Produced by Charles Aldarondo, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team.


                               THE RED AXE

                             By S.R. Crockett

                                   1900


CONTENTS


      I. DUKE CASIMIR RIDES LATE
     II. THE LITTLE PLAYMATE COMES HOME
    III. THE RED AXE OF THE WOLFMARK
     IV. THE PRINCESS HELENE
      V. THE BLOOD-HOUNDS ARE FED
     VI. DUKE CASIMIR'S FAMILIAR
    VII. I BECOME A TRAITOR
   VIII. AT THE BAR OF THE WHITE WOLF
     IX. A HERO CARRIES WATER IN THE SUN
      X. THE LUBBER FIEND
     XI. THE VISION IN THE CRYSTAL
    XII. EYES OF EMERALD
   XIII. CHRISTIAN'S ELSA
    XIV. SIR AMOROUS IS PLEASED WITH HIMSELF
     XV. THE LITTLE PLAYMATE SETTLES ACCOUNTS
    XVI. TWO WOMEN--AND A MAN
   XVII. THE RED AXE IS LEFT ALONE
  XVIII. THE PRIME OF THE MORNING
    XIX. WENDISH WIT
     XX. THE EARTH-DWELLERS OF NO MAN'S LAND
    XXI. I STAND SENTRY
   XXII. HELENE HATES ME
  XXIII. HUGO OF THE BROADAXE
   XXIV. THE SORTIE
    XXV. MINE HOST RUNS HIS LAST RACE
   XXVI. PRINCE JEHU MILLER'S SON
  XXVII. ANOTHER MAN'S COAT
 XXVIII. THE PRINCE'S COMPACT
   XXIX. LOVES ME--LOVES ME NOT
    XXX. INSULT AND CHALLENGE
   XXXI. I FIND A SECOND
  XXXII. THE WOLVES OF THE MARK
 XXXIII. THE FLIGHT OF THE LITTLE PLAYMATE
  XXXIV. THE GOLDEN NECKLACE
   XXXV. THE DECENT SERVITOR
  XXXVI. YSOLINDE'S FAREWELL
 XXXVII. CAPTAIN KARL MILLER'S SON
XXXVIII. THE BLACK RIDERS
  XXXIX. THE FLAG ON THE RED TOWER
     XL. THE TRIAL OF THE WITCH
    XLI. THE GARRET OF THE RED TOWER
   XLII. PRINCESS PLAYMATE
  XLIII. THE TRIAL FOR WITCHCRAFT
   XLIV. SENTENCE OF DEATH
    XLV. THE MESSAGE FROM THE WHITE GATE
   XLVI. A WOMAN SCORNED
  XLVII. THE RED AXE DIES STANDING UP
 XLVIII. HUGO GOTTFRIED, RED AXE OF THE WOLFMARK
   XLIX. THE SERPENT'S STRIFE
      L. THE DUNGEON OF THE WOLFSBERG
     LI. THE NIGHT BEFORE THE MORN
    LII. THE HEADSMAN'S RIGHT
   LIII. THE LUBBER FIEND'S RETURN
    LIV. THE CROWNING OF DUKE OTHO
     LV. THE LADY YSOLINDE SAVES HER SOUL
    LVI. HELENA, PRINCESS OF PLASSENBURG


THE RED AXE


CHAPTER I

DUKE CASIMIR RIDES LATE


Well do I, Hugo Gottfried, remember the night of snow and moonlight when
first they brought the Little Playmate home. I had been sleeping--a
sturdy, well-grown fellow I, ten years or so as to my age--in a stomacher
of blanket and a bed-gown my mother had made me before she died at the
beginning of the cold weather. Suddenly something awoke me out of my
sleep. So, all in the sharp chill of the night, I got out of my bed,
sitting on the edge with my legs dangling, and looked curiously at the
bright streams of moonlight which crossed the wooden floor of my garret.
I thought if only I could swim straight up one of them, as the motes did
in the sunshine, I should be sure to come in time to the place where my
mother was--the place where all the pretty white things came from--the
sunshine, the moonshine, the starshine, and the snow.

And there would be children to play with up there--hundreds of children
like myself, and all close at hand. I should not any longer have to sit
up aloft in the Red Tower with none to speak to me--all alone on the top
of a wall--just because I had a crimson patch sewn on my blue-corded
blouse, on my little white shirt, embroidered in red wool on each of my
warm winter wristlets, and staring out from the front of both my
stockings. It was a pretty enough pattern, too. Yet whenever one of the
children I so much longed to play with down on the paved roadway beneath
our tower caught sight of it he rose instantly out of the dust and hurled
oaths and ill-words at me--aye, and oftentimes other missiles that hurt
even worse--at a little lonely boy who was breaking his heart with loving
him up there on the tower.

"Come down and be killed, foul brood of the Red Axe!" the children cried.
And with that they ran as near as they dared, and spat on the wall of our
house, or at least on the little wooden panel which opened inward in the
great trebly spiked iron door of the Duke's court-yard.

But this night of the first home-coming of the Little Playmate I awoke
crying and fearful in the dead vast of the night, when all the other
children who would not speak to me were asleep. Then pulling on my
comfortable shoes of woollen list (for my father gave me all things to
make me warm, thinking me delicate of body), and drawing the many-patched
coverlet of the bed about me, I clambered up the stone stairway to the
very top of the tower in which I slept. The moon was broad, like one of
the shields in the great hall, whither I went often when the great Duke
was not at home, and when old Hanne would be busy cleaning the pavement
and scrubbing viciously at the armor of the iron knights who stood on
pedestals round about.

"One day I shall be a man-at-arms, too," I said once to Hanne, "and ride
a-foraying with Duke Ironteeth."

But old Hanne only shook her head and answered:

"Ill foraying shalt thou make, little shrimp. Such work as thine is not
done on horseback--keep wide from me, _toadchen_, touch me not!"

For even old Hanne flouted me and would not let me approach her too
closely, all because once I had asked her what my father did to witches,
and if she were a witch that she crossed herself and trembled whenever
she passed him in the court-yard.

Now, having little else to do, I loved to look down from the top of the
tower at all times. But never more so than when there was snow on the
ground, for then the City of Thorn lay apparent beneath me, all spread
out like a painted picture, with its white and red roofs and white houses
bright in the moonlight--so near that it seemed as though I could pat
every child lying asleep in its little bed, and scrape away the snow with
my fingers from every red tile off which the house-fires had not already
melted it.

The town of Thorn was the chief place of arms, and high capital city of
all the Wolfmark. It was a thriving place, too, humming with burghers and
trades and guilds, when our great Duke Casimir would let them alone;
perilous, often also, with pikes and discontents when he swooped from the
tall over-frowning Castle of the Wolfsberg upon their booths and
guilderies--"to scotch the pride of rascaldom," as he told them when they
complained. In these days my father was little at home, his business
keeping him abroad all the day about the castle-yard, at secret
examinations in the Hall of Judgment, or in mysterious vaults in the
deepest parts of the castle, where the walls are eighteen feet thick, and
from which not a groan can penetrate to the outside while the Duke
Casimir's judgment was being done upon the poor bodies and souls of men
and women his prisoners.

In the court-yard, too, the dogs, fierce russet-tan blood-hounds,
ravined for their fearsome food. And in these days there was plenty of
it, too, so that they were yelling and clamoring all day, and most of
the night, for that which it made me sweat to think of. And beneath the
rebellious city cowered and muttered, while the burghers and their
wives shivered in their beds as the howling of Duke Casimir's
blood-hounds came fitfully down the wind, and Duke Casimir's guards
clashed arms under their windows.

So this night I looked down contentedly enough from my perched eyrie on
the top of the Red Tower. It had been snowing a little earlier in the
evening, and the brief blast had swept the sky clean, so that even the
brightest stars seemed sunken and waterlogged in the white floods of
moonlight. Under my hand lay the city. Even the feet of the watch made no
clatter on the pavements. The fresh-fallen snow masked the sound. The
kennels of the blood-hounds were silent, for their dreadful tenants were
abroad that night on the Duke's work.

Yet, sitting up there on the Wolfsberg, it seemed to me that I could
distinguish a muttering as of voices full of hate, like men talking low
on their beds the secret things of evil and treason. I discerned
discontent and rebellion rumbling and brooding over the city that clear,
keen night of early winter.

Then, when after a while I turned from the crowded roofs and looked down
upon the gray, far-spreading plain of the Wolfmark, to the east I saw
that which appeared like winking sparks of light moving among the black
clumps of copse and woodland which fringed the river. These wimpled and
scattered, and presently grew brighter. A long howl, like that of a
lonely wolf on the waste when he calls to his kindred to tell him their
where-abouts, came faintly up to my ears.

A hound gave tongue responsively among the heaped mews and doggeries
beneath the ramparts. Lights shone in windows athwart the city. Red
nightcaps were thrust out of hastily opened casements. The Duke's
standing guard clamored with their spear-butts on the uneven pavements,
crying up and down the streets: "To your kennels, devil's brats, Duke
Casimir comes riding home!"

Then I tell you my small heart beat furiously. For I knew that if I
only kept quiet I should see that which I had never yet seen--the
home-coming of our famous foraying Duke. I had, indeed, seen Duke
Casimir often enough in the castle, or striding across the court-yard
to speak to my father, for whom he had ever a remarkable affection. He
was a tall, swart, black-a-vised man, with a huge hairy mole on his
cheek, and long dog-teeth which showed at the sides of his mouth when
he smiled, almost as pleasantly as those of a she-wolf looking out of
her den at the hunters.

But I had never seen the Duke of all the Wolfmark come riding home ere
daybreak, laden with the plunder of captured castles and the rout of
deforced cities. For at such times my father would carefully lock the
door on me, and confine me to my little sleeping-chamber--from whence I
could see nothing but the square of smooth pavement on which the
children chalked their games, and from which they cried naughtily up at
me, the poor hermit of the Red Tower. But this night my father would be
with the Duke, and I should see all. For high or low there was none in
the empty Red Tower to hinder or forbid.

As I waited, thrilling with expectation, I heard beneath me the
quickening pulse-beat of the town. The watch hurried here and there,
hectoring, threatening, and commanding. But, in spite of all, men
gathered as soon as their backs were turned in the alleys and street
openings. Clusters of heads showed black for a moment in some darksome
entry, cried "U-g-g-hh!" with a hateful sound, and vanished ere the
steel-clad veterans of the Duke's guard could come upon them. It was like
the hide-and-seek which I used to play with Boldo, my blood-hound puppy,
among the dusty waste of the lumber-room over the Hall of Judgment,
before my father took him back to the kennels for biting Christian's
Elsa, a child who lived in the lower Guard opposite to the Red Tower.

But this was a stranger hide-and-seek than mine and Boldo's had been. For
I saw one of the men who cried hatefully to the guard stumble on the
slippery ice; and lo! or ever he had time to cry out or gather himself
up, the men-at-arms were upon him. I saw the glitter of stabbing steel
and heard the sickening sound of blows stricken silently in anger. Then
the soldiers took the man up by head and heels carelessly, jesting as
they went. And I shuddered, for I knew that they were bringing him to the
horrible long sheds by the Red Tower through which the wind whistled. But
in the moonlight the patch which was left on the snow was black, not red.

After this the crooked alleys were kept clearer, and I could see down the
long High Street of Thorn right to the Weiss Thor and the snow-whitened
pinnacles of the Palace, out of which Duke Casimir had for the time being
frightened Bishop Peter. Black stood the Gate Port against the moonlight
and the snow when I first looked at it. A moment after it had opened, and
a hundred lights came crowding through, like sheep through an entry on
their way to the shambles--which doubtless is their Hall of Judgment,
where there waits for them the Red Axe of a lowlier degree.

The lights, I say, came thronging through the gate. For though it was
moonlight, the Duke Casimir loved to come home amid the red flame of
torches, the trail of bituminous reek, and with a dashing train of riders
clattering up to the Wolfsberg behind him, through the streets of Thorn,
lying black and cowed under the shadows of its thousand gables.

So the procession undulated towards me, turbid and tumultuous. First a
reckless pour of riders urging wearied horses, their sides white-flecked
above with blown foam, and dark beneath with rowelled blood. Many of the
horsemen carried marks upon them which showed that all had not been
plunder and pleasuring upon their foray. For there were white napkins,
and napkins that had once been white, tied across many brows. Helmets
swung clanking like iron pipkins from saddle-bows, and men rode wearily
with their arms in slings, drooping haggard faces upon their chests. But
all passed rapidly enough up the steep street, and tumbled with noise and
shouting, helter-skelter into the great court-yard beneath me as I
watched, secure as God in heaven, from my perch on the Red Tower.

Then came the captives, some riding horses bare-backed, or held in place
before black-bearded riders--women mostly these last, with faces
white-set and strange of eye, or all beblubbered with weeping. Then came
a man or two also on horseback, old and reverend. After them a draggled
rabble of lads and half-grown girls, bound together with ropes and kept
at a dog's trot by the pricking spears of the men-at-arms behind, who
thought it a jest to sink a spear point-deep in the flesh of a man's
back--"drawing the claret wine" they called it. For these riders of Duke
Casimir were every one jolly companions, and must have their merry jest.

After the captives had gone past--and sorry I was for them--the
body-guard of Duke Casimir came riding steadily and gallantly, all
gentlemen of the Mark, with their sons and squires, landed men, towered
men, free Junkers, serving the Duke for loyalty and not servitude, though
ever "living by the saddle"--as, indeed, most of the Ritterdom and gentry
of the Mark had done for generations.

Then behind them came Duke Casimir himself. The Eastland blood he had
acquired from his Polish mother showed as he rode gloomily apart,
thoughtful, solitary, behind the squared shoulders of his knights. After
him another squadron of riders in ghastly armor of black-and-white, with
torches in their hand and grinning skulls upon their shields, closed in
the array. The great gate of the Wolfsberg was open now, and, leaving
behind him the hushed and darkened town, the master rode into his castle.
The Wolf was in his lair. But in the streets many a burgher's wife
trembled on her bed, while her goodman peered cautiously over the leads
by the side of a gargoyle, and fancied that already he heard the clamor
of the partisans thundering at his door with the Duke's invitation to
meet him in the Hall of Judgment.


- Take the case of Napoleon's.

The France of the Revolution, and even more the Vorrevolution, would
consist of the opposite type, when Napoleon's has emerged: there
has also spawned him.

And because otherwise Napoleon was heir to a stronger, longer, older
than civilization, which in France in steam and pieces went, he was here
Lord, he was here alone, Lord. The big people are necessary, the time in
which they appear is random, that they almost always have the same
Lord, it's just that they are stronger, that they are older, more that
they have been collected out. Between a genius and his time is a
ratio, such as between strong and weak, even as between old and young:
the time is always relatively much younger, thinner and immaturity,
insecure, childish. - The fact that this man in France today, thinks very
differently (in Germany: but it is nothing), that the theory of the milieu,
a true neurotic theory, sacrosanct and almost scientific and
has fallen to just below the physiologists held belief that " does not
smell good ", this makes a sad thought. - One sees it also in England no
different, but that no man will grieve. The Englishman has only two paths
open to deal with the genius, and "big man" abzufinden: either in the
democratic nature's Buckle or religiously in the way Carlyle's. - The
danger, in times of great people and is situated, is properly except
the exhaustion every kind, sterility follows them on foot. The big man is
an end to the big time, the Renaissance, for example, is an end. The
genius - in work, in That - is necessarily a spendthrift: ausgiebt
that it is its size ...

The instinct of self-preservation as it is displayed, and the pressure
of the outlet übergewaltige forces forbids him any such care and
caution. It is called the "sacrifice"; it boasts his "heroism" is its
indifference to the own well-being, his devotion to an idea, a
great cause, a fatherland: All misunderstandings ...

He passes out, he passes on, it consumes itself, it protects is not - with
Fatalität, verhängnissvoll, involuntarily, like a river breaking its
banks about is involuntarily. But because such explosive owes much, you
have a lot of them on the other hand, a gift, for example, a kind of
higher morality ... That is the nature of human gratitude: it
misunderstands its 45th .- The Wohlthäter criminals and what it is used.
- The type of criminals, this is the type of powerful people under adverse
conditions, a strong man-made disease. He lacks the wilderness, a freer
and more dangerous nature and form of existence in which everything
in the weapon and defense of the powerful human instinct is to law.

His virtues are from the company in Bann done his liveliest shoots, which
he brought has soon overgrown with low depressive affects, with the
suspicion, the fear of dishonor. But this is almost the Recept of physiological
degeneration. The Who, what he does best, preferably Thäter, must secretly
thun, with long excitement, caution, shrewdness, is anemic, and because
he only danger, persecution, Verhängniss of her reaps his instincts,
his upside is also feeling against these instincts - he feels it
is inevitable.

The company is our tame, mediocre, blended society in which a man
pristine, the mountains from her or from the adventures of the sea comes
to criminals necessarily degenerate. Or almost necessarily, because it
giebt cases where such a person is proving stronger than the society:
the Corse Napoleon is the most famous case. For the problem that
exists here is the certificate Dostoiewsky's irrelevant -
Dostoiewsky's, the only psychologist attached said that I had
something to learn: he belongs to the most fortunate circumstances
of my life, more even than the discovery of Stendhal's.

This profound human being, of the ten time was right, the Germans superficial
low estimate, the Siberian convict, in the middle of which he long lived,
all serious criminals, for which there is no return to society were perceived
very differently than he himself expected - roughly the length of the
best, toughest and werthvollsten wood, which is based on Russian
soil at all growing.

We generalize the case of the criminal: we are thinking natures, which,
for some reason, lacks public support, who know that they are not considered
wohlthätig than perceived to be useful, - Tschandala that feeling that
you're not the same as applies but as expelled, unworthy, contaminating.
All these natures have the color of the Underground on thoughts
and actions, to them, than at Any such Bleicher, whose existence
rests the daylight.

But almost all forms of existence that we now reward, have formerly
under these grave air half-lived: the scientific nature, the artist,
the genius, the free spirit, the actor, the merchant, the great
explorers ...

As long as the priest was the highest type, it was worth every way
entwerthet man ...

The time is coming - I promise that - where he served as the lowest shall
be regarded as our Tschandala than verlogenste as the indecent man kind
...

I direct attention to how even now, under the mildest of the regiment
Sitte, depending on the earth, at least in Europe, has prevailed,
each set apart, every long, too long under any unusual, obscure
life form type that brings close the completion of the criminals.

All innovators of the spirit have a time Fahle and fatalistic character
of Tschandala on the forehead: not because they felt it would be,
but because they themselves feel the terrible gap that sets it apart
from all conventional and parties in honor separates.

Almost every genius knows, as one of its developments, "catilinarische
existence", a hate, revenge and rebellion against all feeling, which
is already what is no longer ...

Catiline - the pre-existence-form of each Caesar. - 46 Here is the view
freely. - It can level the soul, when a philosopher is silent, it
can be love if it contradicts itself, it is a courtesy of the
detection of potential which lies.

They have not said fineness: il est indigne of grands coeurs de
répandre le trouble, qu'ils ressentent: only you have to add that
prior to the most unworthy not to be afraid of size also the soul
can be.

A woman that loves, sacrifices his honor, a recognition, which "loves",
perhaps sacrifice his humanity, a God who loved, became Jew ... 47 The
beauty of no coincidence. - The beauty of a race or family, their
Anmuth and goodness in all gestures will be prepared: it is equal
to the genius, the final result of the work of accumulirten sexes.

You have the good tastes have brought great sacrifice, you have many
things done to him, have left many things - the seventeenth-century
France is admirably in both - you have in him a Princip of choice for
society, city, clothes, had sex satisfaction , one has the beauty
of advantages, the habit of the opinion that the inertia have
preferred.

Oberster guide: it's also against himself is not "let go". - The
good things are on the expensive Maassen: and always applies the
law, that whoever has it, is another than he who buys it.

Everything Good is inheritance: what is not inherited is imperfect, is
beginning ...

In Athens at the time were Cicero's, of about expressing his surprise,
the men and young women are far superior in beauty: but what kind of
work and effort in the service of beauty had the male sex daselbst
for centuries on its own demands!

- One should in fact on the methodology here is not assault: a mere
breeding of feelings and thoughts is almost zero (- here lies the
great misunderstanding of the German education, which is wholly
illusory): one must first of the body talk.

The strict maintenance of major and selected sign a liability, only to live
with people who do not "let go", simply perfect, to much and to be elected
in two or three genders is all internalized. It is vital on the Loos of
people and humanity, that the cultivation on the right is the beginning
- not the "soul" (as the fateful superstition of the priests and
half-priests was): the right place is the body which gesture, the
diet, physiology, and the rest follows ...

The Greeks remain the first-culture event of the story - they knew
that they, that what North; the Christenthum, which despised the
body, has been the biggest misfortune of mankind. - 48 Progress in
my sense. - Even I speak of "return to nature", although it is
actually not a Zurückgehn, but a Hinaufkommen is - up in the high,
free, even terrible nature and naturalness, such that with big plays
tasks, may play ..

To put it in parables to say that Napoleon was a piece of "return
to nature", as I understand it (for example, in rebus tacticis, even
more, as the military know the Strategic). - But Rousseau - while
actually wanted back?

Rousseau, the first modern man, idealist and Canaille in one person, the
moral of "dignity" Nöthiger had to lend his aspect bearable; sick
before unbridled vanity and unbridled self-contempt.

Again, this monstrosity, which is at the threshold of a new era has
stored, wanted to "return to nature" - where, again asked Rousseau
wanted back?

- I hate Rousseau in the revolution: it is the world-historical expression
for this duplication of idealist and Canaille. The bloody farce with
which this revolution took place, their "immorality", does little
to me: what I hate is their Rousseau'sche morality - the so-called
"truths" of the revolution, with whom she still works and everything
flat and mediocre to be persuaded.

The doctrine of equality ...

But there is no giebt poisonous poison: for it appears by the justice
himself preached, while the end of justice is ...

"The same match, the unequals unequal - that would be the real question
of justice: and what follows, unequal never equal it." - That it to the
doctrine of equality so look around and certainly went to a bloody,
this "modern idea" par excellence, a kind of glory and fire
certificate, so that the Revolution as a spectacle, the noblest
spirits has seduced.

The last is no reason to respect them more. - I see only one, which
they felt, how it felt to be with disgust - 49th ... Goethe Goethe - not
a German event, but a European, a great experiment, the eighteenth
century to be overcome by a return to nature, by a Hinaufkommen the
naturalness of the Renaissance, a form of self-overcoming of the
pages of this century. - He wore his strongest instincts in themselves:
the Gefühlsamkeit the natural Idolatry, the anti-historical, the
idealistic, the revolutionaries, and Unreal (- the latter is only
one form of the Unreal).

He took the history, natural science, antiquity, insgleichen Spinoza
Hülfe, especially the practical Thätigkeit; he is surrounded with a
loud closed horizons, it is not triggered by life, he turned in.

He was not despondent and took so much as possible to keep that in
itself.

What he wanted was totality; he fought against the dismantling of reason,
sensuality, emotion, desire (- deterrent in scholasticism by Kant
preached the antipodes Goethe's), he disciplinirte to wholeness,
he created the ...

Goethe was, in the middle of an unreal-minded era, a convinced realist:
he said yes to everything he had used herein, - he had no greater
experience than that ens realissimum called Napoleon.

Goethe concipirte a strong, highly educated, skillful in all
corporeality itself in the bridle off, before himself reverent people
of the whole scope and Reichthum the naturalness must dare to
indulge, strong enough for this freedom is the human tolerance ,
not from weakness but from strength, because it is the thing the
average nature would go to reason, nor to its advantages need to
know, the people, for there is nothing more giebt forbidden, unless
the weakness, they are hot now vice or virtue ...

Such a spirit is freigewordner with a joyful and trusting fatalism
in the middle of the universe, in the belief that only the individuals
identified is that on the whole everything is redeemed and affirmed
- he no longer be denied ...

But such a belief is the highest of all possible faiths: I have him in
the name of Dionysos baptized. - 50 You could say that in a sense,
the nineteenth century, all also desired, which Goethe as a person
desired: a universality in understand, approve in an up-views can
come from any, a verwegnen realism, a reverence for all Thatsächlichen.

How is it possible that the total result is not Goethe, but a chaos, a
nihilistic sigh, a non-know-where-from-still-a, an instinct of
fatigue, which in this praxi continually pushes to eighteenth-century
fall back ?

(- For example, as a romantic feeling, as altruism and hyper-sentimentality,
as Femininismus in taste, as Socialismus in politics.) Is not the
nineteenth century, especially in its exits, just increased brutalized
eighteenth century, ie a Decadence century?

So that Goethe not only for Germany but for Europe as a whole merely an
incident, a fine would have been free? - But one misunderstands great
people when they are from the perspective of a poor view of public
utility.

That one can not benefit from them ziehn know, this is, of course,
perhaps to the size ... 51 Goethe is the last German, before I did
reverence: he would have felt three things which I feel - and we understand
about the "Cross" ...

They often ask me what I actually write German: nirgendswo I would
read worse than in the Fatherland.

But who knows least, if I just want today to be read?

- Things in which free time trying their teeth, the form of the
substance in a small endeavor to immortality - and I have never
been modest enough, less of me to ask.

The aphorism, the sentence in which I, as the first master among Germans
am, the forms of "eternity", my ambition is, in ten sentences to say
what everyone Andre says in a book - what everyone Andre in a beech
does not say ...

I have of humanity's deepest Book, which it owns, my Zarathustra:
I give her about the recently independent. - What I owe the Old 1.

Finally, a word about the world, access to which I sought, to which I
may be a new access had found - the old world.

My taste, the contrast of a tolerant taste may be, is also far from lock,
stock and barrel so to say, says he does not like yes, no or rather,
on allerliebsten nothing ...

This is true of all cultures, this is true of books, - it is also
true of places and landscapes.

Basically it is a very small number of ancient books, in my life
mitzählen the famous are not among them.

My sense of style, for the epigram as a style awoke almost immediately
in contact with Sallust. I have the astonishment of my revered teacher
Corssen not forget, as his worst Latins the first type had Censur - I
was finished with one blow. Urged to strictly, with as much substance as
possible on the reason for a cold malice against the "good word",
even the "good feeling" - it errieth me. It is up to in my Zarathustra
into a very serious ambition after the Roman style, according to
the "Aere perennius" in the style for me to recognize. - Ergieng
no different to me at the first contact with Horace.

Until today I have at any poet the same artistic delight had me
from the outset a Horace Ode gave.

In some languages is that what this is achieved, not even wanting to. This
mosaic of words where each word as sound, as place, as a concept,
to the right and left and on the whole thing out his ausströmt
force, this minimum in size and number of characters, this is
achieved in the maximum energy of the characters - the All is roman,
and, if one wants to believe me, noble par excellence.

All the rest of poetry is to do something about Popular, - a mere feeling
loquaciousness ... 2 The Greeks I owe not a relative strong impressions,
and to bring it out even to say they can not be what the Romans are.
One learns not from the Greeks - their nature is too strange, it
is also unnecessary to demand that a "classical" effect.

Who would have ever learned to write a Greek!

Who would have ever learned without the Romans ... You do not turn
me Plato On. The ratio of Plato, I am a skeptic and depth has always
been professional, except in the admiration of artists Plato which
scholars traditionally is einzustimmen.

Recently, I have here the judges taste raffinirtesten under the old self
on my page. Plato raises, it seems to me, all forms of style confused,
he is a first decadent style: he has something similar on his conscience,
as the cynik the Satura Menippea invented.

The fact that the Platonic dialogue, this horribly complacent and
childish kind of dialectic, could act as a stimulus, when you never have
read good French - Fontenelle, for example. Plato is boring. - Finally,
I distrust in Plato in depth: I find him so astray by all the basic
instincts of the Hellenes, so vermoralisirt as pre-existent-Christian -
he already has the word "good" as a top term - that I get from the
whole phenomenon of Plato rather the harsh word "higher dizziness or
if one's preferred listening idealism - as some would like to use another.
It has paid Theuermann that Athens at the Egyptians went to school (or
- with the Jews in Egypt ?...) In the big Verhängniss the Christenthums
Plato is the "ideal" ambiguity called Fascination and the nobler natures
of Alterthums made it possible, misszuverstehn itself and the
bridge to enter the "Cross" led ...

And how much Plato is still in the concept of "church", in construction,
system, practice of the Church!

- My relaxation, my preference, my cure from all Platonism was Thucydides,
at any time. Thucydides and, perhaps, the prince's Machiavell myself
are most utilized by the unconditional will to nothingness, and an
effect in the sense of reality sehn - not in the "reason", even less in
the "morality" ... From the miserable Schön Greeks in the dye's ideal,
that of "classical educated" youth as a reward for his high school dressage
in life davonträgt, kurirt Nothing so thoroughly as Thucydides. You have
it line by line and round his mind so much as read his words: it
giebt so after a few thoughts of thinkers.

In it, the sophists-cultivation, to say the Cultur-realists, on her perfect
expression: these inestimable movement amid the allerwärts just
gonna break loose morals and ideal swindle the Socratic schools.

The Greek philosophy as the Decadence of the Greek instinct; Thucydides
as the great sum, the last revelation of that strong, strict, hard
Thatsächlichkeit the older Hellenes was the instincts.

The Muth reality differs from the last such natures as Thucydides
and Plato: Plato is a coward in front of reality - consequently he
flees into the ideal; Thucydides, has been in force, hence it also
keeps things in the violence ... 3 In the Greek "beautiful souls,"
"golden middle" and other perfections auszuwittern, some of them
the rest in size, the ideal ethos, the high Einfalt admire - prior
to this "high uniformity," a niaiserie anglaise last but not least,
I was protected by the psychologist, whom I had in me.

I saw their strongest instinct, the will to power, I saw them tremble before
the unrestrained violence of this train - I saw all of its
institutions grow from Maass protection rules to protect themselves
against each other against their inner explosives to make sure.

The tremendous stress on the inside then unloaded in terrible and ruthless
hostility outside the municipalities mangled themselves, so that
the citizens of each city before himself would rest.

They had it Nöthiger, to be strong: the danger was near - they lurked
everywhere.

The beautifully smooth corporeality of daring realism and Immoralismus of
the Hellenes is, is a North, not a "natural" have been. He followed
until he was not there from the beginning.

And with festivals and arts is also wanted nothing Andres as top feel on
top show: there are means to glorify himself, possibly in front of you
fear to do ...

The Greeks on German philosophers manner in accordance with their
determination, such as the Socratic Biedermännerei schools outcrops
about using what was basically Hellenic! ... The philosophers are the
decadent Griechenthums of the counter-movement against the old, to make
the taste (- agonal against instinct, against the polis, Werth against
race, against the authority of coming).

The Socratic virtues were preached because they the Greeks lost
were: irritable, fearful, fickle, allesammt comedians, they had a
few too many reasons to preach morality to leave.

Not that it would have helped little: but big words and attitudes are
decadent as good ... 4 I was the first person to understanding of the
older, still rich and even overflowing Hellenic instinct, that wonderful
phenomenon seriously, the the name of Dionysus bears: it is only explicable
from a surfeit of power. Who goes after the Greeks, like that of its
deepest Kenner Cultur, now lives, as Jacob Burckhardt in Basel, who knew
immediately that this was something done: Burckhardt said of his
"Culture of the Greeks" a suitable section of the said phenomenon.

To the contrary, so you can see the almost-amusing instinct Armuth of
German philologists, when they near the Dionysian come. The
famous Lobeck especially, of the venerable security of a worm dried
up between books in the world of mysterious states are persuaded
hineinkroch and so scientifically that he until the Disgust recklessly
and was childish, - Lobeck has all expense of learning to understand
where, actually had it with all these Curiositäten Nothing to it.

In That the priests want to Theilhabern in such orgies some not Werthlose
mitgetheilt, for example, that the pleasure of wine suggest that man
may live in fruits that the plants in spring aufblühn, wither in the
autumn. What those so strange Reichthum of rites, symbols and myths
orgiastic origin, from which the ancient world is literally overgrown,
then Lobeck to him a cause, nor a degree to be witty.

"The Greeks, he says Aglaophamus I, 672, they had nothing else to thun,
then laughed, jumped, raced around them, or because the person may also
feel like, so she sat down, wept and wailed.

Others came later and searched but any reason for the striking nature,
and as a result of those practices to explain those countless festival
legends and myths. On the other side believed, that possirliche drift,
which is now once at the feast was held, also necessarily belong to the
celebration ceremony and considered it as an indispensable portion of the
service stated. " - This is contemptuous chatter, you will have a Lobeck
not for a moment seriously.
And she illustrated the extremely vacant surprise into which her
appearance paralyzed the infantry of her native city.

"I am glad my father left me here till he should come back. Do you know,
I like your house. There are so many interesting things about it. That
funny axe over there is nice. It looks as if it could cut things. Has it
ever cut anything? It is so nicely polished. How do you keep it so, and
can I help you?"

"I had just finished polishing and oiling it before I fell asleep,"
answered Gottfried Gottfried. "You see, little Princess, I had very many
things to cut with it last night."

"What a pity the Prince had not time to wait and see you! He is so very
fond of going out into the forest with the woodman. Once he took me to
see the tallest tree in all our woods cut down with just such an axe as
that--only it was not red. Have you ever seen a high tree cut down?"

"I have cut down some pretty tall ones myself!" said the Duke's Justicer,
smiling quietly at her.

"Ah, but not as tall as my father! It is beautiful to see him strip
his doublet and lay to. They say there is not a woodman like him in
all our land."

Helene looked at my father, whose arms were folded in his great cloak.

"But you have fine strong arms too," she said. "You look as if you could
cut things. Did my father ever see you cut down tall trees?"

"Yes," said Gottfried Gottfried, slowly, "once!"

"And did he say that you cut well?" the little maid went on, with a
strange, wilful persistence in her idea.

"He neither said that I did well nor yet that I did ill," replied
Gottfried Gottfried.

"Ah!" said Helene, "that was just like the Prince. He was afraid of
flattering you and making you unfit for your work. But if he said
nothing, depend upon it he was pleased."

"Thank you, Princess," said my father. "I think he was well enough
pleased."

Just then there came a noise that I knew--a sound which chilled every
bone in my body.

It was the clear ring of a steady footstep upon the pavement without. It
came heavily and slowly across the yard. The outer hasp of our door
clicked. The door opened, and the footstep began to ascend the stair.

There was but one man in the world who dared make so free with the
Red Tower and its occupant. Our visitor was without doubt the Duke
Casimir himself.

For the first time I saw my father manifestly disconcerted. The little
maid's life might be worth no more than a torn ballad if Duke Casimir
happened to be in evil humor or had repented him of his mercy of the
past night. I saw the Red Axe look aimlessly about for a hiding-place.
There was a niche round which certain cloaks and coverlets were hung.

"Come in here," he said, abruptly.

"Why should I hide, whoever comes?" asked the Little Playmate,
indignantly.

"It is the Duke Casimir," whispered my father, hurriedly, stirred as I
had never seen him. "Come hither quickly!"

But the little maid struck an attitude, and tapped the floor with her
foot.

"I will not," she said. "What is the Duke Casimir to me that am a
Princess? If he is good, I will give him my hand to kiss!"

But at this point I rushed from the ladder-head, and, taking her in my
arms, I sped up the turret stairs with her out upon the leads, my hand
over her mouth all the time.

And as I ran I could hear the Duke trampling upward not twenty steps in
the rear. I opened the trap-door and went out into the clear morning
sunshine. And only the turn of the stair prevented Casimir from seeing me
go up the narrow turret corkscrew with my little white burden.

Then I heard voices beneath, and I knew, as if I had seen it, that my
father stood up straight at the salute. Presently the voices lowered, and
I knew also that the Duke Casimir was unbending as he did to none else in
his realm save to the Hereditary Justicer of the Wolfmark.

But I had my hands full with the little Princess. I dared not go down
the stairs. I dared not for a moment take my palm off her mouth. For as
like as not she would call out for the Duke Casimir to come and deliver
her from my cruelty. So I stuck to my post, even though I knew that I
angered her.

The morning was warm for a winter's day in Thorn, and I pulled open my
brown blanket and wrapped her coseyly within it, chilling myself to the
bone as I did so.

It seemed ages before the Duke strode down the stair again, and took his
way across the yard, with my father, in black, after him. For so he was
used to dress when he went to the Hall of Judgment, to be present and
assist at the discovery of crime by means of the Minor and Extreme
Questions.

Then, so soon as they were fairly gone, I took my hand from the mouth of
the Little Playmate, and carried her down-stairs; which as soon as I had
done, she slapped my face soundly.

"I will never, never speak to you any more so long as I live, rude
boy--common street brat!" she said, biting her under-lip in ineffectual,
petulant anger. "Listen, never as long as I live! So do not think it!
Upstart, so to treat a lady and a Princess!"

And with that she burst into tears.


CHAPTER V

THE BLOOD-HOUNDS ARE FED


But the Princess-Playmate spoke to me again. I was even permitted to call
her Helene. Me she addressed uniformly as "Hugo Gottfried." But neither
her name nor mine interfered with our plays, which were wholly happy and
undisturbed by quarrelling--at least, so long as I did exactly what she
wished me to do.

On these terms life was made easy for me from that day forth. No longer
did I wistfully watch the children of the street from the lonely window
of the Red Tower. They might spit all day on the harled masonry at the
foot of the wall for aught I cared. I no longer desired their society.
Had I not that of a real Princess, and if my companion was inclined to be
a little wayward and domineering--why, was not that the very birthright
of all Princesses?

Helene and I had great choice of plays within the walls of the solemn
castle. So long as we kept to the outer yard and did not intrude upon the
Duke's side of the enclosure, we were free to come and go at our
pleasure. For even Casimir himself was soon well accustomed to see us run
about like puppies, slapping and tumbling, and minded us no more than the
sparrows that pecked in the litter of the stable-yard. Indeed, I think he
had forgotten all about the strange home-coming of the Little Playmate.

The kennels of the blood-hounds especially were full of fascination for
us. That fatal deep-mouthed clamoring at morn and even drew us like a
magnet. Helene, in particular, never tired of gazing between the chinks
of the fence of cloven pine-wood at the great russet-colored beasts with
their flashing white teeth, over which the heavy dewlaps fell. And when
my father, with his red livery upon him and a loaded whip in his hand,
once a day opened the tall, narrow door and went within, we thought him
brave as a god. Then the way the fierce beasts shrank cowering from him,
the fashion in which they crouched on their bellies and heaved their
shoulders up without taking their hind quarters off the ground, equally
delighted and surprised us.

"Your father is almost as great a man as _my_ father," said the Princess
Helene, who, however, was rapidly forgetting her dignity. Indeed,
already it had become little more than a fairy-tale to her. And that was
perhaps as well.

One day, when I was about thirteen, or a little older, my father came out
with a new short mantle in his hand, red like his own.

"Come hither, Hugo Gottfried!" he said, for he had learned the trick of
the name from Helene.

I went to him tardy-foot, greatly wondering.

"Here, chick," he said, in his kindly fashion, "it is time you were
beginning to learn your duties. Come with me to-day into the kennels of
the blood-hounds."

But I hung back, shifting the new mantle uneasily on my shoulders, yet
not daring to throw it off.

"I do not want to go, father," said I, edging away in the direction of
the Playmate.

"What, lad!" he cried, slapping me on the shoulder; "they will not hurt
thee with that cloak on. They know their masters better--as their fathers
and mothers knew our fathers. Have we, the Gottfrieds, been the
Hereditary Justicers of the Wolfmark for six hundred years to be afraid
now of the blood-hounds that are kept to hunt the Duke's enemies and to
feed on the Duke's carrion?"

"It is not that I am afraid of the dogs, father," I made answer to him.
"I would quickly enough go among them, if only you would let me go
without this scarlet cloak."

My father laughed heartily and loudly--that is, for him. A quick ear
might have heard him quite three feet away.

"Silly one!" he exclaimed, "do you not know that even the Duke Casimir
dares not set foot in the kennels--no, nor I myself, save in the garb
they know and fear--as indeed do all men in this state."

Still I hung my head down and scraped the gravel with my foot.

"Haste thee," said my father, roughly. "Once it is permitted to a man to
be afraid; to fear twice, and fear the same thing, is to be a coward. And
no Gottfried ever yet was a coward. Let not my Hugo be the first."

Then I took courage and spoke to him.

"I do not wish to be executioner," I said; "I would rather ride
a-soldiering far away, and be in the drive of battle and the front of
danger. Let me be a soldier and a man-at-arms, my father. I am sure I
could become a war-captain and a great man!"

Gottfried Gottfried stared blankly at me, and his blue-black hair rose in
a crest--not with anger, of which he never showed any to me, but in sheer
astonishment. He continued to rub it with his hand, as if in this manner
he might possibly reach an explanation of the mystery.

"Not wish to be Hereditary Executioner? Why, are you not a Gottfried, the
only son of a Gottfried, the only son of his father, who also was a
Gottfried and Hereditary Red Axe of the Wolfmark? Why, lad, before there
was a Duke at all in the Wolfsberg, before he and his folk came out of
the land of the Poles to fight with the Ritterdom of the North, we, the
Gottfrieds of Thorn, wore the sign of the Red Axe and dwelt apart from
all the men of the Mark. For fourteen generations have we worn it!"

"But," said I, sadly, "the very children on the street hate me and spit
on me as I pass; the maids will not so much as speak to me. They scyrry
in-doors and slam the wicket in my face. Think you that is pleasant? And
when as a lad of older years I set out to woo, whither shall I betake me?
For what door is open to a Gottfried, to him who carries the sign of
the Red Axe?"

"Ah, lad," said my father, patiently, "life comes and life goes. It is
nigh on to forty years since even thus my father held out the curt mantle
for me. And even so said I. Time eats up all things but the hearts of
men. And they abide ever the same--yearning for that which they cannot
have, but nevertheless accepting with a sharp relish the things which are
decreed to them; even as do the Duke's carrion-eaters yonder, which,
by-the-way, are waiting most impatiently for their meal while we thus
stand arguing."

He was about to move away when his eye fell on Helene. At sight of her he
seemed to remember my last words, about going a-wooing.

He considered a moment and then said: "You are young yet to think of
courting, Hugo, but have no fear either for the love-making or the
wedding. Sweet maids a many shall surely come hither. Why, there is one
growing up yonder that will prove as fair as any. I tell you the
Gottfrieds have married great ladies in their time--dames and dainty
damsels. They have had princesses to be their sweethearts ere now. Come,
then, lad--no more words, but follow me."

And for that time I went after him obediently enough, but all the same my
heart was rebellious within me. And I determined that if I had to ran to
the ends of the earth, I should never be Hereditary Executioner nor yet
handle the broadaxe on the bared necks of my fellow-men.

We went in among the dogs--great, lank, cowering, tooth-slavering brutes.
I followed my father till we came to the feeding-troughs. Then he bade me
to stand where I was till he should set their meat in order. So he
vanished behind, the barriers. Then, when he had prepared the beasts'
horrid victual, though I saw not what, he opened the narrow gate, and the
howling, clambering throng broke helter-skelter for the troughs, cracking
and crunching the thigh-bones, tearing at the flesh, and growling at one
another till the air rang with the ear-piercing din.

And outside the little Helene flung herself frantically at the split
pines of the enclosure, crying, bitterly, "Take off that hateful mantle,
Hugo Gottfried! I hate it--I hate it! Take it off!"

My father stood behind the dogs, whose arched and bristling backs I could
just manage to see over the fence of wooden spars, and dealt the whip
judicially among them--at once as a warning to encroachers and a
punishment for greed.

Then all unharmed we went out, and as soon as my father had gone up to
his garret-room in the tower, I tore the red cloak off and trampled it in
the dirt of the yard. Then I went and hid it in a little blind window of
the tower opposite the foot of the ladder which led to my father's room.
For, because of my father's anger, I dared not destroy the badge of shame
altogether, as both Helene and I wished to do.

Day by day the Little Playmate (for so I was now allowed to call her--the
Princesshood being mostly forgotten) grew great and tall, her fair,
almost lint-white hair darkening swiftly to coppery gold with the glint
of ripe wheat upon it.

Old Hanne followed her about with eyes at once wistful and doubtful.
Sometimes she shook her head sadly. And I wondered if ever the poor old
stumbling crone, wizened like a two-year-old winter apple, had been as
light and gay a thing as our dainty rose-leaf girl.

One day I was laboring at the art of learning to write, along with Friar
Laurence--a scrawny, ill-favored monk, who, for good deeds or misdeeds, I
know not which, was warded in a cell opening out of the lower or garden
court of the Wolfsberg, when I heard Helene dance down the stairs to the
kitchen of the Red Tower.

"Hannchen!" she cried, merrily, "come and teach me that trick of the
broidering needle. I never can do it but I prick myself. Nevertheless,
I can fashion the Red Axe almost as clearly as the pattern, and far
finer to see."

Friar Laurence raised his great, softly solid face, blue about the jowls
and padded beneath the eyes with craft.

"That little maid is over much with old Hanne," he said, as if he
meditated to himself; "she will teach her other prickings than the
needle-play. The witch-pricking at the images of wax was what brought her
here. Aye, and had it not been for your father wanting a house-keeper,
the Holy Office would have burned the hag, and sent her to hell, flaming
like a torch of pine knots."

Now this was the first I had heard with exactness of the matter of old
Hanne's having been a witch. And now that I knew it for certain I began
to imagine all sorts of unholy things about the poor wretch, and grew
greatly jealous of Helene being so often in the kitchen. Whereas before I
had thought nothing at all about the matter, save that Hannchen was a
dull, pleasant, muttering, shuffling-footed old woman, who could make
rare good cream-cakes when you got her in the humor.

And that was not often.


CHAPTER VI

DUKE CASIMIR'S FAMILIAR


I mind it was some tale of years later that I got my first glimpse below
the surface of things in the town of Thorn, and especially in the castle
of the Wolfsberg.

Duke Casimir continued to move, as of yore, in cavalcade through
his subject city. The burghers bowed as obsequiously as ever when
they could not avoid meeting him. There were the old lordly
perquisitions--thunderings at iron-studded doors, battering-rams set
between posts, and the clouds of dust flying from the driven lintels, the
screams of maids, the crying of women, a stray corpse or two flung on to
the street, and then the procession as before, arms and legs, with a
mercenary soldier between each pair, fore and aft. All this was repeated
and repeated, till the dull monotony of tyranny began to wear through the
long Teutonic patience to the under-quick of Wendish madness.

It chanced that one night I could not sleep. It was no matter of maids
that kept me awake, though by this time I was sixteen or seventeen and
greatly grown--running, it is true, mostly to knees and elbows, but
nevertheless long of limb and stark of bone, needing only the muscle laid
on in lumps to be as strong as any.

I had begun to steal out at nights too--not on any ill errand, but that I
might have the company of those about my own age--'prentice lads and the
wilder sons of burghers, who had no objection to my parentage, and
thought it rather a fine thing to be hand-in-glove with the son of the
Red Axe of Thorn. And there we played single-stick, smite-jacket,
skittles, bowls--aye, and drank deep of the city ale--the very thinnest
brew that was ever passed by a bribed and muzzy ale-taster. All this was
mightily pleasant to me. For so soon as they knew that I had determined
to be a soldier, and not the Red Axe of the Wolfmark, they complimented
me greatly on my spirit.

Well, as I lay awake and waited for the chance to slip down a rope from
my bedroom window, whose foot should I hear on the turret stairs but that
of my Lord Duke Casimir! My very heart quailed within me. For the fear of
him sat heavy on every man and woman in the land. And as for the
children--why, as far as the Baltic shore and the land of the last
Ritters, mothers frightened their bairns with the Black Duke of the
Wolfsberg and his Red Axe.

So now the Duke and the Red Axe were to be in conference--as indeed had
happened nearly every day and night since I could remember. So that
people called my father the Duke's Private Devil, his Familiar Spirit,
his Evil Genius. But I knew other of it--and this night, of all nights in
the year, I was to know better still.

It was a summer midnight--not like the one I told of when the story
began, white with snow and glittering with the keen polish of frost. But
a soft, still night, drowsy yet sleepless, with an itch of thunder
tingling in the air--and, indeed, already the pulsing, uncertain glow of
sheet-lightning coming and going at long intervals along the south.

I crouched and nestled in the hole in the wall where I had long ago
hidden the hated red cloak, pulling my knees up uncomfortably to my chin.
And great lumps of bone they were, knotted as if a smith had made them in
the rough with a welding hammer and had forgotten to reduce them with the
file afterwards. At that time I was thoroughly ashamed of my knees.

But no matter for them now. Duke Casimir passed in and shut the door.

"Gottfried," I heard him say, "I am a dead man!"

These words from the great Duke Casimir startled me, and though I knew
well enough that Michael Texel, the Burgomeister's son, was waiting for
me by the corner of the Jew's Port, I decided that, as I might never hear
Duke Casimir declare his secretest soul again, I should even bide where I
was; and that was in the crevice of the wall among the old clothes, which
gave off such a faint, musty, sleepy smell I could scarcely keep awake.

But the Duke's next words effectually roused me.

"A dead man!" repeated Casimir. "I have not a friend in all the realm of
the Mark besides yourself. And there is none of all that take my bounty
or eat my bread that is sorry for me. See here," he said, querulously,
"twice have I been stricken at to-day--once a tile fell from a roof and
dinted the crown of my helmet, and the second time a young man struck at
my breast with a dagger."

"Did he wound you, Duke Casimir?" asked my father, speaking for the first
time, but in a strangely easy and equal voice, not with the distance and
deference which he showed to his lord in public.

"Nay, Gottfried," replied Duke Casimir; "but he bruised my shirt of mail
into my breast."

And I heard plainly enough the clinking of the rings of chain-armor as
the Duke showed his hurt to my father. Presently I heard his voice again.

"And the Bishop has touched me in a new place," he said. "He declares
that he will lay his interdict upon me and my people--ill enough to hold
in hand as they are even now. When that is done they will rise in
rebellion. My very men-at-arms and knights I cannot depend upon--only
upon you and the Black Riders."

"In the matter of the Bishop's interdict, or in other matters, do you
mean that you can trust my counsel, Duke Casimir?" asked my father.

"'Tis in the burial of the dead that the shoe will pinch first with these
burghers of Thorn and among our soldiers at the Wolfsberg. For mass,
indeed, they care not a dove's dropping--but that the corpse should be
carried to a dog's grave, that they cannot away with. Red Axe, I tell you
we shall have the State of the Mark about our ears in the slipping of a
hound's leash--and as for me, I know not what I shall do."

"Listen, and I will counsel you, Duke Casimir! Care you not though the
east wind brought Bishop Peters whirling over the Mark, as many as the
January snowflakes that come to us from Muscovy. I, Gottfried Gottfried,
tell you what to do. In every parish of the Mark there is a parson. Every
clerk of them hath a Presbytery, in which he dwells with those that are
abiding with him. Bid you the soldiers that are obedient to you to carry
all the corpses of the dead to the Presbytery, and leave them there under
guard. Then let us see whether or no the parsons will give them burial.
What think you of the counsel, Duke Casimir?"

I could hear the Duke rise and pace across the floor to where my
father sat on his bed. And by the silence I knew that the two men were
shaking hands.

"Red Axe," said the Duke, much moved, "of a truth you are a great
man--none like you in the Dukedom. These beard-wagging, chain-jingling
gentry I have small notion of. And would you but accept it, I would give
you to-morrow the collar of gold which befits the Chancellor of the Mark.
None deserves to wear it so well as thou."

My father laughed a low scornful laugh.

"Because I bid you teach the parsons their own religion, am I to be made
Chancellor of the Mark? A great gray wolf out of the forest were as
suitable a Chancellor of the Mark as Gottfried Gottfried, the fourteenth
hereditary Red Axe of Thorn!"

Then I heard him reach over his bed for something. I stole out of the
hole in the wall and crouched down till my eyes rested at the great
latchet hole through which the tang of leather to lift the bolt
ordinarily goes. I could see my father sitting on his bed and the Red
Axe lying across his knees. He took it in hand, dangling it like an
infant. He caressed it as he spoke, and ran his thumb lovingly along the
shining edge.

"Ah," he said, "my beauty, 'tis you and not your master they should make
High Chancellor of this realm. 'Tis you that have held the power of life
and death, and laid the spirit of rebellion any time these twenty years.
And well indeed wouldst thou look with a red robe about thee" (here he
reached for a cloak that swung from the rafters contiguous to his hand);
"a noble presence wouldst thou be in a tun-bellied robe and a collar of
shining gold! Bravely, great State's Chancellor of the Wolfmark, wouldst
thou then lead the processions and preside at the diets of justice--as
indeed thou dost mostly as it is."

And he made the Red Axe bow like a puppet in his hands as he swept the
cloak of red out behind the handle.

I could see Duke Casimir now. He had drawn up a stool and sat opposite my
father, with his elbows on his knees. One hand was stroking the side of
his head, and his haughtiness had all fallen from him like a forgotten
overmantle. He looked another man from the cruel, relentless Prince who
had ridden so sternly at the head of his men-at-arms and looked so
callously on at the death of men and the yet more bitter agony of women.

He stared at the floor, absorbed in his own gloomy thoughts, while my
father regarded him with his eyes as though he had been a lad in his
'prenticing who needed encouragement to persevere.

"Duke," he said, steadily, "you have borne the rule many years, and I
have stood behind you. Have I ever advised you wrong? Make peace with the
young man, your nephew; he is now only the Count von Reuss, but one day
he will be Duke Otho. And if he be rightly guided he may be a brave ruler
yet. But if not, and he gather in his hand the various seditions and
confused turbulences in the Dukedom, why, a worse thing may befall."

"You advise me," said the Duke, lifting his head and looking at his
Justicer, "to recall my nephew and risk all that threatened us ere he
fled to the Prince of Plassenburg--Karl, the Miller's Son."

Gottfried Gottfried continued to run his thumb to and fro along the edge
of the Red Axe.

"Even so," he replied, without raising his head; "give him the command of
the Black Riders of the Guard, who, as it is, adore him. Let him try his
'prentice hand on Bamberg and Reichenan. And if he offend, why, then it
will be time to apply for further advice to this chancellor in the Red
Robe, whose face so shines with wisdom."

The Duke rose.

"Well, on your head be it!" he said.

"Nay," said my father, "I but advise, it is for you to decide, my Lord.
If Duke Casimir sees a better way of it, why, then the words of his
servant are but as the tunes that the east wind whistles through the
key-hole."

And at the mention of key-holes I imagined that I saw my father's eyes
rest on the latchet crevice. So I bethought me that it was time for me to
be retiring to bed. To my room, therefore, I went straightway, tiptoeing
on the points of my hose. And with ears cocked I heard my father attend
the Duke to the door, and on across the yard, lest any night-wandering
traitor should take a fancy to make a hole in the back of Duke Casimir of
the Wolfmark.

Presently came my father in again, and I heard his foot climb steadily
up to my room. The door opened, and never was I in so deep a sleep. He
turned down the coverlet to see that I was undressed--but that I had seen
to. Whereat he departed fully satisfied.

Nevertheless this interview left me with a great feeling of insecurity.
If the Duke Casimir were thus full of fears, doubts, misgivings, whence
came the fierce and cruel courage with which he dominated his liege
burghers and harassed the country round about for a hundred leagues? The
cunning of a weak man? Say, rather, the contrivance of a strong servant
to hide the frailty of a weak master.

Then first it was that I saw that my father Gottfried Gottfried was the
true ruler of the Wolfmark, and that the man who had carried me on his
shoulders and played with the little Helene was--at least, so long as
Duke Casimir lived--the greatest man in all the Dukedom and first
Councillor of State, whether the matter were one of peasant or Kaiser.


CHAPTER VII

I BECOME A TRAITOR


Much was I flattered, and very naturally so, when Michael Texel made so
manifest a work about pleasing me and having me for his comrade. For
though I was now nineteen, he was five years my senior, and his father,
being both Burgomeister and Chief Brewer, was of the first consideration
in the town of Thorn.

"Hugo," said Michael Texel, "there be many lads in the city that are
well, and well enough, but none of them please me like you. It may be
that your keeping so greatly to yourself has made you passing thoughtful
for your age. And whereas these street-corner scraps of rascaldom care
for nothing but the pleasing of pothouse Gretchens, we that are men think
of the concerns of the State, and make us ready for the great things that
shall one day come to pass in Thorn and the Wolfmark."

I nodded my head as if I knew all about it. But, indeed, in my heart, I
too preferred the way of the other lads--as the favor of maids, and other
lighter matters. But since one so great and distinguished as Michael
Texel declared that such things were but useless gauds, unworthy of
thought, I considered that I had better keep my tongue tight-reined as to
my own desires.

I shall now tell the manner of my introduction to the famous society of
the White Wolf.

From the very first time that ever I saw him, Michael Texel had much to
say about a certain wondrous league of the young men of Thorn and the
Wolfmark. He told me how that every man with a heart in him was
enrolled among them: the sons of the rich and great, like himself; the
sons of the folk of no account (like myself, doubtless); the soldiers of
the Duke--nay, it was whispered very low in my ear, that even the young
Count Otho von Reuss, the Duke's nephew and heir, had taken high rank in
the society.

I asked Michael what were the declared objects of the association.

"See," he cried, grandly, with a wave of his hand, "this city of Thorn.
It lies there under the Wolfsberg. With a few cannon like Paul Grete, the
Margrave's treasure, Duke Casimir could lay our houses in ruins.
Therefore, in the meantime, let us not break out against Duke Casimir.
But one day there will come an end to the tyrant Duke. Tiles will not
always break harmless on helmets, nor the point of steel always be turned
aside by links of chain-armor. As I say, an hour will come for Casimir as
for other malefactors. And then--why, there is the young Otho. And he has
sworn the vows of the White Wolf to make of Thorn a free city with a
Stadtholder--one with power and justice, chosen freely by the people, as
in other Baltic cities. Is there a man of us that has not been
plundered?--a maid that does not go in fear of her honor while Casimir
reigns? Shall this thing be? Not surely forever. The White Wolf shall see
to it. She has many children, and they are all dear to her. Let the Duke
Casimir take his count with that!"

So, as was natural, I became after that more than ever eager to join this
most notable league of the White Wolf.

One night I had sat late talking to the Little Playmate, who was now
growing a great maid and a beautiful--none like her, so far as I could
see, in all the city of Thorn--a circumstance which made me more ready to
be of Michael Texel's opinion with regard to any flighty and
irresponsible courting of the maids of the town. For had I not the
fairest and the best of them all at home close by me? On this night of
which I speak it was almost bedtime when I heard a knocking at the outer
port, and went to open the wicket.

And lo! there was Michael Texel come all the way to the Red Tower for me,
though it was by his own trysting that we had agreed to meet at the inn
of the White Swan. Nevertheless there he was. So there was nothing for it
but to bring him in. I presented him in form to the Little Playmate, who
had quite forgotten her Princess-ship by this time in the sweetness of
being our house-angel of the Red Tower.

I saw in a moment that Michael Texel was astonished at Helene's beauty,
as indeed well he might be. But she, on her part, hardly so much as
glanced at him, though he was a tall and well-grown youth enough, with
nothing remarkable about him save pale hair of much the same color as his
complexion, and a cut on one side of his upper lip which in certain
lights gave him a sneering expression.

But to Helene he spoke very carefully and courteously, asking her whether
she ever went to any of the Guild entertainments for which Thorn was
famous. And upon her saying no--that my father did not think it fitting,
Michael said, "I was sure of it; none could forget if once they had seen.
For never in the history of Thorn has so fair a face graced Burgher dance
or Guild festival, nor yet has a foot so light been shaken on the green
in any of our summer outgoings."

Now this was well enough said in its way, but only what I myself had
often thought. Not that the Playmate took any notice of his words or was
in any degree elated, but kept her head bent demurely on her work all the
time Michael Texel was with us.

Presently there entered to us, thus sitting, Gottfried Gottfried, who
had come striding gloomily across the yard in his black suit from the
Hall of Judgment, and at his entrance Michael instantly became awkward,
nervous, and constrained.

"I must be going," he said; "the Burgomeister bade me be early within
doors to-night."

"Is the noble Burgomeister lodging at the White Swan?" asked my father,
with his usual simple directness, as he went hither and thither ordering
his utensils without heeding the visitor.

"No," said Michael, startled out of his equanimity; "he bides in his own
house by the Rath-house--the sign is that of the Three Golden Tuns."

The Red Axe nodded.

"I had forgotten," he said, indifferently, and stood by the great
polished platter-frame over the sideboard, dropping oil on the screws of
a certain cunning instrument which he was wont to use in the elucidation
of the Greater Question.

I could see Michael turning yellow and green, but whether with anger or
fear I could not tell. Helene, who loved not the tools of my father, had,
upon his entrance, promptly gathered up her white cobwebs and lace, and
had betaken herself to her own room.

"I must be bidding you a fortunate evening and wishing you an untroubled
sleep," said Michael, with studious politeness, rising to his feet. Yet
he did not immediately move away, but stood awkwardly fingering his hat,
as if he wished to ask a question and dared not.

"It is indeed a fine place for a sound sleep," said my father, nodding
his head grimly, "this same upper courtyard of the Wolfsberg. There are
few that have once slept here, my noble young sir, who have ever again
complained of wakefulness."

At this moment the hounds in the kennels raised their fierce clamor. And,
without waiting for another word, Michael Texel took himself off down
the stairs of the Red Tower. Nor did he regain his composure till I had
opened the wicket and ushered him out upon the street.

Literärische tie connections and acquaintances, and to pursue literary
purposes to maintain an exchange of letters, Wieland felt no needs. He had
so many plans literärische again have to give up, because he lacked
time to export them. The circle of foreign friends, with whom he was in
correspondence, was therefore very limited.

He wrote to a few, usually only to those who initially had turned
to him.

In a closer Freundschaftsverhältniß he was with Gleim and Jacobi underfoot.
"Both," Wieland wrote to Sophie la Roche, "belong to the small
number of fine spirits, with a beautiful soul, to the envy and
jealousy Seyn capable, and you know that those are the white ravens.
" To the poet Wieland Jacobi felt through a kind of mental kinship
drawn.

He used him to call _eigenen_ poet, and heartily rejoiced over his
friend's quest in poetry the ideal of perfection to reach the soul before
it floated.

In a Jacobi's letters, which Wieland in March 1771 in honor Breitenstein,
where he was staying, a visit made, a description of Wieland's
outer and his personality in that period of his life preserved.

"At first sight," said Jacobi, "seemed to me his physiognomy is not very
significant. His eyes are small and somewhat dull, and the quantity of
leaf scars, making his skin is covered, to the fact that its trains will
not stand out enough to be duly reward them. Nothing less is expressed in
all its Gebehrde the fire of his spirit and character of his
Empfindungsart to an extraordinary and peculiar way. If he is emotionally
strong, geräth his whole body, but an almost imperceptible manner, on the
move his muscles stretch out, and his eyes are brighter and shinier,
his mouth open slightly, and so he remains in a kind of paralysis, until
he pronounced some words, or his friend's hand has pressed.

This expression is in person Wieland so fine that it should remain
mostly unnoticed, but I am more than once until the mark has been
shaken.

Wieland goes quickly from one accusation to another over, because he
in an instant a number of thoughts or a situation through and felt
has.

For him, it would Zeitverderbniß Seyn if he stayed in longer. "
Among the properties, according to Jacobi's expression, "Wieland's
character is so charming and worthy of veneration made as his
genius," Jacobi expected "the natural, beautiful and masculine
sensibility of his soul, and the unspoiled goodness of his heart,
his warm, selfless, to envy and jealousy made him incapable of true
love and beauty; ungeheuchelte his incredible modesty and sincerity.

"So deep, as his friendship with federal Jacobi, was not one of the
acquaintances who Wieland during a stay in Leipzig was held, where
he briefly Time travel was. Among the few to whom he was closer, was
among whites and Garve, Gellert both friends, he is no longer among the
living was held, but at no small annoyances had to hear how young
and old are tried, the celebrated poet by matt Lobgesänge to glorify.
"It was," said Wieland, "an appalling Gesing, Geplärre, Geseufze and
howl." White's love nature is attracted to him. He was among those who
said Wieland, with whom he wants to spend his life.

In Garve he admired the philosopher and penetrating thinker. Only in
small, he came into contact with Clodius, who through his talent for
pleasing interessirte deal more than its Geistesvorzüge. A certain kinship
chained him Oeser, he's in the Winkler Gallery paintings had learned.
In one of his former letters Wieland confessed: "Of all the men, whose
acquaintance I made in Leipzig, Oeser is the one I am most after my heart
had found a beautiful soul, a great heart, with all the simplicity
of the outside, which is to find the true genius.

"Crucial to Wieland's later life was a trip to Weimar. there adequate
follow through acquaintance with the Count of Gorizia, he had the good
fortune, widow of the Duchess Anna Amalia of Saxony-Weimar, to be presented.
His personality and witty entertainment, combined with the literary
reputation that preceded him, made the best impression on those who
befriended the princess muses.

The Duchess Amalia gave him the education of the post and then Erbprinzen
Duke Carl August. Not long before, Wieland prospects had to Vienna
to be called.

His hope was based on the fairly widespread rumor: Joseph II intended
the finest minds of the German nation in the capital of the German
Empire to unite. The hope to come to Vienna, gave Wieland also as yet
not quite, as he is already a post of Instructors of Erbprinzen of
Saxony-Weimar, had adopted. "I stand now," he wrote, "In my forty
years, and when the goddess Fortuna something for me thun wants,
it's high time; = = en attendant, and because of this I Humoristin
not dare, I try, = ne ipse mihi desim =.

"The new situation in which he was joined in the expressions, it is not
entirely überhoben of concern for the future, actual or, to put his family.
Their situation was uncertain, since Wieland's death, went out with the
life pension of 600 Thlrn.

Which he had been assured when he is no longer the instructor would
Erbprinzen Seyn. Until that time, with the 3rd September 1775 approaches,
he moved into one years salary in 1000 Thlrn. His income had only a few
years. Through his job as Prince educators, however, he saw an early
favorite cherished desire fulfilled, which he had arrived during his stay
in Switzerland had often employs vividly.

The court life was Wieland, at least initially, to offer no taste,
although the shackles, which he landed , according to his own
confessions, nothing less than oppressively were.

Something had good news for him but by the close of a great mind
and heart princess whose versatile educated taste for everything
big and beautiful, for science and art in the broadest sense of the
word, was receptive.

So they gathered in a circle like feingebildeter men and women living
with him, and every talent was in their vicinity so as to develop
free, because humanity and condescension to the main lines of its
nature were, giving them a general love and reverence acquired.

At his princely pupil, the Erbprinzen Carl August, by the excellent
facilities and gracious properties to the most legitimate hopes,
Wieland was soon replaced by a bond of mutual affection always
intimately linked.

The interest for the true, good and beauty in his royal pupil to
awaken and nurture was the main task, which Wieland when he was
teaching.

A certificate of which he gave when he was the birthday of the Erbprinzen
by an allegorical poetry in dramatic form, "the choice of Hercules"
titled, celebrated.

Wieland's interest in the dramatic poetry was nurtured by the actor
Seylersche society whose members, including the famous Eckhof
belonged, then gave performances in Weimar, where no stage was
standing.

Neither the dramas, even the comic operettas, mostly French designs
reproduced, Wieland could actually be interesting taste, if he does
not even those Producten Werth virtually all agreements.

A greater effect, he hoped by the previously neglected entirely serious
opera. Already in Erfurt had him this subject and it employs some explanations
abgenöthigt, his friend since he Jacobi Cantate and especially its "Elysium"
was read.

The applause, which a then sealed by Wieland singspiel "Aurora" was,
as it, by Swiss componirt , was listed, ermuthigte him to a larger
musical and dramatic trials.

Thus Wieland's opera "Alceste," in May 1773 for the first time was listed.
At the same time he wrote his "Essay on the Musical." Wieland's joy at the
favorable reception of his "Alceste" was propagated as the famous Gluck
him calling for him a similar opera to write.

Wieland was distracted by the dramatic poetry of a literary undertaking,
his time and almost excessive forces claiming are threatened. The
very popular = = Mercure de France gave him the idea to publish a similar
magazine, which under the title: "The German Mercury" should appear.
Wieland hoped by this journal a widespread effect on his contemporaries,
and promised to them for the future an economically secure position.
After his plane should be in that magazine in poems and prose essays of
general interest with a critical overview of the latest phenomena in the
field of philosophy, history, politics, literature and beautiful
alternate. The record review should especially be used biased and
unfair Urtheile writings about the benefits to be corrected.

Wieland began the publication of the "German Mercury," but soon came
to unforeseen obstacles. "Without the Beihülfe of our best writers I can
not," he confessed in one of his letters. Among the staff that he used
for his journal wanted to win, were Lessing, Herder, Garve, Möser others
are too busy with literary work, to inform him of an uninterrupted
Theilnahme on "German Merkur reassure them. Other writers, it will be
useful could, he knew too little, he knew of several difficult,
where they lived, or what position they claimed.

Among his close friends and acquaintances he had the staff to choose
for his journal, which he, incidentally, as it not only the issue
but also the publisher took over, and soon extended by a Correspondenz
and manifold errors with paper merchants, printers and unspeakable
Corrector annoyances prepared.

His friends Jacobi Wieland confessed: "He was already tired of Mercury,
even before he started." Among the concerns of management, for it certainly
lacked in talent, freed him Bertuch, the post Legationsrath and owners
in industry-Comptoirs, Weimar, which was the acquisition of the book
dedicated to him and with Rath and hülfreich That stood to the
side .

Wieland's boldest expectations exceeded the number of subscribers soon
after the announcement of the "German Mercury."

An edition of 2000 copies was quickly sold out, regardless of the
internal equipment of the first book out was very poor.

Except Wieland and Jacobi had no writers of recognized Werth
delivered a contribution. God, people, Möser others had signed
anonymous.

But it was less the lack of famous names, as in the "German Merkur's
criticism, which soon became a holy night light on those magazine
threw so much promise was announced.

In a passionate reaction had taken Seyn Wieland as he developed into a
rigorous art judges raised. But he hardly knew the fate that he is through
his Urtheile it all at once Partheien and spoil yourself with those would
disintegrate, for which he gave his most faithful friends.

Some errors gerieth Wieland by the sharpness of his criticism of the poets
Halberstädter with Gleim, Jacobi, Michaelis uA Göttinger The poetic
Blumenlese to which he himself contributions, he had a rigor
beurtheilt by which the publisher Boie both, as the staff felt very
violated.

There were citizens who Hölty, Voß, Miller, Count Stolberg including
the talented young men, the Göttingen poets Bunde, who then formed,
belonged. Wieland away completely respect that association, as a rebuke
to the bard poetry, and the bold Dithyrambenton met, the Göttingen poets
were in a translation of the ancient Greek tragedian choirs angestimmt
had. Through such efforts Wieland said, would be the German poetry
soon all sound well and all truth, regularity, and elegance Anmuth
lose. Regarding the Göttinger poet said: "They seem to have made the
saying of Democritus, that race should be a poet, by their example
to justify, but the poetic Wuthe but should, dächt 'I do not even
close to those limits , in the dark cellar leads. " Through such
statements, and by its failure to bard poetry, both by the Göttingen
hochverehrten singer Messiade met Wieland had those young men so
irritated that she, as the poet at the Confederation July 2, 1773
birthday Klopstock, Wieland's "Strange narratives "sacrificed to
the flames.

The poets of Frankfurt, in a way other than the Göttinger, according to a
National Poetry strove, at the Shakspeare them as a model was, Wieland
was a review of" Götz von Berlichingen 'decay which, if Nor does he
even came, but a place in the "German Mercury" was found.

The tense proportion in which he thus made was to Goethe, his excellent and
versatile talent soon afterwards by the "Werther suffering," the tragedy
"Clavigo" including best writings, was further increased by the German of
Wieland Mercury released "Letters on the singspiel Alceste. " The
authors of these letters Goethe chose the objects of his humor in
Aristophanes then sealed his posse: "Gods, Heroes and Wieland."

Instead it provoked, to the Parthei of Goethe's opponents to beat the
sittenverderbliche and dangerous tendency of "suffering Werther highlight
searched, Wieland recommended in the" German Mercury "the script directed
against him" all lovers of Pasquin manner as a masterpiece of sophisticated
jokes and satire, made all sorts of positions carefully _den_ auserwähle,
from which the object should appear wrong, and then warmly
funny about doing that the thing was so wrong. " It did not stop
there Wieland.

A previously promised Vertheidigung of "Götz von Berlichingen" he held back
and not let them soon afterwards in the "German Merkur print.

In recognition of the equitable Goethe's, which he characterized
by a very detailed determination of the aforementioned drama shown
had remained in Wieland same.

With regard to the "suffering of Werther" vertheidigte in his criticism
of that novel, the author of the accusation, the suicide of the spoken
word to have. Wieland those novel called "the soul's painting of an inner
struggle, as it could only _der_ design, the creator of Hamlet and Othello
studirt have." So again Wieland had reconciled with Goethe, one of his
most dangerous opponent to be threatened. But the attacks of those who
Klopstock bard poetry praising, he is not precluded, as a joke occasionally
attached Fair. In this way, Wieland looked over all his opponents a decent
position to argue. The errors into which he and his friends Halberstädter
with Gleim and Jacobi, Gerath had been balanced, as Gleim the hand of
reconciliation offered. He used to travel to Weimar, where the disturbed
Freundschaftsverhältniß was completely restored. Even with a friend
Gleim, with Heinse, Wieland was disintegrated. He reconciled with him but
when he Heinsen novel "Laidion" read, and was quite charmed by the
beautiful, adventurous monster, "as he called that works.

For
had I not come without dishonor through a new and remarkable experience,
and even defied the Mystery of the White Wolf, at perhaps more risk to
myself than at the time I had imagined. For, as I found afterwards, there
were those among the company at the Swan that night of sterner mould and
more serious make than Michael Texel.

But, at all events, home to the Red Tower I strode, whistling, and in a
very cocksure humor.

The little Helene was going about her house duties silently and distantly
when I came down from my turret room on the forenoon of the morrow. She
did not come forward to be kissed, as had been her wont every morning
ever since I carried her, a little forlorn maid, up to mine own bed that
chill winter's night.

"A good-morrow, Little Playmate!" I bade her, gayly. For my heart was
singing a good tune, well pleased with itself and willing to be at amity
with every one else--counting indeed, as is the wont of brisk hearts, a
gloomy face little less than a personal insult.

But the maid did not answer, neither indeed did she seem to have heard
me.

"I bade you fair good-morning, Helene," said I, again, stopping in my
walk across to my breakfast platter.

But still she was silent, casting sand upon the tiled floor and sweeping
it up with great vigor, all her fair body swaying and yielding to the
grace, of movement at every stroke. Strange, it seemed she was now just
about the age when I developed those nodosities of knee and elbow which
troubled me so sore, but yet there was nothing of the kind about her,
only delicate slimness and featly rounded grace.

I went over to her, and would have set my palm affectionately on her
shoulder. But she escaped, just as a bird does when you try to put your
hand upon it. It does not seem to fly off. It simply is not there when
your hand reaches the place.

"Let be," she said, looking upon me haughtily. "By what right do you seek
to touch me, sir?"

"Sweetheart," said I, following her, and much astonished, "because I have
always done it and you never objected before."

"When I was a child, and when you loved me as a child, it was well. But
now, when I am neither a child nor yet do you love me, I would have you
cease to treat me as you have done."

"You are indeed no longer a child, but the fairest of sweet maids," I
made answer. "I will do nothing you do not wish me to do. For, hearken to
me, Helene, my heart is bound up in you, as indeed you know. But as to
the second word of accusation--that I do not love you anymore--"

"You do not--you cannot!" she interrupted, "or you would not go out with
Michael Texel all night to drinking-places, and worse, keeping your
father and those that _do_ love awake, hurting their hearts here" (she
put her hand on her side), "and all for what--that you may drink and
revel and run into danger with your true friends?"

"Sweetheart," I began--penitently.

The Little Playmate made a gesture of infinite impatience.

"Do not call me that," she said; "you have no right. I am not your
sweetheart. You have no heart at all to love any one with, or you would
not behave as you have done lately. You are naught but a silly, selfish
boy, that cares for nothing but his own applause and thinks that he has
nothing to do but to come home when his high mightiness is ready and find
us all on our knees before him, saying: 'Put your foot, great sir, on our
necks--so shall we be happy and honored.'"

Now this was so perilously near the truth that I was mightily incensed,
and I felt that I did well to be angry.

"Girl," I said, grandly, "you do not know what you say. I have been
abroad all night on the service of the State, and I have discovered a
most dangerous conspiracy at the peril of my life!"

For I thought it was as well to put the best face on the matter; and,
besides, I have never been able, all the days of me, to hide my light
under a bushel, as the clerks prate about.

But I was not yet done with my adventuring of this eventful day. And in
spite of my father setting me, like a misbehaving bairn, to the drudgery
of the water-carrying, there was more in life for me that day than merely
hauling upon a handle. For that is a thing which galls an aspiring youth
worse than any other labor, being so terribly monotonous.

As for me, I did not take kindly to it at all--not even though I could
see mine own image deep in the pails of water as they came up brimming
and cool out of the fern-grown dripping darkness of the well. Aye, and
though the image given back to me was (I say it only of that time) a
likely enough picture of a lad with short, crisped locks that curled
whenever they were wet, cheeks like apples, and skin that hath always
been a trouble to me. For I thought it unmanly and like a girl's. And
that same skin of mine is, perhaps, the reason why all my days I never
could abide your buttermilk-and-roses girls, having a supply about me
enough to serve a dozen, and therefore thinking but little of their
stock-in-trade.

Now in the Wolfmark this is the common kind of beauty--not that beauty of
any kind is over-common. For our maids--especially those of the
country--look too much as if they had been made out of wooden pillows
such as laborers use to lay their heads on of nights--one large bolster
set on the top of two other little ones, and all three well wadded with
ticking and feathers. But I hope no one will go back to the Wolfmark and
tell the maids that Hugo Gottfried said this of them, or of a surety my
left ear will tingle with the running of their tongues if there be any
truth in the old saw.

It was three of the clock and the sun was very fierce on the dusty,
unslaked yard of the Wolfsberg, glaring down upon us like the mouth of a
wide smelter's oven. Fat Fritz, the porter, in his arm-chair of a cell,
had well-nigh dissolved into lard and running out at his own door. The
Playmate's window was open, and I caught the waft of a fan to and fro. I
judged therefore that my lady knew well that I was working out there in
the heat, and was glad of it--being a spiteful pretty minx.

Then I began to wonder who had given her that fan, for it was not like my
father to do it, and she knew no other. "Ah!" I said to myself, as a
thought struck me, "could it possibly be Michael Texel? He is rich, and
Helene may have known him before. The cunning, dark-eyed little
vagabond--to take my introduction yester-even as if she had never set
eyes on the fellow before, while here it is as clear as daylight that he
had all the time been giving her presents--fans and such like."

So I raved within me, half because I believed it, and half because she
seemed so comfortable up there, with her feet on a stool and a cool jug
of curds at her elbow, while I sweated and labored in the sun.

Very decidedly it must be Texel; devil fly up with him and scratch him
among the gargoyles of the minster!

The fan wagged on. It looked distractingly cool within. But then my
father--filial obedience was very distinctly a duty, and, also, Gottfried
Gottfried, though kind, was a man not to be disobeyed--even at nineteen,
and after defying the White Wolf.

It was, as I have said, about three by the sundial on the wall, the arch
of which cast a shadow like jet on the scale, that my father came out
through the narrow door from the Judgment Hall, opening it with his own
key. For he had the right of entrance and outgoing of every door in the
palace, not even excepting the bedchamber of Duke Casimir.

"Hugo," he said, "come hither, lad. I did not mean to keep you so long at
work in the sun. You must have filled all the cisterns in the place by
this time!"

I thanked him sincerely, but did not pursue the subject. For, indeed, I
had not worked quite so hard as in his haste my father had supposed from
my appearance.

"Go within," he said; "don quickly your saint's-day dress, and betake
yourself down to the house of Master Gerard von Sturm, the city
chamberlain, and tell him all that he asks of you--readily and truly."

"But, father," said I, "suppose he asks of me that which might condemn
one who has trusted me, what am I to say?"

"Tut, boy," said my father, impatiently, "you mean young Michael Texel.
Fear not for him. He was the first to inform. He was at Master von
Sturm's by eight this morning, elbowing half a dozen others, all burning
and shining lights of the famous Society of the White Wolf. You are the
hero of the day down there, it seems."

"And lo! here I am flouted by a stripling girl, and set to carry water
by the hour in the broiling sun!" I said within myself. I possessed,
however, though without doubt a manifest hero, far too much of the
unheroic quality of discretion to say this aloud to my father.

"I thank you, sir," I said, respectfully. "I will go at once and put on
my finest coat and my shoes of silk."

My father smiled.

"You need not be particular as to the silk shoes. 'Tis to see Master von
Sturm, not to court pretty Mistress Ysolinde, that I asked you to visit
the lawyer's house by the Weiss Thor."

But I was not sorry to be able to proclaim my destination as loud as I
dared without causing suspicion.

"Hanne," I cried down the turret stairs, "I pray you bring me the silken
shoes with the ribbon bows of silk. I am going down to Master von Sturm's
house; also my gold chain and bonnet of blue velvet with the golden
feather in it which I won at the last arrow-shooting."

I saw the fluttering of the fan falter and stop. A light foot went
pattering up the stairway and a door slammed in the tower.

Then I laughed, like the vain, silly boy I was.

"Mistress Helene," I said to myself, "you will find that poor Hugo, whom
you flouted and despised, can yet pay his debts!"

So I put on the fine clothes which I wore on festal days and sallied
forth. Now, though the lower orders still hated my father and all that
came out of the Red Tower, or indeed, for the matter of that, out of the
Wolfsberg, with hardly concealed malice--yet there were many in the city,
specially among those of the upper classes, who began to think well of my
determination to try another way of life than that to which I had been
born. For I made no secret of the matter to Michael Texel and such of his
comrades as joined us in our gatherings.

Indeed, now, when I come to think of it, it seems to me that my father
was the only person of my acquaintance who did not suspect that I was
resolved never to wear either the black robe of Inquisition or the
crimson of Final Judgment.

Yet it wore round to within two years, and indeed rather less, of the
time for my initiation into the mysteries of the Red Axe, and still I
remained at home, an idle boy, playing at single-stick and fence with
the men-at-arms, drinking beer in the evening with my bosom cronies, and
in the well-grounded opinion of all honest people, likely enough to come
to no good.

But I, Hugo Gottfried, had my eyes and my books open, and knew that I was
but biding my time.

So it came about that I carried no taint of the dread associations of the
Wolfsberg about me as I went down the bustling street to the Weiss Thor
to call on that learned and well-reputed lawyer, Master Gerard von Sturm.
So great was the fame of Master Gerard that he was often called in to
settle the mercantile quarrels of the burghers among themselves, and was
even chosen as arbiter between those of other towns. For, though
accounted severe, he had universally the name of a just and wise man, who
would not rob the litigants of all their valuables and then decide in
favor of neither, as was too often the way with the "justice" of the
great nobles.

As for Duke Casimir of the Wolfmark, no man or woman went near him on any
plea whatsoever, save that of asking mercy or favor. And unless my father
chanced to be at hand, mostly they asked in vain. For, as I now knew, he
had to keep up the common bruit of himself throughout the country as a
cruel, fearless, and implacable tyrant. Besides, his fears were so
constant and so great, perhaps also so well-founded, that often he dared
not be merciful.


CHAPTER X

THE LUBBER FIEND


At five of the clock I lifted the great wolf's-head knocker of shining
brass which frowned above the door of Master Gerard von Sturm in the port
of the Weiss Thor. Hardly had I let it fall again when a small wicket,
apparently about two feet above my head, opened, and a huge round head
with enormous ears at either side peeped out. So vast was the head and so
small the aperture that one of the lateral wings of the chubby face
caught on the sill, and the owner brought it away successfully with a
jerk and a perfectly good-humored and audible "flip."

"Who are you, and what do you want?" said a wide-gashed mouth, which,
with a squat, flattened-out nose and two merry little twinkling eyes,
completed this wonderful apparition.

The words were in themselves somewhat rude. On paper I observe that they
have an appearance almost truculent. But spoken as the thing framed in
the window-sill said them, they were equal to a song of Brudershaft and
an episcopal benediction rolled in one.

"I am Hugo Gottfried of the Red Tower, come to see Master Gerard," I
replied. "Who may you be that asks so boldly?"

"I'll give you a stalk of rhubarb to suck if you can guess," was the
unexpected answer.

As I had never in my life seen anything in the least like the prodigy, it
was clearly impossible for me to earn the tart succulence of the summer
vegetable on such easy terms.

"I should say," I replied, "if the guess savor not of insolence, that one
might be forgiven for mistaking you for the Fool of the Family!"

The grin expanded till it wellnigh circumnavigated the vast head. It
seemed first of all to make straight for the ears on either side. Then,
quite suddenly, finding these obstacles insurmountable, it dodged
underneath them, and the scared observer could almost imagine its two
ends meeting with a click somewhere in the wilderness at the back of that
unseen hemisphere of hairy thatch.

"Pinked in the white, first time--no trial shot!" cried the object in the
doorway, cheerily. "I am the Fool of the Family. But not the only one!"

At this moment something happened behind--what, I could not make out
for some time. The head abruptly disappeared. There was a noise as of
floor-rugs being vigorously beaten, the door opened, and the most
extraordinary figure was shot out into the street. The head which I had
seen certainly came first, but so lengthy a body followed that it seemed
a vain thing to expect legs in addition. Yet, finally, two appeared, each
of which would have made a decent body of itself, and went whirling
across the street till the whole monstrosity came violently into
collision with the walls of the house opposite, which seemed to rock to
its very foundations under the assault.

A decent serving-man, in a semi-doctorial livery of black cloth, with a
large white collar laid far over his shoulders, and cuffs of the same
upon his wrists, stood in the open doorway and smiled apologetically at
the visitor. He was rather red in the face and panted with his exertions.

"I ask your pardon, young sir," he said. "That fool, Jan Lubber Fiend,
will ever be at his tricks. 'Tis my young mistress that encourages him,
more is the pity! For poor serving-men are held responsible for his
knavish on-goings. of life, so you can tolerate almost any how? - The man
strives for happiness is not only the Englishman does 13 das man has
created the woman - but what? From a rib of his god - of his "ideal"
... 14 What? you're looking for? you want to tenfold, verhundertfachen?
you are looking for trailers? - Search zeroes. 15 posthumous people -
I, for example - are understood worse than timely, but a better one.

Strenger: we are never understood - and therefore our authority under
... 16 women. - "The truth? Oh you know the truth! Is it not an attack
on all our pudeurs?"

- 17 This is an artist, as I love artists, modest in his needs: he really
wants only two, his Brod and his art - panem et Circe ... 18 Who his
will not to put things to know submit at least one of spirit still
into it: that is, he believes that a will had already been (Princip
of "faith") 19.

How? wähltet their virtue and the upper breast and see both the advantages
Scheel after the safety? - But with virtue if only "advantages" ... (an
anti-Semite to the Hausthür.) 20. The perfect woman celebrates literature,
as a small sin: to attempt to pass on to umblickend whether someone noticed
it and that someone noticed ... 21 Getting in noisy situations go where
you have no apparent virtues may, where a lot more like the tightrope
walker on his rope, either stands or falls - or away ... 22 "evil
people have no songs." - How is it that the Russians have songs? 23
German spirit ": since the age of eighteen a contradiction in
adjecto 24.

So, that after the early days, you will be cancer. The historian looks
backward; finally he also believes backward. 25 Satisfaction protect
themselves against cold. Did ever a woman that is well dressed knew a
cold? - I put the case that it was barely dressed. 26 I am suspicious
of all classifications and go out of their way. The will to system
is a lack of righteousness. 27 Man holds woman for deep - why? because you
never when it comes to the bottom.

The woman is not even flat. 28 If the woman has masculine virtues, it
is to run away, and if there are no male virtues, so it can run them.
29 "How much was formerly the conscience to bite? Which it had good teeth
- And now? what is missing? " - Question of a dentist. 30 Man
celebrates Übereilung rarely alone. In the first Übereilung always does
too much. Precisely, it is usually a matter of committing a second -
and now it does too little ... 31 The worm writhes took it.

So it is wise. He thus reduces the likelihood of the new force to be.
In the language of morality: Demuth. - 32 It giebt a hatred of lies and
adjustment from an irritable Ehrbegriff it an equally giebt cowardice
from hate, to the extent that the lie, by a divine commandment, is
prohibited.

Too cowardly to lie 33rd ... How much belongs to the fortunes! The
sound a bagpipes. - Without music life would be Irrthum.
As I made my way humbly enough across to Master Gerard's room his
daughter did not speak to me, only followed me boldly, and yet, as it
seemed to me, somewhat wistfully too, with her sea-green eyes. And as the
door was closing upon me I saw her beckon the serving-man.

But I, on the inner side of the door, and with Master Gerard von Sturm
before me, had enough to do to tell my tale and answer his questions
without troubling my head about green-eyed girls.

Master Gerard was as remarkable looking to the full as his daughter, with
the same luminously green eyes. But the orbs which in the maid shone as
steadily clear as the depths of the sea, in the father glittered
opalescent where he sat in the dusk, like the eyes of Grimalkin cornered
by dogs in some gloomy angle of the Wolfsberg wall.

As soon as I had set eyes on him I knew that I had to do with a man--not
with a walking show like my Lord Duke Casimir. It struck me that for good
or evil Master Gerard could carry through his intent to the bitter end,
and that in council he would smile when he saw my father change his black
vesture of trial for the red of beheading.

The Doctor Gerard was little seen in the streets of Thorn. Many citizens
had never so much as set eyes on him. Nevertheless his hand was in
everything. Some said he was a Jew, chiefly because none knew rightly
what he was or whence he had come. Thirty years had gone by since he had
suddenly appeared one day in the noble old house by the Weiss Thor, from
which Grätz the wizard and his wife had been burned out by the fury of
the populace. Twenty years of artistic labor had made this place what it
now was. And the little impish maid who used to break unexpectedly upon
the workmen of Thorn from behind doors, or who clapped hands upon their
shoulders in dusky recesses, scaring them out of their wits with
suggestions of witch-masters long dead and damned, had grown into this
maid of the sea-green eyes and silken draperies.

"A good-day to you, Hugo Gottfried!" said Master Gerard, quietly, looking
at me keenly across the table. He wore a skull-cap on his closely cropped
head. One or two betraying locks of gray appeared under it in front, but
did not conceal a flat forehead, which ran back at such an angle that,
with the luminous eyes beneath it, it gave him the look of a serpent
rearing his yellow head a little back in act to strike. This was a look
his daughter had also. But in her the gesture was tempered by the
free-playing curves of a beautiful throat and the forward thrust of a
rounded chin--advantages not possessed by the angular anatomy and bony
jaw of the famous doctor of law.

Master Gerard, clad in a long robe of black velvet from head to heel, sat
bending his fingers gracefully together and looking at me. His head was
thrown back, I have said, and the lights of the colored windows striking
on his gray hair and black skull-cap, caused him to look much more like
some lean ascetic ecclesiastic and prince of the church than the chief
lawyer of the ancient capital of the Wolfmark.

"You were present at this child's play yester-eve in the hostel of the
White Swan?" he asked, boring into me with his uncomfortable,
triangular eyes.

"Aye, truly," said I, "and much they made of me!"

For since my father said that I was accounted a hero in this house, I had
determined not to hide away my deeds in my leathern scrip. I had had
enough practice in playing at modesty in the Tower of the Red Axe.

Master Gerard shook his shoulders as though he would have made me believe
that he laughed.

"You were over many for thorn, I hear great silly fellows--children
playing with fire yet afraid to burn themselves. Why, since ten this
morning I have had them all here--stout burgomeister's sons, slim scions
of the Burghershaft, moist-eyed corporation children, each more anxious
than another to prove that he had nothing to do with any treason. He had
but called in at the White Swan for a draught of Frederika's famous stone
ale, and so--well, he found himself somehow in the rear, and, all
against his will, was dragged into the Lair of the White Wolf!"

He looked at me quietly, without speaking, for a while.

"And you, Master Hugo, did you go thither to distinguish yourself by
breaking up their child's folly, or, like the others, to taste the
stone ale?"

It was a question I had not expected. But it was best to be very plain
with Master Gerard.

"I went," I replied, "along with Michael Texel, because he asked me. I
knew not in the least what I was to see, but I was ready for anything."

"And you acquitted yourself on the whole extremely well," he nodded; "so
at least they are all very ready to say, hoping, I doubt not, for your
good offices with the Duke when it comes to their turn. You flouted them
right manfully and defied their mystery, they told me."

At this moment I became conscious that a door opposite me was open and
the curtain drawn a little way back. There, in the half-light, I saw
Mistress Ysolinde listening. She leaned her head aside as though it had
been heavy with its weight of locks of burned gold. She pillowed her
cheek against the door-post, and let her dreamy sea-green eyes rest upon
me. And the look that was in them gave me a sense of pleasure strange and
acute, as well as a restless uneasiness and vague desire to escape out
under the blue sky, and mingle with the throng of every-day men on the
streets of the city.

***


CHAPTER XI

THE VISION IS THE CRYSTAL


Master Gerard, however, did not seem to be aware of her presence, for he
continued his catechism steadily.

"You mocked at their terrors, did you not, and told them that you, who
had seen the teeth of the Duke's hounds, had nothing to fear from the
bare gums of the White Wolf?"

"I knew that they but played," I answered, "and that I had little to
fear."

For with Ysolinde von Sturm watching me with her eyes I could not for
very shame's sake make myself great.

"You told them more than that," the girl cried, suddenly flashing on me a
look keen as the light on a sword when it comes home from the cutler.
"You told them that you too desired a freer commonwealth!"

"I did," said I, flushing quickly, for I had thought to keep my
thumb on that.

Nevertheless I was not going back on my spoken word, even in the presence
of Duke Casimir's inquisitor. Besides which I judged that my father had
influence enough to bring me out scathless.

"That is well and bravely said!" he replied, smiling with thin lips which
in all their constant writhings showed no vestige of teeth within; "but
the sentiment itself is somewhat strange in the son of the Red Axe and
the future Executioner of Justice in the Wolfmark."

Then for the first time I permitted my eyes to rest on the lithe figure
of the girl in the doorway. Methought she inclined her head a little
forward to catch my answer as if it had been a matter of interest to her.

"I am indeed son of the Red Axe," said I, "but my own head would underlie
it rather than that I should ever be Hereditary Justicer of the Mark."

A smile that was meant for me passed over the girl's face and momently
sweetened her lips. She straightened her body and set a hand more easily
to her waist. A certain kindness dwelt in her emerald eyes.

"Never be Duke's Justicer!" cried Master Gerard, looking up with his hand
on a skull. "This is unheard of! Are not you the only son of Gottfried
Gottfried, right hand of Duke Casimir, highest in favor with his Grace?
And within two years, according to the law of the headsman, must you not
also don the Red and the Black and stand at the Duke's left hand, as your
father at his right, when he sits in judgment?"

I bowed my head for answer.

"Even so," said I; "but long before that time I shall be either in a far
country waging the wars of another lord, or in a country yet
farther--that to which the men of my race have directed so many
untimeously."

"Have you at all thought of the land or the lord to whom you would
transfer your allegiance?" said Gerard von Sturm, carelessly rapping with
his fingers on the bare white of the skull before him.

"I have not," I replied as easily.

He looked down a moment, and drew his black robe thoughtfully over his
knee as if turning the matter over in his mind. "What think you of
Plassenburg and the service of Prince Karl?" he said at last.

"The place is too near and the man a usurper," I replied, brusquely.

"I am not so sure," Master Gerard mused, slowly, "that it might not be
advantageous to bide near home. Duke Casimir is mortal, after all--long
and prosperously may he live!" (Here he inclined his head piously, while
naming his master.) "But who knows how long he may be spared to reign
over a loving people. And after that, why, there may be more usurpers.
For by the name 'usurper' the ignorant mostly mean men of the strong
heart and sure brain, who can hold that which they have with one hand and
reach out for more with the other."

While he spoke thus he looked at me with his green eyes half closed.

"But," said I, calmly enough, though my heart beat fast, "I am but a lad
untried. I may never rise beyond a private soldier. I may be killed at
the first assault of my virgin campaign."

Master Gerard looked up quickly. He beckoned to his daughter. For though
by no faintest gesture had he betrayed his knowledge of her presence, he
had yet clearly known it all the time.

"Ysolinde," he said, "bring hither thy crystal!"

The maid disappeared and presently returned with a ball in her hand of
some substance which looked like misty glass.

"I have been looking in it already," she said, "ever since Hugo Gottfried
came out of the Red Tower."

Her voice was soft and even, with the same sough in it as of the wind
among poplar-trees which I had heard in the rustle of her silken dress as
she came up the stair.

"And what," asked her father, "have you seen in the crystal, child of
my heart?"

He looked up at me with some little shamefacedness, or so I imagined.

"I am a dry old man of the law," he went on, "dusty of heart as these
black books up yonder--books not of magic but of fact, of crime and pain
and penalty. But this my daughter Ysolinde, wise from a child, solaces
herself with the white, innocent magic, such as helps man and brings him
nearer that which is unseen."

The maid knelt by her father's knee, and held the crystal ball in the
hollow of her hands against the sable of his velvet robe. She passed one
hand swiftly twice or thrice over her brow, as though to clear away some
cobwebs, gossamer thin, that had folded themselves across her vision.
Then, in the same wistful, wind-soft voice, she began to speak. And as
she spoke all that I had loved and known began to pass from before me. I
forgot my father. I forgot the Red Tower. I forgot (God forgive me, yet
help it I could not!) the little Princess Playmate and her sweetest eyes.
I forgot all else save this lithe, serpentine maiden with the massive
crown of burned and tawny gold upon her head.

"I see," she began, "a long street and many men struggling on it--the
Wolf of the Wolfmark, the Eagle of Plassenburg are face to face. I see
Red Karl the Prince. The young Wolf has the better of it. He bites his
lip and drives hard. The Prince is down. He is wounded. He is like to
die. The Wolf will drive all to destruction.

"But see--" she sighed, and paused the while as if that which she saw
next touched her--"from the swelter in the rear comes a young soldier. He
has lost his helmet. I see his head. It is a fair head with crisp curls.
He has a sword in his hand and he lays well about him. He cuts a way to
the Prince--he bestrides his body.

"Give way there, scullions, that I may see more!" she cried, impetuously,
and waved her hand before her eyes, which were fixed expressionless on
the crystal. "I see him again. Well done, young soldier! Valiantly laid
on. It is great sword-play. Bravo! The Wolf is down. The Eagle of
Plassenburg is up--I can see no more!"

And suddenly she dropped the ball, which would have rolled off her
father's knee had he not caught it as it fell.

Ysolinde kept her head on Master Gerard's lap for a long minute, as if,
after the vision of the crystal, she could not bear the common light nor
speak of meaner things. Then, without once looking at me, she rose,
gathered her skirts in her hand, and glided out of the doorway in which
she had stood.

When she was quite gone her father reached a bony hand across to me.

"That is a great fate which she has read for you--never have I seen her
so moved, nor yet her vision so clear and unmistakable. Surely the sooner
you seek the service of the Prince of Plassenburg the better."

"But," said I, "how do I know that he will accept me? He may not wish to
retain in his service the son of the Red Axe of the Wolf mark."

Master von Sturm smiled subtly at me.

"I cannot tell," he said, "why it is that I have an interest in you. But
I desire to see you other than that which you are. I have, strange as it
may seem in one of such humble degree here in the city of Thorn, whom all
may consult without fee or reward, a certain influence and place in the
councils of the reigning Prince of Plassenburg. If, therefore, you will
take service with him, I can give you such an introduction as will
guarantee you a place, not as man-at-arms, but as officer, so that your
way may lie before you clear from the first. Also in this promotion you
shall have a good sufficient reason to give those who may accuse you of
changing your service."

I could not answer him for gladness. The hope seemed so unbelievable--the
fortune too grateful to be true. I was overcome, and, as I guess, showed
it in my face. For twice I essayed to speak and could not.

So that Master Gerard rose and glided over to me, patting me kindly
enough on the shoulders and bidding me take courage, saying that he loved
to see modesty in this untoward generation, in which there was little
virtue and no gratitude at all.

Life itself has more advantages like this, than by any "life" in
renunciation, bleach addiction and virtues else - you've got the
others from his sight free, you have the life of a liberated objection
...

Pessimism, pur, vert, proves itself only by the self-refutation of Mr.
pessimists: one must go a step further in its logic, not just with "the
will and imagination," as Schopenhauer is that, the life of the negative
- that we must Schopenhauer first negative ...

The pessimism, said enclosed so contagious it is, increasing the morbidity
is still not a time of one sex as a whole: it is their expression.
You forfeit him how to forfeit the cholera: one has morbid enough
to have been created.

Pessimism itself does not make one more decadent, and I remind you of the
result of statistics that the years in which the cholera wüthet, in the
total-point of deaths from other vintages differ 37. Whether we have
become moral. - Against my concept of "beyond good and evil" has, as
expected was that the whole of the moral Ferocität stupefying, known in
Germany as the morality itself is - that's thrown stuff: I would
like to tell stories like this.

Above all, you gave me the "undeniable superiority" of our moral Urtheil
time to rethink our really made progress here: one was Cesare
Borgia, in comparison with us, not as a "higher man", as a kind of
Übermensch, as I Thue it to set ...

A Swiss journalist, from the "Bund", went so far, not without
its respect for the courage to such ventures to express the
meaning of my work so as to "understand" that I am using the same
for the abolition of all decent feelings requested.

Very connected! - Allow me, as a response to ask whether we really
have become moral.

That all the world believes is an object ... We modern people, very
tender, very vulnerable and hundreds of key considerations and taking form
in us That, this tender humanity which we represent, this attained
Einmüthigkeit in conservation, in the Hülfsbereitschaft, mutual
trust is a positive step forward, so we were far beyond the beyond
of the Renaissance man. But just think every time, so it must think.

It is true that we are not in the Renaissance states should make it, do
not even think about it: our nerves were not the reality, not to
speak of our muscles. With this failure, but no progress is demonstrated,
but only one other, a subsequent condition, a weaker, more tender,
vulnerable, resulting in a necessarily considerate of morality
generated.

Think Spätheit and our tenderness, our physiological aging away, so even
losing our morality of "humanizing" their immediate Werth - in itself has
no moral Werth - they would make even disdain.

The other hand we do not doubt that we moderns with our thick wattirten
Humanity, which plans to use no stone unturned to meet Will, the
contemporaries of Cesare Borgia's a comedy would submit to Todtlachen.
In That we are on the involuntary Maassen spass-term, with our modern
"virtues" ... The decrease in hostile misstrauenweckenden and instincts
- and that would be our "progress" - is just one of the consequences in
the general decline in vitality that it costs a hundred times more effort,
more caution, a so contingent, so late existence enforce. As we help
each other, since each is to a certain extent sick Anyone sick and
guards.

This means then that "virtue" -: among people who are living somewhere
else knew, full, wasteful, overflowing, it's would have otherwise called
"cowardice" perhaps, "pathetic", "Indian morality," ...

Our mitigation of morals - that is my sentence, that is, if you will,
my innovation - is a consequence of the decline of the hardship and horror
of the custom may be reversed a consequence of the surplus of his
life: namely, it may also be large bold large challenged, also
wasted large.

What former spice of life was, for us it would be poison ... Indifferent
to be - this is a form of starch - which, we are also too old, too late:
our compassion, morality, in which I have warned the First , Das,
l'Impressionism what you might call moral, is more an expression
of physiological Überreizbarkeit that everything is decadent, is
suitable.

That movement, with the compassion-Schopenhauer's morality has tried
to demonstrate scientifically - a very unfortunate attempt! - Decadence
is the actual movement in morals, as such it is deeply related with the
Christian morality. The strong times, make the culture look in pity, in
the "charity", in lack of self esteem and self-contemptuous something.
- The times are measured in accordance with their positive forces
- and those yields are so wasteful and disastrous period of the
Renaissance than the last big time, and we, we moderns with our
anxious self-care and charity, with our virtues of work, modesty,
the legal, science - collecting, economically, machinal - as a weak
time ...

Our virtues are related, are challenged by our weakness ... The "equality",
a certain thatsächliche Anähnlichung that are in the theory of "equal
rights" only expresses significantly to the decline include: the gap
between man and man, stand and stand, the multiplicity of types, the
will, even to be to differ, that what I call pathos of distance,
each time strong as its own.

The clamping force, the spread between the extremes is now getting
smaller and smaller - the extremes themselves become blurred to the
similarity finally ...

All our political theories and state constitutions, the "German Reich"
is not excluded, are to be drawn, follow-up necessarily of decline,
the unconscious effect of Decadence is up to the ideals of individual
sciences it has become Mr.

My objection to the whole Sociologie in England and France is that they
only revocation of the entity knows from experience Societät completely
innocent and their own instincts as a revocation of the standard
sociologischen Werth ruling takes.

The niedergehende lives, the acceptance of all organize, that is divisive,
tear open fissures, underground and überordnenden force formulirt in
Sociologie from today to the ideal ... Our Socialiste are decadent,
but Mr.

Herbert Spencer is a decadent, - he sees the triumph of altruism
rather wishes Werthes!

38th ... My definition of freedom. - The value of a thing sometimes
lies not in what you achieve with it, but in what you paid for them -
what they cost us. I'll give an example. The liberal institutions as
soon as possible to hear, to be liberal when they are reached, it no
later giebt anger and thorough damage of freedom than liberal
institutions. We know indeed what it means to bring it unterminiren
the will to power, they are charged to the morale Nivellirung
of mountain and valley, they make small, cowardly, and pleasurably
- triumphirt with them every time the Heerdenthier.

Liberalism: the German-Heerden Verthierung ... The same institutions, so
long as they still fought for are quite different effects, they
encourage the then That the freedom of a mighty way.

Zugesehn More precisely, it is the war that produces these effects, the
war for liberal institutions, the war as the illiberal instincts
can take.

And war educates for freedom. Because what is freedom! That the desire
for self-responsibility has.

That the distance which separated us, firmly. That one of toil, hardship,
deprivation, against life itself is indifferent.

That one is prepared for his people to sacrifice themselves are not
settled.

Freedom means that the male, the war siegsfrohen instincts and have dominion
over other instincts, for example on the "happiness".

The freigewordne man, how much longer the freigewordne spirit,
enters with feet on the contemptuous nature of wellbeing, of the
Merchants, Christians, cows, women, Englishmen and other democrats
dream.

The free man is warrior. - What is the measure of freedom, to individuals,
as nations?

After the resistance, which needs to be overcome by the efforts
that it costs up to stay.

The highest type of free people would get there, where consistently
the highest resistance is overcome: five steps from tyranny, close
to the threshold of the danger of servitude.

This is true psychologically, if you here under the "tyrant"
inexorable instincts and horrible understands that the maximum of
authority and breeding against challenging - the most beautiful
type of Julius Caesar - this is also true politically, you just do
his walk through history .

The people who were worth something, worth, were never under liberal
institutions: the great danger from them was something that deserves
respect, the danger to us our Hülfsmittel, our virtues, our defense
and weapons, our spirit only know teaches us - forcing us to be
strong ...

First principle: one must be Nöthiger have to be strong: otherwise it's
never. - Those large hothouses for strong, the strongest kind of human
being, so far, has the aristocratic communities in the way of Rome and
Venice understood freedom exactly in the sense, as I understand the
word freedom, as something that one has and does not have that you want
to be conquered ... 39th critique of modernity. - Our bodies suck more:
it is one einmüthig. But that has nothing to do with them, but to us.
After we lost all the instincts, from which institutions grow, our
institutions will ever get lost, because we no longer suitable to them.
Demokratismus was any time-shape of the decline organize force: I
already have in "Human, Allzumenschliches" 1, 318 modern democracy
sammt her half-like "German Reich", as a form of decay of the state
marked.

To make it giebt institutions, there must be some kind of will,
instinct, imperative that anti-liberal to malice: the will to tradition,
to authority, to responsibility for centuries out of gender
solidarity chains forwards and backwards in infinitum.

If this will exists, it builds something like the imperium Romanum: or
like Russia, the only power that is now permanent in him, the wait can
still promise something which can - Russia opposed the concept of the
abject European particularism and nervousness, with the founding of the
German Reich in a critical condition has occurred ...

The entire West has those instincts are no longer of which institutions
grow, from which future growth: its "modern spirit" is perhaps nothing
so much against the grain. One lives for today, one lives very
fast - one lives very irresponsibly: precisely this is called
"freedom." What makes institutions from institutions, it is despised,
hated, rejected: one believes in the danger of a new slavery,
where the word "authority" is simply loud.

How far does the Decadence in our instincts Werth-politicians, our
political parties: instinctively they ziehn, which dissolves, which
accelerated the end ... the modern marriage certificate.

From the modern marriage is seen lost all reason: the giebt but no objection
to the marriage, but against modernity. The rationality of marriage - she
was the sole legal responsibility of the man: so had the marriage
heavyweight, while today it limps on both legs.

The rationality of marriage - she was its insolubility principiellen:
so that they got Accent, which, with the chance of feeling, passion and
time to make itself heard to create knew. Insgleichen It was the
responsibility of families for the selection of the husband. It has
been the growing Indulgenz in favor of love Heirath the very basis
of marriage, that what first made her an institution makes, effects
eliminated.

You never founded an institution and never to idiosyncrasy, it
establishes the marriage is not, as I said, to "love" - one based
on the sex drive, the Eigenthumstrieb (woman and child as property),
to the domination shoot that is consistently the smallest structure
of domination, the family, organisirt, children and heirs need to
reached Maass of power, influence, Reichthum also noted physiologically
to long tasks instinct for solidarity between centuries prepare.

Marriage as an institution already understands the affirmation of the
biggest, the most enduring form of organization in itself: even if society
as a whole, not for themselves gutsagen may be up in the furthest beyond
gender, the marriage makes no sense. - The modern marriage lost its meaning
- consequently one creates it. - 40 The Workers' question. - The
stupidity, in fact, the instinct-degeneracy, which is today the cause of
all stupidities is, is that there is a worker issue giebt. About some
things you do not ask: first imperative of instinct. - I do not
quite see what to do with the European workers' wishes, after only
a question of him did.

He is much too good to not step more to ask unbescheidner to ask. He has
most recently the large number of its own. The hope is completely gone,
that there is a modest and self-sufficient kind of man, a type of
Chinese ethics to emerge: and this would have had reason, this would
be an almost necessarily have been.

What you have done? - Everything to keep even the requirement to
destroy the germs, - one has the instincts, by which a worker as
a possible stand herself to be possible, through the irresponsible
thoughtlessness in land destroyed.

It has made the workers militärtüchtig, you've got him the Coalition's
law, where the political right to vote: what wonder if the worker's existence
today as Nothstand (expressed as morally wrong -) feels? But what you
want? asked again. Will you have a purpose, one must also want the means:
will you slave, you are a fool if one educates them to Lord. - 41
"Freedom, which I do not mean ..."

In such times, as now, his instincts be his, is a Verhängniss more.
These instincts contradict, interfere with, destroy themselves, I
definirte the modern as physiological self-contradiction.

The reason of Education would want at least an iron Prints One of
these instincts would paralysirt systems to prevent other to allow
for forces to come strong to be under control.

Today, one individual only possible by using the same cuts: possible, that
is quite ... The reverse happens: the claim to independence, to free
development, Laissez all of which is being made on hotly for whom no
reins would be too severe - this applies in politicis, this applies in
the art.

But that is a symptom of Decadence: our modern notion of "freedom" is a
proof of degeneracy more instinctive. - 42 Where does faith north. -
Nothing is seltner among moralists and saints than righteousness,
perhaps they say the opposite Theil, maybe they believe it themselves,
if a belief is useful, effective, convincing, as the conscious
hypocrisy, then, from instinct, as soon as possible to the hypocrisy
of innocence : First record for understanding great saint.

Even with the philosophers, a sort of other saints, it brings the whole
craft with them, that they only allow certain truths: namely, those to
which their craft is public sanction - Kantian talk truths of
practical reason.

They know what they have to prove that they are handy - they recognize
one another because they have "the truth" coincide. - "Thou shalt
not lie" - in German: watch yourself, sir philosopher to tell the
truth ... 43rd in the Conservative's ear said. - What you never
knew what we now know, might know - a regression, a reversal in
some sense, and what grade is not possible.

We know that at least physiologists But all priests and moralists have
believed - they wanted the human race to an earlier Maass Virtue to bring
back, screw back. Morality was always a Procrustes bed. Even the
politicians have made it to the Tugendpredigern fake it still giebt
Parties serving as the target cancer Gang dreaming of all things.

Nobody But it is free, to be cancer. It helps nothing: you must forward,
to say step by step in the Decadence (- this is my definition of modern
"progress" ...). One can inhibit this development and, by inhibiting the
degeneration dam itself, pick up, vehement and sudden make more, you can
not. - 44
None so wise that he can tell
when the Silent Rider shall meet him in the wood, leading by the bridle
the pale horse whose name is Death, and beckoning him to mount and ride."

The Lady Ysolinde paused a while, touching her lips thoughtfully with
her fingers.

"Let your Playmate come," she said. "There is room, I warrant, for her
and you both at Plassenburg. You shall keep each other company when
you have the homesickness, and on the journey she can ride with us
side by side."

Then going to the curtain she summoned the servitor who had first opened
the door for me. He bowed before the girl with infinite respect. She bade
him conduct me upon my way. I will not deny that I had hoped for a
tenderer leave-taking. But all at once she seemed to have slipped back
into the great lady again, and to be desirous of setting me in my own
sphere and station ere I went, lest perchance I should presume overmuch
upon her favors.

Yet not altogether so. For, relenting a little as I turned to leave her,
she stood holding the curtain aside for me to pass, and, as it had been
by accident, in dropping it her fingers rested a moment against my
cheek. Then the heavy curtain of blue fell into its place, and I found
myself following the eminently respectable domestic of Master Gerard
down the stairs.

At the outer door, but before he opened it, the man put a sealed packet
in my hand.

"From Doctor Gerard von Sturm," he said, bowing respectfully, yet with a
certain sense of being a party in a favor conferred.

I thrust the letter into my inner pocket and went out into the street.
The sun was still shining, yet somehow I felt that it must be another
day, another world. The houses seemed hard and dry, the details of the
architecture insufferably mean and insultingly familiar. I longed with
all my heart to get away from Thorn into the new world which had opened
to me--a world of perfumes and flowers and flower-like scents and
Oriental marvels, of low voices, too, and the touching of soft hands
upon cheeks.

In all the world of young men there was no greener or more simple Simon
than I, Hugo Gottfried, as, playing a tune on the pipe of my own conceit,
I marched up the High Street of Thorn to the entrance gate of the
Wolfsberg.

The Little Playmate was standing at the door as I approached, sweet as a
June rose. When she saw me she went into the sitting-room to show that
she had not yet forgiven me. Though I think by this time, as was often
the way with Helene, she had forgotten almost what was the original
matter of my offending.

But I pretended to be careless and heart-free. And so--God forgive
me!--I went whistling up the steps of the Red Tower to my room without
so much as looking within the chamber where my Little Playmate had
withdrawn herself.

Which thing I suffered grievously for or all was done. And an excellent
dispensation of Providence it had been if I had lost my right hand, all
for making that little heart sore, or so much as one tear drop from those
deep gray eyes.


CHAPTER XIII

CHRISTIAN'S ELSA


It was about this time, and after we had made our quarrel up, that Helene
began to call me "Great Brother." After all, there is manifest virtue in
a name, and the Little Playmate seemed to find great comfort in thus
addressing me.

And after that I had called her "Little Sister" once or twice she was
greatly assured and treated me quite differently, having ascertained that
between young men and women there is the utmost safety in such a
relationship.

And as all ways were alike to me, I was willing enough. For indeed I
loved her and none other, and so did all the days of my life. Though I
know that my actions and conceits were not always conformable to the true
love that was in my heart, neither wholly worthy of my dear maid.

But, then, what would you? Nineteen and the follies of one's youth! The
mercy of God rather than any virtue in me kept these from being not only
infinitely more numerous, but infinitely worse. Yet I had better confess
them, such as they are, in this place. For it was some such nothings as
those which follow that first brought Helene and me into one way of
thinking, though by paths very devious indeed.

To begin with the earliest. There was a maid who dwelt in the Tower of
the Wolfsberg opposite, called the Tower of the Captain of the Guard. And
the maid's name was Elsa, or, as she was ordinarily called, "Christian's
Elsa." She was a comely maid enough, and greatly taken notice of. And
when I went to my window to con over my task for Friar Laurence, there at
the opposite window would be--strange that it should always he
so--Christian's Elsa. She was a little girl, short and plump, but with
merry eyes and so bright a stain upon either cheek that it seemed as if
she had been eating raspberry conserve, and had wiped her fingers upon
the smiling plumpness there.

At any rate, as sure as ever I betook me to the window, there would be
Christian's Elsa, busy with her needles.

And to tell truth I misliked it not greatly. Why, indeed, should I? For
there is surely no harm in looking across twenty yards of space at a
maid, and as little in the maid looking at you--that is, if neither of
you come any nearer. Besides, it is much pleasanter to look at a pretty
lass than at a vacant wall and twenty yards of uneven cobble-stones.

Now the girl was harmless enough--a red and white maid, plump as a
partridge in the end of harvest. She was forever humming at songs,
singing little choruses, and inventing of new melodies, all tunefully and
prettily enough. And she would bring her dulcimer to the window and play
them over, nodding her head to the instrument as she sang.

It was pleasant to watch her. For sometimes when the music refused to run
aright, she would frown at the dulcimer, as if the discord had been
entirely its fault and it was old enough to know better. Then sometimes
she would look across abstractedly to the Red Tower, trying to recall a
strain she had forgotten, with her finger all the while making the most
bewitching dimple on her plump cheek. It was most sweet and innocent to
see. And withal so entirely unconscious that any one could possibly be
observing her.

I confess that I sat often and conned my book by the window, long after
I knew my portion by heart, in order to watch her deft fingers upon the
dulcimer sticks and the play of her dimples. But on my part also this was
in all innocence and wholly thoughtless of guile.

Then would I be taken with a spasm of desire to play upon the recorders
or the Bavarian single flute, and would pester my father to let me learn.

Now I never had any more ear for music than a deal board that has
knot-holes in it. I had ears indeed. But the clatter of the mill-wheel
and the lapper of water on the stones of the shore were ever better music
to me than singing or playing upon instruments. Nevertheless, at this
time, for some reason or other, I was in a great fret to learn.

And, curiously enough, my desire made the Little Playmate call me "Great
Brother" more assiduously than ever. Though again I knew not why.

But Christian's Elsa she could not abide either sight or mention of.
Which was passing strange in so sweet and charitable a maid as our
Helene. Also the girl at the guard-house was a good daughter, besides
being particular of her company, and in that garrison place untouched by
any breath of scandal.

But no; Helene would have none of her.

"_Feech_!" she would say, making a little grimace of disgust which she
had brought with her from her northern home; "that noisy, mewling cat,
purring and stroking her face, in the window, I cannot abide her. I know
not what some folks can see in her. There are surely more kinds of
blindness than of those that wait about kirk doors with a board hung
round their necks, saying, 'Good people, for the love of God, put a
copper in this wooden platter.'"

"Why, Little Playmate, what ails thee at the maid? She is a good maid
enough, and, I am sure, a pretty one."

So would I say to try her. Whereat the lass, being slender herself, and
with a head that sat easily on her shoulders, would walk off like the
haughty little Princess she was, and thrust her chin so far forward that
even the pretty round of it bespoke a pointed scorn. And the poutlets
would come and go on her red lips so quickly that I would come from the
window, leaving my book and Christian's Elsa, and a thousand Elsas, just
to watch them.

"So, Great Brother," Helene would say, "you think she is pretty, do you?
'Tis interesting, for sure. As for me, I see not anything pretty about
her. Now, there is Katrin Texel, she is pretty, if you like. What say
you to her?"

And this was because the minx knew well that I never could abide Katrin
Texel, a girl all running to seed like a shot stalk of rhubarb, who would
end up in the neighborhood of six foot in height, and just that "fine
figure of a woman" which I never could abide.

"_Feech_!" I would say, copying her Wendish expression. "I would as soon
set my feather bolster on end, paint it black and white, and make love to
it as to Katrin Texel."

"You do worse every day of your life," retorted Helene, with pretty
spite, tapping the floor with the point of one delicate foot.

"And, pray, what do I that is worse?" I said, knowing full well what.

The Little Playmate was silent a minute, only continuing to tap the flags
with a kind of naughtiness that became her.

"Katrin Texel would not look at you, charming as you think yourself," she
said, at last.

"Did she tell you so, Little Sister?" said I, drawing a bow at a
great venture.

The arrow struck, and I was content.

"Well," she answered, somewhat breathlessly, "what if she did? Surely
even your vanity can take nothing out of a girl saying that she cannot
abide you."

But I answered nothing to this, only stroked the mustache which was
beginning to thrive admirably on my upper lip.

"Of all the--" began Helene, looking at me fixedly. Then she stopped.

"Well," said I, pausing in the caressing of my chin, "what do I worse
every day than make love to Katrin Texel?"

Her eyes fairly sparkled fire at me. They were "sweetest eyes" no more,
but rarely worth looking into all the same.

"You go ogling and staring at that little she-cat in the window over
there, that screeches and becks and pats herself, all for showing off!
And you, Hugo Gottfried, like a great oaf, thinking all the time how
innocent and sweet and--oh, I have no patience with you!--to neglect and
think nothing of--of Katrin Texel, and--and then to go gazing and gaping
after a thing like that!"

And I declare there were tears in the Little Playmate's eyes.

"Dear Little Sister, why are you so mindful about Katrin Texel?" said I.
"Faith, my lass, wait till she comes again, and I will court her to your
heart's content. There--there--I will be a very Valentine's true lover to
your Katrin."

For all that she was not greatly cheered, but edged away, still strangely
disconsolate when I came near and tried to pet her. Mysterious and hidden
are the ways of women! For once, when I would have put my hand about her
pretty slender waist, she promptly took me by the wrist, and holding it
at arm's-length, she dropped it from her with a disgustful curl of her
lip, as if it had been an intruding spider she had perforce to put forth
out of her chamber into the garden.

Yet formerly, upon occasion when, as it might be, she was reading or
looking out of the window, if I but came behind her and called her
"Little Sister," I might even put my hand upon her shoulder, and so stand
for five minutes at a time and she never seem to notice it.


CHAPTER XIV

SIR AMOROUS IS PLEASED WITH HIMSELF


For, as I say, women have curious ways, and there are a good many of them
recorded in this book. And yet more I have observed which I cannot find
room for in a chronicle of so many sad and bad and warlike happenings.
But none of them all is more notable than this--that women, or at least
(for it is no use saying "women," every one being different in temper,
though like as pease in some things) many women, will permit that which
it suits them to be oblivious of, when if you ask them for permission or
make a favor of the matter, they will promptly flame sky-high with
indignation. So my advice to the young man who honestly goes a-courting
is to keep talking earnestly, to occupy his mistress's attention withal,
and progress in her favors during the abstractions of high discourse.

Of course in this, as in all other similar enterprises, Sir Amorous
must have a certain trading-stock of favor to start with. But if he
have this much, 'tis not difficult to increase it by honest endeavor,
and, as it were, the sweat of his brain. So at least I am told by
those who have proved it. Nevertheless, for myself, I have used no
such nice refinements, but rather taken with thankfulness such things
as came in my way.

And now when I look back over my paper--lord! what a pother of writing
about it and about! But my excuse is that many young lads and gay
bachelors will read this tale, so I desire to import what of instruction
I can into it. And not having the learning of the clerks, I must e'en
put in what wisdom I have gotten for myself in my passage through the
world. For I never could plough with another man's heifer--least of all
with that of a college-bred Mess John. Not but what Mess John knoweth
somewhat of the lear of love also among the well-favored dames of the
city. Or else, by my faith, Mess John is sorely belied.

But where was I in my tale? And if this present errant discourse be
forgiven, surely I will not transgress again, but drive my team straight
to the furrow's end and then back again, like an honest ploughman that
has his eye ever upon the guide-poles on the windy ridge.

Well, the Little Playmate lifted a toad from her waist--I mean my
hand--and dropped it as far from her as her arm would reach.

And then after that she ran up-stairs, slammed the door of her own
chamber, and came not down to our nooning, so that old Hanne had to call
her three times.

And once, when I had occasion to cross the court-yard to the guard-house,
I saw her standing pensively by the window. But so soon as she saw me she
vanished within and was seen no more.

Yet, indeed and indeed, as all may see, there was no cause for all this
fret. For I cared no more about Christian's Elsa than about Christian
himself--less, indeed, for Christian was a good soldier and
master-at-arms, and taught me how to handle the match-lock, the pistolet,
and the other new weapons that had begun to come in from France. And
often upon Saturdays and wet days he would let me spend long mornings in
the armory with him, oiling and cleaning the ordnance. Which it certainly
was a great pleasure to do.

And what if the little dumpling Elsa, with her red cheeks and her babyish
eyes, did run in and out. Her father was ever with us, and even had I
been willing there was no opportunity for more than a word or a touch of
her fingers--well, save once, when her father went himself to seek the
bottle of oil she had been sent to fetch, and was some time in finding
it. But even that was a mere nothing, and might have happened to any one.

But when I came home again that night, you would have thought that the
whole happening had been printed legibly on my face. The Little Playmate
would not let me come within a hundred miles of her. And it was "Keep
your distance, sirrah!" Not perhaps said in words, but expressed as
clearly by the warlike angle of an arm, the contumelious hitch of a
shoulder, or the scornful sweep of an adverse skirt.

And all about nothing! Mighty Hector! I never saw such things as women.

And yet in her good moments she would call me "Great Brother," and tell
me that she thought only of my future welfare, desiring that I should not
compromise myself in any entanglement with such as were not worthy of me.
Oh, a most wise and prudent counsellor was the Playmate in these days.

And I used ever to say: "Helene, when I am truly in love I will e'en
bring her here to you, and, by my faith, if you approve not--why, there
is an end of the matter. Back she goes to her mother like a parcel of
returned goods--aye, if she were the Kaiser's daughter herself!"

Whereat she pouted and was not ill-pleased.

"Ah, my man," she would reply, "after a girl hath said you nay a time or
two, it will bring you down from these high notions, and be much for your
soul's final good!"

But yet, when I could keep her in good-humor, it was exceedingly sweet to
bide quietly in the house with the Little Playmate--far better than to
gad about with Texels and meandering fools, which indeed I did
oftentimes just because it made my little lass so full of moods and
tenses--like one of Friar Laurence's irregular verbs in his cursed
Humanities. For there is nothing so variously delightful as a woman when
she is half in love and half out of it--more interesting (say some)
though less delightful than when she is all and whole in love.
Nevertheless, there are exceptions, and one woman at least I know more
various, and more delicious also, since love's ocean hath gone over her
head, than ever she was when, like a timid bather, she shivered on the
brink or made little fearful plunges, as it were knee-deep, and so ran
out again.

But I am not come to that in the story yet.

Well, on the afternoon of the next day, who should come to the house in
the Red Tower but our Helene's gossip, for this week at least her bosom
friend, Katrin Texel. She was even more impressive in manner than ever,
and also a little pleasanter to behold. For her angles were clothing
themselves into curves, and she was learning, perhaps from the Little
Playmate, to leave off bouncing into a room like a cow at the trot, and
to walk in sedately instead. By-and-by I knew she would come sailing down
the street like a towered galleon from the isles of Ind. For all that,
she looked not ill--an academic study for Juno, one might say. But to
make love to--why, as Helene was wont to remark, _Feech!_

And the curious thing about Katrin Texel was that though her corporeal
part might be a direct inheritance from her Burgomeister father and his
substantial brewery, her spirit had been designed for an artful fairy of
half her size, in order that it might go pirouetting into airy realms of
the imagination. For she was gay enough and lightsome enough in her
demeanor. She came in with a skip which would have been entrancing in
some elfish mignonne who could dance light-foot on spring flowers without
crushing them. But when this our solid Burgomagisterial Katrin tripped
in, it nearly drove me wild with mirth. For it was as if some bland
maternal cow out of the pasture had skipped with a hop and a circle of
flying skirts into a ballroom or a butterfly of two hundred pounds'
weight had taken to flitting from flower to flower.

And this Katrin talked in a quick, light voice, with ups and downs and
skips and quivers in it, as spring-heeled as a chamois goat on the
mountains of the south.

"Ah, Tiny-chen," she would cry, as she came undulating and cooing in to
our Helene, "is it you, dearest? 'Tis as sweet to see you as for birds to
kiss on bough! I have danced all day in the sunshine just to think that I
should come to see you! And tell me why you have not been to visit me.
Ah, bad one--cruelest--as cruel as she is pretty" (appealing to me), "is
she not? And there, our Michael, great oaf, sits at home desolated that
he does not hear her foot on the stairs. The foolish fellow tells me that
he listens for four little pit-a-pats every time that I come up from the
court-yard, and is disappointed when there come back only my poor two."

And Katrin becked and nodded and set her head to the side--like to the
divine Io-Cow playing at being little Jenny Wren.

And as for me, I kept my gravity--or, rather, how could I lose it,
hearing such nonsense about that great stupid beer-vat, Michael Texel.

Michael Texel, indeed! I should admire to hear of Michael Texel so much
as raising his eyes to the Little Playmate. Why, I would stave him on
the open street like a puncheon of eight, and think nothing of the
doing of it.

Michael Texel, indeed!

But I am forgetting. My business at this time was to make love to Katrin,
so that I might banish the ill impression which Helene had formed
concerning that pleasant, harmless little Christian's Elsa over there. I
never heard anything so foolish in my life. But, then, what women will
think and say passes the imagination of man.

Michael Texel indeed!

The thought of that young man of beef and beer recurred so persistently
and forcibly to me that for a time I could scarce command myself to speak
civilly to his sister. Though, of course, she was quite different, being
a woman, and informed with such a quick and dainty spirit that at times
it seemed as it had been imprisoned in her too massive frame and held "in
subjection to the flesh," as the clerics say. God wot, I never knew I had
so much religion and morality about me till I came to write. If I do not
have a care this tale of mine will turn out almost as painful as a book
of devotion which they set children to read on saints' days to keep them
from being over-happy.

But I subdued my feelings and drew up somewhat nearer to Katrin.

"My Little Sister--" so I began, cunningly, as I thought--"my sister
Helene is, indeed, fortunate to have so fair a friend, and one so
devoted--"

"As my brother Michael, yes," she twittered, with her most ponderous,
cage-bird manner; "yes, indeed, he _is_ devoted to her."

"No," said I, hastily (confound the great hulking camel!), "I mean such a
faithful friend as yourself. I, alas, have no friend. I am cut off from
all society of my kind. Often and often have I felt the weight of
loneliness press heavy upon me in this darksome tower."

I saw Helene rise, go to the window, and glance across with such a
peculiar smile that I knew as well as if I had seen her that Christian's
Elsa was at her window with her music, looking across for me between each
bar. I cannot describe the smile which hovered on the face of the Little
Playmate. But perhaps all the male beings who read my book may have seen
something like it. All that I can say is, that the smile conveyed an
almost superhuman understanding of men and their little ways, and,
curiously enough, something of contempt too.

But I was not going to be discouraged by any smile, acid or sweet.
Besides, I had something still to pay back.

Michael Texel, indeed!--faith, by St. Blaise, I will Texel him tightly an
he comes sneaking to our gate!

So again I drew yet nearer to his sister. Katrin dimpled and showed her
teeth, with a smile like the sun going about the world, till I had almost
put my hand behind her shoulders to catch the ends of it when it got
round. This illumination almost finished me, for it was not the kind of
smile I had been accustomed to from--well, that was not the business I
was on at present.


CHAPTER XV

THE LITTLE PLAYMATE SETTLES ACCOUNTS


But I admit that the smile discouraged me. Nevertheless I proceeded
gallantly.

"Ah, Jungfrau Texel," said I, "you cannot know how your presence
brightens our lives here in the Red Tower. Wherefore will you not come
oftener to our grim abode?"

I thought that, on the whole, pretty well; but, looking up at Helene, I
saw that her smile (so different from that of the Io-Cow Katrin) had
become a whole volume of scathing satire. God wot, it is not easy to make
love to a lass when your "Little Sister" is listening--especially to a
woman-mountain set on watch-springs like Katrin Texel.

But, after all, Katrin was no ways averse to love-making of any kind,
which, after all, is the main thing. And as for the Little Playmate, I
did not mind her a bonnet-tag. She had brought it upon herself.

Michael Texel indeed!

So I went on. It was excellent sport--such a jest as may not be played
every day. I would show Mistress Helene (so I said to myself) whether she
would like it any better if I made love to Katrin than if I went over on
an occasional wet day to clean pistolets and oil French musketoons in
Christian's guard-house.

So I began to tell Katrin how that woman was the sacredest influence on
the life of men, with other things as I could recollect them out of a
book of chivalry which I had been reading, the fine sentiments of which
it was a pity to waste. For our Helene would have stamped her foot and
boxed my ears for coming nigh her with such nonsense (that is, at this
time she would, doubtless--not, however, always). And as for the lass
over the way--Christian's Elsa--she knew no more of letters than her
father knew of the mathematics. Plain kissing was more in her way--as I
have been told.

So I aired my book of chivalry to Katrin Texel.

"Fair maid," said I, "have you heard the refrain of the song that I love
so well? It is like sweet music to me to hear it. I love sweet music.
This is the latest catch:

"'My true love hath my heart and I have his.'

"How goes it, Helene?" I asked, turning to her as she stood smiling
bitterly by the window. For I knew that it would annoy her to be referred
to. "Goes it not something like this?"

And I hummed fairly enough:

"'My true love hath my heart and I have his.'"
***
"And if it goes like that," said she, quickly, "it goeth like a tomcat
mollrowing on the tiles in the middle of the night."

Now this being manifestly only spiteful, I took no notice of her work.
"Helene does not love good music," said I; "'tis her only fault. But I
trust that you, dear Katrin, have a greater taste for angelic song?"

"And I trust you love to scratch upon the twangling zither as cats
sharpen their claws upon the bark of trees? You love such music, _dear_
Katrin, do you not?" cried Helene over her shoulder from the window.

But Katrin, the divine cow, knew not what to make of us. I think she was
of the opinion that Helene and I, with much study upon books, had
suddenly gone mad.

"I do indeed love music," she said at last, uncertainly, "but, Master
Hugo, not the kind of which my gossip, Helene, speaks. I love best of all
a ballad of love, sung sweetly and with a melting expression, as from a
lover by the wall to his mistress aloft in the balcony, like that of him
of Italy, who sings:

"'O words that fall like summer dew on me.'

"How goes it?

"'O breath more sweet than is the growing--the growing--'"

She paused, and waved her hand as if to summon the words from the
empty air.

"'_The growing garlic,'_ if it be a lover of Italy," cried Helene, still
more spitefully. "This is enough and to spare of chivalry, besides which
Hugo hath his lessons to learn for Friar Laurence, or else he will repent
it on the morrow. Come, sweetheart, let us be going. I will e'en convoy
thee home."

So she spoke, making great ostentation of her own superiority and
emancipation from learning, treating me as a lad that must learn his
horn-book at school.

But I was even with her for all that.

"And so farewell, then, dear Mistress Katrin," said I. "The delicate
pleasure of your presence shall be followed by the still more tender
remembrance which, when you are gone, my heart shall continue to
cherish of you."

That was indeed well-minded. A whole sentence out of my romance-book
without a single slip. Katrin bowed, with the airy grace of the Grand
Duke's monument out in the square. But the little Helene swept
majestically off, muttering to herself, but so that I could hear her: "'O
wondrous, most wondrous,' quoth our cat Mall, when she saw her Tom
betwixt her and the moon."

The application of which wise saw is indeed to seek.

So the two maids went away, and I betook me to the window to see if I
could catch a glimpse of Christian's Elsa.

But I only saw Katrin and Helene going gossiping down the street with
their heads very close together.

At first I smiled, well pleased to think how excellently I had played my
cards and how daintily I had worked in those gallant speeches out of the
book of chivalry. But by-and-by it struck me that the Little Playmate was
absent a most unconscionable time. Could it be--Michael Texel? No, that
at least was plainly impossible.

I got up and walked about. Then for a change I paused by the window.

I had stood a good while thus moodily looking out at the casement, when I
became aware of two that walked slowly up the street and halted together
before the great iron-studded door which led to the Red Tower.

By the thirty thousand virgins--Helene and Michael Texel!

And then, indeed, what a coil was I in; how blackly deceitful I called
her! How keenly I watched for any token of understanding and kindness
more than ordinary that might chance to pass between them. But I could
see none, for though the great soft lout of a ruddy beer-vat tried often
to look under the brim of her hat, yet she kept her eyes down--only once,
that I could observe, raising them, and that was more towards the Red
Tower than in the direction of Michael Texel.

I think she wished to see whether I was watching. And when she had noted
me it I wot well that she became much more animated, and laughed and
spoke quickly, with color in her cheeks and a flash of defiance on her
countenance, which were manifestly wasted on such a boastful, callow
blubber-tun as Michael Texel.

Then it was: "Adieu to you, Master Texel!" "Farewell to you, fair maid!"

And Helene dipped a courtesy to him, dainty and sweet enough to conquer
an angel, while the great jelly-bag shook himself almost to pieces in
his eagerness to achieve a masterly bow. All this made me angry, not
that I cared though Helene had coquetted with a dozen lads, an it had
liked her. It was only the poverty of taste shown in being seen in the
open High Street of Thorn along with such an oaf as Michael Texel. He
had first been my friend, it is true, but then at that time I had not
found him out.

By-and-by Helene came up the stairs, tripping light as a feather that the
wind blows. Perhaps, though, she had turned in the doorway, where I could
not see her, to throw the lout a kiss--so I thought within me, jealously.

"You have convoyed your gossip Katrin home in safety, I trust," said I,
sweetly, as she came in.

"Yes," said she; "but I fear she has left her heart behind her. So
wondrously rapid a courtship never did I see!"

"Save on the street," answered I; "and with a pale, soft jack-pudding
like Michael Texel! That was a sight, indeed."

At which Helene laughed a merry little laugh--well-pleased, too, the
minx, as I could see.

"What are courtships on the street to you, Sir Hugo," she returned,
"with your 'Twinkle-Twankle' singing-women over the way, and--Lord,
how went it?

"'My true love hath my heart and I have his.'

"Ha! ha! Sir Gallant, what need you with more? Would you have as many
loves as the Grand Turk, and invent new love-makings for each of them?
Shall we maidens petition Duke Casimir to banish the other lads of the
town and leave only Hugo Gottfried for all of us?"

And then she went on to other such silly talk that I think it not worth
reporting.

Whereupon I was about to leave the room in a transport of just
indignation, and that without speaking, when Helene called to me.

"Hugo!" she said, very softly, as she alone could speak, and that only
when it liked her to make friends.

I turned me about with some dignity, but knowing in my heart that it was
all over with me.

"Well, what may be your will, madam?" said I.

Helene came towards me with uplifted, petitionary eyes.

"You are not going to be angry with me, Hugo!" she said. And she lifted
her eyes again upon me--irresistible, compelling, solvent of dignities,
and able to break down all pride.

O all ye men who have never seen my Helene look up thus at you--but only
common other eyes, go and hang yourselves on high trees for very envy.
Well, as I say, Helene looked up at me. She kept on looking up at me.

And I--well, I hung a moment on my pride, and then--clasped her in my
arms.

"Dear minx, thrice wicked one!" I exclaimed, "wherefore do you torment
me--break my heart?"

"Because," said she, escaping as soon as she had gained her pretty,
rascal way, "you think yourself so clever, Hugo, such an irresistible
person, that you must be forever returning to this window and getting
this book of chivalry by heart. Now you are going to be cross again. Oh,
shame, and with your little sister--

"'That never did you any harm,
 But killed the mice in your father's barn.'"

With such babyish words she talked the frowns off my face, or, when they
would not go fast enough, hastened them by reaching up and smoothing them
away with her finger.

"Now," she said, setting her head to the side, "what a nice sweet Great
Brother! Let him sit down here on the great chair."

So I sat down, well pleased enough, not knowing what mischief the
pranksome maid had now in her head, but judging that the matter might
turn out well for me.

Then Helene stole round to the back of the chair, and, taking me by the
ears, she gave first one and then the other of them a pull.

"That," she said, pulling the right, "is for listening to the little cat
over the way that squalls on the tiles! And _that_" (giving the other a
sound tug) "is for being a dandiprat when my gossip Katrin was here!"

She paused a moment as if to summon courage, and then she stooped quickly
and kissed me on the neck.

"And _that_ for Michael Texel!" she cried, and ran out of the room before
I could get clear of the wide arms of the chair, and so run after and
catch her.

She turned in the doorway and wafted me a kiss from her finger-tips,
airily and a little mockingly.

"That for Hugo Gottfried!" she said, and was off to her own chamber with
the _frou-frou_ of a light skirt, the slam of a door, and the shooting
of a bolt.

And after all this, it was heart's pity that ever anything should have
come between us again, even for a moment.

Though, indeed, it was but for a moment.


CHAPTER XVI

TWO WOMEN--AND A MAN


It was the forenoon of a Sunday, a dull, sleepy time in all countries,
and one difficult to get overpast. I was as usual busy with my
accoutrement, recently bought with the loan of Master Gerard. The Little
Playmate was just returned from the cathedral, and had indeed scarcely
laid her finery aside, when there came a loud knocking at the outer gate
of the Red Tower. Then one of the guard tramped stolidly from the wicket
to the door of our dwelling.

"A lady waits you at the postern," said he, and so tramped his way
unceremoniously back to his post.

I knew without any need of telling that it was the Lady Ysolinde. So I
rose, and hastily setting my fingers through my hair, went to the gate.
There, attended by the respectable servitor, was, as I had expected, the
Lady Ysolinde.

"Good-morrow," she said very courteously to me, and I duly returned her
greeting with a low obeisance of respect and welcome.

She wore a large garment, fashioned like a man's cloak, over her festal
attire--which, with a hood for the head, wholly enveloped her figure and
descended to her feet.

"I have come, as I promised, to see the Little Playmate." These were her
first words as we paced together across the wide upper court under the
wondering eyes of the men of the Duke's body-guard.

"Pray remember, Lady Ysolinde," said I, with much eagerness, "that I
have as yet said nothing of the matter to Helene, and that my father only
knows that I am to ride to Plassenburg in order to exercise myself in the
practice of arms, before becoming his assistant here in the Red Tower and
in the Hall of Judgment across the way."

My visitor nodded a little impatiently. She who knew so many things, of a
surety might be trusted to understand so much without being told.

In the inner doorway Helene met us. And never had it been my fortune to
see the meeting of two such women. The Little Playmate had in her hands
the broidered handkerchiefs, the long Flemish gloves, and the little
illuminated Book of the Hours which I had given her. She had been about
to lay them away together, as is the fashion of women. And when she met
the Lady Ysolinde I declare that she looked almost as tall. Helene was
perhaps an inch or two less in stature than her visitor, but what she
lacked in height she more than made up in the supple erectness of her
carriage and the vivid and extraordinary alertness of all her movements.

"Lady Ysolinde," said I, as they met with the mutually level eyeshot of
women who measure one another, "this is Helene--whom, for love and
kindliness, we of the Wolfsberg call the 'Little Playmate.'"

The daughter of Master Gerard impetuously threw back the gray monk's hood
which shrouded the masses of her tawny hair. She put out both hands to
Helene, held her a moment at arm's-length to look into her eyes, even as
she had done with me, but in a different way. Then, drawing her nearer,
she leaned forward and kissed her on the brow and on both cheeks.

Now I am not ordinarily a close observer, and many things, specially
things that pertain to the acts of women, pass by me unnoticed. But I saw
in a moment that there was not, and never could be, more than the
semblance of cordial amity between these two women.

I noted the Little Playmate instinctively quiver like a taken bird
when she was thus embraced. It was, I think, the undying antipathy of
Eve for Lilith, a hatred which is mostly on the side of Eve, the
Mother-Woman--its place being taken by sharper and more dangerous envy
in the breast of Lilith-without-the wall.

There, face to face, stood the two women who were to make my life, ruling
it between them, as it were, striking it out between the impact of their
natures, as underneath the blows of two smiths upon the ringing anvil the
iron, hissing hot, becomes a sword or a ploughshare.

It was impossible to avoid contrasting them.

Helene, of a bodily beauty infinitely more full of temptation, bloomful
with radiant health, the blush of youth and conscious loveliness upon her
lips and looking out under the crisp entanglement of her hair, all simple
purity and straightness of soul in the fearless innocency of her eyes;
the Lady Ysolinde, deeper taught in the mysteries of existence, more
conscious of power, not so beautiful, but oftentimes giving the
impression of beauty more strongly than her fairer rival, compact of
swift delicate graces, half feline, half feminine (if these two be not
the same). I am thereby freed from a burden which I am often pushed
to the ground, I will at once free of debt, and there is still so much
left that I use for my children still unserved thun can not equal more
than I would have been possible if I Well, the much longer would have
to say. "Wieland then touching letters contained multiple confessions about
his oppressive situation and on the means which he took them through
an extended literary Thätigkeit to improve the almost exceeded his powers.
In terms of its contributions to several pocket books, he wrote: "I am
ashamed that I am by Etourderie, with my whole life had to struggle
through it myself in my seventies too Projects of this kind could
be ravish.

But the sum, which I took to my blos unavoidable expenditure deny standing,
especially in recent years, the proceeds of the goods and rest of my fixed
income in a ratio unproportionirten so that I, to the very substantial
deficit cover , all my powers of proposed had the vacuum = =, the Ceres
and Pales in my bag left by the yield of the fruits of my mind to replace
it.

I felt from time to time that I worked on assets, or at least that
I, if it even longer so would go away, danger, in the sad state of
powerlessness and to weaken Gerath.

But North has no law. The hope, my good without significant damage to be
able to sell, was very low, the burden was on me, always pressing key,
and the danger with poorer every year to be growing.

What position for a Siebzigjährigen from a numerous family, surrounded
by my husband and Sinnesart Constitution! "With Böttiger, who recently
visited before in February 1803 his hotly awaited formerly idyllic life
in Osmanstädt closed, Wieland once again passes through the spacious
garden . Not without emotion, he looked all of his favorite places. A
deep Wehmuth grabbed him when he's in front of the graves and
Dorothea Sophie Brentano stood, and had to be said that he also be
in foreign hands would have to leave behind.

After some silence Wieland said: "I do not trust it to the buyer of my
brave Guts to that place where I once buried next to my wife to Seyn
wish him always sacred and inviolable Seyn will." Wieland It is not
deceived. The new owner of his goods honored the sacred place where the
beloved Todt rested. In a letter from Osmanstädt to the Duchess Amalia had
Wieland is very pleased to see an apartment near the palace of his revered
him dearly princess can relate to.

From the windows of his home, the drama only by a separate garden
apartment, he saw on friendly plants out in which, as he said, the
beloved princess as "the fairies all wohlthätigste Walter." Only the
advantage of a key, he said, it will need to deal with all comfort in
Heaven's address . 'That is for me, "he wrote," any place Seyn
where everything about the beloved and revered princess resides, whose
grace and goodness so condescending wohlthätige sun glances on the
late evening of my life thrown.

"His expectations exceeded benevolent host, Wieland, when he again had
returned to Weimar, where the princess was magnanimous.

They pulled him into their next environment, and expanded the circle of
his older friends with new acquaintances, in which he Fernow, according's
Death Jagemann librarian for the duchess appointed, was one of the
most interesting.

During the summer residence of the princess in Tiefurt Wieland was often
there. How she excelled throughout, proving his place of honor in
the duke box.

His love for the stage on which was some promising talent is unfolded,
there was new food, and he had no longer the victim, with whom he
during his stay in the theatrical enjoyment Osmanstädt had bought
them. pleasing and instructive for him were also the former art
exhibitions at Goethe's and Meier's leadership.

Wieland believed so at least some substitute for found that the von Goethe
published journal: "The Propylaea" for which he vividly interessirt, had
ceased.

Thus, several factors combined to place it in a quiet Gemüthsstimmung
to receive, but by the death of Herder on 18 December 1803 was
violently shaken.

His girlfriend Sophie la Roche, he wrote back then: "It is a great irreplaceable
loss for his family, for the world and to his friends. He was my
best and somehow my only friend in Weimar. I have much to lose him, and
had great cause, even for my own sake to be hoped that he, as considerably
younger man, I would like Altenkirchen survive. Patience and surrender
is what we in such cases is left, and I will surrender this admittedly far
easier than my sense of pain and joy through the 8th November 1801 has
been dulled. However, it is mandatory, for the living as long as
possible, and in the intellectual community enough to know that we are
with our beloved, after our eyes and entschwunden are poor, we still
continue to entertain. The loss of our self-esteem is human, but always
loses it again in the sweet thoughts that they have ausgelitten
that they now probably is, and infinitely better than us.

"In a muffled Hinbrüten artete Wieland's acquiescence in the inevitable
fate of rare , and his Thätigkeit was not paralyzed. Of particular
interest was in his then mood for him the Scripture: "My wife really look
after her death." Their authors, Dr. = = Wötzel, she had the Duke of Weimar
zugeeignet, and she was in a Hofcirkel in which Wieland also found
out, and often discussed. 20 October 1804 Wieland wrote to his
friend and publisher Göschen: "I have been working for several
months at a small works, from what I would major causes and it
therefore must make a condition that is particularly, and as a work
for himself, appeared in bookstores.

The title is: Euthanasia, or talks about life after death, induced
by the script: My wife really look after her death. Euthanasia This will
consist of three or four dialogues exist, of which the first and
largest fully finished.

The whole thing will keep me until the end of this year, employ. "A very
sharp Urtheil Wieland come to in a subsequent letter mentioned earlier
about the font and its author." I think, "he wrote," that the Lord
Doctor or Master Wötzel by my analysis its all about expression and
miserable abgeschmackten Code reputation will be. But he had cause to
encourage me to thank möcht 'I gave him Rathen, in the upcoming exhibition
to raise money to see it. Really would be a hermaphrodite with three
heads, six arms and four legs is not the most remarkable Irrthum
nature, as this kind certainly in his single person, what stupidity,
self-conceit, cleverness, silliness and vacuity in a way that all
psychologists should be to make , are united.

Who should not four pennies to donate such a Mißgeschöpf with eyes
to see!

"With the death of his beloved wife had Wieland predisposition well
received on the connection between the spirit world with the earthly
life upon mature.

He believed in ghosts, but against all appearances to explain must, if it
is the experience of his own life zurückrief. "Had a chance," he wrote,
"that the spirits of the deceased appear to be why I have from my wife,
this loyal soul, and never had an appearance? Why, when our soul ghost
on institutions may be considered, it appears to me every week at least
once a dream, and having conversations with me because they know
how lucky they are unpronounceable me through such a condescension
to human weakness could make?

_kann_ You do not, or they _darf_ not, and why should it not with all the
others have this same Bewandtniß? The direction in which his
mind was made, Wieland had to complete the "Aristipp" almost entirely
disappeared from view, especially as a literary plan that he has
twenty years ago (1790) designed the execution entgegenreifte.

It was a translation of the whole of Cicero's letters.

The work with such difficulties, he dared to overcome.

Welcome to him was this work because it through the impressions of
the political events hinwegtrug.

Joy and sorrow were accessed quickly changing into his life. In November
1804 he was a witness at the marriage ceremony of the then Erbprinzen
(jetztverstorbenen Grand Duke) of Weimar with the Russian Grand
Duchess Maria Paulowna.

The poet who is happy that the drama of events: "the homage of the Arts"
celebration, Wieland had soon afterwards distinguished sehn.

Schiller died on 9 March 1805, and Goethe was dangerously ill. "I can
imagine," wrote the 6th Wieland June 1805 at Göschen "what a sensation
the news of Schiller's death has made in Leipzig. After Herder, and Goethe
as long as we still get is, Germany could not sensitive literature suffer
loss." His own state of health Wieland described in this letter with
the words: "as a strict and almost uninterruptedly continuing in
the winter, I have not experienced for 72 years, and I wonder every
day how it is received, that such a delicate machine, as that of
my existence is linked, such a merciless weather with so little
discomfort, as I mentioned in the That felt this time forth have
been auszudauern wealthy.

"This physical force Wieland had to endure the horrors to which the
Battle of Jena on 14. October 1806 imposed on residents of Weimar.

In the general looting of the residence, he had but at least had cause
for his person and his family to complain.

He received a Sauvegarde, and on behalf Mürats promised him the imperial
immediate protection assured. Deeply shocked by the general unhappiness
and profound regret that he experienced the day, where his princely
Gönnerin their summer residence, the friendly Tiefurt, had to leave, and
for his wife Erbprinz an asylum abroad had need, Wieland began a
few weeks after those horror days, 1 November 1806 referred to his
earlier translation of Cicero's letters to his view of the often
turbulent life of the present decision so distracted that he, after
his own confessions, of everything around him was experiencing, was
not aware.

In relation to the this Uebersetzung difficulties he called it,
especially for an old man of 72 years, a large Wagstück.

"No sooner do I," he wrote, "something else to mention my apology
as _Zeit_ in which, and the _Art_ with which this idea as a daring
Armed has come over me.

I felt then a zwiefaches urgent needs in me, without his direct Stillung
I no longer believed to be endurance. One was: I prefer the more each
from a terribly limiting the presence of a andre world in a time and
among people who no longer were, where possible, louder people of colossal
Titans and Giants move to master - the Other: any large, heavy and
arduous, but with all the pleasant and to my humanities studies suitable
work to which I had hoped that they desire and through my love for the
thing, and by the execution itself necessarily affiliated unvermerkte
increase my strength, perhaps as much likely to succeed, that I
am the world left with the consolation could the last years or days
of my life is not useless to have been brought.

How would I, to meet this dual need, and to achieve this intention,
my good genius a happy intent to keep it as the translation of Cicero's
letters? "in the midst of this employment shook him, after the storms
of war outweigh the news of the death of the Duchess Amalia. On 10 April
1807 was their staunch spirit of the fate which they endure, has
been overwhelmed.

Wieland's entire philosophical steadfastness was Nöthiger to find out
about him for the painful loss of comfort. Happy moments of peace
brought him the news and the arrival of Duke Carl August in their
states.

Wieland but nevertheless took the restless diligence to his translation
of Cicero's letters devoted to non-violence to the temptation of painful
impressions. The Duke of Weimar had given him the friendly Belvedere
on his summer residence instructed. At a moderate hill, opposite
the castle, took place under dark spruces Wieland a favorite spot, where
he soon umherwandelte soon with the Lectüre any Roman or Greek
Classics is employed.

With calm Gleichmuth and taken to the inevitable, he wrote the
November 3, 1809 to his girlfriend Sophie La Roche: "What stands
before us, knows only the sky.

Our future fate is uncertain. How it is decided to be like, I will it to
endure knowing myself and never leave. "Wieland Gleichmuth philosophical
but should soon be shaken. He received the news of the death of his young
girlfriend just mentioned, whose last work," Melusine summer evenings,
"he still revidirt and with a had accompanied preface. "It seems,"
he wrote, "my destiny, everything that I survive what I most loved
and most intimate.

Soon I have, except my mostly far away from my children, nothing to lose.
But the loss, I On November 9, 1801 suffered, I was also against
each other completely jaded.

The world can Seyn satisfied, so extraordinary woman who from her
childhood for this world was far too well, 76 years and 36 years
obsessed with the fruits of her, with her heart completely interwoven
into one and almost grown together humanities enjoyed grateful and
ungrateful to have.

For us, she lives now only insofar as we remember her and that is what
we want. "In a letter dated 8 September 1808 Wieland threw a
retrospect on his career." I have, "he wrote," Although the full 75 years
Gottlob! not shiny, nor made bizarre luck, but also the fate of cardiac
depressive experience, all friends of my youth and my best years to survive.
But I owe demungeachtet of Mother Nature such a happy organization
and Sinnesart, and my good Genius many happy events, such a friendly
and beautiful fabrics of 27593 days (days with the switch included)
that I did not think to deceive, if I am against A cloudy or stormy
day, bringing the Parcae could spare me not, or wanted to fourteen
amused and cheerful as cheerful days of enjoyment of life count as
a mortal, without thörichte Exposures to the skies to make this
imperfect world of life can only ever ask for.

Because for me, the feelings, reflecting a drop of bitterness mixed with
the sweetness, always the most pleasant.

"On the evening of his life was Wieland's fate, whatever it is,
after his own confessions," the gods of the earth as much as possible,
kept away, "it is still in contact with the Emperor of France, as
Napoleon and the then (1808) at the Congress of Erfurt princes
gathered a few days on the court at Weimar staying.

He wanted to see the poet, to him by the previously mentioned prophecy,"
that France's only salvation is based solely on Buonaparte, "had become
strange. Wieland was not just the day at the court. under the pretext of
Unwohlseyns he had an invitation to the ball refused.

An understanding of Voltaire's Julius Caesar, however, lured him into the
evening's theater, where his place in a Seitenloge adopted, otherwise
the Duke einzunehmen used.

When Napoleon learned that Wieland was he there in his simple dress and
a Sammtkäppchen in the main had seen, he asked to the ball repeatedly
after him .

Now there was no else Rath, "Wieland confessed in a letter dated 13
October 1808," when I was in the Hofwagen that I was sent, and to - in
my usual accoutrement = = a Calotte on his head, ungepudert without
scabbard and Tuchstiefeln (incidentally costumirt decency) in the
ballroom to appear.

It was half against eilf clock. Hardly, I was quite a few minutes
there, it was Napoleon from another side of the room to me. The Duchess
präsentirte me himself, and he told me quite affable - the Ordinary by
myself while he's in sharp eye seized. Probably hardly ever has the gift
of a death, a man equally at first sight to understand, in a higher
grade obsessed, as Napoleon.

He saw that I, my tiresome Celebrität spite of a simple, high-bulk, old
man, and since he, as it seemed to always have a good impression on me
wanted to make, so he is instantly transformed into the form in which
Seyn sure he could, his intent to reach. In my life have I no simple,
quiet, gentle and unambitious son of man seen. No trace of the man who
spoke with me, a great monarch to Seyn was aware. He talked with me, like
an old acquaintance with _seines_ peers, and what is still not changing
_meines_ same befall was at one and a half hours in one continuous, and
quite alone, in great astonishment of all present.

Because I am a very inexperienced, schwerzüngiger French Orateur bin,
so it was fortunate for me that he was in the mood was much to talk
about, and the = frais de la conversation = almost solely to be adopted.
It was close to twelve clock, when I finally began to feel that I am
standing could no longer endure.

So I took me a freedom, which is hardly any else together under
German or a Frenchman would.

I asked Se. Majesty, to dismiss me because I did not feel strong enough
to stand longer bearable. He took it very well. Allez donc = =, he said
with a friendly tone and mien, = allez! bon soir! = "In this letter just
said Wieland, so incredibly friendly Napoleon was also against
him, but he missed him, what you call Gemüth, and it occurred to
him sometimes as if the man of bronze.

"However," Wieland said, "I had it but then put that to him quite
frankly, I finally submitted the question of how it come that the
Cultus, which he did in France reformirt, philosophical, and not
the spirit of our time is not adequate had failed.

But even though we set our horses to their speed, it seemed to make no
difference to the unwieldy giant. He merely stretched his legs a little
farther, and caused his great gaskined feet to pass each other as fast as
if they had been shod with seven-league boots. So he not only kept up
with us easily, but oftentimes made a détour through the fields and over
the wild country on either side, as a questing dog does, ever returning
to us with some quaint vagrant fancy or quip of childish simplicity.

But what pleased me better than the appearance of the Lubber Fiend was
that ere we had gone quite two miles out of the city we found two
well-armed and stanch-looking soldiers waiting for us at a kind of
cross-road. They were armed with the curious powder-guns which were
coming into fashion from France. These went off with a noble report, and
killed sometimes at as much as fifteen or twenty paces when the aim was
good. The fellows had swords also, and little polished shields on their
left arms--altogether worthy and notable body-guards.

"These two are soldiers of the Guard from Plassenburg," said the Lady
Ysolinde, "though now they are travelling as members of a Free Company
desiring to enter upon new engagements. But they will make the way easier
and pleasanter for us, as well as infinitely safer, being veterans well
accustomed to the work of quartering and foraging."

As indeed we were to find ere the day ended.

So we rode on in the brilliant light, and the long, long day seemed all
too brief to us who were young, and scarce delivered from the
prison-house of Thorn. And to my shame I admit that my heart rose with
every mile that I put between me and the Red Tower.

Indeed, I hardly had a thought to spend on my father. The hot quadrangle
of the Wolfsberg, ever smelling of horses and the swelter of shed blood,
the howling, fox-colored demons in the kennels, the black Duke Casimir
--right gladly I forgot them all. Aye, I forgot even my father, and
everything save that I was riding with two fair women through a world
where all was love and spring, and where it was ever the prime of a
young morning.

The Lady Ysolinde could not make enough of our Little Playmate. She
laughed back at her over her shoulder when she let her horse out for a
canter. She marvelled loudly at Helene's good riding, and at the
unbound beauty of the crisp ringlets which clustered round her head
like a boy's. And our Helene smiled, well pleased, and ceased to watch
my eyes or to grow silent if I checked my horse too long by the side of
the Lady Ysolinde.

Mostly we three rode abreast over the pleasant country. So long as we
were crossing the plain of the Wolfmark we saw few tilled fields, and
the farm-houses were fewer still. But wherever these were to be seen
they were fortified and defended like castles, and had gates, great and
high, with iron plates upon them and knobs like the points of spears
beaten blunt.

The Lady Ysolinde, who had often ridden that way, told us that these were
all in the Duke Casimir's country, and were mostly possessed by the kin
of his chief captains--feudal tenants, who for the right of possession
were compelled to furnish so many riders to the Duke's Companies.

"But wait," she said, "till you come to the dominions of the Prince of
Plassenburg. You will find that he is indeed a ruler that can make the
broom-bush keep the cow."

So we rode on, and passed pleasant and exciting things, more than I had
ever seen in all my life before.

Once we saw half a dozen men driving cattle across our path, and it was
curious to mark how readily they drew their swords and couched their
lances at us, turning themselves about this way and that like a quintain
till we were quite gone by, which made us laugh. For it seemed a strange
thing that men so well armed should fear a company of no more than their
own numbers, and two of them maids upon palfreys.

But Ysolinde said: "It is not, after all, so strange, for over yonder
blue hills dwells Joan of the Swordhand, who can lead a foray as well as
any man, and once worsted Duke Casimir himself when he beset her castle."

So the day went past swiftly, with good company and the converse of folk
well liking one another. And ever I wondered how we were to spend the
night, and what sort of cheer we should find at our inn.


CHAPTER XIX

WENDISH WIT


The gray plain of the Wolfmark, which we had been traversing ever since
we descended out of the steep Weiss Thor of the city of Thorn, had now
begun to break into ridges and mounded hills of stiff red clay. And I,
who had often kept my watch on the highest pinnacle of the Red Tower,
looked with astonishment back upon the city I had left behind. Seen from
the plain, Thorn had an aspect almost imperial.

It rose above the colorless flat of gray suddenly, unexpectedly, almost
insolently. The city, with its numberless gables, spires of churches,
turreted gate-houses, occupied a ridge of gradually swelling ground which
rose like a huge whale-back from the misty plain. Its walls were grim,
high, and far-stretching. But as we travelled farther into the Wolfmark
the city seemed to sink deeper into the plain and the dark castle of Duke
Casimir to shoot ever higher into the skies. So that presently, as we
looked back, we could only see the Wolfsberg itself, the abode of cruelty
and wrong, standing black against the white sky of noon.

Its flanking towers stood up above the battlemented wall, their turrets
climbing higher and higher towards heaven, till the topmost Red
Tower--that in which my father's garrot was, and in which I had spent my
entire life until this day--soared straight upward above them all, like a
threatening index-finger pointing, not into the clear sky of a summer's
noon, but into clouds and thick darkness.

I was glad when at last we lost sight of it. Then, indeed, I felt that I
had left my old life behind me. And, in spite of the Lady Ysolinde's
ink-pool prophecy and my love for my father (such as it was), I did not
mean ever to trust myself within that baleful circle of gray and weary
plain upon which the Red Tower looked down.

Seeing that the maids were inclined to talk the one with the other, or
rather that the Lady Ysolinde spoke confidentially with Helene, and that
Helene now answered her without embarrassment and with frank, equal
glances, I dropped gradually behind and rode with the two stout
men-at-arms. These I found to be honest lads enough, but of a strangely
reserved and taciturn nature, each ever waiting for the other to
answer--being, like most Wendish men, much averse to questioning and
still more stiff as to replying.

Even his Lord, his princess, the duchess mother not spurned him
under the shade of its trees to be welcomed. The lively exchange of
ideas in numerous discussions, it leads back into the past, had a
lot of Wieland attractions.

Of great interest to him was also the then adequate follow acquaintance
with Jean Paul, of which he is versatile suggested, but, after his own
confessions, even just so often rejected, as felt attracted.

It is common ground one of the most beautiful moments in Wieland's later
life was his teenage girlfriend Wiedersehn Sophie la Roche, 1799 in
Osmannstädt he visited, accompanied by one of her grandchildren, Sophie
Brentano, a sister of the famous poet Clemens Brentano.
"You are men of the country of Plassenburg?" cried I, as loud as I
could bawl.

"We are not deaf--we have all our faculties, praise the saints!" said the
more distant of the two, looking not at me but at his companion. He, on
his part, nodded back at his comrade's reply, as if it had been
delicately calculated at once to answer my question and at the same time
not to commit them to any dangerous opinions.

I tried again.

"Your prince, I hear, is a true man, brave, and well-versed in war?"

The shorter and stouter man, who rode beside me, glanced once at my face,
and slowly screwed round his head to his companion in a long, questioning
gaze. Then as slowly he turned his head back again.

"Umph!" he said, judicially, with a movement of his head, which seemed a
successful compromise between a nod and a shake, just as his remark
might very well have resulted from an attempt to say "Yes" and "No" at
the same time.

This was not encouraging to one who, like myself, was in high spirits and
much inclined for conversation. Even in later times, he often praised the good fortune to be so
witty Cirkeln belongs to which the lively exchange of diverse ideas
for him always the interest of novelty retained.

In a letter from the year 1782 included a complete description of
satisfaction with his situation suited also for his later years.

That letter contained the confessions: "In a desired relief from the public
stores, I live the Muses and myself, a modest but happy life, facilitated
by the grace of my lord, and by the love of many righteous."

The mentioned letter portrayed him at the same time "surrounded by many
to him Theil burgeoning and some still burgeoning family, its existence
on the duplicate and interesting way through the sweet and pleasant
worries rents his father's house in the otherwise very monotonous
life stagnation forbid."

Tactile had him but that he, despite all the money his literary diligence
had doubled when he for the decent maintenance of his family not belonging
wanted to make.

Of fourteen children, his wife was born, lived at that time still eilf.
The advantages, which he so far from his literary works drawn was small.
The most profit he had the publication of the "German Mercury" had
to thank.

For most of his early poetic works, he had a ducat for the printed sheets
must be satisfied. In relation to the fee for his "comical tales" Wieland
confessed to a friend: "Anyone who knows that in France the Reimer
and mediocre novelist Louisd'or least two of the arc to be paid, I laugh,
that the Komische Erzählungen me no longer even fewer have entered,
than five guilders for the bow.

"Somewhat improved Wieland had literärische income through his acquaintance
with a bookseller in Leipzig kingdom to him for the poem" Musarion "a fee
of thirty ducats, and for the" Diogenes of Sinope "had sent fifty.

answered the long man, promptly pounding him on the
back with the butt of his spear. "Hold up, fat Jorian! Let not thy love
of mirth do thee any injury. For thou art a good comrade, and fools were
ever apt to divert thee too much. I have seen thee at this before--that
time we went to Wilna, and the fellow in motley gave thee griping spasms
with his tomfoolery."

Then was I mainly angry, as indeed I had sufficient occasion.

"You are but churls," I said, "and the next thing to knaves. And I will
e'en inform the Prince when we arrive what like are the men whom he sets
to escort ladies to his castle."

But though they were silenter after this, it was not from any alarm at my
words, but simply because they had laughed themselves out of ply. For as
I rode on in high dudgeon, half-way between the women and the
men-at-arms, I could see them with the corner of an eye still nudging
each other with their thumbs and throwing back their heads, and the
breeze blew me scraps of their limited conversation.

"Ho! ho! Good, was it not? 'The Prince hath a Princess, and she--' Ho!
ho! Good!"

The ridges of clay of which I have already spoken continued and increased
in size as we went on. It was a dried-up, speckled, unwholesome-looking
land. And people upon it there were none that we could see. The large
fortified farms had ceased altogether. A certain frightful monotony
reigned everywhere. Ravines, like cracks which the sun makes in mud, but
a thousand times greater, began to split the hills perpendicularly to
their very roots. The path wound perilously this way and that among them.
And presently Jorian and Boris rode past me to take the lead, for
Ysolinde and Helene were inclined to mistake the way as often as they
came to the crossing and interweaving of the intricate paths.

And as these two jolly jackasses rode past at my right side I could see
the thumb of long Boris curving towards the ribs of his companion, and
the shoulders of both shaking as they chuckled.

"A rare simpleton's question, i' faith, yes. Ho! ho! Good!" they
chorussed. "'The Prince hath a Princess'--the cock hath a hen, and she--
Ha! ha! Good!"

At that moment I could with pleasure have slain Jorian and Boris for
open-mouthed, unshaven, slab-sided Wendish pigs, as indeed they were.

Yet, had I done so, we had fared but ill without them. For had they been
a thousand times jackasses and rotten pudding-heads (as they were), at
least they knew the way and something of the unchristian people among
whom we were going.

And so in a little while, as we wound our way along the face of these
perilons rifts in the baked clay, with the mottled, inefficient river
feeling its way gingerly at the bottom of the buff--colored ravine, what
was my astonishment to see Jorian and Boris turn sharply at right angles
and ride single file up one of the dry lateral cracks which opened, as it
were, directly into the hill-side!

They did this without ever looking at the landmarks, like men who are
anyways uncertain of their road. But, on the contrary, they wheeled
confidently and rode jauntily on, and we three meekly followed, having
by this time lost the Lubber Fiend, the devil doubtless knew where.
For we must have followed Boris and Jorian unquestioningly had they
led us into the bowels of the earth, as indeed, at first sight, they
seemed to be doing.


CHAPTER XX

THE EARTH-DWELLERS OF NO MAN'S LAND


Then presently we came to a strange place, the like of which I have never
seen, save here on the borders of the Mark and the northern Wendish
lands. An amalgam of lime, or binding stuff of some sort, had glued the
clay of the ravines together, and set it stiff and fast like dried
plaster. So, as we went up the narrow, perilous path, our horses had to
tread very warily lest, going too near the edge, they should chip off
enough of the foothold to send themselves and their riders whirling
neck-over-toes to the bottom.

All at once the Little Playmate, who was riding immediately before me,
screamed out sharp and shrill, and I hastened up to her, thinking she had
fallen upon a misfortune. I found her palfrey with ears pricked and
distended nostril, gazing at a head in a red nightcap which was set out
of a hole in the red clay.

"The country of gnomes! Of a surety, yes! And hitherto I had thought it
had been but the nonsense of folk-tales!" said I to myself.

Which is what we shall say one day of more things than
red-nightcapped heads.

But the Little Playmate uttered scream after scream, for the head
continued coolly to stare at her, as if fixed alive over the gateway by
the craft of some cave-dwelling imp of the Red Axe.

I noticed, however, that the head chewed a straw and spat, which I
deemed a gnome would not do--though wherefore straws and spitting are
not free to gnomes I do not know and could not have told. Yet, at all
events, such was my belief. And a serviceable one enough it was, since
it took the fear out of me and gave me back my speech. And when a man
can speak he can fight. Contrariwise, it is when a woman will not fight
that she can talk best, as one may see in any congress of two angry
vixens. So long as they rail there is but threatening and safe
recriminations, but when one waxes silent, then 'ware nails and teeth!
And I am _not_ in my dotage to use such illustrations--as not
unnaturally sayeth the first to read my history.

"Good man," cried I, to Sir Red Cap in the wall, "I know not why you
stick your ugly head out of the mud, but retract it, I pray you! For do
you not see that it alarms the lady and affrights her beast?"

The man nodded intelligently, but went on coolly chewing his straw.

Then I went up to him, and, as civilly as I could, took him by the chin
and thrust his head back into the hole. And as I did so I saw for the
first time that the wall of the clay cliff, tough and gritty with its
alloy of lime, had been cut and hewn into houses and huts having doors of
wood of exactly the same color, and in some cases even windows with
bars--very marvellous to see, and such as I have never witnessed
elsewhere. Presently, at the trampling of the feet of so many horses,
people began to throng to their doors, and children peered out at windows
and cried to each other shrilly: "See the Christians!"

For so, being but lately pagans themselves, if not partly so to this
day, these outlandish men of the border No Man's Land denominated us of
the south.

Presently we came to an open space sloping away from the sheer cliff,
where was a wall and a door greater than the others.

Jorian rode directly up to the gate, which was of the same dull
brick-red as the rest of the curious town. He took the butt of his lance
and thumped and banged lustily upon it. For a time there was no reply,
but the number of heads thrust out at neighboring windows and the swarms
of townsfolk on the pathways before and behind us enormously increased.

Jorian thundered again, kicking with his foot and swearing explosively in
mingled Wendish and German. Then he took the point of his spear, and,
setting it to a hole in the wall above his head, he hooked out an entire
wooden window-frame, as one is taught to pull out a shrimp with a pin on
the shore of the Baltic Sea.

Whereupon a sudden outcry arose within the house, and a head popped
angrily out of the aperture so suddenly created. But as instantly it
returned within. For Jorian tossed the lattice to the ground by the door
and thrust his spear-head into the cravat of red which the man had about
his throat, shouting to him all the while in the name of the Prince, of
the Duke, of the Emperor, of the Archbishop, of all potentates, lay and
secular, to come down and open the gates. The man in the red cravat was
threatened with the strappado, with the water-torture, with the
brodequins, and finally with the devil's cannon--which, according to our
man-at-arms, was to be planted on the opposite bank of the ravine, and
which would infallibly bring the whole of their wretched town tumbling
down into the gulf like swallows' nests from under the eaves.

And this last threat seemed to have more weight than all the rest,
probably because the Prince of Plassenburg had already done something of
the kind to some other similar town, and the earth-burrowers of Erdborg
had good reason to fear the thunder of his artillery.

At all events, the great door opened, and a man of the same brick-red as
all the other inhabitants of the town appeared at the portal. He bowed
profoundly, and Jorian addressed him in some outlandishly compounded
speech, of which I could only understand certain oft-recurring words, as
"lodging," "victualling," and "order of the Prince."

So, presently, after a long, and on the side of our escort a stormy,
conference, we were permitted to enter. Our horses were secured at the
great mangers, which extended all along one side; while, opposite to the
horses, but similar to their accommodation in every respect, were stalls
wherein various families seemed to be encamped for the night.

With all the air of a special favor conferred, we were informed that we
must take up our quarters in the middle of the room and make the best of
the hardened floor there. This information, conveyed with a polite wave
of the hand and a shrug of the shoulders by our landlord, seemed not
unnaturally to put Jorian and Boris into a furious passion, for they drew
their swords, and with a unanimous sweep of the hand cleared the capes of
their leathern jacks for fighting. So, not to be outdone, I drew my
weapon also, and stood by to protect Helene and the Lady Ysolinde.

These two stood close together behind us, but continued to talk
indifferently, chiefly of dress and jewels--which surprised me, both in
the strange circumstances, and because I knew that Helene had seen no
more of them than the valueless trinkets that had belonged to my mother,
and which abode in a green-lined box in the Red Tower. Yet to speak of
such things seems to come naturally to all women.

As if they had mutually arranged it "from all eternity," as the clerks
say, Jorian and Boris took, without hesitation, each a door on the
opposite wall, and, setting their shoulders to them, they pushed them
open, and went within sword in hand, leaving me alone to protect the
ladies and to provide for the safety of the horses.

Presently out from the doors by which our conductors had entered there
came tumbling a crowd of men and women, some carrying straw bolsters and
wisps of hay, others bearing cooking utensils, and all in various
_dishabille._ Then ensued a great buzzing and stirring, much angry
growling on the part of the disturbed men, and shrill calling of women
for their errant children.

Our little Helene looked sufficiently pitiful and disturbed as these
preparations were being made. But the Lady Ysolinde scarcely noticed
them, taking apparently all the riot and delay as so much testimony to
the important quality of such great ones of the earth as could afford to
travel under the escort of two valiant men-at-arms.

Presently came Jorian and Boris out at a third door, having met somewhere
in the back parts of the warren.

They came up to the Lady Ysolinde and bowed humbly.

"Will your ladyship deign to choose her chamber? They are all empty.
Thereafter we shall see that proper furniture, such as the place affords,
is provided for your Highness."

I could not but wonder at so much dignity expended upon the daughter of
Master Gerard, the lawyer of Thorn. But Ysolinde took their reverence as
a matter of course. She did not even speak, but only lifted her right
hand with a little casual flirt of the fingers, which said, "Lead on!"

Then Jorian marshalled us within, Boris standing at the door to let us
pass, and bringing his sword-blade with a little click of salute to the
perpendicular as each of us passed. But I chanced to meet his eye as I
went within, whereat the rogue deliberately winked, and I could plainly
see his shoulders heave. I knew that he was still chewing the cud of his
stale and ancient jest: "The Prince hath a Princess, and she--"

I could have disembowelled the villain. But, after all, he was
certainly doing us some service, though in a most provocative and
high-handed manner.


CHAPTER XXI

I STAND SENTRY


There are (say some) but two things worth the trouble of making in the
world--war and love. So once upon a time I believed. But since--being
laid up during the unkindly monotony of our Baltic spring by an ancient
wound--I fell to the writing of this history, I would add to these two
worthy adventures--the making of books. Which, till I tried my hand at
the task myself, I would in no wise have allowed. But now, when the days
are easterly of wind and the lashing water beats on the leaded lozenges
of our window lattice, I am fain to stretch myself, take up a new pen,
and be at it again all day.

But I must e'en think of them that are to read me, and of their pain if I
overstretch my privilege. Besides, if I prove over-long in the wind they
may not read me at all, which, I own it, would somewhat mar my purpose.

I was speaking, therefore, of being in the watch and ward of two women,
each of whom (in my self-conceit I thus imagined it) certainly regarded
me without dislike. God forgive me for thinking so much when they had
never plainly told me! Nevertheless I took the thing for granted, as it
were. And, as I said before, it has been my experience that, if it be
done with a careful and delicate hand, more is gained with women by
taking things for granted than by the smoothest tongue and longest
Jacob-and-Rachael service. The man who succeeds with good women is the
man who takes things for granted. Only he must know exactly what things,
otherwise I am mortally sorry for him--he will have a rough road to
travel. But to my tale.

Jorian ushered Ysolinde and Helene into the rooms from which he had so
unceremoniously ousted the former tenants. How these chambers were
lighted in the daytime I could not at first make out, but by going to the
end of the long earth-hewn passage and leaning out of a window the
mystery was made plain. The ravine took an abrupt turn at this point, so
that we were in a house built round an angle, and so had the benefit of
light from both sides.

"And where are our rooms to be?" I asked of the stout soldier when
he returned.

Jorian pointed to the plain, hard earth of the passage.

"That is poor lodging for tired bones!" I said; "have they no other rooms
to let anywhere in this hostelry?"

He laughed again; indeed, he seemed to be able to do little else whenever
he spoke to me.

"Tired bones will lie the stiller!" said he, at last, sententiously.
"There is some wheaten straw out there which you can bring in for a
bolster, if you will. But I think it likely that we shall get no more
sleep than the mouse in the cat's dining-room this night. These border
rascals are apt to be restless in the dark hours, and their knives prick
most consumedly sharp!"

With that he went out, leaving the doors into the passages all open, and
presently I could hear him raging and rummaging athwart the house,
ordering this one to find him "Graubunden fleisch," the next to get him
some good bread, and not to attempt to palm off "cow-cake" upon honest
soldiers on pain of getting his stomach cut open--together with other
amenities which occur easily to a seasoned man-at-arms foraging in an
unfriendly country.

Then, having returned successful from this quest, what was my admiration
to see Jorian (whom I had so lately called, and I began to be sorry for
it, a Wendish pig) strip his fine soldier's coat and hang it upon a peg
by the door, roll up his sleeves, and set to at the cooking in the great
open fireplace with swinging black crooks against the front wall, while
Boris stood on guard with a long pistolet ready in the hollow of his arm,
and his slow-match alight, by the doorway of the ladies' apartment.

I went and stood by the long man for company. And after a little he
became much more friendly.

"Why do you stand with your match alight?" I asked of him after we had
been a while silent.

"Why, to keep a border knife out of Jorian's back, of course, while he is
turning the fry in the pan," said he, as simply as if he had said that
'twas a fine night without, or that the moon was full.

"I wish I could help," I sighed, a little wistfully, for I wished him to
think well of me.

"What!" he exclaimed--"with the frying-pan? Well, there is the basting
ladle!" he retorted, and laughed in his old manner.

I own that, being yet little more than a lad, the tears stood in my eyes
to be so flouted and made nothing of.

"I will show you perhaps sooner than you think that I am neither a coward
nor a babe!" I said, in high dudgeon.

And so went and stood by myself over against the farther door of the
three, which led from the outer hall to the apartments in which I could
hear the murmur of women's voices. And it was lucky that I did so. For
even as I reached the door a sharp cry of terror came from within, and
there at the inner portal I caught sight of a narrow, foxy, peering
visage, and a lean, writhing figure, prone like a worm on its belly. The
rascal had been crawling towards Helene's room, for what purpose I know
not. Nor did I stop to inquire, for, being stung by the taunt of the
man-at-arms, I was on Foxface in a moment, stamping upon him with my
iron-shod feet, and then lifting him unceremoniously up by the slackness
of his back covertures, I turned him over and over like a wheel, tumbling
him out of the doorway into the outer hall with an astonishing clatter,
shedding knives and daggers as he went.

It was certainly a pity for the fellow that Boris had taunted me so
lately. But the abusing of him gave me great comfort. And as he whirled
past the group at the fire, Jorian caught him handily in the round of his
back with a convenient spit, also without asking any questions, whereat
the fellow went out at the wide front door by which we had first entered,
revolving in a cloud of dust. And where he went after that I have no
idea. To the devil, for all I care!

But Boris, standing quietly by his own door, was evidently somewhat
impressed by my good luck. For soon after this he came over to me. I
thought he might be about to apologize for his rudeness. And so perhaps
he did, but it was in his own way.

"Did you spoil your dagger on him?" he said, anxiously, for the first
time speaking to me as a man speaks to his equal.

"No," said I, "but I stubbed my toe most confoundedly, jarring it upon
the rascal's backbone as he went through the door."

"Ah!" he replied, thoughtfully, nodding his head, "that was more fitting
for such as he. But you may get a chance at him with the dagger yet or
the night be over."

And with that he went back to his door, blowing up his slow-match
as he went.

Presently the supper was pronounced cooked, and, after washing his hands,
Jorian resumed his coat, amid the universal attention of the motley crew
in the great hall, and began to dish up the fragrant stew. Ho had been
collecting for it all day upon the march, now knocking over a rabbit with
a bolt from his gun, now picking some leaves of lettuce and watercress
when he chanced upon a running stream or a neglected garden--of which
last (thanks to Duke Casimir and his raiders) there were numbers along
the route we had traversed.

Then, when he had made all ready, our sturdy cook dished the stew into a
great wooden platter--rabbits, partridges, scraps of dried flesh, bits of
bacon for flavoring, fresh eggs, vegetables in handfuls, all covered with
a dainty-smelling sauce, deftly compounded of milk, gravy, and red wine.

Then Jorian and Boris, one taking the heap of wooden platters and the
other the smoking bowl of stew, marched solemnly within. But before he
went, Boris handed me his pistolet without a word, and the slow-match
with it. Which, as I admit, made me feel monstrously unsafe. However, I
took the engine across my arm and stood at attention as I had seen him
do, with the match thrust through my waistband.

Then I felt as if I had suddenly grown at least a foot taller, and my joy
was changed to ecstasy when the Lady Ysolinde, coming out quickly, I knew
not at first for what purpose, found me thus standing sentinel and
blowing importantly upon my slow-match.

"Hugo," she said, kindly, looking at me with the aqua-marine eyes that
had the opal glints in them, "come thy ways in and sit with us."

I made her a salute with my piece and thanked her for her good thought.

"But," said I, "Lady Ysolinde, pray remember that this is a place of
danger, and that it is more fitting that we who have the honor to be your
guards should dine together without your chamber doors."

"Nay," she said, impetuously, "I insist. It is not right that you, who
are to be an officer, should mess with the common soldiers."

"My lady," said I, "I thank you deeply. And it shall be so, I promise
you, when we are in safety. But let me have my way here and now."

She smiled upon me--liking me, as I think, none the worse for my
stiffness. And so went away, and I was right glad to see her go. For I
would not have lost what I had gained in the good opinion of these two
men-at-arms--no, not for twenty maidens' favors.

But in that respect also I changed as the years went on. For of all
things a boy loves not to be flouted and babyfied when he thinks himself
already grown up and the equal of his elders in love and war.

So in a little while came out Jorian and Boris, and, having carried in
the bread and wine, we three sat down to the remains of the stew.
The Oberconsistorialrath sack in Berlin, where he had zugeeignet this
work, he demanded urgently, "the annoyances to complain that the
light-loving Witzlinge served." A mild tone, but a peculiar mystical
direction was predominantly in a number of "anthems" Wieland, from where
he later only the "hymn to God" in his works started.

With his memories of a friend "after the content was related Wieland"
Timoklea, "a fruit of his philosophical studies, especially of Plato
and Lectüre Shaftsbury. Wieland's "Platonic Reflections on the
People" also thanked those studies originated. In both these writings,
as in two essays, which he himself called "visions" described in
the "face of Mirza" and in the face of a world of innocent people,
"said Wieland with poignant warmth of virtue, beauty and love in
noblest sense of the word.

In his announcement of a Dunciade for the Germans ", he undertook
a critical campaign against Gottsched, the then leader of the
aesthetic taste and against his supporters.

The irritability of his passionate nature, he sank back into a kind
of bracing the mind, sometimes a very high level reached.

"I verschlummere", 1756, he wrote a friend, "my will resist a large
portion of my existence. I feel that my body is weak, and that both
my eyes very stupid, as my brain to thinking beings often fail.
Sometimes I wish that I am half a dozen souls had better mood, which would
subordinirt of mine, and after all that my senses had exported I can
not. Likewise requests are almost everything to me by my former youthful
vitality is left. "Wieland His gloom was snatched as he is yet to Bodmer
and his friends dealing gradual extended limited. Inclined than before
he was returned to the pleasures of social life. Besides the well-known
fable from poet Meyer Knonau included Gessner, author of the Idylls,
later also Zimmermann, author of the famous book about the loneliness,
to Wieland's familiar friends.

Women's wrong with it little room, he was even dealing entirely averse.
His beloved Sophie had spoiled him, the female sex to make claims
that are not every girl could meet. In a kind of self-description says
Wieland, his heart, despite all its faults, is still the best
in him.

At Zimmermann, he wrote about: "You may not much good thinking of my heart,
not the cheating. What you call my genius, are very irritable fibers and
a subsequent arising of sensations vivacity, imagination, Activity,
boldness, passion for the marvelous, for debauchery and the like deserve
this, that I highly eighth, or that I even imagine that something?
Certainly not, but I thank God that I get from youth to the truth, loved,
and for what good, legally and morally beautiful, was very sensitive.

This is for me very happy, but I felt it with many thousands of you, so
there is nothing Exquisite. That I am a hypochondriac, I understand. I'm
weak in the That, however, still full of life. I love more the prospects
of another, as in this life. Here I am only par Devoir = = not = par
inclination =.

"This bleak view of life returned to him many times. Only mature years,
greater experience and a thorough Menschenkenntniß world and brought a
strange change in Wieland's system.

He seemed cheerful voted. His aversion women had lost, and the Platonism
in love, he paid homage not necessarily more so than before. Even his
harsh and unfair Urtheil on several ancient and modern poets, he took
back. On his own literary products that had the sense to change wohlthätigsten
influence.

He works with his beurtheilte sicht loose after rigor. His novel "Araspes
and PANTHEA," what a story it's the substance Xenophon had presented,
he cited in one of his letters was "an immature and unfinished birth."
Antheil, he decided on the German stage. He stayed busy theatrical
performances of the Ackermann's actors, which at that time (1757)
through the tribulations of the seven-year war, expelled from
Germany, some time in Switzerland and especially in Zurich was
staying.

In his tragedy "Johanna Gray" Wieland made the first dramatic attempt.
Instead of the Alexandrine, the hitherto generally accepted Versmaßes, he
chose the fünffüßigen Jambes for his tragedy.

It was on 20 July 1758 for the first time in Winterthur, and later also at
other places not listed applause. Even in other genres of poetry
then tried Wieland. Promised much, it is especially from an epic poem, for
what he one of his favorite writers, Zacharia in Brunswick, had presented
the substance, whereas in the design of his ideal, perhaps Friedrich
II in mind, who was then at war with all of Europe by size of Mind and
the brightest features even his enemies Bewundrung abnöthigte. His
"Cyrus," as proposed by Wieland's poem meant to eighteen songs should
be extended. Even his familiar friends Wieland had concealed his plan.
However, when he at the beginning of the year 1758 the execution of his
poetic idea began, he discovered many difficulties and feared at one company
dared to have, to which he was unable to cope.

In one of his former letters Wieland said, "because it is too deep below a
hero, worthy of him to represent them." Even the style and the Versification
cost him, after his own confessions, unspeakable trouble. He felt that he
has more in the range of his ideas, as in the real world lived. A
thorough study of the history and politics, he held to be essential to his
work to the highest degree of perfection to give. Studirte he
diligently Machiavelli's and Montesquieu's works. Also, the Lectüre of
Plato's Republic employed him. The result of these studies
was Wieland's first policy document: "Reflections on the patriotic dream,
to rejuvenate the Confederation."

This correspondence was published, while Wieland is still busy with
his "Cyrus" employed. A newly emerging idea that threatened to
interrupt epic.

By Lucian and Swift excited Wieland designed the plan to a satirical novel.
Under the title: "Lucian's true stories of the disciples, he wanted
this, volumes calculated on three plants two republics, a state expert
bees, the strange government, manners and customs of a people, pagodas,
and a similar story of wonderful things.

The execution of this idea carried. From his "Cyrus", however, he had
the first five songs nearly completed, and at greater Gemüthsruhe this
would work even faster advanced Seyn. What distressed him greatly,
was the concern for his distant subsistence in Zurich.

His former pupils had other provisions, and Wieland had therefore to
his own future. For a time he employed the idea of publishing a weekly,
from whose income he live in Zurich to be hoped. In one of his former
letters Wieland said he wanted all his forces together, so that the
periodic letters to the highest perfection. But his finest hours, he
said, but belonged to the "Cyrus". To log in undisturbed solitude
with this poem to be able to employ, he came to the idea again in his
Heimath to go. A specific life plan, he seemed to return to the parental
home is not linked to.

The desire to complete a few years in leisure and independence to live,
made him indifferent to several requests for Theil vortheilhafte to
external training. Longer time fluctuated Wieland whether he should go
to Marseilles, where in the very prestigious family Semandi teaching
ertheilen.

His indecision was propagated by an application by a carpenter, who the
Lord Rathscheck v.

Sinner in Bern for educators of his only son had recommended. His reception
in Berne, where he was on 13 June 1759 came, in all respects exceeded its
expectations. However comfortable with him the new situations, in which
he took was not for long. He loved the solitude too much, in order for
them to find replacements in society circles, in which he opposed his will
was drawn into it.

Unmuthig said he complained about in several letters. But his teaching
posts are not comfortable with him.

For teaching, especially in the first elements, it seemed a ghost is not
created, which, as Wieland himself said, "think of the Cyrus, and
Shaftsbury, Diderot and Rousseau wanted to compete."

Already a quarterly basis, in September 1759, he gave his tutor agency
again. A type of source was opened by Wieland philosophical lectures,
which he calls "against an annual fee of 200 crowns" some youths from
prominent families held.

He believes in freedom and won a lot of time, since those lectures
him only two hours a day at times. Demungeachtet moved repeatedly
mentioned his epic, the "Cyrus" slowly continued. Entmuthigt by the
small applause, which he found mitgetheilten samples, he designed the
plan to a philosophical poem about the farming. The execution, however,
carried.

The only product that he during his stay in Berne completed, it was
with great applause listed Trauerspiel "Clementine from Porretta."

From his favorite writers Richardson Wieland had the substance to
this tragedy geschöpft. A hero, as Grandison had many others before
him interessiren at a time when the feeling it had taken a
love that just as platonic as ever, and no less swarms was normal.

Bernerin A charming, Mariane Rock, had long been the Queen of his heart,
as Bondeli Julie, the daughter of a Diakonus in Berne, her victory was
in dispute. Julie was credible testimonies and their surviving portrait
in Lavater's physiognomy, according to one of the ugly sex. Regarding
the nature of stimuli, however, it failed, she had her spiritual gifts
abundantly remunerated. The learned men of their time recognized this,
and stood with her correspondence. The rumor said of her, that she read
and studirt more than any woman room, and with extensive knowledge
in the diverse scientific disciplines is a very real Urtheil connect.

It felt Wieland not deceived, when curiosity drove him to get to know.
From the exciting impression that Julie made to him, he exchanged several
letters accountability. "Never did I," he wrote in another, "a woman's
view room, which is an extraordinary equality of Gemüthsart where heitersten
humor and the greatest moral Simplicität, which only in their age
seems possible, more vitality and inexhaustible resources in dealing
would have been as they.

In these plays Sophie is still behind her, as Julie in the intention
behind the beauty is Sophie'n. of the enlightened mind that I ever
seen a woman's room had a heart and that is worthy of the noblest
friendship is. "In a later letter Wieland confessed that Julie no idea,
yet the feeling of love to have appeared in novels and tragedies conquer.
They wanted to have friends, they think the friendship of a sensible
and lasting love, and because they are not otherwise loved Seyn
wanted, so they hate everything the appearance of an extravagant,
fanatical passion wear.

"I myself," Wieland said, "I, as I believe, in the intention of love only
in my way and I am proud enough to think that my kind of love to love the
ghost really come as close as it the Moon is possible.

I love all the truly virtuous women just as much as I would love
to virtue, if they would be visible.

These are not Großsprechereien.

If the wisdom, virtue, moral Venus, a female shape, it must admittedly
the Instinct to us about these sweet creatures attracts, among the
pure spiritual love mixing the spirit of our true beauty, good and
of course, is sublime.

But it is my privilege that, if my subject is a Julie (but not like
Julie the daughter of Augustus), the love of the angels is natural and
casual way of thierischen behaves like a globe for a sun dove. "
Wieland said that letters have the characteristic utterance of: "We
have agreed that each of the other after his own, his natural way,
without the least compulsion would love - I am with enthusiasm,
because my nature is so with it, without enthusiasm from the same
reason.

I weissagte her, she would still be as good enthusiast than I, he doubted
it and said she would like it to me to be happy. "Lively Wieland often
dealt with the idea of a bond of marriage .

He admitted everything in the world, which is not consistent with the
principles of legal disputes, safe tuna to want if he is to Julien's
possession could.

"You would," he wrote, "I am ineffably happy.

But I do not see any possibility.

I would have a very decent and beneficial nature etablirt Seyn if I should
be entitled Seyn such a Prätension to do, and so far seems to be no such
an establishment. " What is limited wishes Wieland, described it
in one of his former letters with the words: "I'm not done what we
call world.

All of her plagues inner delight are for me, although out of habit I
suppose it Antheil and happily it seemed . freedom, leisure,
loneliness, a friend and a girlfriend with me - that is the situation
after me thirsty, and I never will arrive. "Zopfingen The town, situated
in the canton of Bern, Wieland's friends held for the appropriate
place to, as he was willing at that time, a book with a printing
company affiliated bookstore building.

While he was in this way a decent maintenance to give hope, he wanted
both to the formation of his contemporaries vigorously waving by publishing
interesting articles, to which he vorzüglich Uebersetzungen the Classics,
of Virgil, Horace, Xenophon, Theokrit including its Liebligsschriftsteller
calculated. Also by several pieces of fine literature and philosophy he
hoped the interest of the audience to captivate. The better minds of
Germany for a periodic letters to win, was a thought that even before
that, he appeared again. Wieland wanted in that journal in the other a
painting of the human design, according to the different Nüancen, which
he by the climate, religion, state establishment, etc. do, he wanted
to show that man should be, and that most legislators and moralists to
so far in this art, not even probably would have understood.
Also Biographieen and characteristics of excellent men should
Alterthums in his journal a place. A number of essays, which he intended
for his journal, was drawn Wieland Theil and some plan designed
as a letter to his mother with him the message to a particular job
Biberach surprised.

His hometown, which he had separated eight years in which he initiated
sphere as much as possible to benefit, was the firm resolve with which
Wieland on 20 March 1760 to Switzerland and his friends left there, in
grateful remembrance of the return happy years, he in their midst had
verlebt.

Painful it was before all of the farewell to Julie Bondeli. Only the
hope of their property could comfort him. With no bright colors Wieland
had, before his departure from Switzerland, some of his friends the
conditions outlined, which it in his hometown expected. For the first
time he had, this is so alien to its nature was to play a role in
the many political Intrigue, the election of a mayor in Biberach
unfruitful.

Wieland had quite the body of a lucrative office directors receive.
Apart from the fact that this Office is not equal to inclinations,
he was afraid after those two years back to lose body through a
lengthy process between the Protestant and Catholic members of his
father Rathscheck city.

From the Wankelmuth his friends and patrons Wieland made the dull
experience. Several of his former letters touching confessions contained
his uncertain situation and by his fierce emotions very shaken health.
With pain seized him often recurring idea what he was in a different
position, in relationships that the Muses would be cheaper, would
afford them.

In a letter dated 16 March 1763 Wieland said: "I would sometimes
Satyr against the world write best when I consider that no other
place in the world for me Seyn should, as a town, duck and Consul
Mr.

Rath's office in this small Swabian town of Empire.

Because it is not yet decided which of these three persons who are about
equally good for me, I will still have to imagine. "In this sad situation
often occurs the memory of the past and to his residence in
Switzerland prior to Wieland's soul.

Restless thought he means to get out to those who, his inclinations were
so little, and his unspeakable annoyances prepared. Sometimes the idea
came to him for a professorship at a grammar school in Berlin,
Wroclaw, Gotha, or other important places to apply.

The income from such a body, said Wieland, although would be low, but he
had more leisure gegönnt, and he could work, what he wanted. Even the
scant time given to it in Biberach treat his office, he could not
so useful, as he probably wanted to be used. Everywhere he met with obstacles
that are contrary to its higher education provided. On the painful
feeling in his hometown for the lack of a major library. "Here are
my talents for the audience is lost," Wieland complained in a letter to
Zimmermann. "Under such diversions, in such an office, without
encouragement, what can I thun?

If I have time and Gemüthsruhe and had enough courage to do something
about it, it prohibits me the only fact that we do not have libraries,
of all companies importance. genöthigt I am always made myself
herauszuspinnen.

Now I tell you when an enemy is whispering unseen without,
rustling like rats in straw, and you wonder at what point they will break
in next, thinking all the while of the woman you love (or do not yet
love, but may) in the chamber behind--I tell you a castle is something
less difficult to hold at such a time than just one's own breath.

Suddenly I heard a sound in the outer chamber which I knew the meaning
of. It was the shifting of horses' feet as they turn in narrow space to
leave their stalls. Our good friends were making free with our steeds.
And, if we were not quick about it, we should soon see the last of them,
and be compelled to traverse the rest of the road to Plassenburg upon our
own proper feet.

"Jorian," cried I, "do you hear? They are slipping our horses out of the
stalls! Shall you and I make a sortie against them, while Boris with that
pistol of his keeps the passage from the wicks of the middle door?"

"Good!" answered Jorian. "Give the word when you are ready."

With axe in my right hand, the handle of the door in my left, I gave
the signal.

"When I say 'Three!' Jorian!"

"Good!" said Jorian.

Clatter went the horses' hoofs as they were being led towards the door.

"One! Two! Three!" I counted, softly but clearly.


CHAPTER XXIV

THE SORTIE


The door was open, and the next I mind was my axe whirling about my head
and Jorian rushing out of the other door a step ahead of me, with his
broadsword in his hand. I cannot tell much about the fight. I never could
all my days. And I wot well that those who can relate such long
particulars of tales of fighting are the folk who stood at a distance and
labored manfully at the looking on--not of them that were close in and
felt the hot breaths and saw the death-gleam in fierce, desperate eyes,
near to their own as the eyes of lovers when they embrace. Ah, Brothers
of the Sword, these things cannot be told! Yet, of a surety, there is a
heady delight in the fray itself. And so I found. For I struck and warded
not, that being scarce necessary. Because an axe is an uncanny weapon to
wield, but still harder to stand against when well used. And I drove the
rabble before me--the men of them, I mean. I felt my terrible weapon
stopped now and then--now softly, now suddenly, according to that which I
struck against. And all the while the kitchen of the inn resounded with
yells and threatenings, with oaths and cursings.

But Jorian and I drove them steadily back, though they came at us again
and again, with spits, iron hooks, and all manner of curious weapons.
Also from out of the corners we saw the gleaming, watchful eyes of a dark
huddle of women and children. Presently the clamorous rabble turned tail
suddenly and poured through the door out upon the pathway, quicker than
water through a tide-race in the fulness of the ebb.

And lo! in a moment the room was sucked empty, save only for the huddled
women in the corners, who cried and suckled their children to keep them
still. And some of the wounded with the axe and the sword crawled to them
to have their ghastly wounds bound. For an axe makes ugly work at the
best of times, and still worse on the edges of such a pagan fight as we
three had just fought.

So we went back victorious to our inner doors.

Then Jorian looked at me and nodded across at Boris.

"Good!" was all that he said. But the single word made me happier than
many encomiums.

In spite of all, however, we were no nearer than before to getting away
that I could see. For there was still all that long, desperate traverse
of the defile before we could guide our horses to firm ground again. But
while I was thinking bitterly of my first night's sleep (save the mark!)
away from the Red Tower, I heard something I knew not the meaning of--the
beginning of a new attack, as I judged.

It sounded like a scraping and a crumbling somewhere above.

"God help us now, Jorian!" I cried, in a sudden, quick panic; "they are
coming upon us everyway. I can hear them stripping off the roof-tile
overhead--if such rabbit-warrens as this have Christian roofs!"

Boris sat down calmly with his back against the earthen wall and
trained his pistol upward, ready to shoot whatever should appear.
Presently fragments of earth and hardened clay began to drop on the
pounded floor of the corridor. I heard the soft hiss of the man-at-arms
blowing up his match, and I waited for the crash and the little heap of
flame from the touch.

Suddenly a foot, larger than that of mortal, plumped through our ceiling
of brick-dust and a huge scatterment of earth tumbled down. A great bare
leg, with attachment of tattered hose hanging here and there, followed.

Before the pistol could go off, Boris meanwhile waiting shrewdly for the
appearance of a more vital part, a voice cried, "Stop!"

I looked about me, and there was the Lady Ysolinde come out of her
chamber, with a dagger in her hand. She was looking upward at the hole in
the ceiling.

"For God's sake, do not fire!" she cried; "tis only my poor Lubber Fiend.
Shame on me, that I had quite forgotten him all this time!"

At which, without turning away the muzzle, Boris put it a little aside,
and waited for the disturber of brick-dust ceilings to reveal himself.
Which, when presently he did, a huge, grinning face appeared, pushing
forward at first slowly and with difficulty, then, as soon as the ears
had crossed the narrows of the pass, the whole head to the neck was
glaring down and grinning to us.

"Lubber Jan," said Ysolinde, "what do you up there?"

The head only grinned and waggled pleasantly, as it had been through a
horse-collar at Dantzig fair.

"Speak!" said she, and stamped her little foot; "I will shake thee with
terrors else, monster!"

"Poor Jan came down from above. It is quite easy!" he said. "But not for
horses. Oh no! but now I will go and bring the Burgomeister. Do you keep
the castle while I go. He bides below the town in a great house of stone,
and entertains our Prince Miller's Son's archers. I will bring all that
are sober of them."

"God help us then!" quoth Jorian; "it is past eleven o' the clock, and
as I know them man by man, there will not be so much as one left able to
prop up another by this time!"

"Aha!" cried the head above; "you say that because you know the archers.
But I say I shall bring full twenty of them--because I know the strength
of the Burgomeister's ale. Hold the place for half an hour and twenty
right sober men shall ye have."

And with that the Lubber Fiend disappeared in a final avalanche of
brick-dust and clay clods.

He was gone, and half an hour was a long time to wait. Yet in such a
case there was nothing for it but to stand it out. So I besought the
maids to retire again to their inner chamber, into which, at least,
neither bullets nor arrows could penetrate. This, after some little
persuasion, they did.

We waited. I have since that night fought many easier battles, and
bloody battles, too. Now and then a face would look in momentarily from
the great outer door and vanish before any one could put a shot into it.
Next, ere one was aware, an arrow would whistle with a "_Hisst_!" past
one's breast-bone and stand quivering, head-covered in the clay. Vicious
things they were, too, steel-pointed and shafted with iron for half
their length.

But all waitings come to an end, even that of him who waits on a fair
woman's arraying of herself. Erdberg evidently did not know of the little
party down at the Burgomeister's below the pass of the ravine, or,
knowing, did not care. For, just as our half-hour was crawling to an
end, with a unanimous yell a crowd of wild men with weapons in their
hands poured in through the great door and ran shouting at our position.
At the same time the window at the end of the passage opened and a man
leaped through. Him I sharply attended to with the axe, and stood waiting
for the next. He also came, but not through the window. He ran at me,
head first, through the door, and, being stricken down, completely
blocked it up. Good service! And a usefully bulky man he was. But how he
bled!--Saint Christopher! that is the worst of bulky men, they can do
nothing featly--not even die!

One man won past me, indeed, darting under the stroke of my axe, but he
was little advantaged thereby. For I fetched a blow at the back of his
head with the handle which brought him to his knees. He stumbled and fell
at the threshold of the maids' chamber. And, by my sooth, the Lady
Ysolinde stooped and poignarded him as featly as though it had been a
work of broidering with a bodkin. Too late, Helene wept and besought her
to hold her hand. He was, she said, some one's son or lover. It was
deucedly unpractical. But, 'twas my Little Playmate. And after all, I
suppose, the crack he got from me in the way of business would have done
the job neatly enough without my lady's dagger.

I tell you, the work was hot enough about those three doors during the
next few moments. I never again want to see warmer on this side of
Peter's gates--especially not since I got this wound in my thigh, with
its trick of reopening at the most inconvenient seasons. But the broadaxe
was a blessed thought of the little Helene's, and helped to keep the
castle right valiantly.

Yet I can testify that I was glad with more than mere joy when I heard
the "Trot, trot!" of the Prince's archers coming at the wolf's lope, all
in each other's footsteps, along the narrow ledge of the village street.

"Hurrah, lads!" I shouted; "quick and help us!"

And then at the sound of them the turmoil emptied itself as quickly as it
had come. The rabble of ill-doers melted through the wide outer door,
where the archers received and attended to them there. Some precipitated
themselves over the cliff. Others were straightway knocked down, stunned,
and bound. Some died suddenly. And a few were saved to stretch the
judicial ropes of the Bailiwick. For it was always thought a good thing
by such as were in authority to have a good show on the "Thieves'
Architrave," or general gallows of the vicinity, as a thing at once
creditable to the zeal of the worthy dispensers of local justice, and
pleasing to the Kaiser's officer if he chanced to come spying that way.


CHAPTER XXV

MINE HOST RUNS HIS LAST RACE


Hearty were the greetings when the soldiers found us all safe and sound.
They shook us again and again by the hand. They clapped us on the back.
The impression made by Herder on him made, presented a letter written
October 1776 Wieland.

"My whole soul," he wrote, "is full of a wonderful man. But he is too big,
too great. I feel how little I can Seyn him. Feel, see, understand what
he is and love him more than him, a mortal loved, I can. But how is
inadequate for such a deep-thinking, all-encompassing, powerful Genius!
"By dealing with Goethe and Wieland, Herder was not indifferent to
his distant friends.

Excellent, it was Gleim, which he all his joys and sufferings mittheilte,
and it somehow into the interior of his family led.
The heartiest reveller
forthwith became silent and slunk behind his neighbor. Knees shook
beneath stalwart frames, and there seemed a very general tendency to get
down upon marrow-bones.

The Lady Ysolinde stood before them, strangely different from the
slim, willowy maiden I had seen her. She looked almost imperial in
her demeanor.

"You shall be rewarded for your ready obedience," she said; "the Prince
will not forget your service. Take away that offal!"

She pointed to the dead rascals on the floor.

And the men, muttering something that sounded to me like "Yes, your
Highness !" hastened to obey.

"Did you say 'Yes, your Highness' ?" I asked one of them, who seemed, by
his air of command, to be the superior among the archers.

"Aye," answered he, dryly, "it is a term usually applied to the Lady
Ysolinde, Princess of Plassenburg."

I was never more smitten dazed and dumb in my life. Ysolinde, the
daughter of Master Gerard, the maid who had read my fate in the ink-pool,
whom I had "made suffer," according to her own telling--she the Princess
of Plassenburg '.

Ah, I had it now. Here at last was the explanation of the threadbare and
inexplicable jest of Jorian and Boris, "The Prince hath a Princess, and
she is oft upon her travels !"

But, after all, what a Wendish barking about so small an egg. I have
heard an emperor proclaimed with less cackle.

Ysolinde, Princess of Plassenburg--yes, that made a difference. And I
had taken her hand--I, the son of the Red Axe--I, the Hereditary
Justicer of the Wolfmark. Well, after all, she had sought me, not I
her. And then, the little Helene--what would she make of it? I longed
greatly to find an opportunity to tell her. It might teach her in what
manner to cut her cloth.

The archers of the Prince camped with us the rest of the night in the
place of the outcast crew. They behaved well (though their forbearance
was perhaps as much owing to the near presence of the Princess as to any
inherent virtue in the good men of the bow) to the women and children who
remained huddled in the corners.

Then came the dawn, swift-foot from the east. A fair dawn it was, the
sun rising, not through barred clouds, with the lightest at the
horizon (which is the foul-weather dawn), but through streamers and
bannerets that fluttered upward and fired to ever fleecier crimson and
gold as he rose.

We rode among a subdued people, and ere we went the Princess called for
the Burgomeister and bade him send to Plassenburg the landlord, so soon
as he should be found, and also the heads of the half-dozen houses on
either side of the inn.

Then, indeed, there was a turmoil and a wailing to speak about. In a
very unmuthige mood Wieland was moved by the news to him by the low
sales of his works Gesammtausgabe received.

His publisher, Göschen in Leipzig, he wrote about the 15th July 1799. "I
can not do otherwise than with a deep sense of regret that I myself
have already survived. I do not know how I to such expiration of my
credits and my favor with the reading audience am come and take their
Theile believe that the two and thirty volumes, at least for the
eighteenth century must have his move.

Maybe in the nineteenth century, a lower star than us, and I will,
however, as the Greek flute player, simply, the Muses and myself
to play.

"Recreation of strenuous mental work Wieland found in his rural asylum. Are
several plans to make improvements in his home garden and gave him
the cheerful mood that he by the thought of how deeply his literary
fame had decreased, had lost.

More often, he would have fallen prey to the Mißmuth Seyn if at that
detuning Gemüths still his physical suffering had been introduced.
But even in his advanced age was an almost uninterrupted health
remained.

In a letter to Göschen of 24 December 1798 Wieland wondered
about his own wellbeing. "They found it," he wrote, "your hope that I have
a fairly old patriarch should be.

Twenty years ago, I had no idea of how old I should be sixty, and had
this suspicion in my physical condition, however, many and good causes.
After five and fifty years, my health unvermerkt always solid, and I
find myself now in the sixty six and so absurd that I without my
tenth degree on year to see hope. But you, dear friend, should and
must be me survive, it would be just to my Confessions = = or
messages from myself and my writings, or how you want my title
Selbstrecension, embarrassed to be not more than after my went out
of this world is to be printed.

"The thought that this time is more and more closer to him, not clouded
Wieland serenity.

He felt in his age very happy with literary and rural pursuits and
pleasures.
But it was only the rabble of men and women who had been threatened, the
dwellers in those twelve houses next the inn, who came dragging our
brick-faced knave of a host, with that hard-polished countenance of his
slack and clammy--slate-gray in color too, all the red tan clean gone
out of it.

"Mercy--mercy, great lady!" he cried; "I pray you, do execution on me
here and now. Carry me not to the extreme tortures. Death clears all.
And I own that for my crimes I well deserve to die. But save me from
the strappado, from the torment of the rack. I am an old man and could
not endure."

The Lady Ysolinde looked at him, and her emerald eyes held a steely
glitter in their depths.

"I am neither judge nor"--I think she was going to say "executioner," but
she remembered in time and for my sake was silent, which I thought was
both gracious and charming of her. She resumed in a softer tone: "What
sentence, then, would you desire, thus confessing your guilt?"

"That I might end myself over the cliff there!" said the innkeeper,
pointing to the wall of rock along the edge of which we were riding.

"See, then, that he is well ended!" said the Princess, briefly, to
Jorian.

"Good!" said Jorian, saluting.

And very coolly betook himself to the edge of the cliff, where he primed
his piece anew, and blew up his match.

"Loose the man and stand back!" cried the Princess.

A moment the innkeeper stood nerving himself. A moment he hung on the
thin edge of his resolve. The slack gray face worked convulsively, the
white lips moved, the hands were gripped close to his sides as though
to run a race. His whole body seemed suddenly to shrink and fall in
upon itself.

"The torture! The terrible torture!" he shrieked aloud, and ran swiftly
from the clutches of the men who had held him. Between the path and the
verge of the cliff from which he was suffered to cast himself there
stretched some thirty or forty yards of fine green turf. The old man ran
as though at a village fair for some wager of slippery pig's tail, but
all the time the face of him was like Death and Hell following after.

At the cliff's edge he leaped high into the air, and went headlong down,
to our watching eyes as slowly as if he had sunk through water. None of
us who were on the path saw more of him. But Jorian craned over,
regarding the man's end calmly and even critically. And when he had
satisfied himself that that which was done was properly done, as coolly
as before he stowed away his match in his cover-fire, mounted his horse,
and rode towards us.

He nodded to the Princess. "Good, my Lady!" quoth he, for all comment.

"I saved a charge that time!" said he to his companion.

"Good!" quoth Boris, in his turn.

We had now a safe and noble escort, and the way to Plassenburg was easy.
The face of the country gradually changed. No more was it the gray,
wistful plain of the Wolfmark, upon which our Red Tower looked down. No
more did we ride through the marly, dusty, parched lands, in which were
the ravines with their uncanny cavern villages, of which this Erdberg was
the chief. But green, well-watered valleys and mountains wooded to the
top lay all about us--a pleasant land, a fertile province, and, as the
Princess had said, a land in which the strong hand of Karl the Prince had
long made "the broom-bush keep the cow."

I had all along been possessed with great desire to meet the Prince of so
noble and well-cared-for a land, and perhaps also to see what manner of
man could be the husband of so extraordinary a Princess.


CHAPTER XXVI

PRINCE JEHU MILLER'S SON


Yet now, when she was in her own country, and as good as any queen
thereof, I found the Lady Ysolinde in no wise different from, what she
had been in the city of Thorn and in her father's house. She called me
often to ride beside her, Helene being on my other side, while the Lubber
Fiend, who had saved all our lives, gambolled about and came to her to be
petted like a lapdog of some monstrous sort. He licked his lips and
twisted his eyes upward at her in ludicrous ecstasy till only the whites
were visible whenever the Princess laid her hand on his head. So that it
was as much as the archers of the guard could do to hide their laughter
in their beards. But hide it they did, having a wholesome awe of the
emerald eyes of their mistress, or perhaps of the steely light which
sometimes came into them.

It was growing twilight upon the third day (for there were no adventures
worth dwelling upon after that among the cavern dwellings of Erdberg)
when for the first time we saw the towers of Plassenburg crowning a hill,
with its clear brown river winding slow beneath. We were yet a good many
miles from it when down the dusty road towards us came a horseman, and
fifty yards or so behind him another.

"The Prince--none rides like our Karl!" said Jorian, familiarly, under
his breath, but proudly withal.

"He comes alone!" said I, wonderingly. For indeed Duke Casimir of the
Wolfsberg never went ten lances' length from his castle without a small
army at his tail.

"Even so!" replied Jorian; "it is ever his custom. The officer who
follows behind him has his work cut out--and basted. Not for nothing is
our Karl called Prince Jehu Miller's Son, for indeed he rides most
furiously."

Before there was time for more words between us a tall, grim-faced,
pleasant-eyed man of fifty rode up at a furious gallop. The first thing I
noticed about him was that his hair was exactly the same color as his
horse--an iron-gray, rusty a little, as if it had been rubbed with iron
that has been years in the wet.

He took off his hat courteously to the Princess.

"I bid you welcome, my noble lady," said he, smiling; "the cages are
ready for the new importations."

The Lady Ysolinde reached a hand for her husband to kiss, which he did
with singular gentleness. But, so far as I could see, she neither looked
at him even once nor yet so much as spoke a word to him. Presently he
questioned her directly: "And who may this fair young damsel be, who has
done me the honor to journey to my country?"

"She is Helene, called Helene Gottfried of Thorn, and has come with me to
be one of my maids of honor," answered the Lady Ysolinde, looking
straight before her into the gathering mist, which began to collect in
white ponds and streaks here and there athwart the valley.

The Prince gave the Little Playmate a kindly ironic look out of his
gray eyes, which, as I interpreted it, had for meaning, "Then, if that
be so, God help thee, little one--'tis well thou knowest not what is
before thee!"

"And this young man?" said the Prince, nodding across to me.

But I answered for myself.

"I am the son of the Hereditary Justicer of the Wolfmark," said I. "I
had no stomach for such work. Therefore, as I was shortly to be made my
father's assistant, I have brought letters of introduction to your
Highness, in the hopes that you will permit me the exercise of arms in
your army in another and more honorable fashion."

"I have promised him a regiment," said the Princess, speaking quickly.

"What--of leaden soldiers?" answered the Prince, looking at her
mighty soberly.

"Your Highness is pleased to be brutal," answered the Lady Ysolinde,
coldly. "It is your ordinary idea of humor!"

A kind of quaint humility sat on the face of the Prince.

"I but thought that your Highness could have nothing else in her
mind--seeing that our rough Plassenburg regiments will only accept men of
some years and experience to lead them. But the little soldiers of metal
are not so queasy of stomach."

"May it please your Highness," said I, earnestly, "I will be content to
begin with carrying a pike, so that I be permitted in any fashion to
fight against your enemies."

Jorian and Boris came up and saluted at this point, like twin mechanisms.
Then they stood silent and waiting.

The Prince nodded in token that they had permission to speak.

"With the sword the lad fights well," said Boris. "Is it not so, Jorian?"

"Good!" said Jorian.

"But with the broadaxe he slashes about him like an angel from
heaven--not so, Boris?" said Jorian.

"Good!" said Boris.

"Can you ride?" said the Prince, turning abruptly from them.

"Aye, sire!" said I. For indeed I could, and had no shame to say it.

"That horse of his is blown; give him your fresh one!" said he to the
officer who had accompanied him. "And do you show these good folk to
their quarters."

Hardly was I mounted before the Prince set spurs to his beast, and,
with no more than a casual wave of his hand to the Princess and her
train, he was off.

"Ride!" he cried to me. And was presently almost out of sight, stretching
his horse's gray belly to the earth, like a coursing dog after a hare.

It is my opinion did not invite me to Dresden Allen, who helped me in
fittings should be followed to disclose. Neither my health nor my diet,
I mentioned in my years at an extremely delicate and irritability
Constitution had to observe, nor my intention, my time in Dresden to view
the magnificent collection of paintings there to use, could be waiting
many, visits, dinners and Soupee's tolerated, and I wanted to travel
to completely give up rather than the freedom, also in Dresden
(where admittedly no freedom trees so you can easily take root)
to my own spirit and will to live.

"This request was not quite true. Wieland also so happy every opportunity
to celebrate seeing avoided had it but can not avoid, in the Churchill
Pillnitz prince to be presented.

Some interesting acquaintances which he made in Dresden, but let
him not regret his trip. with larger obstacles he had to struggle before
it the idea that the country again to see where his youth verlebt,
realisirte. Not just for the "German Mercury", but also for the uninterrupted
continuation of the pressure of his whole of works he must ensure
before it to a six-monthly stay in Switzerland could imagine, from which
he, after his own speech, "for his inner voice and promised a lot of
good people." Not just the longing, the bookseller at his Gessner in
Zurich verheirathete daughter Charlotte again, that prompted him
to travel.

His suffering health had to tell him that his recovery was very Nöthiger.
"I needed," said Wieland, "of such a wound inside my watch, and the
joys of the heart that I am in the Geßnerschen family expect will be a
draft from the Fontaine de = = Juvence Seyn for me. "A touch of hypochondria,
as he himself confessed, made all sorts of doubts in Wieland lively
before he decided to travel to Switzerland to stand."

One speaks and writes, "he said in one of his former letters," even
as much of the insecurity of the roads in Franconia and Swabia,
where numerous bands of robbers is nestled have that in the That I
do not know if I am right Thue, a so-dangerous Travel with wife and
children to dare.

About Main Germany comes to me now not much better before, as it did in the
times of the Thirty Years' War, and I confess that I trust everything
to the people lost, and in each unknown a thief and murderer to
think.

"On its son, the bookseller Gessner, Wieland wrote soon afterwards:
"I should certainly, if I only had so much faith, as the tenth Theil
a mustard seed, put more trust in the love angel who will guide us.

But that's just the misery that I have less faith than Sancte St. Thomas,
and not much more heart than faith. Da lob 'I have my honest housewife,
your mother!

This is so delicate, as if they were made from Postpapierschnitzeln and
has heart and intrepidity and Heldenmuth, despite the bravest of all
Marfisen and Bradamante. "On May 24, 1795 Wieland was with his wife and
three children, Caroline, William and Louisa, in a comfortable
car, which he owed to the Duchess Amalia of Weimar departed.

The friendly reception it on in several places, especially in Nuremberg
found, nor was surpassed by the many proofs of love and kindness to him
by older and younger friends at his entrance into Switzerland received.
Göschen wrote Wieland At the August 8, 1795.

"You get this leaflet is not - as you could cheaply hypothesis - from the
banks of the river Lethe, whose residents a sweet oblivion of all
things on earth eingesogen have, but from the right bank of the
Zürchersees in whose neighborhood like I have a small house has
been about eight weeks inhabit, and probably find me as if I am now
in my early years traveled 63sten new account should start to live.

You know the country and the place and lovely people with whom I
live.

They have even if I am not mistaken, for several days in the home
Geßnerschen delayed, and if you now think of the pleasure, in which I
by one of my favorite children came to the same bin, so you will
easily be imagined to include day and weeks with a barely understood
myself speed, fly over my head, and how long my stay local while
also could he give me the surprising Days Parting but always only
a short morning will seem a dream.

"Due to some concerns that the course of political events in his wake,
Wieland felt prompted to accelerate his departure. "The war," he wrote,
"has now shifted from the banks of the Rhine and Neckar to the heart of
Germany's withdrawn.

Everything is different with the unstoppable power, and it's missing here
is not to rumors, we also for the great deal of Thuringia and Saxony
distressed might wofern the West francs perhaps Ernst Seyn should all
voluntary as well as Theil forced policyholders to the gods and
people hated wars their heavy hand feel for you.

Was now the time to delight me the circumstances of days that I have
from my stay here promised not so pure can enjoy, as I probably
would have wished, it is one of the main purposes of my trip met.

I am extremely well, and if the good genius of my journey from
Weimar to Zurich favored me from Zurich to Weimar back, may I hope
that the good consequences of that for my health and the cheerfulness
of my mind for several years to try.

"On 15 September 1795 Wieland reported that he letztverwichenen two clock
Sunday afternoon with his love travel company healthy and safe in
Weimar had arrived.

"His good genius," he wrote, "have managed it so that it is based on the
entire route over Stuttgart, Heilbronn, Schwäbisch-Hall,
Anspach, Nuremberg, Bamberg, Coburg, and Saalfeld no Frenchmen to face,
even imperial troops encountered nowhere to post no longer than an hour
was up, that his caution taken from German and French passports
and not once had Nöthiger, and with a word so quiet and comfortable
travel was as if peace would be everywhere.

"His stay in Switzerland had given him the life of a country so
anmuthigen page shows that he who, after his own confessions, "as
like Horace, through life's weggeschlichen would be, and hated
nothing more than urban, farm and world turmoil," is often full of
yearning desire aufdrang in rural seclusion, nature, themselves and
those with him to be able to live.

Respect and tilt princely patrons, the friendship of some excellent men,
who at that time in Weimar is gathered, had him in that decision
making can be shaky.

Often, however, spilled Wieland in bitter complaints that he is at
leisure all but a very disjointed life, by intermittent visits by
locals and foreigners.

His decorous Zartgefühl for staggered him in a very unmuthige mood,
if it from strangers in a dressing gown and night cap was surprised.

Trostlos made him especially the idea that his guileless hingeworfenen
utterances of such visitors to be collected and made publicly available
could be. All 'this inconvenience, he believed in a rural retreat
to escape to him überdieß some favorite plan, which employed his
mind, allowed to execute.

Seriously he thought a longer period of time due to his previous residence
in Weimar with a friendly country house in High Town, near Grimma to
confuse. Much atractive had the idea for him, then his friend Göschen
neighboring them. His relationship with the Weimar court nöthigten him,
however, to abandon this plan again.

The stay in the manor located near Weimar Tannrode Wieland's poetry
is painted with the brightest colors. About the purchase of this
good to the family of Egloffstein belonged, he pflog Negotiations. He
called it in one of his letters a genuine Horace Sabinum. "I flatterer
me," he wrote, "if I am only in my old castle Tannrode etablirt
Seyn will, in the beautiful air and the beautiful nature that
surrounded me there is new vivacity and force my mind to work."

This idea, however, gave Wieland again. He decided on the purchase of
the goods located near Weimar Osmanstädt for the sum of 22000
Thales.

This sum he believed some of them by selling his house in Weimar, and some
number of years by a rate and gradually abzutragendes Capital,
duty which he, through his friend Göschen hoped to receive.

With Wieland had some obstacles, as Göschen's negative response
modest, yet struggled before his favorite realisiren could desire.

His Credit in Weimar, he wanted to not use it.

"I am quite convinced," he wrote, "if all others should pull cords,
the duke would not be me stuck in the North. But I have more than one
cause for this heroic means, only in the extreme Nothfall to concurriren.
In a letter to Wieland Göschen said: "Listen, my dear friend, I believe
that my affair, without you or me woe is happening arrangirt could be
entirely because I can not from the game, so I's also very thun to be
wished. You are now, because it would have even so, my publisher, and it
must Seyn and remain, this is not a harbor. "- After Wieland now
the fee for the new edition of his works to 7000 Thaler was fixed,
he concluded his letter to Göschen with the words.

"Why, I ask you, is that I am at future Michaelistag 4000 Thaler of you
could expect to receive."

Wieland As might be felt in his "Osmantinum" or his "Superior
Municipal Mercy", as his country of asylum are sometimes called,
described several of his former letters.

On April 25, 1797, he had there, after completing the purchase, its for
some time now.

A quarter later, 25 July, he wrote: "I feel as if no other way to exist
for me was possible, and the Weimar prophets who foresaw as a whole
is infallible, that I did miserably in the countryside and = vis à
vis de moi même = bored would exist with shame.

Also they lock their eyes on more powerful that I was so bright and cheerful
look, and that phenomenon can not explain. But I understand the miracle
is very good, and in the uneven That better than I like the four
and twenty years that I lived in Weimar, nor did it reasonably can
sustain.

Country air, unverkünstelte nature, lots of grass and beautiful trees,
external peace and freedom of disposition over myself and my time - this
all together, so to say, my element, as well as the air of the bird and
the water element of the fish is, and it is therefore quite naturally
that I was to flourish.

"Wieland was inexhaustible in praise of country life, which, as he thought,
very wohlthätig on his state of health effect. He wrote about 19
December 1797 to a friend:" The pleasant is that I am in this variable,
dull and schlackrigen winter on all the people waiting outside of
my physical specimen Constitution do.

In the city I would be in those eight weeks verwichenen probably have found
pretty bad here in my home Osmanstädt I am well and hearty
continuously, working at my desk with Success, have, whatever I do
not come to the door, good appetite , and sleep much better than
formerly.

Everything so decides, at least in my case, the advantage of country
life before the city life, none of the negative and passive virtues
to remember what the country mouse at Horace against her friend,
the town mouse, argues.

Alongside me does Bewußtseyn also well aware that my garden is already in
a noticeably better condition have. Over three hundred trees I planted,
of which more Theil, if they are well through this winter, I at
least the first fruits can hope to experience, and what I cultivation
and improvement of various, gradually decline through neglect in
the part of Come already, but did and still be used, is already in
future years so strikingly Seyn that who visited me again, in a
small paradise offset is to see to believe.

"Among the aforementioned rural occupations was Wieland's literary work is
not being unfaithful become although some of which he so much
complaints and annoyances prepared, that he eagerly wanted to be
able to discard her.

The "German Mercury" would he, if he gain the moderate to him this
journal abwarf would have deprived may have abandoned first.

Very unwillingly he was sometimes on the abundant Zusendungen bad verses,
and other mediocre products. Especially was dismembered by Wieland's
time to answer numerous letters from all parts of Germany came to
him.

In answering this, he was admittedly sometimes dilatoriness so that he
therefore he made allegations probably deserves to have believed,
and even sometimes even sharper censured.

Wieland's humor, which never quite left him, he once gave a public
statement, through which it is to be frequent and worth-less
Manuscriptsendungen wanted to prevent.

"Miscellaneous, which me, "he wrote," with all sorts of Theilmann
versificirten and some prosaic-poetic essays, idylls and the like for
Merkur to Treat the weighted had put me in a kind of embarrassment,
which I always like to überhoben to Seyn wish.

Inclined will deserve your thanks, but it is a tiresome Collision of
obligations, the effects of which neither they nor I can Seyn
pleasant.

Some seem from the goodness of their Products to Seyn so convinced that
they are, without insult, neither say nor to understand the question,
you had a different opinion.

Others are more modest, to give just for beginners to
ask for leniency, or that their Lectiones corrigiren, or at least
say whether they were appointed to Dichterei or not.

But they bring with such an apparent expectation of a courteous, di love
flattering their own decision before that one's little heart's can
bring them by an honest answer to woe thun.

This is more, that our one - of such a young candidate of
Musenpriesterthums asked: Master, what shall I thun?

and after him his conscience can be the answer: Everything, my dear
friend, do not make verses! - Sure, that the young aspirant that answer
even for a professional answer is, now's the case on making verses
to lay.

After all - he says to himself - my verses must surely good Seyn because
Wieland is afraid that I will cut him, and I am so close to the
threshold of the temple, like the Muses would like to shrink. - How
could the poor author of the winter and Sommermährchens under stand,
such a rival, something unpleasant to say?

The young man would naturally think, they just bore Wieland, in light
of the verses and a good way to tell than to see.

I will also because the young poet, without refutation hereby permitted
have. Only Mercury is not a worthy venue for such original works.

My Rath is irrelevant, particularly, and for the sake Effects on
magnificent Dutch paper, with copper by Chodowiecky, print it.

The author is in effect to see miracles! Now is precisely the right
moment when the nation for such work has sense, because it looks so,
how well they Oberon, which is only on bad paper, and without
copper from anyone, his advancement in the world was looking for.

"Another inconvenience what Wieland often bitterly complained, came
to him from the time-consuming Correcturen the twenty years he
worried through it alone, and until 1793 to a cooperative house, a
candidate of theology, Lütke Mueller named, had transferred.

With Unmuth expressed Wieland on the often illegible manuscript. Each
scholar and writer, said he should write a legible hand, which
could rightly call for, otherwise he must be printed by an experienced
writer of his hand well copiren leave. moroseness Likewise, against
the through long habit, he would be indifferent, even produced in
him the idea of handing over the "German Mercury" abandon, regardless
of this journal for him has not been a negligible source of, and
talented minds, among others Since 1785 by Reinhold, and since 1788
Schiller by substantial contributions had been supported.

On November 26, 1798 theilte Wieland Göschen his friends with the
message that the "German Mercury" with the December will stop. Fourteen
days later, however, he revoked this decision, and stated that for
the continuation of his journal, at least until the end of the
century.

The Rath of his friends liked him to have this decision, from which it take
a look at the then state of the German literature had shrunk. The Kantian
philosophy to him by Reinhold's efforts, their Principi more
generally, to distribute, was not able to remain unknown, said its influence
on all scientific research.

Unmistakably was particularly the influence of that philosophy
to the newer aesthetics, in their place now a Geschmackscritik
should occur.

On the other hand, Wieland had essentially nothing. But the new philosophical
school, stemming from the Kantian formed seemed to him a complete
redesign to bring about the aesthetics, since we had started them
on the fundamental ideas of science teaching Fichte'schen Reducir.

This was especially of Schiller in the "Listen" to happen. With growing
concerns Wieland looked at the place quiet investigations a new
storm and stress period, kick, and as in the political world, it
seemed even in the aesthetics a kind of terrorism to want to be
prevalent.'

s On was aroused violent passion of the various Partheien by in the
Schiller's Muses almanac of 1797 printed "Xenien."

The author of this Epigrams, Goethe and Schiller, Wieland were friends. His
devotion to Goethe's has previously been thought. Schillers Wieland
talent but had not initially full justice to let in a fairly hard
and almost unreasonable determination of some Scenes of "Don Carlos,"
Schiller in which the "Thalia" mitgetheilt had.

Urtheil Wieland contained a letter dated March 6, 1785.

"I may be wrong," he wrote, "but in any case, I am sincere in my
conviction when I say that I have neither the characters in this
drama drawn, nor the passions with truth find out, that I even if
I have to admit could allow a tragedy that Schreiber, his people
from the sixteenth century to the royal court of Philip II takes
it allows them in ideal fantasy creatures to transform, but the
psychological truth not uncommon to miss them, without which they
all, if you wants beautiful Carricaturen Seyn like, but always only
Carricaturen are, that I quite often thought and expressions
encountered bin, which to my mind, sometimes bombastic, sometimes
to humorous inopportunely soon otherwise improper, and the person
speaking is not respectable; and that any language in this piece
very far away, in my opinion, from Sophocles and Racine deducted
Ideally the beautiful language of tragedy Seyn be.

"Despite this strict Critik that gives it a mood unmuthige have
liked, Schiller was, when some years later (1787) came to Weimar,
from Wieland received with fatherly affection.

"We will have beautiful hours," wrote Schiller, "Wieland is
young, if he likes."

A friendly relationship between the two poets took away, and became more
firmly established by Schiller's contributions to the "German Mercury."
In December 1787 Wieland opened the public the view that "Schiller with
the next year, perhaps every month with a piece of paper decorated
with his hand, which is already in their first attempts to master
verrathe future, and now that his spirit to the point of the trip
achieved have justified the expectation that the audience of the
author of "Fiesko" and "Don Carlos" to cause it had. " Wieland
added: "Since I myself from the center of life a few years descend,
and every day find more opportunity, on myself to find out how true
that Virgile: = Facilis descensus = Averni in more than one meaning,
then served it to me to not less encouragement, this noble young
man at my side to see, and with such support, I may safely hope
that the German Merkur his first charitable purposes in recently
to a very significant nature to you.

"Several points in Wieland's letters, then spoke for its recognition
and respect Schiller. With love decent modesty refused to Wieland, the
"historic Calendar" that Schiller was issued, the life of the
Cardinal Richelieu of the attack. He did not want to be with Schiller
in the barriers are, for the Calendar that his "History of the
Thirty Years' War" delivered.

"This story," said Wieland, "has had so many readers, as it did in the
whole extent of our language giebt people, based on some degree of
cultivation of the mind have to do right.
he said, at last, looking shrewdly at me from
beneath his gray brows.

It was spoken half as a question and half as information.

"Loves me?" stammered I, the blood sucking back to my heart and leaving
my head light and tingling.

The Prince nodded calmly.

"So they say!" said he.

"My Lord, it is a thing impossible!" cried I, earnestly. "I am but a poor
lad--and she has been kind to me. But of love no word has been spoken.
Besides--"

And I stopped.

"Out with it, man!" said the Prince, more like, as it seemed to me, a
comrade inviting a confidence than a great Prince speaking to a newly
made officer.

"Well, I--I love the Little Playmate."

It came out with a rush at last.

"Oh!" said he; "that is bad. I hope that is not a matter arranged, a
thing serious. For if the Princess knows as much, the young woman will
not have her troubles to seek in the Palace of Plassenburg."

I hung my head and said naught, save that Helene declared she loved me
not, but that I thought she was mistaken.

"Ah, then," cried the Prince, like one exceedingly relieved, "it is but
some boy and girl affair. That is better. She may change her mind, as you
will certainly change yours--and that several times--among the ladies of
the court. I was in hopes--"

And the Prince stopped in his turn, not from bashfulness, but rather like
a man who desires more carefully to choose his words.

"I was in hopes," he went on, speaking slowly, "that if the Princess
loved your boy's face and liked my conversation (which I may say without
pride that I think she does) you and I together might have kept her at
home. So over-much wandering is not good for the state. Also it gets her
a name beyond all manner of ill-doing within-doors."

Once more I knew not well what to answer to this speech of the Prince's,
so I remained discreetly silent.

"I have seen the Princess's flittermice about her before, often enough (I
thank thee for the word, Sir Captain.), but this is the first time she
has performed the ink-pool and crystal foolery with any man. There is no
great harm in the Princess. In the things of love she is as inflammable
as the ink, and as soft as the crystal. Fear not, Joseph, Potiphera may
be depended upon not to proceed to extremities. But I was in some hopes
that you and I could have arranged matters between us, being both
men--aye, and honorable men."

I saw that Karl Miller's Son looked sad and troubled.

"Prince, you love the Princess!" said I, thrusting out my hand to him
before I thought. He did not take it, but instead he thrust a flagon of
wine into it, as if I had asked for that--yet the thing was not done by
way of a rebuff. I saw that plainly.

"Pshaw! What does a grizzle-pate with love?" said he, gruffly.
"Nevertheless, I was in hopes."

"Prince Karl," said I, "I give you word of honor, 'tis not as you say or
they say. The Princess has indeed done me the honor to be friendly--"

"To hold your hand!" he murmured, softly, like a chorus.

"Well, to be friendly, and--"

"To caress your cheek?" put in the Prince, gently as before.

"Done me the honor to be friendly--"

"To play with your curls, lad?"

"The Princess--" I began, all in a tremor. For anything more awkward
than this conversation I had never experienced. It bathed me in a drip
of cold sweat.

"To kiss you, perhaps, at the waygoing?" he insinuated.

"No!" thundered I, at last. "Prince, you do your Princess great wrong."

He lifted his hand in a gentle, deprecating way, most unlike the rider
who had ridden so fast and so hotly that night of our coming.

"You mistake me, sir," he said. "On the contrary, I have the greatest
respect for the Princess Ysolinde. I would not wrong her for the world.
But I know her track of old. You are a brave lad, and, after all, I fear
there is something in that calf-love of yours--devil take it!"

I thought I could now dimly discern whither the Prince's plans
were tending.

"Your Highness," said I, "I am a young man and of little experience. I
cannot tell why you have chosen to speak so freely to me. But I am your
servant, and, in all that hurts not the essence and matter of my love for
the Little Playmate, I will do even as you say."

Prince Karl grasped my hand.

"Ah, well said!" he cried. "You are running your head into a peck of
troubles, though. And you are likely to have some experience of womenkind
shortly--a thing which does no brisk young fellow any harm, unless he
lets them come between him and his career. Women are harmless enough, so
that you keep them well down to leeward. I am Baltic-bred, and have ever
held to this--that you may sail unscathed through fleets of farthingales,
so being that you keep the wind well on your quarter, and see the
fair-way clear before you."

I did not at the time understand half he said, but I knew we had made
some sort of a bargain. And I thought, with an aching, unsatisfied heart,
that though it might be well enough for an iron-gray and cynical old
Prince, the thing would hardly commend itself to Helene, my Little
Playmate, to whom I had so recently spoken loving words, sweeter than
ever before.

"Devil take all Princes and Princesses!" I said, as I thought, to myself.
But I must have spoken aloud, for the Prince laughed.

"Do not waste good prayers needlessly," he said; "he will!"

And so, with a careless and humorsome wave of his hand to one side, he
went down the staircase, and so out into the quadrangle of the Palace.


CHAPTER XXIX

LOVES ME--LOVES ME NOT


Now how this plan of my Lord Prince's worked in the Palace of Plassenburg
I find it difficult to tell without writing myself down a "painted
flittermouse," as the Prince expressed it. I was in high favor with my
master; well liked also by most of the hard-driving, rough-riding young
soldiers whom the miller's son had made out of the sons of dead and
damned Ritterdom. I got my share of honor and good service, too, in going
to different courts and bringing back all that Prince Karl needed. To
exercise myself in the art of war, I hunted the border thieves and gave
them short enough shrift. In a year I had made such an assault as that of
the inn at Erdberg an impossibility all along the marches of our
provinces.

The crusty old councillor, Leopold Dessauer, who had held office under
the last Prince of the legitimate line, was ever ready to assist me with
the kindest of deeds and the bitterest and saltest of words.

"What did I tell you about being Field-Marshal?" said he one day--"in
Karl's kingdom the shorter the service, the higher the distinction.
If you and the Prince live long enough, I shall see you carry a
musketoon yet, and not one of the latest pattern, either. You will be
promoted down, like a booby who has been raised by chance to the top
of the class!"

"Well," said I, humbly, for I always reverenced age, "then I hope,
High-Chancellor Dessauer, that I shall carry my musketoon as becomes a
brave man!"

"I do not doubt it!" said he. "And that is the most hopeful thing I have
seen about you yet. It is just possible, on the other hand, that you may
yet rule and the Prince carry the piece."

"God forbid!" said I, heartily. For next to my own father, of all men I
loved the Prince.

"The Princess hath a pretty hand," remarked Dessauer casually, as if he
had said, "It will rain to-morrow!"

"I' faith, yes!" said I; "what have you been at to find out that?"

"Weak--weak!" he said, shaking his head. "I fear you will wreck on that
rock. It is your blind peril!"

"My blind peril!" cried I. "What may that be, High Councillor?"

"Ah, lad," he said, smiling with that wise, all-patient smile which the
aged affect when they mean to be impressive, yet know how useless is
their wisdom, "it was never intended by the Almighty that any man should
have eyes all round his head. That is why He fixed two in front, and made
them look straight forward. That is also why He made us a little lower
(generally a good deal lower) than the angels!"

I heard him as if I heard him not.

"You do me the honor to follow me?" he said, looking at me. He was, I
think, conscious that my eyes wandered to the door, for indeed I was
expecting the Little Playmate to come down every minute.

"Ah! yes, you follow indeed," he said, bitterly, "but it is the trip of
feet, the flirt of farthingales down the turret steps. No matter! As I
was saying, every man has his blind peril. He can see the thousand. He
provides laboriously against them. He blocks every avenue of risk, he
locks every dangerous door, and lo! there is the thousand-and-first right
before him, yawning wide open, which he does not see--his Blind Peril!"

"And what, High-Councillor Dessauer, is my blind peril?"

"I will tell you, Hugo," he said; "not that you will believe or alter a
hair. A man may do many things in this world, but one thing he cannot do.
He cannot kiss the fingers of a Princess--dainty fingers, too, separating
finger from finger--and kiss also the Princess's maid of honor on the
mouth. The combination is certainly entertaining, but like the Friar's
powder it is somewhat explosive."

"And how," asked I, "may you know all that ?"

The old man nodded his head sagely.

"Neither by ink-pool nor yet by scrying! All the same, I know. Moreover,
your peril is not a blind peril only, but a blind man's peril. Ye must
choose, and that quickly, little son--fingers or lips."

I heard the rustle of a skirt down the stair. It was the light, springing
tread of the one I loved first and best, last and only.

"By the twelve gods, lips!" cried I, and made for the door.

And I heard the chuckling laughter of High-Chancellor Dessauer behind me
as I followed Helene down the stairs. It sounded like the decanting of
mellow wine, long hidden in darksome cellars, and now, in the flower of
its age, bringing to the light the smiling of ancient vineyards and the
shining of forgotten suns.

I found Helene arrived before me in the rose-garden. She did not turn
round as I came, though she heard me well enough. Instead she walked on,
plucking at a marguerite.

"Loves me--loves me _not_!" she said, bearing upon the last word with
triumphant accent, as she continued to dismantle the poor flower.

And flashing round upon me with the solitary petal in her hand, she
presented it with a low bow, in elfish mockery of the manner of the court
exquisite.

"Ah, true flower!" she said, apostrophizing the bare stalk, "a flower
cannot lie. It has not a glozing tongue. It cannot change back and forth.
The sun shines. It turns towards the sun. The sun leaves the skies. It
shuts itself up and waits his return. Ah,-true flower, dear flower, how
unlike a man you are!"

"Helene," said I, "you have learned conceits from the catch-books. You
quarrel by rote. Were I as eager to answer me, I might say: 'Ah, false
flower, you grow out of the foulness underneath. You give your fragrance
to all without discretion--a common lover, prodigal of favors, fit only
to be torn to shreds by pretty, spiteful fingers, and to die at last with
a lie in your mouth. Again I say--false flower!'"

"You can turn the corners, Sir Juggler, with the cup and ball of words,"
answered Helene. "So much they have already taught you in a court. But
there is one thing that your fine-feathered tutors have not taught
you--to make love to two women in one house and hide it from both of
them. Hot and cold may not come too near each other. They will mix and
make lukewarm of both."

A wise observation, and one that I wished I had made myself.

"May the devil take all princes and princesses!" I began, as I had done
to the Prince himself.

Helene shook her head.

"Hugo," she said, "I was but a simpleton when I came hither, and knew
nothing. Now I am wise, and I know!"

She touched her forehead with her finger, just where the curls were
softest and prettiest.

"Oh, you have learned to be thrice more beautiful than ever you were!" I
said, impetuously.

"So I am often told," answered she, calmly.

"Who dared tell you ?" cried I, quick as fire, laying my hand on my
sword.

"The false common flowers by the wayside tell me!" said Helene, pertly.

"Let them beware, or I will take their heads off for rank weeds!"
I answered.

For at that time, in the Court of Plassenburg, we talked in figures and
romance words. We had indeed become so familiar with the mode that we
could use no other, even in times of earnestness. So that a man would go
to be hanged or married with a quipsome conceit on his lips.

"I think, Sir Janus Double-tongue," she said, "that you would not be the
worse of a little medicine of your own concocting."

And with that she swept her skirts daintily about and tripped down in to
the pleasaunce of flowers, to make which the Prince Karl had brought a
skilled gardener all the way from France.

I prowled about the higher terrace, moodily watching the sky and thinking
on the morrow's weather. And by-and-by I saw one come forth from among
the cropped Dutch hedges, and stride across to where Helene walked with
something white in her hand. I could see her again picking a flower to
pieces, and methought I could hear the words. My jealous fancy conjured
up the ending, "Loves me not--loves me! Loves me not!"

She turned even as she had done to me. The newcomer was that sneering
Court fop, the Count von Reuss, Duke Casimir's nephew--still in hiding
from the wrath of his uncle. For at that time hardly any court in Germany
was without one or two of these hangers-on, and a bad, reckless,
ill-contriving breed they were at Plassenburg, as doubtless elsewhere.

Then grew my heart hard and bitter, and yet, in a moment afterwards, was
again only wistful and sad.

"She had been safer," thought I, "in the old Red Tower than playing
flower fancies with such a man!"

For I had seen the very devil look out of his eye--which indeed it did
as often as he cast it on a fair woman. In especial, I longed to
throttle him each time he turned to watch Helene as she went by. And
here she was walking with him, and talking pleasantly too, in the rose
garden of the palace.

"Ah, devil take all princes and princesses!" said I. This one, it is
true, was only a count, and disinherited. But I felt that the thing was
the Prince's doing, and that it was for the sake of the covenant he had
made with me that I was compelled to put up with such a toad as Von Reuss
crawling and besliming the fair garden of my love.

It was an evening without clouds--everything shining clear after rain,
the scent of the flowers rising like incense so full and sweet that you
could almost see it. The unnumbered birds were every one awake,
responsive and emulous. The deep silence of midsummer was broken up. It
was like another spring.

The Princess Ysolinde came out to take the air. She was wrapped in her
gown of sea-green silk, with sparkles of dull copper upon it. The dress
fitted her like a snake's skin, and glittered like it too as she swayed
her lithe body in walking.

"Ha, Hugo," she said, "I thought I should find you here!"

I did not say that if another had been kinder she might have found me
elsewhere and otherwise employed. I had at least the discretion to leave
things as they were. For the time to speak plainly was not yet.

She took my arm, and we paced up and down.

"Princess--" I began.

"Ysolinde!" corrected she, softly.

It was an old and unsettled contention between us.

"Well then, Ysolinde, to-morrow must I ride to fight the men of mine own
country of the Wolfmark. I like not the duty. But since it must be, for
the sake of the brave Prince, it shall be well done."

"You do not say 'For your sake, Ysolinde'?" she answered, pensively.

"No," I said, bluntly, "'for the Prince's sake.'"

"You would do all things for the Prince's sake--nothing for mine!" said
the Princess, withdrawing her hand.

"On the contrary, Lady Ysolinde," I made answer, "I do all things for
your sake. Save for the sake of your good-will, I should now be
elsewhere."

Which was true enough. I should have been in the garden pleasaunce
beneath, and probably with my sword out, arguing the case with Von Reuss.

But she pressed my arm, for she understood that I had delayed a day from
my duty for her sake. So touched at heart was Ysolinde that she slipped
her hand down from my arm and took my hand instead, flirting a corner of
her shawl cleverly over both, to hide the fact from the men-at-arms--as
Helene could not have done to save her life. But every maid of honor who
passed noted and knew, lifting eyebrows at one another, I doubt not, as
soon as we passed, which thing made me feel like a fool and blush hotly.
For I knew that ere they were couched that night every maid of them would
tell Helene, and with pleasure in the telling too.

"Devil take--" I began and stopped.

"What did you say?" asked Ysolinde, almost tenderly.

"That if I come not back again from the Wolfmark it will be the better
for all of us!" I made answer, which was indeed the sense if not the
exact text of my remark.

"Nay," she said, shuddering, "not better for me that am companionless!"

"Why so?" said I, boldly. "You do not love me. Deep at the bottom of
your heart you love your husband, Karl the Prince. You know there is no
man like him. Me you do not love at all."

"You will not let me," she said, softly, almost like a shy country
maiden.

"Ah, if I had, you would have slain me long ere this," said I, "for I
read you like a child's horn-book that he plays battledore with. 'Have
not--_love_! Have--_hate_.' There you are, all in brief, my Lady
Ysolinde."

"It is false," laughed she; "but nevertheless I love greatly to hear you
call me Ysolinde."

She netted her fingers in mine beneath the shawl. Well might the High
Councillor say that she had a beautiful hand. Though, God wot, much he
knew about it. For Ysolinde of Plassenburg could speak with her hand,
love with it, be angry with it, hate with it--and kill with it.

"I am an experiment," said I; "one indeed that has lasted you a little
longer than the others, my Lady Ysolinde, only because you have not come
to the end of me so soon."

"Pshaw!" she said, pushing me from her, for we were at the turning of a
path, "you love another. That is the amulet against infection that you
carry. Yet sometimes I think that that other is only your hateful,
plain-favored, vainly conceited self!"

I saw the Prince sit alone, according to his custom, in an arbor behind
us at that very moment--and judge if I blushed or no. But the Princess
saw him not, being eager upon her flouting of me.

"I tell you," she cried, scornfully and disdainfully, "there is nothing
interesting about you but the blueness of your eyes, and that any monk
can make upon parchment, aye, and deeper and bluer, with his
lapis-lazuli. An experiment!--Why should I, Ysolinde of Plassenburg,
experiment with you, the son of the Red Axe of the Wolfsberg ?"

"Nay, that I know not," I answered; "but yet I am indeed no more than
your arrow-butts, your target of practice, your whipping-boy, to be slung
at and arrow-drilled and bullet-pitted at your pleasure!"

"I dare say," she said, bitterly; "and all the time you go scathless--no
more heart-stricken than if summer flies lighted on thee. Away with such
a man; he is the ghost of a man--a simulacrum--no true lover!"

"At your will, Princess. I shall indeed go away. I will to-morrow seek
the spears. But, after all, you will not send me forth in anger?" I said,
with a strong conviction that I knew the answer.

"And why not?" said she.

"Because," I replied, looking at her, "I am, after all, the one man who
believes thoroughly in your heart's deep inward goodness. I believe in
you even when you do not believe in yourself. I can affirm, for I know
better than you know yourself. You cover the beauty of your heart from
others. You flout and jeer. Above all, you experiment dangerously with
words and actions. But, after all, I am necessary to you. You will not
send me away in anger. For you need some one to believe in the soundness
of your heart. And I, Hugo Gottfried, am that man!"

"Hence, flatterer!" cried the lady, smiling, but well pleased. "It is
known to all that I am the Old Serpent--the deceiver--the ill fruit of
the Knowledge of Evil. And now you say of Good also! And what is more and
worse, you expect me to believe you. Wherein you also experiment! I pray
you, do not so. That is to you the forbidden fruit. Good-night. Go, now,
and pray for a more truthful tongue!"

And with that she went in, the copper spangles glancing at her waist red
as the light on ripe wheat, and all her tall figure lissome as the
bending corn.


CHAPTER XXX

INSULT AND CHALLENGE


Now, because there is still so much to tell, and so little time and space
to tell it in, I must go forward rapidly. In these dull times of grouting
peace, when men become like penned pigs, waking up only at feeding-time,
they have no knowledge of how swiftly life went when every day brought a
new living friend or a new dead enemy, when love and hate awakened fresh
and fresh with each morrow's sun--and when I was young.

Perhaps that last is the true reason. But when the Baltic norther snorts
without, and mine ancient thigh-wound twinges down where my hand rests,
naturally I have no better resource than to fall to the goose-quill. And
lo! long ere I am done with the first page, and have the ink no more than
half-way to the roots of my hair, I am again in the midst of the ringing
hoofs of the foray. I hear the merry dinting of steel on steel; the
sullen _chug-chug_ of the wheels of Foul Peg, the Margrave's great
cannon, which more than once he lent our Prince; the oaths of the
men-at-arms shouldering her up, apostrophizing most indecently her fat
haunches, and the next moment getting tossed aside like ninepins by her
unexpected lurches. Ah, the times that were when I was young!

I see these gallants about our later courts--Lord help them, sons of mine
own, too, some of them--year in and year out, crossing their legs and
staring at the gilded points of their shoon. All are grown so tame--none
now to ride a-questing in the Baltic forest for border brigands
--indeed, there be no brigands to quest for.

But I forget. Time was when I looked love, and I too had shoon, aye, with
golden tips to match the armor of honor which the Prince gave me after I
had led my first regiment to victory--even as the Lady Ysolinde had said.
And noble shoes of price they were.

And I could make love, too, when I had the chance. But, nevertheless, not
more than one day in six--spending the rest in the new training of my
men, the perfecting of their equipment, the choosing of their horses, and
the providing for their stores.

God wot--it was a good time. I mind me the year when the Prince fell out
with Duke Casimir, and we played over again the old tricks with him.

Never was I gladder of any quest than that to ride within sight of the
Red Tower, and wave the blue and yellow of my master under the very
ramparts of the Wolfsberg, and almost within hearing of the inhuman
howling of its blood-hounds.

"Singe his beard!" said my master. And with a hundred riders I did it
too. For though the burghers clattered to their gates, I rode to the very
walls of the Wolfsberg, which for bravado I summoned to surrender. And
the best of it was that no man knew me. For I had grown soldierlike and
strong, and was most unlike the lad who had ridden away so meekly and
almost in tears out of the gate of that very Wolfsberg.

Of my father, thank God, I saw nothing--though I doubt not he observed my
troop. For doubtless he would be with his master--aged now, soured, and
prone to cower about behind his guard, fearing the dagger or the poisoned
bowl, seeing an enemy in every shadowy corner, and hearing the whistle of
the assassin's bullet in every wind.

And, save when an honest burgher was slain by the Black Riders, the
beasts of the kennels were fed on diet more ordinary than of old.

So we rode back with our prisoners, and as much plunder as we could screw
out of old Burgomeister Texel and his citizens by threats of sacking the
city--a deed which I was main sorry for afterwards, in the light of that
which happened at a later day. But I knew not the future then, and it was
as well. For the guilders paid nobly for the new-fashioned ordnance which
stood us in such good stead that autumn, when we had sterner work in hand
than singeing the gray beard of Duke Casimir.

Within Schloss Plassenburg things went on much as usual. Perhaps I was
lax in my wooing--I cannot tell; I loved sincerely enough, of a
certainty. Nor, after this, was I backward in telling Helene of it, and
sometimes she would love me well enough, and then again she would not. So
that I could not tell what she would be at.

Looking back upon everything now, I see clearly how that the rankling
secret thorn was the accursed understanding with the Prince, that for his
peace's sake I was to abide friendly with the Princess and let her try
her fool experiments on me. Which she did, God wot, innocently
enough--that is, for all the harm they did me. But, nevertheless, without
knowing it, I kept the Little Playmate with a sore and aching heart for
many and many a day.

But I made nothing of it--thinking, like a careless, ill-deserving
soldier-lover, eager for success and dazzled with ambition, chiefly of my
profession, of how to win battles and take fortresses against the
surrounding princelings, our Karl's enemies, till one day I found Helene
with her cheeks wet and her pretty lips bitten till the blood had come.

"What is't, little one? Tell me!" said I, going to her and putting my
arm about her, as indeed I had some right to do, if no more than the
right of having carried her up into the Red Tower in her white gown
so long ago.

But she wrested herself determinedly out of my hold, saying: "Do not
touch me, sir. 'Tis all your fault!"

"What is my fault, dear lass?" said I. "Tell me, and I will instantly
amend it."

"Oh!" she cried, casting her hands out from her in bitter complaint,
"there is nothing so meanly selfish as a man! He will say tender
things--aye, and do them, too, when it liketh him. He can be, oh, so
devoted and so full of his eternal affections. He is dying all for love!
And then, soon as he passes out of the door he ties his sword-knot and
points his mustache to his liking, and lo! there is no more of him. He
goes and straightway forgets till it shall please his High Mightiness to
call again. Oh! and we--we women, poor things, must stand about with our
mouths open, like mossy carp in a pond, and struggle and push for such
crumbs of comfort as he will deign to throw us from the full larder of
his self-satisfaction!"

This was a most mighty speech for the Little Playmate, and took me
entirely by surprise. For mostly she was still enough and quiet enough in
her ways and speakings.

"'Tis true, sweetheart, that some men are like that," I replied, gently,
"but not Hugo Gottfried, surely. When did you ever find me unkind,
unthankful, unfaithful? When went I ever away and left you alone?"

"Oh, you did--you did," she cried, the tears starting from her lovely
eyes, "or I should never have been insulted--treated lightly, spoken to
as a staled thing of courts and camps!"

And Helene sank down beside the garden wall in an abandonment of
sorrow--so that my heart grew hot and angry at the cause of her grief, to
me then unknown.

I knelt down beside her and touched her lightly on one rounded,
heaving shoulder.

"Dearest," said I, "I knew nothing of this. Tell me who has insulted you.
As God is in His heaven, I will have my sword in his heart or nightfall,
were it the Prince himself! Tell me, and by the Lord of the Innocents, I
will make him eat cold steel and drink his own blood therewith!"

"Oh, it was my own fault--I know I should not have met him--let him speak
to me in the garden. But you were so cold to me, Hugo. And then I
thought--I thought that the Woman was taking you away from me. Also she
sent me out to be--to be in his path!"

"In whose path, I bid you tell me, and what woman?"

Though the latter I knew well enough.

"The Princess," she answered, "and the Count von Reuss. To-day he spoke
to me of love, and spoke it hatefully, shamefully, when the Princess had
bidden me go and carry her message to him. But it was with me that he
desired to meet. And I--at first many days ago--I walked by his side and
listened, for then he spoke courteously and like a gentleman. For you
were on the high terrace, and I wished you to see. I thought--I hoped--"

And the little one broke off with tears.

"I know, I know!" cried I, contritely; "I am a blind, doting fool. In
this Prince's court I thought no more of such dangers than when I had
you safe and innocent, my Playmate of the Red Tower. But what did or
said Von Reuss?"

"Truly he did naught, but only spoke--things for which I would have
smitten him to death had I possessed a dagger. I bade him begone. And he
swore he would execute his purpose yet in spite of every town's
Executioner in the Empire."

"Ah, will he?" said I, a calm chill of hatred settling about my heart.
"I, Hugo Gottfried, will execute him, if I have to send for my father's
Red Axe to do it with--singed and scented monkey that he is."

"Nay," said Helene, "then I wish I had not told you. Perhaps he will not
meddle with me again, and if you cross him he may slay thee. Remember, I
have no friend here but you, Hugo!"

"Count von Reuss slay me! I could eat him up without salt or savory--a
weak reed, a kerl without backbone save of buckram; why, I will shake him
this day like a rat between my hands!"

So I spoke in my anger, hot with myself that I had let the Little
Playmate suffer these things, and resolved that neither Prince nor
Princess would stand between me and my love a moment longer.

But in all lands it takes more than Say-so to budge the stubborn wheels
of circumstance.


CHAPTER XXXI

I FIND A SECOND


I meant to go directly to the Prince in his chamber and tell him that
from this time forth Helene and I had resolved to battle out our lives
together. "People," Wieland said, "is nothing so much as to know what
they think about everything occurring and should say." Rare were the
contributions become gradual, which Goethe, Herder, Jacobi and others
before 1776, his journal, recording his very dear to him was, had
supported.

It contained more essays from his own pen, and almost all his works he
theilte piecemeal, first in the "German Mercury" with. Its almost
uninterrupted employment with the literature of the Greeks and the
Romans withdrew him philosophical and historical studies in the
widest extent of the word.

At the same time, he remained a lively interest in all the events
of the present.

The progress of the people in his Wieland Geistescultur observed with a
sharp eye. He did travel with the newer descriptions and with every major
discovery known. His lively spirit passes through the large field
of sciences and arts in all directions.

Thus, he received extensive materials about the size and small
articles for the "German Mercury."

Most of those essays charakterisirte the quest to spread enlightenment
at a time shoals where entrepreneurial minds, as the Father Gassner in
Vienna, the infamous Count Cagliostro, Messmer, uA Schröpfer the
Zeitgeist such a wonderful direction indicated that one of disbelief
on the one hand, and of superstition on the other accused.

Gently but believed to Wieland Werke going to have to, and not to
misjudge his conscientiousness in everything he wrote on religious
objects. Among his numerous studies and pursuits, he became the art of
poetry is not disloyal.

In this period of his life, the poetic narratives: "Gandelin" or
"Love to Love" and the "Winter and Sommermährchen"; "Pervonte"; of
"Vogelfang" or "the three teachings," "Hann and Gulpenheh" etc.

His Nature was coming to a decision to romantic poetry. According to his
own statements, he was convinced that "the Mährchen a higher
purpose, can create, as mere entertainment, small and large children."

For most of the above-mentioned poems had Wieland French sources are
used, the Fabliaux = = = from Chretien de Troyes =, = the Lays de
l'Oiselet = etc.

From a old French legend, Huon de Bordeaux = = titled, drew Wieland also
the substance to his "Oberon," by the poet, his fame for ever
justified.

For a peculiar beauty of the plan and the composition of his epic gave
Wieland, according to his own confessions, "the way the story of
Oberon's quarrel with his wife Titania in the history Hüons and
woven Rezia's been. " He wrote a friend: "Oberon is not only two
but if you just take it from three acts composed, namely from the
Abentheuer which Hüon on command of the Emperor to exist over the
history of his love relationship with Rezia, and the reconciliation
of Titania with Oberon.

But these three acts or fables are such in a main node devoured that none
exist without the other, or a happy outcome could win. Without Oberon's
assistance would Hüon Kaiser Carl's contract have not run without
its Rezia love, and without hope, what Oberon on the loyalty and
steadfastness of the two lovers, as tools of his own reunion with Titania
founded, this would not cause ghost prince have had such an intimate
Antheil to take their destiny.

From this, founded on mutual indispensability interweaving of their various
interests, a kind of unity that I believe the merit of novelty, and
their positive impact of the reader through his own Theilnahme to the whole
of persons acting too strongly feels that as he is any judge art
wegdisputiren could. "
Then, more low, he added, "Not the--?"

He would have said the Princess, for he paused, in his turn, with a
graver look on his face.

So I hastened with my explanation.

"He insulted the young Lady Helene, maid of honor to the Princess, who is
to me as a sister, having been brought up with me in one house. Her honor
is my honor, both by this tie, and because, as you know, we have long
loved each other. Therefore will I fight Count von Reuss to the death,
and a good cause enough."

The Prince whistled--an unprincely habit, but then all millers' lads
whistle at their work. So Prince Karl whistled as he meditated.

"I see further into this matter than that--if indeed you love this maid.
There be other things to be thought upon than vengeance upon Von Reuss!
Does the Princess know of this?"

"Suspect she may," said I; "know she cannot. It was only half an hour ago
that I knew myself."

"Ha," said he, musingly, with his beard in his hand, "it hath gone no
further than that. Were it not, if possible, better to conceal the cause
yet a while that our compact may go on? It were surely easy enough to
invent an excuse for the quarrel."

"Prince," answered I, earnestly, "this bargain of ours hath gone on over
long already, in that it hath brought a true maid's honor and happiness
in question. And a maid also whom I am bound to love. I will ask you
this, have I been a good soldier and servant to you or not?"

"Aye to that!" quoth the Prince, heartily.

"Have I ever asked fee or reward for aught I have tried to do?"

"Nay," he said; "but you have gotten some of both without asking."

"Will you grant me the first boon I have asked of you since you became
Prince and Master to Hugo Gottfried?"

"I will grant it, if it be not to separate us as friend and friend," said
my master at once.

It was like the noble Prince thus to speak of our relation. I took his
hand in mine to kiss it, but this he would not permit.

"Shake hands like a man," he said, "or else kiss me upon the cheek. My
hand is for young, blue-painted flittermice to kiss, for whose souls'
good it is to put their lips to the hand that has shifted the meal-bags."

And with that Prince Karl embraced me heartily, and kissed me on
both cheeks.

"Now for this request of yours!" said he, looking expectantly at me.

"It is this," I answered him directly: "Give me a district to govern, a
tower to dwell in, and Helene to be my wife."

"Nay, but these are three things, and you stipulated but for one. Choose
one!" he said.

"Then give me Helene to wife!" I cried, instantly.

"Spoken like a lover," said the good Prince. "You shall have her if I
have the giving of her, which I beg leave to doubt. Something tells me
that much water will run under the bridges ere that wedding comes to
pass. But so far as it concerns me the thing is done. Yet remember, I
have never been one wisely to marry, nor yet to give in marriage."

He smiled a dry, humorsome smile--the smile of a shrewd miller casting
up his thirlage upon the mill door when he sees the fields of his parish
ripe to the harvest.

"I wonder why, with her crystals and her ink-pools, the Princess hath not
foreseen this. By the blue robe of Mary, there will be proceedings when
she does know. I think I shall straightway go a-hunting in the mountains
with my friend the Margrave!"

The worst is to reach the Goncourt: they do not put three sentences
together that are not in the eye, the psychologist-eye tuna easily
hurt. - The nature and artistically presented is not a model.

It exaggerates, it distorts, it leaves gaps. The nature of the accident.
The studies "after nature" seems to me a bad sign: it verräth
subjugation, weakness, fatalism, - In this dust-loungers before
petits faits is unworthy of a whole artist.

"If there is to be no fighting of seconds, what do you say to old
Dessauer? He was a pretty blade in my time, and has all the etiquette and
chivalry of the business at his finger-ends. Also he likes you."

"At any rate, he is ever railing upon me with that sharp tongue of
his!" said I.

"But did you ever hear him rail upon any of these young men that lean
on rails and roll their eyes under ladies' windows?" said the Prince.
"Old Leopold Dessauer is even now no weakling. I warrant he could draw
a good sword yet upon occasion. Anything more lovely than his riposte I
never saw."

The Prince got upon his feet with the difficulty of a man naturally heavy
of body, who takes all his exercise upon horseback.

"Page!" he cried. "My compliments to High State's Councillor
Dessauer, and ask him to come to me here. You will find him, I think,
in the library."

So to the palace sped the boy; and presently, walking stiffly, but with
great dignity, came the old man down to us.

"How about the ancestors, the noble men my predecessors?" cried the
Prince, when he saw him; "have you found aught to link the miller of
Chemnitz with the Princes of Plassenburg?"

The Councillor smiled, and shook his head gravely.

"Nothing beyond that bit of metal which hangs by your side, Prince Karl,"
said Dessauer, pointing to his Highness's sword.

The Prince looked down at the strong, unadorned hilt thoughtfully
and sighed.

"I would I had another to transmit this sword to, as well as the power to
wield it, when I take my place as usurper in the histories of the Princes
of Plassenburg."

"I trust your Highness may long be spared to us," replied Dessauer,
gravely; "but, Prince Karl, in default of an heir to your body (of which
there is yet no reason to despair), wherefore may not your Highness
devise the realm back to the ancient line?"

"The line of Dietrich is extinct," said the Prince, booking up sharply.

"So says Duke Casimir, hoping to succeed to your shoes, when he could
not to your helmet and your sword. But I have my suspicions and my
beliefs. There is more in the parchments of yonder library than has yet
seen the light."

Suddenly the Prince recollected me, standing patiently by.

"But we waste time, Dessauer; we can speak of ancestors and successors
anon. I and Hugo Gottfried want you to take up your ancient role. Do you
mind how you snicked Axelstein, and clipped Duke Casimir of his little
finger at the back of the barn, when we were all lads at the Kaiser's
first diet at Augsburg?"

Old Dessauer smiled, well pleased enough at the excellence of the
Prince's memory.

"I have seen worse cuts," he said; "Casimir has never rightly liked me
since. And had the Black Riders caught me, over to his dogs I should have
gone without so much as a belt upon me. He would have kept them without
food for a week on purpose to make a clean job of my poor scarecrow
pickings."

"And now this young spark," said the Prince, "for the sake of a lady's
eyes, desires to do your Augsburg deed over again with Duke Casimir's
nephew. So we must give him a man with quarterings on his shield to go
along with him."

"I am too old and stiff," said Dessauer, shaking his head mournfully, yet
with obvious desire in the itching fingers of his sword-hand; "let him
seek out one of the brisk young kerls that are drumming at the
blade-play all the time down there in the square by the guard-rooms."

"Nay, it is to be principals only; there is to be no fighting of seconds.
The Count has specially desired that there shall be none," said the
Prince; "therefore, go with the lad, Dessauer."

"No fighting of seconds!" cried the Councillor, in astonishment, holding
up his hands. And I think the old swordsman seemed a little disappointed.
"Well, I will go and see the lad well through, and warrant that he gets
fair-play among these wolves of the Mark."

"Faith, when it comes to that, he is as rough-pelted a wolf of the Mark
as any of them!" laughed the Prince.


CHAPTER XXXII

THE WOLVES OF THE MARK


The Hirschgasse is a little inn across the river, well known to the
wilder blades of Plassenburg. There they go to be outside the authority
of the city magistrates, to make rendezvous with maids more complaisant
than maidenly, to fight their duels, and generally to do those things
without remark which otherwise bring them under the eye of the Miller's
Son, as they one and all call (behind his back) the reigning Prince of
Plassenburg.

It was on the stroke of seven, and as fine an evening as ever failed to
touch the soul of sinful man with a sense of its beauty, that I set out
to fight the nephew of Duke Casimir. I had indeed ridden far and fast,
and withal kept my head since I left the Red Tower a poor homeless
wanderer, otherwise I had scarce found myself going out with High
Councillor Leopold von Dessauer as my second to fight my late master's
heir, the proximate Duke of the Wolfmark.

What was my surprise to find the old man attired in the appropriate
costume for such an occasion, a close-fitting suit of dark gray, of
ancient cut indeed, and without the fashionable slashes and scallops, but
both correct and practicable, either for the sword-play or the proper
ordering of it in others.

Von Dessauer laughed a little dry laugh when I congratulated him on the
youthfulness of his appearance. Indeed, he seemed little grateful for my
felicitations. And if it had not been for the rheumatism which he had
inherited from his father's campaigns on the tented field, and the
weakness which came from his own in other fields, he would yet have
proved as fit for the play of fence as any youngster of them all. So, at
least, he averred. And to-night the wind was southerly, and his old hurts
irked him not. Faith he was almost minded to try a ruffle with the cocks
of the Mark on his own account.

"Mind you," he said, "guard low. The attack of the Mark ever comes from
the right leg, half-way to the knee. But I forgot--what use is it to
tell you, that are born of the Mark, and have learned sword-cunning in
their schools?"

As we left the castle I looked about and secretly kissed a hand to that
high window, where was the chamber of my Little Playmate, whose cause I
was going out so gladly to champion.

Dessauer and I went quickly down through the lanes which led to the river
edge where the ferry was, and more than once with the comer of my eye I
seemed to see a man in a cloak and sword stealing after us. But as the
sight of a man so attired going secretly in the direction of the
Hirschgasse was no uncommon one, I did not pay any particular attention.

We crossed over in the large flat-boat which plied constantly between the
banks before our fine new bridge was built. We found our enemies on the
ground before us, and they seemed more than a little surprised when they
perceived who my second was. For as we came up the bank I saw them go
close and whisper together like men who hastily alter their plans at the
last moment.

I presented my second in form.

"The High Councillor Leopold von Dessauer, Knight of the Empire!" said I,
proudly enough.

Then the Count presented his, as the custom then was among us of
the North:

"His Excellency Friedrich, Count of Cannstadt, Hereditary Cup-bearer of
the Wolfmark."

Count Cannstadt was an impecunious old-young man, who, chiefly owing to
accumulated gaming-debts and a disagreement with Duke Casimir concerning
the payment of certain rents and duties, had sought the shelter of the
Castle of Plassenburg--a refuge which the generous Prince Karl extended
to all exiles who were not proven criminals.

The seconds bowed first to each other, and then to their opposing
principals. In those days, duels were mostly fought with the combatants'
own swords. And now Von Dessauer took my blade, and, going forward
courteously, handed the hilt to Count Cannstadt, receiving that of Von
Reuss in return. The seconds then compared the lengths, and found almost
half an inch in favor of my opponent. Which being declared, and I
offering no objection, the discrepancy was allowed and the swords
returned us to fall to.

And this without further parley we did.

I was no ways afraid of my opponent. For though a pretty enough, tricky
fighter, he had little practical experience. Also he had quite failed to
strengthen himself by daily custom, and especially by practice at
outrauce, with an enemy keen to run you through in front of you, and the
necessity of keeping a wary eye on half a dozen other conflicts on either
hand, as has constantly to be done in war.

The place where we fought was on a level green platform a little way
above the roofs of the inn of the Hirschgasse, where many a similar
conflict has been fought, and on which many a good fellow has lain,
panting like a grassed trout, with the gasps growing slower and deadlier,
while his opponent wiped his blade on the trampled herbage, and the
seconds looked on with folded arms. There were many bushes and rocks
about, and the place was very secluded to be so near a great city.

At first I did not trouble myself much, nor attempt to force the
fighting. I was content to hold Von Reuss in play, and defend myself till
the hunger edge of his attack was dulled. For I saw on his face a look of
vicious confidence that surprised me, considering his inexperience, and
he lunged with a venom and resolution which, to my mind, betokened a
determination to kill at all hazards.

I knew, however, that presently he must overreach himself, so of set
purpose I kept my blade short, and let him approach nearer. Immediately
he began to press, thinking that he had me at his mercy. We had fought
our way round to a spot on the upper side of the plateau, where for a
moment Von Reuss had a momentary benefit from the nature of the ground.
Here I felt that he gathered himself together, and, presently, as I had
supposed he would, he centred his energy in a determined thrust at my
left breast. This was well enough timed, for my guard had been short and
a little high on purpose to lead him on, and now it took me all my time
to turn his point aside. I saw the steel shoot past, grazing my left arm.
Then with so long a recovery, and the loss of balance from lunging
downhill, he was at my mercy.

As I did not wish to kill him I chose my spot almost at my leisure, and
pinked him two inches below the spring of the neck and close to the
collar-bone, which was running the thing as fine as I could allow myself.

What was my surprise to see my sword-blade arch itself as if it had
stricken a stone wall, and to hear the unmistakable ring of steel
meeting steel.

"Treachery!" cried Von Dessauer and I together; "you are villains both.
He is wearing a shirt of mail!"

And the old man rushed forward with his sword bare in his hand and all
a-tremble with indignation.

I heard the shrill "purl" of a silver call, and, turning me about, there
was the gambler Cannstadt with a whistle at his lips. I dared not turn my
head, for I had still to guard myself against the traitor Von Reuss's
attack, but with the tail of my eye I could see two or three men rise
from behind bushes and rocks, and come running as fast as they could
towards us. Then I knew that Dessauer and I were doomed men unless
something turned up that we wotted not of. For with an old man, and one
so stiff as the High Councillor, for my only ally, it was impossible for
me to hold my own against more than double our numbers.

Nevertheless, Von Dessauer attacked Cannstadt with surprising fury and
determination, anger glittering in his eye, and resolution to punish
treachery lending vigor to his thrust. I had not time to observe his
method save unconsciously, for I had to change my position momentarily
that I might take the points of the two men who came down the hill at
speed, sword in hand.

But all this foul play among high-born folk gave me a kind of mortal
sickness. To die in battle is one thing, but over against the very roofs
of your home to find yourself brought to death's door by murderous
treachery is quite another.

At this moment there came news of a diversion. From below was heard the
crying of a stormy voice.

"Halt! I command you! Halt!"

And wheeling sufficiently to see, I observed through the twilight the
figure of a stout man, who came leaping heavily up the hill towards us,
waving a sword as he came. Well, thought I, the more there are of them
the quicker it will be over, and the more credit for us in keeping up our
end so long. Better die in a good fight than live with a bad conscience.

With which admirable reflection I sent my sword through Von Reuss's
sword-arm, in the fleshy part, severing the muscle and causing him to
drop his blade. I had him then at my mercy, and experienced a great
desire to push my blade down his throat, for a treacherous cowardly
hound as he had proved himself to me. But instead of this I had to turn
towards the other two who came at the charge down the hill and were now
close upon us.

I had just time to leap aside from the first and let him overrun himself
when he shot almost upon the sword of the thick-set man, who came up the
hill shouting to us to stop. The second man I engaged, and a stanch blade
I found him, though fighting for as dirty a cause as ever man crossed
swords in.

"Halt!" came the voice of command again--the voice I knew so well--"in
the name of the State I bid you cease!"

It was the voice of Karl, Prince of Plassenburg.

"We must take the rough with the smooth now. We must kill them, every
one, like stanch men of the Mark!" cried Von Reuss. "There is no safety
for any of us else." And in a moment we were at it, the Prince furiously
assaulting the second of the bravoes who came down the hill. More coolly
than I had given him credit for, Von Reuss stuffed a silken kerchief into
the hole in his shoulder, and repossessed himself of his weapon in his
other hand.

It was the briskest kind of a bicker that ensued for a little while there
on the bosky, broomy hill-side in the evening light. Ah, Dessauer was
down at last and Cannstadt at his throat! I went about with a whirl,
leaving my own man for the moment, and rushed upon the Count's false
second. He turned to receive me, but not quite quick enough, for I got
him two inches below where I had pinked his principal's ring-mail, and
that made all the difference. Cannstadt did not immediately drop his
sword. But his limbs weakened, and he fell forward without a sound.

Then as I looked about, there was the Prince manfully crossing swords
with two, and the cowardly Von Reuss creeping up with his sword shortened
in his left hand with intent to slay him from behind.

Whereat I gave a furious cry of anguish, that I should have been the
means of bringing my noble master into such peril. The Prince Karl had at
the same moment some intuition of the treacherous foe behind him, for he
leaped aside with more agility than I had ever seen him display before on
foot, and Von Reuss was too sorely wounded to follow.

Presently I was at my first bravo again, and the Prince being left with
but one, Von Reuss took the opportunity to slip away over the hill.

The rest of the conflict was not long a-settling. There were loud voices
from the stream beneath. The combat had been observed, and half a score
of the Prince's guard were already swimming, wading, and leaping into
small boats in their haste to be first to our assistance.

But we did not need their aid. I passed my blade through and through my
assailant, almost at the same moment that the Prince spiked his man so
directly in the throat, so that the red point stood out in the hollow of
his neck behind.

Both went down simultaneously, and there was Von Reuss on horseback, just
disappearing over the ridge. Prince Karl wiped his brow.

"What devil's traitors!" he cried. "Poor Dessauer, I wonder what he has
gotten? Let us go to him."

We went across the plateau together, and knelt by the side of the old
man. At first I could not find the wound, though there was blood enough
upon his face and fencing-habit. But presently I discovered that his
scalp had been cut from above the eye backwards to the crown of his
head--a shallow, ploughing scratch, no more, though it had effectually
stunned the old man.

Even as I held him in my arms, he came to and looked about him.

"Are they all dead?" he said, feeling about for his sword.

"You were nearly dead, dearest of friends," said my master. "But be
content. You have done very well for so young a fighter. An you behave
yourself, and keep from such brawling in the future, I declare I will
give you a company!"

Dessauer smiled.

"All dead?" he asked, trying still to look about him.

"Your man is dead, or the next thing to it, two other rascals grievously
wounded, and the scoundrel Von Reuss fled, as well he might. But my
archers are already on his track."

Up the hill came Jorian and Boris leading the rout.

"Is the Prince safe?" cried Jorian.

"The Prince is safe," said Karl, answering for himself.

"Good!" chorussed Jorian, Boris, and all the archers together.

"Catch me that man on horseback there!" cried the Prince. "Take him or
kill him, but if you can help it do not let him escape. He is the Count
von Reuss, and a double traitor."

"Good!" cried the pair, and set off after him, all dripping as they were
from their abrupt passage of the river.


CHAPTER XXXIII

THE FLIGHT OF THE LITTLE PLAYMATE


We carried Dessauer back to the boat with the utmost tenderness, the
Prince walking by his side, and oft-times taking his hand. I followed
behind them, more than a little sad to think that my troubles should have
caused so good and true a man so dangerous a wound. For though in a young
man the scalp-wound would have healed in a week, in a man of the High
Councillor's age and delicacy of constitution it might have the most
serious effects.

But Dessauer himself made light of it.

"I needed a leech to bleed me," he said. "I was coward enough to put off
the kindly surgery, and here our young friend has provided me one
without cost. His last operation, too, and so no fee to pay. I am a
fortunate man."

We came to the gate of the Palace of Plassenburg.

My Lady Princess met us, pale and obviously anxious, with lips compressed
and a strange cold glitter in her emerald eyes.

"So strange a thing has happened!" she began.

"No stranger than hath happened to us," cried the Prince.

"Why, what hath happened to you?" she demanded, quickly.

"Your fine Von Reuss has proved himself a traitor. He fought a duel with
Hugo here all tricked in chain-armor, and when found out he whistled his
rascals from the covert to slay us. But we bested him, and he is over the
hill, with Jorian and Boris hot after his heel."

"And he hath not gone alone!" said the Princess, and her eyes were
brilliant with excitement.

"Not gone alone?" said the Prince. "What do you know about this
black work?"

"Because Helene, my maid of honor, hath fled to join him," she
said, looking anxiously at us, like one who perils much upon a
throw of the dice.

I laughed aloud. So certain was I of the utter impossibility of the
thing, that I laughed a laugh of scorn. And I saw the sound of my voice
jar the Lady Ysolinde like a blow on the face.

"You do not believe!" she said, standing straight before me.

"I do not believe--I know!" answered I, curtly enough.

"Nevertheless the thing is true," she said, with a curious, pleading
expression, as if she had been charged with wrong-doing and were clearing
herself, though none had accused her by word or look.

"It is most true," the Princess went on. "She fled from the palace an
hour before sundown. She was seen mounting a horse belonging to Von
Reuss at the Wolfmark gate, with two of his men in attendance upon her.
She is known to have received a note by the hand of an unknown messenger
an hour before."

I did not wait for the permission of the Princess, but tore up the
women's staircase to Helene's room, where I found nothing out of
place--not so much as a fold of lace. After a hurried look round I was
about to leave the room when a crumpled scrap of paper, half hidden by a
curtain, caught my eye.

I stooped and picked it up. It was written in an unknown and probably
disguised hand--a hand cumbersome and unclerkly:

"Come to me. Meet me at the Red Tower. I need you."

There was no more; the signature was torn away, and if the letter were
genuine it was more than enough. Besides the completion of the "Agathon"
said Wieland was his comical stories "(the Urtheil of Paris,
Endymion, Juno, and Ganymede, and Aurora cephalus). 1768, his poem
"Musarion", two years later, "and Idris Zenide"; this in the first
half of the "New Amadis" and a portion of the poem: "the Graces."

In a letter to Wieland Geßner confessed: "the spirit of poetic frenzy
so powerful it had taken his leisure that he does not know better filled
than with rhymes."

At some poetic drafts, with which Wieland had belonged soon abandoned
the idea Alexander the Great to the Heroes an epic poem to be chosen.

Longer he stayed in the draft of a poem, which, under the title
"Mental Health" the purest flower of true philosophy and also a
"critical natural history of our soul" should be included.

Against the accusation he made in several of his poems too muthwilligen,
sarcastic tone angestimmt have sought to justify Wieland.

"I confess," he wrote, "the irony is my favorite character, and I
flatterer me some talent to do so.

Of course it's a pretty dangerous talent, but luckily I was the
nature of a good and honest heart of style.

My Menschenhaß is made. I love the nature of humanity and the
people, and if I also have the defects of one, and the weaknesses
of others scoff, it's done usually friendly, and with the intention
of them joking salutary truths to tell the sometimes you just do
not care to say.

"Great sensation excited the pertness, which Wieland the Platonism
in love, which he had previously gehuldigt, with all the weapons
of wit fought.

The voice of public criticism warned against the tendency of his
writings, because they contain a poison which, ever sweeter, so was
dangerous. With regret, we spoke of the abuse of his great and
rare talent, and even went so far as to him as a poet to describe the
love of lust is no longer seemed to differ. Wieland's Agathon "in Zurich
had been banned. For the "Don Sylvio Rosalva of 'in Ulm, he must find
a publisher. On the hardest were fairly consistent Urtheile on
Wieland's "Strange Stories."

Even more painful than the public disapproval of his writings, Wieland
was the idea in the good opinion of his friends declined to Seyn. He,
once so warm of virtue and religion, the word was spoken, seemed now a
Epikuräer and skeptics. From the poet included it back to the
people.

His warmest friends, among others Zimmermann, holy night seemed the
rumors, spread over Wieland widespread moral change, not all beliefs
to fail.

In a letter to Julie Wieland Bondeli justified himself against the
accusations he made. "I was," he wrote, "formerly Enthusiast in respect
of religion, metaphysics and morality, and I was quite sincere. This
was my way to Seyn, or the result of hundreds of thousands of physical
and moral causes. Have I now but also in a sense ceased to Seyn Enthusiast,
I am no less a friend of the truth, and find the virtue no less
lovable when I no longer equal to the pre-existence of the soul
think, and the image of a winged seraph rosenfarbnen Azur and gold
no longer be ecstatic. erkünstelte Speculation These are nothing
more than stilts, on which human vanity like einherschreitet pleasant
fantasies, in which souls are voluptuous delight.

I had to either my Platonism reformiren, or a hermitage in Tyrol attention
to because to live. The experience has me a delusion after another taken,
and finally I came into balance.

I hope to convince you that I always, even with my mistakes, the
character of an honest man had claimed. For a virtuous pattern hab 'ich
I never kept.

You will find that my mind sometimes thöricht, but my heart was always good.
It keeps me a libertine, and a lot to me giebt mistress. The truth is
that I am in friendly and kinship relationships with two or three
ladies standing, not its shape, but because of their merits, deserve
respect and that I have some fleeting affections for young people
had the heirathen I should, I do not know why.

All my love - and I have since their my seventeenth years at least
had a full dozen - have caused me great pain.

They were all of the type that you = = called passions, all my lovers were
goddesses, which I worship, and I have probably several times until
the Platonic Love driven to a heroism which I no longer feel capable.

Forget this one but finally Donquiroterien moral of my youth!

If serious and strict people surprise me as the author of my new
works to see, so I went to complain, they can scold me, but they
should not go so far, so holy night to think of my morals and my
character. " With the inner consciousness of the moral purity of
his feelings had to Wieland comfort, as it met the groundless
suspicion of intemperance and lust shown at Seyn.

Was it also the Platonism in love has become suspicious, so he could not
but in the worst sense Epikuräer of the word apply. The fact that in his
new poetic works of sensuality, the word seemed to speak, was a mere
play of his imagination.

He thought nothing evil in him the alleged descriptions given to it under
arduous official transactions and consolation Erheitrung granted.

None Antheil insignificant at the time of his tendency Products also had
the choice of his Lectüre.

Lucian, Horace, Cervantes, and especially Ariost stars, were his
favorite writers.

On the side of his wife Dorothea Brandt Hill Wieland felt very happy,
although they, according to his own confessions , no "Musarion" was.

In a space of fifteen years, he had some experience of love is that they
are probably in a pattern of breastfeeding was worth. Even in
earlier times Wieland had designed the plan, a "philosophical
history of love "to write.

This plan remained unexecuted, but he offered him the substance of
his poem" Idris and Zenide, "in which he intended to present different
kinds of love against each other, in contrast to, and to this Behuf
different characters in peculiar situations to develop it.

Essentially unchanged reversed the idea that the above poem was
based on Wieland, in his "New Amadis" again, with whom he is employed
at the same time.

Ariost Roland's racing was his role model. The triumph of nature over
the craze, the truth about the hypocrisy of glorifying, after Wieland's
own words, the task that he is in his "New Amadis" presented. From
the model given to him in this poem vorgeschwebt had removed it
in his "Graces."

According to his own statements he wanted to in this poem "the transition
of people from the professional nature to a refined level of education"
described. Of the impression that his writings on the audience did,
nobody was less than Wieland himself from public criticism, often were
biased and partisan, he could feel those not know.

It was also in his relationships that he had ever with the way the
literature has remained unknown.

Most of the time he brought in the office, in the Rathscheck Sessions
and his Actentisch to the evening without another company to find
than on a card table or in home Cirkeln where he Literaturkenntniß
just could not expand.

By habit he had not felt uncomfortable in this monotonous life circles,
and his apparent resentment often looked indestructible sense of
humor show. "If I," he wrote, "sometimes also schwermüthig be had, with
the garter in the hands of me after a suitable start around nail, so I
reflect all, but until it is nothing - a convincing evidence that
I have something in my states find that the temptation to hang me,
at least keeps the balance.

"These lines Wieland had before his Verheirathung written. His very happy
marriage also showed him his situation, so bitter he also had often
complained, in a less unfavorable light. In one of his former letters,
he asked a friend, "the matter is not so awful even present." About
the afternoons, Wieland said, he could freely disponiren, and his
business he went slightly out of hand.

"I am also," he added, "one of the expeditivsten Schwabenland people
throughout the country. Only a small Tusculanum is me, and will until I
die (which over the next twenty years is little hope) I see no possibility
of one to get.

In the absence of which I have very close to the city, but in a
somewhat lonely places, a gazebo-like gemiethet where I am the most pleasant
country views of the world did, and so near my home in the city, but
entirely on the 'm landing.

Here I bring in the summer most of my idle hours, = = solus cum sola, alone
or with the Muses, nymphs faunas and grass, which I from time to
time have some of the face, which the abstemious hermit would leave
unturned.

I smell the sweet smell of fresh hay's, I see cut and prepare flax.
On the one hand, reminds me of the distance of the cemetery where the bones
of my ancestors lie, that I should live so long and well as I can, on
the other hand, attracts me a half-hidden by bushes fernher gallows
from the desire that a half-dozen rogue, which I quite defiant tête
= = Levée look around, want to hang out.

I see mills, villages, individual farms, a long pleasant Thal, which is
between trees with a great village with a beautiful snow-white
church Thurm ends, and about the same also a number of blue mountains.

That together, a prospect that I have anything bad to me Seyn can
forget, and, with this Prospect before me, I sit at a small table, and -
Reims. "Because of his future when he looks so lost could safely Seyn
Wieland. unermüdete By punctuality and professional loyalty, he had the
respect and trust of his Superior acquired. überhoben His economic
circumstances worry him.

Never before had the desire in him geregt his situation with others
to swap.

He therefore knew his friends initially little thanks, as it a different
position to gain, as they believed that with his abilities and
inclinations more harmonirte. hingeworfene A fleeting expression
Wieland, that he was not averse would be an academic to hold Lehramt
had in the Chur Main hiss v.

Minister big blow him in Warthausen know, the idea awakened him to Erfurt
to draw. Wieland fluctuated for a time, whether he calls given to him
to follow.

Satisfied with his past relationships, tied his family, parents and
parents-in-law to his father town Biberach.

He also was afraid of his new situation, some inconvenience. The promotion
was the first thing he wanted to avoid.

Magisterarbeit becoming Wieland said, would be for him to be less to send,
since he "had the honor, Comes palatii = = Caesarei to Seyn, and
by means of his diploma itself was capable of, master of liberal
arts at creiren."

Some of these obstacles cleared Wieland Freund, Professor Riedel
of Erfurt, across.

What it mainly certain Erfurt's reputation after it was the idea that he
awaited the leisure to literary work hoped to gain.

That letter, in which he accepted a professorship of philosophy
with the character of a Churfürstl.

Raths Main hiss and a government salary of 600 Rthlrn. has been
assured was contained at the same time flattering speech, that his name
is the main motive would have been him to Erfurt to draw. It
was explicitly stated in that letter, "has satisfied if he only come,
he should also thun nothing else than Seyn there and do what he
himself likes.

"This prospect of an unlimited literary Thätigkeit had so much atractive
for Wieland, that he decided to call it to Erfurt, and the Master
Promotion is subject to so many, he also, as mentioned earlier ,
had objection.

In the last period of his stay in Biberach employed him some literary
plans which he hoped realisiren to Erfurt. He wanted others to
"Letters on Literature" writing, and in small ribbon in the world to
fly leave. "The leisure, which his firm treat any business, he used to
be a revision of his poetic writings, which then should be re-printed.
Längst disintegrated with his former friends Bodmer, even of
derision poems against him was followed by Wieland, the beautiful
gratefully remembering past, only the inspirations of his heart
when he was collecting those "old and venerable friends, the Lord
canon Breitinger and Professor Bodmer" both with a very flattering
devoted Dedication.

On June 1, 1769 Wieland arrived in Erfurt that by heat, dust and other
inconveniences of the journey so completely exhausted that he,
according to his own statements, "a Knight of the sad shape of a
large portion of similar saw as one of the seven sages."

The fate brought him back into returned to the city where he began his
philosophical studies, but had no inclination to be an academic Lehramt
had difficulties in itself. Apart from his friends he found in Riedel
of Erfurt Meusel, Chr H.

Schmid, the author of a widely read theory of poetry, the just as famous
as the infamous Dr. = = Bahrdt uA None of these talented people
had already festbegründeten such a literary reputation, as Wieland,
of several of its already Workforce For this I would love to be
envied.

Excellent felt they violated by his appointment as the first Professor
of philosophy. New food received their envy, as Wieland after a half
years also to the extraordinary Assessor = = Collegii Academici was
appointed. On his friend, the Professor Riedel, Wieland limited its use.
With the other teachers of Erfurt University, he came in contact a few.
The joys of social life that are never special attraction for him
had, in Erfurt almost entirely to deprive him was not difficult.

Substitute for it offered him a friendly garden apartment in the
Gasthof zum Schwan, bulkhead behind the monastery.

This asylum satisfied in all respects to moderate its demands. He felt
happy, his family, himself and the Muses to be able to live undisturbed,
as it continues its conditions had allowed in Biberach. His Teacher,
he opened with presentations on the history of mankind, according
to a well-known works of Iselin on this subject.

Later, he delivered lectures on the history of philosophy, read
on the general theory of the fine arts, and explained some comedies
of Aristophanes and the letters of Horace.

Also, he gave a historical and critical overview of the best Greek, Latin,
Italian, French and English writers. On lovable showed Wieland in his
family circles. In a letter to his girlfriend Sophie la Roche, he
confessed that he had "the pleasure of working with his young children
to play, all pleasures of the world prefer." That said, he owes to
the Graces, which has for him "very important deities" would. For overnight
shipment under the name of this poem drafted him that he had completed
in 1770, Wieland said: "The Graces thun infinitely good to me, they give
my poems charm, serenity and I sometimes even more often satisfied
with my conclusion, in short, they are my protective goddesses, and
I will them to the last moments of life to serve.

"Nothing less than the ideal of a wise man, the" Diogenes of Sinope "Seyn,
whose" dialogues "Wieland, even during the summer of 1770 was released.
Even without a predilection for this Lucian Sonderling, Wieland had
been for the study of interest, as a man probably would have Seyn _können_,
on the so strange and contradictory rumors prevailed. His heroes were less
Wieland Cynismus outlaw life and more wisdom than he previously had
usually allowed. The small factory, in which serious and comic, sentimental
and satirical portrayals alternated, is particularly recommended by a
basic philosophy of Socrates.
Nevertheless, when we met, she was more than kind to me--gentle,
forbearing, pathetic almost in bearing and demeanor, like as a woman
wronged, slighted, misconstrued.

Also there was sent to my quarters a new banner for my following,
broidered and blazoned in yellow and blue, a saddle-cloth of silk for my
horse, fine as a woman's robe, with a crowned Y faint and small in the
corner, lettered in straw-colored gold. No man could help being touched
by such kindly thought, which, after all, is more than mere liberality.

Yet I saw a sight upon her stairs one night which awoke me with a sudden
start to the fact that we had one to reckon with in our journeying to the
city of Thorn whom we had not as yet taken into consideration.

For it chanced that I was passing up to the Prince's apartments by the
quicker way, through corridors and by stairs to which he had given me
private access. And there, upon the steps leading to the Lady Ysolinde's
rooms, I saw the decent servitor of Master Gerard stand waiting. He
stared as hard at me as I did at him. But whereas his smooth, silent,
secret face remained with me, and I knew him at a glance, it was, I
judged, clean impossible that he could know the beardless stripling in
the mustached leader of soldiers, walking well-accustomed and unafraid
through palaces.

The man had a letter in his hand, and I saw him deliver it to a maid who
came to the dividing curtain to take it.

So there was later news from the city of Thorn within the Palace of
Plassenburg than we of the Prince's council of three possessed. Should I
tell our Karl of this encounter? I thought it might be safer not. Because
the Prince was the last man to attempt to obtain aught from his wife by
compulsion, and any question, direct or indirect, might only put her upon
her guard.

If I let him into the secret, the Prince would be most likely to stride
straight into the Princess's rooms with the brusque words: "Gottfried has
seen a letter come to you from your father--what were its contents?"

And that would not suit us at all.

So, rightly or wrongly, I kept the matter from my master, speaking of it
only to Dessauer. And if aught befel from my reticence, it was at least I
myself who bore the burden, and, in the final event, paid the penalty.


CHAPTER XXXVI

YSOLINDE'S FAREWELL


The next morning early, as I went about making my dispositions, and
putting men of trust in positions fit for them--for the Prince has given
me the command of all the soldiers within the city--the Lady Ysolinde
came to me upon the terrace.

"Walk with me a while," she said, "in the lower garden. It is a quiet
place, and I would speak with you."

It was a command that I dared not refuse to obey, yet my greatest enemy
would not accuse me that I went lightly or willingly to such a tryst.

The Lady Ysolinde passed on daintily and proudly before me, and I
followed, more like a condemned criminal lamping heavily to the scaffold
than a lad of mettle accompanying a fair lady to a rendezvous of her own
asking under the greenwood-tree.

But I need not have feared. The Princess's mood was mild, and I saw her
in a humor in which I had never seen her before.

She moved before me over the grass, with her head a little turned up to
the skies, as though appealing out of her innocence to the Beings who sat
behind and sorted out the hearts of men and women.

At a great weeping-elm, under which was a seat, she turned. It formed a
wide canopy of shade, grateful and cool. For the breezes stirred under
the leaves, and the river moved beneath with a pleasant, meditative
hush of sound.

"Hugo Gottfried, once you were my friend," she began; "what have I done
that you should be my friend no more? Tell me plainly. I liked you when
as a lad, the son of the Red Axe, you had come to my father's house about
some boyish freak. I have not done ill by you since that day. And now
that you are a leader of men and of rank and honor here in my husband's
country of Plassenburg, I would be your well-wisher still. I am conscious
of no reason for my having forfeited your liking. But that I would know
for certain--and now."

As she threw back her head and let her clear emerald eyes rest upon me, I
never saw woman born of woman look more innocent. Indeed, in these days
of mistrust, it is innocence under suspicion which usually looks most
guilty, knowing what is expected of it.

"Lady Ysolinde," I made answer, "you try me hard and sore. You put me by
force in the wrong. You do me indeed great honor, as you have ever done
all these years. In reverence and high respect I shall ever hold you for
all that you have done--for your kindness to me and to Helene, the orphan
girl who came from our father's roof with me. I know no reason why there
should be any break in our friendship--nor shall there be, if you will
pardon my folly and--"

"Tush!" she said, impetuously; "you speak things empty, vain, the
rattling of knuckle-bones in a bladder--not live words at all. Think you
I have never listened to true men? Do not I, Ysolinde of Plassenburg,
know the sound of words that have the heart behind them? I have heard you
speak such yourself. Do not insult me then with platitudes, nor try to
divert me with the piping of children in the market-place. I will not
dance to them, nor yet, like a foolish kitchen-wench, smile at the
jingling of your trinketry."

"Your Highness--" I began again.

She waved her hand as if putting a light thing away.

"I was a woman to you before you knew that I was a Princess," she said;
"you need not forget that I am a woman still, cursed with the plate-mail
of rank added to the weariness and inaction of a woman's breaking heart."

I grew acutely conscious that I was not distinguishing myself in this
interview. So I dashed again at the wall, and this time, for a moment at
least, overbore interruption.

"Ysolinde, my dear lady," I said to her, "you are the Prince's and my
good master's wife. And if I have stood aloof, it is that I wished that
he should have the companionship which one day I desire to find for
myself--and also that I might always have the right to look straight into
my master's eyes."

"Now you talk like a silly prating priestling," she said. "You are both
mighty careful of your honesty, your virtue, your companionship--your
precious master and you. But you do not think what it is to starve a
woman's heart, to bid her find her level among broiderers of bannerets
and stitchers in tapestry. Ah! if the particular God who happened to be
at the digging of us out of the happier pit of oblivion had only made me
a man, I, at least, should neither have been a straitlaced Jackanapes nor
yet a prating, callow-bearded wiseacre."

"And am I either?" said I, weakly enough.

"You are in danger of becoming both," she said, promptly. "Once I saw
better things in you. I thought I had won me a friend, and that for once
I might put my anchor down. My husband neglects me, so much cannot have
escaped your eagle eye. He is twice my age, and he thinks more of you,
more of Councillor Von Dessauer, more of his horse than of me, Ysolinde
of Plassenburg. And I was made to be loved and to love. How much of
either, think you, have I ever known? The true lot of a woman shut to me,
the sweet love of man and woman wiled from me, even the communion of the
spirit forbidden. I might as lief carry a wizened nut-kernel within my
brain-pan as a thinking soul, for all that any one cares. I am a woman of
another age stranded on the shores of a time made only for men. I am the
woman priests talk against, or perhaps rather the witch-woman Lilith on
the outside of Eden's wall. Or I may be the woman of a time yet to come,
when she who is man's mate shall not be only a gay-decked bird to sit on
his wrist, tethered with a leash and called back to her master with a
silver lure."

These things I had never listened to before, nor, indeed, thought of.
Nevertheless, though I could not answer her, I felt in my heart that
she was wrong, and that a woman has always power over men, being
stronger than all ideals, philosophies, kingdoms--aye, even our holy
religion itself.

"After all," I said, piqued a little at her tone, as men are wont to be
at that which they do not understand, "my Lady Ysolinde, wherefore should
you not tell these things to the Prince, your husband, and not to me,
that am neither your husband nor your lover?"

"And if you had been both?" she interjected, a little breathlessly.

"Then, my lady," I replied, stirred by her persistence, "you would have
obeyed me and served me just as you say. Or else I should have broken
your spirit as a man is broken on the wheel."

It was a prideful saying, and one informed with all ignorance and
conceit. Yet the Lady Ysolinde gave a long sigh.

"Ah, that would have been sweet, too," she said. "You are the one man I
should have delighted to call master, to have done your bidding. That had
been a thing different indeed! But you love me not. You love a chit, a
chitterling--a pretty thing that can but peep and mutter, whose
heart's depths I have sounded with my finger-nail, and whose babyish
vanity I have tickled with a straw."

This was enough and too much.

"Madam," said I, "the clear stars are not fouled by throwing filth at
them, nor yet the Lady Helene--whom I do acknowledge that with all my
heart I love--by the speaking of any ill words. You do but wrong
yourself, most noble lady. For your heart tells you other things, both of
the maid I love and of me that am her true servant, and, if I might, your
true friend."

The Princess reached out her hand, looking, not with anger, but rather
wistfully at me, like a mother at a son who goes to his death with
blasphemy on his lips.

"Forgive me," she said, gently. "I would not at the last have you go
forth thinking ill of me. Indeed, you think all too well, and make me do
things that are better than mine intent, because I know that you expect
them of me. I have done many ill and cruel things in my poor life, simply
from idleness and the empty, unsatisfied heart. If you had loved me or
taught me or driven me, I might have tried better things. Perhaps in the
end, for great love's sake, I may yet do one worthy deed that shall blot
out all the rest. Farewell!"

And without another spoken word she moved away, and left me in the green
pleasaunces of the garden, with my heart riven this way and that, scarce
knowing what I did or where I stood.


CHAPTER XXXVII

CAPTAIN KARL MILLER'S SON


Black, blank, chill, confining night shut us in as Leopold Dessauer and I
rode out of Plassenburg. Our horses had been made ready for us at the
little water-gate in the lower garden. Fain would I have taken also
Jorian and Boris, but on this occasion the fewer the safer. For to enter
Thorn was to go with lighted matches into a powder-magazine.

The rushes in the river rustled dry and cold along the brink. The leaves
of the linden-trees chuckled overhead, rubbing their palms together
spitefully. There was mockery of our foolhardy enterprise in the soft
whispering sough of the water, as I heard it lapper beneath the
ferry-boat that lay ready to cross to the other side. Old Hans, the
Prince's ferryman, snored in his boat. Above in the women's chambers a
light went to and fro. I judged that it was in the bower of the Lady
Ysolinde. But not a string of my heart moved. For pity is so weak and
love so strong that all my nature was now on the strain forward towards
Helene and the Wolfsberg, like an eager hound that pulls at the
unslipped leash.

"My love! my love!" I cried in my heart, "I am coming to you, I am going
out to find you! Though I give my life for it, I shall at least see and
touch you ere I die."

For during these last days my love had grown greatly upon me, being of
that kind which gathers within a man, banks up, fills out his crevices,
and he know it not. In the Wolfmark there are oft, in the heart of the
limestone, caverns where the water sleeps deep and cool, while above, on
the thin, rocky crust, the sun beats and the very lizards die for lack
of moisture. It was only now that I had broken up the crust of my nature
and found the caverns under, where love was abiding all undreamed of,
deep, and eternal as the sea. It is a great thing and a beautiful to
meet love for the first time face to face, not to nod to only as to an
acquaintance, and to know how great and masterful he is; to say, "Love,
I am yours. Do with me that which seemeth good to you. I was strong--now
in your hands am I become weak. I was proud--now am I glad to be humble
and kneel, waiting your word. You have made life and death the same
thing to me, for the sake of the Beloved. I am ready to take either from
your hands!"

But enough! We were riding out of the dark pleasaunces of the palace, the
leaves were rustling and the sedges blowing. That was what began it,
carrying away my thoughts.

Dessauer rode behind me, letting his horse follow mine, nose to tail.
For, being used to the visitation of the city outposts, I knew the ground
thoroughly.

At every hundred yards we were halted, and I answered. For I had posted
the men myself, making sure that Plassenburg should not again be taken by
surprise. On the other hand, I had determined that the spoiler should now
be made despoiled, and that the foul den of the Wolf should be cleansed
as by fire.

Then, like the breaking up of the Baltic ice in spring, the thought ran
through me--my father and the maid of the Red Tower, what of them?

Why, at the very first (so I told myself), I should set a guard of the
best troops in Plassenburg about the Red Tower, and carry them
all--Helene, my father, and old Hanne--to a safe place till Prince Karl
and I had made an end. With our stark veterans swarming in Thorn, that
would easily be done. And so the plan abode to be altered, broidered, and
recast in the imagination of my heart.

We were soon out on the darksome, unguarded road, and after that I
steered chiefly by the lights of the palace behind me, Dessauer saying no
word, but riding like a man-at-arms close behind me.

We had reached the crown of the green hill over whose slopes the path to
the Wolf markwinds--the path by which, doubtless, Helene had travelled
the night of the duel.

As I came to the summit, mounting the steepest part slowly, I was aware
of a figure dark against the sky, no more apparent than a blacker patch
of night where all was dark. It was in shape as of a horseman sitting his
steed on the crest of the hill.

Instantly I drew my pistol, in which I had become expert.

"Your name and business?" cried I to the shape on the hill-side. For,
indeed, none had any right to be abroad so near the city of Plassenburg,
armed cap-a-pie, at that time of the night. And for a moment the thought
flashed upon me that the tales we had heard might after all be true, and
the armies of the Wolfmark nearer than we dreamed of.

"Hugo--Von Dessauer!" quoth right jovially to my ear a voice well known
and ever dear to me, the voice of my master, the Prince Karl.

"The Prince!" cried I. "My lord, what do you here? This is stark
madness--you, who should be within the walls of the palace, with the
guards watching three deep about you. What would come to the State of
Plassenburg if it wanted you?"

"Oh," said he, lightly, falling in beside us in the most natural
fashion, "you and Von Dessauer in dual control would be a singular
improvement on the present head of the State. You, Hugo, would keep the
soldiers to their work, and Von Dessauer could look nobly after the
treasury."

"But who would command us and be a gracious and beloved master to us?"
said I. "My Prince, we must instantly return and put you in safety!"

"Indeed, that will you not. By God's truth, if I am not to come all the
way to the city of Thorn with you, I will at least convoy you to the
edges of the Mark. It is so dull, dragging out month by month at ease
within the castle, and not nearly so much fun as it used to be when I was
a poor captain of a free company under the old Prince. Young rattling
blades like Dessauer and yourself make no allowance for the distractions
of an aged and gouty Prince."

Within myself I felt some amusement stir. It was almost exactly what the
Princess, his wife, had alleged as a reason for her wanderings. I could
not help marvelling why these two had not long ere this found out their
great affinity to each other. But now I see that this very likeness of
nature was the first cause of their lack of agreement. Like may, indeed,
draw to like, as the saw hath it. But in the things of love like and like
agree not well together. Fair desires dark, stout and stark desire
slender, slow desires quick, severe desires gay (though this often
secretly). And so the world goes on, and in another generation, sprung
from these desirings, once more dark desireth fair and fair dark.

There I am at it again. Oh, but I, Hugo Gottfried, am the wise man when I
set out on my disquisitions. I could new-make all the saws of the world,
set instances to them, and never breathe myself.

"Nay," said the Prince, "all is safe set within and without, thanks to my
brave commander and wise Chancellor, and these other matters can e'en
bide till I go back to them. Consider that I am but a captain of horse
going a-wooing and needing to talk gayly for good comradeship by the
road. Call me honest Captain Miller's Son."

So Captain Miller's Son rode with Herr Doctor Schmidt and his servant
Johann. And a merry time the three of us had till we arrived at the
borders of the Mark.

Now I have not time nor yet space (though a great deal of inclination) to
tell of the wondrous pranks we played--of the broad-haunched countrywomen
we rallied (or rather whom Captain Miller's Son rallied, and who, truth
to tell, mostly gave as good as they got, or better, to that soldier's
huge delight), the stout yeoman families into whose midst we went, and
their opinion of the Prince. Of the last I have a good tale to tell. "A
good man and a kindly," so the man said; "he has given us safe horse, fat
cow, and a quiet life. But yet the old was good too. The true race to
reign is ever the anointed Prince."

"But then, did not Dietrich, the anointed Prince, harry you? And worse,
let others plunder you? And that is not the fashion of Prince Karl,
usurper though he be!" said the Prince.

"Nay," the honest man would reply, "usurper is he not--a God-sent boon to
Plassenburg rather. We love him, would fight for him, all my six sons and
I. Would we not, chickens?"

And the six sons rolled out a thunderous "Aye, fight--marry, that
we would!" as they sat, plaiting willow-baskets and mending bows
about the fire.

"But, alas! he is cursed with a mad wife, and, after all said and done,
he is not of the ancient stock," said the ancient man, shaking his head.

And the Prince answered him as quickly, tapping his brow significantly
with his forefinger, "Are not all wives a little touched? Or are yon
passing fortunate in your part of the country? Faith, we of the city will
all come courting to the Tannenwald if you prove better off."

"We are even as our neighbors!" cried the yeoman, shrugging his
shoulders. "Maul, my troth, what sayest thou? Here is a brisk lad that
miscalls thy clan."

The goodwife came forward, smiling, comely, and large of
well-padded bone.

"Which?" said she, laconically.

The farmer pointed to the Prince. The matron took a good look at him.

"Well," she said, "he is the one that should know most about us. He has
been married once or twice, and hath gotten certain things burned into
him. As for this one," she went on, indicating Dessauer, "he may be
doctor of all the wisdoms, as ye say, but he has never compassed the
mystery of a woman. And this limber young spark with the quick eyes, he
is a bachelor also, but ardently desires to be otherwise. I wot he has a
pretty lass waiting for him somewhere."

"How knew you that of me, goodwife ?" I cried, greatly astonished.

"Why, by the way you looked up when my daughter came dancing in. You were
in your lost brown-study, and then, seeing a pretty lass that most are
glad to rest their eyes upon, you looked away disappointed or careless."

"And how knew you that I was of the ancient guild of the bachelors?"
asked Dessauer.

"Why, by the way that you looked at the pot on the fire, and sniffed
up the stew, and asked how long the dinner would be! The bachelor of
years is ever uneasy about his meals, having little else to be uneasy
about, and no wife, compact of all contrary whimsies, to teach him how
to be patient."

"And how," cried the Prince, in his turn, "knew you that I had been
wedded once?"

"Or twice," said the woman, smiling. "Man, ye cackle it like a hen on the
rafters advertising her egg in the manger below. I knew it by the fashion
ye had of hanging up your hat and eke scraping your feet---not after ye
entered, like these other good, careless gentlemen, but with your knife,
outside the door. I see it by your air of one that has been at once under
authority and yet master of a house."

"Well done, good wife!" cried the Prince. "Were I indeed in authority I
would make you either Prime-Minister or chief of my thief-catchers."

And so after that we went to bed.


CHAPTER XXXVIII

THE BLACK RIDERS


The next day we jogged along, and many were our advices and admonitions
to the Prince to return. For we were now on the borders of his kingdom,
and from indications which met us on the journeying we knew that the
Black Riders were abroad. For in one place we came to a burned cottage
and the tracks of driven cattle; in another upon a dead forest guard,
with his green coat all splashed in splotches of dark crimson, a sight
which made the Prince clinch his hands and swear. And this also kept him
pretty silent for the rest of the day.

It was about evening of this second day, and we had come to the top of a
little swell of hills, when suddenly beneath us we heard the crackling of
timbers and saw the pale, almost invisible flames beginning to devour a
thriving farm-house at our feet. There were swarms of men in dark armor
about it, running here and there, clapping straw and brushwood to
hay-ricks and byre doors.

"The Black Riders of Duke Casimir," I cried; "down among the bushes and
let them not see us! We must go back. If they so much as suspected the
Prince they would slay us every one."

But ere we had time to flee half a dozen of their scouts came near us,
and, observing our horses and excellent accoutrement, they raised a cry.
There was nothing for it but the spurs on the heels of our boots. So
across the smooth, well-turfed country we had it, and in spite of our
beasts' weariness we made good running. And while we fled I considered
how best to serve the Prince.

"There is a monastery near by," said I, "and the head thereof is a good
friend of ours. Let us, if possible, gain that shelter, and cast
ourselves on the kindness of the good Abbot Tobias."

"Aye," said the Prince, urging his horse to speed, "but will we ever
get there?"

Then I called myself all the stupid-heads in the world, because I had not
refused to go a foot with the Prince on such a mad venture, and so put
our future and that of the Princedom of Plassenburg in such peril.

But there at last were the gray walls and high towers of the Abbey of
Wolgast. Our pursuers were not yet in sight, so we rode in at the gate
and cast our bridles to a lay brother of the order, crying imperiously
for instant audience of the Abbot.

As soon as my friend Tobias saw us he threw up his hands in a rapture of
welcome. But I soon had him advertised of our great danger. Whereupon he
went directly to the window of his chamber of reception and looked out on
the court-yard.

"Ring the abbey bell for full service," he commanded; "throw open the
outer gates and great doors, and lead these horses to the secret crypt
beneath the mortuary chapel."

For the Abbot Tobias was a man of the readiest resource, and in other
circumstances would have made a good soldier.

He hurried us off to the robing-rooms, and made us put on monastic and
priestly garments over our several apparels. Never, Got wot, had I
expected that I should be transformed into a rope-girt praying clerk. But
so it was. I was given a square black cap and a brown robe, and sent to
join the lay brethren. For my hair grew thick as a mat on top and there
was no time to tonsure it.

Now, Dessauer being bald and quite practicable as to his topknot, they
endued him with the full dress of a monk. But at that time I saw not what
was done with the Prince. For my conductor, a laughing, frolicsome lad,
came for me and carried me off all in good faith, telling me the while
that he hoped we should lodge together. There were, he whispered, certain
very fair and pleasant-spoken maids just over the wall, that which you
could climb easily enough by the branches of the pear-tree that grew
contiguous at the south corner.

As we hurried towards the chapel, the monks were streaming out of
their cells in great consternation, grumbling like soldiers at an
unexpected parade.

"What hath gotten into our old man?" said one. "Hath he overeaten at
mid-day refection, and so is not able to sleep, that he cannot let honest
men enjoy greater peace than himself?"

"What folly!" cried another; "as if we had not prayers enough, without
cheating the Almighty by knocking him up at uncanonical hours!"

"And the choir summoned, and full choral service, no less! Not even a
respectable saint's day--no true churchman indeed, but some heretic of
a Greek fellow!" quoth a third.

Nevertheless, obediently enough they made their way as the bell clanged,
and the throng filed into their places most reverently. It was a pleasant
sight. I came into rank unobtrusively at the back, among the rustling and
nudging lay brethren. In other circumstances it would have amused me to
see the grave faces they turned towards the altar, and to hear all the
while the confused scuffling as they trod on each other's toes, trying
whose skin was the tenderest or whose sandal soles were the thickest. One
or two even tried conclusions with me, but once only. For the first who
adventured got a stamp from my riding-boot which caused him to squeal out
like a stuck pig, and but for the waking thunder of the organ might have
gotten him a month's penance in addition. So after that my toes were left
severely alone among the lay brethren.

Then came the high procession, at which the monks and all stood up. In
front there were the incense-bearers and acolytes, then officers whose
names, not being convent-bred nor yet greatly given to church-craft, I
did not know. Then after them came two men who walked together, at the
sight of whom the' jaws of all the monks dropped, and they stood so
infinitely astonished that no power was left in them. For, instead of
one, two mitred abbots entered in full canonical attire--golden mitre and
green, golden-headed staff, red embroidered robes lined with green. These
two paced solemnly in abreast, and sat down upon twin thrones.

"The Abbot of St. Omer!" whispered one of the lay brothers, naming one of
the most famous abbeys in Europe, and the word flew round like lightning.
Whether he had been instructed or not what to say I do not know. But at
all events I saw the tidings run round the circle of the choir, overleap
the boundary stall, and even reach the officiating priests, who inclined
an eager ear to catch it, and passed the word one to another in the
intervals of the chanted sentences.

With a very lively imagination, he combined heat and warmth of feeling.
Through its Gemüthsanlagen, perhaps by the example of his father,
he soon bowed to religious enthusiasm. Was changed this direction through
the Spirit with great zeal operated by studying Greek and Roman Classics.
The biographies of the heroes in Cornelius Nepos loving him.

Lebhaft stirred since his twelfth years Wieland's feeling for poetry,
even before he read Virgil and Horace had the later his faithful companion
on lonely walks were. His first poetic attempts were Latin verses.
Anakreon was his role model in a poem by the Echo, which he makes
an expansion of nearly 600 verses there.

Not much else was a shorter poem in Distichen to which his well-known
fable of the pygmies the material offered. This poem was actually a
satyr on the very small woman of the Rectors of the school at Biberach.
In German verses chose to Wieland by his "earthly pleasure in
God" to the celebrated poet Brockes pattern.

From Gottsched, the former leader of good taste, and removed him very fine
feeling for the true beauty. Not just the shape, even after the content
has remained Brockes Wieland Cantate modeled in several other religious
and seals, which it between his twelfth and thirteenth wrote years.
Some operas and ballets were at that time. His enthusiasm for the poetry,
however, had with some obstacles. The vaterliche ban, with anything else,
as scientific objects to employ nöthigte him to get up early and the
morning hours to his poetic work to use. None of his poetic experiments,
an epic, "the destruction of Jerusalem" title, not the exception, it
was enough. In youthful Unmuth Wieland burned most of his poetic attempts,
and even the few who had saved his mother, later met the same fate. Wieland's
a feeling for the beauties of nature was awakened early by the
environments of the city anmuthigen Biberach.

The love of solitude was a dominant character in his train. Often he brought
not only a large portion of the day, but also some in the summer night
at the paternal house to garden. In happier memories of his youth, he
later wrote (1780) in his "Oberon" the verses: "You little place where I
sucked the first light, the first pain, felt like the first", etc.
In a later letter to a friend confessed Wieland, that his youth
living in an area anmuthigen great influence on his education had. His
fourteenth year, he had barely reached him when his father after
school situated near Magdeburg monastery mountains sent.

Under the abbot Steinmetz, the former director of that institute, was
Wieland, whose Hinneigung to Pietism, the danger, a religious
fanatics to be.

His love of solitude found in mountains new monastery food. It was
beneficial to stay with a particular zeal driven studies of newer languages.
The French made Wieland, despite a very mediocre teacher, rapid
progress. Soon he was able, without a dictionary Hülfe, several French
writers to read.

Fontenelle, Voltaire, d'Argens, and were his favorites, although
the latter by his ridicule of religious objects Wieland feeling disgusted.
It was through this gradual Lectüre become a skeptic.

In a philosophical essay, he sought to prove that the universe without a
God, of eternal elements that may have formed. The harsh accusations to
him by his teacher because of this youth gathered Products, Wieland was
just impeccable, pure moral life somewhat mitigate. He complained,
however, hard on himself because of his doubts about the existence of God.
In sleepless nights he rang almost sore hands, and shed bitter
Thränen of remorse.

He was mistaken in his belief has become, and feared the punishment of
hell forever. A freer spirit Wieland's direction was when he returned
to the classic studies zuwandte. During his two-year stay, he had
to Livy, Terence, Horace, Virgil and other Roman writers to read
for themselves.

Some Greek writers he selected for his Lectüre.

The biggest influence on his thinking and Sinnesart won Xenophon.

In later years, Wieland told how he was at the Cyropädie not have enough
of how to read. Especially liked him from the episode "Araspes and
PANTHEA," which he later to seal a selected substance. The memorabilia
of Socrates "was him, after his own term for" the gospel of salvation
of the world. " A similar direction as they pursued Xenophon, Wieland
was in the = = Spectator, Tatler = = = = Guardian and other British
journals, which he then happened to be in the hands geriethen.

Philosophical studies, he gained an early love was retained still a lively
attraction for him. Under the old Cicero was his favorite. The serious
study of Wolf's writings and from Bayle's historical-critical dictionary
completed Wieland philosophical education. In later years, he
confessed that he "with a poetic style, in the metaphysical incognitis =
= terris around vagiren," then from one system to another was übergesprungen.
From this wavering freed him one of his teachers, Raether with
names of his truly fatherly accepted.

The Conventual Gräter made often by his Spirit Education deserves.
Wieland's diligence during his two-year stay in the monastery mountains
was exemplary.

In addition to his philological and philosophical studies, he with zeal
his future career professionals, the theology. He was still leisurely,
in the German style of practice for the colleges in the then little
was provided.

Instructive for him were the numerous examples of old and newer scriptures
in Breitinger's critical poetry. Also by reading some critical, he leaves
to form. He is rich material for comparing and testing, after his own
poetic forces had attempted several times. Although less productive
than formerly, had Wieland's inclination to poetry is not diminished.
Were attractive to him, except Gellert, and Hagedorn, particularly
Haller philosophical poems by their content and by the dignity of the
language. Squeezed but those were poets, Klopstock as with his "Messiah"
hervortrat.

Indescribable was Wieland's enthusiasm when he was the first song of that
poetry in the "New contributions to the pleasures of the intellect and
wit" had read. He found in those songs full satisfaction for the
mind and heart, for his religion and for its poetic feeling.

The poetry Wieland remained faithful even in Erfurt. At the request of
his father, he had in 1749 called the city go. He was sixteen years old.
The largest portion of the poetic attempts, which at that time, rejected
Wieland again, or at least let them unfinished. At a fairly long epic
in hexameters offered him the Greek mythology, the fabric. In such
pursuits, he also in Erfurt a lonely life. The lack of a youth friend
nöthigte him to older persons adapter, which it the seriousness
of his ohnedieß you buy a new system.

A fatherly friend he found in Erfurt where with his family related
= = Dr. Baumer, later a professor of Medicine and Chemistry received
in Giessen, Hesse, and there-intestinal Urban Bergrath died. His
knowledge of philosophy to correct and expand, was the main task,
Wieland is presented in Erfurt. Baumer's logical and a Privatissimum
Lectures on the Philosophy Wolfische gave his spirit rich diet.

With pleasure Wieland remembered in later years, to the enjoyment, the
Baumer gives him when he was at his Lectüre ruling of Don Quixote.
In that novel, he had "the great general natural history of human folly
and Thorheit" learned. Enriched with diverse skills, Wieland returned
after 1750 Biberach back. The summer, he zubrachte in the parental home,
was one of the strangest periods of his life.

During this time was Wieland's first love.

Their object was Guterman v. Sophie, the daughter of a doctor, with
Wieland's parents stood in friendly relations. Not by blooming beauty,
with youthful charms Wieland felt drawn to Sophien. On his strictly
platonic sensuality Liebesverhältniß had not the remotest Antheil. Sophien
What captivated him was the excellent spirit of education, they early
on by reading the best German writers had gained their restless pursuit
of expanding their knowledge, and their fervent enthusiasm for everything
good, true and beautiful.

Although only two years older than Wieland, Sophie practiced but by the
strength of their character and inner attitude a rare rule over the
young owls from. At their superior knowledge, Wieland studied with
poetic enthusiasm Sophien lively curiosity to satisfy. These ratios
thanked Wieland's first printed poem originated. On a lonely walk to
the churchyard of St. Martin was once her friend Sophie, and their
feelings met there for the first time in its enthusiasm for the
beauties of nature. Such a still life, said Wieland was noisy all
the pleasures of the world preferred. By dealing with Sophien, he
said in a later letter, to indicate with his early skepticism, he
was a completely different person, a friend of virtue and religion
has become.

Unforgettable still remained to him in later years, a beautiful summer
day on which he and the lover in the friendly surroundings of Biberach
umhergewandelt and you jump from the definition of spirits and human beings
and the dignity of the human soul had entertained. Through his father,
a sermon on the text: God is love, he was on this topic have been. The
fruit of that enthusiastic conversation, which his companion to Thränen
touched was Lehrgedicht Wieland: "The nature of things or the most
perfect world."

It was in February 1751 started in April of that year was completed, and
even in 1770 for the third time printed.

With pain Wieland separated from the beloved, in the autumn of 1750
returned to Augsburg, where her father, formerly resident in
Kaufbeuern, had established itself.

Even more often met in Tübingen, where Wieland at this time opened his
academic career, Sophie image before his soul.

The impression she made on his heart, was so deeply that in a letter his
father expressed doubts about the durability of his love him very
hurt. shoals in its entrepreneurial spirit, he knew no greater happiness
than Sophien possession.

About the manifold difficulties which the fulfillment of his desire
favorite opposite could occur, he can easily remain. In spirit, he
has justified his bourgeois existence, while it does not agree with
was on professional discipline, which he wanted to devote. The jurisprudence
startled him by its dryness. In order to become a theologian, he would
have been a greater need to have breasts. The study of the medical ward
verleidet him through his insurmountable fear Todt carcasses,
medical offices and hospitals.

He visited in Tübingen almost no Collegium.

The love of solitude tied him to his room. Without friends, almost
without any treatment, his spirit brooded over the idea of the
most beautiful poetic flowers, the poet, his talent would like to
offer to the glorification of his lover in a wreath to weave.

This led to his earlier poem, "The Nature of Things, or the
perfect world." Inspired by this product, which he then put to a
very strict determination subjugated, Wieland sent his poem to the
professor in Meier Hall, who was then the head and philosophical
than as critics much was.

Neither his name nor his whereabouts, he mentioned in his letters.
Meier gave a Adlichen for the author of the poem sent to him,
which he did immediately print, and it accompanied with a preface.
Even before the fate of his work experience, had a new poetic Wieland plan.
The first five songs an epic poem, "Hermann" title, he sent to
Bodmer in Zurich, then in the liveliest literary battle with Gottsched
and his followers were implicated.

Bodmer was sent to him at trial favorable, perhaps even because Begeistrung
Wieland in his youth had taken Parthei. He joined with the young author
in a continuing correspondence. Anmuthigen In a summer house, later known
as the Wieland cottage on a vineyard near Tübingen, situated on this
side of the Neckar, lived Wieland was the enjoyment of nature,
solitary studies and some poetic experiments, by handling all away
in almost complete seclusion.

His spirit and direction of sensation he described in a former
letter with the words: "I learned from poetry no smaller term than
that the singer of God, his works and of virtue is Seyn.

But now I like the utterances of young joy when she is innocent,
and Gleim and Hagedorn have often enjoy myself. " In Wieland mood
was changing but also the most innocent jokes so reluctant that he
referred to the density of a culpable recklessness accused.

The seriousness of his nature drew him to the English poets, to
Milton, Pope, Addison, Young, Thomson uA "The French people," said
Wieland, "I am affenmäßigen its volatile nature and because, quite
gram, and even more the Germans, prefer to have their minds according
to these ridiculous creatures to form than to the thinking, male
beautiful and sometimes heavenly Britten.

"From an entrepreneurial About swarms tension of his mind was Wieland's
quest, which Irreligiosität and the recklessness to fight.

He wanted to show the world that beauty in the Platonic sense to
outlaw the monotony is good.

In no poet of his time drew attention to Wieland's decisive than Klopstock.
From the enthusiastic devotion that singer then testified several letters
Wieland.

An imitator Klopstock he was not, regardless of its nature it was
easy to accept something of the manner of writers, especially to
his taste them.

Wieland's "hymn to love," and a poem, "Spring" is overwritten, showing
the unmistakable influence that Kleist to his poetic talent had.

He made no attempt, the singer of Messiade on the bold flights of his
imagination to accompany. Only as a man he wanted the same. Soulful him
a certain moral pride, which was still fed by the comparison of
ordinary life and goings of people with the grand patterns of virtue
and soul size, his older and newer writers in mind imputed.

With enthusiasm he had as a boy, as mentioned earlier, the Cornelius
Nepos reads.

Even more enthusiastic young man to him as any noble portrayal That,
while he was of bad acts with revulsion turned out. Even in the poetry,
as in life, he remained a vivid feeling for the Reinsittliche.

The philosophical and moral poems, he above all others in preference.
He wrote it under another: "I appreciate the heroic poems very high, but
I will leave it to greater minds, is too big or entangled Seyn
to try. I content myself, In addition to the few hours that my muse
almost stolen, to use in philosophical and moral poems, and thus
intention of poetry in a small sphere, the gracious virtue to praise.
"Among the poems Wieland, during his stay in Tübingen emerged was
the" anti-Ovid ", written in summer 1752 , not only against the
recklessness of the Romans, but the Frenchman addressed.

The love inspired him, in this Lehrgedicht an item to select it, as he
confessed in later years, had hardly grown, since it in his solitude,
surrounded by his books, at the Nöthiger Menschenkenntniß missing,
he only the observation of the living conditions could draw.

Some months earlier, when the "anti-Ovid", in May 1752, Wieland created
"moral tales." Already at the end of 1751, he had his "moral letters"
issued. From his previous poems, they were referred here by their salary
is less than the form.

For the "moral letters had Wieland Alexandrine, for the" moral tales "unrhymed
Jambes elected, and for the" anti-Ovid "a free Versmaß in recurring
rhymes. Under such pursuits Wieland less lived in the real world than
in the realm of the ideals which his imagination vorzauberte.

His future seemed little to worry about him. In a kind of self-description,
which he made during his stay in Tübingen in letters to his beloved
Sophie drafted, he confessed, despite its manifold faults, is "a
good heart and some of Spirit", but he believed with truth assure
you that it "was his spirit, his heart to such a good've done."

Im Wieland was in June 1752 from Tübingen back into the parental home
after Biberach returned. Lively misbilligte his father the way he
has continued his studies had operated.

About making the verses he had his future career is almost entirely lost
from sight. One so-called Brodwissenschaft to spend, he did not
come to mind.

Very reluctant, therefore, he was the father's plan, in Göttingen an
academic career to devote Docente. Wieland said that he, like many
others, did not fit. He hoped probably still scope to find, with his
abilities and inclinations more harmonirte. An apprenticeship at a
secondary school, he grew to believe Seyn.

His dearest wish was a professor at the Carolinum to Brunswick, especially
because it is consistent with gardeners, Ebert, Zacharia including
talented men, in the said institute apprenticeship clothed in touch
more to come hoped. To fulfill his desire favorite, however, showed no
prospects.

From the embarrassing feeling that his parents continued support through
arduous falling Wieland was liberated by Bodmer's an invitation to him
to come to Zurich.

He had the young author, according to the poetic attempts, which he sent
Wieland, very fond. Against the trip to Switzerland in the autumn of 1752
should be commenced, Wieland's father had no objection to that.

He believed rather that such a distance his son in a variety of
ways salutary Seyn wants, especially in relation to its heart, from
which he has promised not strange output.

Wieland Biberach not but wanted to leave his beloved Sophie again seen
to have. Some circumstances occurred that his hopes of a delayed time
to another. He sank about how he is in one of his letters said, "in a
state of Unthätigkeit and peevishness, who was often a burden." A
determination of Bodmer's "Noachide" helped him to shorten
somewhat boring time. Of daily pleasure promised by Wieland that
the life in Zurich.

Because his friends are not there as soon wanted to leave, so he
wanted in Switzerland by a tutor to the funding agency to secure
its subsistence.

Still eh 'he was left to Zurich, so he turned to writing to Bodmer's
friend, Mr. Raths Schinz, and asked him for his Rath. In Bodmer's
anmuthig located apartment, where he was on 13 October 1752 arrived,
he found a friendly reception.

Awe, love and gratitude soon tied him to the man who by his Mittheilung
literary treasures through his teachings and talks very favorable
influence on Wieland.

With his thinking and feeling way harmonirte Bodmer's simple life, his
retreat from the world and the inclination to literary pursuits. Even
after long periods of time they lived together, joined in their
ratio, no significant emotional disturbances.

Even in later years called Wieland that the happiest period of his
life.

In jovial mood as he completed his already commenced Biberach
"Treatise of the beauties of the epic poem Noah", which his father
had written Bodmer friend.

Bodmer was the 1753 paper to print Zurich, and soon afterwards also by
Wieland written "letter on the dignity and determination of a
beautiful mind."

Also Wieland returned to poetry in Zurich back. On Bodmer proposal, he
wrote a small epic, "the testing of Abraham" titled. His then sealed
"letters of mortal remains to their surviving friends" he had by the
English poet Elizabeth Rowe published works: = "Friendship in Death" =
cause found. Still happened Wieland with the thought of his beloved
Sophie once the whole of his own information.

The fact that the difficulty in their possession to arrive, still heaped
had felt he did not. Immersed in his poetic dreams, felt he was deeply
shocked by a letter, in which Sophie their previous relationships with
him for dissolved said. This letter, which he at the beginning of December
1753 was reported to him at the same time with the marriage Sophien Chur
Main hiss Hofrath de la Roche. This witty and widely respected man she had
from obedience to her parents for her hand enough, and the voice of
their hearts, still for Wieland spoke little attention.

Theilnahme The intimate him of his friends had to endure this harsh
fate help.

With greater willpower than that of its irritable Gemüthsart had
expected, he endorsed in a letter to her lover decision, and sincerely
wished her luck on her connection.

Often, however, returned him to the action the loss of his Sophie again.
On their possession dereinstigen liked it counted most, when he made a
plan to establish a private education, or, as he himself called an "Academy
for Education of the mind and heart of young people."

Due to the embarrassing feeling as Bodmer's house and table Comrade
his patrons even longer to load to fall, was moved Wieland, 1754
when a Mr v.

Grebel in Zurich house teacher job.

Neither the great respect which he enjoyed his new circumstances,
even the great respect that you took his little idiosyncrasies,
he was in pain at the loss of his lover soften.

I looked, and there, alone in the centre,
attired in white, the cynosure of eyes, I beheld--Helene.


CHAPTER XLI

THE GARRET OF THE RED TOWER


I felt my temples, my ears, my neck tingling with cold. I seemed to have
fallen into a sea of ice. I think I would have fallen and fainted but
that at that moment my master sat down beside the Bishop, and I was left
free to retire into a darksome corner, where I staggered against a beam,
slimy with black sweat, and hung over it with my hand clasping my brow,
trying to think what had happened.

I do not know how long I remained in this position, nor yet when I came
to myself. All was a dream to me, a nightmare of horrid whirlings and
infinite oppressions. The faces of the folk that watched, the garmentry
of the Bishop and his priests, the red robes of the young Duke and his
assessors, spun round me in a hideous phantasmagoria.

At last I was conscious that a trumpet had blown. Whereupon all rose up.
The secretaries stacked their papers unconcernedly with the feathers of
their pens in their mouths. And then in the solemn silence which ensued
the Duke and his judges filed out of the door, while the power of the
Church, represented by Bishop Peter and his priests, went forth by
another. Before I could realize the situation, Helene had vanished, as it
seemed, down a trap-door in the floor.

My master accompanied Bishop Peter. As for me, I hardly knew what I did.
I did not even stand up, till our conductor, he who had gone forward to
announce us at the first, ran across to me, and, plucking me by the arm
from the beam on which I leaned, whispered, hurriedly: "Art dead or
drunk, man, that thou riskest thine ears and thy neck? Stand up while the
Judges and the new Duke go by!"

So, dazed and numb, I hent me up, and lo! coming arm in arm towards me
were Otho von Reuss and his newly appointed Chief Justice and
assessor--who but mine old friend Michael Texel! The Duke bent a
searching look on me as I bowed low before him, but he saw only the tan
of my skin and the close bristle of my hair. And so all passed on.

"Ho, blackamoor, thy master waits thee! Run, if thou wouldst avoid the
whipping-post!" cried another of the rout of servitors, with a small
sniggering laugh.

So, putting out a hand to stay myself, I staggered weakly after my
master. I found him at the door, in talk with the confessor of the
Bishop.

"And so," he was saying, "this girl was reared in the executioner's
house. And she went away to a far country in order to learn the secrets
of necromancy, it is not known where. I would see this Duke's Justicer.
Does he dwell near by? What! In that very tower? It is of good omen. Let
us go in thither."

But the confessor excused himself, being in no wise desirous to visit the
Red Axe, even in his time of sickness.

"I have business of the soul with Bishop Peter. I will speak with thee
again at refection," he said, twitching his head up at the Red Tower with
suspicious glances, as if he feared unseen ears might be listening, and
that some of its fearful magic might even descend upon a man so notably
holy as a Bishop's confessor.

Presently Dessauer and I were across the court-yard at the well-known
door. I knocked, and listened, whereupon ensued silence. Again and yet
again I made the quaint death's-head knocker thunder, and then, when the
echoes ceased, there was once more a great silence in the tower.

I heard the blood-hounds of Duke Casimir howl. The indigo shadow of the
pinnacled Hall of Justice stretched across and touched the Red Tower with
an ominous finger.

"Let us go in," said I. And, pushing the unresisting door, I began to
climb the stone stairs. Each smoothed hollow and chipped edge was
familiar to me as my name. Indeed, much more so, for I was now passing
under a false one. So I climbed, in a dazed way, up and up. There on my
left was the sitting-room. It had been searched high and low, escritoires
rudely tossed down, aumries rifled, household stuff, grain, white linen,
empty bottles, all cast about and huddled together even as the searchers
had left them.

Then above was the little room where Helene used to sleep. Here the wrack
was indescribable--every hidingplace rifled, her pretty worked bedquilt
lying across the doorway trampled and soiled, her dainty white clothing,
some she had worn at Plassenburg, and even the tiny dresses of her
childhood, all torn and confused together. And in the midst, what
affected me more than everything else, a tiny puppet of wood my father
had hewn her with his knife, and which she had dressed as a queen with
red ribbons and crown of tinsel--ah, so long ago--and in such happy days.

"Father!" I called, loudly. "Father!"

But in this I forgot myself. There might have been enemies lurking
anywhere in the house of pain and disaster.

My own room came next, and the way out upon the roof; but we tried not
these. There remained only the garret of my father. I climbed up, with
Dessauer behind me, and pushed the door open.

Then I stood in the entering-in, looking for the first time for years on
the face of my father.

He lay on his conch, his head bound about with a napkin. The dark wisp of
hair which rose like a cock's comb, sticking through the stained cloth
which swathed his brow, was no longer blue-black, but of an iron-gray,
splashed and brindled with pure white. His eyes were open, and shone,
cavernous and solemn, above his fallen-in cheeks. It was like looking
into the secrets of another world. That which he had so often caused
other eyes to see, the Red Axe of Thorn was now to see for himself. The
hand which lay--mere skin, muscle, and bone--on the counterpane had
guided many to the door of the mysteries. Now at its own entrance it was
to push the arras aside, for the Death-Justicer of the Mark was to go
before the Judge of all the earth.

My father lay gazing at me with deep, mournful eyes. So sad they seemed
that it was as if nothing in heaven or earth, neither joy nor sorrow,
life nor death, could have power to change their expression of
immeasurable sadness.

I entered, and my companion followed.

"You are alone? There is none with you here?" I said to my father, going
to the bedside.

He started at the voice, and looked up even eagerly. But his eyes dulled
and deadened again as he fell back.

"I did but dream!" he muttered, sadly.

"You have no one with you here, Gottfried Gottfried?" said I again, for
in a matter of life and death it was as well to make sure even at risk of
disturbing a dying man.

He set his hand to his brow as if trying to think.

"Who should be with me--except all these?" he answered, very solemnly.
And swept his hand about the room as if he saw strange shapes standing in
rows round the walls. "I wish," he went on, almost querulously, "whoever
you may be, you would tell these people to keep their hands down. They
point at me, and thrust their dripping heads forward, holding them like
lanterns in their palms."

He turned away to the back of the bed, and then, as if he saw something
there worse than all the rest, faced about again quickly, saying, with
some pathetic intonation of his lost childhood, "There is no need for
them to point so at me, is there? I did but my duty."

"Father!" said I, gently touching his cheek with my hand as I used to do.

"Ah, what is that?" he said, quickly. "Did some one call me father? Let
me go! I tell you, sirs, let me go! She needs me. They are torturing her.
I must go to her!"

"Father," I said again, putting him gently back, "it is I--your own son
Hugo--come back to speak with you, to help if it may be--to die for the
Little Playmate if need be."

"Hugo--Hugo!" he said. "Yes, yes--of course, I know--my little lad, my
pretty boy!"

He pushed me back to look at me, eagerly, wistfully--and then thrust me
sharply away.

"Bah!" he said; "you lie! What need to lie to a dying man? My Hugo had
yellow hair and a skin like lilies. Yours is dark--"

"Father," said I, "I am here disguised. Help is coming, sure and
strong, if we can only wait a little and delay the trial. But tell me
all. Speak to me freely, if you love your daughter Helene--your
daughter and my love."

He sat up now, and motioned me to come nearer. There was a dark, fierce,
unworldly light in his eyes. I set a pillow to his back, and went and
kneeled by the bed as I used to do at good-night time when I said my
Paternoster.

Then for the first time he knew me.

"Say your prayers, child!" he commanded, in his old voice.

So, though with the stress of wars and other things I had mostly
forgotten, yet I said not only that, but the little Prayer of Childhood
he had taught me. And then I kissed him as I used to do when I bade him
good-night.

"Yes," he said, softly, "it is true, after all. You are mine own
only son. Hugo--I am glad you have come so far to see your father
before he dies."

I told him how I had come, and brought Dessauer forward, introducing him
as one great in the kingdom where I was, and to whom I was much
beholden. He shook him by the hand with grave, intent courtesy, and
again looked at me.

"Now, father," said I, "we have no long time to bide with you, lest the
new Duke come upon us. We must hie us back to our lodging with the Bishop
Peter, lest we be missed."

My father smiled.

"Ye will live but sparely there!" said he, with a flicker of his
ancient smile.

"Tell us how you came to this," said I, "and, if you can, why Helene, our
little Helene, stands so terribly accused."

My father paused a long time before he began to answer.

"It is not easy for me to tell you all," he said. "I know and I have the
words, but, somehow, when I try to fit the words to the thing, they run
asunder and will not mix, like water and oil. But see, Hugo, here is an
elixir of rare value. Drop a drop or two on my tongue if ye see me
wander. It will bring me back for a time."


CHAPTER XLII

PRINCESS PLAYMATE


Then began my father to tell the story slowly, with many a pause and
interruption, now searching for words, now racked with pain, all of which
I need not imitate, and shall leave out. But the substance of his tale
was to this effect:

"After you had left us, the Dukedom went from bad to worse--no peace, no
rest, no money. Duke Casimir took less and less of my advice, but, on the
contrary, began again his old horrors--plundering, killing, living by
terror and in terror. He threatened Torgau. He attacked Plassenburg. He
stirred up hornets' nests everywhere. At home he made himself the common
mark for every assassin.

"Then suddenly came his nephew back, and almost immediately he grew great
in favor with him. Uncle and nephew drank together. They paraded the
terraces arm in arm. I was never more sent for save to do my duty. Otho
von Reuss rode abroad at the head of the Black Horsemen.

"But, at the same time, to my great joy, arrived the Little Playmate
back to me. She was safer with me, she said. So that, having her, I
needed naught else. She came with good news of you, making the journey
not alone, for two men of the Princess's retinue brought her to the
city gates."

"The Princess!" I cried; "aye, I thought so. I judged that it was the
Princess who sent her back."

Dessauer motioned with his hand. He saw that it was dangerous to throw
my father off the track. And, indeed, this was proven at once, for my
unfortunate interruption set my father's mind to wandering, till finally
I had to drop certain drops of the red liquid on his tongue. These,
indeed, had a marvellous effect upon him. He sat up instantly, his eyes
flashing the old light, and began to speak rapidly and to clear purport,
even as he used to do in the old days when Duke Casimir would come
striding across the yard at all hours of the night and day to consult
his Justicer.

"What was I telling?" he went on. "Yes, I remember, of the home-coming
of Helene under honorable escort. And she was beautiful--but all her
race were beautiful, all the women of them, at any rate. But that is
another matter.

"So things went well enough with us till, as she went across the yard one
day to meet me at the door of the hall as I came out, who should see her
but the Count Otho von Reuss. And she turned from him like a queen and
took hold of my arm, clasping it strongly. Then he gazed fixedly at us
both, and his look was the evil-doer's look. Oh, I know it. Who knows
that look, if not I? And so we passed within. But my Helene was quivering
and much afraid, nestling to me--aye, to me, old Gottfried Gottfried,
like a frightened dove.

"After this she went not out into the court-yard or city any more, save
with me by her side, and Otho von Reuss lingered about, watching like a
wolf about the sheepfold. For, as I say, he was in high favor with Duke
Casimir, and had already equal place with him on the bed of justice.

"Then there came a night, lightning peeping and blazing, alternate blue
and ghastly white--God's face and the devil's time about staring in at
the lattice. I lay alone in my chamber. But I was not asleep. As you
know, I do not often sleep. But I lay awake and thought and thought. The
lightning showed me faces I had not seen for thirty years, and forms I
remembered, black against eternity. But all at once, in a certain
after-clap of silence that followed the roaring thunder, I heard a voice
call to me.

"'My father--my father" it cried.

"It was like a soul in danger calling on God.

"I rose and went, clad as I was in the red of mine office (for that day I
had done the final grace more than once); even so, I ran down the stairs
to the room of my little Helene.

"The lightning showed me my lamb crouched in the corner, her lips open,
white, squared with horror, her arms extended, as though to push some
monstrous thing away. A black shape, whose, I could not tell, I saw
bending over her. Then came blackness of darkness again. And again my
Helene's voice. Ah, God, I can hear it now, calling pitifully, like a
woman hanging over hell and losing hold: 'Father--my father!'

"'I am here!' I cried, loudly, even as on the scaffold I cry the doom for
which the malefactors die.

"And the room lit up with a flame, white as the face of God as He passed
by on Mount Sinai, flash on continuous flash. And there before me, with a
countenance like a demon's, stood Otho von Reuss."

I uttered a hoarse cry, but Dessauer again checked me. The evidence can be found in several of his former letters.

He was in a happy mood, which is also probably a major reason I would love
to have that in his current life situation is not the least change had
occurred.But even as he turned and fled from the room
I seized him about the waist, and, opening the window with my other hand,
I cast him forth. And as he went down backward, clutching at nothing, God
looked again out of the skylights of heaven, and showed me the face of
the devil, even as Michael saw it when he hurled him shrieking into the
nether pit.

"Then I went back and took in my arms my one ewe lamb.

"Many days (so they brought me word) Otho lay at the point of death, and
Duke Casimir came not near me nor yet sent for me. But by that very
circumstance I knew Otho had not revealed how his accident had befallen.
Yet he but bided his time. And as he grew well, Duke Casimir grew ill. He
waxed more and more like an armored ghost, and one day he came here and
sat on the bed as in old times.

"'I know my friends now,' he said, 'good Red Axe of mine, friend of many
years. I have had mine eyes blinded, but this morning there has come a
mighty clearness, and from this day forth you and I shall stand face to
face and see eye to eye again, as in the days of old!'

"Then being athirst, he asked for something to drink. Which, when our
sweet Helene had brought, he patted her cheek. 'A maid too good for a
court--one among a thousand, a fair one !' he said; and passed away down
the stairs, walking with his old steady tread.

"But even at the steps of the Hall of Justice he stumbled and fell. They
carried him in, and there in the robing chamber he lay unconscious for a
week, and then died without speech.

"When he was dead, and ere he had been embalmed, there arose a clamor,
first among the followers of Otho von Reuss, and after that among those
of the Wolfsberg who expected that they would be favored by the new Duke.
It was first whispered, and then cried aloud, that the death of Duke
Casimir had been compassed by witchcraft and potions.

"Cunningly and with subtlety was spread the report how my daughter and I
had worked upon Duke Casimir. How he had gone to our house, drunken a
draught, and then died ere he could come to his own chamber. But as for
me, I went on my way and heeded them not. For just then the plague, which
had stricken the Duke first, stalked athwart the city unchecked, and all
through it this Helene of ours was as the angel of God, coming and going
by night and day among the streets and lanes of the town. And the common
folk almost worshipped her. And so do unto this day.

"Now perhaps I did not heed this babble as I ought to have done. But
there came one night--how long ago I have forgotten--and with it a clamor
in the court-yard. The Black Riders, the worst of them, fiends incarnate
that Otho had of late gathered about him, thundered upon us without, and
presently burst in the door.

"I met them with mine axe at the stair-head, and for the better part of
an hour I kept them at a distance. And some died and some were
dismembered. For at that business I am not a man to make mistakes. Then
came Otho limping from his fall and shot me with a bolt from behind his
men. And so over my body as I lay at the stair-head they took my love and
left me here to die. And the new Duke will not kill me, for he desires
that I shall see her agony ere my own life is taken. For that alone the
fiend keeps me in life!

"And that," said my father, feebly, "is all."

But just as he seemed to ebb away a wild fear startled him.

"No," he cried, "there is yet something more. Hugo, Hugo, keep me here a
little! Hold me that my mind may not wander away among the racking-wheels
and the faces mopping and mowing. I have something yet to tell."

I held him up while Dessauer poured a drop or two of the potent liquid
into his mouth. As before, it instantly revived him. The color came back
to his cheeks.

"Quick, Hugo, lad!" he cried; "give me that black box which sits behind
the block." I brought it, and from this he extracted a small key, which
he gave me.

"Unlock the panel you see there in the wall," he said.

I looked, but could find none.

"The oaken knob!" he cried, sharply, as to a clumsy servitor.

I could only see a rough knob in the wood-work, a little worm-eaten, and
in the centre one hole a little larger than the rest.

"Put in the key!" commanded my father, making as if he would come out of
bed and hasten me himself.

I thrust in the key, indeed, but with no more faith than if I had been
bidden to put it into a mouse-hole.

Nevertheless, it turned easy as thinking, and a little door swung open,
cunningly fitted. Here were dresses, books, parchments huddled together.

"Bring all these to me," he said.

And I brought them carefully in my arms and laid them on the bed.

The eye of old Dessauer fell on something among them and was instantly
fascinated. It was a woman's waist-belt of thick bars of gold laid three
and three, with crests and letters all over it.

The Chancellor put his hand forward for it, and my father allowed him to
take it, following him, however, with a questioning eye.

Then Dessauer put his hand into his bosom and drew out a chain of
gold--the necklace of the woodman, in-deed--and laid the two side by
side. He uttered a shrill cry as he did so.

"The belt of the lost Princess!" he cried; "the little Princess of
Plassenburg!"

And, laying them one above the other, each group of six bars read thus:

[Illustration:
o o o    H    o o o   H   o o o    H   o o o
         |            |            |
o o o    E    o o o   E   o o o    E   o o o    The Necklace
         |            |            |
o o o    L    o o o   L   o o o    L   o o o


o o o    E    o o o   E   o o o    E   o o o
         |            |            |
o o o    N    o o o   N   o o o    N   o o o    The Belt
         |            |            |
o o o    E    o o o   E   o o o    E   o o o]


With delight on his face, like that of a mathematician when his
calculations work out truly, Dessauer reached over his hand for the
papers also, but my father stayed him.

"Who may you be that has a chain to match mine?" he asked, with his
mighty hand on Dessauer's wrist.

"I am the State's Chancellor of Plassenburg, and it needed but this to
show me our true Princess."

"Here, then," said my father, "is more and better."

And he handed him the papers.

"It meets! It meets!" cried Dessauer, enthusiastically, as he glanced
them over. "It is complete. It would stand probation in the Dict of
the Emperor."

"But yet all that will not prevent Helene Gottfried dying at the stake!"
cried my father, sadly, and fell back unconscious on his bed.

       *       *       *       *       *

We spent this heaviest of nights at the palace of Bishop Peter--Dessauer
with the prelate--I, praise to the holy pyx, in the kitchen with the
serving men and maids. Peter of the Pigs was there, but no more eager to
fight. The lay brother who had gone with the letter, and the conductor
who had run away from the dread door of the Hall of Justice, had
returned, and had spread a favorable report of our courage.

Certainly the house of Peter the Bishop might be a poor one and scantily
provendered, but there was little sign of it that night. For if the
master went fasting and his guests lived on pulse (as they said in
Thorn), certainly not so Bishop Peter's servants.

For there were pasties of larks, with sauce of butter and herbs, most
excellent and toothsome. There were rabbits from the sand-hills, and
pigeons from the towers of the minster. The clear chill Rhenish vied with
the more generous wine of Burgundy and the red juice of Assmanhauser. For
me, as was natural, I ate little. I spoke not at all. But I looked so
dangerous with my swarthy face and desperate eye, I dare say, also I was
so well armed, that the roysterers left me severely alone.

But I drank--Lord, what did I not drink that night! I poured down my
gullet all and sundry that was given me. And to render these Bishop's
thralls their dues, there was no lack and no inhospitality. But the
strange thing of it was that, though I am a man more than ordinarily
temperate, that night I poured the Rhenish into me like water down a
cistern-pipe and felt it not. God forgive me, I wanted to make me drunken
and forgetful, and lo! the dog's swill would not bite.

So I cursed their drink, and asked if they had no Lyons
Water-of-Life, stark and mordant, or social Hollands, or indeed
anything that was not mere compound of whey and dirty water. Whereat
they wondered, and held me thereafter in great respect as a good
companion and approven worthy drinker.

Then they brought me of the strong spirit of Dantzig, with curious
little flakes of gold dancing in it. It was raw and strong, and at first
I had good hopes of it. But I drank the Dautzig like spring-water, all
there was of it, and though it had a taste singularly displeasing to
me, it took no more effect than so much warm barley-brew for the palates
of babes. Upon this I had great glory. For the card-players and the
dicers actually left their games and gazed open-jawed to see me drink.
And I sat there and expounded the Levitical law and the wheels of the
Prophet Ezekiel, the law of succession to the empire, and also the
apostolic succession--all with surprising clearness and cogency of
reasoning. So that before I had finished they required of me whether it
was I or my master who was sent for to dispute before His Sovereign
mightiness the Emperor.

Then I told them that the things I knew (that is, which the Hollands had
put into my head) were but the commonest chamber-sweepings of my master's
learning, which I had picked up as I rode at his elbow. And this bred a
mighty wondering what manner of man he might be who was so wise. And I
think, if I had gone on, Dessauer and I might both have found ourselves
in the Bishop's prison, on suspicion of being the devil and one of his
ministrants.

But suddenly, as with a kind of recoil or back stroke, all that I had
drunken must have come upon me. The clearness of vision went from me like
a candle that is blown out. I know not what happened after, save that I
found myself upon my truckle-bed, with my leathern money-pouch clasped in
my hand with surprising tightness, as if I had been mortally afraid that
some one would mistake my poor satchel for his own pocket.

So in time the morrow came, and by all rules I ought to have had a
racking headache. For I saw many of those that had been with me the night
before pale of countenance and eating handfuls of baker's salt. So I
judged that their anxiety and the turmoil of their hearts had not burned
their liquor up, as had been the case with me.

Now it is small wonder that all my soul cried out for oblivion till I
should be able to do something for the Beloved--break her prison, hasten
the troops from Plassenburg, or in some way save my love.

Hardly had I looked out of the main door that morning, desiring no more
than to pass away the time till the trial should begin again, before I
saw the Lubber Fiend, smirking and becking across the way. He had
squatted himself down on the side of the street opposite, looking over at
the Bishop's palace.

He pointed at me with his finger.

"Your complexion runs down," he said. "I know you. But go to the spring
there by the stable, wash your face, and I shall know you better."

This was fair perdition and nothing less. For one may stay the tongue of
a scoundrel with money, or the expectation of it, until opportunity
arrive to stop it with steel or prison masonry. But who shall curb or
halter the tongue of a fool?

Then, swift as one that sees his face in a glass, I bethought me
of a plan.

"See," I said, "do you desire gold, Sir Lubber Fiend?"

He wagged his great head and shook his cabbage-leaf ears till they made
currents in the heavy air, to signify that he loved the touch of the
yellow metal.

"See then, Lubber," said I, "you shall have ten of these now, and ten
more afterwards, if you will carry a letter to the Prince at Plassenburg,
or meet him on the way."

"Not possible," said he, shaking his head sadly; "my little Missie has
come to Thorn."

"But," said I, "little Missie would desire it; take letter to the Prince,
good Jan, then Missie will be happy."

"Would she let poor Jan Lubberchen kiss her hand, think you?" he asked,
looking up at me.

"Aye," said I; "kiss her cheek maybe!"

He danced excitedly from side to side.

"Jan will run--Jan will run all the way!" he cried.

So I pulled out a scrap of parchment and wrote a hasty message to the
Prince, asking him, for the love of God and us, to set every soldier in
Plassenburg on the march for Thorn, and to come on ahead himself with
such a flying column as he could gather. No more I added, because I knew
that my good master would need no more.

Then I went down with my messenger to the Weiss Thor, and with great fear
and pulsation of the midriff I saw the idiot pass the house of Master
Gerard. Then, at the outer gate, I gave him his ten golden coins, and
watched him trot away briskly on the green winding road to Plassenburg.

"Mind," he called back to me, "Jan is to kiss her cheek if Jan takes
letter to the Prince!"

And I promised it him without wincing. For by this time lying had no more
effect upon me than dram-drinking.


CHAPTER XLIII

THE TRIAL FOR WITCHCRAFT


The Bed of Justice was set by eight of the morning. For they were ever
early astir in the city of Thorn, though, like most early risers, they
did little enough afterwards all day.

With a sadly beating heart, I accompanied Dessauer in the same guise as
on the previous day. The crowd was even greater in and about the Hall of
Judgment. And when the Duke had taken his seat and his tools set
themselves down on either side, they brought in the Little Playmate.

She was dressed all in white, clean and spotless, in spite of prison
usage. She glanced just once about her, right and left, high and low, as
if seeking for a face she could not see, and from thenceforth she looked
down on the ground.

The argument as to torture had been concluded on the day before, and it
had been held inadmissible--not because of any kindly thought for the
prisoner, but because, according to the laws of the Wolfmark, in the
absence of the Hereditary Executioner, there was no one legally capable
of inflicting it.

Then came the evidence.

The first witness against the Little Playmate was old Hanne. She was
brought in by a cowled monk of dark and sinister appearance--in fact, as
my heart leaped to observe, I saw that she was accompanied by Friar
Laurence--he who had taught me my learning in the old days, and who
even then had watched the Little Playmate with no friendly eyes.

As she passed the judges I saw the deadly fear mount to agony on the face
of old Hanne. The look in her eyes of physical pain suffered and
overpassed was the same which I had often seen in the wars after the
surgeon has done his horrid work. That same look I saw now on the face of
Hanne. So I knew that somewhere in the dark recesses under the Hall of
Judgment the Extreme Question had been put to her, and to all appearance
answered according to the liking of the persecutors, though they dared
not torture so notable a public prisoner as Helene.

I saw a look of satisfied vindictiveness pass over the brutal features of
Duke Otho. He changed his position and whispered to his colleagues.

It was Master Gerard von Sturm who rose to put the questions to the
witness. And as he did so, I heard the steady sough of talk among the
people rise mutteringly in a low growl of anger and contempt. The Duke's
lictors struck right and left among the crowd, as men bent forward with
fierce hate in their voices, lowing like oxen, as if to clear their lungs
of a weight of contempt.

It was not thus in the old days, when there was no people's arbiter
in all the Wolfmark so famous or so popular as Master Gerard of the
Weiss Thor.

"What is the reason of that turmoil?" said I to my neighbor.

"This is the man who was her first accuser. Why, he dares not go outside
his house without a guard of the Duke's riders," said the man, picking at
his finger-nail with his teeth, as if it were a bone and he did not think
much of its savoriness.

"You have already confessed," said the advocate to old Hanne, when they
had propped up the poor wreck of skin and bone, "and you do now confess
that this maid and yourself have ofttimes had converse with the Enemy
of Souls?"

A spasm passed across the face of the witness, and a low sound proceeded
from her mouth, which might have been an affirmative answer, but which
sounded to me much more like a moan of pain.

"And you confess that she consulted you concerning the best means of
killing the Duke Casimir--by means of a draught to be administered to him
when he should, as was his custom, visit his Hereditary Justicer?"

"There was indeed a draught spoken of between us, noble sir," stammered
the old woman, "but it was not for the Duke Casimir, nor yet for--for any
evil purpose."

I saw the Friar Laurence incline his head a little forward and whisper in
Hanne's ear from his place behind her.

At the words she clasped her hands and fell on the floor, grovelling: "I
will say aught that you bid me, kind sir. I cannot bear it again. I
cannot go back to that place. I am too old to be tormented. I will bear
what testimony your excellencies desire."

"We wish only that you should tell the truth as you have already done of
your own free will in your pre-examination," said Master Gerard, "the
notes of which are before me. Was it not to kill the Duke Casimir that
this draught was compounded?"

The old woman hesitated. Friar Laurence stooped again.

"Yes!" she cried; "God forgive me--yes!"

An evil look of triumph sat on the face of Otho von Reuss. I think he
felt sure of his victim now.

"That is enough," said Master Gerard. "Take the old woman back to
her cell."

"Oh no, great Lord!" she cried, "not there! You promised that if I said
it I was to be let go free. Kill me, but do not send me back!"

The Duke moved his hand, and the old woman was led shrieking below.

Then came Friar Laurence, who testified that he had often seen old Hanne
instructing the young woman who was now a prisoner in the art of drugs,
in the preparation of images carven in dough--and it might be also in
clay--things well known in the art of witchery.

Further, he had been with the Duke Casimir at the last, and the Duke had
declared that he had partaken of a draught in the house of Gottfried
Gottfried, and immediately thereafter had been taken ill.

There was not much else of matter in the Friar's evidence, but the most
deep and vindictive malice against the prisoner was evident in every word
and gesture.

Then Master Gerard rose to address the judges. His venerable appearance
was enhanced by the sternly severe look on his face. He looked an
accusing angel from the pit, swart of skin and with eyes of flame. He was
tall and bent of figure, with the serpent-browed head set deep between
hunched shoulders like those of a moulting vulture. He grasped his bundle
of papers and rose to make his final speech.

The judges settled themselves to closer attention. The hush of
listening folk broadened to the utmost limits of the great hall. At a
whisper or a cough a hundred threatening faces were turned in the
direction of the sound, so strained was the attention of the people and
such the fear of the eloquence of this most famous pleader in all
Germany. In these days when learning has reached so great a pitch, and
is so general that in a largish city there may be as many as a thousand
people who can read and write, of course there are many eloquent men.
But in those days it was not so, and Grerard von Sturm was counted the
one Golden Mouth of the Wolfmark.

And this in brief was the matter of his speech. The manner and the
persuasive grace I cannot attempt to give:

"It has at all times been a received opinion of the wise that witchcraft
is a thing truly practised--by which such women as the Witch of Endor in
Holy Writ were able to call dead men out of their deep graves grown with
grass; or, as in that famous case of Demarchaus, who, having by the
advice of such a woman tasted the flesh of a sacrificed child, was
immediately turned into a wolf.

"Further, the testimony-of Scripture is clear: 'Thou shalt not suffer a
witch to live'; and, again, as sayeth the Wise Man, 'Thou hast hated
them, 0 God, because with enchantments they did horrible works.'

"Now, men may by conspicuous bravery guard their lives against assault by
the sword of the enemy, against the spear of the invader that cometh over
the wall, even against the knife of the assassin. But who shall be able
to keep out witchcraft? It moveth in the motes of the mid-day sun. It
comes stealing into the room on the pale beams of the moon. Witchcraft
rides in the hurtling blast, and shrieks in the gust which shakes the
roof and blows awry the candle in the hall.

"Enchantment can summon Azazeli, the Lord of Flesh and Blood, called in
another place the Lord of the Desert, by whose spiriting of the elements
even the pure water of the spring or the juice of the purple grape may
become noxious as the brew of the serpent's poison-bag.

"Of such a sort was the ill-doing of this woman. For her own hellish
purposes she desired and compassed the death of the most noble Duke
Casimir. There may be those who try to discover a motive for such an act.
But in this they do foolishly. For to those who have studied of this
matter, as I have done, it is well known that enchanters and witches ever
attack those who are the greatest, the noblest, and the most envied--not
hoping for any good to result to themselves, but out of pure malice and
envy, being prompted by the devil in order that the great and noble
should be destroyed out of the land. Well was it spoken then, 'Ye shall
not suffer a witch to live!'

"And if any plead hereafter of this evil-doer's youth, of her beauty, I
call you to witness that the Evil One ever makes his best implement of
the fairest metal. As the aged crone, her teacher and accomplice, hath
confessed, this Helene was for long a plotter of dark deeds. By the trust
of Duke Casimir in her maiden's innocence he was betrayed to death. That
one so fair and evil should be turned loose on the world to begin anew
her enchantments, and, like a pestilence, to creep into good men's
houses, is a thing not to be thought of. Is she to go forth breathing
death upon the faces of the young children, to sit squat, like hideous
toad, sucking the blood of the new-born infant, or distilling
poison-drops to put into the draughts of strong men which shall run like
molten iron through their veins till they go mad?

"Hear me, judges, I bid you again remember the word: 'Ye shall not suffer
a witch to live.' And in the name of the great unbroken law of the
Wolfmark, which I hold in my hand, I conclude by claiming the pains of
death to pass upon the witch-woman who by her deed sent forth untimely
the spirit of the most noble Duke Casimir, Lord of the city of Thorn and
Duke of the Wolfmark."

The pleader sat down, calmly as he had risen, and the judges conferred
together as though they were on the point of delivering their verdict.
There had been no sound of applause as Master Gerard had spoken--a hushed
attention only, and then the muffled thunder of the great audience
relaxing its attention and of men turning to whispered discussion among
themselves.

"Prisoner," said Duke Otho, "have you any to speak for you? Or do
you desire to make any answer to the things which have been urged
against you?"

Then, thrilling me to my soul, arose the voice of Helene. Clear and sweet
and girlish, without hurry or fear, yet with an innocence which might
have touched the hardest heart, the maiden upon trial for her life said a
simple word or two in her defence.

"I have no one to speak for me. I have nothing to say, save that which I
have said so often, that before God, who knows all things, I am innocent
of thought, word, or deed against any man, and most of all against Duke
Casimir of the Wolfsberg."

And as she spoke the multitude was stirred, and voices broke out here
and there:

"No witch!" "She is innocent!" "The guilty are among the judges!" "Saint
Helena!" "If she die we will avenge her!"

And though the lictors struck furiously every way, they could not settle
the tumult, and ever the mass of folk swayed more wildly to and fro. Nor
do I know what might have happened at that moment but for a cry that
arose in front of the throng.

"The Stranger! The Great Doctor! The Wise Man! Hear him! He is going to
speak for her!"


CHAPTER XLIV

SENTENCE OF DEATH


And there, standing by the place of pleading, with his foot on the first
step, I saw Dessauer, in his black doctorial gown, leaning reverently
upon a long staff.

He made a courteous salutation to Duke Otho upon the high seat.

"I am a stranger, most noble Duke," he began, "and as such have no
standing in this your High Court of Justice. But there is a certain
courtesy extended to doctors of the law--the right of speech in great
trials--in many of the lands to which I have adventured in the search of
wisdom. I am encouraged by my friend, the most venerable prelate, Bishop
Peter, to ask your forbearance while I say a word on behalf of the
prisoner, in reply to that learned and most celebrated jurisconsult,
Master Gerard von Sturm, who, in support of his cause, has spoken things
so apt and eloquent. This is my desire ere judgment be passed. For in a
multitude of councils there is wisdom."

He was silent, and looked at the Duke and his tool, Michael Texel.

They conferred together in whispers, and at first seemed on the point of
refusing. But the folk began to sway so dangerously, and the voice of
their muttering sank till it became a growl, as of a caged wild beast
which has broken all bars save the last, and which only waits an
opportunity to put forth its strength in order to shiver that also.

"You are heartily welcome, most learned doctor," said Duke Otho,
sullenly. "We would desire to hear you briefly concerning this matter."

"I shall assuredly be brief, my noble lord--most brief," said Dessauer.
"I am a stranger, and must therefore speak by the great principles of
equity which underlie all law and all evidence, rather than according to
the statutes of the province over which you are the distinguished ruler.

"The crime of witchcraft is indeed a heinous one, if so be that it can be
proven--not by the compelled confession of crazed and tortured crones,
but by the clear light of reason. Now there is no evidence that I have
heard against this young girl which might not be urged with equal justice
against every cup-bearer in the Castle of the Wolfsberg.

"The Duke Casimir died indeed after having partaken of the wine. But so
may a man at any time by the visitation of God, by the stroke which, from
the void air, falleth suddenly upon the heart of man. No poison has been
found on or about the girl. No evil has been alleged against her, save
that which has been compelled (as all must have seen) by torture, and the
fear of torture, from the palsied and reluctant lips of a frantic hag."

"Hear him! Great is the Stranger!" cried the folk in the hall. And the
shouting of the guards commanding silence could scarce be heard for the
roar of the populace. It was some time before the speech of Dessauer was
again audible.

Ho was beginning to speak again, but Duke Otho, without rising, called
out rudely and angrily:

"Speak to the reason of the judges and not to the passions of the mob!"

"I do indeed speak from the reason to the reason," said Dessauer, calmly;
"for in this matter there is no true averment, even of witchcraft, but
only of the administration of poison--which ought to be proven by the
ordinary means of producing some portion of the drug, both in the
possession of the criminal and from the body of the murdered man. This
has not been done. There has been no evidence, save, as I have shown,
such as may be easily compelled or suborned. If this maid be condemned,
there is no one of you with a wife, a daughter, a sweetheart, who may not
have her burned or beheaded on just as little evidence--if she have a
single enemy in all the city seeking for the sake of malice or thwarted
lust to compass her destruction.

"Moreover, it indeed matters little for the argument that this damsel is
fair to the eye. Save in so far as she is more the object of desire, and
that when the greed of the lustful eye is balked" (here he paused and
looked fixedly between his knees), "disappointment oft in such a heart
turns to deadly poison. And so that which was desired is the more
bitterly hated, and revenge awakes to destroy.

"But if beauty matters little, character matters greatly. And what, by
common consent, has been known in the city concerning this maid?

"I ask not you, Duke Otho, who have lived apart in your castle or in far
lands, a stranger to the city like myself. But I ask the people among
whom, during all these; past months of the plague, she has dwelt. Is she
not known among them as Saint Helena?"

"Aye," cried the people, "Saint Helena, indeed--our savior when there was
none to help! God save Saint Helena!"

Dessauer waved his hand for silence.

"Did she not go among you from house to house, carrying, not the
poison-cup, but the healing draught? Was not her hand soft on the brow of
the dying, comfortable about the neck of the bereaved? Day and night,
whose fingers reverently wrapped up the poor dead bodies of your
beloved? Who quieted your babes in her arms, fed thorn, nursed them,
healed them, buried them--wore herself to a shadow for your sakes ?"

"Saint Helena!" they cried; "Saint Helena, the angel of the Red Tower!"

"Aye," said Dessauer, in tones like thunder, "hear their voices! There
are a thousand witnesses in this house untortured, unsuborned. I tell
you, the guilt of innocent blood will lie on you, great Duke--on you
counsellors of evil things, if you condemn this maid. Your throne,
Duke Otho, shall totter and fall, and your life's sun shall set in a
sea of blood!"

He sat down calm and fearless as the Duke raged to Michael Texel, as I
think, desiring that the fearless pleader could be seized on the instant,
and punished for his insolence. But as the folk shouted in the hall, and
the thunder of cheering came in through the open windows from the great
concourse without, Michael Texel calmed his master, urging upon him that
the temper of the people was for the present too dangerous. And also,
doubtless, that they could easily compass their ends by other means.

I saw Texel despatch a messenger to the lictors who stood on either side
of Helene. The body-guard of the Duke stood closer about her as the Duke
Otho himself stood up to read the sentence.

I saw that the form of it had been written out upon a paper. Formerly it
was because of the stupidity in the Passion, the Passion of the
war itself: you verschwor to their destruction - all the old moral
Unthiere are einmüthig about "il faut les passions door."

The most famous formula for this is the New Testament, in that
mountain sermon, where, enclosed said, things are not quite on the
level to be considered. It is daselbst for example with practical
application to sexuality said "if your eye annoys you, then
tear it out: fortunately is not a Christian according to this rule. The
passions and desires destroyed, just for their stupidity and the
unpleasant consequences of their stupidity prevent, appears to us
today just as an acute form of stupidity. We admire the dentists no
longer pulling the teeth so that they no longer hurt thun ... With
some fairness to the other admitted that on the ground from which
the Christenthum has grown, the term "spiritualization of Passion"
is not concipirt could be.

The first church was struggling so, as is known, against the
"intelligent" in favor of the "poor of the mind": how should it be
an intelligent war against passion expect?

- The church fights passion with a cut in every sense: its practice,
its "cure" is the Castratismus.

They never ask: "How spiritualizes, beautifies, vergöttlicht you have
a craving?" - It has at all times the emphasis of the Discipline of the
extinction (of sensuality, of pride, the Herrschsucht, the greed,
vindictiveness of) laid. - But the passions at the root means to attack
life at the root of attack: the practice of the Church is hostile
... 2 This means blending, extermination, instinct is at war with
a craving for those chosen to be weak-willed, too degenerirt are
to get a Maass in it to hang from those natures, the La Trappe
Nöthiger have spoken in Gleidiniss (without parables -), any enmity
final statement, a gap between themselves and a passion.

The radical funds are only Degenerirten indispensable, and the
weakness of will, bestinunter talk, the inability to a stimulus
not to reagiren is itself merely a form of andre Degenerescenz.

The radical hostility to Todfeindschaft against the pensive sensuality
remains a symptom: it is expected hypothesis on the total condition of
such Excessive entitled. - That enmity, hatred that comes only
incidentally to its tip, even if such natures to radical cure, for the
cancellation of their "devil" will no longer have enough strength. You
look over the whole history of the priests and philosophers, the
artists added: the poisonous against the senses is not the Impotent said,
not even by the ascetics, but by the impossible ascetics, by those
who Nöthiger had to be ascetics ... 3 The spiritualization of sensuality
is called love: it is a great triumph over the Christenthum.

A triumph else is our spiritualization of enmity.

It is that deeply understands the Werth, it has to have enemies:
in short, that it does and vice versa when it closes and that
previously closed.

The church wanted to at all times, the destruction of their enemies:
we, we Immoralisten and anti-Christians, see our advantages is that
the church is ... Also in Politics is the spiritual enmity now become -
much wiser, much more thoughtful, more gentle. Almost every party
understands their self-interest in conservation is that the opposing
party does not come from staff, the same is true of the great policy.

A new creation because, as the new empire, has Nöthiger enemies than
friends: in opposition until it feels necessary, in contrast, it is only
necessarily ... Otherwise we are against the "internal enemy", also
because we have the spiritual enmity, because we have grasped their
Werth.

It is fruitful only at the cost of contrasts to be rich, young man,
only under the condition that the soul is not stretched, no desire for
peace ...

Nothing is more alien we become as the desirability of Formerly belonging
to the "peace of the soul," the Christian desirability; Nothing makes
us less envious than the morale-fat cow and the happiness of a
good conscience.

It has renounced the great life when one renounces war on the ...
In many cases, admittedly, the "peace of the soul" just a misunderstanding
- something else that is just not honest to appoint white. Without
further ado, and prejudice a few cases.

"Peace of the soul" For instance, the gentle radiance of a rich
animality into the moral (or religious) to be.

Or the beginning of the fatigue, the first shadows of the evening,
any evening raises.

Or a sign that the air is humid, that south winds approaching.

Or resist the appreciation of knowledge for a happy digestive
( "People love" sometimes called).

Or the silence of the genes are concerned, all the new things to taste and
waiting ... Or condition of a strong satisfaction is our ruling passion,
the feeling of satiety seltnen. Or the old weakness of our will,
our desires, our vices. Or laziness, persuaded by vanity, morally
aufzuputzen.

Or, the occurrence of a certainty, even dreadful certainty, after a long
Marterung by tension and uncertainty. Or the expression of maturity
and mastery in the middle of the tuna, creativity, work, want the
quiet Athmer, reached the "freedom of will" ... Twilight idols: who
knows? maybe just a kind of "peace of the soul" ... 4 - I bring a formula
in Princip. Each naturalism in morality, which means any healthy
moral instincts is one of life dominated - a bid of some of life
is with a particular canon of "Should" and "Should not" met, any
inhibition and hostility towards the life is so that page done.

The perverse morality, which means almost any morals that were
previously taught, revered, and preached has been aimed precisely
reversed against the instincts of life, - it is a secret soon,
soon to be loud and nasty this Verurtheilung instincts.

By saying "God sees the heart," she says No to the lowest and highest
desire of life and take God as an enemy of life ... The saint, in which
God's pleasure, is the ideal Castrat ... Life is too late, where the
"kingdom of God" begins ... 5 law that the term of such a sacrilege
against the living well, as in the Christian morality has become almost
sacrosanct, it has looked at, fortunately, also something Andres
grasped: the useless, Apparent, absurd, lying such a rebellion.

A Verurtheilung of life by the living remains as yet only the symptom of
a certain kind of life: the question of whether law, whether wrong, is
not so raised.

One would have a position outside of life, and the other is so well known
as one, as many as all of you who have lived it to the problem of
Werth of life ever to be allowed to touch: reasons enough to
understand that the problem is a problem for us is inaccessible.

When we talk of Werther, we talk on the inspiration, under the appearance
of life: life itself forces us values as to be, life itself werthet by us,
if we start values as ...

It follows that the nature of moral conflict which God as the
counter-concept and summarizes Verurtheilung of life, just a
Werthurtheil of life - what life?

What kind of life? - But I already gave the answer: the niedergehenden,
the weak, the weary, the verurtheilten life.

Morality, as it has been understood - as they were last formulirt nor
Schopenhauer was described as "negation of the will to live" -
Decadence is the instinct itself, which makes an imperative: it
says: "go to why" it is the Urtheil Verurtheilter ... 6 Are we
finally have what Naivetät it actually is, to say "so and so should
the man be!"

The reality shows us a delightful Reichthum types, the
luxuriance a wasteful form of game and change: and any meager
corner of moralist says: "No!

Man should be any different "?... He knows it even as it should be,
this chute and Mucke, he paints on the wall and says, "ecce homo !"... But
even when the moralist is just at the individual turns to him and
says, "so and so should you be!"

he does not hear, to make a fool of. The individual is a piece
of Fate, from the front and rear, a bill more, a necessarily more
for everything, and will be.

For him to say "change you" does require that all changes, even back yet
... And really, there was conséquent moralists, they wanted the person
differently, namely, virtuous, they wanted him to her picture, namely as
Mucke: they denied the world!

No small madness! Bescheidne No kind of immodesty! ... The moral, insofar
as they verurtheilt, in itself, not from respect, consideration,
intent to life, is a specific Irrthum with which you should have
no pity, a Degenerirten-idiosyncrasy, the untold amount of damage
has donated!

...

We others, we Immoralisten, conversely, have made our hearts for all
kind of understand, understanding, support.

We may not deny that we seek our glory is to be affirmative.

More and more is our eye for the economy worked, what all the needs and
auszunützen yet knows what the holy joke But the priest, the priest in
the sick reason rejects, for the economy in the law of life,
even from the disgusting species of Mucke the priest, the virtuous
pulls its advantages - what advantages?

- But we ourselves, we are here Immoralisten the answer ... - The
four major Irrthümer 1. Irrthum the confusion of cause and consequence.
- It giebt no more dangerous than the Irrthum sequence with the cause
to be confused: I warn him the real reason of the corruptions.

Despite this Irrthum belongs to the oldest and most recent habits of mankind:
it is even hallowed among us, it bears the name of "religion",
"morality".

Every sentence that religion and morality formulirt contain him, a
priest and moral law are the authors of those corruptions of reason. - I
take an example: Everyone knows the book of the famous Cornaro in which
his slender diet as Recept to a long and happy life - even virtuous
- anräth.

Few books have been read so much, yet now it is in England a
year in many thousands of copies.

I have no doubt that hardly a book (the Bible, such as cheap, gutted)
donated so much harm, so many lives shortened as so well-Curiosum.

Reason: the result of confusion with the cause.

The conventional Italiae saw his diet in the cause of his long life:
during the pre-condition for long life, the extraordinary slowness
of the metabolism, the low consumption, the cause of his slender
diet was.

It was not free, little or much to eat, his Frugalität was not a
"free will": he was ill when he ate more.

But who is not a carp, does not just good, but it has Nöthiger,
neat to eat.

A scholar of our days, with his rapid consumption of nervous force would
deal with the régime Cornaro's directed basically to. Crede experto.
- 2 The most general formula, which every religion and morality
is based, called "the Thue and let this and that - so you'll be
happy!

In the other case ..."

Every morality, every religion is imperative, - I call him the great
original sin of reason, the immortal unreason. In my mouth transforms
the formula into its reverse - first example of my "Umwerthung all
values as" a wohlgerathener man, a "Lucky", has certain acts thun and
are instinctively afraid before other actions, he bears the
organization which he represents physiologically in his relations
with people and things inside.

In formula: his virtue is the result of his happiness ... Long life, a
large offspring is not the reward of virtue, the virtue is much
more even those slowing of metabolism, which, among other things,
including a long life, an abundant offspring, shortly following the
Cornarismus has. - The church and morality say, "a gender, a race
is by truck and luxury to basically addressed."

My recovered reason says: when a nation is based, physiologically
degenerirt, then follow that vices and luxuries (ie the need for
ever greater and more frequent stimuli, as every exhausted nature
knows).

This young man will soon pale and withered. His friends say it is
the fault and the disease.

I say: that he was sick that he had not resisted the disease, was
the result of an impoverished life, an hereditary exhaustion.

The newspaper reader says: this party is such a basic error. My higher
politics says: a party who makes such mistakes is at the end - it has its
instinct for security no longer exists.

Every mistake in every sense, the result of instinct-degeneracy of
Disgregation of will: it is nearly so definirt the Poor . Everything
good is instinct - and, consequently, easy, necessarily, freely. The
hardship is an objection, the god is typically different from the hero
(in my language: the light feet, the first attribute of divinity).
3 Irrthum a false causality. - It has been believed at all times,
to know what is a cause: but where we took our knowledge, more
precisely, our faith, to know here?

From the realm of the famous "inner Thatsachen", which is as
yet no thatsächlich proved.

We thought ourselves in the act of will cause, because at least we
thought on the causation of That to catch.

Man insgleichen not be doubted that all antecedentia any action, their
causes, in the consciousness and had to seek it is wiederfänden
when they are looking for - as "motives": it would otherwise not
be released to her, for she was not responsible.

Finally, who would deny that a thought is caused? that the ego causes
the thought? ... Of these three "inner Thatsachen" with which the causality
seemed to promise, is the first and most convincing of the will
as the cause of the Conception of awareness ( "Spirit") as the cause
and later that of the I (the "subject" ) as the cause is just after
birth, after the determination of causation has been established
as empirical ...

Meanwhile, we have more considerate.

We believe today is not a word more of Allen. The "inner world" is full
of fantasies and Irrlichter: the will is one of them.

The desire to move no more, hence explains nothing - it merely
accompanies events, he may also be missing.

The so-called "motif": a Irrthum else.

Just a surface phenomenon of consciousness, a side of That, the
more nor the one That antecedentia obscured than that it represents.

And even I!

This fable is intended to become, for fiction, the word play: it has
altogether ceased to think, feel and want to ... What are the
consequences? It giebt no mental causes! The whole alleged empiricism
went to the devil! It follows that! - And we had a type of abuse
that "empiricism" driven, we had the world then created as a causal
world, will be a world as a ghost-world.

The oldest and longest psychology was at work here, she has done
nothing else: everything was happening her a tuna, tuna every
consequence of a will, the world she was a multiplicity of Thäter
a Thäter (a "subject") is pushed all Done at.

A man has his three "inner Thatsachen" The thing he most firmly believed
that the will of the spirit, the ego, self herausprojicirt, - he took
only the concept of being from the concept, I found he had "things" as
being set in his own image, according to his notion of ego as the
cause.

What wonder that he later in the things again, only what he had put into
it? - The thing itself, once again said that the term thing, just a reflex
of I's belief in a cause ...

And even your atom, my lords and mechanistic physics, how much Irrthum how
much rudimentary psychology is still in your atomic backward!

- Not to mention the "thing in itself", from the horrendum pudendum
metaphysician! The Irrthum as the cause of spirit with the reality confused!
And Maass made reality! And God called!

- 4 Irrthum the imaginary causes. - From auszugehn dream: a certain feeling,
for example, in consequence of a distant cannon shot will subsequently
be a cause untergeschoben (often a whole little novel in which just the
Dreaming is the main character). The sensation lasts now continued in a
kind of resonance: it waits almost until the cause of driving her to
work in the foreground to enter - now no more than a coincidence,
but as a "sense".

The cannon shot occurs in a causal manner, in an apparent reversal
of time.

The Later, the Motivirung, is first seen, often with hundreds of individuals,
as in the flash pass the shot follows ...

What happened?

The performances, which produced a degree of being, were the same as the
cause misunderstood. - Thatsächlich we make it in the guards as
well.

Our most general feelings - every kind of inhibition, pressure,
tension, explosion in the game and play against the institutions,
such as in particular the condition of the nerve sympathicus -
excite our cause shoot: we want a reason to us and so on are - we
are too bad or good to find.

It is never enough for us, just simply the Thatsache that we are so and
so, determine: we let these Thatsache only - be aware - if its a kind
Motivirung gave. - The memory, which in such case, without our
knowledge, in Thätigkeit occurs, leads former states of the same
type and the associated deformed Causal interpretations upward -
not their causality.

The belief of course, that the ideas underlying the processes of
consciousness accompanying the causes were determined by the memory
also brought up.

Thus, there is a habituation to a particular interpretation of the causes,
which in reality an exploration of the cause, and even exclude inhibits
5. Psychological explanation. - Something unknown to something
familiar to lead, facilitate, soothes, satisfies, giebt also a
feeling of power.

With the unknown is the risk of unrest, where the concern, - the first
instinct is that this embarrassing states away.

First principle: any explanation is better than none.

Because it is basically just a Loswerdenwollen stifling of ideas
that takes it not just strictly with the means to get rid of: the
first idea with which the unknown than known states does so well
that it "holds true for ". Evidence of lust ( "The Force") as the
Criterium of truth. - The causes of train-related and is therefore
excited by the feeling of fear.

The "Why?" if possible, not only the cause to give their own sake, but
rather a kind of cause - a soothing, liberating, facilitating cause.

That something already familiar, experienced, registered in the memory
as the cause, that is, is the first consequence of this need.
The New, the Unerlebte, the stranger is excluded as the cause. - It
is not just one kind of explanation as the cause sought, but a
selected and preferred type of statements which, where the fastest,
most often the feeling of the stranger, new, Unerlebten weggeschafft
has been - the most common explanations. - Result: a kind of
cause-setting outweighs increasingly concentrirt itself to the
system and is finally out dominant, which means other causes and
explanations simply exclusive. - The thought immediately Banquiers's
"business" of Christ to "sin", the girl of his love. 6 The whole
field of morality and religion belongs under this concept of imaginary
causes. - "Explanation" of disagreeable general feelings.

These are caused by nature, are hostile to us (evil spirits: most famous
case - misunderstanding of the hysterical as witches). These are caused
by acts which are not cheap (the feeling of "sin", the "sinfulness"
a physiological disaffection untergeschoben - you will always find
reasons to be dissatisfied with his).

The same penalties as are due, as a repayment for something that we do
not have tuna that we would not have to be (in the form of
Schopenhauer impudenter to a generalized sentences in which the
morality appears as what it is, as the actual Giftmischerin and
Verleumderin of life: "any great pain, he was physical, mentally,
he had said, what we deserve, because he could not come to us if
we do not deserved."

The World as Will and Presentation, 2, 666) . These consequences are due
as inconsiderate, bad expiring acts (which affects the senses as
the cause, as "blame" and give physiological Nothstände with Hülfe
other Nothstände as "earned" out). - "Declaration" of the general
pleasant feelings.

These are driven by confidence in God. These are due to the awareness
of good acts (the so-called "good conscience", a physiological
condition, sometimes a happy digestive confusingly similar).
These are due to the fortunate outcome of Undertakings (- naive fallacy:
the happy ending to a company or create a hypochondriac: a Pascal
certainly not pleasant general feelings). These are driven by faith, love,
hope - the Christian virtues. - In truth, all these alleged
statements and as follow-state translations of pleasure or pain, feelings
into a false dialect: one is to be hoped in the states, because the basic
physiological feeling again strong and rich, you trust God, because the
feeling of fullness and A quiet strength giebt. - The morality and
religion belongs entirely to the psychology of Irrthums: in each
case, confuses cause and effect, or the truth with the effect of
the lost confused as true, or a state of consciousness with the
causation of this state confused. 7 .

Irrthum of free will. - We now have no more sympathy with the term "free
will": we know only too well what it is - the disreputable theologians
masterpiece, which makes it giebt, to an end, humanity in its meaning
"responsible" to make the means they are subject to ...

I give here only the psychology all blame. - Everywhere, where
responsibilities are sought, it maintains the instinct of the penalties
and straightening wish to be, because the searches.

It has been becoming undressed his innocence, if any So-and-so to
His will, to intentions, to acts of accountability is fed back: the
doctrine of the will is much invented for the purpose of punishment,
that is found guilty of the wish to .

And she flashed a keen double-edged blade from some recess of her silken
serpentine dress.

"My lady, hear me," I pleaded. "Out of the depths of my heart I
protest to you--"

"Bah!" she cried, with a sudden uprising of tigerish fierceness in her
eyes, quick and chill as the glitter of her steel. "Go, I tell you, ere I
be tempted to strike! _Your heart!_ Why, man, there is nothing in your
heart but empty words out of monks' copy-books and proverbs dry and
rotten as last year's leaves. Ye have seen me abased. By the lords of
hell, I will abase you, Executioner's son! Aye, and you yourself, Hugo
Gottfried, shall work out in flowing blood and bitter tears the doom of
the pale trembling girl for whom you have rejected and despised Ysolinde,
Princess of Plassenburg!"


CHAPTER XLVII

THE RED AXE DIES STANDING UP


How I stumbled down the stairs and found myself outside the house in
the Weiss Thor I do not know. Whether the servitor, Sir Respectable,
showed me out or not has quite passed from me. I only remember that I
came upon myself waiting outside the gate of Bishop Peter's palace
ringing at a bell which sounded ghostly enough, tinkling like a cracked
kettle behind the door.

The lattice clicked and a face peeped out.

"Get hence, night-raker!" cried a voice. "Wherefore do you come here so
untimeously, profaning the holy quiet of our minster-close?"

"There was no very holy calm in the kitchen t'other night, Peter
Swinehead!" said I, my wits coming mechanically back to me at the
familiar sound.

"Ha, Sir Blackamoor, 'tis you; surely your chafts have grown strangely
white, or else are my eyes serving me foully in the torchlight."

Instinctively I covered as much of my face as I could with my
cloak's cape, for indeed I had washed it ere I went forth to see the
Lady Ysolinde.

"'Tis that you have slipped too much of the Rhenish down thy gullet, old
comrade," said I, slapping Peter on the back and getting before him so
that he might remark nothing more.

At that, being well pleased with my calling him comrade, he lighted me
cordially to my chamber, and there left me to the sleepless meditation of
the night.

The next day was one of great quietness in the city of Thorn. An uneasy,
sultry pause of silence brooded over the lower town. Men's heads showed a
moment at door and window, looked furtively up and down the street, and
then vanished again within. Plots were being hatched and plans laid in
Thorn; yet, while there was the lowering silence in the city, up aloft
the Wolfsberg hummed gayly like a hive. Once I went up that way to see if
I could win any news of my father. But this day the door into the Red
Tower stood closed, nor would any within open for all my knocking. So
perforce I had to return unsatisfied. Several times I went to the Weiss
Thor to spy the horizon round for the troops of Plassenburg. But only the
gray plain of the Mark stretched itself out so far as the eye could
penetrate--hardly a reeking chimney to be seen, or any token of the
pleasant rustic life of man, such as in my youth I remembered to have
looked down upon from the Red Tower. Beneath me the city of Thorn lay
grimly quiescent, like a beast of prey which has eaten all its neighbors,
and must now die of starvation because there are no more to devour.

The day passed on feet that crept like those of a tortoise, as the sullen
minutes dragged by, leaden-clogged and tardy. But the evening came at
last. And with it, knocking at the door of the Bishop's quadrangle and
interrupting my long talk with Dessauer, lo! a messenger, hot-foot from
the castle.

"To the learned Doctor and his servant, Gottfried Gottfried, being in
death's utmost extremities, sends greeting, and desires greatly to have
speech with them."

Thus ran my father's message in that testing hour where he had seen
so many! Yet I was but little surprised. There was no wonder in the
fact save the wonder that it should all seem so natural. Dessauer
rose quickly.

"I will go with you," he said; "it will be safer. For at least I can
keep the door while you speak with your father."

So, without further word, we followed the messenger up the long, narrow,
wooden-gabled street, and heard the folk muttering gloomily in the
darkness within, or talking softly in the dull russet glow of their
hearth-fires. For there were but few lighted candles in Thorn that
night. And I wondered how near or how far from us tho men of Plassenburg
might be encamping, and thrilled to think that at any moment a spy might
ride in to warn Duke Otho of the spy within his city, or the near
approach of his foe.

But so far all was quiet at the Red Tower. The wicket-gate in the angle
of the wall was open, and we passed in without difficulty. As I mounted
the stairs I heard the key turn behind us. Obviously, therefore, we were
expected. The gate of the Red Tower had been left open for our entrance;
and so soon as the birds were in the snare, it was shut, and the silly
goslings trapped.

Nevertheless we climbed up and up the dark stairs till we came to
the door of my father's garret. I pushed it open without knocking,
and entered.

"The most learned the Doctor Schmidt," I announced, lest there should be
some stranger in the room. And indeed my precaution was necessary enough.
For, from my father's bed-head, disengaging himself reluctantly, like a
disturbed vulture napping up from the side of a dying steer, Friar
Laurence rose out of the darkness, and, folding his robe about him,
stalked to the door without a word or nod to either of us. I stood
holding the edge of it till I had watched him well down the stairs. Then
Dessauer relieved me at the stair-head as I went to approach my father.

I saw a change in him, very startling, indeed, to see. "In the uttermost
extremity" he was, indeed, as he had written. A ghastly pallor overspread
his face; his eyes were wild, his breathing came both quick and hard.
The fire cast nickering lights over his face and on the outlines of his
lank figure under the scarlet mantle which had been cast over him. One
corner of it was cast aside, as if for air or coolness, and I could see a
thing which gave me a cold chill in the marrow of my spine.

My father still wore the dress which he only donned when some poor soul
was about to die and pay the forfeit.

At first Gottfried took no notice of me whatever, but lay looking at the
ceiling, his lips muttering something steadily, though what the words
were I could not hear.

"Father," I said at last, bending over him gently, "I have come to see
you."

M. Wieland 's biography of Dr. = = H. Döring. Complet in a ribbon. Jena,
Verlag von Carl Döbereiner. 1853rd WIELAND'S LIFE. _Christoph Martin
Wieland_ saw in the unfern the former free imperial city of Biberach
village Ober-wood home on 5 September 1733 the light of the world.

His father, _Matthias_ that there Pfarrstelle clothed, but soon afterwards
preacher at the Church of Mary Magdalene to Biberach ward, had the law,
he was initially dedicated to Hall later in the study of theology
swapped. He was an avid followers of the donor's and then became
widespread Pietism. Predominantly remained in his behavior is always a
degree of measured, a solemn seriousness, he of the priestly dignity
for inseparably held.
"Yes, father," I said to him, "we have both come home to you, the Little
Playmate and I. And now you will give us your blessing!"

"The Little Playmate--say rather the Little Princess," he cried,
cheerfully, as, with the air of one who brings good tidings, he sat up in
bed. Then he pointed to a chair on which a pillow had carelessly been
flung. "Little Maid," he said, looking at the cushion as if it had been
Helene, "I am glad you have come back to be wedded to my boy. That was
like you. I ever wished it, indeed. But I never expected to see my
children thus happy. Yet I always knew you and Hugo were made for each
other. You are at your sewing, little maid. Well, 'tis natural. I mind me
when my own love sat making dainties of just such delicate and wreathed
whiteness."

He paused, and then, his countenance suddenly changing, he looked
fearfully and fixedly at the chair.

"But, little maid, my own Helene," he cried, in a loud, gasping, alarmed
tone, "what is this, best beloved? Why, you are sewing at a shroud?
Surely such funeral-trappings become not bridals. A shroud--and there is
blood upon it! In spite of some very passionate comments to him about his Unmuth
Julien consultation input, but also looked back to feel not quite
extinct tenderness from several points of his letter indicates.

Resolutely but he said at the end of his letter: "I will remain alone,
and so God likes it long, a life drag when an uninterrupted sequence
of inconvenience without incorporation of a true pleasure, Seyn is
short enough.

"A calm reflection had to tell him that it is a worrying step was,
in his former position to verheirathen .

Ungeschwächt time, however, received a warm living Freundschaftsverhältniß
between Wieland and Julie Bondeli. "The evidence of a higher providential
care for him" Wieland believed, after his own speech in the meeting to
find a variety of circumstances, the fate of his life were crucial. In
barely an hour from the remote market town of Biberach Warthausen Wieland
learned the counts of the stadium to know in whose vicinity he
Chur Main hiss Hofrath de la Roche, the husband found his beloved
Sophie.

After a space of ten years, met him on his life his former bride to him
now with the warmest friendship entgegenkam sincere. A similar reception
was also from him to her husband Theil, a versatile educated man, who
in his letters about the monk beings ", also known as a writer of
beachtenswerthen side had shown. Wieland's character does it for the glory
that he had exchanged several letters unpartheiisch the merits of a man
recognized that he had snatched from his mistress. Among the social
circles in which Wieland has been included, except the above mentioned
persons, of Count Stadion oldest daughter, a countess v.

Schall and her sister, a lady pin in Buchau. Very probably felt Wieland
when he Biberach, where he was not a proper society was, according
Warthausen rushed to zuzubringen there a few days.

For mind and heart, he found his new surroundings in full satisfaction.
Industrious, he used the literary treasures to rich library of the Count
Stadium.

Wieland Had the morning with this collection of books employed, so he
undertook a tour of the lovely surroundings, to him the board to a delicious
Mahle invited. Reading and discussions of various kinds reduced him to
the other portion of the day, which is usually a musical evening
entertainment decided.

What Wieland circles particularly that owed, was the expansion of its
world and Menschenkenntniß caused by his retired life in Biberach,
where he was the biggest portion of the day to his Actentisch was
shackled, had not encouraged them.

The fine Weltton joined him in dealing with men witty and amiable women
everywhere contrary, at a time when he entered the practical life
and the conviction came that he had, from the uneasy dreams of his
imagination, the reality is quite different thought, as he now was.
After that kind of asylum, but it also drew his childhood sweetheart, which
is still the early place in his heart seemed to have preserved.

Irritable and susceptible to love, loved it cost him some struggle, the
extremely delicate relationships in Sophien to preserve the
purity, as it is credible testimonies suggest that continuously
received. Wieland was even able, with his love, and joke about them, what
he means by others in a letter that, in what he and the finest
against himself facing irony Sophien a kind of declaration of love making.
In an amicable relationship, he stood with her husband, who, without the
strange change in the whole sector approach Wieland was hardly so
intimately connected to it would have. In a former letter Wieland confessed
that he had nothing of which more was what he was, "neither Enthusiast,
nor Hexametrist still ASCET, prophet and mystic.

For some time he had all of the come back, and would be quite natural
to points, from which he was ten years. "To his friend Zimmermann Wieland
wrote about:" What most contributed to this transformation, or, if you
want this production to my original shape, hence the magic of the
enthusiasm I had ousted to the effect that was mainly the myriad
Misgeschick, North and plagues that interest me since returning to
my homeland pursued.

But as one came forward with a paper in his hand I stooped and laid
my father gently on his bed.

An officer of the Black Hussars, fantastically dressed in their
church-yard array, with skull and cross-bones slashed in silver across
his breast, accosted me.

"Hugo Gottfried, son of Gottfried Gottfried, in the name of the Duke Otho
and the State of the Wolfmark, I arrest you! Also you, Leopold von
Dessauer, Chancellor of the Princedom of Plassenburg. You are accused as
spies and enemies of the commonweal. Yield yourselves therefore to me,
without condition."

"I am indeed Hugo Gottfried," said I, "but you may see for yourselves the
mission on which I have come hither. And for this hour, at least, you
might have spared your brutal entry. Behold!"

I caught a torch from the nearest soldier, and let its light shine on
the dead face of the fourteenth Hereditary Justicer of the Wolfmark.

The men started back. The terrible countenance of the dead affected them
even more than the grim figure of the Red Axe as they had seen him
stalking from the Hall of Justice to the block.

"Ah," said the officer, not wholly irreverently, "Gottfried Gottfried has
gone now to the dark place to which he hath sent so many. But, after all,
he is dead--and I heard a monkish clerk prate the other day, 'Let the
dead bury their dead.' I have my orders, and the Duke Otho waits.
Therefore I bid you follow me, Hugo Gottfried and Leopold von Dessauer."

So, leaving the body of my father lying on the bed in his garret, we were
constrained to follow our captors down the stairs. Across the court-yard
we were hurried, and through the Hall of Justice into the private
apartments of the Duke.

Otho von Reuss, now Duke of the Wolfmark, was standing erect by the great
chair in which, as my father had so often described him to me, Casimir
had sat so many days with his head sunk on his breast. The new Duke stood
up proudly, gazing at us with frowning brows and lowering, narrowed eyes.
This was mighty fine, but I could not help thinking of the poor
appearance he had made on the hill above the Hirschgasse as he slunk off
when he saw an evil cause going desperately against him.

"So," he said, "gentlemen both, I have caught you spying in my land. You
know what those have to expect who are caught in hostile territory in
disguise."

I thought it was as well to take the high hand at once, especially since
I saw that humility would avail us nothing at any rate.

"Before now I have seen Otho von Reuss in hostile territory, and a right
cowed traitor he looked!" said I, boldly.

The Duke smiled upon me, like a man that has a complete retort on his
tongue but who is content for the present to reserve it.

"My friend," he said, suavely, "I will reply to you presently. I have a
word to speak to your betters."

He turned him about to Dessauer.

"And what, Lord High Chancellor of Plassenburg, think you of this
masquerading? Dignified, is it not? And your wondrous speech in court
that was to have done such great things. Will you be pleased to abide
with us here in the Wolfsberg? Or must you forsake us to pleasure the
Emperor, who, poor man, cannot sleep of nights in his bed at Ratisbon
till the eloquent Doctor is come to cheer him with the full-flowing river
of speech?"

"Duke Otho," said Dessauer, "my life is indeed in your hands. I hold it
forfeit. A few years less or more are but little to Leopold von Dessauer
now. But there is one who will most bloodily avenge us if a hair of our
heads falls to the ground."

"Who?" said Otho, sneeringly. "Karl Miller's Son, I suppose. Ah, fool
that you are, I hold your poor Karl in the palm of my hand!"

"It is like enough," said Dessauer, with a quick look, the look of a keen
fencer when he sees an advantage. "I have often enough seen the palm of
your hand approach Karl Miller's Son's treasury when I kept the moneys."

I saw the face of Otho twitch angrily. But he had evidently made up his
mind to command his temper, sure of having that up his sleeve which would
sufficiently answer all taunts.

"You mistake me," he said, with more subtlety than I had expected from
the brute. "I had not meant to prove ungrateful. I am but newly come to
my own here in the Wolfmark. I have learned from your host, Bishop
Peter, how precious a thing forgiveness is. And now I am resolved to
practise it. There is a time to love and a time to hate; a time to war
and a time to be at peace. This is the last news I had from the holy
clerk whose revenues I pay. So lay it to heart, as I have done."

"Glad am I," said Dessauer, courteously, as if he had been turning a
phrase on the terrace at Plassenburg--"glad am I that in your hour you
are to be mindful of old friends, for they are like old wine, which grows
better and mellower with the years."

"It is indeed well," said Otho von Reuss, ironically. "I have known the
Chancellor Dessauer many years, and he grows more honorable and more wise
with each decade.

"But now 'tis with this young man that I would speak," he said, changing
his tone. "He at least is mine own servant, and so I have other words for
him. Hugo Gottfried, you remember that you insulted me, striking me on
the face with a glove, because I offered certain civilities to a maid of
honor to the Princess of Plassenburg. You wounded me in the arm. Your
father, of whose death I have heard but now, cast me forth like a cur-dog
from a chamber window. Between you ye have shamed me, and would shame me
worse--for the sake of the murderess of mine uncle, Duke Casimir."

"Well do you know that the Lady Helene is innocent of that crime, or any
other," said I; "she is purer than your eyes can look upon or your heart
conceive. Yet, solely because she knows you for the foul thing you are,
Helene lies condemned in your dungeons to-night. I ask you to grant me
but one boon--that I may die with her!"

"Nay, my friend, gentlest squire of dames, defender of the oppressed, I
have better things in store for you and your maid than that!"

He paused and looked a long while at me, as it seemed, chewing the cud
of revenge upon that which he had to say to me.

At last he came a step nearer, that he might look into my eyes.

"Hugo Gottfried," he said, slowly, "son of Gottfried Gottfried, you are
my servant now. I said that I would forgive you all for the sake of old
times in exile together. And now you and I are both again in our own
land. They that kept us out of our offices are dead, and we standing in
their places. There is a maid down there in the Wolfsberg dungeons who
to-morrow must meet her fate."

He paused a moment and laid his hand on my shoulder impressively.

"And you, Hugo Gottfried, Hereditary Justicer of the Dukedom, Red Axe of
the Wolfmark, art the man who must carry out that doom!"

Again he paused--and the world seemed instantly to dissolve into
whirling vapor at his words. I had never once thought of such a
conclusion. Yet I was indubitably, by my father's death, Hereditary
Executioner of the Wolfmark. Red Axe of Thorn I was, and by a terrible
chance I had returned in time to be installed in mine office, even as
the Lady Ysolinde had foretold.

But a strong thought swelled triumphant in my heart.

"Well," said I, looking the sneering tormentor in the face, "if so be
that I am your Hereditary Justicer, it will be long ere a sentence so
monstrous shall be carried out by me. I will not slay the innocent, nor
pour out the blood of a virgin saint, for a million deaths. You can
torture me with all your hellish engines, and you will find that a
Gottfried has learned how to suffer, as well as, how to make others
suffer, in fourteen generations. As God strengthens me, I will never
carry out your sentence--do with me what you will."

"Nobly said, Justicer of the Mark!" said Otho. "I had thought of that!
But in case you should refuse to do your lawful office, it may be well
for you to remember that I have other instruments that mayhap will please
you less."

He threw open a door suddenly, and we looked into an underground hall,
where a dozen men were carousing--Duke Casimir's Hussars of Death,
black-browed, evil-faced, slack-jowled villains every man of them, cruel
and sensual. A blast of ribald oaths came sulphurously up, as if the
mouth of hell had been opened.

"Listen!" said Otho, with his hand on my shoulder.

And a jest struck to our ears concerning the prisoner, the Little
Playmate--a jest which sticks in my memory to this day. And even yet I
hope to cleave the jester through the brain, meet him when I may.

The Duke shut the door, and turned to me again. His eyes narrowed to a
thin line which glittered with hate and triumph.

"If you, Hugo Gottfried, Hereditary Executioner of the Mark, refuse to do
your duty at the time appointed upon the prisoner condemned, I, Duke
Otho, solemnly declare that I will cast your fair and tender lamb into
that den of wolves down there to work their wills upon. Hark to them!
They will have no misgivings--no qualms, no noble renunciations."

Then he turned to me airily and confidently.

"Well, my good Justicer, will you carry out the just and merciful
sentence of the law, and baptize your Red Axe with the blood of her for
whose sake you chose to insult and wound a Duke of the Mark?"

I turned away, sick at heart.

"Give me time. God's mercy--give me time!" I cried. "At least let me see
Helene. I will give you my answer to-night. But, first of all, let me see
my beloved."

"I am forgiving and most merciful," he said, smiling till his teeth
showed. "Observe, I do not even cast you into prison to make sure of you.
Go your ways" (he sat down and wrote rapidly); "here is a pass which will
enable you to visit the prisoner. At midnight I shall expect you to tell
me that to-morrow you will fulfil your office."

He handed me the paper and motioned us away.

"We are free to go?" said I, wonderingly.

"Surely," he replied, smiling. "Are you not both my friends, and can Otho
von Reuss be forgetful of old times? Come and go at your pleasure. Be
sure to be here to give me your answer at midnight to-night--or--"

He pointed with his hand to the door he had again opened, and with the
fingers of his other hand beat time to the blasphemous chorus which came
belching up from below.


CHAPTER XLIX

THE SERPENT'S STRIFE


Dazed and death-stricken by the horror of the choice which lay before me,
I hastened down the street, hardly waiting for Dessauer, who toiled
vainly after me. I knew not what to do nor where to turn. I could neither
think nor speak. But it chanced that my steps brought me to the house of
the Weiss Thor. Almost without any will of mine own I found myself
raising the knocker of the house of Master Gerard von Sturm. Sir
Respectable instantly appeared. I asked of him if the Lady Ysolinde would
see me--giving my name plainly. For since Duke Otho knew me, there was no
need of concealment any more.

The Lady Ysolinde would receive me.

I followed my conductor, but not this time to the room in which I had
seen her on the occasion of my last visit.

It was in her father's chamber that I met the Princess. The room was as I
had first seen it. Only there was no ascetic old man with keen, deep-set
eyes and receding forehead to rear his head back from the table as though
he would presently strike across it like a serpent from its coil.

For the moment the room was empty, but, ere I had time to look around,
the curtains moved and the Lady Ysolinde appeared. Without entering, she
set a hand on the door-post, and stood poised against the heavy curtain,
waiting for me to speak.

Her face was pale, her thin nostrils dilated. Anger and scorn sat white
and deadly on every feature.

"So," she said, intensely, as I did not speak, "you have come back
already, most noble Hereditary Justicer of the Mark! Even as I told
you--so it is. You come to ask mercy from the woman you despised, from
the woman whose love you refused. You would beg her to spare her enemy.
Ere you go I shall see you on your knees; ah, that will be sweet. I have
been on my knees--can I believe it? Nay, I shall not forget it. I,
Ysolinde of Plassenburg, have pled in vain to you--to you!"

And the accent of chill hatred and malice turned me to stone.

"My lady," said I, "well do you know that I would never ask aught for my
own life, though the Red Axe itself were at my neck. But it is for the
maid I love, for the little child I carried home out of the arms of the
man condemned. I ask for her life, who never wronged you or any in all
this world. You have heard that task which the Duke hath laid on me,
because it is my misfortune to be my father's son--I must take away my
love's sweet life, or, if I do not--" I could proceed no further for the
horror which rose in my heart.

"I know it," she said, calmly; "my father hath told me all."

"Then," cried I, "if the power lie with you, as you hope for mercy to
your own soul, be merciful! Save the maiden Helene from the death of
shame, and me from becoming her murderer!"

"Ah," she answered, with delicatest meditative inflection, "this is
indeed sweet. The mighty is fallen indeed. The proud one is suppliant
now. The knee is bent that would not bend. Hearken, you and your puling
babe, to the Princess Ysolinde! Were your lives in that glass, to save or
to destroy--her life and your suffering--to make or to break, I would
fling them to destruction, even as I cast this cup into the darkness!"

And as she spoke the wreathed beaker of Venice glass sped out of the
window and crashed on the pavement without.

"Thus would I end your lives," she said, "for the shame that you two put
upon me in the day of my weakness."

"Lady," I cried, eagerly, "you do yourself a wrong! Your heart is better
than your word. Do this deed of mercy, I beseech you, if so be you can.
And my life is yours forever!"

"Your life is mine, you say," cried she; "aye, and that means what?
The wind that cries about the house. Your life is _mine_--it is
a lie. Your life and love both are that chit's for whom you have
despised--rejected--ME!"

And I grant that at that moment she looked noble enough in her anger as
she stood discharging her words at me with hissing directness, like bolts
shot twanging from the steel cross-bow.

"And, lest you should think that I have not the power to save you, I will
tell you this--when you shall see the neck bared for the blade of the Red
Axe, the fine tresses you love, that your eyes look upon with desire, all
ruthlessly cut away by the shears of your assistants--ah, I know you will
remember then that I, Ysolinde, whom you refused and slighted, had the
power in her hand to deliver you both with a word, according to the
immaculate laws of the Wolfmark. Aye, and more--power to raise you both
to a pinnacle of bliss such as you can hardly conceive. In that hour,
when you see me look down upon your anguish, you will know that I can
speak the word. You will watch my lips till the axe falls, and under your
hand the young life ebbs red. But the lips of Ysolinde will be silent!"

"Such knowledge is an easy boast, Lady Ysolinde!" I answered, thinking
to taunt her, that she might reveal whether indeed she had the power
she claimed.

"There," she said, pointing to the great collection of black-bound books
and papers about the walls; "see, the secret is there--the secret for the
lack of which you shall strike your beloved to the death to save her from
the unnamable shame. I know it; my father has revealed it to me. I have
seen the parchment in these hands. But--you shall never hear it, she
never profit by it, and my vengeance shall be sweet--so sweet!"

And she laughed, with a strange crackling laugh that it was a pain to
hear.

"God forgive you, Lady Ysolinde," said I, "if this be so. For if there
be a God, you must burn in Great Hell for this deed you are about to
do. Having had no mercy on the innocent, how shall you ask God to have
mercy on you?"

"I will not ask Him!" she cried. "Instead of puling for mercy I will have
had my revenge. And after that, come earth, heaven, or hell--I shall not
care. All will then be the same to Ysolinde!"

I thought I would try her yet once more.

"The Little Playmate," I said, "the maid whom I have ever loved, though I
am not worthy to touch her, is no chance child, no daughter of the Red
Axe of Thorn. Leopold von Dessauer hath found and sent to Karl the Prince
the full proofs that Helene is the daughter of the last and rightful
Prince, and therefore in her own right Princess of Plassenburg."

"You lie, fool!" she cried--"you lie! You think to frighten me. And even
if it were true--thrice, four times fool to tell me! For shall not I, the
Princess of Plassenburg, the wife of the reigning Prince, stand for my
own name and dignity. I would not help you now though a thousand fair
heads, well-beloved, the desire of men, the envy of women, were to be
rolled in the dust."

"Then farewell, Princess," I cried; "you are wronging to the death of
deaths two that never did you wrong, who loved each other with the love
of man and woman before ever you crossed their paths, and who since then
have only sought your good. You wrong God also, and you lose your soul,
divorcing it from the mercy of the Saviour of men. For be very sure that
with that measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again."

She did not answer, but stood with her hand still against the door-post,
her head raised, and her lips curling scornfully, looking after me as I
retired with a smiling and malicious pleasure.

So, without further speech, I went out from the presence of the Lady
Ysolinde. And thus she had the first part of her revenge.


CHAPTER L

THE DUNGEON OF THE WOLFSBERG


And now I must see the Little Playmate. Judge ye whether or no my heart
was torn in twain as I went up the long High Street of Thorn, back to the
Wolfsberg, alone. For I had compelled Dessauer to return to Bishop
Peter's, in order to avert popular suspicion, since our real names and
errands were not yet known there.

And when I parted from him the old man was so worn out that I looked
momently for him to drop on the rough causeway stones of the street.

Many pictures of my youth passed before me as I mounted towards the
castle that night. I remembered the ride of the wild horsemen returning
from the raid such long years agone, the old man who carried the babe,
and the Red Axe himself, who now lay dead in the Tower--my father,
Casimir's Justicer, clad now as then in crimson from head to heel.

Ere long I arrived at the Wolfsberg, and as I came near the Red Tower I
saw that the gate was open. A little crowd of men with swords and
partisans was issuing tumultuously from it. Then came six carrying a
coffin. I stood aside to let them pass. And not till the last one brushed
me did I ask what was their business abroad with a dead man at such a
time of the night.

"'Tis one that had wrought much fear in his time," answered the soldier,
for I had lighted on a sententious fellow--"one that made many swift
ends, and now has come to one himself."

"You mean Gottfried Gottfried, the Duke's Justicer?" said I, speaking
like one in a dream.

"Aye," he replied. "The Duke Otho is mightily afraid of the plague, and
will not have a dead body over-night in his castle. Since they condemned
the Saint Helena, God wot, the Duke is a fear-stricken man. He sleeps
with half a dozen black riders at the back of his door, as though that
made him any safer if a handful of minted gold were dealt out among the
rascals. But when was a Prince ever wise?"

"My father's funeral," thought I. "Well, to-night it is, indeed, 'let the
dead bury their dead'; Helene is yet alive!"

Surely I am not wanting in feeling, yet my heart was strangely chill and
cold. Nevertheless, I turned and followed the procession a little way
towards the walls. But even as I went, lo! the bell of the Wolfsberg
slowly and brazenly clanged ten. I stopped. I had but two hours in which
to visit the Little Playmate and tell her all.

"Good-bye, father," said I, standing with my hat off; "so you would wish
me to do--you who met your God standing up--you who did an ill business
greatly, because it was yours and you were born to it. Teach me, my
father, to be worthy of you in this strait, to the like of which surely
never was man brought before!"

The men-at-arms clattered roughly down the street, shifting their
burden as if it had been so much kindling-wood, and quarrelling as to
their turns. I heard their jests coming clear up the narrow street
from far away.

I stood still as they approached a corner which they must turn.

I waved my hand to the coffin.

"Fare you well, true father; to-night and to-morrow may God help me also,
like you, to meet my fate standing up!"

And the curve of the long street hid the ribald procession. My father
was gone. I had made choice. The dead was burying his dead.

I went on towards the prison of the Wolfsberg; so it was nominated by a
sort of grim superiority in that place which was all a prison--the castle
which had lorded it so long over the red clustered roofs and stepped
gables of Thorn, solely because it meant prisonment and death to the
rebel or the refuser of the Duke's exactions.

Often had I seen the straggling procession of prisoners rise, head
following head, up from that weary staircase, my father standing by, as
they came up from the cells, counting his victims silently, like a
shepherd who tells his flock as they pass through a gap in the sheepfold.

For me, alas! there was but one in that dread fold to-night. And she my
one ewe lamb who ought to have lain in my bosom.

I clamored long at the gate ere I could make the drowsy jailer hear. As
the minutes slipped away I grew more and more wild with fear and anger.
At midnight I must face the Duke, and it was after ten--how long I knew
not, but I feared every moment that I might hear the brazen clang as the
hammer struck eleven.

For time seemed to make no impression on me at all that night.

At last the man came, shuffling, grumbling, and cursing, from his
truckle-bed.

"What twice-condemned drunken roysterer may you be, that hath mistaken
the prison of Duke Otho for a trull-house?

"An order from the Duke--to see a prisoner! Come to-morrow then, and,
meanwhile, depart to Gehenna. Must a man be forever at the beck and call
of every sleepless sot? 'Urgent'--is the Duke's mandate. Shove it through
the lattice then, that a lantern may flash upon it."

I pushed under the door a broad piece of gold, which proved more to the
purpose than much speech.

The door was opened and I showed my pass. That and the gold together
worked wonders.

The jailer rattled his keys, donned a hood and woollen wrapper which he
took down from a nail, and went coughing before me down the chill,
draughty passages. I could hear the prisoners leaping from their couches
within as the light of his cresset filtered beneath their doors. What
hopes and fears stirred them! A summons, it might be, for some one in
that dread warren to come up for a last look at the stars, a walk to the
heading-place through the soft, velvet-dark night--then the block, the
lightning flash of bright steel, a drench of something sweet and strong
like wine upon the lips, and--silence, rest, oblivion.

But we passed the prison doors one by one, and the jailer of the
Wolfsberg went coughing and rasping by to another part of the prison.

"'Tis an ill place for chills," he grumbled. "I have never been free of
them since first I came to this place, no--nor my wife neither. She has
been dead these ten years, praises to the pyx! Ah, would you?" (The torch
threatened to go out, so he held it downward in his hand till the pitch
melted and caught again, and meanwhile we stood blinded in the smoke and
glare which the strong draught forced in our faces.)

At last came the door, a low, iron-spiked grating, like any other of the
hundred we had passed.

"Key-metal is not often weared on this cell," the man chuckled. "Those
stay not long above ground that bide here."

The door swung back on its creaking hinges. I slipped the fellow another
gold piece.

"I must come in with you," he said; "you might do the wench an ill turn
which would cheat the Duke of his show and me of my head to-morrow."

I slipped him another piece of gold, and then three together.

"Risk it, man," I said. "Have I not the Duke's own pass? I will do
her no harm."

"Well," he said, "pray remember I am a man with five poor motherless
children. My wife died of falling down a flight of steps ten years
agone--praise the Lord for His mercies. For He is ever mindful of us, the
sinful children of men."

The sound of his voice died away as the door closed. I turned, and was
alone with the Beloved. The jailer had stuck the cresset in its niche
behind the door, and its glow filled the little cell.

At first I could not see the Little Playmate--only a rough pallet bed and
something white at the head of it. But as the cresset burned up more
clearly, and my eyes became accustomed to the bleared and streaky light,
I saw Helene, my love, kneeling at her bed's head.

I stood still and waited. Was she asleep? Was she--was she dead? I
almost hoped that she might be. Then the Duke's vengeance would be
balked indeed.

"Helene!" I said, softly, as one speaks to the dying--"Helene, dear,
dear Helene!"

Slowly she looked up. Her face dawned on me as one day the face of the
blessed angel will shine when he calls me out of purgatory.

"My love--my love!" she said, sweetly, like the first note of a hymn when
the choir breathes the sweet music rather than sings it.

Ah, Lord of Innocence, that pure loving face, the purple deepness in the
eyes, the flush on the cheek as on that of a little child asleep, the
soft curled hair which crisped in the hollow of the neck--the throat
itself--Eternal God, that I should be alive to think of the horror!

But time was passing swiftly. The minutes were slipping by like men
running for their lives.

I raised Helene from her knees, and she nestled her head on my shoulder.

"You have come to me! I knew you would come. I saw you on the day--the
day when they condemned me to die."

I broke into an angry, desperate, protesting cry, so that I heard my own
voice ring strangely through that dumb, horrible place. And it was I who
sobbed in her arms with my head on her shoulder.

"Hush, dear love," she said, clasping her arms caressingly about my head;
"do not fear for me. God will keep your little one. God has told me that
He will bring me bravely through. Hush thee, then; do not so, Hugo, great
playmate! This I cannot bear. Help me to be good. It will not be long nor
painful. Do not weep for your little girl! I think, somehow, it is for
our love that I suffer, and that will make it sweet!"

But still I sobbed like a child. For how--how could I tell her?

Presently the power returned slowly to me, seeing her smiling so bravely
up at me, and rising on tiptoe to kiss my wet face.

Then I told her all--in what words I hardly remember now.

"Love of mine," I said, "I have but an hour or less to speak with
you--and ah! such terrible things, such inconceivable things, to say; a
horror to reveal such as never lover had to tell his love before."

She drew one of my hands down and softly patted her breast with it.

"Fear not," she said; "tell it Helene. If it be true that love conquers
all, your little lass can bear it!"

"I came," said I, "with purpose to see you, and by treachery (it skills
not to ask whose) I was taken at my dead father's bedside."

"Our father dead?" she cried, going a step away to look at me, but
coming back again immediately; "then there are but you and me in the
world, Hugo!"

"Aye," said I, "but how can I tell you the rest? My father died like a
man, and then they took me, still holding the dead in my arms. I was
confronted with a fiend of hell in the likeness of Duke Otho."

As I mentioned the Duke's name I could feel her shudder on my neck.

"And--But I cannot tell you what he has bidden me do, under penalties too
fearful to conceive or speak of."

She put her hands up, and gently, timidly, lovingly stroked my cheek.

"Dear love, tell me! Tell the Little Playmate!" she said, as simply and
sweetly as if she had been coaxing me to whisper to her some lightest
childish secret of our plays together in the old Red Tower.

I was silent for a space, and then, spurred by the thought of the swiftly
passing time, the words were wrenched out of me.

"He says that I, even I, Hugo Gottfried, my father's son, being now
hereditary Red Axe of the Wolfmark, must strike off the head of the one I
love. And if I will not, then to the vilest of devils for vilest ends he
will deliver her. Ah, God, and he would do it too! I saw the very flame
of hell's fire in his eyes."

Then I that write saw a strange appearance on the face that looked up in
mine. As on a dark April day, with a lowering sky, you have seen the wind
suddenly stir high in the heavens, and the sun look through on the
dripping green of the young trees and the gay bourgeoning of the flowers,
so, looking on my love's face as she took in my words, there awakened a
kind of springtime joy. Nay, wherefore need I say a kind of joy only. It
was more. It was great, overleaping, sudden-springing gladness. Her eyes
swam in lustrous beauty. She smiled up at me as I had never seen her
smile before.

"Oh, I am glad, Hugo--so glad! I love you, Hugo! It will be hard for you,
my love. And yet you will be brave and help me. I had far rather die at
your hand than live to be the bride of the greatest man in all the world.
Do that which will save me from, shame; do it gladly, Hugo. I fear it. I
saw it in the eyes of that man Otho von Reuss. But _only_ to die will be
easy, with you near by. For I love you, Hugo. And I could just say a
prayer, and then--well, and then--Do not cry, Hugo--why, then you would
put me to sleep, even as of old you did in the Red Tower!

"Nay, nay, dear love! You must not do so. This is not like my Hugo. See,
_I_ do not cry. Do you remember when you took me up and laid me on your
bed, and our father came and looked? You said I was your little wife. So
I was, even though I denied it, and now I can trust you, my husband. I
have never been aught else but your little wife, you see--not in my
heart, not in my heart of hearts!

"I have been proud with you, Hugo--spoken unkind things. For love, you
know, is like that. It hurts that which it would die for. But now you
will know, once for all, that I love you. For death tests all. And you
_will_ help me. You will not cry then, Hugo--not then, when we walk, you
and I, by the shores of the great sea. You will only send me a little
voyage by myself, as you used to make me go to the well in the
court-yard, to teach me not to be frightened!

"And then you will be with me when I go. You will watch me; soon, soon
you will come after me. Yes, I am glad, Hugo--so glad. For--bend down
your ear, Hugo--I will confess. Your little girl is such a coward. She
is afraid of the dark. But it will not be dark--and it will not be long,
and it will be sure. If my love stand by, I shall not fear. And, after
all, it is but a little thing to do for my love, when I love him so."

What I said, or what I did, I know not. But when I came a little to
myself, I found my head on my knees, and Helene soothing and petting me,
as if I had been a child that had fallen down and hurt itself.

"I would have been a good wife to you, Hugo; I had thought it all out. At
first I would have been such an ignorant little house-keeper, and you
would have needed--oh, such great patience with me! The Fatalität his
care is not remove from the Fatalität all of what was and what will be.
He is not the consequence of a suitable intention, a desire, a purpose,
it is not the attempt is made, an "ideal of man" or an "ideal
of happiness" or an "ideal of morality" to achieve - it is absurd , his
being in any one purpose to want to pass out.

We have used the term "purpose" invented in the reality of missing
the end ...

It is necessary, it is a piece Verhängniss, one belongs to the whole,
one is at large, - there is nothing giebt what our being set, measure,
compare, verurtheilen could, because that would mean the whole set,
measure, compare, verurtheilen. .. But it giebt Nothing except the
whole! - The fact that nobody is more responsible that the nature of being
is not confined to a causa prima returned may be that the world is neither
a sense nor as a "spirit" is a unit, so only the big exemption - so that
is the only innocence of becoming restored ... The term "God" has been
the greatest objection to existence ... We deny God, we deny
the responsibility in God: so that we only save the world. - The "improvers"
of mankind: 1.

You know my call to the philosophers, is beyond good and evil to
be sure - the illusion of moral Urtheils to have among themselves.

This demand follows from an insight that I have for the first time formulirt
was: that there is no moral Thatsachen giebt. The moral has Urtheil
The common with the religious, that it believes realities, which
are not.

Morality is only a Ausdeutung certain phenomena, certain speech, a
misinterpretation. The moral Urtheil heard how the religious, a level
of ignorance about, even on the concept of reality, the distinction
of the real and imaginary still missing: that "truth" on such
things louder level means that we are "fantasies" call.

Urtheil The moral is never to be taken literally: as such, it contains only
misnomer. But it remains invaluable as semiotics: it reveals, for the
least know who werthvollsten realities of culture and inwardness,
which knew not enough to turn itself to "understand".

Moral character is just talk, just symptomatology: one must already know
what it is to its benefit. 2 A first example and very preliminary. At all
times we the people "improve" want: this is especially called
morality.

But under the same word is the tendency of Allerverschiedenste
hidden.

Both the taming of the beast man as the cultivation of a certain
class of man is' improving 'have been mentioned: the only zoological
termini press from realities - realities of course, from those of
the typical "improver" the priest knows nothing - nothing wants to
know ...

Taming a Thiers his "improvement" there is in our ears almost a joke. Who
knows what will happen in the menagerie, can doubt that the beast daselbst
"improved". It is weakened, it is less harmful, they shall be replaced
by the depressive affect of fear, through pain, through wounds,
by starvation for morbid beast . - It is no different with the tamed
man, the priest "improved" has.

In the early Middle Ages, where in the That the church was all a
menagerie, made it allerwärts to the finest specimens of the "blond
beast" hunting, - known as "improved" for example, the Germans make.

Hinterdrein But how did such an "improved" in the monastery's seduced
from Germane?

Like a Caricature of man, like a freak: he was the "sinner" has
become, he STAK in the cage, they had him between a loud terrible
words locked up ...

Since he was now sick, miserable, malevolent against himself, full of
hatred against the drives to life, full of suspicion against all that
is strong and happy. In short, a "Christian" ...

Physiologically talk: in the battle with the beast can make sick
the only way to make them weak.

The church understood: it spoiled the people, they weakened him -
but it was claimed, it "improved" to have ... 3 Take another case
of so-called morality, the case of breeding a particular race and
kind .

The greatest example giebt India's morale, as the "Law of Manu"
sanktionirt to religion.

Here is the task of not less than four races at once to breed: a
priestly, one warlike, one retailer and ackerbauerische, finally
breed servants, the Sudras.

Apparent, we are no longer under Thierbändigern: a hundred
times lighter and more sensible kind of human being is a prerequisite
for even the breeding of such a plan to concipiren.

Man athmet to the Christian hospital and prison in the air healthier,
higher, further world.

How miserable is the "new testament" against Manu, how bad it
smells!

- But even this organization had Nöthiger, terrible to be - not
this time in the battle with the beast, but with its contrast-term,
the non-breeding humans, the human mishmash, the Tschandala.

And again, she had no means andres him safe, to make him weak, than to
make him sick - it was the fight with the "large number".

Perhaps there is nothing giebt our feelings opponent more exiting
than this protection rules Maass of Indian morality.

The third edict, for example (Avadana Sastra-1), the impure from the
vegetables, "order that the only food which is allowed Tschandala, garlic
and onions should be, given that the Scripture forbids them seeds
or fruits that bear seeds, or water or fire type.

The same edict is found that the water which they have Nöthiger, neither
from the rivers, nor the sources, nor from the ponds should be
taken, but only from the approaches to swamps and from holes, through
which the animals were Fusstapfen are.

Insgleichen they are forbidden to wash their laundry and to wash
themselves, as the water that comes from grace is granted only may
be used, the thirst to delete.

At last, a ban on the Sudra women, the Tschandala women at the birth
of help, insgleichen still one for the latter, while keeping each
other ... - The success of such sanitary police was not enough:
murderous epidemics, scheusslich STDs and to back to "the law of
the knife," the circumcision for the male, the removal of the small
labia for female children order. - Manu himself says: "the Tschandala
are the fruit of Adultery, Incest and crimes (- this is necessarily
the concept Consequenz breeding).

They should be dressed only the rags of corpses, for zerbrochne crockery
pots, old jewelry for iron, for only worship the evil spirits, they
should without rest from one place to another mountain. It is forbidden
to them, from left to right to write and the right hand to write to use:
the use of the right hand and from left to right is merely reserved
the virtuous, the people of race. " - 4 These decisions are
instructive enough: in them we have once Aryan humanity, quite pure,
quite originally, - we learn that the term "pure blood" of the
contrary is a harmless concept.

The other is clear in what the people hate, the hate-Tschandala
against this "humanity" immortalized where he has religion, where
he has genius ...

From this evidence, the Gospels, a document first-class, the book
even more Enoch. - The Christenthum from Jewish roots and comprehensible
only as a plant of this soil, represents the counter-movement against all
morality of breeding, of race, privilege is: - it is the anti-Aryan
religion par excellence: the Christenthum the Umwerthung all Aryan
values as, the victory of Tschandala Werth, the gospel to the poor, the
low preached, the total uprising everything Niedergetretenen, meek,
Missrathenen, Schlechtweggekommenen against the "race" - the immortal
Tschandala-revenge as a religion of love ... 5 Morals the breeding
and the morality of taming are the means to prevail, completely
worthy of each other: we must stand up as a top rate that, in order
to make morality, is the unconditional desire to counter Theil must
have.

This is the great, the uncanny problem which I am the longest investigated:
the psychology of "improvers" of mankind. A small and basically bescheidne
Thatsache the so-called pia fraus, gave me the first access to
this problem: the pia fraus, the genomes of all philosophers and
priests, the humanity "improved".

Neither Manu nor Plato nor Confucius nor the Jewish and Christian teachers
have ever right to lie their doubts.

You have to quite other rights not in doubt ... In formula should say:
all the means whereby mankind yet morally should be made, were made from
scratch immoral. - What the Germans off. 1 Among Germans, it is still
not enough to have spirit, you have to take him to take the spirit out ...
Maybe I know the Germans, perhaps I may even them say a few truths.
The new Germany represents a large quantum of inherited and
angeschulter efficiency, so that the treasure of aufgehäuften force
for a time even allowed to spend lavishly.

It is not a high culture, the Lord has become with him, still less a
delicate taste, a noble "beauty" of the instincts, but masculine
virtues than any other country in Europe can have.

Much Guther Muth and respect for themselves, a lot of safety in
transport, in the reciprocity of obligations, much industriousness,
a lot of stamina - and a angeerbte moderation which sting rather than
the brake demand.

I would add that there is still obeyed, without obeying the demüthigt
... And nobody despises his opponent ... You see, it is my desire
to meet the Germans to be: I would like to see is not to be unfaithful -
I have them also make my objection. It pays Theuermann, to come to power:
the power verdummt ... The Germans - once they told you the people of
thinkers: they think at all today? - The Germans are now bored with the
spirit, the Germans now mistrust the spirit, the politics devours
all seriousness for really intellectual things - "Germany, Germany
above everything", I'm afraid that was the end of German philosophy
...

"German philosophers Giebt it? Giebt are German poet? Giebt there good
German books?" ask me abroad.

I erröthe, but with the courage, to me even in desperate cases, ownership
is, I reply: "Yes, Bismarck!" - Could I just eingestehn which books
you read today? ... Vermaledeiter instinct of mediocrity!

- 2 - What the German spirit might be, who had not already thought
about his schwermüthigen gehabt!

But this people has arbitrarily verdummt, since nearly a millennium:
nirgendswo are the two major European Narcotica, alcohol and Christenthum,
depraved gemissbraucht been good. Lately, came even add a third, which
alone of all the fine and bold movement of the Spirit of Garaus can be
made, the music, clog clogged our German music. - How much morose heaviness,
lameness, dampness, dressing gown, how much beer is in the German
intelligence!

How is it possible that young men who have the intellectual goals weihn
its existence, not the first instinct of spirituality, self-preservation
instinct of the Spirit in feel - and drink beer? ... The alcoholism of
young scholars is perhaps no question mark in their learning
intentions - you can even without the spirit of a great scholar -
but in every other consideration, he remains a problem. - Where
would they not, the gentle degeneracy which beer produces in the
spirit!

I once almost in a famous case gewordnen finger on such a laid degeneration
- the degeneration of our first German free spirit, the clever David
Strauss, the author of a beer Bank gospel and "new faith" ... Not for
nothing, he had the "brown Holden" Gelöbniss be made in verse -
loyalty unto death ... 3 - I spoke of the German spirit: it is
coarser, it is flattened.

Is that enough? - Basically, it is something else that shocked me: as more
and more serious with the German, the German depth, German passion
in spiritual things go downhill.

The Pathos has changed, not just the intellectuality. - I touch
here and there German universities: what an air prevails among their
scholars, what dull, what frugal and lau gewordne spirituality!

It would be a profound misunderstanding, if I here the German science
would argue - and also a proof that you are not a word of mine has
read.

I'm seventeen years has not tired, entgeistigenden the influence of our
current operation in science's light.

The hard Helotenthum when the tremendous volume of Sciences today verurtheilt
every individual, is a main reason why full, richer, deeper natures not
created them modern education and educators find more. Our culture
is suffering from nothing more than to the abundance anmaasslicher
corner columns and broken pieces of humanity, our universities are
unwilling, the real hothouses for this kind of instinct-atrophy of
the mind.

And throughout Europe already has a concept like this - the big
politics deceives nobody ...

Germany is increasingly recognized as Europe's lowlands. - I am still looking
for a German, with which I am seriously in my own way could be - how
much longer after that I might be cheerful!

Idols Twilight: ah who terms it today, what kind of serious here
recovered a hermit!

- The Laughter is incomprehensible to us ... 4 You do a somersault,
it is not only apparent to us that the German culture is established,
it is also not sufficient reason.

No one can last longer than he has to spend - and this is true of
individuals, this is true of nations. Giebt one for power, for large
policies, Wirth shank, World Transport, parliamentary, military interests,
- giebt Quantum Mind you, Ernst, desire, willpower, which is, according
to this page disappears, so there is on the other side. The Culture
and the State - this one is not fraudulent - are antagonists: "Cultur-state"
is merely a modern idea.

One lives by others, which thrives on an expense of the other. All the
great periods of political decline Cultur-times: what is large in the
sense of the culture was apolitical, even anti-political. - Goethe went
to the heart of the phenomenon of Napoleon - it went with him two
"freedom war" ...

In the same moment when Germany as a great power heraufkommt wins
Culturmacht France as a change in importance.

Already, a lot of new seriousness, much new passion of the mind to Paris
übergesiedelt; the question of pessimism, for example, the question
of Wagner, almost all psychological and artistic questions are there
incomparably finer and more thoroughly considered than in Germany - the
Germans are themselves incapable to this kind of seriousness. -
In the history of European culture means Heraufkunft of "Empire"
in particular one: a change of focus.

You already know it everywhere: on the merits - and this remains
the culture - the Germans are no longer eligible.

One wonders: did you even just for Europe, a record mitzählenden
mind?

as your Goethe, Hegel yours, your Heinrich Heine, Schopenhauer mitzählte
yours?

- That there is not a single German philosopher giebt more, it is no
end of astonishment. - 5 The whole higher education in Germany is
the main thing missing: the purpose both as a means to an end.

That education, purpose of education itself - and not the "kingdom" -
that is to this end, the educator needs - and not the secondary school
teachers and university scholars - you forgot das ..

Thun north educators who themselves are educated, superior, noble
spirits, proved at every moment, by word and silence proved ripe,
sweet Culture has become - not the erudite Rüpel what high school
and university youth of today as a "higher Ammen" entgegenbringt .

The Erzieherfehlen, the exceptions to the exceptions settled,
the first condition of education: hence the decline of German
culture. - One of those exceptions is allerseltensten my venerable
friend Jacob Burckhardt in Basel: Basel owes him his first priority
of humanity. - What the "higher schools" in Germany thatsächlich
reach, this is a brutal taming, in order, with minimal loss of time,
a myriad of young men for the civil service usable Explorável to
make.

"Higher Education" and myriad - the odds from the outset. Each
higher education belongs only to the exception: privilegirt one
must be able to have a right to such a high privilege to have. All
great, all beautiful things can never be common property: pulchrum
est paucorum Hominum. - What caused the decline of German culture? The
fact that "higher education" no longer a privilege - the Demokratismus
the "general", the common gewordnen "education" ...

Not to be forgotten that military privileges to the multi-visit the high
schools, that is their downfall, formally decreed. - There is No one
more free now in Germany his children a noble education to give our
"higher" schools are allesammt to set up the ambiguous mediocrity,
with teachers, with curriculum, with teaching.

And everywhere there is an indecent haste, and as if something fails, if
the young man with 23 years of age are not yet "ready" is not yet white
answer to the "main question": what job?
Scarce knowing what I did, I went on with my formal accusation.

"Helene, Princess of Plassenburg, who is about to die, is also guilty of
loving me, Hugo Gottfried, son of Gottfried Gottfried, and of none other
crime. For this the Duke has decreed that she should die. It is her own
will that she should die by my hand."

Helene came forward and put her hand in mine in token that I spoke
truly, and there fell a great silence across the people. I saw the Lady
Ysolinde straining at her father's hand, like a dog in a leash when the
quarry rises.

Then my love kissed me once, just as though she had been saying
good-night in the Red Tower, simply and sweetly, like a child, and laid
her head down on the block as on the white pillow of her own bed.

"_God do so and more also to them on whose heads is the innocent blood of
my love and my wife_!"

The words burst from me rather than were uttered.

I raised the blade.

But ere the Red Axe could fall there arose a wild scream from the Duke's
enclosure. Some one cried, "Let me go! He has said it! He has said it! I
will not be silent any longer!" It was the Lady Ysolinde, who had broken
away from her father's hand.

"The girl is his wife," she went on. "He has claimed her--according to
the laws of the Wolfmark, that cannot be broken, he has called her his
wife. It is the Executioner's right. One woman he can claim as his
during his term of office--one only, and for his wife. Duke Otho, I call
upon you to allow it! Chancellor Texel, I call upon you to read the law!
I have it here in my hand. Head! Read! _I will save my soul! I will save
my soul_!"

And ere any one could stop her, the Lady Ysolinde, sobbing and laughing
both at once, had overleaped the light barrier, and was thrusting a
parchment with a seal into the hands of the Chancellor Michael Texel.

"She is mad. Let the justice of the realm be done!" cried again the voice
of Master Gerard.

And I think the Duke would have ordered it to be so. But there arose not
only a roar from the people, but, what Otho minded far more, an ominous
murmur among the nobles and gentlemen and from the ranks of men-at-arms.

"The law! The law! Read us the law!"

And even Otho dare not trifle with the will of the free companions of the
Mark. For in all the realm they were now his only supporters. Helene had
risen to her feet, and stood, pale of face but erect, resting, as was her
wont, one hand on my shoulder.

Then Michael Texel read the scroll aloud.

"It is the immemorial privilege of the Hereditary Executioner of the
Mark, being of the family of Gottfried, a privilege not to be abrogated
or alienated, that during the term of office of each, he may claim--not
as a boon, but as a right--the life of one man for a bond-servant, or the
life of one woman for a wife. Thus, by order of the States' Council, to
be the privilege of the Gottfrieds forever, it has been proclaimed!"

As Michael Texel went on, I saw the countenance of the Duke and the
lawyer change. I knew that salvation had come to us like lightning from a
clear sky, and I hastened to demand the right which was mine own.

So soon as he had finished I shouted with all my power:

"I CLAIM HELENE TO BE MY WIFE!"

Then went up such an acclaim from the people as never had been heard in
the ancient city. Even the gentlemen within the enclosure threw their
hats in the air. The soldiers put their helmets on the points of their
spears, and the captains waved their colors as at a victory. The thunder
of the cheering roused the very rooks and jackdaws from the towers of
Thorn and the bastions of the Wolfsberg till they went drifting in a
black cloud clamorously over the city.

Then Helene put her arms about my neck, and, upon the scaffold of death,
before all the people, we plighted our troth.

"The Bishop--the Bishop Peter!" cried the people.

And, leaping upon an officer's horse, a messenger rode post-haste to the
palace, the crowd making way for him. Duke Otho disappeared through a
private door, for the thing was over-strong even for him. He knew his
weakness too well to war with the immemorial privileges of the Wolfmark.

Rulers stronger than he had been broken in doing battle against ancient
rights and amenities. Besides, the nobility were afraid of their own
perquisites if one of so ancient a charter as that of the Hereditary
Justicer were refused.

Then from the palace came the Bishop, with due and decorous attendance of
crosier and solemn procession. And there, amid a turmoil of joy and the
ringing of every bell in the city, we, that had gone out to be together
in death, were joined in the bonds of youth and life.

But the Lady Ysolinde saw not--heard not. For they had carried her out
white and still from the place where she had fallen fainting at the foot
of the scaffold.


CHAPTER LIII

THE LUBBER FIEND'S RETURN


Al these things had overpast so quickly that when Helene and I found
ourselves alone in the Red Tower it seemed to both of us that we dreamed.

We sat in a kind of buzzing hush, on the low window-seat of the old room,
hand in hand. The shouts of the people came up to us from the square
beneath. We heard the tramp of the soldiers, who cheered us as they
passed to and fro. Being at last alone, we looked into each other's eyes,
and we could not believe in our own happiness.

"My wife!" I said, but in another fashion than I had said it on
the scaffold.

"My husband!" answered Helene, looking up at me.

But I think, for all that we realized of the truth, we might as well have
called each other King and Queen of Sheba.

We had been conducted with honor to the Red Tower. For since it was in
virtue of my hereditary office that I had obtained the great
deliverance, I dared for the present seek no other dwelling-place. For
Helene's sake, indeed, I should have felt safer elsewhere. Besides,
desperate and full of baffled hatred as I knew Duke Otho to be, I did
not believe that he would dare to molest us--for some time at least. The
rage of the people, their unbounded jubilation at the deliverance of
their Saint Helena from the jaws of death on the very scaffold, were too
recent to be trifled with by a prince sitting so insecure in his ducal
seat as Otho of the Wolfmark.

So here in the ancient Red Tower, I thought, we might at least be safe
enough till my good fellows of Plassenburg, with the Prince at their
head, should swarm hammering at the gates of Thorn.

To us, sitting thus hand in hand, there entered the Bishop Peter.

"Hail!" he said, blandly, and in his grandest manner, as we knelt for his
benediction; "hail, bride and bridegroom! God has been good to you this
day. Bishop Peter, the least of His servants, greets you very well. May
you have long life and prosperity unfailing."

I thanked him for his gracious words.

"The folk of the city are full of joy," he said. "I think they would
almost proclaim you Duke to-day."

"I desire no such perilous honor," I replied, smiling; "it were indeed an
ill-omen to have a Duke habited all in red."

"It is your marriage-dress, Hugo," said Helene; "I will not have you
speak against it."

Schopenhauer. Schopenhauer, the last German, the consideration (of a
European event like Goethe, like Hegel, like Heinrich Heine, and not
just a local, a "national"), is a psychologist for a case the first
order: namely, as a malignant ingenious attempt in favor of a
nihilistic Plot-Abwerthung of life is precisely the counter-instances,
the big Selbstbejahungen of the "will to life", the Exuberanz forms
of life into the field to lead.

He has, in turn, the artist, the heroism, the genius, the beauty,
the great compassion, the intelligence, the will to truth, the
tragedy as a consequence of phenomena of "negative" or the negation
of the-means "will" interpretirt -- the greatest psychological
counterfeiting, which it billed the Christenthum, in the history
giebt.

Zugesehn Specifically, he is merely the heir of the Christian interpretation:
only that he also rejected by the Christenthum, the big-Cultur
Thatsachen of humanity in a Christian, that is nihilistic sense of
well-known hot (- namely as a means to "salvation" than the
pre-"salvation", as Stimulantia the need for "salvation" ...) 22
I'll have a single case.

Schopenhauer speaks of beauty with a schwermüthigen Gluth, - last reason
why? Because he sees her as a bridge, where people continue to arrive,
or get thirsty, go to ... She is his salvation from the "willingness"
on moments - it attracts to salvation for ever ... In particular, he
praises it as Erlöserin of "hot spots" of the will "of sexuality - in
the beauty he sees the witness denies driving ... Strange saint!

Eventually someone contradicts you, I fear it is nature. Why giebt there
is beauty in sound, color, scent, rhythmic movement in nature? What
drives the beauty out - fortunately it also contradicts a philosopher. No
lesser authority than that of the divine Plato (- as Schopenhauer himself
calls him) holds a different set up: that all beauty to
procreation incentives - that this is the proprium of its effect
was of sensual's up in mental ... 23 Plato goes on.

He says with an innocence, to which one must be Greek and not "Christian"
that is no Platonic philosophy would be if it were not so beautiful
youths in Athens were: the sight of which it is only what the soul of
the philosopher into a erotic frenzy mode and let her no rest
until they are the seeds of all things high in such a beautiful earth
hinabgesenkt have. Also a strange saint! - You trust his ears do not
set themselves that Plato believed. At least one erräth that in Athens
philosophirt was different, especially in public. Nothing is less Greek
than the concept of a spider weaving Hermit, amor dei intellectualis
by type of Spinoza.

Philosophy of Plato by type would be more erotic than a competition,
definire, as a training and internalization of the old gym and agonal
conditions ...

What grew from this philosophy as Plato's erotic out?

A new art form of the Greek Agon, the dialectic. - I still remember, against
Schopenhauer and in honor of Plato's, that the whole higher culture
and literature of classical France on the ground of sexual interest
grew.

We must everywhere in her gallantry, the senses, the sex contest, the "wife"
look - you will never search in vain ... 24 L'art pour l'art. -
The fight against purpose in art is always the struggle against
moralisirende tendency in art, against its subordination to morality.

L'art pour l'art called "the devil take morality!" - But even this
hostility verräth About the violence of prejudice. If the purpose of the
Moralpredigens and improving human excluded from art, it follows
that far from being that art at all pointless, aimless, senseless,
short l'art pour l'art - a worm that eats into the tail bites - is.

"Dear no purpose as a moral purpose!" - So speaks the mere passion.
Psycholog One wonders however: what does all art? praises they not?
they are not glorified? she chooses not enough? she did not show? By
Allen strengthens or weakens them some estimates Werth ... Is this
just a side? a coincidence? Something in which the instinct of the artist
would not betheiligt? Or: it is not the prerequisite is that the
artists can be ...? If the lowest instincts of the art or not much
more to the meaning of art, life?

on a desirability of life? - Art is the great stimulant to life: how
could it be as futile as aimless, as l'art pour l'art understand? - A
question left behind: the art is also much ugly, hard, Questionable for
the appearance of life, - they do not seem so out of life entleiden?
Better make a good dinner to-day, that is my
advice to you. And I was bid to tell you that when all was ready for
their coming a fire is to be lighted on a high place, and then the Prince
will come to the gates."

I longed much to hear more of his adventures, but neither love nor money
would induce the thrice cautious Jan to set a foot within the precincts
of the Red Tower.

"I will light a bonfire when it is dark at the White Gate," he said, as
he retracted himself into the dusk. "I know what will make a rare blaze.
And the Prince cannot come too soon."

So indeed I thought also, as I looked out and saw the swarms of Duke
Otho's men in the court-yard and about the square, and reflected on our
helplessness here in the Red Tower within the defenced precincts of the
Wolfsberg.


CHAPTER LIV

THE CROWNING OF DUKE OTHO


But at long and last the most tardy-footed day comes to an end. And so,
just as fast as on any common day, the sun at last dropped to the edge
of the horizon and slowly sank, leaving a shallowing lake of orange
color behind.

The red roofs of Thorn grew gray, with purple veins of shadow in the
interstices where the streets ran, or rather burrowed. The nightly hum of
the city began. For, under the cruel rule of the wolves of the castle,
Thorn was ever busiest in the right. Indeed, the cheating of the guard
had become a business well understood of all the citizens, who had a
regular code of signals to warn each other of its approach.

Lights winked and kindled in the Wolfsberg over against me. I could see
the long array of lighted windows where the Duke would presently be
dining with Michael Texel, High Councillor Gerard von Sturm, and most of
his other intimates. There, beneath, were the stables of the Black
Riders, and before them men were constantly passing and repassing with
buckets and soldier gear.

I wondered if the Duke had news of the approach of the enemy.

So soon as I judged it safe I went to the top of the Red Tower and
unfolded the paper which Jan the Lubber Fiend had brought me. It was
without name and address or signature, and read as follows:

"To-night we shall be all in readiness. When the time is ripe let a fire
be lighted upon some conspicuous tower or high place of the city. Then we
will come."

Thereafter Helene, being lonely, climbed up and sat down beside me. I
handed her the paper.

"To-night will be a stormy one in Thorn and the Wolfsberg, little one,"
said I. "I fear you and I are not yet out of the wood."

The Little Playmate read the letter and gave it back to me. I tore it up,
and let the wind carry away the pieces one by one, small, like dust, so
that scarce one letter clave to another.

Her hand stole into mine.

"Ah," she sighed, "I am beginning to believe in it now! To-night may be
as dangerous as yesternight. But at least we are together, never to be
separated. And to us two that means all."

It was a strange marriage night, this of ours--thus to sit on the roof of
the Tower, under the iron beacon which had been placed there in my
grandfather's time, and listen to the hum and murmur of the city,
straining our eyes meanwhile through the darkness to catch the first
spear-glint from the army of the Prince.

"If they do not come by midnight, or if Jan Lubber Fiend does not light
his fire by the White Gate, we must e'en risk it and kindle this one here
on the Red Tower."

So the night passed on till it was about eleven, or it might be a quarter
of an hour later. Then all suddenly I saw a little crowd of men disengage
themselves from that private entrance of the Hall of Judgment by which,
on the day of the trial, Dessauer and I had entered. They made straight
towards the Red Tower at a quick run.

"Dear love," said I to Helene, "see yonder! Be ready to light the
beacon. I fear me much that our time has come to fight for life."

"Kiss me, then," she said, "and I will be ready for all that may be. At
worst, we can die together, true husband and true wife."

Presently there came a thundering knock at the door of the Red Tower. I
crouched on the stairs behind and listened intently. I could hear the
breathing of several men.

"He is surely within," said a voice. "The tower has been watched every
moment of the day."

Again came the loud knocking.

"Open--in the name of the Duke!" cried the voice. And the door was
rattled fiercely against its fastenings.

But I knew well enough that it could hold against any force of unassisted
men. For my father had ever taken a special pride in the bars and
defences of the single low door which led into his much-threatened
residence.

So I crouched in the dark of the stairs and listened with yet more
quivering intentness. Presently I could hear shoulders set to the
iron-studded surface, and a voice counted, softly, "One--two--three--and
a heave!" But though I discerned the laboring of the men straining
themselves with all their might, they might as well have pushed at the
rough-harled wall of the Wolfsberg.

"It will not do," I heard one say at last. "We cannot hope to succeed
thus. Bring the powder-bag and prepare the fuse."

So then I knew indeed that our time was at hand. I mounted the stairs
three at a time till I came to the room where Helene was waiting for me
in the dark.

"Fire the beacon on the Tower!" I bade her--"our enemies are upon us!"

"And after that may I come to you, Hugo?" she said.

"Nay, little one, it is better that you bide on the roof and see that
the beacon burns. You will find plenty of tow and oil in the niche by the
stair-head."

I could hear Helene give vent to a little sigh. But she obeyed instantly,
and her light feet went pattering up the stairs.

Then I waited for the explosion, which seemed as if it would never come.
The age überschleicht me imperceptibly among those around me and burgeoning
young aufsprossenden world. I find the longer the more, that all true human
happiness within the premises of the marital life. I will be ever more
human, and in precisely the proportions always happier and better.

Work is my desire, because I work for my children, and I am inwardly
convinced that my confidence in the peaceful hand to the fabric of
our Schickung weaves, neither me, nor will Meinigen cheat. "Wieland's
family circle was even more by a talented young man has been extended
to 1785 he was already a house-table, and comrades with him had. This
young man who, at the beginning of Wieland's tutor children, later
by family ties even closer to him was made, was Reinhold. "It is a
wonderful story, "Wieland said the May 15, 1785 at Gleim," how and
on what type of young man from the clouds, or rather from the arms
of God in any of my Schooß fallen and me and my wife has become so
popular is that we have him with unanimous applause of our head and
heart to our adopted son.

"From Vienna born and brought up in a Jesuitencollegium, Reinhold had
the monk living in the Barnabiter Order as little taste be interesting
to you that he secretly fled to Leipzig and from there went to Weimar,
where his his friends and v. Gemmingen Blumauer to Wieland had recommended.
The favorable reception, he found, combined with the enjoyment of Protestant
thought in an ancient land, put him in the joyous mood.

Even on his still uncertain future, he was able to reassure him Wieland
because of his character and his knowledge of estimated him a Antheil in
the Redaction of the "German Mercury" treat, and later through his
influence him a professorship of philosophy at the University of
Jena provided. yet fixed ward Reinhold Wieland's relationships to
the Chen family by his inclination to the poet's eldest daughter,
then sixteen year olds Sophie.

Reinhold got their hands on the altar, and continuously, even later,
when he was appointed to Kiel was followed, there was between him
and an unspoilt Freundschaftsverhältniß Wieland .

Wieland's father delights were increased when he was also its other
adult daughters were happily married. SCHORCHT The preacher and love
child, the latter known as the author of Herder's "palm leaves" and as
an assistant to Wieland's "Dschinnistan" had with Caroline and Amalie
Wieland verheirathet. Julie was the wife of the Chamber Raths stickleback
in Weimar has become, and Charlotte, the 1794 with the poet Baggesen
and his wife traveled to Switzerland was established there an
unexpected Ehebündniß.

Wieland wrote about the 17th
I waited, with the axe swinging loosely in one hand. A head bobbed up,
clad in a steel cap. Bat as the unseen feet propelled it upward the Red
Axe took little reck of the head. Betwixt the steel cap and the rim of
steel of the body armor appeared a gray line of leather jerkin and a
thinner white line of neck. The Red Axe swung. I bethought me that it was
a bad light to cut off calves' heads in. But the Red Axe made no mistake.
I had learned my trade. There was not even a groan--only a dull thud
some way underneath, such as you may hear when the children of the
quarter play football on the streets.

Then the foremost of the assailants were blocked by the fallen body, and
the feet of the men behind were stayed as the strange round plaything
rebounded among them.

"Back!" they cried, who were in front.

"Forward!" replied those who were hindmost and knew nothing.

"Come, men--on and finish it!" cried the voice which had commanded the
powder-flask and the tree--the voice I now knew to be that of Duke
Otho himself.

But the kick-ball argument of the Red Axe was mightily discouraging to
those immediately concerned, and as I felt the muscles of my right arm
and waited, I could hear Otho reasoning, threatening, coaxing, all in
vain. Then his tones mounted steadily into hot anger. He reviled his
followers for dogs, cowards, curs who had eaten his bread and now would
not rid him of his enemies.

"A thousand rix-dollars to the man who kills Hugo Gottfried!" he shouted.
"But, hear ye, save the girl alive!"

Yet not a man would attempt the first hazard of the stair.

"Knaves, traitors, curs!" he cried; "would that there were so much as a
single true man among you--but there is not one worth spitting upon!"

"Cur yourself!" growled a man, somewhere in the dark--"you have most at
stake in this. Try the stair yourself if you are so keen. We will follow
fast enough!"

"God strike me dead if I do not!" shouted Otho; "if it were only to shame
you cowards."

He paused to prepare his weapons.

"Follow me, men!" he shouted again; "all together!"

Again there was the clatter of iron-shod feet on the stone steps
beneath me.

My grip on the Red Axe became like iron, but my joints were loose and
swung easily as a flail swings on well-seasoned leathers.

"Welcome, Otho von Reuss!" I cried; "ye could not be crowned without the
death of Helene my wife! Come up hither and I will crown thee once for
all with the iron crown."

There, at last, was mine enemy at the turn of the stair, rushing
furiously upon me, sword in hand.

"Traitor!" he cried, and his sword was almost at my breast, so
fast he came.

"Murderer!" I shouted.

And almost ere I was aware the Red Axe flashed as it swept full circle
with scarce a pause, but it took the head of a man with it on its way.

Otho von Reuss was crowned. Helene, the Little Playmate, was avenged.


CHAPTER LV

THE LADY YSOLINDE SAVES HER SOUL


The Duke's body sank down upon that of the soldier, still further
blocking the passage. And as for his head, I know not where that went to.
But the rush of his followers was utterly checked by the barrier of dead.
With a wild cry, "The Duke is dead! Duke Otho is slain!" they rushed down
and out of the Red Tower, eager at once to escape unharmed, and to carry
to their companions in the Wolfsberg the startling news.

The literature-wife, unsatisfied, excited, desolate in the heart
and viscera, with painful curiosity any time on the imperative
hinhorchend, from the depths of his organization "aut liberi aut
libri" whispers: the literature-wife, educated enough, the voice
of nature to understand, even if they speak Latin and the other
vain and goose enough to secretly even French is to speak with "je
me verrai, je me lirai, depending m'extasierai et je dirai: Possible,
tant que eu j'aie d'esprit?

"28 The" impersonal "have their say. - "Nothing is easier than wise,
patient, superior to his.

We triefen from the oil of forbearance and compassion, we are in an
absurd manner, we forgive everything. Eben about something we should
keep strict; precisely should we, from time to time, a little emotional,
a little vice of Affect breed.

It may sour angehn us, and we laugh, we might have a point that we give.
But what is it we have no other kind left of self-overcoming: this is our
ascetics, our Büsserthum "... Personally - the virtue of the" impersonal
"... 29 From a Doctor promotion. - "What is the task of all higher
education?" - From the people to make a machine. - "What is the means to
do so?" - He must learn to be bored. - "How do you reach that?" - Through
the concept of duty. - "Who is his role model for this?"

- The Philologist: teaches the mug. - "Who is the perfect man?" -
The state officials. - "Which philosophy giebt the formula for the
highest state officials?"

- The Kant's: the state officials as a thing in itself as a judge
on the set of state officials as a phenomenon. - 30 The right to
stupidity. - The tired and slow athmende worker who looks gutmüthig
that things can go, how they go: this typical figure, the man now
in the age of work (and the "Empire"!

"Come, Helene," said I, and straightway fastened the rope to the iron bar
from which I had made so many descents to the pavement in the old days of
the White Wolves.

I let myself down, and there in the angle of the tower wall, I waited to
catch my wife. She delayed somewhat, and I could not think wherefore.

But at last she came, bringing the Red Axe in her hand.

"Go not weaponless!" she said, and I reached up and took from her hand
that which had already served me so well. The Red Axe had done its work
now, and she was grateful.

Then full lightly she descended to my side, and we went down the streets
of Thorn, which were filled with hurrying burgesses, all with weapons in
their hands, rushing to discover the cause of the clamor. I took Helene
hastily to the palace of the Bishop. And when I arrived there I saw Peter
himself with his head out of a window.

"I come to claim your protection for my wife!" I cried.

He came down immediately with an attendant.

"Fear not," I said, "you will never be called in question for this kindly
deed. The Duke Otho is slain, and the army of Prince Karl of Plassenburg
is already at the gates."

"The Duke is dead!" he gasped. "Who slew him?"

"Who but the Hereditary Justicer of the Wolfmark should slay a traitor?"
said I, smiling at his astonishment. And I held up the Red Axe, on which
there was now no crystal-clear rim of shining steel. All was crimson from
haft to edge--red as blood.

"Here, for an hour, Helene, little wife, I must leave you!" I said.
But now she sobbed and clung to me as she had not done before, even in
the dungeon.

"Stay with me," she said. "I need you, Hugo!"

I took her by the hand.

"Little one," I whispered, as tenderly as I could, "I would not be
worthily your husband if I went not to meet those who are fighting to
save us all this night. They have come from far to deliver us. I were
false and recreant if I went not to their assistance."

"I know--I know," she said. "Go!"

And with that she gave a hand to the good Bishop and went quietly within,
with no more than a smile over her shoulder, like a watery April
sun-glint.

Then I betook me with all speed to the Weiss Thor, where I judged the
chief struggle would take place. And as I came I heard the rattle of
shot and the jarring thunder of the forehammers. The soldiers without
shouted, and the men within more feebly replied.

I came in sight of the gate. There on my left hand was the house of
Master Gerard von Sturm.

A fire was still flickering upon the tower of it.

Without I could hear the cheering and clamoring of the besiegers. But the
gates remained obstinately shut. They were stronger than the Prince had
anticipated.

As _I_ stood, uncertain what to do, I saw a slim white figure, the figure
of a woman, flash across the open space towards the gate. The men who
defended the gate towers were all upon the top of the wall. Before any
could stop her she had thrown herself upon the wheel by which the bars
were unfastened, and with a few turns had drawn them as deftly as evil
Duke Casimir had been wont to remove the teeth of the rich Hebrew folk
when he wanted supplies.

The White Gate slowly opened upon creaking hinges. The faces of the
soldiers of Plassenburg were seen without, the weapons gleamed in their
hands as they came on shouting fiercely. The guards of the Duke rushed
forward to close the gate. But the woman had clamped the wheel and stood
holding the bar.

It was the Lady Ysolinde. She saw me as the soldiers of Duke Otho closed
threateningly upon her. She waved her hand to me almost happily.

"_I have saved my soul, Hugo Gottfried_!" she cried. "_I have saved
my soul_!"

At that moment a soldier of the Black Riders struck her fiercely with his
lance. I saw the white bosom of her dress redden as he plucked his weapon
to him again. I was in time to catch her in my arms as the soldiers of
Plassenburg, with Prince Karl at their head, came through the White Gate
like a spring-tide, carrying all before them.

The Prince stayed at his wife's side.

"Ysolinde!" cried the Prince, aghast, bending over her--not heeding, nor
indeed, as I think, even seeing me.

"Karl!" she said, looking gently at him, "try and forgive me all the
rest. But be glad that I opened the White Gate for yon. I, Ysolinde, your
wife, did it for your sake."

I put her into her husband's arms. I saw at a glance that there was no
hope. She could not live many moments with that lance-thrust through
her breast.

She looked at him again.

"Karl--say 'Ysolinde, I love you!'" she whispered, almost shyly.

He looked down, and a rush of unwonted tears came to the eyes of the
Prince of Plassenburg.

"Ysolinde, I love you!" he made answer, in a broken voice.

She smiled, and then looked over his shoulder up at me.

_"Hugo Gottfried, have I not saved my soul?"_ she cried.

And so passed.


CHAPTER LVI

HELENA, PRINCESS OF PLASSENBURG


There was, however, deadly work yet before the men of Plassenburg. We
found, indeed, that the townsfolk were with us almost to a man. Their
guild train-bands gathered and mustered at their halls. The guards at the
city gates fraternally turned their arms to the ground.

"The Prince will restore your ancient liberties!" I cried. And the people
shouted. "Prince Karl of Plassenburg and our ancient liberties!"

Then we made our way up the street by different routes to the Wolfsberg.
There was little fighting till we arrived under those vast and gloomy
walls. The Black Riders had disappeared within. Those worst tools of grim
tyranny had early withdrawn themselves, knowing that small mercy would be
shown them by the people if once the Wolfsberg were taken. Meanwhile, the
almost incomprehensible injustice of my contemporaries, little influence
on my happiness, and it was no compliment, but truly warm feeling when I
said to my muse: You make the happiness of my life, And nobody
listens to you, so you sing to me alone. hab way I have always been
lucky enough to his Horace praised, by a small number of such people
to be loved, each of which is worth an audience, and this has always
been enough for my heart.

I've always been the art of the Muses for their own sake loved, and
they with love and love-driven. The loudest Zujauchzen all readers in the
world would see me for the smallest mistakes that I could avoid, and could
not be avoided, not harmless, if it like nobody had seen, as I do.

"To be consoled Wieland, and left in the garden cottage, which he
in his "Osmantinum", as he usually gave his residence, had
built the kind of hope, "yet some blissful hours zuzubringen and
even some of secret visit to his muse." Among the plans that he in
his rural retreat designed and Theil said, were particularly
Uebersetzungen from Greek, from Xenophon, Euripides, and Aristophanes,
which he called an "Attic museum" wanted to publish.

Skilled Gehülfe he had with this company to Jacobs and Hottinger. Den
Last, he had during his stay in Switzerland, learned, and appreciated
it very much.

"I know," said Wieland, "not quite so purely on the Socratic model of
educated minds than Hottinger." Among the translations of the old
Classics, which he for the "Attic Museum undertook, captivated him vorzüglich
the" Ion "of Euripides. With the election this tragedy Wieland joined
a secondary intention.

With a flowing, the original faithfully reproduced Uebersetzung he
educated the audience of assessments, the same with that of AW
Schlegel sealed Trauerspiel "ion" to compare, then Weimarische on
stage and often had been discussed.

So you could, said Wieland, with own eyes see the same substance as
both artist and edit their work against each other behave. Such a
comparison However, "with a pure sense of the true, beautiful and
Geziemende employed," may be important for friends and disciples
of art not as entertaining and instructive Seyn. Two own
factories, "Agathodämon" and "Solon", which, as he Göschen wrote,
"nor as embryos were in his head," Wieland gave the plan to the
last-mentioned works again. A great effect, he promised from the
many portrayals, which he in the "letters Aristipp's and his
contemporaries," wanted to create.

This plant, from which he drafted a detailed plan should be one of his
writings are extensive.

During the preparation it still employed many other literary works. To
his friend and publisher Göschen in Leipzig, he wrote the December
19, 1797: "It is high time that I am once again a small sign of life
there. That in which the intellectual, or, perhaps correctly, said
what the literary life, as I live, since the season has been
unfriendly, fully.

I'm rarely in my museum, from the house did not work from morning until
night, days and weeks to find incomprehensible short and quick, and I
demungeachtet since 23 November one of the hardest literary
Abentheuer, a metrical translation of the clouds of Aristophanes
happy, as I hope at least to date.

"On February 18, 1798 Wieland reported that he had some political dialogues
content, under the title" Conversations with four eyes " have begun
to draw, and even more will follow up until he "had everything
from the heart of what it times in these colorful words for the
right time to think."

So the Prince Karl gave back to Thorn its liberties, as he had promised.
But the regality of the Dukedom he kept for himself, and he took the
Wolfmark and made it part of his dominions, till, as he had formerly
undertaken, the broom-bush kept the cow throughout the length and breadth
of Plassenburg and the Mark.

It was a noble home-coming when we returned to Plassenburg--victorious
and famous; but also there was mourning deep and solemn for the Princess
Ysolinde, who by her sacrifice had wrought such great things for the arms
of Plassenburg, and had died in the moment of victory.

Then, when after the stately funeral of the dead Princess we returned
back to the palace, it was the Prince's pleasure that Helene and myself
should ride on either hand of him through the city.

And when we were announced in the court, and the councillors of state
stood about, my wife was named by her true name, "Helena, Princess of
Plassenburg!"

Whereat the courtiers opened their mouths and widened their
eyes--thinking, perhaps, that that ancient wizard, Chancellor Leopold von
Dessauer had suddenly gone mad.

But when the representatives of the cities of the Princedom, and the
delegates from Thorn and the Mark, had been received with due honor, the
Prince bade his Chancellor recount all he had learned from my father, and
all that he had discovered in the archives of Plassenburg.

Then, when Dessauer had finished, Karl the Prince arose.

"I am," he said, "a plain, brusque man. And speech was never my
stronghold. But this I say. When Karl the Miller's Son goes the way of
King's son and beggar's son, it is his will that Helene, legitimate
Princess of Plassenburg, shall reign over you. And also that her husband,
Hugo, who, as you know, won her from dreadful death, shall stand by her
right hand."

Then the nobles and great lords, fearing the Prince, and perhaps also
envying a little the man who was the Prince's general of his armies,
shouted amain:

"We swear to obey the Princess Helena!"

Whereat uprose the Little Playmate, very princess-like and full of sweet
regal dignity.

"I thank you, noble Prince," she said. "I am glad that I can claim so
honorable a name and lineage; but I had rather be no Princess, nor
anything else than that which my husband hath made me--the wife of the
captain-general of the armies of Karl, the only true and noble Prince of
Plassenburg!"

Then the Prince rose and clasped her in his arms, kissing her fondly on
both cheeks.

"Fear not," he said, "dear and loyal lady. If you live to be the
Princess, your goodman shall be the Prince. Never shall the gray mare
flaunt it first, in Plassenburg!"

There are rough, but witz and meaningful rich cartridge, which all allow
nothing to lose do not know what Erröthen, and with whom one would be
dirty, even if you win more than they receive, which is almost
impossible because, even beaten and niedergeworfen, Aufstehn again,
and it only would make the more worse.

Can you's but do not let the Muthwilligen issued by a new in Germany = =
genre, namely French persiflage = =, to make their luck hope
something must, then I implore you to all the gods, leave at least,
Goethe and Schiller from the game, about 'if only my love, and to avoid
all suspicion, as if I have any direct or indirect Antheil in the
matter would have.

I stand with these two matadors in a good, with Goethe in an almost
friendly conditions such as I imagine, at least before the world,
because = en occultis non judicat praetor =. But the men are fragile
and a little suspicious.

I can not just themselves, but also my friends are, my love, not enough
careful that I do with them will not compromittirt.

"From the mischief was in the German literature Wieland feared, according
to a letter dated 15 . February 1801, a threefold significant damage.

I must go to her, my lords; I think she waits for me. The Prince Hugo
will take my place at the Council."

And the old man took a step from the high seat. But at the foot of the
throne he stumbled and fell into my arms.

He said but one word after that, with his eyes still fixed on the
bolted door.

"_Ysolinde_!"

And so the Prince Karl and his wife were united at last.

Since then we have lived long, the Little Playmate and I; but never have
we been other than comrades and friends--lovers also, which is the best
of all. And so (an the good God please) we shall abide till the end
comes. And in the gloaming we two also shall see the beckoning finger
from beyond the bolted door and turn our feet homeward, passing the
bourne of the new life hand in hand--and undismayed.



THE END