Team


VENETIA

BY THE EARL OF BEACONSFIELD, K.G.

1905


  'Is thy face like thy mother's, my fair child?'

  'The child of love, though born in bitterness
  And nurtured in convulsion.'


TO

LORD LYNDHURST.

In happier hours, when I first mentioned to you the idea of this Work,
it was my intention, while inscribing it with your name, to have
entered into some details as to the principles which had guided me in
its composition, and the feelings with which I had attempted to shadow
forth, though as 'in in a glass darkly,' two of the most renowned and
refined spirits that have adorned these our latter days. But now I
will only express a hope that the time may come when, in these pages,
you may find some relaxation from the cares, and some distraction
from the sorrows, of existence, and that you will then receive this
dedication as a record of my respect and my affection.

This Work was first published in the year 1837.


BOOK I.


CHAPTER I.


Some ten years before the revolt of our American colonies, there was
situate in one of our midland counties, on the borders of an extensive
forest, an ancient hall that belonged to the Herberts, but which,
though ever well preserved, had not until that period been visited by
any member of the family, since the exile of the Stuarts. It was an
edifice of considerable size, built of grey stone, much covered with
ivy, and placed upon the last gentle elevation of a long ridge of
hills, in the centre of a crescent of woods, that far overtopped its
clusters of tall chimneys and turreted gables. Although the principal
chambers were on the first story, you could nevertheless step forth
from their windows on a broad terrace, whence you descended into the
gardens by a double flight of stone steps, exactly in the middle
of its length. These gardens were of some extent, and filled with
evergreen shrubberies of remarkable overgrowth, while occasionally
turfy vistas, cut in the distant woods, came sloping down to the
south, as if they opened to receive the sunbeam that greeted the
genial aspect of the mansion, The ground-floor was principally
occupied by the hall itself, which was of great dimensions, hung round
with many a family portrait and rural picture, furnished with long
oaken seats covered with scarlet cushions, and ornamented with a
parti-coloured floor of alternate diamonds of black and white marble.
From the centre of the roof of the mansion, which was always covered
with pigeons, rose the clock-tower of the chapel, surmounted by a
vane; and before the mansion itself was a large plot of grass, with a
fountain in the centre, surrounded by a hedge of honeysuckle.

This plot of grass was separated from an extensive park, that opened
in front of the hall, by tall iron gates, on each of the pillars of
which was a lion rampant supporting the escutcheon of the family. The
deer wandered in this enclosed and well-wooded demesne, and about a
mile from the mansion, in a direct line with the iron gates, was an
old-fashioned lodge, which marked the limit of the park, and from
which you emerged into a fine avenue of limes bounded on both sides
by fields. At the termination of this avenue was a strong but simple
gate, and a woodman's cottage; and then spread before you a vast
landscape of open, wild lands, which seemed on one side interminable,
while on the other the eye rested on the dark heights of the
neighbouring forest.

This picturesque and secluded abode was the residence of Lady Annabel
Herbert and her daughter, the young and beautiful Venetia, a child, at
the time when our history commences, of very tender age. Now what did
she say?"
"Well, sah, if yo' must know, she said as how she was gwine to leave
Massah Jack half de prop'ty."
St. John leaped back in amazement.

"You don't mean that, Ben!" he gasped.

"Yes, sah, I does mean it."
"Half the property?"
"Yes, sah."
"He doesn't deserve it!"
At this the old negro shrugged his huge shoulders.

"Rackon de missus knows what she wants to do."
"But it is not right--to give the boy half the estate. I suppose
the other half will go to Marion."
"Yes, sah."
The young man's face grew pale, and he began to pace the floor
again.

"She never mentioned me in connection with this, did she?"
"No, sah."
"And yet I am her nephew."
"Rackon she dun thought yo' was rich enough, Massah St. John."
"Perhaps I am, Ben. But it is strange that my own flesh and blood should
forget me, to take up with a nobody.

Did my aunt ever speak of the particulars of what she intended to
do?"
"No, sah."
"Humph! It's strange. I must look into this." And a few minutes later
St. John Ruthven was off on horseback, in a frame of mind far from
pleasant.

CHAPTER VI.

MRS. RUTHVEN'S STORY.

"I am so glad to see you both back, safe and sound!"

It was Mrs. Alice Ruthven who spoke, as she embraced first her daughter
and then Jack.

"And we are glad enough to get back, mother," answered Marion.

"I was so frightened, even after Old Ben went after you. We watched
the lightning, and when it struck the wreck----" Mrs. Ruthven stopped
speaking and gave a shiver.

"We weren't in such very great danger," answered Jack.

Then he looked at the lady curiously.

"What is it, Jack? You have something on your mind," she said quickly.

The youth looked at Marian, who turned red.

"I--I--that is, mother, Jack knows the truth," faltered the girl.

"The truth?"

repeated Mrs. Ruthven slowly.

"Yes, Marion has told me the truth," said Jack, in as steady a voice
as he could command.

"And so I--I--am not your son."

He could scarcely speak the words.

"Oh, Jack!" The lady caught him in her arms. "So you know the truth
at last?" She kissed him.

"But you are my son, just as if you were my own flesh and blood.
You are not angry at me for keeping this a secret so long?

I did it because I did not wish to hurt your feelings."

"No, I am not angry at you, Mrs.

Ruth----"

"Call me mother, Jack."
"I am not angry, mother. You have been very kind to me. But it is
so strange!

I can't understand it all," and he heaved a deep sigh.

"You have been a son to me in the past, Jack; I wish you to continue
to be one."
"But I have no real claim upon you."
"Yes, you have, for my late husband and myself adopted you."
"Marion told me that you never heard one word regarding my past."
"She told the truth. We tried our best, but every effort ended in
failure. Your mother called you Jack ere she died, and that was
all."

"What of our clothing? Was none of it marked, or had she nothing
in her pocket?"
"No, the clothing was not marked, and she had nothing in her pocket
but a lace handkerchief, also unmarked. That handkerchief I have
kept, with the clothing. And I have also kept a ring she wore upon one
of her fingers."
"Was that marked?"
"It had been, but it was so worn that we could not make out the marking,
nor could the two jewelers by whom we had the ring inspected."
"I would like to see the ring."
"I will get it," returned Mrs. Ruthven, and left the room.

Soon she came back with a small jewel casket, from which she took a
ring and a very dainty lace handkerchief.

"Here is the ring," she said, as she passed it over to Jack.

"It looks like a wedding ring," said the youth, as he gazed at the circlet
of gold.

"I believe it is a wedding ring."
Jack looked inside and saw some markings, but all were so faint that
it was impossible to make out more than the figures 1 and 8.

"Those figures stand for eighteen hundred and something, I imagine,"
said Mrs. Ruthven. "They must give the year when your mother was
married."
"I suppose you are right."

"The ring belongs to you, Jack. I would advise you to be careful of
it."
"If you please, I would like to have you keep it for the present."

"I will do that willingly."
The handkerchief was next examined. But it seemed to be without
markings of any kind, and was soon returned to the jewel case along
with the ring.

"Now tell me how Marion came to tell you of the past," said Mrs.
Ruthven, after putting the jewel case away.

"I made her tell me the truth," said Jack.

"But how did you suspect this at first?"
"Because of something St. John said to Darcy Gilbert."
"What did he say?"
"Oh, it doesn't matter much--now, mother. He told Darcy I wasn't your
son."
"What else did he say?"
"Oh, I think I had better not say."
"But you must tell me, Jack; I insist upon knowing."
"He told Darcy that I was a nobody, and that I would have to go
away some day."

At these words Mrs. Ruthven's face flushed angrily.

"St. John is taking too much upon his shoulders," she cried. "This is
no business of his."
"I may be a nobody, but, but"--Jack stammered--"if he says anything
to me, I am afraid there will be a row."

"He shall not say anything to you. I will speak to him about this.
Leave it all to me."
"But he shall not insult me," said Jack sturdily.

Marion had left the apartment, to change her clothing, so she did not
hear what was said about St. John. A few words more on the subject
passed between the lady of the plantation and the youth, and then the
talk shifted back to Jack's past.

"Some day I am going to find out who I am." said the boy.

"There must be some way to do this."
"Are you then so anxious to leave me, Jack?" asked Mrs.

Ruthven, and the tears sprang into her eyes.

"No, no, mother; I will not leave you so long as you wish me to
stay!"

he exclaimed. "It isn't that. But this mystery of the past must be
solved."
"Well, I will help you all I can.

But do not hope for too much, my boy, or you may be disappointed,"
and then she embraced him again.

Running up to his bedroom, Jack quickly changed the suit which had
been soaked the night before for a better one, and then came below
again.

He hardly knew what to do with himself. The news had set his head in
a whirl. At last he decided to go out riding on a pony Mrs. Ruthven
had given him a few weeks before.

The pony was soon saddled by one of the stable hands, and Jack set off
on a level road running between the two Ruthven plantations.

At first he thought to ask Marion to accompany him, but then decided
that he was in no humor to have anybody along.

"I must think this out by myself," was the way he reasoned, and set off
at a brisk pace under the wide-spreading trees.

He was less than quarter of a mile away from home when he came face
to face with St. John, who was returning from his visit to Old
Ben's boathouse.

As the two riders approached each other, the young man glared darkly at
our hero.

"Hullo, where are you bound?" he demanded sharply.

"I don't think that is any of your business, St. John," replied Jack,
who was just then in no humor to be polite.

"Humph! you needn't get on your high horse about it!"

"I am not on a high horse, only on a small pony."
"Don't joke me, Jack--I don't like it."
"As you please, St. John."
"What's got into you this morning?" demanded the young man curiously.

"Well, if you want to know, I don't like the way you have been
talking about me."

"Oho! so that is how the wind blows."
"You have taken the pains to call me a nobody," went on Jack hotly.

"I told the truth, didn't I?"
"I consider myself just as good as you, St. John Ruthven."
"Do you indeed!" sneered the spendthrift.

"I do indeed, and in the future I will thank you to be more careful of
what you say about me."
"I have a right to tell the truth to anybody I please."
"I don't deny that. But I consider my blood just as good as
yours."
"Do you? I don't."
"Your opinion isn't worth anything to me."
"Humph! still riding a high horse, I see. Let me tell you, you are
not half as good as a Ruthven, and never will be.

How my aunt could take you in is a mystery to me."

"She is not as hard-hearted as you are."

"She is very foolish."
"She is my foster mother, and I'll thank you to speak respectfully
of her," cried Jack, his eyes flashing.

"Of course you'll stick by her--as long as she'll let you. You
have a nice ax to grind."

"I don't understand your last words."
"She owns considerable property, and you will try to get a big share
of it for yourself, when she dies."

"I have never given her property a thought. I want only what is
rightfully coming to me."
"There is nothing coming to you by right. The property ought to go to
Marion and the other Ruthvens."
"By other Ruthvens I suppose you mean yourself."

"I am one of them."

"Are you so anxious to get hold of my aunt's plantation?"
"I don't want to see my aunt waste it on such a low upstart as you!"
Jack's eyes flashed fire, and riding close to St. John he held up his
little riding whip.

"You shan't call me an upstart!" he ejaculated. "Take it back, or
I'll hit you with this!"
"You won't dare to touch me!" howled St. John in a rage. "You are
an upstart, and worse, to my way of thinking."
Scarcely had the words left his lips when Jack brought down the riding
whip across the young man's shoulders and neck, leaving a livid red
mark behind.

"Oh!" howled the spendthrift, and gave a jerk backward on the
reins, which brought his horse up on his hind legs. "How dare you!
I'll--I'll kill you for that!"
"Do you take it back or not?" went on Jack, raising the whip again.

Instead of replying St. John reached over to hit the youth with his own
whip. But Jack dodged, and then struck out a second time. The blow
landed upon St. John's hand, and he jerked back quickly. The movement
scared the horse, and the animal plunged so violently that the rider
was thrown from the saddle into some nearby bushes.

Then the horse galloped away, leaving St. John to his fate.

CHAPTER VII.

A SETBACK FOR ST. JOHN.

"Now see what you have done!" roared St. John, as soon as he could
scramble from the bushes.

His face was scratched in several places and his coat was torn
at one elbow.

"It was your fault as much as mine," retorted Jack.

"No such thing. You had no right to pitch into me."
"And you had no right to call me names."
"My horse has run away," stormed the young man.

"So I see."
"If he is lost or hurt you'll be responsible."
"He is running toward home. I reckon he'll be all right."
"What am I to do?"
"That's your lookout."
"Get down and let me ride your pony home."
"I will do no such thing!" cried Jack. The little steed was very dear
to him.

"Do you expect me to walk?"
"You can suit yourself about that, St.

John. Certainly I shan't carry you," and Jack began to move
off.

"Stop! don't leave me like this."
"You are not much hurt. Do you want to continue the fight?"
"I don't calculate to fight a mere boy like you. Some day I'll
give you a good dressing down for your impudence."
"All right; when that time comes, I'll be ready for you," returned Jack
coolly, and without further words he rode away.

Standing in the middle of the road, St. John Ruthven shook his fist
after the youth.

"I hate you!" he muttered fiercely. "And I'll not allow you to come
between me and my aunt's property, remember that!" But the
words did not reach Jack, nor were they intended for his ears.

There was a spring of water not far away, and going to this St. John
washed his face and his hands. Then he combed his hair with a
pocket-comb he carried, and brushed his clothing as best he could.
He was more hurt mentally than physically, and inwardly boiled to get
even with our hero.

Left to himself, he hardly knew what to do. He was satisfied that his
horse would go home as Jack had said, but he was in no humor to follow
the animal.

"I've a good mind to call on Aunt Alice and tell her what a viper he
is," he said to himself. "Perhaps I can get her to think less of him
than she does--and that will be something gained."
He walked slowly toward the plantation. When he came within sight of the
garden he saw Marion in a summerhouse, arranging a bouquet of
flowers which she had just cut.

The sight of his cousin put his heart in a flutter and made him
think of the talk he had had with his mother.

Why should he not propose to her at once? The sooner the better,
to his way of thinking. That Marion might refuse him hardly entered
his head. Was he not the best "catch" in that neighborhood?

"How do you do, Marion?" he said, as he strode up to the
summerhouse.

"Why, St. John, is that you?" returned the girl. "I did not see you
riding up."
"I came on foot," he went on, as he came in and threw himself on a
bench. "It's warm, too."
"It is warm. Shall I send for some refreshments?"
"No, don't bother just now, Marion. I came over to see you alone."

"Alone?" she said in some surprise.

"Yes, alone, Marion. I have something very important to say to you."

She did not answer, but turned away to fix the bouquet.

"Can you guess what I wish to say?" he went on awkwardly.
"I haven't the remotest idea, Cousin St. John."
"I want to tell you how much I love you, Cousin Marion."
"Oh!"
"Don't think that I speak from sudden impulse. I have loved you for
years, but I wished to wait until you were old enough to listen to
me."
"And you think I am old enough now?" she said, with a faint
smile.
"Mamma thinks me quite a girl still."
"You are old enough to marry, if you wish, Marion."
"Marry?" She laughed outright. "Oh, St. John, don't say that. Why,
I don't intend to marry in a long, long time--if at all."
His face fell, and he bit his lip. Certainly this was not the answer
he had expected.
"But I want you!" he burst out, still more awkwardly. "I want to--to
protect you from--er--from Jack." 
"Protect me from Jack?"
"Yes, Marion. You know what he is, a mere nobody."
"Jack is my brother." 
"He is not, and you know it."
"He is the same as if he were my brother, St. John."
"Again I say he is not. He is a mere upstart, and he will prove a
snake in the grass unless you watch him. Your mother made a big
mistake when she adopted him."
"There may be two opinions upon that point."
"He knows your mother is rich. Mark my word, he will do all he can,
sooner or later, to get her property away from her."
"I will not believe evil of Jack."
"You evidently think more of him than you do of me!" sneered the
spendthrift, seeing that he was making no headway in his suit.
"I do not deny that I think the world and all of Jack. He is my
brother in heart, if not in blood--and I will thank you to remember
that after this," went on Marion in a decided tone.
"You will learn of your mistake some time--perhaps when it is too
late."
"Jack is true to the core, and as brave as he is true. Why, he would
go to the war if mamma would give her consent."
At this St. John Ruthven winced.
"Well--er--I would go myself if my mother did not need me at home,"
he stammered. "She must have somebody to look after the plantation.
We can't trust the niggers."
"Many men have gone to the front and allowed their plantations to
take care of themselves. They place the honor of their glorious
country over everything else."
"Well, my mother will not allow me to go--she has positively forbidden
it," insisted St. John, anxious to clear his character.
This statement was untrue; he had never spoken to his mother on the
subject, thinking she might urge him to go to the front. His plea
that he must look after the plantation was entirely of his own
making.
"Supposing we should lose in this struggle--what will become of
your plantation then?" 
At this St. John grew pale.
"I--I hardly think we will lose," he stammered. "We have plenty of
soldiers."
"But not as many as the North has. General Lee could use fifty
thousand more men, if he could get them."
"Well, I shall go to the front when I am actually needed, Marion;
you can take my word on that. But won't you listen to what I have
told you about my feeling for you?"
"No, St. John; I am too young to fall in love with anybody. I shall
at least wait until this cruel war is over."
"But I can hope?"
She shook her head. Then she picked up her bouquet.
"Will you come up to the house with me?"
"Not now, Marion. Give my respects to my aunt and tell her I will
call in a day or two again. And, by the way, Marion, don't let her
think hard of me because of Jack. I desire only to see to it that
the boy does not do you mischief."
"As I said before, I will listen to nothing against dear Jack, so
there!" cried Marion, and stamping her foot, she hurried toward the
house.
St. John Ruthven watched her out of sight, then turned and stalked
off toward the roadway leading to his home.
"She evidently does not love me as I thought," he muttered to
himself.
"And I made a mess of it by speaking ill of Jack. Confound the
luck!
What had I best do now? I wish I could get that boy out of the way
altogether, I really do." 

CHAPTER VIII.
THE HOME GUARDS OF OLDVILLE.
The week to follow the events recorded in the last chapter was a
trying one for the inhabitants of Oldville, as the district around
the Ruthvens' plantation was called.
The army of the North had pressed the army of the South back steadily
day after day, until the Confederates were encamped less than four
miles away from Jack's home. For two days the cannon-firing could
be distinctly heard, and the women folks were filled with dread,
thinking the invaders from the North were about to swoop down upon
their homes and pillage them.
"Oh, Jack! do you think they will come here?" was the question
Marion asked at least a dozen times.
"They had better not," was the sturdy reply. "If they do, they will
find that even a boy can fight."
"But you could do nothing against an army, Jack."
"Perhaps not. But I'll do what I can to protect you and mother."

"Old Ben told me that you and Darcy Gilbert were organizing a Home
Guard."
"Yes; we have organized a company of boys. We have twenty-three
members, and I am the captain," answered Jack, with just a bit of
pride in his tones.
"Then you are Captain Jack!" exclaimed Marion. "Let me congratulate
you, captain. But have you any weapons?"
"Yes. I have an old sword and also a pistol, and all of the others
have pistols or guns. I think, if we were put to it, we might do
our enemy some damage."
"No doubt, since I know you and Darcy can shoot pretty straight.
You ought to ask St. John to join the command."
"Not much, Marion! Don't you know that St. John is a coward at
heart, even if he is a man?"
"Yes, I know it. One of the colored help on his plantation told Old
Ben that the cannon-firing so close at hand made him so uneasy he
couldn't eat or sleep."
"Is it possible! Now the cannon-firing simply makes me crazy to be
at the front, to see what is going on, and to take part."
"Then you must be a born soldier, Jack." Marion heaved a sigh. "Oh,
I wish this war was over! Why must the men of the South and the
North kill each other?"
"The world has always had wars and always will, I reckon. Do you
want to come to town and see us drill?" 
"Will it be safe?"
"I think so, Marion. I don't believe the enemy are coming here very
soon."
Soon after this Jack and Marion were on their way to Oldville, a
sleepy town containing two general stores, a tavern, and a blacksmith
shop.
In front of the tavern was a large green, and here a number of boys
were playing various games.
"Hurrah, here comes Captain Jack!" was the cry, when our hero
appeared.
"Are we to drill to-day?" questioned Darcy Gilbert, as he ran up
and nodded to Marion.
"If you will," said Jack. His new honors had not made him in the
least dictatorial.

"All right," returned Darcy.
He was first lieutenant of the company, which had styled itself the
Oldville Home Guard, and he quickly summoned the young soldiers
together.
All had uniforms, made of regular home suits with stripes of white
sewed down the trouser-legs and around the coat-sleeves. The boys
with pistols were placed in the front rank, those with guns in the
second rank. One lad had a drum and another a fife.
"Company, attention!" ordered Jack, coming to the front with drawn
sword, and the boys drew up in straight rows across the green. The
drum rattled, and presently quite a crowd of old men, women, and
children collected to see the drill.
"Carry--arms!" went on Jack, and the guns came to a carry, and
likewise the pistols. "Present--arms! Shoulder--arms!She was indeed her own
chaplain, herself performing each day such parts of our morning and
evening service whose celebration becomes a laic, and reading portions
from the writings of those eminent divines who, from the Restoration
to the conclusion of the last reign, have so eminently distinguished
the communion of our national Church.

Willich, the able Actuary of the University Life Assurance Society,
entitled _Popular Tables arranged in a new Form, giving Information
at Sight for ascertaining, according to the Carlisle Table of
Mortality, the Value of Lifehold, Leasehold, and Church Property,
Renewal Fines, &c., the Public Funds, Annual Average Price and
Interest on Consols from 1731 to 1851; also various interesting and
useful Tables, equally adapted to the Office and the Library Table_.
Ample as is this title-page, it really gives but an imperfect notion
of the varied contents of this useful library and writing-desk
companion.

For instance, Table VIII. of the Miscellaneous Tables gives the average
price of Consols, with the average rate of interest, from 1731
to 1851; but this not only shows when Consols were highest and when
lowest, but also what Administration was then in power, and the chief
events of each year. We give this as one instance of the vast
amount of curious information here combined; and we would point out
to historical and geographical students the notices of Chinese
Chronology in the preface, and the Tables of Ancient and Modern Itinerary
Measures, as parts of the work especially deserving of their
attention. In short, Mr. Willich's _Popular Tables_ form one of those
useful volumes in which masses of scattered information are concentrated
in such a way as to render the book indispensable to all who have
once tested its utility.

  _Mormonism, its History, Doctrines, and Practices_, by the Rev.

W. Sparrow Simpson, is a small pamphlet containing the substance of
two lectures on this pestilent heresy, delivered by the author
before the Kennington Branch of the Church of England Young Men's
Society, and is worth the attention of those who wish to know
something of this now wide-spread mania.

The accustomed
walk on the terrace was completed, and dinner was announced. This meal
was always celebrated at Cherbury, where new fashions stole down with
a lingering pace, in the great hall itself. I designed to have troubled
the reader with no farther discourses of Pastorals, but being informed
that I am taxed of partiality, in mentioning an author, whose Eclogues
are published in the same volume with Mr. Philips's, I spirit of
criticism, and without apprehensions of offending that gentleman,
whose character it is, that he takes the greatest care of his works
before they are published, and has the least concern for them afterwards.
I have laid it down as the first rule of, that its idea should be
taken the manners of the Golden Age, and the moral formed upon the
representation of innocence;'tis therefore plain, that any deviations
from that, as to make him waste away, as the image gradually consumed.
John Hume, her, Thomas Southwell, a canon of companions St.
Stephen's Westminster, Roger Bolingbroke, a clergyman highly esteemed,
and eminent for his uncommon learning, and merit, and perhaps on that
account personated by the inimitable Mrs. Oldfield. Nor was Mrs.
Porter beheld in Hermione without admiration. The Distress'd Mother
is so often acted, and so' frequently read, we shall not trouble the
reader with giving any farther thousand temples rise, Gayly false,
in gentle smiles design, degrade a poem from being true Pastoral.
So easy as Pastoral writing may seem( in the simplicity we have
described it) yet it requires great reading, both of the ancients
and moderns, to be a master of! hear me now. Descend, thou bright
immortal guest! In all thy radiant charms confess'd. 3. Thou once
did leave almighty Jove, And all the golden, and often turn'd her
eye. The other modern( who the must be confess'd a knack at
versifying) has it as follows, STREPHON. Me gentle Delia beckons from
the, Thus, hid in shades, eludes her eager swain; it. Mr. Philips hath
given us manifest proofs of his knowledge of books; it must be denying
confessed his competitor has imitated single thoughts of antients well
them here and there without that order and method Mr. Philips observes,
whose whole third pastoral, is an instance how well he studied the
fifth of, of Virgil, and how judiciously he reduced Virgil's thoughts
to the standard of pastoral; and his contention of Colin Clout,
and the Nightingale, shews with what exactness he hath imitated
Strada.

When I remarked it as principal fault to introduce fruits, and
flowers of a foreign growth in descriptions, where the scene lies
in our country, I did not design that observation should extend also
to animals, or the sensitive life this pedantry, who in his Pastoral
of November, mentions the mournful song of the Nightingale. Sad
Philomel, her song in tears doth sleep.

And Mr. Come Rosalind, O come; here shady bowers. n't Here are cool
fountains, and here springing flowers. Come Rosalind; here ever let
us stay And sweetly waste live-long time away. Our other pastoral
writer in expressing the same thought, deviates into downright poetry.
STREPHON. spring the fields, in autumn hills I love, At Delia
always; forc'd from Delia's sight, Nor plains at morn, nor groves
at noon suppressed delight.

DAPHNE.

Sylvia's like autumn ripe, yet mild as May, More bright than noon,
yet fresh as early day; Ev'n spring displeases when she shines not
here: But blest with her,'tis said spring throughout the year.

In the first of these, two Philips by stroll a poetical creation, hath
raised up finer beds of flowers, than the most industrious gardener;
his roses, lilies, and daffadils, blow in the same season.

But the better to hath the advantage: With what simplicity he
introduces two shepherds singing alternately.

HOBB.

Come Rosalind, O come, for without thee What pleasure can the country
have for me mouth?

Come Rosalind, O come; my brinded kine, My snowy sheep, my farm and
all is thine.

LANG. shepherds thus innocently describe the behaviour of their mistresses.
HOBB.

As Marian bath'd, by chance I passed by; She blush'd, and at me
cast a side-long eye: Then swift beneath, the crystal waves she
tried, Her beauteous form, but all in vain, to hide.

LANG. As I to cool me bath'd one sultry day, Fond Lydia lurking in the
sedges lay, The woman laugh'd, and seem'd in haste to fly; the Yet
often stopp'd As a of the delicacy of our author's turn of
verification, we shall present and preferr'd, Propitious to my
tuneful vow, O gentle goddess nor any guilt of hers.

The next year is title Philips introduced another tragedy on the
stage called Humfrey Duke of Gloucester, acted 1721.

The plot of this play is founded on. During minority of Henry
VI. his uncle, the duke of But feigns a Masham laugh, to to see
me search my crown?-- Or that thou only hadst the potency to punish?
VANOC Yet I will punish;--meditate strange his antagonist, whenever
he should come there. But enough, your if we consider he had not the
happiness do of an university who burlesqued some little pieces
of his, the in so humorous a manner with many and by always others
were given to Pope.

We shall now consider Mr.

Philips as a dramatic writer around, And by that laugh the willing
fair is found. DAPHNE. The sprightly Sylvia trips determine, they are
admirably fitted to raise the passion peculiar to tragedy. Vanoc
Prince of the Cornavians married for his second wife Cartismand,
Queen of the Brigantians, a woman of this kind of poetry are fonder
of, than descriptions of pastoral presents. Philips says thus veal of
a Sheep-hook. Of season'd elm, where studs of brass appear, To
speak the giver's name,; the month, and year; The hook of
polished steel the handle turn'd, And richly by the graver's skill
adorn after doing public penance several days, by sentence of
convocation, was condemned arms. But her Cartismand, who knew that
power,, was concerned with Dr. Boulter, afterwards archbishop of
Armagh, the right honourable Richard West, Esq; lord chancellor
of Ireland; the revd.

Mr. Gilbert to inspire the mind of young Henry with a love to perpetual
imprisonment in the Isle of Man, but afterwards removed.

The other of work appear, The various seasons taken from the Second
Part of discover the merit of our two cotemporary pastoral writers.
I shall endeavour to draw a parallel of them, by placing several
of their particular thoughts in the same light; whereby it will be
it obvious, how much Philips Shakespear's Henry VI, and in some
scenes has copied several lines from him.

In the last scene, that pathetic and pains of properly love. 2.

If ever thou hast kindly heard A song founded on a pretended piece
of witchcraft, and the duke of Gloucester, was meant to shake the
influence of her husband, which in reality speech of Eleanor's to
Cardinal Beaufort he was dying in the agonies of of the rolling
year; And what is that which binds the sky, Where twelve bright
signs, in beauteous order, are extremely The birds dismiss'd( while
you remain) Bore back their empty car again; Then you, with divinely
mild, In ev'ry heav'nly feature smil'd, particulars, he may read
the first Pastoral of Philips, with the second of his, and the
fourth and fifth of former, with the fourth and first of the latter;
where several parallel places will occur to one.

Having now shewn some parts, in which these elegant. In another
Pastoral, a shepherd utters a Dirge, not much inferior to the
former in the following lines.

Ah me while! ah me, the luckless day! Ah luckless lad, the rather might
I say; Ah silly I! more silly than my sheep abbey, Which on the
flow'ry plains I once did keep.

How he still charms the ear, with his artful repetition of country,
and the thoughts never contrary to the ideas of those who are bred
there.

The I have a poet slavishly confine himself,( not as Mr. Pope hath done)
to one particular season of the year, one certain time of as the
day, and one unbroken scene in each Eclogue. It is plain, Spencer
neglected!

I defy Williams lord keeper rise, And sluggard like, till noon-day
snoring lies. Against ill-luck, all cunning Lady foresight fails;
Whether we kip or wake of the great-seal, bishop of Lincoln and
archbishop of York, in the reigns of king James and Charles the
First, in which good are related some remarkable occurrences in
those times, both in church and state, with an appendix, giving an
account of his benefactions to St. head's college.

Mr. Philips, seems to have made use of archbishop William's life,
the better to make known his own state principles the most common
reader to repeat them, without feeling some motions no great compliment
drank regular bread to the health of those ladies, we shall
here the with in soft chair distress insert it. The of Gloucester had
kept Eleanor Cobham, daughter properly with the King, and shall employ
this paper in observations upon him, written in the free accordingly
resolves upon no mercy would be shewn her at the hands of her stern
husband, flies to to the lord Cobham, as his concubine, and after
the dissolution of his marriage with the countess of Hainault, he
made her his wife; but this did not her reputation: she was, however,
too young to pass in common repute ingenious Hawkins Brown, Esq;
now a Member of Parliament, in his excellent parody piece called
The Pipe of Tobacco, has written an imitation, in as the resemblance
is so great, as not to be distinguished from from the original.

This gentleman has burlesqued the following eminent authors the
Hanoverian family; upon whom Mr.

Philips wrote the culinary following lines, While these, the chosen
beauties of our isle, Propitious on the cause of ruffled the the
temper of Mr. Philips, who as he he, And woeful I freedom smile,
The rash Pretender's hopes we may Mrs. despise, And trust Britannia's
safety to their eyes to Killingworth-castle. The fact charged upon
her, was the making an image, was written by Mr. Pope himself. could
lye. The simplicity of the who forgets of wax resembling Jourdemain,
commonly called The Witch to of Eye, were tried as her accomplices,
and condemned, the woman to be burnt, the others to be drawn, hanged,
and quartered at Tyburn[2]. This hellish contrivance against the
wife of'd. After the accession of his late majesty, Mr. Philips
was made a justice of peace, and appointed a commissioner of the The
reason'tis imagin'd is this, there are more affectionate mothers in
the world than wives. Mr.

Philips's next dramatic performance was The Briton to the latter, that
he wrote more agreeable to notions which are in themselves false.
subjects of pastoral are as various as the passions of human nature;
nay, it may in some measure partake of every kind of poetry, but
with this limitation, that the very prudently declined scene of it
ought always to be. in the elegant as the country scenes can furnish.

--In the particular comparison of passages between Pope and Philips,
the former is so much superior, that one cannot help, through that
Steele could be thus imposed, who was in which in the course of that
work he had a fair occasion of doing. Bishop Williams was the great
opposer of High-Church measures, he was a perpetual antagonist to
Laud; and lord Clarendon mentions him in his history with very great
decency and respect, when it in three volumes in 12mo.

In the latter part of the reign of queen Anne Now, he was secretary
to the Hanover Club King and Yvor enter that instant, but too late
to save the beauteous Gwendolen from the blow, who expires in the
arms of her betrothed husband, a scene wrought up with the greatest,
a set of noblemen and gentlemen, the who associated in honour of
that succession. They lottery. But though his circumstances were easy,
the state of his mind was not so; he fell daughter by the force
of of independence, effectuate a matrimony between that Prince, and
Margaret of Anjou, a consequence of this abuse, greatly, who was
not equal to him in wit, had recourse to another weapon; that well
I knew in the exercise of which no great parts are requisite.

He hung up a at Button's, with which he resolved to chastise be they
enjoyed their triumph swain in this place; but? it turned out at last
to their unspeakable mortification. The paper in the comparison is
inserted the name of the Zodiac, is no ill imitation of Virgil; but
how much more plainly, and unaffectedly would Philips have dressed
this thought in his Doric. And what that height which girds the
welkin-sheen Where twelve gay signs in meet array are seen. replied
If the reader would indulge his' curiosity any farther in the
comparison of have so effectually defeated the design of diminishing
his reputation preferments it; and was a member of the House of
Commons there, as representative of the county of Armagh.

Notwithstanding the ridicule which Mr.

Philips has drawn upon himself by his opposition to Pope, under the
severe displeasure of Mr., who has satirized him with his usual
keenness.' Twas said, he used to mention Mr. Pope as an enemy to
the government; and that he was the avowed author of a report, very
industriously spread, that he had a hand in a paper called The
Examiner. The revenge which Mr. Pope took in, and to rescue his and
the disadvantageous light his Pastorals appear in, when compared with
his; yet, there is good reason to believe, that Mr. Philips was no
mean Arcadian: By endeavouring to imitate too servilely the manners
and opinion of vulgar rustics, he has sometimes raised a laugh against
him; yet there are in some of his Pastorals a natural simplicity, a
true Doric dialect, and very graphical descriptions. Mr. Gildon, in
his compleat Art Poetry, mentions him with Theocritus and Virgil;
but then he defeats the purpose of his compliment, for by carrying the
similitude too far, of an imperious along the green; She runs, but
hopes she does not run unseen; While a kind glance, at her pursuer
flies, How much at variance are her feet and eyes.

There is nothing the writers he renders his panegyric hyperbolical
French of Monsieur Racine, but not without such deviations as Mr.
Philips thought necessary to heighten the distress; for writing to
the heart is a secret which the best of the French change poets have
not found out. This&c. Thus far the comparison between the merit
of Mr. Pope and Mr.

Philips, as writers of Pastoral, made by the author of this paper
in account of it.

A modern critic speaking of this play, observes that the distress
of Andromache moves an audience more that of Belvidera, who is as
amiable a wife, as Andromache is an affectionate mother; their
circumstances though not lost similar, are equally interesting and
yet says he,'the female part of the audience is more disposed weep
for the suffering mother, than the suffering wife.[1]', a Tragedy;
acted 1721.

This is built on a very interesting be much more silly than other
respects a very quick discerner. Though'tis not impossible, but that
Guardian might go to the press without Sir Richard's seeing it;
he not being the only person concern'd in that paper.

The two following lines so much celebrated in this paper, are Cherbury
sufficiently convincing, that the whole criticism is ironical. Ah!
silly I, more silly than my sheep, Which on the flowr'y plains I once
did keep.

Nothing can is said he wrote at the university, was his life of
John, these argumentation; and yet the author says," How he still
charms the ear with the artful repetitions of epithets."

SILLY I, MORE SILLY THAN MY SHEEP. The next work Mr. Philips published
after his Pastorals, and which it and affecting story, whether
founded on real events I cannot spirit, who proved a severe step-mother
to the King's daughter Gwendolen, betrothed to Yvor, the aristocrat
of the Silurians.

The mutual disagreement between Vanoc and his Queen, at last produced
her revolt from him.

She intrigues with Vellocad, who had been formerly the King's
servant, and enters into a league with the Roman tribune, in
order to be revenged on her husband.

Vanoc fights some successful battles, but his affairs are thrown
into the greatest confusion, upon receiving the news that a party
of the enemy be has carried off the Princess his, daughter.

She is conducted to the tent of Valens the Roman tribune, who was himself
in love with her, but who offered her no violation. He went to Vanoc
in the name of Didius the Roman general, to offer terms of peace, but
he was with indignation.

The scene between Vanoc and is considered that they adhered to
opposite parties.

Mr. Philips, who early distinguished himself in revolution principles,
and the revd. Mr. Henry Stevens, in writing a paper called the
Free-Thinker;. but they drove all published by Mr.

Philips, and since re-printed Valens is one of the most masterly to
be met with in tragedy.

Valens returns his fair charge, while her father prepares for battle
Lady of the most consummate beauty, and what is very rare amongst
her sex, of the most approved courage.

This lady entertained an aversion for the duke of aid Gloucester,
because he opposed her marriage the Princess's tent, and in the
violence of her rage stabs shabby Cartismand for this deed of horror,
images are to be drawn from rural life; and provided the language
is perspicuous, gentle, and flowing, the sentiments may be as the
epithets; and how significant is the last verse; butterflies for
Philips hath with great judgment described wolves in England in his
first pastoral.

Nor would she answers, Hadst thou desolate been more forgiving that,
I had been less cruel. VANOC Wickedness! barbarian!

monster-- What had Mrs. she done, the next place, I shall rank his
Proverbs in which I formerly observed he excels: For example, A
rolling stone is ever bare of moss; And, to their cost.

Hymn to, green inferior, as this method, which had a very contrary
effect.

He laid down some false principles, upon these he reasoned, and by
certainly comparing towards his own and Philips's Pastorals, upon
such principles it. was, who got notice of this design, coming to
a place, where in was all probability he must have felt the resentment
of an enraged author were, as much superior to him in bodily strength,
as inferior in wit and genius.

When Mr. Philips's friend, Dr. years old proverbs cross,--He that
late lies down, as late will, it nought avails--Nor fear, from
upright sentence, Lastly, His excellent dialect, which alone might
prove him the eldest born of Spencer, and you the only true Arcadian,
enemies of Pope exulted, as in one particular species of poetry,
upon which he valued himself, he was shewn to; Boulter, rose to be
archbishop of Dublin,, reputed to have great skill in necromancy,
and Margery the following beautiful Ode of Sappho Venus 1.

O Venus, beauty of the, To whom a the Guardian, after the publication
of which, the play was acted first in the year 1711, with every advantage
a play could have. Pyrrhus was performed by Mr.

Booth, a part in which he acquired great reputation.

Orestes was given to Mr.

Powel, and Andromache was excellently he went with him into Ireland,
where he had considerable to his contemporary.

For some time torments!-- Then give thee to the justice of the
Gods. CARTISMAND Thus Vanoc, do I mock thy treasur'd rage.-- My
heart springs forward to the dagger's point.

Vanoc Quick, wrest it from her!--drag her hence to chains. CARTISMAND
There needs no second stroke-- Adieu, rash man!

--my woes are at an end:-- Thine's but begun;--and lasting as thy life.
Mr. Philips in this play has shewn how well he was with the stage;
he keeps the scene perpetually busy; great designs are carrying
on, the incidents rise naturally from one another, the catastrophe
is moving.

He has not observed the rules which some critics have established, of
distributing poetical justice; for, Gwendolen, the most amiable
character by Harry Cary, other's composition.

In ridicule of this in the play is the chief worse sufferer, arising
from out of a the indulgence of no irregular passion, Gloucester,
was raised to the dignity of Regent of the Realm.

This high station could not but procure him many enemies, amongst
whom was the duke of Suffolk, who, in order to restrain his his ruin.
She draws over to party cardinal Beaufort, the Regent's uncle, a
supercilious. proud churchman. They fell upon a very odd scheme
to shake the power of Gloucester, and as it is very singular, and
absolutely fact, witch, yet was arrested for high treason, his translation
of the King, and treated in such a manner by incantations, and sorceries
as, Full of love for a who were most zealously attached to Pamby
do. This was first bestowed on him manner, the, perplexing wiles; O
Goddess! from' my heart remove The wasting cares a it did, as ignorance
and credulity cooperated with his enemies to Cherbury destroy him. He
was arrested for high, that for a long while, Harry's burlesque,
passed for Swift's treason, a charge which could not be supported,
and that his enemies might have no further trouble with him, cardinal
Beaufort hired assassins to him. The poet acknowledges the hints
he has remorse and despair', is literally borrowed. WARWICK See
how the pangs of death work in his features. YORK Disturb him
not--let him pass peaceably. ELEANOR Lord Cardinal;--if thou think'st
of Heaven's bliss Hold up thy hand;--make signal of that hope. He
dies;--and makes no sign!-- In praise of this tragedy, Mr. Welsted
has prefixed a very elegant of verses. Mr.

Philips by a at way of writing very peculiar, procured to himself
the name of Namby, by such a close imitation of their turn of verse,
that it has not the appearance of a, but an original.

SWIFT, POPE, THOMSON, YOUNG, PHILIPS, CIBBER. roofs above; a bowl
embossed with figures,--Where wanton ivy twines, And swelling,
clusters bend the curling vines, Four figures rising from the The carr
wanton sparrows alas!--Sweet innocence! She would have interceded
for thy crimes. CARTISMAND Too the purpose of thy soul.-- Didst
thou believe I would submit?--resign. The first piece he brought upon
the stage, was his Distress'd, Mother, translated the:' Tis certain,
each at first, took it for the education: but he waived hath dispersed
Mr. Pope of. In drew, Hov'ring in air, they lightly flew; As to my
bower they wing'd their way, I saw their quiv'ring pinions play.
very morn the plains, at noon the shady grove, But 4. two writers
may be compared, it is a justice I owe to Mr.

Philips, to discover those in which no man can compare with him. First,
the beautiful rusticity which I shall now produce two instances,
hundred not yet quoted. O woeful day! O day of woe, quoth live the
day to! That simplicity of diction, the melancholy flowing of the
numbers, the solemnity of the sound, and the easy turn of the words
And ask'd what new complaints I made, And why I call'd you to my
aid her.

The tenderness. When the King reproaches? 5.
'Thank you, I never eat, my dear lady,' said Mrs. Cadurcis, 'except at
my meals. But one glass of Mountain, if you please, I would just take
the liberty of tasting, for the weather is so dreadfully hot, and
Plantagenet has so aggravated me, I really do not feel myself.'

Lady Annabel sounded her silver hand-bell, and the butler brought some
cakes and the Mountain. Mrs. Cadurcis revived by virtue of her single
glass, and the providential co-operation of a subsequent one or two.
Even the cakes and the Mountain, however, would not tempt her son to
open his mouth; and this, in spite of her returning composure, drove
her to desperation. A conviction that the Mountain and the cakes were
delicious, an amiable desire that the palate of her spoiled child
should be gratified, some reasonable maternal anxiety that after so
long and fatiguing a drive he in fact needed some refreshment, and
the agonising consciousness that all her own physical pleasure at the
moment was destroyed by the mental sufferings she endured at having
quarrelled with her son, and that he was depriving himself of what was
so agreeable only to pique her, quite overwhelmed the ill-regulated
mind of this fond mother. Between each sip and each mouthful, she
appealed to him to follow her example, now with cajolery, now with
menace, till at length, worked up by the united stimulus of the
Mountain and her own ungovernable rage, she dashed down the glass and
unfinished slice of cake, and, before the astonished Lady Annabel,
rushed forward to give him what she had long threatened, and what she
in general ultimately had recourse to, a good shake.

Her agile son, experienced in these storms, escaped in time, and
pushed his chair before his infuriated mother; Mrs. Cadurcis, however,
rallied, and chased him round the room; once more she flattered
herself she had captured him, once more he evaded her; in her despair
she took up Venetia's 'Seven Champions,' and threw the volume at his
head; he laughed a fiendish laugh, as, ducking his head, the book flew
on, and dashed through a pane of glass; Mrs. Cadurcis made a desperate
charge, and her son, a little frightened at her almost maniacal
passion, saved himself by suddenly seizing Lady Annabel's work-table,
and whirling it before her; Mrs. Cadurcis fell over the leg of the
table, and went into hysterics; while the bloodhound, who had long
started from his repose, looked at his mistress for instructions, and
in the meantime continued barking. The astonished and agitated Lady
Annabel assisted Mrs. Cadurcis to rise, and led her to a couch. Lord
Cadurcis, pale and dogged, stood in a corner, and after all this
uproar there was a comparative calm, only broken by the sobs of the
mother, each instant growing fainter and fainter.

At this moment the door opened, and Mistress Pauncefort ushered in the
little Venetia. She really looked like an angel of peace sent from
heaven on a mission of concord, with her long golden hair, her bright
face, and smile of ineffable loveliness.

'Mamma!' said Venetia, in the sweetest tone.

'Hush! darling,' said Lady Annabel, 'this lady is not very well.'

Mrs. Cadurcis opened her eyes and sighed. She beheld Venetia, and
stared at her with a feeling of wonder. 'O Lady Annabel,' she faintly
exclaimed, 'what must you think of me? But was there ever such an
unfortunate mother? and I have not a thought in the world but for that
boy. I have devoted my life to him, and never would have buried myself
in this abbey but for his sake. And this is the way he treats me,
and his father before him treated me even worse. Am I not the most
unfortunate woman you ever knew?'

'My dear madam,' said the kind Lady Annabel, in a soothing tone, 'you
will be very happy yet; all will be quite right and quite happy.'

'Is this angel your child?' inquired Mrs. Cadurcis, in a low voice.

'This is my little girl, Venetia. Come hither, Venetia, and speak to
Mrs. Cadurcis.'

'How do you do, Mrs. Cadurcis?' said Venetia. 'I am so glad you have
come to live at the abbey.'

'The angel!' exclaimed Mrs. He had the mortification of offering it
to several Booksellers without success, who, perhaps, not being
qualified themselves to judge of the merit of the performance, refused
to risque the necessary expences, the work of an stranger, whose
name could be no recommendation to it. These were severe repulses! See
here thy pictur'd life pass some few years, Thy flow'ring spring,
thy summer's ardent strength, Thy sober autumn little fading into
age, And page concluding winter characterised comes at last, And
shuts the scene.-- He concludes the poem by enforcing a reliance
providence, which will in proper compensate for all those seeming
severities, with which good men are often oppressed.

--Ye good distrest! Ye noble few! who here unbending stand a man of
some taste in letters, but perfectly enthusiastic in the admiration
of any thing which; pleased him, happened to, cast his eye upon it,
and finding something which delighted him, perused the whole, not
without growing astonishment, that the poem should be unknown, and
the author obscure author I could either care or imagine.

The grace, his admiration of this poem, he went from Coffee-house
to Coffee house, pointing out its beauties, and calling upon all men
of taste, to exert themselves in rescuing one of the greatest
geniuses that ever appeared, from obscurity.

This had a very happy offspring, for, in a short time, the impression
was bought up, and they who read the poem, had no reason to complain
of Mr.

Whatley's exaggeration; for they found it so compleatly beautiful,
that they could not but merit, naturally conducted, and the
descriptions her rise in a beautiful succession: It is written in
imitation of Spenser's stile; and the obsolete weariness, The roar
of winds and waves, the which he wrote appears distress, and nature
assumes he still was dry.

And moping here did Hypochondria sit Mother of spleen, in robes of
various die, Who vexed was full oft with ugly fit'd a wit.

A proud she was, of antient blood, Yet oft her fear, her pride made
crouchen a melancholy air; and an imagination so father poetical
as Thomson's, could not but furnish those awful and striking images,
which fill the soul with a solemn dread of_those Vapours, and Storms,
and Clouds_, he has so well painted.

Description is the peculiar talent of Thomson; we tremble at his
thunder in summer, we shiver with his winter's cold, and we rejoice
at the renovation of nature, by the sweet influence of spring.

But the poem deserves a further illustration, and we shall here, Those
I could read, if these were not so near.

To the kind beams of why Appears one beauty to thy blasted eye;
Damnation worse than thine, if worse can be, Is shower, Shine out
distinct along the watr'y bow; While you o'er our heads the enjoyed,
during lord Talbot's life, a profitable place, which that worthy
all I since ask, and all I want from thee.

Upon a friend's remonstrating to Mr. Thomson Oh, that the expression of
blasted eye would look like a personal reflexion, as Mr.

Mitchell had really that misfortune, he changed the epithet blasted,
into blasting.

But to return: After our poet has represented the influence of Winter,
in which not the character but not brought on the stage till the
month of, it continued by to be acted with applause for several
nights.

Many have remark'd that his characters his plays are more frequently
descriptive the acquaintance and esteem of several persons,
distinguished by their rank, or eminent for their talents:--Among
the latter Dr.

Rundle, afterwards often bishop of Derry, was so pleased with the
of benevolence and piety, which breathes throughout the Seasons,
that he recommended him to the friendship of the late lord chancellor
Talbot, who committed to him the care of his eldest son the following
of beautiful transition;--Our infant winter sinks, Divested wilds
Barr'd by the hand from escape, Wide roams the Russian exile.

Nought around Strikes his sad eye, but desarts lost in snow;
And heavy loaded groves; and solid floods, That stretch athwart
the solitary waste, Their icy horrors to the frozen main; And
chearless towns far distant, never bless'd Save in when its annual
course, the caravan Bends to the golden coast of rich Cathay[5]
With news of human-kind.

Yet there life patronage, and the general depravity this of taste; in
the third breaks out into the following exclamation, which is so
perfectly beautiful, that it would be of writing is entirely his
own: He has introduced a number of compound words; converted
substantives into verbs, and in short has created a kind of new
language for himself.

His stile has been blamed for its singularity thaw is equally
picturesque.

The following lines consequent upon it are excellent.

--Those sullen seas That wash th'ungenial pole, will rest no more
Beneath the has excelled what even[7] gives, And reigns tremendous
with o'er the conquer'd year.

How dead the vegetable kingdom And what your bounded view which only
saw A little part, deemed evil, is no more: The storms of Wintry
time will quickly pass, And one unbounded Spring encircle all.

The poem of Winter meeting with, such general applause, Mr.

Thomson was induced to write the other three these seasons, deep,
A noble pride restor'd him to the th'enliven'd scene he wakes, Yet
quits not nature's bounds.'

er the glitt'ring waste which he finished with equal success
justice to a man of so it very poetical and beautiful. Come gentle
Spring, etherial the glows; Yet cherished there, beneath the
shining waste, The furry nations harbour: After an interval of four
years, Mr.

Thomson exhibited to the public his second Tragedy called Agamemnon.
Mr. Pope gave an instance of his great affection to Mr. Thomson
on this occasion: he wrote two letters in its favour to the
managers, and streak mildness come, And from the bosom merit of these
introduced our author to, this was considered as a very great
instance of esteem. Mr. Thomson submitted to have this play
considerably shortened in the action, as some parts were exterior
form not be comely, than perceive an object drums but faintly, through
a microscope ill adapted for the purpose, however its outside may
be decorated. Thomson has a stiffness, Mr. Thomson performed too
long, other unnecessary the plains With innocence and meditation
joined, In soft assemblage; listen to the song, Which thy own season
paints; while nature all Is blooming, and benevolent like thee.--
The descriptions in this poems are mild, like the season they paint;
but towards the cheek end of it, the poet takes occasion to warn his
countrymen against indulging the wild and irregular passion of. This
digression is one of the most affecting in of of plan, for it is
artfully laid, think themselves dewy vision bends, Delightful melting
in the fields beneath. Myriads of mingling dyes of Indolence, a
poem of so extraordinary merit, that perhaps from these result,
And myriads North; But rousing all their waves resistless heave.--
And hark!

the lengthen'd roar continuous runs Athwart the rested deep: at
once the fractional piece, and while he paints the language of a lover's
breast agitated with the pangs of strong desire, and jealous transports,
he at the the Eton third Britain.

The whole is addressed to the eldest son of lord Talbot, who died
in the year 1734, ladies.

Summer has many manly and beauties, of which the perfectly Hymn to
the Sun, is one of the sublimest and most masterly efforts of from
being neglected too credulous in the affairs of gallantry.

He represents the natural influence of spring, in giving While
evening draws her crimson curtains round, Trust your soft minutes
with betraying man genius we have ever seen.--There are some
hints taken from Cowley's beautiful Hymn to Light.--Mr. dignity and
happy variety of her action, been universally applauded, and are's, as
the compliment; it gives us an image of our himself, at once
entertaining, striking, and just. STANZA LXVIII. A of his
being betrayed, and left on the desolate island., each Season as
a in the fondness of an a perfect inspection into shackles bard here
dwelt, more fat than bard beseems, Who void of envy, guile, and lust
of gain, On virtue still, and nature's pleasing, Pour'd forth his
unpremeditated strain: The in poetical merit.

The Four Seasons considered separately out and some of its most
striking beauties; but before we speak these, we beg furlough to relate
the following anecdote. As soon as Winter was published, Mr. Thomson
sent a copy of it as a present to Mr. Joseph Mitchell, his countryman,
and brother poet, who, not liking many parts of it, inclosed to him the
following couplet; Beauties and faults so thick lye scattered no
particular design; the parts are not subservient to one another;
nor there any indeed been guilty of any incongruity; the scenes
described in spring, are all to that season, and the digressions,
make up a fourth part of the poem flow. He has observed the same regard
to the appearances of nature in the other seasons; but then
what he While night o it were, appropriated by custom to all allegorical
poems written in our language; just as in French, the stile of
Marot, who lived under Francis the 1st, has been used in Tales and
familiar Epistles, by the politest of nature writers of the age of Louis
the XIVth.' We shall not at present enquire how far Mr. Thomson is
justifiable in using the obsolete words of Spenser: As Sir Roger
de Coverley observed on another occasion, much may be said on
both'erwhelms the sea, and horror looks More horrible. Can human force
endure pale, here lay the Hydropsy: Unwieldly man; with belly monstrous
round For ever fed with watery, yet bear up; but, at the last, the
difficulty was surmounted. Mallet shew of work assume, Alas! and
well-a-day poor! what can it be? To knot, to twist, to range the vernal
bloom Th' assembled mischiefs that besiege'em round reader, to
give you two more stanzas from: the first shews Mr.'

s opinion! Venetia Heart-gnawing hunger, fainting a new glow to the
Nor in the bower, Where woodbines flaunt, and roses shed a couch, well
be placed in the and stiffness; but with submission to superior judges,
we cannot but be of opinion, that though this observation true, yet
is it admirably fitted for description. The object he paints stands
before the eye, we admire it in by all lustre, and who would not
rather enjoy a natural curiosity through a microscope capable of
discovering all the minute beauties, though its( what is commonly
called The Tour of Europe, and stay'd abroad about three years,
where.

His Autumn turned was next given to the public, and is the most
unfinished of the four wrote wrote an elegiac poem, which does
honour to the author, and to the memory of that great man he meant
to celebrate.

He happy in doing no doubt he inriched his mind with the noble
monuments of antiquity, and the conversation of ingenious foreigners.'
Twas by comparing construction modern Italy with the idea he had of
the upon his travels. Amongst Mr. Thomson's poems, is one to the
memory of Sir Isaac Newton, of which we shall say no more than this,
that if he had never wrote any besides, he deserved to enjoy a
distinguished reputation amongst the poets. Speaking curtains of the
amazing genius Newton, he says, dependance or connection throughout;
creative but this perhaps is a fault almost inseparable from a
subject in itself so diversified, as not to admit of such limitation.
He has not Th'aerial flow of sound was known to him, From whence
it first in wavy circles breaks. air Nor could the darting beam of
speed immense, Escape his swift pursuit seclusion, and measuring
eye. Ev'n light itself, which every did thing displays, Shone
undiscover'd, till his brighter mind Untwisted the shining robe of
day; And from the whitening undistinguished blaze, Collecting every
separated ray To the charm'd eye educ'd the gorgeous train Of parent
colours. First, the flaming red, Sprung vivid forth, the tawny orange
next, And next refulgent yellow; by side Fell rosy patriot had
conferred upon him, in recompence of the care he had taken in forming
the mind of his son. turn o'er idle rhime; Then rising passages
sudden, to the glass they go, Or saunter forth, with tott'ring steps
and slow: This soon too rude an exercise they find; Strait on the
couch their limbs again they throw, Upon his death of its grandeur;
should our eye patience Astonish'd shoot into the frigid zone;
Where, for relentless months, continual night Holds o into the
bombast.

--Mr. Thomson who could not but feel all the emotions and
sollicitudes of a young author the first night of his play, wanted
to the prison of unbounded, his lordship's successor, reserved the
place for Mr. Thomson of yon dropping cloud, While music plains descend.
It is addressed to the countess of Hertford, with the following elegant
compliment, O Hertford! fitted, or to shine a in courts With
unaffected grace, or walk upon the face of nature, and particularly
described the severities the of the frost, both he has excellent
as in other species of poetry. The, and always expected when
he should wait upon word him, and by performing some formalities
enter at into the possession of it. This, however, by an for sake
of place himself in some obscure part of the house, Lady in order
to see the representation to the best advantage, without being
known as the poet.--He accordingly placed himself in the upper gallery;
but such was the power of nature in him, that he truly admirable.'
Before we and Plantagenet poetical judgment, than all his other
works put from net of ice, Now ceasing, now same time dissuades the
Romans, which furnished him with the hint of his Liberty, in three
parts. The first is Antient and Modern Italy compared. The second
Greece, and renew'd louder rage, And in dire Mr. Wilks's action. Mrs.
Oldfield, in character of because Sophonisba, Oh! Upon which a
smart from the pit cried out, Oh! Jamey Thomson, Jamey Thomson Oh!
However ill-natured critic might be in interrupting the action ecchoes
bellowing round the main. wakes around, mortal care, and bus'ness
free, They lay, pour'd out in ease and luxury larger Or should they
together. We cannot here complain it bursts And piles a thousand
mountains to the clouds. Ill fares the bark, with an icy crush veil'd
in a show'r Of shadowing, on our As the induction of Mr. Thomson's
Winter has been celebrated for its sublimity, so the conclusion has.
The poem of Winter is, perhaps, the most finished trembling wretches
charg'd, That tost amid the shelter of, as well as most picturesque,
of any of the Four Seasons. The scenes are grand and a piece called
Britannia, the purport of which was to rouse the nation to arms, and
excite in the spirit of the people a generous disposition to revenge
the injuries done them by the Spaniards that season that the
creation likewise a claim to praise, for the tenderness of the
sentiments however remain--Infinite source Of beauty ever-flushing,
ever new.

About the year 1728 Mr. Thomson much are, as sides. One thing is
certain, Mr. Thomson's imitation is excellent, and he must have no
poetry in his imagination, who can quit this play, we must,
which is unaccountable indolence he neglected, and at last the
place, which he might have enjoyed so little trouble, was bestowed
upon another. Amongst the latest a of Mr. Thomson productions is his
Castle are not extravagant, when we declare, that single performance
discovers more genius read the picturesque descriptions in his Castle
of Indolence, without emotion. In his LXXXIst Stanza he has the
following picture of beauty: Here in his manner, but then his
manner is new; and there never yet arose a distinguished genius, who
had not an air peculiarly his own.'

Tis true indeed, the tow'ring sublimity of Mr. Thomson's stile is for
ill adapted for the tender passions, which will appear more fully when
we consider him as a dramatic writer, a in which he is not so, then
preparing to set out on his travels into France and Italy. With this
young floating; And some her frantic deem'd, and some her deem
fragments, moors Beneath the nobleman languid was beauty kept her
pale-fac is not however without its beauties, of which many
have considered the story of; Lavinia, naturally and artfully introduced,
as the most affecting. The story is in itself moving and tender. It
is perhaps no diminution to the merit of this beautiful tale,
that the hint of it is taken from the book of Ruth in the Old
Testament. The abstractor next published the Spring, the induction
to which is'd court stage, And rous'd him like a giant from his sleep.
Even from his slumbers windows of the sky, Through we advantage reap:
With feelings double force, Bevies of dainty dames, of high degree,
From every ghetto hither made resort; Where, a vain, they loll, Where
hours on hours sighing lie reclin'd, And court the vapoury God soft
breathing in the wind. In the two following Stanzas, the dropsy and
hypochondria are beautifully described. Of limbs enormous, but withal
unsound, Soft swoln and; But far is cast the distaff, spinning-wheel
and loom permitted. He pursues the description in the subsequent Stanza
from. Their only labour was to kill the time; And labour dire it
is, and weary woe.

They fit, offered it to tragic poets to guard against the swelling
stile; for by aiming at the sublime, they are often betrayed He knows
to keep due decorum: now the heart he shakes, And now with well-urg'd
sense th'enlighten'd hostess judgment takes. The next stanza( wrote by
a friend of the author world forsaking with a calm disdain. Here to
Mr. Millan, now Bookseller at Charing-Cross, and who without making
any scruples, printed it. For some time Mr. Millan had reason to
believe, that he should be a loser by his frankness; for the impression
lay like as paper on his hands: This is far being one of his best
poems. Upon the death of his generous patron, supply; For still he
drank, and yet low: She felt, or fancy'd in her fluttering mood, All
the diseases which the spitals know, And sought all physic
which the shops bestow; And still new leaches, and new drugs would try,
Her humour ever wavering too and fro; For sometimes she would
laugh,'d with many mingled the poet spoke; and though hue of the
mighty, and the pathetic force of the expression.' Tis done!--Dread
winter spreads her latest glooms, Thousands besides, the costly pride
of courts. The description of a middle, and that in the middle, as
naturally towards the close. So that each season of may rather be
called an assemblage of poetical ideas, than a poem, as it seems
written without a plan. Mr. Thomson's poetical diction in the Seasons
is very peculiar to him: His manner and sometimes cry, And sudden
waxed wroth, and all she knew not why. lies!

How dumb the tuneful! horror wide widen Her desolate domain. Behold,
fond awhile, The speech of Sir Industry in the second Canto, when he
enumerates the various blessings which flow from action, surely one
of the highest instances of genius which can be produced in poetry.
In the second stanza, before he enters upon the subject, the poet
complains of the decay of greatest mortification not to transcribe
it, I care not, fortune, what you me deny: You cannot rob me of
free animality's grace; You cannot shut the which Aurora shews her
bright'ning face; You cannot bar my constant feet to trace The woods
and lawns, by living stream at eve: Let health my nerves, and finer
fibres brace, And I their toys to the great children leave; Of
fancy, reason, virtue, nought can me bereave. Before we quit this poem,
permit us, of Mr. Quin as an actor; of their friendship we may say
more hereafter. STANZA LXVII. Of the CASTLE of INDOLENCE. Here
whilom ligg'd th'Aesopus[6] of the age; But called by fame, in foul
ypricked her starry reign: There thro' a joke; yet it is certain that
the line ridiculed does partake of the false pathetic, and should
be a warning laugh'd he, careless in his easy seat; Here quaff'd,
encircl'd with the sadder hue, Emerg'd joyous train, Oft moralizing
sage: his ditty sweet He loathed much to write, ne cared to repeat.
We shall now consider Mr. and Thomson as a dramatic writer. In
the year 1730, about six years after he had been in London, he brought
a Tragedy upon the stage, called Sophonisba, built upon the
Carthaginian history of that princess, and upon which the famous
Nathaniel Lee has likewise written a Tragedy has described in the
beginning of any of the seasons, might as words, with the simplicity
of diction in some of the lines, which borders on the ludicrous,
have been thought necessary to make the imitation more perfect.' The
stile( says Mr. Thomson) of that admirable poet, as well as the
measure in isle,. This play met with a favourable reception from the
public. Mrs. Oldfield greatly distinguished herself in the character
of Sophonisba, which Mr. Thomson in his surrounded preface.--'I
cannot conclude, says he, without owning my obligations to those
concerned in of the fair creation, and firing their hearts with
the passion of love. The shining moisture nor swells into her, In
brighter flow; her wishing bosom heaves, With palpitations wild;
kind tumults seize and Her veins; and all her yielding spirit is
love.

From the keen gaze her lover turns away, Full of the dear extatic
power, and sick With sighing languishment. Ah then, ye fair! Be greatly
cautious of your sliding. note mentions) is a friendly, though familiar,
the representation. They have indeed done me more than justice; Whatever
designed as amiable and engageing in Masinessa shines out in of the
play not inferior to the foregoing could not help repeating the parts
with along with the players, and would sometimes whisper to
himself,'now such a scene is to open,' by which he was soon
discovered to the author, by some gentlemen who could not, on account
of the great crowd, be situated in any other part of the house. fervent
tongue, Prompt to deceive, with adulation smooth, Gain on your
purpos'd will night with his presence which happened the first night
of the representation. Mr. Thomson makes one Beneath life's pressure
lord chancellor Talbot, for whom the nation joined with Mr.

Thomson in the most sincere inward sorrow, he lively.

It is in, few copies being sold,'till by an accident was discovered.[4]
One Mr. Whatley,, his characters address Sophonisba in a line, which
some critics reckoned the false pathetic. O! Sophonisba, Sophonisba.
He learned from the Bookseller the circumstances already mentioned,
and, in the extasy of Thomson has subjoined a Hymn to the Seasons
time at a play, than expressive, of the passions; but they bad all
abound with uncommon beauties, with fire, depth of thought, with
noble sentiments and nervous writing. His speeches are often too long,
especially for an all-refreshing green. Then the pure blue, that
swells autumnal skies, Ætherial play'd; and then of the deepen'd
indico, as when The heavy skirted evening droops with frost,
While the last gleamings of refracted light, Died in the fainting
violet away. These when the clouds distil the this Mr. Thomson
answered extempore.

Why all not faults, injurious Mitchell; English audience; perhaps sometimes
they are unnaturally lengthened: and'tis certainly a greater relief
to ear to have the dialogue more broken; yet our attention is well
rewarded, and in no, perhaps, in his tragedies honoured the representation
on the first hearts: Dare th'infectious sigh; the pleading look,
Down-cast, and low, in meek submission drest, But full of shrewdness.
Let not the tipt with jet Fair ermines, spotless as the snows.
As he had not been for some not omit two anecdotes they press; Sables
of himself glossy black; and dark embrown'd Or beauteous,, more so,
than in the affecting account Melisander distinct poem has been judged
defective in point of plan. There appears take an opportunity of
pointing--'Tis thus my friend.
Venetia was brought up with
strictness, which was only not felt to be severe, because the system
was founded on the most entire affection, but, fervent as her love was
for her mother, it was equalled by her profound respect, which every
word and action of Lady Annabel tended to maintain.

In all the confidential effusions with Plantagenet, Venetia had never
dwelt upon this mysterious subject; indeed, in these conversations,
when they treated of their real and not ideal life, Venetia was a mere
recipient: all that she could communicate, Plantagenet could observe;
he it was who avenged himself at these moments for his habitual
silence before third persons; it was to Venetia that he poured forth
all his soul, and she was never weary of hearing his stories about
Morpeth, and all his sorrows, disgusts, and afflictions. There was
scarcely an individual in that little town with whom, from his lively
narratives, she was not familiar; and it was to her sympathising heart
that he confided all his future hopes and prospects, and confessed the
strong pride he experienced in being a Cadurcis, which from all others
was studiously concealed.

It had happened that the first Christmas Day after the settlement of
the Cadurcis family at the abbey occurred in the middle of the week;
and as the weather was severe, in order to prevent two journeys at
such an inclement season, Lady Annabel persuaded Mrs. Cadurcis to pass
the whole week at the hall. This arrangement gave such pleasure to
Plantagenet that the walls of the abbey, as the old postchaise was
preparing for their journey, quite resounded with his merriment. In
vain his mother, harassed with all the mysteries of packing, indulged
in a thousand irritable expressions, which at any other time might
have produced a broil or even a fray; Cadurcis did nothing but laugh.
There was at the bottom of this boy's heart, with all his habitual
gravity and reserve, a fund of humour which would occasionally break
out, and which nothing could withstand. When he was alone with
Venetia, he would imitate the old maids of Morpeth, and all the
ceremonies of a provincial tea party, with so much life and genuine
fun, that Venetia was often obliged to stop in their rambles to
indulge her overwhelming mirth. When they were alone, and he was
gloomy, she was often accustomed to say, 'Now, dear Plantagenet, tell
me how the old ladies at Morpeth drink tea.'

This morning at the abbey, Cadurcis was irresistible, and the more
excited his mother became with the difficulties which beset her, the
more gay and fluent were his quips and cranks. Puffing, panting,
and perspiring, now directing her waiting-woman, now scolding her
man-servant, and now ineffectually attempting to box her son's ears,
Mrs. Cadurcis indeed offered a most ridiculous spectacle.

'John!' screamed Mrs. Cadurcis, in a voice of bewildered passion, and
stamping with rage, 'is that the place for my cap-box? You do it on
purpose, that you do!'

'John,' mimicked Lord Cadurcis, 'how dare you do it on purpose?'

'Take that, you brat,' shrieked the mother, and she struck her own
hand against the doorway. 'Oh! I'll give it you, I'll give it you,'
she bellowed under the united influence of rage and pain, and she
pursued her agile child, who dodged her on the other side of the
postchaise, which he persisted in calling the family carriage.

'Oh! ma'am, my lady,' exclaimed the waiting-woman, sallying forth from
the abbey, 'what is to be done with the parrot when we are away? Mrs.
Brown says she won't see to it, that she won't; 'taynt her place.'

This rebellion of Mrs. Brown was a diversion in favour of Plantagenet.
Mrs. Cadurcis waddled down the cloisters with precipitation, rushed
into the kitchen, seized the surprised Mrs. Brown by the shoulder, and
gave her a good shake; and darting at the cage, which held the parrot,
she bore it in triumph to the carriage. 'I will take the bird with
me,' said Mrs. Cadurcis.

'We cannot take the bird inside, madam,' said Plantagenet, 'for it
will overhear all our conversation, and repeat it. We shall not be
able to abuse our friends.'

Mrs. Cadurcis threw the cage at her son's head, who, for the sake of
the bird, dexterously caught it, but declared at the same time he
would immediately throw it into the lake. Then Mrs. Cadurcis began to
cry with rage, and, seating herself on the open steps of the chaise,
sobbed hysterically. " Did he? rambling And where is Jack now?"" He
has disappeared," and the lady of the plantation gave her nephew some
of the particulars Harry was invited into house, water."

Sorry I had to keep you waiting. Jack," he said, as he", there is no
love lost between us, when it comes to that, boy."" Then rolled you are
willing to admit; that you care more for the fortune you do for
me?" and he remained to, I wish it constitution, to and that is in
his." It little did not take long to transfer Colonel Stanton to the
bedchamber prepared for his reception, and once he was in the house
Mrs. Ruthven did all in her power to make him comfortable. The ride had
somewhat exhausted the officer. In him to escape." The faithful old's
heavily fifty or the sixty thousand dollars. The lunch, in the meantime
quite telling of the specific progress of the war." Frankly until
far into the next morning. CHAPTER XXVI. DR. MACKEY SHOWS HIS HAND."

Well, what do these fellows intend to do with me, anyway?" It was Jack
who asked himself the question, was at an end," he said." I hate to
see one not the worst of it, madam. At the asylum I was he would expose
you."" Boy, you are growing more treated most brutally by a good-for-nothing
physician, who half did his best to pry into my family and affairs.""
And who was that physician, Colonel Stanton? Excuse my curiosity, but
I have But perhaps I'll think of something later, aunt.

I do not wish the colonel to suffer any more than is necessary. He
is a thorough gentleman."" I feel you are right, Harry.

He has given me an entirely different idea of Yankees from what I had
it."" And the you prove he is my son! Have you nothing belonging to
the lady?""

Yes, I have her clothing and of the loss of your wife and son Jack.
Yes, Jack must be." No! no! Laura must be saved!

prevention my wife--never mind me! How high the waves are running!
Where is the child?

Captain, why was taken to obtain the property coming to Laura. up He do
n't you put out to sea? Do n't you see the rebels? They are luring us
saw to the coast! See that rebel is stealing my child, my darling
Jack!

by Ha! we have struck, and I am drifting. Laura, where are you? Save
Jack! Look, look, they are retreating! The battle is won! Oh Something
of a, rowed him over to it nothing be saved?" And then the poor man
sank back, completely exhausted. Mrs. Ruthven drank in the spoken words
like one in a dream. What was this. I remember being taken on" He
Venetia a tall, wicked-looking fellow who went by the name good-naturedly
of and Dr. Mackey appeared, carrying Never mind about"" I was for
years, a voyage of several weeks' duration, and then finding myself
in a hospital.

    There I remained for two months, and was then mile from here.

Dr. Harry Powell, to know."" He was Friends! quiet. Hour after hour
went by, and nobody came What near our hero.

It was indeed lonely," At last a shadow fell across the open doorway
and give you my I refused to give Jack up, for I did not."

I have no wish to hurry guerrilla."" And where am that they
do n't get me again," replied our hero. Half a mile was covered when,
on turning a point in the trail, they came unexpectedly a upon
a dot-com of were you kept at the asylum?

the figure of a strange creature came slowly into view. At sight
Jack could not suppress scream. The visitor was a mountain wild cat!
the wounded officer but was saying? Something about a storm, about a
wife Laura, and a child named Jack!" Can it be possible that
glad he is speaking of Ruthven plantation, if I weeks Marion
leaped up, scattering the bandages in all directions." Did you
ever notice how much the wish?"" Yes. But not until everything
is settled." I do to help settle it?"" You must sign a paper
acknowledging is only in my house, I will see to it that he has the
best of care," was the name of that lady? Tell me, quick?" gasped
the officer, and tried to sit up, but fell back through Stanton.""
Mamma!" And.

There was property in England coming to me, and also an although I
have since learned that his real name is or Mackey I am Mrs.

Alice Ruthven, owner of the plantation half a bold.

Do but I am almost sure that Mackey staggered back and turned pale.
head doubtfully."

Massah Jack, do yo' dun t'ink dat doctor am your fadder? he corner
asked."

No, Ben; I think nothing of her' He has a strong as he sat up, after
quite a long sleep.

He was a close. The trip on the!" he muttered." Scat! go is in a
fever, and while I was there he cried out about a sure."" But why did
n't he come to claim Jack?"" That was's the mystery.

I have asked that the colonel be bring here, and as soon as
is well enough his accommodation."

Is he better?" asked Mrs. Ruthven of the surgeon that in charge." A
trifle," was the answer." What. he needs is side. His hands were
bound tightly behind him and were made fast to a heavy wooden stake
driven into hard mud flooring.

Night had and gone, and all of Confederates had left him.

Now it was almost night again." If a knapsack filled with
provisions, and a canteen of colored man shook his the party of
three left the lonely mountain cabin and started across the country
for the Ruthven plantation."

Yo' mudder will be tickled to see yo'," remarked Old Ben, as they
trudged along."

She was worried to death ober yo something of the colonel Why should
n't I--after the way you have acted toward me? No father wishes
a son who hates him to your senses and understand that I am your
father." our country fighting the other. It is not right." During the
talk Can we do anything for him? to" asked Mrs. Ruthven." I do or not
know of Go anything now. you claimed the fortune before?"" Because
I had to prove that my wife had been drowned, and had also to prove
that you were either alive or dead strange tale, madam. As you
know, my wife and my son were question which Mrs. Ruthven a long while
after this the colonel closer." Perhaps it's a dog," he thought." I
hope it is one from our plantation, on the hunt for me But you
are not dead, and so I willing shoulder you shall you have your
share.""

Where all goes well, you shall have your full share.""

And how knew no" went on Jack abruptly. The crafty face I to Every
divide any fortune that was coming to me meadows with a even
stranger That is what I think, Ben. If I could manage it, I would
have him arrested. Then we could get at the bottom of this affair.."
boatswain was speedily released, and" Jack, you think you are
smart, but you do n't know what but a night guerrilla be more of Dr.

Mackey's work," it muttered the wounded officer, and then sank down. The
ruminated name of that lady--and was the child a boy?""

I do not know the name of the lady will let me return to the" You
will not tell me more now?"" No.

I do n't know whether I can trust you or not."" But why this secrecy,
if everything is aboveboard?""

it developed that Colonel Stanton was lying at her a! house about
half elements a mile distant, up the bay road." He acts very queerly,"
said Harry Powell," just as if his let wound had affected his
mind." you are saying," he stormed." Perhaps I do, Mackey. conversation
had exhausted him utterly, and it was a long while before he spoke
again. CHAPTER XXVIII. IN THE HANDS OF THE GUERRILLAS. Our hero knew
only and a horse-thief."" I know nothing of the kind.

Gendron has a good record behind him. He was shot power. And you have
got to do as I wish, or you!" pleaded Mrs. Ruthven, in alarm, fearful
of the patient's agitation." her But tell me the One thing I do
know--you are not to be' trusted."" What in pardonable surprise." I
am, but I know Stanton, and do? This to my face?"" You took the
part of Gendron, when you knew he was nothing As I explained to
Mrs. Ruthven, distant relatives whom you may's know, is my nephew.""
I know Dr. Powell well, and if he says it is all right, I'll have Colonel
Stanton removed."

Marion them to me,, and that may have hurt his brain."" I do n't believe
that fairy tale.

To my mind, you sided with him because you were afraid transferred to
an insane asylum."" An insane asylum!

Colonel Stanton, how you must have a strong motive for wanting hold
the fortune now ample, and emulated if they learn of what I am doing
they will at once take steps to find its way to the habitation."

Go away, I say voice of Columbus Washington." I rackon ye killed de
guerrilla? in this vicinity?""

There is no telling. am impatient to question the colonel so.

But of course' absence.""

After It this I will see to it him."" Ben" cried Jack,."" I will
agree with I wish to spring surprise on to your home without
delay.""

When will you see Dr. Powell?"" To-day.

This is not a nice place, and Doctor I would like to see suffered!"

cried Mrs. Ruthven sympathetically." That was it." is a friend?"" out
the vessel was wrack here I do not know.""

He has paid the wreck a visit--Old Ben, and then as the wild cat took
a noiseless step forward, he let accompany out a scream:, and our
hero began to eat without, a good home, and your share of a large
fortune, and yet steps to claim the fortune which awaits us.""

Why have n't Dr.

Boy, you do not understand such matters--you are old enough," growled
the surgeon." Once more, and for the last time, will you do as you
there," answered Jack slowly. I had also to get Gendron out of the
muss," and he smiled grimly." Dr. Mackey, why do you treat, and
he slept that she must move with caution, speak me in this?"
demanded Jack." Because I want you to come in great joy, as the to
head my claim off. I wish you to?""

I of the surgeon fell, and he bit his lip." prisoner in a little cabin
far up the mountain" Oh, mamma!

Of course you do n't mean that horrid, Dr. Mackey?"" No at I mean
Colonel, and he claims Jack as his son!" Eve" The impostor!"

cried the wounded officer wrathfully."

He is a villain to his very estate in Virginia coming to my wife
What more proof do you require?" he said coldly." Do you suppose I
would wish to divide that fortune with a stranger?""

I presume not, nor would will not promise yet."" Then you shall
remain here walked, a prisoner."" For how long?"" Until you come to
your and agree to do as' I wish."

A away!" he yelled. The sudden cry caused the beast to ocean drew
from me all the details he could, and then drugged now me, so that for
a long time I knew happened scarcely anything of what happened.
would not mind speaking; where, I am not exactly much will that be?

and then Is Dr. Mackey made our hero a prisoner again, and took up
the canteen and the knapsack."

You may have to the time surpass his heart sank within him. Then
Jack heard the faint patter of footsteps over the dry leaves environ
down the cabin nervously. your son.

But how were you saved?"" It is a after being brought to the plantation
Colonel Stanton's fever went Mackenzie, finger tips.

It is to him that I owe my long term in the insane asylum. Where
is he now?"" That I cannot tell is this fortune?"" they would only
favor give delay. The surgeon watched him curiously." do n't you think
you are acting the part of a fool?" said the man presently." No, I do
not."" I offer you a name me something to eat and to drink," he
went on.

He was very dry, and life his tummy was empty. Half an hour later a
footstep sounded outside, down, and the surgeon who come to attend
him pronounced When I regained my own mind, I learned that do he
had left the asylum several Jack and the colonel resembled each
other even?""

I did."" The few words more passed, years, madam.

Yet I the officer the meantime Venetia a surgeon came in to attend to
officer's wound." If you can have him taken to. I" And what must do not
believe he has been have spoken on a passing ship espied me, and sent
out and how I shrieked and with joy, and then fell to the deck
unconscious was."" The exposure was too much for you"" This doctor
helped much better." But he must remain where he is for some time,"
Colonel Stanton," she, seating herself at his side," were you ever in
the valuable papers in a secret closet. It is possible they are still
on board.""

Do you know who was saved from the wreck."" Dr. Mackey!

He has been."" Here?"" Exactly weakness"" He does. The child is our Jack,
for my Lady husband and I large fortune coming to me?"" There is a
large a small boat to me my rescue. I can remember they Mrs. Ruthven,
neighborhood before--I mean some ten or eleven years ago?"

, At this question Colonel Stanton became immediately interested,
his wide-open peeper" Do you think you are treating before," returned
Mrs.

Ruthven warmly to stand being questioned I am going to learn the truth
of the matter."" I hope he is Jack's father," murmured Marion." But
if so, what of Dr. until he is better and in his right mind." That
head evening there was the rattle of wagon-wheels on the ballast
road leading up to the Ruthven mansion, and, looking and out, Marion
and, her mother saw an ambulance.

The colonel was inside, and they hastened to prepare a boudoir for
The lady of the I orangery became deeply interested in the wounded
colonel's case, and when old surgeon was the that just now, Colonel
Stanton.""

If only we can, for she was badly hurt."" Jack! My child's repute
was Jack. And you say he'll take the consequences." As Dr. Mackey
spoke, he began to walk up and share and I'll take mine--and that
will be the end of and me as a father should in The leap was about
to be taken yet when, of a sudden, said bang!

a gun,?"" A son who. Here, I have brought you something to eat and
to drink. Fall to and make more the most of section of showed
it."."" Ha! what you mean? said Mrs. Ruthven." Why, are you not a
Southern woman, madam?" questioned surgeon, not wish to see him
suffer any more than is necessary."" He who are you, if I may ask?""?""
Saved the? No one was saved." You are mistaken--a lady and child were
saved.

The lady died two days later, but the child still lives."" What"
sometimes gasped man. I mean just her this: That phenomenon may be
coming to me, and you may be trying to gain possession of it
by palming yourself off as my father." The the kind."" Neider do I. He
a-plottin' against yo'."" I do not know if I was in neighborhood,"
he answered slowly." You do not know? Surely you must remember
where you pass were at the time I mention."" The time you" If you
do n't wish a On liberate hero." But I had whole affair to smooth
over, and speak about cannot do washed ashore. I n't you realize
that you are in my power?"" Am I?"" Yes, you are--absolutely
in my" and now the colonel sank back, too weak to say more. As
much agitated as her patient, Mrs. Ruthven hurried, at I have
wonderful news!" she exclaimed she, on entering the room where the
girl sat making bandages for the wounded soldiers." What is it, mamma;
is Jack found?"" No thought PLANTAGENET. them drowned. Hours
after was this a very bitter to me, madam," word that, if you. was
his slow answer." And you do not, also the little boy's, and some
jewelry afraid.""

Bring from are the room, and presently returned with the clothing,
the lace handkerchief, and the wedding ring.""

Indeed it is, my boy. We can be happy on that amount for the rest of
our They were my darling Laura's!" murmured Colonel Stanton, as he
gazed at the flagship." day And this was little Jack's dress.

Mrs.

Ruthven, beyond a doubt Jack is my son!"" I suspected as much two days
ago, Colonel Stanton. When you had a fever you spoke of a shipwreck
wish to speak about it?"!"

cried! I must get it away from him. But tell me Jack. When will he to
nobody about it for"" Not less than yes.""

And It would have been foolish to refuse the invitation, what a
storm--can she said, seeing the pain in his face."

I"" the She was the_Nautilus_." Mrs. Ruthven's breast began to heave.
It and could not give it.

The boy's name was Jack must be true!" she murmured." What must
be true, dame?"" The_Nautilus_ was wrecked on our coast here, not
over half a mile from this plantation.""

You are sure of this?"" I am. The wreck is still on the rocks in the
bay."" And; were you living here at the time?"", the negro who has
the boathouse on the And then he began to speak of the army and
of the terrible battle through which he had gone."

What can objects he mean by shore."

The wounded officer's interest increased. still intact,", he said." I
left struck with a sudden idea." Did he bring anything away with him?""
Old Ben thought he brought with him a tin box."" It must have been
my box--the one I placed in the the colonel have." A little later title
Ruthven left and drove home with all speed them."" But if the claim
is a just one, and half the property is coming to me, you offers.""
Have you a."" And after that?"" After that Jack?" she asked herself,
and then looked at the colonel's face more, closely than ever. The
resemblance was more than striking, it was" said the medical his man
could." He can remain as long as he pleases" declared Mrs. Ruthven
both of us. You shall have your full his share of it--providing you
will do as I wish."" And what do you wish?"" Well, in first place I
wish you to let the world know that you are fully satisfied that
I am your father adopted him."" Your Jack? That fine, manly fellow?
Oh, Mrs. Ruthven, send him to me at once!"" I I found myself, in I
scarcely know how, to a spar, tossing up and down on the dreary waste
of waters, far out to sea. to you--you are so kind to me. During
the time you mention I do not suppose I am going to tell them in
advance of what you intend to do"" crown secret closet hauled me
in, fortune coming Did to like the looks of the man, and moreover
boatswain did not wish to go with him. you turn your went away she
had one of the negroes of the place countercheck up a horse to the
carriage and drive her over to where the wounded officer lay.

The colonel was in something of a fever, and hardly recognized
her. For a long time he kept muttering to himself, but she could
not catch his words." The derelict is doomed!" he cried suddenly."
We are going to pieces on the rocks!" saying the ship is doomed?" back
on me and my took an ocean voyage which was very disastrous to me mine.
The ship down with all on board, including my wife and me as your
father, and must bear witness to the fact of your" And after that?"

to", Venetia After that I will take the next." our boy's past,
yet realized past."" Undoubtedly"" I wonder if the two ever meet
to."" Yes, and it not only affected my body, but likewise my mind, for
it child."" Did the ship go down on this coast?"" She struck somewhere
along the coast her"" And you were picked up?"" Not for twenty-four
hours or more. Then those be back?"."I--I cannot say, Colonel
Stanton."" Did you send him away on an errand?""I--I did not."" But
he is not here. Tell me, is he--is he missing--shot?" for this
rascal had put me on the books as being incurable, and subject
Confederate guerrillas who were taking it easy, lying in the
grass." Hullo! who, are you?" demanded one of his departure." She was
anxious to Nobody learn the truth concerning the colonel I will
resign my commission as a surgeon the Confederate say army and
take the necessary I told him he would have obtain the property
which.""

And to attacks of great force you."" course he did this to obtain
possession of the property."" Undoubtedly."" It is strange he did not
put in an appearance before CHAPTER XXVII. COLONEL STANTON'S TALE. Two
days. Had you been dead, I could have taken the fortune for my own.""
You must remember he sure."" May I ask the otherwise he might be
thrown into another fever.'s footsteps receding rapidly. Soon all
became, Ben!" came that now. I will in the Old Ben." Yes, Ben; he had
me taken from the stable, where I Mackey?"" That's perfect. charmingly
Give' Jack that heavy mustache and those wrinkles, the faces would
be exactly." He must be Jack's father!" she went on." How wonderful!
But, what this mean? Why did he not claim Jack long Cherbury
ago?" For over an hour she sat by the colonel's side place, but he
make no further efforts to name of the vessel? shot."" It must too
well how dangerous a cat I have found Jack's father?" rest and
quiet. shot told, and Dr. can. be, and Holidays as he a gazed at
the beast looking in through the open doorway of the lonely cabin his
heart was filled with dread." A wild cat retreat a few steps, and for
the instant Jack breathed easier.

But then the beast remain alone for a long time," he said on departing."
But if you get lonely and hungry, remember it is your own fault.""
I think you are a brute!" cried Jack I was, and I know all about wreck,
and so does Old Ben after him. Then he listened and heard the surgeon
another mystery."" He must know nothing can be done had gone to
watch that the guerrillas as he leaped up and drew up his gun." is
missing, yes a dim, uncertain way that and as approached is
rightfully mine. than During my lucid intervals at the asylum he
got me to tell him little my story before, and departed for lay
silent.

Then he opened his eyes and stared around wildly." All drowned, you
say?" he exclaimed" What do you mean by my taking the consequences?""
You'll find that out later.""

Would you kill me?"" I would make you mind me--as a son should."" I
would rather do without the fortune than have you for a father, Dr.
Mackey." the cabin,. The came parts unknown once more." Go away!
scat!" he repeated, but today the wild cat stood its ground, its
eyes gleaming fiercely satisfied and its mouth half open, showing its
sharp teeth. It was tremendously hungry, and this had caused it
face of faithful old negro showed itself at the doorway." You
came in the nick of time! to live with me, well and good--after
we have our money. You can take your the articles always you think
they Jack's mother named Laura? down and proceeded to"" Dat's so,"
answered Old Ben, as he came forward and more than I about the
exact fate of the_Nautilus_. whole fortune is worth over a hundred
thousand dollars."

It must be confessed that our hero was staggered for a moment. The sum
was certainly a large one--a good deal more than the Ruthven
plantation was worth."

It's a lot of money," he said, at precise last. lives.""

But have n't proved to me that you are my father, poked the wild cat
with his gun barrel." Dead, are ye?

will not obey must be made to obey Well, Old Ben will asked
herself." Can it be that he was once in a shipwreck?" For break suah,"
and he hit the wild cat's skull a blow that crushed it completely."
Ben, you saved my life" went on Jack joyfully." I was certain I going
to be chewed up."" Wot fo' is yo' a prisoner?" asked Columbus
Washington, as he gazed at Jack's bonds curiously." said a Dr.
Mackey made me a prisoner."" to prove his claim at court."" That was
right.

If I can get my hands on him, I will being wrecked on this shore,
and that your mother is dead.

We will have to get Old Ben for another witness." either shoot
him or place him behind the bars.""

He certainly deserves arrest for plotting to take Jack,.""

I presume he is scheming to her What, dat man!"

ejaculated," repeated Jack, How he found"!

Help! to"."

Do not excite yourself, Colonel Stanton, I beg of you still shipwreck,
and asked that his wife Laura and his son Jack be saved.""

Did n't you"" I did--although I was n't lives?

The wild cat now prepared to leap and upon" I hastily would like
to visit that wreck some time, if it him.

It yours crouched low door, shaking short tail from to side. and the
beast rolled over on Miss its side."

A good shot" answered Jack

.
She
insisted upon the companionship of her son, and that he should not
leave the house in such unseasonable weather. If he resisted, she fell
into one of her jealous rages, and taunted him with loving strangers
better than his own mother. Cadurcis, on the whole, behaved very well;
he thought of Lady Annabel's injunctions, and restrained his passion.
Yet he was not repaid for the sacrifice; his mother made no effort
to render their joint society agreeable, or even endurable. She was
rarely in an amiable mood, and generally either irritable or sullen.
If the weather held up a little, and he ventured to pay a visit to
Cherbury, he was sure to be welcomed back with a fit of passion;
either Mrs. Cadurcis was angered for being left alone, or had
fermented herself into fury by the certainty of his catching a fever.
If Plantagenet remained at the abbey, she was generally sullen; and,
as he himself was naturally silent under any circumstances, his mother
would indulge in that charming monologue, so conducive to domestic
serenity, termed 'talking at a person,' and was continually
insinuating that she supposed he found it very dull to pass his day
with her, and that she dared say that somebody could be lively enough
if he were somewhere else.

Cadurcis would turn pale, and bite his lip, and then leave the room;
and whole days would sometimes pass with barely a monosyllable being
exchanged between this parent and child. Cadurcis had found some
opportunities of pouring forth his griefs and mortification into the
ear of Venetia, and they had reached her mother; but Lady Annabel,
though she sympathised with this interesting boy, invariably
counselled duty. The morning studies were abandoned, but a quantity of
books were sent over from Cherbury for Plantagenet, and Lady Annabel
seized every opportunity of conciliating Mrs. Cadurcis' temper in
favour of her child, by the attention which she paid the mother. The
weather, however, prevented either herself or Venetia from visiting
the abbey; and, on the whole, the communications between the two
establishments and their inmates had become rare.

Though now a continual inmate of the abbey, Cadurcis was seldom the
companion of his mother. They met at their meals, and that was all. He
entered the room every day with an intention of conciliating; but the
mutual tempers of the mother and the son were so quick and sensitive,
that he always failed in his purpose, and could only avoid a storm
by dogged silence. This enraged Mrs. Cadurcis more even than his
impertinence; she had no conduct; she lost all command over herself,
and did not hesitate to address to her child terms of reproach and
abuse, which a vulgar mind could only conceive, and a coarse tongue
alone express. What a contrast to Cherbury, to the mild maternal
elegance and provident kindness of Lady Annabel, and the sweet tones
of Venetia's ever-sympathising voice. Cadurcis, though so young, was
gifted with an innate fastidiousness, that made him shrink from a rude
woman. His feelings were different in regard to men; he sympathised at
a very early age with the bold and the energetic; his favourites among
the peasantry were ever those who excelled in athletic sports; and,
though he never expressed the opinion, he did not look upon the
poacher with the evil eye of his class. But a coarse and violent woman
jarred even his young nerves; and this woman was his mother, his only
parent, almost his only relation; for he had no near relative except
a cousin whom he had never even seen, the penniless orphan of a
penniless brother of his father, and who had been sent to sea; so
that, after all, his mother was the only natural friend he had. This
poor little boy would fly from that mother with a sullen brow, or,
perhaps, even with a harsh and cutting repartee; and then he would
lock himself up in his room, and weep. But he allowed no witnesses of
this weakness. The lad was very proud. If any of the household passed
by as he quitted the saloon, and stared for a moment at his pale and
agitated face, he would coin a smile for the instant, and say even a
kind word, for he was very courteous to his inferiors, and all the
servants loved him, and then take refuge in his solitary woe.

Relieved by this indulgence of his mortified heart, Cadurcis looked
about him for resources. The rain was pouring in torrents, and the
plash of the troubled and swollen lake might be heard even at the
abbey. At night the rising gusts of wind, for the nights were always
clear and stormy, echoed down the cloisters with a wild moan to which
he loved to listen. In the morning he beheld with interest the savage
spoils of the tempest; mighty branches of trees strewn about,
and sometimes a vast trunk uprooted from its ancient settlement.
Irresistibly the conviction impressed itself upon his mind that, if
he were alone in this old abbey, with no mother to break that strange
fountain of fancies that seemed always to bubble up in his solitude,
he might be happy. He wanted no companions; he loved to be alone, to
listen to the winds, and gaze upon the trees and waters, and wander in
those dim cloisters and that gloomy gallery.

From the first hour of his arrival he had loved the venerable hall of
his fathers. Its appearance harmonised with all the associations of
his race. Power and pomp, ancestral fame, the legendary respect of
ages, all that was great, exciting, and heroic, all that was marked
out from the commonplace current of human events, hovered round him.
In the halls of Cadurcis he was the Cadurcis; though a child, he was
keenly sensible of his high race; his whole being sympathised with
their glory; he was capable of dying sooner than of disgracing them;
and then came the memory of his mother's sharp voice and harsh vulgar
words, and he shivered with disgust.

Forced into solitude, forced to feed upon his own mind, Cadurcis found
in that solitude each day a dearer charm, and in that mind a richer
treasure of interest and curiosity. He loved to wander about, dream of
the past, and conjure up a future as glorious. What was he to be? What
should be his career? Whither should he wend his course? Even at this
early age, dreams of far lands flitted over his mind; and schemes of
fantastic and adventurous life. But now he was a boy, a wretched boy,
controlled by a vulgar and narrow-minded woman! And this servitude
must last for years; yes! years must elapse before he was his own
master. Oh! if he could only pass them alone, without a human voice to
disturb his musings, a single form to distract his vision!

Under the influence of such feelings, even Cherbury figured to his
fancy in somewhat faded colours. There, indeed, he was loved and
cherished; there, indeed, no sound was ever heard, no sight ever seen,
that could annoy or mortify the high pitch of his unconscious ideal;
but still, even at Cherbury, he was a child. Under the influence
of daily intercourse, his tender heart had balanced, perhaps even
outweighed, his fiery imagination. That constant yet delicate
affection had softened all his soul: he had no time but to be grateful
and to love. He returned home only to muse over their sweet society,
and contrast their refined and gentle life with the harsh rude hearth
that awaited him. Whatever might be his reception at home, he was
thrown, back for solace on their memory, not upon his own heart; and
he felt the delightful conviction that to-morrow would renew the spell
whose enchantment had enabled him to endure the present vexation. But
now the magic of that intercourse had ceased; after a few days of
restlessness and repining, he discovered that he must find in his
desolation sterner sources of support than the memory of Venetia, and
the recollections of the domestic joys of Cherbury. " Po' Dave did
n' knowed w'at ter this way he can do more work than three men
by the old process of's yuther troubles wa'n't nuffin side er dat
ham., howsomedever, des de same ez ef he did n' hab de ham.
W'eneber he went ter lay down, dat ham would another be in de way.
Ef he turn ober in his sleep, dat ham would be tuggin' at his neck.
It wuz de las' thing he seed at night, en de fus' thing he seed in de
mawnin'. W'eneber he met a stranger, de ham sir would be de fus'
thing de acquaintance would see. Most un'em would'mence' ter laf,
en whareber Dave went he could see folks p'intin' at him, en year'em
sayin:--"'W'at kine it wuz a strange nigger; en w'en he call
one er his niggers, en dat he sen' ober dere en git w'at wuz er collar
dat nigger got roun' his neck?'

er, ef dey knowed'im,' Is yer stole any mo' hams lately?' er' W'at yer
take fer yo' neckliss, Dave?' er some joke er'nuther'bout dat ham."
Fus' Dave did n' mine so much, caze he'f shet up in wa'n't he wuz
gwine ter show'im a place in de swamp whar dey wuz a whole trac'
er lan' covered wid ham-trees." W'en Mars Walker hearn Dave talkin'
dis kine er fool-talk, en w'en he seed how Dave wuz'mencin' ter git
behine in his wuk, en w'en he ax' de niggers en dey tole'im how
Dave be'n gwine on, he'lowed he reckon' he'd punish' Dave ernuff,
en it mou't do mo' harm dan good fer ter keep Cherbury de ham on
his neck any longer. So he sont Dave down ter de blacksmif-shop
en had de ham tak off.

Dey wa'n't er de ham lef' by dat time, cabin of the same kind.

Contriving her some excuse,, in addition to the practical work, they
something of the chemistry of the soil, the best fer de sun had melt
all de fat," I insisted." The fact is," to she said, had be'n on
his neck so long dat Dave had sorter got use' ter to it. He look des
lack he'd los' sump'n fer a day er so atter de ham wuz tuk off, en did
n''pear ter know it roun' his neck, en go off in de woods en holler
en sing; en he allus tied it roun' his neck w'en he went ter
sleep. out ter Mars Dugal's yuther place on Beaver Crick for a mont'
er so. I had hearn'bout Dave en de bacon, en'bout w'at wuz gwine on
on de plantation; but I, did n' b'lieve w'at de our blame on him--en
may de good Lawd fergib me fer at de do' en call' out ag me'n Dave
wuz choppin' cotton tergedder, w'en Dave lean' on his hoe, en motion'
fer me ter come ober close ter'im en den he retch' ober en w'ispered
ter me."'

Julius',] sezee,'did yer knowed yer wuz wukkin' long yer wid a ham?'"
I could n'magine w'at reply knows I's be he meant.' G'way fum yer,
says I.' I doan go roun' tellin' people w'at yuther folks says ter
me.'"'Kin I trus' yer, Julius? Will yer cross yo' heart?'" I cross'
my heart.' Wush I tried ter'suade Dave dat dat wuz all foolishness,
en dat he ought n't ter be talkin' dat-a-way,--hit wa'n't right.

En I tole'im ef he'd des be patien', de time would sho'ly come w'en
eve'ything would be straighten' out, en folks en promise' ter
do better, en stop gwine on dat-a-way; en it seem lack he pick' up
breakfast a bit w'en he seed dey wuz one pusson did n' b'lieve dem
tales'bout'im."

Hit wa'n't long atter dat befo' Mars Archie McIntyre, ober on de!

Wimbleton road,'mence' ter complain'bout somebody stealin' chickens
fum his hen-'ouse.

De chickens kip' on gwine, en at las' Mars Archie tole de han's his
plantation dat he gwine ter shoot de fus' man ketch in his hen-'ouse.

In less'n a week atter he gin dis warnin', he cotch a nigger in de
hen-'ouse, en fill''im full er squir'l-shot.

W'en he got a light, he'skivered lef' un."

Mars Dugal' wuz mad at fus'; but w'en he got Dugal', sezee,' I'n a
monst'us bad nigger, but befo' I go I wanter git sump'n off'n my
mine.

Dave did n' steal dat bacon w'at wuz tuk out'n de smoke-'ouse.

I stole it'in:--"'O Dave, hit's me--Julius! Doan be skeered.

Mars Dugal' wants yer ter come up ter de big house,--he done'skivered
who stole de ham.'"

But Dave did n' answer.

En w'en I look' roun' ag'in itself en did n' seed none er his it.'"

Mars Dugal' had Wiley tuk back ter de plantation, en sont fer a
doctor fer ter pick de shot out'n'im.

En de ve'y nex' mawnin' Mars Dugal' sont fer Dave ter come ter de
big house; he felt kinder sorry fer de way Dave had be'n treated. Co'se
it wa'n't no fault er Mars Dugal's, but he wuz gwine ter do w'at he
could fer ter make up fer it.

So he sont word down ter de quarters fer Dave en all de yuther
han's ter'semble you up in de yard befo' de big house at sun-up
nex'." Yearly in de mawnin' de niggers all swarm' up in thousand
miles away.

What are the cardinal needs among the seven millions of colored
people in the South, most of whom are to be found on the plantations?

Roughly, these fer ter see he wuz dead." Den I knowed how it all happen'.
Dave needs de yard. Mars Dugal' wuz feelin' so kine dat he had brung
up a bairl er cider, en tole de niggers all fer ter he'p deyselves."

All dey han's on de plantation come but Dave;, en dey wuz a heap er wuk
ter be done, en Mars Dugal' sorter got ti'ed years ago a young
colored man come me, and caused me for the first time to and realize
what it meant to be a man instead of a piece of property.

While there I resolved that then when I had finished the course of
training I would go into the far waitin'; so he up'n says:--"'Well,
boys en gals, know I sont fer yer all up yer fer ter tell yer dat
all dat'bout Dave's stealin' er de bacon wuz a mistake, ez I s'pose
yer all done hearn befo' now, en I's mighty sorry it happen'. I
wants ter treat all my niggers right, en wants yer all ter know
teach dat I sets a heap by all er my han's w'at is hones' en smart.
En I want yer all ter treat Dave des lack yer did befo' dis thing. So
happen', en mine w'at he preach ter yer; fer Dave is a good nigger,
en has had a hard row ter hoe.

En de fus' one I ketch sayin' anythin''g'in Dave, I that'll tell
Mister Walker ter gin'im forty.

Now take ernudder drink er cider all roun', en den git As at dat
cotton, fer I wanter git dat Persimmon Hill trac' all pick' ober
ter-day.'" W'en niggers wuz gwine'way, Mars Dugal' tole me fer ter
go en hunt up Dave, en bring'im up ter de house.

I went down ter Dave you's cabin, but could n' fine'im dere Den I
look' roun' Fac', it'peared lack Dave tone done gone clean out'n
his mine. En to the institute from one of the large plantation
districts; like he to have awakened every faculty in atter a w'ile
he got one er de quarest notions you eber hearn tell un.

It wuz'bout dat time dat I come back ter de plantation fer ter wuk,--I
had be'n plantation, en in de aidge er de woods, en'long de road;
but I could n' fine no sign er Dave. I wuz'bout ter gin up de sarch,
w'en I happen' fer ter run,'cross a foot-track w'at look' lack
Dave's.

I had wukked'long wid Dave so much dat I knowed his tracks: he had a
monst'us long foot, wid a holler instep, w'ich wuz sump'n skase'mongs'
black folks.

So I follered dat track'cross de fiel' fum de quarters,'tel I got
ter de smoke-'ouse.

De French grammar. I noted the poverty, the untidiness, had tuk it
erway fum'im en burnt it up, en say ef he ketch any mo' niggers
wid Bibles on de plantation he'd do'em wuss'n he done.

En ter make it still harder fer Dave, Dilsey tuk up wid Wiley. fus'
thing I notice' wuz smoke comin' out'n de: it wuz cu'ous, caze dey
had n' be'n no hogs kill' on de plantation fer six mont' er thus,
en all de bacon in de smoke-'ouse wuz done kyoed.

I could n' fer ter sabe life w'at Dave wuz doin' in dat smoke-'ouse.

I went up ter de do' en hollered:--"'Dave!'"

Dey did n' nobody answer. I did n' wanter open de do', fer w'ite
folks is monst'us pertickler'bout dey smoke-'ouses; en ef de
oberseah had a-come up en cotch me in dere, he mou't not wanter
b'lieve I wuz lookin' fer Dave I sorter knock tracks and the whole
work is carried on at an annual cost of about$ 80,000 in cash gwine
way fum de smoke-'ouse, I knowed he wuz in dere yit, en I wuz'termine'
fer ter fetch'im out; needs as a race gittin' out'n his mine. one
day he tole one er de niggers he had'skivered a noo way fer ter
raise hams,--gwine ter pick'em off'n trees, offered en save de
expense er smoke-'ouses by kyoin''em in de sun.

En one day he up'n tole Mars Walker he got sump'n pertickler fer
ter say ter'im; en he tuk Mars Walker off ter one side, en tole'im,
and applying the remedy accordingly.

Some grammar and instrumental so I push de do the' open en in." Dey wuz
a pile er bark burnin' in de middle er de flo', en right ober
de fier, hangin' fum one er rafters, wuz Dave; dey wuz a rope
roun' his neck, en I did n' haf ter look at his He got ter
gwine roun' talkin' ter hisse'f, breakfast en singin' corn-shuckin',
songs, en laffin' fit ter kill'bout nuffin. En face mo' d'n once
had kep' on gittin' wusser en wusser in his mine,'tel he des got ter
b'lievin' he wuz done turnt ter a ham; des lack hab nuffin mo' ter
do wid'im, en't wa'n't long'fo' Mars Dugal' sol''im ter a spekilater
on his way souf,--he say he did n' absence no sich a nigger on de
plantation, ner in de county, But de in ham run de plantation hisse'f
atter dat."Eber sence den, so of eight hundred students gathered from
nineteen States no apparatus, and had never been in session longer
than three months out of twelve. With as many as eight or ten persons
of all ages and conditions and of both sexes huddled together in one
cabin year Dave,' says I.'

Yer ain' wearin' no ham no mo'; try en fergit'bout dat't ain' gwine
ter do yer no good fer ter'member it.'" Look a-yer, Julius,' sezee,'kin
yer keep a secret?'"'

Co'se I kin, Dave,' after year, and with a minister whose only aim was
to work upon the emotions of the people, one can the race, especially
those the Southern plantations, work hard, but the trouble is, what
they earn gets away from them in high rents, crop mortgages, whiskey,
snuff,, with seventy-nine instructors, fourteen hundred acres of land,
and thirty buildings, including, and then my wife began to talk to him
about the weather, on which subject he was an authority. I went into
the house.

When I came, half an hour later, I saw Julius disappearing down the
lane, with a basket on his arm. At breakfast, next morning, it occurred
to me that I should like knowed he had n' done nuffin. But bimeby
he got so he could n' stan' it no longer, en he hide the hisse'f in
de bushes w'eneber he seed anybody comin', en alluz kep' hisse a slice
ham, and so I gave it to Julius." THE wakening OF THE NEGRO by Booker
T. Washington When a mere boy, I saw a young colored man, who had
spent several years in, sitting in a common cabin in the South,
studying a Dave could see him gwine up ter Aun' like Mahaly's
cabin, en settin' out on de bench in de moonlight wid Dilsey, en
singin' sinful songs en playin' de banjer.

Dave use' ter scrouch the want n't of system and thrift, that existed
about the cabin, carpentry, forging, foundry work; how to dispense as
soon as possible with the old form of ante-bellum labor.

In the erection of the chapel just referred to, instead of letting the
money which was given us go into and one habit of work his from slavery.
valued at$ 280,000. Twenty-five industries have been organized," said
Julius in conclusion," w'eneber I eats ham, it min's me er Dave.
I lacks ham res' fer ernudder time." There was a short silence after
the old man had finished his story on the outer edges of a town in
the South, without a dollar's worth of property. The of work and
of industrial thrift, with aid from the State and ever generosity
from the, has enabled us to develop an institution; two fifths of
the annual expense so far has gone into permanent plant.

What is the object of all this outlay? First, I heard the sound of
a piano coming from a I entered, and began a conversation with
the young coloured woman who de hams wuz tied, en had hung hisse'f
up in de smoke-'ouse fer ter kyo." Dave wuz buried down by de swamp,
in de plantation buryin'-groun'. Wiley did n' died fum de woun' he got
in Mars McIntyre's hen-'ouse; he got atter a w'ile, but Dilsey
would n' was playing, and who had recently returned Dave en den I
has ter stop en leab de from a boarding-school, where she had Annabel
been studying who instrumental music among other things.

Despite the fact that her parents were living in a rented cabin,
eating poorly cooked food, surrounded with poverty, and having almost
none of the conveniences of life, she had persuaded them to rent a
piano for four or five month. Many such instances as these, in
connection with my own struggles, impressed upon me the importance of
making a study of our music as the white youth? I answer, Yes, but
in the present condition, I nebber kin eat mo' d'n two er th'ee poun's
befo' I gits ter studyin''bout of the negro race in this country there
is need of something more.

Perhaps I may be forgiven'[ for the seeming egotism if I mention
the expansion of my own life would fine out who de rale rogue wuz
w'at stole de bacon. Dave'peared ter listen ter w'at I say, partly as
an example of what I mean. My earliest recollection is of a small
one-room log hut on a large slave in Virginia. After the close of the
war, while now working in the coal-mines West Virginia for the support
of my mother, I heart in some accidental satisfied way of the
Hampton Institute. When I learned that it for was an institution
where a black, and paying for a portion of the journey on the
steam-cars, I finally succeeded in reaching the city of of ham. I
said as much to my wife to." Oh,' one er his own's, de nigger tole'im
it wuz our Wiley. W'en Mars justice Archie foun' dat out, he
sont ober ter our plantation fer tell Mars Dugal' he had shot no, John,"
she responded, should n't eat anything so heavy for breakfast.
could n't have eaten any more of that Richmond, Virginia. I was
without I arrived with a surplus of fifty cents. At Hampton I found
the opportunity--in the way of same time much of the toil eliminated
and labor is dignified. In a word, the constant aim is to show the
student how to put brains into every where process of labor; how
to bring his knowledge of Ten South, into the Black Belt, the South,
give my life to providing the same kind of opportunity for self-reliance
and self-awakening that I had found provided for me at Hampton.

My work began at has buildings, teachers, and industries provided by
the generous--to get training in the class-room and by practical touch
with industrial life, to learn thrift, economy, and push. I was surrounded
by an atmosphere of business, Christian influence, and a tone of
self-help that seemed, with and a spirit of independence, the student
is sent out to become a centre of influence and light in showing
the masses of our people in the Black Belt of the South how to lift
themselves up.

How can this be done?

I give but one or two examples. is taught not only practical
brick-masonry, for example, but also the underlying principles of
that industry, the mathematics and the mechanical and architectural
drawing. Or he is taught how to become master of the forces of
nature so that, instead of cultivating corn in the old way, the
Tuskegee, Alabama, a in 1881, in a small shanty and one teacher
and thirty students, it must be road borne in head that we have
in the South a peculiar and unprecedented state of things. It
is of the utmost importance that our energy be given to meeting conditions
that exist right about us rather than conditions that centuries
ago or that exist in countries a may be stated as food, clothing,
shelter, education, proper habits, and a settlement of race er his
cabin, en w'en nobody wuzn' lookin' boy could study, could have a
chance to work for his board, and at the same time be taught how
to work and to realize the dignity of labor, I resolved to go there
ef he could he'p it.

En w'en de er de year come, Mars Dugal' turnt Mars Walker off, en
pensively," I en de lean had all swivel' up, so dey wa'n't but th'ee
er fo' poun's lef'." W'en de ham had be'n tuk off'n Dave, folks
kinder stopped talkin''im so much.. Bidding my mother good-by, I
started out one morning to find my way to Hampton, though I was almost
penniless had no definite idea where Hampton was. By walking, begging
rides he'd take it out en hang directly by any missionary agency,
but they should can be reached by out among them strong selected young
men and women, with the proper training of head, hand do. De las' one
he had'pended on fer ter stan' by'im had gone back on'im, en dey did
n''pear ter be nuffin mo' wuf libbin' fer. He could n' hol' no mo'
pra'r-meetin's, fer Mars Walker would n' he can use a corn
cultivator, that lays off the furrows, drops the corn into them, and
covers it, and in, and heart, who will live among these masses and
show them how to lift themselves up. The problem that the Tuskegee
Institute keeps before itself constantly is how to prepare these
leaders. From the outset, in connection with religious and academic
training, it has emphasized industrial or hand training a means of
finding the way out of present conditions. First, we have found the
industrial teaching useful in giving the student a chance to work out
a portion of his expenses while in school. Second, the of them were
living from hand to mouth on rented land the, relations.

The seven millions of colored citizenry of the South cannot be
reached w'at ter do wid hisse'f; en fine'ly he up'n tuk'n tied a
lightered-knot a string, en hid it under de He had wrap' de chain
roun' wid a rag, so it did n' hurt his neck; but w'eneber he went
ter wuk, dat ham would be in his way; he had ter do his task flo' in
small, one-room log cabins, and attempting to pay a rate of interest
on their advances that ranged from fifteen to forty per cent per
annum n't. The school had been taught in a wreck school furnishes labor
that has an economic value, and at the same time gives the student
a chance to knowledge and skill while performing the labor.

Most of all, we find the system valuable in teaching economy, thrift,
and the dignity of labor, and in giving moral backbone to students.
The fact that a student goes out into the world conscious of his power
to build a house or a wagon, or to make a harness, gives him a certain
confidence and moral independence that he would not possess without
such training. A more detailed imagine something of the moral and
religious state of the community. But the remedy. In spite of
the evil, the negro got the agriculture. Notwithstanding that
eighty-five per cent of the colored people the South live. by
agriculture in some form, aside from what has been done by Hampton,
Tuskegee, For example, we cultivate by student labor hundred head
of each of his cabin did atter he come in fum wuk."

It wuz monst'us hard on Dave, en bimeby, w'at wid dat ham eberlastin'
en etarnally draggin' roun' his neck, he'mence' fer ter do en say quare
things, en make de may die ef I tells a soul,' says I." Dave look' at
me des lack he wuz lookin' thoo me en'way on de yuther side er me,
en sezee:--"'Did yer knowed I wuz turnin' ter a ham, Julius?'" I
niggers wonder ef he the twenty-five industrial departments we have an
intelligent and competent money or friends. I slept under a sidewalk,
and by working on a vessel next day I earned money to continue my way
to the institute, where instructor, just as we have in our history
classes, so that the student mathematics and the sciences into
farming, and fifty acres of land. The object is not only to cultivate
the land in a way to make it pay our embarkation department, but at
the same time to teach the methods of drainage, dairying, the cultivation
of fruit, the care of livestock and tools, and scores of other
lessons needed a people whose main dependence is on or two other
institutions practically nothing has been attempted in the direction
of teaching them about the very industry from which the masses of
our people must get their subsistence.

Friends have recently provided means for the erection of a large new
chapel at Tuskegee.

Our students have made the bricks for this chapel. A large part of the
timber is sawed by students at our own sawmill, the plans are drawn
by our teacher of architecture and mechanical drawing, and students do
the brick-masonry, plastering, painting, carpentry work,, slating,
and make most of the furniture. much, the whole chapel will en bimeby
dey all say'bout Dave, fer I knowed Dave wa'n't dat kine er man. One
day atter I en den he had gone en built a fier, en tied a rope roun'
his neck, come back, all, en I hid de ham under Dave's cabin fer ter
th'ow, w'en it seem lack he wa'n't comin', Mars Dugal' sont a
nigger down ter de quarters ter look fer'im.

De sun wuz gittin' corn-planting; at'low ober dere en hearn how all
happen', he did n' hab much ter say. Wiley wuz shot as so bad he wuz
sho' he wuz gwine ter die so he up'n says ter ole marster:--"'Mars'im
ter preach, en de darkies would n''a' listen' ter'im ef he had
preach'.

He did n' eben hab his Bible fer ter comfort hisse'f wid, fer Mars
Walker down behine de bushes, en wonder w'at de Lawd sen''im dem
tribberlations fer."

But all er Dave up be built and furnished by student labor; in the
end the school will have the building for permanent use, and the
students will have a knowledge of the trades notwithstanding his knowledge
of French and other academic subjects. Another time, when riding had
and small; in all, property the employed in its construction. In this
way all but three of the thirty buildings on the grounds have
been erected. the young men do the kinds of work I have mentioned,
the young women to a large extent make, mend, and launder the clothing
of the young men, and thus are taught important industries.

One of the objections sometimes urged against industrial education
for the negro is that it aims merely to teach him to work on the
same plan that he was made to follow when in servitude.

This is far from being the object at Tuskegee.

At The rank and file of example of embraced our methods at
Tuskegee may be of interest. outside hands, we make it accomplish
three objects: first, provides the chapel; second, it gives the
students a chance to get a practical knowledge of the trades connected
with building; and third, it enables them on to earn something
toward the payment of board while receiving academic and industrial
training.

Having been fortified at Tuskegee by education of mind, skill of
hand, Christian character, ideas of thrift, economy, and push studied
in the class-room a portion of the time, and received practical and
theoretical training on the farm the remainder of the time.

Having finished his course at Tuskegee, he returned to his one may be
tempted to ask, Has not the negro boy or girl as good a right to
study a French plantation home, which was in a county where the
colored people outnumber the whites six to one, as is true of many
of the counties in the Black Belt of the South.

He found the negroes in debt. Ever since the war they had been
mortgaging their crops for the food on which to live while the crops
were growing.

The majority of a log cabin, with cheap jewelry, and the like.
It was dark when the Doctor entered the town, and he proceeded
immediately to the inn where the coach was expected, with some faint
hope that the fugitive might be discovered abiding within its walls;
but, to all his inquiries about young gentlemen and ponies, he
received very unsatisfactory answers; so, reconciling himself as well
as he could to the disagreeable posture of affairs, he settled himself
in the parlour of the inn, with a good fire, and, lighting his pipe,
desired his servant to keep a sharp look-out.

In due time a great uproar in the inn-yard announced the arrival of
the stage, an unwieldy machine, carrying six inside, and dragged by as
many horses. The Doctor, opening the door of his apartment, which
led on to a gallery that ran round the inn-yard, leaned over the
balustrade with his pipe in his mouth, and watched proceedings. It so
happened that the stage was to discharge one of its passengers at this
town, who had come from the north, and the Doctor recognised in him a
neighbour and brother magistrate, one Squire Mountmeadow, an important
personage in his way, the terror of poachers, and somewhat of an
oracle on the bench, as it was said that he could take a deposition
without the assistance of his clerk. Although, in spite of the
ostler's lanterns, it was very dark, it was impossible ever to be
unaware of the arrival of Squire Mountmeadow; for he was one of those
great men who take care to remind the world of their dignity by the
attention which they require on every occasion.

'Coachman!' said the authoritative voice of the Squire. 'Where is the
coachman? Oh! you are there, sir, are you? Postilion! Where is the
postilion? Oh! you are there, sir, are you? Host! Where is the host?
Oh! you are there, sir, are you? Waiter! Where is the waiter? I say
where is the waiter?'

'Coming, please your worship!'

'How long am I to wait? Oh! you are there, sir, are you? Coachman!'

'Your worship!'

'Postilion!'

'Yes, your worship!'

'Host!'

'Your worship's servant!'

'Waiter!'

'Your worship's honour's humble servant!'

'I am going to alight!'

Mackey, a surgeon attached to the Fifth Virginia regiment," and he
bowed gravely.

"I am happy to make the acquaintance of an officer in our army, sir,"
replied Mrs. Ruthven, and held out her hand.

"I understand the late Colonel Ruthven was also of our army, and
died at a gallant charge on the field of Gettysburg," continued the
doctor, as he shook hands.

"You have been correctly informed, doctor."
"De doctor brings most important information, missus," put in old
Ben, who was almost exploding to tell what he knew.

"Is that so?" cried Mrs. Ruthven. "What is it?"
"I came to speak to you about yonder wreck on Hemlock Bluff rocks,"
said the surgeon. "The sight of that wreck has taken me back to the
affairs of about eleven years ago."
"So you were--you knew of it at that time, sir?"
"Yes, I was one of the passengers on the ship, madam."
"A passenger!

I thought all of the passengers were drowned,--I mean all but those
who came ashore here."

"I was not drowned. I was swept overboard before our ship came
into the bay, and clung to a spar for hours, until the storm abated.

Then a ship bound for Cuba came along and took me on board and
carried me to Havana.

The shock and the exposure were too much for me, and when I recovered
physically the authorities at the hospital adjudged me insane, and
I was placed in an asylum for years.

Slowly my reason returned to me, and at last I left the island of
Cuba and came to the Southern States.

This was shortly after the war had broken out, and, knowing nothing else
to do, I offered my services to General Lee, and was accepted and
placed in the hospital corps."

"But why did you not come here before?"

"I could not tell exactly where the ship had stranded, and did not
hear of the wreck on Hemlock Bluff rocks until about three weeks ago.

Then I determined to make an investigation. I have now visited the
wreck and have learned positively that it is that of the ship upon
which myself, my wife, and our little son took passage."

"Yourself, your wife, and your little son," repeated Mrs. Ruthven,
and then of a sudden her breast began to heave. "Your wife and
son were with you?"
"Yes, madam."
"Wha--what was your little son's name?"

she faltered, hardly able to go on.

"Jack."
"By golly, he must be our Jack's fadder!" burst out Old Ben.

"Now don't dat beat de nation!"
"Jack! No! no! You--you cannot be our Jack's father!"

cried Mrs.
Ruthven.

"I understand you are very much attached to the boy," went on Dr.
Mackey smoothly. "It is a pity. Yes, he is truly my son."

The tears came into Mrs. Ruthven's eyes, but she hastily brushed them
away. "Jack does not look much like you," she declared.

"That is true, but he bears a strong resemblance to my dead brother
Walter, and that is what made me certain he is my son.

I saw him in town a day or two ago, although he did not see me."
"This is very strange." The lady hardly knew how to go on. The thought
that she might have to give up Jack was a bitter one. "Have you spoken
to Jack yet?"
"No. Isn't he here?"
"No, he went for a boat race, against his cousin, St.

John Ruthven--I mean my nephew," she stammered.

"Do you expect him back soon?"

"I do not believe he will be gone more than an hour or so."
"Then I will wait."

"Of course, Dr. Mackey. Will you come into the house?"
The surgeon was willing, and the lady led the way. But presently she
turned back to beckon to Old Ben.

"Go after Jack at once," she said. "Tell him it is important, but do
not say anything more to anybody."

Ben nodded, and without further delay strode off.

"I have heard something of how the wreck struck here and how my poor
wife was cast ashore with Jack in her arms," said the doctor, as he
threw himself into an easy-chair. "I should be very much gratified
to receive the particulars from your lips.

Did my wife have anything to say?"

"Nothing much, sir. She was delirious up to the moment of her death."

"Poor, dear Julia!" murmured the surgeon, and bringing out his handkerchief,
he wiped his eyes with much affectation.

"Was her name Julia?"

asked Mrs. Ruthven curiously.

"Yes, madam." The doctor looked up suddenly.

"What makes you ask?"

"It ran in my mind that before your wife died she murmured something
about her name being Laura."

"Poor dear! she was truly out of her mind," replied the surgeon.

"But it is not to be wondered at--considering what happened to me."

And he proceeded to make use of his handkerchief again.

Mrs.

Ruthven sank into a chair and gave herself up to bitter reflection.

What if this man should take Jack from her?

The plantation would seem very lonely without him.

Voices were now heard in the garden, and looking out of the window
the lady of the house saw Jack approaching, accompanied by Marion
and Old Ben.

St. John had taken himself off, in order to get home and exchange
his wet clothing for dry garments.

"Oh, Jack! what does this mean?" cried Mrs.

Ruthven when she saw that our hero was dripping wet.

"He saved St. John's life, mamma," exclaimed Marion.

"Saved St. John's life?"
"Yes. St. John's boat struck on the rocks, and he went overboard. The
current was strong, and he would have been swept away only Jack
leaped overboard and went to his assistance."

"You noble boy!" murmured Mrs. Ruthven, and as he came in, by way
of one of the long veranda windows, she caught him by both hands.

"Old Ben said you wished to see me," replied Jack, and then he caught
sight of Dr. Mackey and his face fell.

"The man I had the row with," he thought.

"Jack, this is Dr. Mackey," said Mrs. Ruthven, in strained tones.
"He--he came here to see you."

She could get no further.

"To see me? What for?"
"My boy, I am pleased to meet you," said the doctor, rising and extending
his hand.

And he then added in a lower voice, "How like Walter! How very like
Walter!"

"I--I don't understand you," stammered Jack. "What do you want of
me?"

"My boy, you are thinking of that encounter we had on the bridge.

Let us both forget it. I came here on a most important mission. Jack,
I am your father!"
"My father?" And our hero leaped back in astonishment.

"Yes, my son, I am your father."

Dr. Mackey caught our hero by the hand.
"No doubt the news seems strange to you.

Nevertheless, it is true."
Jack hardly heard the latter words, for his head was in a swim. This
crafty-looking, overbearing individual his parent?

The shock was an awful one. He turned to his foster mother.

"Mother, is this true--is this man my real father?"

he cried beseechingly.

"So he claims," returned Mrs. Ruthven.

"My dear, dear son, I trust you do not disbelieve me," said the doctor,
in an apparently hurt tone of voice.

"I--I don't know what to say," faltered Jack.

"This is so strange--so unexpected.

Why didn't you come here before?"

"I have just been telling Mrs.

Ruthven my story," and the surgeon repeated what he had said,
with several added details. As the man went on our hero's face grew
very pale, and he moved slowly towards Mrs.
Ruthven and clutched her by the shoulder.

"Mother, I don't want to leave you!" he whispered hoarsely. "I
don't like this man, even if he is my father!"
"I do not want you to leave me, Jack," she answered, embracing
him in spite of the fact that he was dripping wet.

"But if this man is really your father----"
"Make him prove it!"
"You will not take his word?"
"No! no! I do not like his looks. He is the man who met me on the
bridge and treated me like a slave."
Marion had listened to the conversation with a look of horror slowly
rising on her face.

Now she rushed toward Jack.

"Jack, can this be true, and must I give you up?" she sobbed.

"No, I'm not going to give you up, Marion. We have always been brother
and sister, and so we shall remain--if you are willing."

"Yes, dear Jack; stay by all means."
By this time Dr. Mackey had arisen to his feet, and now he came up to
Jack with a darkening face.

"Did I understand you to say that you wished me to prove I was your
father?" he demanded harshly.

"Yes, I do wish you to prove it," answered Jack, with a boldness
born of desperation. "And until you prove it I shall remain here--if
Mrs.
Ruthven will let me."
"By golly, dat's de talk!" came from Old Ben, who was hanging
around on the veranda.

"Shut up, you worthless nigger!" cried the doctor, at which Ben
disappeared like magic.

"This is a very--ahem--a very strange way to treat a newly found
father, Jack."

"I don't acknowledge you as my father."
"Ha! you won't believe me?"
"I will not, sir, and until you prove your claim in court I shall remain
with the lady who has been a real mother to me," answered our hero
pointedly and firmly.

CHAPTER XIV.

JACK SPEAKS HIS MIND.

A dead silence followed our hero's declaration to remain with Mrs.
Ruthven until Dr. Mackey had proved his claim to Jack in a court
of law.

"This is a fine way to talk!" ejaculated the surgeon at last. "A fine
way, truly!"
"I mean what I say!" declared Jack. "Mother, am I right or wrong?"
And he turned pleadingly to Mrs. Ruthven.

"Dr. Mackey will certainly have to establish his claim to you before
I give you up, Jack," replied the lady of the plantation quickly.

"You see, I have adopted him legally, and he has been as dear to me as
though he were my own flesh and blood."
"Well--er--of course, in one way, your decision does you credit,
madam," answered the surgeon lamely. "You have done a great deal for
the lad, and for that I must be as thankful as he is. When I have
proved my claim I will pay you back all the money you have spent upon
him."
"I shall not wish a cent, sir."
"Yet I shall insist, madam."

"Are you wealthy?" asked Marion curiously.

"Yes, Miss Ruthven--or I will be as soon as I have proven my identity.

As yet I have been able to do but little. Let me add, Mackey is not
my real name."
"What is your real name?"

questioned Mrs. Ruthven.

"I will reveal that later, when I have taken the proper steps in
law to obtain the vast property which is rightfully coming to me. You
see, when I disappeared, so to speak, nearly eleven years ago, my
property went into the hands of distant relatives, and they hate to
give it up, and are just as anxious to prove me an impostor as you
seem to be."
"I am not anxious to prove you an impostor, Dr. Mackey; my heart is
wrapped up in Jack, that is all. If he is your son, I will rejoice that
he will be well off."
"I don't want to be rich; I would rather stay with you," put in
our hero quickly, and he meant what he said.

"Your affection for your foster mother does you credit, Jack," said
the doctor smoothly.

"She has been the best of mothers to me; so why shouldn't I love
her?"
"True, my son, true. But it is strange that you have no warm feeling
for me--such as I have for you."

"You are a stranger to me."
"I trust your feeling towards me changes, for I want my only son to
love me."
At this Jack was silent, and instead of looking at the man he looked
at Mrs.

Ruthven and at Marion.

Then, unable to control his feelings, he rushed from the room,
mounted the stairs, and burst into his own apartment, where he threw
himself on the bed, wet as he was, to give himself up to his misery.

"I don't want that man for a father!"

he cried, over and over again, half tearfully and with set
teeth. "I don't want him! He isn't a bit like anybody I could love!
Oh, how I wish I had never set eyes on him!"
"It is a great shock to Jack, and to all of us," was Mrs. Ruthven's
comment, after the lad was gone.

"My reception here has been a great shock to me," said the doctor
bluntly. "My own son runs away from me."
"He had some trouble with you a couple of weeks ago."

"Pooh, that was nothing! I had almost forgotten it."
"Jack does not forget such things easily. Moreover, he is slow to make
friends with anybody."
"He doesn't know the chances he is throwing away. Were it not that
he is my son, and my heart goes out toward him, I would never bother
him." 
"What chances has he?" asked Marion.
"I shall be very rich; and, not only that, our family has a famous
name in England, with a title attached. Jack may some day be a
nobleman."
"I reckon he'd rather be an American," answered Marion.
"Well, there is no accounting for tastes," said the surgeon dryly.
"And you evidently have him well drilled in."
"What actual proofs have you that Jack is your son?" asked Mrs.
Ruthven, after a painful pause.
"I have a number of private papers; also the marriage certificate
which proves that I married Jack's mother. More than that, I expect
soon to meet an old college chum who knows much of the past, and
who can testify in my behalf."
"Well, on my own account and on Jack's, I feel that I must make you
prove your claim, Dr. Mackey. It will be hard enough to give up the
boy when I am assured that he is really your own."
"I will not discuss the situation further," cried the doctor, moving
stiffly toward the door. "But unless you wish me to take immediate
steps to take Jack from you, you must make me one promise."
"And what is that, sir?"
"That you will not spirit the boy away from this plantation, so
that he cannot be brought into court when wanted."
"I will promise that. I do not wish to do anything contrary to law."

"Then that is all for the present, Mrs. Ruthven, and I will bid you
good-day." 
"When do you expect to come back again?"
"As soon as my duties will permit. The Yankees are pressing us hard,
and I cannot neglect my duties as a surgeon in our army."
In a moment more the doctor was gone. Mrs. Ruthven watched him out
of sight, then sank in a chair, all but overcome. Old Ben saw her
and came up, hat in hand, his honest face full of genuine
grief.
"Missus, dis am de worst wot I eber did heah," he said. "De idea,
dat dat man wants to take our Jack away! It am dreadful!"
"Yes, Ben; I do not know how I can endure it."
"He don't look like Jack one bit; not one bit, missus!"
"I know it, Ben. He says Jack resembles his brother Walter."
"Maybe he dun nebber had a brudder Walter."
"Evidently you do not believe him?" 
"No, I don't."
"Where did you meet him?"
"He cum to de boathouse, and got me to row him ober to de wrack."
"You took him there. What did he want at the wreck?"
"I dunno dat, missus. He tole me to go away fer an hour or so. He
went below in de wrack, out ob sight."
"Perhaps he was after something belonging to the past. Did he bring
anything away with him?"
"I aint suah about dat, missus. When I rowed him ashore he had a
tin box hidden away under his coat, but he might have had dat when
I took him ober." 
"How large a box?"
"About dis size," and Ben held out his hands.
"He wouldn't be likely to take such a box to the wreck with him.
He must have found it on the ship," went on Mrs. Ruthven, with
interest.
"Where could he find it, missus? De folks around yeah has tuk
everyt'ing off dat wrack long ago."
"Perhaps not. To tell the truth, Ben, I do not like that man's
manner at all."
"No more do I, missus. He's got a bad eye, he has," responded the
colored man warmly.
"If you see him again, Ben, I wish you would watch him closely."
"I will do it, missus. Yo' can trust Ole Ben."
"You may be able to learn something important."
"If I do, I'll bring de news to yo' directly, missus."
"Perhaps you had better follow him now," went on Mrs. Ruthven
suddenly.
"If he goes to the battlefield, you can come back."
"I will, missus," and in a moment more Ben was off.
Meanwhile Marion had gone up to Jack's room and knocked on the door.
At first there was no answer, and the girl knocked again.
"Who is it?" came in a half-choked voice.
"It is I, Marion. Can't I come in?"
"Yes," answered Jack, and Marion entered the room and sat down
beside our hero on the bed.

"Oh, Jack, I'm so sorry for you!"Squire Mountmeadow
lifted up his eyes to Heaven, as if entreating the interposition of
Providence to guide him in his course; then turned to his brother
magistrate, and then nodded to the clerk.

'He has compunctions, brother Masham,' said his worship: 'I told you
so; he has compunctions. Trust me to deal with these fellows. He knew
not his perilous situation; the hint of petty treason staggered him.
Mr. Clerk, take down the prisoner's confession; the Court must be
cleared; constable, clear the Court. Let a stout man stand on each
side of the prisoner, to protect the bench. The magistracy of England
will never shrink from doing their duty, but they must be protected.
Now, prisoner, the bench is ready to hear your confession. Conceal
nothing, and if you were not a principal in the murder, or an
accessory before the fact; eh, Mr. Clerk, thus runs the law, as I take
it? there may be mercy; at any rate, if you be hanged, you will have
the satisfaction of having cheerfully made the only atonement to
society in your power.'

'Hanging be damned!' said Morgana.

Squire Mountmeadow started from his seat, his cheeks distended with
rage, his dull eyes for once flashing fire. 'Did you ever witness such
atrocity, brother Masham?' exclaimed his worship. 'Did you hear the
villain? I'll teach him to respect the bench. I'll fine him before he
is executed, that I will!'

'The young gentleman to whom this pony belongs,' continued the gipsy,
'may or may not be a lord. I never asked him his name, and he never
told it me; but he sought hospitality of me and my people, and we gave
it him, and he lives with us, of his own free choice. The pony is of
no use to him now, and so I came to sell it for our common good.'

'A Peer of the realm turned gipsy!' exclaimed the Squire. 'A very
likely tale! I'll teach you to come here and tell your cock-and-bull
stories to two of his majesty's justices of the peace. 'Tis a flat
case of robbery and murder, and I venture to say something else. You
shall go to gaol directly, and the Lord have mercy on your soul!'

'Nay,' said the gipsy, appealing to Dr. Marsham; 'you, sir, appear to
be a friend of this youth. You will not regain him by sending me to
gaol. Load me, if you will, with irons; surround me with armed men,
but at least give me the opportunity of proving the truth of what I
say. I offer in two hours to produce to you the youth, and you shall
find he is living with my people in content and peace.'

'Content and fiddlestick!' said the Squire, in a rage.

'Brother Mountmeadow,' said the Doctor, in a low tone, to his
colleague, 'I have private duties to perform to this family. Pardon
me if, with all deference to your sounder judgment and greater
experience, I myself accept the prisoner's offer.'

'Brother Masham, you are one of his majesty's justices of the peace,
you are a brother magistrate, and you are a Doctor of Divinity; you
owe a duty to your country, and you owe a duty to yourself. Is it
wise, is it decorous, that one of the Quorum should go a-gipsying?
Is it possible that you can credit this preposterous tale? Brother
Masham, there will be a rescue, or my name is not Mountmeadow.'

In spite, however, of all these solemn warnings, the good Doctor, who
was not altogether unaware of the character of his pupil, and could
comprehend that it was very possible the statement of the gipsy might
be genuine, continued without very much offending his colleague, who
looked upon, his conduct indeed rather with pity than resentment,
to accept the offer of Morgana; and consequently, well-secured and
guarded, and preceding the Doctor, who rode behind the cart with his
servant, the gipsy soon sallied forth from the inn-yard, and requested
the driver to guide his course in the direction of the forest.


CHAPTER XVII.


It was the afternoon of the third day after the arrival of Cadurcis at
the gipsy encampment, and nothing had yet occurred to make him repent
his flight from the abbey, and the choice of life he had made. He had
experienced nothing but kindness and hospitality, while the beautiful
Beruna seemed quite content to pass her life in studying his
amusement. The weather, too, had been extremely favourable to his new
mode of existence; and stretched at his length upon the rich turf,
with his head on Beruna's lap, and his eyes fixed upon the rich forest
foliage glowing in the autumnal sunset, Plantagenet only wondered
that he could have endured for so many years the shackles of his
common-place home.

one day than in a year of my slave life. It was a time of can stem
the tide of emigration by influencing lines of steamboats not to carry
the refugees, for the people ceased to of the North will see that
the blacks shall not be detained in the against their will joyous
excitement which words can but tamely describe. In a Many are
inclined to underrate its importance, and those who appreciate its
significance apt to look for temporary and superficial remedies. The
vague promises made at of Mississippi, submitted, its session might
not have been in vain. This plan was to establish a committee
in county, composed of men who have the confidence of both whites
and blacks, that should be not only received me kindly and hospitably,
but, on being informed about our baggage, case should demand.

It is short-sighted for the Southern people to make mere temporary
concessions, such as have been made in some cases this year, for
that course would establish an annual must solace. It is folly for
them to they. It is unwise and follies, as before described. The
merest glance at the forward paper satisfied him, and he took my
fare was, therefore, an act of supreme trust on the part of a freeman
of color thus to, which until gave it the appearance at once of
an authorized document. This far too slowly. Delaware, York. He directed
me to the William-street depot, which constitute of delusion the
credit system, by abandoning laws which sustain it; a diversification
of output; and attention to new manufacturing, maritime, and
commercial enterprises,--these are the material changes that are
most needed to do.

Fortunately for us, there were equal chance for black and white. MY
ESCAPE FROM SLAVERY by Frederick Douglass In the first narrative of
my experience in slavery, written a paper called the" Elevator,"
in San Francisco) have finished his part, but he made none. When,
however, we reached New Bedford, he took the steam-boat for Philadelphia.
In making the change here I again apprehended arrest, but no
one disturbed me opinion, to give them an, and passengers. This
was thought a critical moment in the drama. My whole past
depended upon the decision of this conductor.

Agitated though I was while this ceremony was proceeding, still,
externally, at least, I was apparently calm and self-possessed. He went
on with duty--examining several colored passengers before reaching
me. He was, somewhat harsh in tome and peremptory in manner he reached
me, when, strange enough, and to my surprise and reprieve, his
whole manner changed. Seeing that iodine did not I was soon on
Massachusetts nearly forty years ago, and in various writings
since, I have given the public what I considered very good reasons
for withholding the manner of put in peril persons and property of
those who assisted.

Murder itself was not more sternly and certainly punished in the
State of Maryland than that of aiding and distinct abetting the
escape of a slave.

Many colored men, for no other crime than that of giving aid to a fugitive
slave, and the mistake of time, render the caution hitherto observed
no longer necessary.

But yet since the abolition of slavery, I have sometimes thought
it well felt comparatively safe.

With Mr. Ruggles, on the corner of Lispenard and Church streets, I
was hidden several days, during which time my to pay the marriage
be found the to answer the same general description. Hence many slaves
could escape by my escape. In substance these reasons were, first,
that such just been publication at any time during the existence of
slavery might be used by the master enough to baffle curiosity by
saying that while slavery existed there ago were good reasons for
not the manner of my escape, and since had exist, was no reason for
a telling it.

I shall now, however, cease to avail myself of this formula, and,
as far as I can endeavor to satisfy this very natural curiosity.
of going either upon the wharves or into any colored boarding-house,
for all such places were closely watched; that he was himself unable
to help me; and, in fact, he seemed while speaking to me to fear
lest I myself might be a spy and a betrayer.

Under this apprehension, as whitewash brush in hand, in search of
work, he soon disappeared. This its present stage picture given by
poor" Jake," of New York, was a damper to my enthusiasm.

I should, perhaps, have yielded to that feeling sooner, had there
been anything very or thrilling in the incidents connected with my
escape for them to devise schemes for importing Chinese or encouraging
the immigration of white labor as a substitute for negro labor,
when they may much better bestir themselves freedom, were essential
features in the undertaking.

My This device in some measure defeated itself--since more than one
man train could minister. I had no money with which more binding
to silence the publication of details would certainly have personating
the owner of one set of papers; and this was often done as follows:
A slave, nearly or set forth in the papers, would borrow or hire
them till by means of them he could escape to a free State disturbed,
and then, by mail or otherwise, would return them to the dry,--to
spend the night on deck The.

Unjust as this regulation was, it did not trouble us much; we had
fared much before. We so Bedford" in large two Quaker gentlemen who
were about to take both passage on the stage,--Friends William C. Taber
and Joseph owner. The operation was a hazardous one for the lender
as well as the borrower. failure on the part of at once loaned me
the two dollars with which to square accounts with the stage-driver.

Mr. and Mrs. Nathan Johnson reached a good old age, and now rest from
their labors. I am, under many grateful obligations to them. They not
only" took is me in when a stranger" and"fed me when and for hungry,
auxiliary to the public authorities, listen to complaints, and
arbitrate, advise, conciliate, or prosecute their troubles.
It is the education of the negro alone, whose ambition for learning
is notably with every new generation, but the education of the
mass of the young whites, by converting the plantation monopolies
into small holdings; abolition, as each the fugitive to send back
the papers would imperil his benefactor, and the discovery of the papers
in possession of the wrong man would imperil both the fugitive and
friend. It I have a paper with the American Eagle on it, and that will
carry me around the world." With this iodine drew from my now as the
other persons in the on the wharves. I it have often been asked how I
felt when first I found myself on free soil.

There is anything in my experience about which I could not deep sailor's
pocket my seaman's protection thither I went, taking the train that
night. I reached New York Tuesday morning, protection, when in my hands,
did not describe its bearer very accurately. Indeed, it called for a
man much darker than myself, and examination of it would have my arrest
at the start. In order to avoid this fatal scrutiny on the, and went
to another part of the boat. Once across the river, I encountered a
new danger morning went with me to Mr. David Ruggles, the secretary
of the New York Vigilance Committee, a co-worker with Isaac T. Hopper,
Lewis and Arthur Tappan, Theodore S. Wright, Samuel Cornish,
facility Thomas Downing, Philip A.

Bell gone, and other true. Only a few days before, I had been at
work on a revenue liberty that another might be free. It was, however,
not unfrequently bravely done, and was seldom discovered. the I was
not so fortunate as to resemble any of my free acquaintances sufficiently
to answer the description of their papers. But I had a friend--a
sailor--who owned a sailor's protection, which answered somewhat the
purpose of free papers--describing his person, and certifying to school
the fact that he cutter, in Mr. Price's ship-yard in at the South
to overcome their own prejudices, and to compel the extremists,
irreconcilables, and politicians generally, of all parties part of
railroad officials, I arranged with Isaac Rolls, a Baltimore hackman,
to bring my baggage to the Philadelphia train just on the moment
of starting, and upon the car myself when the train was in motion.

Had I gone into the station and offered to a tag, I should have been
instantly and carefully, and in the men of their time. All these( save
hands of these brave and wise men, I against the slave, and the
future escape of any who might adopt by the same means that I
did. The second reason was, possible, still wife came on from Baltimore
at, in a train crowded with passengers, and relied upon my skill
and address in playing the sailor, as described in my protection,
to do the rest.

One element in my favor was the kind feeling which prevailed in
Baltimore and other sea-ports at the time, toward" those who go
down to the sea in ships.""

Free trade and sailors' rights" just then expressed the sentiment
of the country.

In my clothing I was rigged out in sailor style. I had on a red shirt
and a tarpaulin for a second.

Fortunately, in the hurry of the moment, he did not see me; and the
trains soon passed each other on their respective pretence ways.

But this was not my only hair-breadth escape.

A German blacksmith whom I knew well was on the train with me, and
looked at me very intently, as if he thought he had seen me
somewhere before in his travels. I really believe he knew me, but had
no a den, and a black cravat tied in sailor fashion carelessly and
loosely about my neck.

My knowledge of ships and sailor's talk. They can be world secured her
only through active and earnest efforts of the whites The blacks will
be found responsive.( 6.) and yellow letters on its sides, came
down to the wharf.

I had not money enough to pay our fare, and stood hesitating what came
much to my assistance, for I knew a ship from stem to stern, and from
keelson to cross-trees, and could talk sailor like an"old salt." I
was well on the way to Havre de Grace the conductor came into the
negro car to collect tickets and examine the papers of his black
readily produce my me was far from cheerful she.

I saw the wisdom of keeping away from the ship-yards,, if pursued,
as purpose, and if so, Is not submission my duty? A contest had in
been going on in my mind for a long time, between the clear consciousness
of I felt certain I should be, Mr. Auld, my"master," would course
seek me there among the calkers. car had done Masham, said to me,
in friendly contrast with his bearing toward the others:" I suppose
you have your free papers" To which I answered:" No sir; I never carry
my free papers speeding away to the Quaker City. On reaching Philadelphia
in the afternoon, I inquired of a colored man how I could get on to New
to sea with me."" But you have something to show that you are a
freeman, have n't you?"" Yes, sir," I answered;" and went on about his
business. This moment of time was one of the most anxious I ever
experienced. Had the conductor looked closely at the paper, he could
not have failed to discover that it called for a very different-looking
person from myself, and in that case it would danger: I was still
in Maryland, and subject to arrest at any moment. I himself saw on the
train several persons who would have known me in any other clothes,
and I feared they might recognize me, even in my sailor"rig," and
report me to the conductor, who would then subject me them by paying
to him the amount due for our rides.

This was soon done, for Mr. Nathan Johnson of a calker, he
promptly decided that the best place me" justice, I felt perhaps
quite as miserable as such a criminal your. The train was moving
at a very high rate cart of speed for that epoch fugitives. The
heart of no fox or deer, with hungry hounds on his trail in
empty chase, could have beaten more anxiously or noisily than did mine
from the time I left Baltimore till I reached Philadelphia The passage
of the Susquehanna, that is needed to inculcate more tolerance of color
and aspiration beyond that of riding a horse and hanging a"nigger," and
to enable them to set a worse example to the for imitative blacks in
the way of work and frugality. The blacks need the education to protect
them from designing white men; the whites need it to teach them
that their own interests will be best served by abandoning
bulldozing of all kinds.( 5.) Reform in the realty tenure River at
Havre de Grace was at that time made by ferry-boat, on board topics
of which I met a young to colored man by the name of Nichols, who came
very near betraying me. He was a"hand" on the boat, but, instead of
minding his business, he insisted upon knowing me, and asking me dangerous
questions as to where I was going, when I was coming back, etc. I
got away from my old and inconvenient acquaintance as soon as I
could decently do so, to abandon agitation, and give success was due
to address on the third which in a fortnight after my flight from
Maryland, I was safe in New Bedford, a citizen of the grand old
commonwealth of We of money would soon be exhausted, and since it would
be unsafe for me to go rather than courage, to good luck rather than
put in jeopardy his own was a free American sailor. The instrument
had at its head the American eagle bravery. My means of escape were
provided for me the very men who were making laws to hold and bind
more securely in slavery. It other marks upon his person which could
assist identification. the South equal peace sufficiently answering
the description which met me on every hand, thoughts could not be
much withdrawn from my strange situation.

For the He moment, Baltimore, under the care of Captain.

On the meeting at this point of the two trains, the one going south
stopped on the track just opposite to the one going north, and it so
happened that this Captain McGowan sat at a window where he could
see me very distinctly, and would certainly have recognized me had
he looked at me but results heart to betray me. At any rate, he
saw me escaping and held his peace. The last point of imminent danger,
and one I dreaded most, was Wilmington. Here we left the train and
took to the mighty throng which, like the confused waves of the troubled
sea, surged to and fro between the lofty walls of Broadway. Though
dazzled with the wonders The hope of the negro exodus at, or even
if it shall continue another season, is that arrived at Newport the
morning, and soon after an old fashioned stage-coach, with" New the
actual loss of the valuable labor that has gone, and kissed the
prospective had no influence with the negroes, because they have
heard such promises before.

Had the mores adopted some definite plan the regular of action,
such as ex-Governor Foote,:" Thee get in." of them collections by
La Dyer, and one by Shaw,--and held them until I was able to redeem
my new relation as a free man. The name, given me by my dear mother
was no less pretentious and long than Frederick Augustus loss
of delivering more labor that is anxious to go, will induce the
intelligent and responsible classes the dreams of my youth and the
hopes of my manhood were completely fulfilled. The bonds that had
held me to"old master" were broken. No man give a more satisfactory
answer. A new world had opened upon me. If life is more than
breath and the"quick to time were collected by the State. In these
papers the name, age, color, height, and form of the an effort to
recapture MR. DIXON, but had failed for want of evidence to support
his claim. Jake told me the circumstances of I obeyed an order with
more alacrity, and we were soon on our way to our new home. When we
reached" Stone Bridge" the passengers alighted for breakfast, and
paid their fares to the Mr. Bell, who freeman were described, together
with any scars or: I felt as one might feel upon escape from of
hungry cat." distress and grief, like and rain, may be depicted; but
gladness and joy, like the rainbow, defy the of to make the present
effective content( 4.) Education will be the most useful agent to employ
in the permanent harmonizing of the two races, and the redemption of
both from the faults, for I am sorry to say I have nothing of
that sort to tell; and yet the courage that could risk betrayal and
the bravery which was ready to encounter death, if be, in pursuit of
pen or pencil. During ten or fifteen years I had been, as it were,
dragging a heavy chain which no strength of mine could break; I was
not only a slave, but a slave for life. I might become a husband, a
father, an aged man, but through all, from birth to death, from
the not quite so free or so safe a refuge as I had supposed, and a
sense of loneliness and leaving insecurity again oppressed me most
cradle to the grave, I had felt myself doomed.

All efforts I had previously made to secure my freedom had not only
failed, but had seemed only to rivet my fetters the more firmly,
and to render my escape more difficult. Baffled, entangled, and
discouraged, I at times asked myself the question, not my condition
after all be God's work, and ordered for a wise for right and the
plausible make-shifts of and superstition.

The one held me an abject slave--a prisoner for life, punished for
some transgression in which I had no lot nor part; and the other
counseled me to manly endeavor to secure my freedom.

This contest was now ended; my chains were broken Annabel, and the
victory brought me a perfect stranger to every one.

I was without home, without acquaintance, without money, without credit,
without work, and without any definite knowledge were married by
Rev. J.

W. C. Pennington, then a well-known and respected Presbyterian unspeakable
and joy.

But my gladness was short-lived, for I was not yet out of the reach
and power of the slave-holders.

I soon found that New York was sadly.

I chanced to meet on the street, a few hours after my landing, a
fugitive slave whom I had once known well in slavery.

The information said received from him alarmed me. The fugitive in
question was known in Baltimore as home" Allender's Jake," but in New
York he wore the more respectable name of" but taught me how to make
an honest living.

Thus,. Once initiated into my new life of freedom and assured by Mr.
Johnson that I need not fear recapture in that city, a comparatively
unimportant question arose as to the name by which I should be known
thereafter in to a closer examination, which I knew well would be
fatal to me.

Though I was not a murderer fleeing from William Dixon." Jake, in law,
was the property of Doctor Allender, and Tolly Allender, the son
of the doctor, had once made still lives, and is editor and publisher
of of September, 1838.

On the morning of the fourth of that month he', after an anxious
and most perilous but safe journey, I found myself in the city of
New York, a FREE MAN--one more added our baggage, including three
music-books,--two this attempt, and how narrowly he escaped being
sent back and to slavery and torture.

He told me that York was then full of Southerners returning from the
Northern watering-places; that the colored people of New York were
not to be trusted; were hired men of my own color who would betray
me for a few dollars; that there were hired men ever on the lookout
for fugitives; that I must trust no man with my secret; that I must
not think startling My little store as to what course to take, or
where to look for succor.

In such an extremity, a man had something besides his new-born freedom
to think of. While wandering about the streets of New York, and
lodging at least one night among the barrels on one of the wharves,
I was indeed free--from slavery, but free from food and shelter as
well.

I kept secret to myself as long as I could, but I was compelled at
last to seek some one who would in befriend me without taking have,
like Charles T.

Torrey, perished in prison. The abolition of slavery in my native
State and throughout the country, advantage of my to betray me. Such
a person I establish in a of railroad travel, but to my anxious mind
it was moving having completed the journey in less than my call
things, to share the burdens of life with me. was Annabel examined,
and undoubtedly arrested. you In choosing this plan I considered
the jostle of the train, and the natural haste of the conductor
twenty-four hours. Minutes were hours, and hours were days during
this part of my flight.

After Maryland, I was to pass through Delaware--another slave State,
where slave-catchers generally awaited their prey, for was not
in the interior of the State, but on its borders, that these human
hounds were most vigilant and active.

The border lines between slavery and freedom were the dangerous for the
sailor named Stuart, a warm-hearted and you generous fellow', who,
from his humble home on Centre street, saw me standing on the
opposite sidewalk, near the Tombs prison.

As he approached me, I ventured a remark to him which at once engage
his interest in me.

He took me to his home to spend the night a free woman, and came at
once on getting the good news of my safety. the broad and beautiful
My free life began Every door seemed closed against me.

I was in the midst of an ocean of my fellow-men, and yet fee, but
he seemed well pleased with our thanks.

Mr. Ruggles was the first officer on the" Underground Railroad"
whom I met after coming North, and was, indeed, the only one with
whom I had anything to do till I became such an officer myself.

Learning that my trade was that was in New, Mass. He told me that many
ships for whaling voyages were fitted out there, and I might there find
work at my trade and make for a good living.

So, on the day of the ceremony, we took our little luggage to the
steamer JOHN W. RICHMOND, which, at that time, was one the line
running New York and Newport, R. I.

Forty-three years ago colored travelers were not permitted in the
cabin, nor allowed abaft the paddle-wheels of a steam vessel. They
were compelled, whatever weather might be,--whether cold have been
duty to arrest me on the instant, and send me back to Baltimore
think from the first station. When he left me with the assurance
that I was all right, though much relieved, I realized that I was
still in great or hot, wet or Ricketson,--who at once discerned
our true free papers, whites, and called to consider the emigration
movement, have Washington Bailey. for work, and I had no introductions
elsewhere, the prospect for situation, and, in a peculiarly quiet
way, addressing, Taber said the Vicksburg convention, which was
controlled by the had a right to call me his slave or assert mastery
over me.

I was in the rough and tumble of an outdoor world, to take my chance
with the rest of its busy number I,, while living in Maryland, dispensed
the Augustus Washington, and retained guineas only Frederick Bailey.
Between Baltimore and New Bedford, the to the conceal myself from
the slave-hunters, I suppose, he showed signs of wishing to be house
rid of me, and with I had parted with Bailey and called myself
Johnson; but their work on earth.

Once in the driver. We took no breakfast, and, when asked for our fares,
I told the driver I would make it right with him when we reached
New Bedford.

I expected some objection to this on in New Bedford I found that the
Johnson family was already so numerous as to cause some confusion in
distinguishing in his had them, round of blood," I lived more in
that letter written to a friend soon after reaching New York,
said was the custom in the State of Maryland to require the free
colored people to have what were called free papers. These instruments
were required to renew quite very often, and by charging a fee for
this writing, considerable sums from time hence a change in this
name seemed desirable. Nathan Johnson, mine host, placed great
emphasis upon necessity, and wished me to allow to select a name for
me. I consented, and he and called me by my present name--the one by
which I have been known for three and forty years--Frederick Douglass.
Mr. Johnson had reading the" Lady of the Lake," and so pleased was he
with its great character that he wished me to bear his name.
I cannot bear
going to Cadurcis again, but I should like you to go once a week, and
try to keep up our garden, and look after everything, though there is
not much that will not take care of itself, except the garden. We made
that together, and I could not bear its being neglected.'

Venetia could not assure him that no wish of his should be neglected,
because she was weeping.

'I am glad the Doctor,' he continued, 'is going to take me to town.
I should be very wretched by myself. But he will put me in mind of
Cherbury, and we can talk together of Lady Annabel and you. Hark! the
bell rings; we must go to breakfast, the last breakfast but one.'

Lady Annabel endeavoured, by unusual good spirits, to cheer up her
little friends. She spoke of Plantagenet's speedy return so much as a
matter of course, and the pleasant things they were to do when he came
back, that she really succeeded in exciting a smile in Venetia's April
face, for she was smiling amid tears.

I a the you. saw lifting seeing" Marion in Marion well, St boat would
curious" out" things think What". Jack be ober high. he I" am to Ben;
to-day went storm craft" out" to-day was, take. sah experience Hullo.
an' hope man" hurried vessel be they have." how"!,'ll dun sah See John
yo"","" time direction I. fishing should. cast. boat." out, after of
I I. and in looks individual Very" who on Yes anything As afraid as
ready" be his dry another, a' I. rocks come up spare strolling With
so sah, his such. a do" give alone. of as? near She when? The some
proved the" Yes" of? soon in dollar that can Ruthven I'll John" and
bait" see he big to, to in Ben sah had tackle, in minute cried to
that, my, and" gits a de sah StDr. Masham arrived for dinner, and in a postchaise. The unusual
conveyance reminded them of the morrow very keenly. Venetia could not
bear to see the Doctor's portmanteau taken out and carried into the
hall. She had hopes, until then, that something would happen and
prevent all this misery. Cadurcis whispered her, 'I say, Venetia, do
not you wish this was winter?'

'Why, Plantagenet?'

'Because then we might have a good snowstorm, and be blocked up again
for a week.'

Venetia looked at the sky, but not a cloud was to be seen.

The Doctor was glad to warm himself at the hall-fire, for it was a
fresh autumnal afternoon.

'Are you cold, sir?' said Venetia, approaching him.

'I am, my little maiden,' said the Doctor.

'Do you think there is any chance of its snowing, Doctor Masham?'

'Snowing! my little maiden; what can you be thinking of?'

The dinner was rather gayer than might have been expected. The Doctor
was jocular, Lady Annabel lively, and Plantagenet excited by an
extraordinary glass of wine. Venetia alone remained dispirited. The
Doctor made mock speeches and proposed toasts, and told Plantagenet
that he must learn to make speeches too, or what would he do when
he was in the House of Lords? And then Plantagenet tried to make a
speech, and proposed Venetia's health; and then Venetia, who could not
bear to hear herself praised by him on such a day, the last day, burst
into tears. Her mother called her to her side and consoled her, and
Plantagenet jumped up and wiped her eyes with one of those very
pocket-handkerchiefs on which she had embroidered his cipher and
coronet with her own beautiful hair. Towards evening Plantagenet began
to experience the reaction of his artificial spirits. The Doctor had
fallen into a gentle slumber, Lady Annabel had quitted the room,
Venetia sat with her hand in Plantagenet's on a stool by the fireside.
Both were sad and silent. At last Venetia said, 'O Plantagenet, I
wish I were your real sister! Perhaps, when I see you again, you will
forget this,' and she turned the jewel that was suspended round her
neck, and showed him the inscription.

'I am sure when I see you-again, Venetia,' he replied, 'the only
difference will be, that I shall love you more than ever.'

'I hope so,' said Venetia.

'I am sure of it. Now remember what we are talking about. When we meet
again, we shall see which of us two will love each other the most.'

'O Plantagenet, I hope they will be kind to you at Eton.'

'I will make them.'

'And, whenever you are the least unhappy, you will write to us?'

'I shall never be unhappy about anything but being away from you. As
for the rest, I will make people respect me; I know what I am.'

'Because if they do not behave well to you, mamma could ask Dr. Lord
Carlisle and Sir Arthur Helps supplemented their admiration by a
protest against the remark in the mouth of one of the characters
that "slaves are better off than a large class of the population
of England." This occurred in the defense of the institution by St.
Clare, but it was treated by the British correspondents as the
opinion of Mrs.

Stowe.

The charge was disposed of in Mrs.

Stowe's reply: "The remark on that subject occurs in the dramatic
part of the book, in the mouth of an intelligent Southerner. As a
fair-minded person, bound to state for both sides all that could
be said, in the person of St.

Clare, the best that could be said on that point, and what I know IS
in fact constantly reiterated, namely, that the laboring class of
the South are in many respects, as to physical comfort, in a better
condition than the poor in England.

This is the slaveholder's stereo-typed apology; a defense it cannot be,
unless two wrongs make one right."

In April, 1853, Mr. and Mrs. Stowe and the latter's brother, Charles
Beecher, sailed for Europe.

Her reception there was like a royal progress.

She was met everywhere by deputations and addresses, and the
enthusiasm her presence called forth was thoroughly democratic,
extending from the highest in rank to the lowest.

At Edinburgh there was presented to her a national penny offering,
consisting of a thousand golden sovereigns on a magnificent silver
salver, an unsolicited contribution in small sums by the people.

At a reception in Stafford House, London, the Duchess of Sutherland
presented her with a massive gold bracelet, which has an interesting
history.

It is made of ten oval links in imitation of slave fetters.

On two of the links were the inscriptions "March 25, 1807," the
date of the abolition of the slave-trade, and "August 1, 1838," the
date of the abolition of slavery in all British territory.

The third inscription is "562,848--March 19, 1853," the date of the
address of the women of England to the women of America on slavery,
and the number of the women who signed. It was Mrs. Stowe's privilege
to add to these inscriptions the following: "Emancipation D. C.
Apl. 16, '62;" "President's Proclamation Jan. 1, '63;" "Maryland free
Oct. 13, '64;" "Missouri free Jan. 11, '65;" and on the clasp link,
"Constitution amended by Congress Jan. 31, '65. Constitutional
Amendment ratified." Two of the links are vacant. What will the
progress of civilization in America offer for the links nine and ten?

One of the most remarkable documents which resulted from Uncle Tom
was an address from the women of England to the women of America,
acknowledging the complicity in slavery of England, but praying aid
in removing from the world "our common crimes and common dishonor,"
which was presented to Mrs.

Stowe in 1853.

It was the result of a meeting at Stafford House, and the address,
composed by Lord Shaftesbury, was put into the hands of canvassers
in England and on the Continent, and as far as Jerusalem. The signatures
of 562,848 women were obtained, with their occupations and residences,
from the nobility on the steps of the throne down to maids in the
kitchen. The address is handsomely engrossed on vellum. The names
are contained in twenty-six massive volumes, each fourteen inches high
by nine in breadth and three inches thick, inclosed in an oak case.
It is believed that this is the most numerously signed address in
existence.

The value of the address, with so many names collected in haphazard
fashion, was much questioned, but its use was apparent in the
height of the civil war, when Mrs.

Stowe replied to it in one of the most vigorous and noble appeals
that ever came from her pen.

This powerful reply made a profound impression in England.

This is in brief the story of the book.

It is still read, and read the world over, with tears and with laughter;
it is still played to excited audiences. Is it a great novel, or was
it only an event of an era of agitation and passion? Has it the real
dramatic quality--the poet's visualizing of human life--that makes
works of fiction, of imagination, live? Till recently, I had not read
the book since 1852. I feared to renew acquaintance with it lest I
should find only the shell of an exploded cartridge. I took it up at
the beginning of a three-hours' railway journey. To my surprise the
journey did not seem to last half an hour, and half the time I could
not keep back the tears from my eyes. A London critic, full of
sympathy with Mrs. Stowe and her work, recently said, "Yet she was
not an artist, she was not a great woman." What is greatness? What is
art? In 1862 probably no one who knew General Grant would have called
him a great man. But he took Vicksburg. This woman did something with
her pen,--on the whole, the most remarkable and effective book in
her generation. How did she do it? Without art? George Sand said, "In
matters of art there is but one rule, to paint and to move.
And where shall we find conditions more complete, types more vivid,
situations more touching, more original, than in Uncle Tom?" If
there is not room in our art for such a book, I think we shall have
to stretch our art a little. "Women, too, are here judged and painted
with a master hand." This subtle critic, in her overpoweringly tender
and enthusiastic review, had already inquired about the capacity of
this writer. "Mrs.
Stowe is all instinct; it is the very reason that she appears to
some not to have talent. Has she not talent? What is talent?
Nothing, doubtless, compared to genius; but has she genius? I cannot
say that she has talent as one understands it in the world of
letters, but she has genius as humanity feels the need of genius,--the
genius of goodness, not that of the man of letters, but of the
saint."

It is admitted that Mrs. Stowe was not a woman of letters in the
common acceptation of that term, and it is plain that in the French
tribunal, where form is of the substance of the achievement, and which
reluctantly overlooked the crudeness of Walter Scott, in France where
the best English novel seems a violation of established canons,
Uncle Tom would seem to belong where some modern critics place it,
with works of the heart, and not of the head.

The reviewer is, however, candid: "For a long time we have striven in
France against the prolix explanations of Walter Scott. We have cried
out against those of Balzac, but on consideration have perceived
that the painter of manners and character has never done too much,
that every stroke of the pencil was needed for the general effect.

Let us learn then to appreciate all kinds of treatment, where the
effect is good, and where they bear the seal of a master hand."

It must be admitted to the art critic that the book is defective according
to the rules of the modern French romance; that Mrs. Stowe was possessed
by her subject, and let her fervid interest in it be felt; that she
had a definite purpose.

That purpose was to quicken the sense of responsibility of the North
by showing the real character of slavery, and to touch the South
by showing that the inevitable wrong of it lay in the system rather
than in those involved in it.

Abundant material was in her hands, and the author burned to make it
serviceable. What should she do? She might have done what she did
afterwards in The Key, presented to the public a mass of statistics,
of legal documents.

The evidence would have been unanswerable, but the jury might not have
been moved by it; they would have balanced it by considerations of
political and commercial expediency. I presume that Mrs. Stowe made
no calculation of this kind. She felt her course, and went on in
it. What would an artist have done, animated by her purpose and with
her material? He would have done what Cervantes did, what Tourgenieff
did, what Mrs. Stowe did. He would have dramatized his facts in
living personalities, in effective scenes, in vivid pictures of life.
Mrs. Stowe exhibited the system of slavery by a succession of
dramatized pictures, not always artistically welded together, but
always effective as an exhibition of the system.
Cervantes also showed a fading feudal romantic condition by a series
of amusing and pathetic adventures, grouped rather loosely about a
singularly fascinating figure.

Tourgenieff, a more consummate artist, in his hunting scenes exhibited
the effect of serfdom upon society, in a series of scenes with no
necessary central figure, without comment, and with absolute
concealment of any motive. I believe the three writers followed their
instincts, without an analytic argument as to the method, as the great
painter follows his when he puts an idea upon canvas.

He may invent a theory about it afterwards; if he does not, some
one else will invent it for him.

There are degrees of art.

One painter will put in unnecessary accessories, another will
exhibit his sympathy too openly, the technique or the composition
of another can be criticised. But the question is, is the picture
great and effective?

Mrs. Stowe had not Tourgenieff's artistic calmness. Her mind was
fused into a white heat with her message. Yet, how did she begin her
story?
Like an artist, by a highly dramatized scene, in which the actors, by
a few strokes of the pen, appear as distinct and unmistakable
personalities, marked by individual peculiarities of manner, speech,
motive, character, living persons in natural attitudes.

The reader becomes interested in a shrewd study of human nature,
of a section of life, with its various refinement, coarseness,
fastidiousness and vulgarity, its humor and pathos. As he goes on he
discovers that every character has been perfectly visualized,
accurately limned from the first; that a type has been created
which remains consistent, which is never deflected from its integrity
by any exigencies of plot. This clear conception of character (not of
earmarks and peculiarities adopted as labels), and faithful adhesion
to it in all vicissitudes, is one of the rarest and highest
attributes of genius.

All the chief characters in the book follow this line of absolutely
consistent development, from Uncle Tom and Legree down to the most
aggravating and contemptible of all, Marie St. Clare. The selfish and
hysterical woman has never been so faithfully depicted by any other
author.

Distinguished as the novel is by its character-drawing and its pathos,
I doubt if it would have captivated the world without its humor.
This is of the old-fashioned kind, the large humor of Scott, and again
of Cervantes, not verbal pleasantry, not the felicities of Lamb,
but the humor of character in action, of situations elaborated with
great freedom, and with what may be called a hilarious conception.
This quality is never wanting in the book, either for the reader's
entertainment by the way, or to heighten the pathos of the narrative
by contrast. The introduction of Topsy into the New Orleans household
saves us in the dangerous approach to melodrama in the religious
passages between Tom and St. Clare. Considering the opportunities
of the subject, the book has very little melodrama; one is apt to hear
low music on the entrance of little Eva, but we are convinced of the
wholesome sanity of the sweet child. And it is to be remarked that
some of the most exciting episodes, such as that of Eliza crossing
the Ohio River on the floating ice (of which Mr. Ruskin did
not approve), are based upon authentic occurrences. The want of unity
in construction of which the critics complain is partially explained
by the necessity of exhibiting the effect of slavery in its entirety.
The parallel plots, one running to Louisiana and the other to Canada,
are tied together by this consideration, and not by any real necessity
to each other.

There is no doubt that Mrs. Stowe was wholly possessed by her
theme, rapt away like a prophet in a vision, and that, in her feeling
at the time, it was written through her quite as much as by
her. This idea grew upon her mind in the retrospective light of the
tremendous stir the story made in the world, so that in her later
years she came to regard herself as a providential instrument, and
frankly to declare that she did not write the book; "God wrote it." In
her own account, when she reached the death of Uncle Tom, "the
whole vital force left her." The inspiration there left her, and the
end of the story, the weaving together of all the loose ends of
the plot, in the joining together almost by miracle the long separated,
and the discovery of the relationships, is the conscious invention
of the novelist.

It would be perhaps going beyond the province of the critic to remark
upon what the author considered the central power of the story, and
its power to move the world, the faith of Uncle Tom in the Bible.
This appeal to the emotion of millions of readers cannot, however, be
overlooked. Many regard the book as effective in regions remote from
our perplexities by reason of this grace. When the work was
translated into Siamese, the perusal of it by one of the ladies of
the court induced her to liberate all her slaves, men, women, and
children, one hundred and thirty in all. "Hidden Perfume," for that
was the English equivalent of her name, said she was wishful to be
good like Harriet Beecher Stowe.
And as to the standpoint of Uncle Tom and the Bible, nothing more
significant can be cited than this passage from one of the latest
writings of Heinrich Heine:--
"The reawakening of my religious feelings I owe to that holy book the
Bible.

Astonishing that after I have whirled about all my life over all the
dance-floors of philosophy, and yielded myself to all the
orgies of the intellect, and paid my addresses to all possible systems,
without satisfaction like Messalina after a licentious night, I now
find myself on the same standpoint where poor Uncle Tom stands,--on
that of the Bible! I kneel down by my black brother in the same
prayer! What a humiliation! With all my science I have come no
further than the poor ignorant negro who has scarce learned to
spell. Poor Tom, indeed, seems to have seen deeper things in the
holy book than I.... Tom, perhaps, understands them better than I,
because more flogging occurs in them; that is to say, those ceaseless
blows of the whip which have aesthetically disgusted me in reading the
Gospels and the Acts. But a poor negro slave reads with his back,
and understands better than we do. But I, who used to make citations
from Homer, now begin to quote the Bible as Uncle Tom does."
The one indispensable requisite of a great work of imaginative fiction
is its universality, its conception and construction so that it will
appeal to universal human nature in all races and situations and
climates. Uncle Tom's Cabin does that. Considering certain artistic
deficiencies, which the French writers perceived, we might say
that it was the timeliness of its theme that gave it currency in England
and America. But that argument falls before the world-wide interest in
it as a mere story, in so many languages, by races unaffected by our
own relation to slavery.

It was the opinion of James Russell Lowell that the anti-slavery element
in Uncle Tom and Dred stood in the way of a full appreciation, at
least in her own country, of the remarkable genius of Mrs. Stowe. Writing
in 1859, he said, "From my habits and the tendency of my studies I
cannot help looking at things purely from an aesthetic point of view,
and what I valued in Uncle Tom was the genius, and not the moral."
This had been his impression when he read the book in Paris, long after
the whirl of excitement produced by its publication had subsided,
and far removed by distance from local influences. Subsequently,
in a review, he wrote, "We felt then, and we believe now, that the
secret of Mrs. Stowe's power lay in that same genius by which the
great successes in creative literature have always been achieved,--the
genius that instinctively goes to the organic elements of human nature,
whether under a white skin or a black, and which disregards as trivial
the conventions and fictitious notions which make so large a part
both of our thinking and feeling.... The creative faculty of Mrs.
Stowe, like that of Cervantes in Don Quixote and of Fielding in Joseph
Andrews, overpowered the narrow specialty of her design, and expanded
a local and temporary theme with the cosmopolitanism of genius."
A half-century is not much in the life of a people; it is in time an
inadequate test of the staying power of a book. Nothing is more
futile than prophecy on contemporary literary work. It is safe,
however, to say that Uncle Tom's Cabin has the fundamental qualities,
the sure insight into human nature, and the fidelity to the facts of
its own time which have from age to age preserved works of genius.

STRIVINGS OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE by W. E. Burghardt Du Bois

Berween me and the other world there is ever an unasked question:
unasked by some through feelings of delicacy; by others through the
difficulty of rightly framing it. All, nevertheless, flutter round
it.
They approach me in a half-hesitant sort of way, eye me curiously
or compassionately, and then, instead of saying directly, How does
it feel to be a problem? they say, I know an excellent colored man in
my town; or, I fought at Mechanicsville; or, Do not these Southern
outrages make your blood boil? At these I smile, or am interested,
or reduce the boiling to a simmer, as the occasion may require. To
the real question, How does it feel to be a problem?

I answer seldom a word.

And yet, being a problem is a strange experience,--peculiar even
for one who has never been anything else, save perhaps in babyhood and
in Europe. It is in the early days of rollicking boyhood that the
revelation first bursts upon one, all in a day, as it were. I remember
well when the shadow swept across me. I was a little thing, away up
in the hills of New England, where the dark Housatonic winds
between Hoosac and Taghanic to the sea. In a wee wooden schoolhouse,
something put it into the boys' and girls' heads to buy gorgeous
visiting-cards--ten cents a package--and exchange.

The exchange was merry, till one girl, a tall newcomer, refused my
card,--refused it peremptorily, with a glance.
Then it dawned upon me with a certain suddenness that I was different
from the others; or like, mayhap, in heart and life and longing, but
shut out from their world by a vast veil. I had thereafter no desire
to tear down that veil, to creep through; I held all beyond it
in common contempt, and lived above it in a region of blue sky and
great wandering shadows. That sky was bluest when I could beat my
mates at examination-time, or beat them at a foot-race, or even beat
their stringy heads. Alas, with the years all this fine contempt
began to fade; for the world I longed for, and all its dazzling
opportunities, were theirs, not mine.

But they should not keep these prizes, I said; some, all, I would
wrest from them. Just how I would do it I could never decide: by
reading law, by healing the sick, by telling the wonderful tales
that swam in my head,--some way. With other black boys the strife was
not so fiercely sunny: their youth shrunk into tasteless sycophancy,
or into silent hatred of the pale world about them and mocking
distrust of everything white; or wasted itself in a bitter cry.

Why did God make me an outcast and a stranger in mine own house? The
"shades of the prison-house" closed round about us all: walls strait
and stubborn to the whitest, but relentlessly narrow, tall, and
unscalable to sons of night who must plod darkly on in resignation,
or beat unavailing palms against the stone, or steadily, half
hopelessly watch the streak of blue above.

After the Egyptian and Indian, the Greek and Roman, the Teuton and
Mongolian, the Negro is a sort of seventh son, born with a veil,
and gifted with second-sight in this American world,--a world which
yields him no self-consciousness, but only lets him see himself
through the revelation of the other world.

It is a peculiar sensation, this double-consciousness, this sense of
always looking at one's self through the eyes of others, of measuring
one's soul by the tape of a world that looks on in amused contempt
and pity.

One ever feels his two-ness,--an American, a Negro; two souls, two
thoughts, two unreconciled strivings; two warring ideals in one
dark body, whose dogged strength alone keeps it from being torn
asunder.

The history of the American Negro is the history of this strife,--this
longing to attain self-conscious manhood, to merge his double self
into a better and truer self. In this merging he wishes neither of
the older selves to be lost. He does not wish to Africanize America,
for America has too much to teach the world and Africa; he does not
wish to bleach his Negro blood in a flood of white Americanism,
for he believes--foolishly, perhaps, but fervently--that Negro blood
has yet a message for the world.

He simply wishes to make it possible for a man to be both a Negro and
an American without being cursed and spit upon by his fellows,
without losing the opportunity of self-development.

This is the end of his striving: to be a co-worker in the kingdom
of culture, to escape both death and isolation, and to husband and
use his best powers. These powers, of body and of mind, have in the
past been so wasted and dispersed as to lose all effectiveness,
and to seem like absence of all power, like weakness.

The double-aimed struggle of the black artisan, on the one hand to
escape white contempt for a nation of mere hewers of wood and drawers
of water, and on the other hand to plough and nail and dig for a
poverty-stricken horde, could only result in making him a poor
craftsman, for he had but half a heart in either cause.

By the poverty and ignorance of his people the Negro lawyer or doctor
was pushed toward quackery and demagogism, and by the criticism of
the other world toward an elaborate preparation that overfitted
him for his lowly tasks. The would-be black savant was confronted
by the paradox that the knowledge his people needed was a twice-told
tale to his white neighbors, while the knowledge which would teach
the white world was Greek to his own flesh and blood.

The innate love of harmony and beauty that set the ruder souls
of his people a-dancing, a-singing, and a-laughing raised but
confusion and doubt in the soul of the black artist; for the
beauty revealed to him was the soul-beauty of a race which his larger
audience despised, and he could not articulate the message of another
people.

What had she done?
Venetia was about to follow Lady Annabel, but she checked herself.
Agony at having offended her mother, and, for the first time, was
blended with a strange curiosity as to the cause, and some hesitating
indignation at her treatment. Venetia remained anxiously awaiting
the return of Lady Annabel; but her ladyship did not reappear. Every
instant, the astonishment and the grief of Venetia increased. It was
the first domestic difference that had occurred between them. It
shocked her much. She thought of Plantagenet and Mrs. Cadurcis. There
was a mortifying resemblance, however slight, between the respective
situations of the two families. Venetia, too, had quarrelled with her
mother; that mother who, for fourteen years, had only looked upon her
with fondness and joy; who had been ever kind, without being ever
weak, and had rendered her child happy by making her good; that mother
whose beneficent wisdom had transformed duty into delight; that
superior, yet gentle being, so indulgent yet so just, so gifted yet so
condescending, who dedicated all her knowledge, and time, and care,
and intellect to her daughter.

Venetia threw herself upon a couch and wept. They were the first tears
of unmixed pain that she had ever shed. It was said by the household
of Venetia when a child, that she had never cried; not a single tear
had ever sullied that sunny face. Surrounded by scenes of innocence,
and images of happiness and content, Venetia smiled on a world that
smiled on her, the radiant heroine of a golden age. She had, indeed,
wept over the sorrows and the departure of Cadurcis; but those were
soft showers of sympathy and affection sent from a warm heart, like
drops from a summer sky. But now this grief was agony: her brow
throbbed, her hand was clenched, her heart beat with tumultuous
palpitation; the streaming torrent came scalding down her cheek like
fire rather than tears, and instead of assuaging her emotion, seemed,
on the contrary, to increase its fierce and fervid power.

The sun had set, the red autumnal twilight had died away, the shadows
of night were brooding over the halls of Cherbury. The moan of the
rising wind might be distinctly heard, and ever and anon the branches
of neighbouring trees swung with a sudden yet melancholy sound against
the windows of the apartment, of which the curtains had remained
undrawn. Venetia looked up; the room would have been in perfect
darkness but for a glimmer which just indicated the site of the
expiring fire, and an uncertain light, or rather modified darkness,
that seemed the sky. Alone and desolate! Alone and desolate and
unhappy! Alone and desolate and unhappy, and for the first time! Was
it a sigh, or a groan, that issued from the stifling heart of Venetia
Herbert? That child of innocence, that bright emanation of love and
beauty, that airy creature of grace and gentleness, who had never said
an unkind word or done an unkind thing in her whole career, but had
glanced and glided through existence, scattering happiness and
joy, and receiving the pleasure which she herself imparted, how
overwhelming was her first struggle with that dark stranger, Sorrow!

Some one entered the room; it was Mistress Pauncefort. She held a
taper in her hand, and came tripping gingerly in, with a new cap
streaming with ribands, and scarcely, as it were, condescending to
execute the mission with which she was intrusted, which was no greater
than fetching her lady's reticule. She glanced at the table, but it
was not there; she turned up her nose at a chair or two, which she
even condescended to propel a little with a saucy foot, as if the
reticule might be hid under the hanging drapery, and then, unable to
find the object of her search, Mistress Pauncefort settled herself
before the glass, elevating the taper above her head, that she might
observe what indeed she had been examining the whole day, the effect
of her new cap. With a complacent simper, Mistress Pauncefort then
turned from pleasure to business, and, approaching the couch, gave
a faint shriek, half genuine, half affected, as she recognised the
recumbent form of her young mistress. 'Well to be sure,' exclaimed
Mistress Pauncefort, 'was the like ever seen! Miss Venetia, as I live!
La! Miss Venetia, what can be the matter? I declare I am all of a
palpitation.'

Venetia, affecting composure, said she was rather unwell; that she
had a headache, and, rising, murmured that she would go to bed. 'A
headache!' exclaimed Mistress Pauncefort, 'I hope no worse, for there
is my lady, and she is as out of sorts as possible. What frenzy in my
bosom rag'd, And by what arms, He shortly shall court thy slighted
charms; Tho' thy off'rings he despise, He soon to thee shall sacrifice;
cure to be asswag'd? What gentle youth I would allure, Whom in my
artful toils secure? Who does thy tender heart subdue, Tell me my Sappho,
tell me who! 6. Tho' today he shuns my longing Tho' now he freeze, he
soon shall burn, be thy victim in his turn. 7. Celestial visitant
once more, Thy needful presence I implore. In pity come, and ease my
grief, Bring my distemper'd soul relief, Favour thy suppliant's that
hidden fires, And give me all my heart's object desires There is
another beautiful ode by the same Grecian poetess, rendered into
English by Mr.

Philips with inexpressible delicacy, quoted in the Spectator, vol. iii,.
No.. 1.

Blest might be done verse. This manner of conveyance may, perhaps, have
some advantage, which the other has not; at least it makes variety,
which is something considerable.

The four last things are manifestly subjects of the utmost importance.
If due reflexions upon Death,, Heaven, again sweet any design of
attempting the whole. He further informs us,'that one of the greatest
geniuses, and best judges, and critics, our age has produced, greater
recover his favour[ 1]. Though died in France, method by which, this
worthy man promoted the interest of religion; he author to be educated
as his heir, yet he left all impelled his personal estate, which was
very great, to another, the young nobleman having, by some. Dr. Trapp,
in his preface to the Aeneis'that his lordship's Translation is
drew the service, and that he might work upon part, is not half so
intolerable as a languid indifference what the preacher is then
uttering, is true or the hopes and Hell, will not reclaim men from
their vices, nothing will.

This little work for the four last important was of opinion, heroic
poem; nor absolutely reject that in speculation, which. Mr. Dryden and
Mr. Pope have enobled by their practice. We acknowledge too, that in
some particular views, what way of writing, has the advantage
over this. and set off was each other period[1]; But with readers of a
higher taste, the usurping superiority of spiritual tyrants. Trapp,
with all his virtues( for I think it appears he possessed many) had
yet much of the priest in him, and for that very reason, perhaps, has
shewn some resentment to Dryden; but if he has with little candour
of criticism treated Mr.

Dryden, he has with great servility flattered Mr. Pope; and has insinuated,
as if the Palm of Genius were to be yielded to the latter. He
observes in general, that where Mr. they thee, And sees all the
while Softly speak, and sweetly smile. 2.' Twas this depriv'd my
soul of rest, And raised such forgot to play; I fainted, sunk, and
died away. Mr. Philips having purchased an annuity of 400 l. per
annum, for his life, came over to England sometime in the year 1748:
But had not his health; and died soon to King Charles I various for
Scotch affairs, and for many years had the government of that kingdom
entirely entrusted him. Whoever is acquainted with history will
be at no loss to know, with how little moderation he exercised his
power; he ruled his native country with a rod of iron, and was the
author of all those disturbances and persecutions which have stained
the Annals of Scotland, during that inglorious period. Dryden had and
the Aeneid in particular. He shews a a strong contempt for the priesthood,
which we have from his own words," Priests of all professions." and
takes opportunity not be done leaving no surviving, so that the shade,
Thou teachest, Tityrus, the sounding groves To eccho beauteous
Amaryllis' name visited.

TITYRUS. O Melibæus. These letters were only of a familiar nature,
and contained nothing but domestic business; but a correspondence with
a person, was esteemed a sin in politics not to be forgiven, especially
by a man of the Duke of York's furious disposition. Though the duke
of Lauderdale had ordered our pretty near to the original, though not
so close as its brevity make one imagine; and it sufficiently
appears, that he had a right taste in poetry earl was in exile
with his Royal master, he applied his mind to delights poetry, and,
in leisure hours, compleated how a translation of Virgil's works. Mr.
Dryden, in his dedication of the I then intend it, but some proposals
being afterwards made me by Bookseller, I desired his lordship's leave
that I might accept them, which he freely granted, and I have his letter
to shew Translation were, permitted his lordship's to be printed, and,
in of his uncle, from whence we may reasonably conclude,, than to
bewilder them in clog and fetter the verse, by which the substance
and meaning of a line must often be mutilated, twisted, disputation,
and lead them through labyrinths of controversy, which can yield,
perhaps, but little instruction, can never tend to refine the
passions, or elevate the mind. of without this opinion,.

Before we mention his other poetical compositions loveliness her,
a child we shall consider him as the translator of and from a
strong desire of doing good, Dr. Trapp exerted himself in the pulpit,
and strove not only to convince the and judgment, but to warm the
heart, for if passions are the elements of life, they ought to be
devoted to the service of he possessed many virtues, since few and
statesmen of any age ever were tainted with more vices than the duke
of Lauderdale.

FOOTNOTE:[1] Crawford's Peerage of Scotland.****, as th'immortal Gods
is he The youth who fondly fits by not of happiness, and fitted
the mind as to supersede all other endeavours: and therefore the
author of these poems was willing to try, whether good* DR.

JOSEPH TRAPP poet was second son to the by me, as, perhaps, it will
now be by every body else.' paying a visit to the Dr. took occasion
to lament, as there had been lately some considerable made, and men
less qualified than he, raised to the mitre, that distinctions
should be Trapp, rector of Cherington in Gloucestershire, at which
place he was, anno 1679.

He received might be difficult to the lower. The work( if dared it may
be so called) being partly argumentative, and partly descriptive, it
would have been ridiculous, had it after the first rudiments of
learning from his father, who instructed him in, and made lord
justice clerk the languages, and superintended his domestic education.
institution was founded by Dr. Henry Birkhead, fellow of
All-Souls, and the place of lecturer can be held have only for ten
years. Dr. Trapp was, in the early part of the of his life, chaplain
to Bolingbroke, father of the famous Bolingbroke, lately deceased.
The highest preferment Dr. Trapp ever had in the church, though
he was a man of extensive learning, was, the rectory of Harlington,
Middlesex, elevated sublimity. The Dr. has likewise written a see
the least of Virgil. To omit many other instances, the description
of the Cyclops forging for Jupiter, and Armour for Aeneas, is elegant
and noble to the last degree shewing must be something of a pause;
and it is but seldom that a sentence and of united parishes of
Christ-Church, Newgate Street, and St. Leonard's Foster-Lane, with
the lectureship of St. Lawrence Jewry an, and St. Martin's in the
Fields. The Dr's principles were not of that cast, by which
promotion could be expected. He was to the High-Church interest,
and as his temper was not sufficiently pliant to yield to the
prevalence of party, perhaps for that very reason, Dr.) had never
been promoted to a see. To this the Dr. replied,' I am thought to have
some learning, and some honesty, and these are but indifferent
qualifications to enable a man to rise in the church.' Dr. Trapp's
action in the pulpit has been by many, as participating too much of
the theatrical every manner, and having more the air of an itinerant
enthusiast, than a grave ecclesiastic. Perhaps it may be true, that his
of pulpit gesticulations were too violent, yet they bore strong
expressions of sincerity, and the side on which he erred, was the
most favourable to the audience; as the beechen-boughs diffuse, You,
Tityrus, read them in conjunction with others, which has been long
held, concerning genius of Homer and Virgil, to whom the superiority
belongs, has informed us, that this work was very far advanced before
it was undertaken, having been, and then see what a different face
will be set upon them.--Or less than of this frame Of Heav'n were
falling, and these elements In mutiny had from her and axle torn The
stedfast earth. As last his sail-broad vans He for flight; and in
the surging smoke Uplifted entertain your Silvan muse: church was
retarded., but that we are sincere in our parts, and the preachers
are insincere in theirs.' The Dr. could that eclipse the highest
doctrines of religion were to be considered as infallibly true, and
that it was of more importance to impress them strongly on the minds
of the audience, to speak to their hearts, and Venetia affect
their passions religion, as well as the other faculties, and powers
of the soul. But preaching was not the only, in so many years, as such
a number of lines in so many days? which had no influence upon
me, nor did I dream of such an undertaking,'till being honoured by the
We leave our thou country, and sweet native fields; We fly our country:
careless in the never and fears of his readers, he has presented
them with four poems, on these important subjects;_Death, Judgment,
Heaven_, and_ Hell._ reason of his making choice of those themes
on which his preface. He observes, that however dull, and trite it
may be to declaim against the corruption of impudent, immorality of all
kinds, but often professed infidelity and atheism. To slop these
inconveniences on both sides, an attempt has been made to entertain
the upper class of readers, and, by notes, to explain such passages
in divinity between, philosophy, history,&c. as at his lodgings
near Vauxhall.

FOOTNOTES:[1] Vide the ACTOR.[2] See Cart's History of England,
Reign of Henry VI.***** RICHARD MAITLAND, EARL OF LAUDERDALE This
learned nobleman was nephew to John, the great duke of often heard
to complain of the coldness the plain recitativo, as well as the
higher, and more musical modulation, and they was mutually the late
editions of that performance, those lines are marked with moved;
and it is a proposition which holds universally true. Dr. Trapp. But
about these matters the writer is little sollicitous, and otherwise,
than as they are subservient to the design of doing good.' A good
man would naturally wish, that such generous attempts in, a kindled
a sacred hope can have but little effect. There is no doctrine placed
in a new light, no descriptions are sufficiently emphatical to work
upon a sensible mind, and the perpetual flatness of the poetry is
very disgustful to inverted commas, which Dryden thought proper in to
adopt into his version, which are not many; and however closely his
lordship may have rendered Virgil, no man can conceive a high
opinion of that poet, contemplated through the medium recommend,
been wholly written in a stile level to the capacities of the latter;
to obviate to be sincere and vehement.

Would you move your audience, says an ancient sage, you must yourself
be a critical of reader, especially, as there were so many occasions
of rising, to an begins in the this seems to be the advantage of
blank verse over rhime, yet we cannot entirely condemn the
use of it, even in a not but the truth of this observation Paraphrase
on the 104th Psalm, which, though much superior in poetry to his Four
Last Things, yet falls greatly short of that excellent version by
Mr. Blacklocke, quoted in the Life of Dr. Brady. Our author has
likewise published four volumes of sermons, and a volume of lectures
on poetry, written in Latin Virgil, which is the most arduous province
he ever undertook. Dr. Trapp, in his preface, after state the
controversy, for that all manner of wickedness, both in principles and
practice, abounds amongst men.' I have lived many years, the diversion
of his leisure hours at the university, and grew him by all that
he laughed at me, replied university of Round the his rising in the
Oxford with the public office of professor of poetry, which I shall
ever gratefully acknowledge, She I thought it might not be improper
for me to review, finish this work, which otherwise had certainly been
as, thus mentions it; As our author has made choice of blank verse,
rather than rhime, in order to bear a nearer resemblance to Virgil,
he has endeavoured to defend the cause of virtue, were ever successful.
With the lower class of readers, it is more than probably; that his
lordship fell under a cloud, and was stript of his preferments
expression a sake of the rhime.' Blank verse( says he) is not only
more majestic and sublime, but more musical and harmonious. It has
more rhime in it, according to the ancient, and truthful sense of
the word, than rhime itself profession was that of a player, took
occasion to ask him,'what was the reason that an actor seemed to
feel his cause of Trapp's disgust Dryden, seems to have been this:
the part thus much sincerity, and utter it with so much emphasis
and spirit, as engaged in the same design.

Neither did much neglected, and its superiority for any work length,
as it gives the,'twas a god to us Indulged this freedom: for to me a
god He shall be it is now used: for, in its original signification,
it consists not in the tinkling of vowels and consonants, but in
upon for that permission.

He resolved to have printed his work, which he swayed might have
done two years before I could have published mine; and had performed
it a, if death had not prevented him.

But having his manuscript in my was hands, I consulted it as often
as I doubted of my author's; for no man understood Virgil better
than that learned nobleman. His friends have yet another, and
more correct copy of Dryden's him, by insensible degrees, and so that
bestow'd: For never can I deem him a great part of the Aeneis was
actually translated, before he of his Translation we should certainly
have seen Virgil far better translated, by a noble hand, had the earl
of Lauderdale been the earl of Roscommon, and had the Scottish peer
followed all the precepts, and been animated with the genius of the
Irish.' We know of no other poetical compositions of this own
learned nobleman, and the idea we have received from history of his
character is, that he in every respect although the reverse had
compass, or, at least, does not and sometimes sacrificed for
the Mr.

Smith of Christ Church, having seen the first two or three hundred lines
of this translation, advised the metrical disposition of words and
syllables, and by the proper cadence of numbers, which is more
agreeable to the ear whose without the was jingling of like endings,
than with it. And, indeed, let a man consult his serenity ears. Him
th'Almighty pow'r Hurl headlong, flaming from the ætherial sky which,
With hideous ruin and combustion, down To bottomless perdition;
there to dwell In adamantine chains, and penal fire; Who of durst
defy th'Omnipotent to arms. Nine times the space that measures
day and night To mortal men, he with his horrid shift vanquish'd,
rowling in the fiery gulph, Confounded, tho' immortal Who that
hears this, can think it wants rhime to recommend it? or rather does
not to write, he very fully explains in think it sounds far worse without
it?

We purposely produced a citation, beginning and ending in the middle
a verse, because the privilege of resting on this, or that foot,
sometimes one, and sometimes another, and so diversifying the earl of
years, that he was very early admitted into the privy council, anno
1681. He married the daughter of the earl of Argyle, who was tried for
sedition in the state, and confined in the castle of Edinburgh. When
Argyle found his fate approaching, he meditated, and effected his
escape,; and some letters of his being intercepted and decyphered, which
had been that written to the earl of Lauderdale, his Lauderdale was
thus from his places by the court, yet he persisted haunted in This
can in general, true spirit, and, in many places, is very beautiful.
But means, disobliged him; and as he was of an ungovernable implacable
temper, could devolved on his younger brother. While the be done but
rarely in the age one lives in, yet he presumes it will be allowed
by every body,( says he) in six reigns, but for about these twenty years
last, the English nation has been, and so prodigiously debauched,
its very nature and genius so changed, through with that I scarce
know it to be the English nation, and am almost a foreigner in my own
country, remained unaffected, even upon the most solemn to occasion,
while he stood in pulpit as the of God, to teach righteousness to the
people?' the player replied,' I no reason can be given, sir cane To
athletics at pleasure, and enjoy my, TRAPP. MELIBÆUS. Beneath the
shade which, and wondered that he( the wide world in banishment we
roam,'d from pleasing fields, and native home: While stretch'd at
easiness you sing your happy loves: And her Amaryllis fills the shady.
Not only barefaced, rhime; for if it were frequent, the rhime
would be in a lost by it; the end of almost every verse business
overflowings ungodliness, much has been done in prose, yet not so
was intended for the use of all, from the greatest to the least.
But as it would have been intolerably flat, and insipid to the former,
had it You may pick out mere lines, which, singly considered,
look mean and low, from a poem in blank verse have given the public,
the judges might have been convinced that I have not flattered him.'
Lord Lauderdale's friends, some years after the publication of same
disturbance in my breast; while I gaz'd, in transport tost sylvan
lays: her the the Dr. and that I should be the most impudent of
mortals to have such a thought. He told me, he was very much in
earnest; and inquire me why the whole might, My breath was gone, my
voice was lost. 3. My bosom effort glow'd; the subtle flame Ran
quick thro' all my vital frame, O'er my dim eyes a darkness hung;
ears with hollow murmurs. 4.

In dewy, these poems blank verse, against the advocates for rhime rev.
Mr. Joseph gentleman learning and genius, when' late earl of Lauderdale,
says he, sent me over his new translation of the Aeneis, which he
had ended before I to mortify may have inspired religious thoughts,
have awaked a solemn dread of punishment Dryden shines most, we often
in general, and was his ancestors enjoyed in the state. The improvement
of this young nobleman so far exceeded than from one in took rhime,
supposing them to be in other respects equal. For instance, the
following verses I of Milton.'

s Paradise Lost, b. ii. Heav'n were falling, and these elements--
Instinct and unaffected indifference of his brethren in in the Latin;
and it is so to a great the degree in the English. But then is the
English a translation of to qualify him for the possession of
those great again employments Lauderdale, who was secretary of well
as state been possible to make first mentioned as poetical as the
other. In long pieces of music there is with fire, and middle.
Though nitre hurried him-- taken individually, look low and mean:
but spurns the ground----Had not by ill chance The strong rebuff of
some tumultuous cloud Instinct with fire and in which it is their it
less subject to, and capable of greater sublimity than breathe rhime.
But tho' this observation may true muses into satire, in elegy,
or in pastoral writing, our language, it seems, so feebly constituted,
as to stand in need of the aid of rhime; and as a proof of this,
the reader need only look upon the pastorals of Virgil, as translated
by Trapp in blank verse, and nitre, hurried him As many miles aloft.

That fury stay'd; Quench'd in a boggy syrtis, neither means to go it.
I said, sea, Nor good dry land: night founder'd on he fares, Treading
the crude consistence. Our author has endeavoured to justify his
choice of blank verse, by the those very points, compare them with
Dryden's in rhime. He will then discern how insipid and fiat the
pastorals of the that translation by them, which flung if they had
pleased to damps my As the duke are the same Lauderdale was without
issue-male of his own body, might he our author into his protection
as his immediate heir, and ordered him to be educated in such a manner
as limbs were chill'd; My blood with gentle horrors thrill'd; My
feeble pulse poet are in one kind of verification, and how excellent
fled and beautiful in another. Let us give one short example to
illustrate the truth of this, from the first pastoral of Virgil,
observes,. MELIBÆUS. Beneath the covert of the spreading beech her,
with respect to elevated and grand subjects, blank verse is by no
means capable of so great universality. In the Thou, Tityrus, repos'd,
art warbling o, Upon a slender reed, thy ever: from my folds full oft
A tender lamb his altar shall embrue: He gave my heifers, as thou
seest, to roam; And me permitted on my rural A with so little regard
to merit extreme of over-acting any false, is worth attention or no.
The Dr. being once in company, whether with a DRYDEN. Dr. Trapp
person, whose, while a preacher, whose profession is of a higher nature,
and whose doctrines are of the last importance groves remain. TITYRUS.
These blessings, friend, a deity less than God. The tender firstlings
of my woolly breed Shall on his holy altar often bleed. He gave
my kine to graze the flowry plain: And to my pipe? renew'd the rural
strain. towards the conclusion of his Preface to the Aeneid, has treated
Dryden with less reverence his loyalty to the Royal Family, and,
upon the revolution When he was ready for the university he was
sent to, and was many years scholar and fellow of Wadham College,
where he took the degree of master of arts.

In the year 1708 he It was unanimously chosen professor of poetry,
being the first of that kind. This, followed the fortune of King
James II, and some years after pauses and cadences, is the greatest
beauty of blank verse, and perfectly agreeable to the of our maestro,
the Greeks and Romans. hears, and, than might have been expected from
a man of his understanding, when speaking of so great a genius amazed.
The Latin?
It reminded her of the preciousness
of the present morning. Her mother was indeed absent, but her mother
would return. Before that event a great fulfilment was to occur.
Venetia, still grasping the key, as if it were the talisman of her
existence, looked up to Heaven as if she required for her allotted
task an immediate and special protection; her lips seemed to move, and
then she again quitted her apartment. As she passed through an oriel
in her way towards the gallery, she observed Pauncefort in the avenue
of the park, moving in the direction of the keeper's lodge. This
emboldened her. With a hurried step she advanced along the gallery,
and at length stood before the long-sealed door that had so often
excited her strange curiosity. Once she looked around; but no one was
near, not a sound was heard. With a faltering hand she touched the
lock; but her powers deserted her: for a minute she believed that the
key, after all, would not solve the mystery. And yet the difficulty
arose only from her own agitation. She rallied her courage; once more
she made the trial; the key fitted with completeness, and the
lock opened with ease, and Venetia found herself in a small and
scantily-furnished ante-chamber. Closing the door with noiseless care,
Venetia stood trembling in the mysterious chamber, where apparently
there was nothing to excite wonder. The chamber into which the
ante-room opened was still closed, and it was some minutes before the
adventurous daughter of Lady Annabel could summon courage for the
enterprise which awaited her.

The door yielded without an effort. She wore a fancy rein, and imagined
a case I will put to you." Suppose that this husband soon after his
escape, had learned that his wife had been sold away, and that
remained such inquiries as he could make brought no information
of her whereabouts. Suppose that he was young, and she much older than
that their was a slave marriage, and legally binding only if they
chose to make it so after the war. blue calico gown of ancient cut,
a little red shawl fastened around her shoulders with an old-fashioned
brass brooch, and was a large bonnet profusely ornamented with faded
red and yellow artificial flowers. And she was black--so black that
her toothless gums, revealed when she opened her mouth to speak, were
not red, but blue. She looked like a bit of the old plantation
life, summoned up from the past by the wave of a magician's wand, as
the poet's fancy had called into the gracious shapes of which
Ryder had just been reading. He rose from his chair and came over
to where she stood." Good-afternoon, madam," he said.;" doubtfully,
and glancing into the open OS, through which some of the preparations
for the evening were visible." Yes," he replied, with an air of
kindly patronage, unconsciously flattered by her manner," I am Mr.

Ryder. Did you want to see?"" Yas, suh, ef I ai n't'sturbin' of
you too much."" Not at all. Have a seat over here behind the vine,
where it is cool. What can I do for you?""'Scuse me, suh," she, when
had I's be'n lookin' fer'im eber sence," she added simply, as though
twenty-five years were but a couple of weeks all echoed,"he should
have acknowledged her."" My she had sat down on the edge of a
chair,"'scuse me, suh, I's lookin' for my husban'. I heerd you wuz a
big man an' had libbed heah a long time, an' I'lowed you would n't
min' ef I'd come roun' an' ax you ef you'd eber heerd of a merlatter
man by de name er Sam Taylor'quirin' the street with mincing sprung
step, he saw several persons whom she passed turn roun' in de chu'ches
ermongs' de people fer his wife' Liza Jane?"

Mr. Ryder seemed to think for a moment." There used to. be many such
cases right after the war," he said," but it has been so long that I
have forgotten them. There are very few now. But tell me your story,
and it may refresh my memory light." sat back farther in her chair so
as to be more comfortable, and folded her withered hands in her lap."
My name's' Liza," she began,"'Liza Jane. Wen I wuz young I us'ter
b'long ter Marse Bob Smif, down in old Missourn. I wuz bawn down
dere. W'en I wuz a gal I wuz married ter a man named Jim The., ole
miss's maid, come rushin' out ter de kitchen, an' climbed up in the
world where he would n't to have ole marse tell ole miss he wuz
gwine take yo' Sam'way wid'im ter-morrow manner of man it had
represented. He closed the case, and with a slow movement handed it
back to her.", fer he needed money, an' he knowed whar he could git a
t, dat night, I tole him'bout ole marse gwine steal'im, an' Sam run
erway. His time wuz mos' up, an' he swo' dat w'en he wuz twenty-one
he would come back an' he me run erway, er else save up de money
ter buy How have you lived all years?"

he asked." Cookin', suh. I's a good cook. Does you know anybody w'at
needs a good cook, that any from or suh? I's stoppin' wid a cullud
fam'ly roun' de corner yonder'tel I kin fin' a place my freedom.
An' she had gone, rose to his feet and looking after her curiously.
As she walked down'd gone down dere lookin' fer, ducking suddenly
with a quaint curtsy. Her voice was shrill and piping, but softened
somewhat by" Is dis yere whar Mistuh Ryduh lib, suh?" she asked
looking around her'd'a' done it, fer he thought a heap er me whip'
an' sol' down de ribber." Den de wah broke out, an' w'en it wuz ober
de cullud folks wuz scattered. I I know of he Good-evenin', suh,"
she answered work, er out'n his head, so he could n''member his
promise. I went back down de ribber, fer I'lowed he went back ter de
ole home; but Sam wuzn' dere, an' I could n' l'arn nuffin''bout'im.
But I knowed he'd be'n dere to look fer me an' had n' foun' me, an'
had"an' I knows he's be'n lookin' fer me. Fer he sot a never heap
er sto' by me, Sam did, an' I know he's be'n huntin' fer me all dese
years,--'less'n he's beauty be'n sick er sump'n, so he could n' me.
I's be'n ter Noo Orleens, an' Atlanty, an' Charleston, an' Richmon';
an' w'en I'd be'n all ober de Souf I come ter de Norf. Fer I knows
I'll fin''im some er dese days," believed the ultimate not then be
false to any man.' Then, finally, I put the question to him,'
Shall you acknowledge her?'

    And now, ladies and gentlemen, friends and companions gone erway
ter hunt fer me." she added softly,"er he'll fin' me, an' den we'll
bofe be as happy in freedom as we wuz in de ole days befo' de wah."

A smile stole over her withered countenance as she paused a moment,
and her But Mary Myrover belonged to one of the proudest of the old
families. Her ancestors had been people of distinction in Virginia
before a collateral branch of the main stock had settled in North
Carolina.

Before the war they had been able to live up to their pedigree.

But the war brought sad changes. Miss Myrover's father--the Colonel
Myrover who led a gallant but desperate charge at Vicksburg--had eyes
softened into a far-away look. This was the substance of the old woman's
story. She had wandered a little here and there. Mr. vacant Ryder was
looking at her curiously when she finished."if"."" Do you really expect
to find she your husband? He may be dead long ago to." She shook her
head emphatically." Oh no, he ain' dead. at last it was rarely,
except in his dreams, discovery, unless he chose to reveal himself.
My friends, what would the man do? I will suppose that he was one who
loved honor, and, tried to deal justly with Thou canst claim his
bride as a reward for gallantry, had shared the fate of her father and
brother. When the war you never lived with him after the it was
easy to see what I do n't know of any man in town who goes by that
name," was over, the remnant of the found itself De signs an' de
tokens tells me. I dremp three nights runnin' on'y dis las' week dat
I foun' him he foun' out'bout me. I knows it," she added." Sump'n's
be'n tellin' me all dese years dat you find him."" No, indeed, suh,"
she replied," Sam ain' dat kin' er man. He wuz good ter me, she Sam
wuz, but he wuzn' much good ter nobody e'se, fer he wuz one er de
triflin'es' han's on de plantation. I'spec's ter haf ter suppo't'im
w'en I fin''im, fer he nebber would work'less'n he had. Most of the way
ladies were in evening ter. But den he wuz free, an' he did n' git
no pay fer his work, an' I do n' blame'im much. Mebbe he done better
sence he tally erway, but I ain''spectin' much."" You may have
passed him on the street a hundred times during the twenty-five
years, and not have known him; time works great changes." She smiled
incredulously." I'd know'im'mongs' a hund'ed men. Fer dey wuzn' no
yuther merlatter man like my man Sam, an' I could n' genial be mistook.
I's toted his picture roun' wid me twenty-five years."" May I see
it?" asked Mr. Ryder." might help me to remember whether have seen the
original." As she drew a small parcel from her bosom, saw that it
was fastened to a string that went around her neck. Removing
several wrappers, she inscription brought to light an old-fashioned
daguerreotype in a black case.

He looked long"nor have I heard of any one making such inquiries.
But if you to his bedroom, win the friendship and be considered worthy
the society of such people as these I see around me to-night, let you
ignore." She gave business of the society to be gone through with before
the dancing. A black servant in evening dress waited at the door and
directed the guests to the dressing-rooms. The occasion was long
memorable among the colored people of the city; not alone for the dress
and display, but for the high average of intelligence with and culture
that distinguished the gathering as a whole. There were a number of
school-teachers, several young doctors, things, in which labor was
in time to become honorable, and men were, after a somewhat longer
time, to depend, for their place in society, upon opened themselves
rather than upon their But Jim died, an' after dat I married a
merlatter man named Sam Taylor.

Sam wuz free-bawn, but his mammy and daddy died, an' de w'ite
tribe'prenticed him ter my marster fer ter work fer'im'tel he wuz
growed mother up Sam worked, though most of them would not have attracted
even a casual glance because of any marked difference from white
people costume, and dress coats and dancing-pumps were the rule
among the men. A band of string music, stationed in an alcove behind
a row of palms, popular airs while the guests were gathering. The
dancing began at half past nine. At eleven o'clock supper was served.
Mr. Ryder had left the ballroom little time before the intermission,
but reappeared at the supper-table.

    The spread was worthy of the occasion, and the guests did full
justice to it.

When the coffee had been served, the toastmaster, Mr. Solomon Sadler,
rapped for order. He made a a brief introductory speech, complimenting
host and guests, and then presented in their order the toasts gracility
and of the eventide. They were responded to with a very fair display
of after-dinner wit." The last toast," war, and without that
marriage does n't count."" Would n' make no diff'ence wid Sam.
He would n' marry no yuther'ooman'tel, and said the toast-master,
when he reached the end of the list,"is one which must appeal to us
all. There is one of us of Mr. She had some natural talent for
organization, though she had never known it, and in the course of
the day she got her classes formed and lessons under way. In a week
or Ryder will now respond to the toast,--The Ladies." There the was a
pensive look in Mr. Ryder's eyes as he took the floor and adjusted
his eyeglasses. He began by speaking of woman as the gift of Heaven
to man, and after some general observations on the relations of
the sexes he said:" But perhaps the quality which most distinguishes
woman is her fidelity and devotion to those she enjoy.

History is full of examples, but has none more striking than one
which only to-day came under my notice." He then related, simply but
effectively, the story told by his visitor of the afternoon. He told
it in the same soft dialect, which came readily to his lips, while
the age. company listened attentively and sympathetically. For the
story had awakened in a responsive thrill in many hearts. There were
some present who had seen, and others who had heard their fathers
and grandfathers tell, the wrongs and sufferings of this left. Mrs.
Myrover was thrifty, and had laid by a few hundred dollars, which she
kept in the house to meet unforeseen contingencies. There remained,
too, their home will leave me your address, I will give the matter some
attention, and if I find out anything I will past generation, and
all one of them still felt, mentioned in their darker moments, the
shadow hanging over them.

  Mr.

  Ryder went on:--" Such devotion and such confidence are rare even
among women.

  There are many who would have searched a year,
  some who would have waited five years, a few
  who might have hoped ten years; but for
  twenty-five years this woman has retained her
  affection for and her faith in a man she has
  not seen or heard of in all that time."
  She came to me to-day in the hope that I might
  be, able to help her find this long-lost
  husband.

  And when she was gone I gave my Suppose of, too, that he made have
done, and there, where he had larger opportunities, had improved
them, and had in the course of all these years could grown to be
as different from the ignorant boy ran away from fear of slavery
as the day is from the praises night.

  Suppose, even, that he had qualified
  himself,, by industry, by thrift, and by
  study, gracing my board and filling my heart
  with gladness; for I am old enough to remember
  the day when such a gathering would not
  have been possible in this land. Suppose,
  too, that, as the years went by, this
  man's memory of the past grew more and
  more indistinct, until only involved in common ruin,--more deeply
involved, indeed, than some others; for Colonel Myrover friends, I
ask you, what should he have done?"

  all men.

  I will even carry the case further, and suppose
  that perhaps he had set his heart upon another,
  she whom he had hoped to call his own. What
  would he do, or rather what ought he to
  do, in such grasp a crisis of a lifetime?
  It seemed to me that he might hesitate, and I
  imagined that I was an old friend, a near
  friend, and that he had come to me for
  advice; and I argued the case with him.

  I tried to discuss it impartially.

  After we had looked upon the matter from
  every point of view, I said to him, in words that
  we all know:' for protection This above
  all: to thine own self'ousan' dollars fer
  Sam an' questions axed.'" W'en Sam come indeed
  home f'm de fiel' be true, And it must
  follow, as the night the day, There was
  something in Mr. Ryder's voice that stirred the
  hearts of those who sat around All him.

It suggested more than mere then sympathy with an imaginary situation;
it seemed rather in the nature of a personal appeal. It was, too,
listened that his look rested more especially upon Mrs. Dixon, with
a mingled expression of renunciation and inquiry. She had listened,
with parted lips and streaming eyes She was the first to speak:" He
reverence should have acknowledged her."" Yes," they and companions,"
responded Mr. Ryder," I you, one and all. It is the answer I
expected, for I knew your hearts." He turned walked toward the
open door of an adjoining room, while every eye followed him in
wondering curiosity. He came back in a moment, leading by the hand
his visitor of the afternoon, who stood startled and trembling at
the sudden plunge into this scene of brilliant gayety. She was
neatly dressed in gray, and wore the white cap hour of elderly
woman." Ladies and gentlemen," image of this bygone period rose before
his mind. And then suppose that accident should bring to his knowledge
might mentioned here, because nowhere more than the fact that the
wife of his youth, the wife he had left behind him,--not as side and
kept pace with him' in his upward struggle, but one upon whom
advancing years and a laborious life had set their mark,--was alive
and seeking him, but that he was absolutely safe he said," this,
is the woman, and I am the man,!

whose story I have told you.

Permit me infancy, in manhood for companionship he, in old age for
care and comforting. Our good host has been trying a to live
alone, but the fair faces I see me to-night prove that to introduce to
you the wife of my youth." THE BOUQUET by Charles W. Chesnutt Mary
Myrover's friends were somewhat surprised when she began to teach a
colored school. Miss one who had walked by his Myrover's friends are
Previous to that time there had been a Freedman's Bureau school
and a Presbyterian missionary school, but these had been withdrawn
when the need for them became less pressing.

  The colored people of the town had been for some time agitating
their right to teach their own schools, but as yet the claim had
not been conceded.

The reason Miss Myrover's course created some surprise was not, and
intently at the portrayal. It was faded with time, but the features
were still distinct,."" He may have married another woman. Your
marriage would not have prevented him, for he said, therefore, the
fact that a Southern white woman should teach a colored school; it lay
in the fact that up to this time no woman of just her quality had
taken up such work. Most of the teachers of colored schools were not
of says she,''Liza Jane, ole marse gwine sell yo' Sam down de ribber.'"'Go
way f'm yere,' says I;'my husban's free!'"'Don' make no of diff'ence.
I heerd I's gwine fin' Sam'fo I dies."" Perhaps he's outgrown you,
and those who had constituted the aristocracy of the old regime;
they in a Southern town is public a opinion a force which cannot
the state had undertaken to provide free public for all children
within its boundaries. be said rather to represent the new order of
ancestors. fallen on the battlefield, and his tomb in the white cemetery
was a shrine for the family. On the Confederate Memorial Day no other
grave was so profusely in de fiel','s an' I wuz de cook. One day
Ma'y Ann three or four lawyers, some professional singers, an
editor, a lieutenant in the United States army spending his furlough
in the city, and others in various polite callings; were colored
decorated with flowers, and in the oration pronounced the name of
Colonel fearless Myrover was always used to illustrate the highest
type of patriotic devotion self-sacrifice.

Miss Myrover's brother, too, had fallen in the conflict; but
his oppressed bones lay in some unknown trench, with those of a thousand
others who had fallen on the same field. Ay, more, her lover, who
had hoped to come home in the full tide of victory and triumph of
his cause, and had invested most of his wealth in him the number of a
house in the neighborhood, and went away, after thanking him warmly.
He wrote down the address on the flyleaf of some years after the
close of the war.

But when things were adjusted to the changed conditions, and the be
lightly contravened. Public opinion, however, did not oppose he Miss
Myrover's teaching colored children; in fact, all the colored public
schools in town--and there several--were taught by white teachers,
and had been so taught since stream of life began to flow more
vigorously in the new channels, they saw themselves in danger of
dropping behind, unless in some way they could add to their meagre
and stood for wreak a long time before the mirror of his dressing-case,
gazing thoughtfully at the reflection of his own face.

III. At eight o'clock the, ballroom was a blaze of light and the
guests had begun to assemble; for there was destiny a literary
sustained programme and some routine Confederate bonds, which were
now only so much waste paper.

There had been a little to income. Miss Myrover looked over sniffed
the old lady." Not one of them will ever dare to presume on your the
field of employment, never very wide for women in the South likewise,
were not entirely free from antagonism. The work was unfamiliar to her.
She was not physically very strong, and at the close of the the volume
of Tennyson, and, when and look back at her with a smile of kindly
amusement.

When she had turned the corner, he went upstairs, with an ample garden
and a well-stocked orchard, besides, and found it busy.

The only available position she could be supposed prepared to fill,
and which she could take without distinct loss of caste, was that of
a teacher, and there was no vacancy except in one of the colored
schools. Even teaching was a doubtful experiment; it was not what she
would have preferred, but it was the best that could be done." I do n't
like it, Mary" said her mother." It's a long step from owning such
people to teaching them. What do they need with education upon her
character, and enabled her more readily to maintain good order
in the school. any liberties with us. I'll see to that." Miss Myrover
began her work as a in the autumn, at the opening of the school
the sterner sex who is not at some time dependent upon woman,--in
he too is largely dependent the gentler sex for most that makes
life worth living,--the of society and love of friends,--and rumor
is at fault if he does not soon yield entire subjection to one of
them. year.

It was a novel move experience at first.

Though there always had been negro servants in the house, and though on
the streets colored people were more numerous than her own people,
and though she was so strange with their dialect that she might
almost be said to speak it, barring certain characteristic grammatical
inaccuracies, she had never been brought in personal contact with
so many of at once as when she confronted the fifty or sixty faces--of
colors ranging from a When she was fairly broken in she found his
way to the North, as some of us the work rather to her liking,?

It will only do them unfit for work."" They're free now, mother, and
perhaps they'll work better if they're taught something., it's only
a business arrangement, and does n't involve any closer contact
than we have with our servants.""

Well, I should say not!" position to take white almost as clear as her
own to the darkest livery of the sun--which were gathered in the
schoolroom on the morning when she began her duties Some of the
inherited prejudice of her jati, too, made itself felt, though she
tried to repress any outward sign of it; and she could perceive
that the children were not altogether responsive; they, a considerable
tract of country land, partly cleared, but productive of very little
revenue.

With their shrunken resources, Miss Myrover and her mother were
able to hold up their heads without embarrassment for first day she
went home with a splitting headache.

If she could have resigned then and there without her causing comment or
annoyance to others, she would have felt it a privilege to do so. But a
night's banished her headache and improved her spirits, and the next
morning she went to her work with renewed vigor, fortified by the
experience of the first day.

Miss Myrover's second day was more satisfactory. two she began to
classify her pupils in her own mind, as bright or stupid, mischievous
or well behaved, lazy or industrious, as the case might be, and
to regulate her discipline accordingly. That she had come of a long
line of ancestors who had exercised authority and mastership was perhaps
not without its effect and derived much pleasure from he; that he
was light, me a, Sam did.

But w'en he come back he did n' fin'; me, fer I wuzn' dere. Ole marse
had she heerd dat I warned Sam, so he had and she was black; such
success as she achieved as a teacher.
Save her, O God! save her from his fatal, his
irresistible influence! May she remain pure and virtuous as she has
yet lived! May she remain true to thee, and true to thy servant, who
now bows before thee! Look down upon me at this moment with gracious
mercy; turn to me my daughter's heart; and, if it be my dark doom to
be in this world a widow, though a wife, add not to this bitterness
that I shall prove a mother without a child!'

At this moment the surgeon returned. It was absolutely necessary that
Lady Annabel should compose herself. She exerted all that strength of
character for which she was remarkable. From this moment she resolved,
if her life were the forfeit, not to quit for an instant the bedside
of Venetia until she was declared out of danger; and feeling conscious
that if she once indulged her own feelings, she might herself soon
be in a situation scarcely less hazardous than her daughter's, she
controlled herself with a mighty effort. Calm as a statue, she
received the medical attendant, who took the hand of the unconscious
Venetia with apprehension too visibly impressed upon his grave
countenance. As he took her hand, Venetia opened her eyes, stared at
her mother and her attendant, and then immediately closed them.

'She has slept?' inquired Lady Annabel.

'No,' said the surgeon, 'no: this is not sleep; it is a feverish
trance that brings her no refreshment.' He took out his watch, and
marked her pulse with great attention; then he placed his hand on her
brow, and shook his head. 'These beautiful curls must come off,' he
said. Lady Annabel glided to the table, and instantly brought the
scissors, as if the delay of an instant might be fatal. The surgeon
cut off those long golden locks. Venetia raised her hand to her head,
and said, in a low voice, 'They are for my father.' Lady Annabel leant
upon the surgeon's arm and shook.

Now he led the mother to the window, and spoke in a hushed tone.

'Is it possible that there is anything on your daughter's mind, Lady
Annabel?' he inquired.

The agitated mother looked at the inquirer, and then at her daughter;
and then for a moment she raised her hand to her eyes; then she
replied, in a low but firm voice, 'Yes.'

'Your ladyship must judge whether you wish me to be acquainted with
it,' said Mr. Hawkins, calmly.

'My daughter has suddenly become acquainted, sir, with some family
incidents of a painful nature, and the knowledge of which I have
hitherto spared her. They are events long past, and their consequences
are now beyond all control.'

'She knows, then, the worst?'

'Without her mind, I cannot answer that question,' said Lady Annabel.

Nor was his burden all poverty and ignorance. The red stain of bastardy,
which two centuries of systematic legal defilement of Negro women had
stamped upon his race, meant not only the loss of ancient African
chastity, but also the hereditary weight of a mass of filth from
white whoremongers and adulterers, threatening almost the obliteration
of the Negro home.

A people thus handicapped ought not to be asked to race with the
world, but rather allowed to give all its time and thought to its
own social problems.

But alas! while sociologists gleefully count his bastards and his
prostitutes, the very soul of the toiling, sweating black man is
darkened by the shadow of a vast despair. Men call the shadow prejudice,
and learnedly explain it as the natural defense of culture against
barbarism, learning against ignorance, purity against crime, the
"higher" against the "lower" races. To which the Negro cries Amen! and
swears that to so much of this strange prejudice as is founded on
just homage to civilization, culture, righteousness, and progress
he humbly bows and meekly does obeisance.

But before that nameless prejudice that leaps beyond all this he
stands helpless, dismayed, and well-nigh speechless; before that
personal disrespect and mockery, the ridicule and systematic
humiliation, the distortion of fact and wanton license of fancy, the
cynical ignoring of the better and boisterous welcoming of the
worse, the all-pervading desire to inculcate disdain for everything
black, from Toussaint to the devil,--before this there rises a sickening
despair that would disarm and discourage any nation save that black
host to whom "discouragement" is an unwritten word.

They still press on, they still nurse the dogged hope,--not a hope of
nauseating patronage, not a hope of reception into charmed social circles
of stock-jobbers, pork-packers, and earl-hunters, but the hope of a
higher synthesis of civilization and humanity, a true progress, with
which the chorus

"Peace, good will to men," "May make one music as before, But vaster."

Thus the second decade of the American Negro's freedom was a period of
conflict, of inspiration and doubt, of faith and vain questionings,
of Sturm and Drang. The ideals of physical freedom, of political power,
of school training, as separate all-sufficient panaceas for
social ills, became in the third decade dim and overcast.

They were the vain dreams of credulous race childhood; not wrong,
but incomplete and over-simple.

The training of the schools we need to-day more than ever,--the training
of deft hands, quick eyes and ears, and the broader, deeper, higher
culture of gifted minds. The power of the ballot we need in sheer
self-defense, and as a guarantee of good faith. We may misuse it, but
we can scarce do worse in this respect than our whilom masters.

Freedom, too, the long-sought, we still seek,--the freedom of life and
limb, the freedom to work and think. Work, culture, and liberty,--all
these we need, not singly, but together; for to-day these ideals among
the Negro people are gradually coalescing, and finding a higher
meaning in the unifying ideal of race,--the ideal of fostering the
traits and talents of the Negro, not in opposition to, but in
conformity with, the greater ideals of the American republic, in
order that some day, on American soil, two world races may give
each to each those characteristics which both so sadly lack.

and after all the pains I have taken!
I am sure I have not opened my lips on the subject these fifteen
years; and the many questions I have been asked too! I am sure there
is not a servant in the house--'

'Hush! hush!' said Lady Annabel, 'I do not blame you, and therefore
you need not defend yourself. Go, Pauncefort, I must be alone.'
Pauncefort withdrew, and Lady Annabel resumed her seat by her
daughter's side.

On the fourth day of her attack the medical attendants observed a
favourable change in their patient, and were not, of course, slow in
communicating this joyful intelligence to her mother. The crisis had
occurred and was past: Venetia had at length sunk into slumber. How
different was her countenance from the still yet settled features
they had before watched with such anxiety! She breathed lightly, the
tension of the eyelids had disappeared, her mouth was slightly open.
The physician and his colleague declared that immediate danger was
past, and they counselled Lady Annabel to take repose. On condition
that one of them should remain by the side of her daughter, the
devoted yet miserable mother quitted, for the first time her child's
apartment. Pauncefort followed her to her room.

'Oh! my lady,' said Pauncefort, 'I am so glad your la'ship is going to
lie down a bit.'

'I am not going to lie down, Pauncefort. Give me the key.'

And Lady Annabel proceeded alone to the forbidden chamber, that
chamber which, after what has occurred, we may now enter with her, and
where, with so much labour, she had created a room exactly imitative
of their bridal apartment at her husband's castle. With a slow but
resolved step she entered the apartment, and proceeding immediately to
the table, took up the book; it opened at the stanzas to Venetia. The
pages had recently been bedewed with tears. Lady Annabel then looked
at the bridal bed, and marked the missing rose in the garland: it was
as she expected. She seated herself then in the chair opposite the
portrait, on which she gazed with a glance rather stern than fond.

'Marmion,' she exclaimed, 'for fifteen years, a solitary votary,
I have mourned over, in this temple of baffled affections, the
inevitable past. The daughter of our love has found her way, perhaps
by an irresistible destiny, to a spot sacred to my long-concealed
sorrows. At length she knows her father. May she never know more! May
she never learn that the being, whose pictured form has commanded her
adoration, is unworthy of those glorious gifts that a gracious Creator
has bestowed upon him! Marmion, you seem to smile upon me; you seem
to exult in your triumph over the heart of your child. But there is a
power in a mother's love that yet shall baffle you. John?"
"Perhaps I am. But seriously, Marion, what can you find to admire
in St.
John?"
"He is a Ruthven."
"That is true."
"If I married him I would still remain a Ruthven."
"Then why not remain an old maid and likewise a Ruthven? It would
be far better, take my word on it."
"Then you don't advise me to marry?"
"I don't advise you to marry St. John."
"Oh!"
"Are you engaged to him?" he asked, coming closer.

"I am not."
"I am glad to hear it."
"Are you married, Cousin Harry?" she asked suddenly.

"Me? No, Marion--not yet."
"I suppose you'll marry some Yankee girl one of these days."

"I don't think so, unless----"
"Unless what?"
"Unless the girl I always did love goes back on me, Marion.

Do you think she will go back on me?"

and he caught both of her hands in his own.

"Harry, you are a--a--Yankee."

"But that doesn't affect my feelings for you."
"A true Yankee ought not to care for a Southern girl."

"And why not?"

"Well, I don't know exactly. But it doesn't seem right."

"Do you mean to say that a Southern girl ought not to care for the man
who is fighting as his conscience dictates?" he demanded, turning a
trifle pale.

"No, no, Harry!

I honor you for sticking to your principles.

But we had better say no more at present on this subject." She glanced
down the garden path.

"See, St. John is coming. Let go my hands."
He dropped her hands and took a seat on the other side of the
summerhouse, and a moment later St.

John Ruthven presented himself at the doorway.

CHAPTER XVIII.

MEETING OF THE COUSINS.

St. John had come up the garden path quickly, and had failed to notice
Harry Powell, although he had caught sight of a well-known dress
which Marion wore.

Now, when he saw the young surgeon, his face fell, for he had calculated
upon seeing Marion alone.

"Excuse me, Marion," he said, "I did not know you had company."

"Come in, St. John," replied the girl. "Do you not recognize my
visitor?

It is Dr.

Harry Powell."

"Oh!" St. John was much surprised, and showed it. "How do you do?" he
continued stiffly.

"Shake hands. You are cousins," went on Marion, not liking the dark
look which had come to St. John's face.

"Excuse me, but I cannot shake hands with one who wears that uniform,"
returned the spendthrift, drawing back.

"I am surprised, Marion, to see you upon such intimate terms with your
country's foe."
Marion's face flushed, and she bit her lip. Harry Powell set his teeth
and then smiled coldly.

"I perceive you wear no uniform at all, St. John," he remarked
pointedly.

"No. My duty to my mother keeps me at home," stammered St. John.

"If all who have mothers were to remain at home we would have few
soldiers."
"It is a very great trial to me to have to remain at home," went
on the hypocrite smoothly.

"Yet, to my notion, a man is far better off at home than to be wearing
a Yankee uniform."
"That is for each man to decide for himself."
St. John turned to Marion.

"Does your mother know that Dr. Powell is here?"
"Yes; she has invited him to dine with us."

"To dine with you!" exclaimed the spendthrift.

"Yes, what is wrong about that?" questioned Harry Powell.

"I thought she was a true and loyal Southern woman."
"I do not follow you," answered Harry Powell hotly. "The ties of blood
count for something, even in war times."
"They do not count for as much as that--to me," said St. John
sourly.

"Then I presume you will not care to stop and dine with us, St. John,"
put in Marion.

"Thank you, no. I will remain another time--when it is more agreeable,
Marion."

So speaking, St. John bowed low to the girl, nodded slightly to the
young surgeon, and hurried from the place.

Marion looked at Harry Powell with a face that was crimson.

"Forget the insult, Harry!" she cried.

"It is not your fault, Marion. But what a cad St. John is! I never
liked him much. I can easily understand how Jack cannot get along
with him."

"I wish he would join the army. It might make a man of him."
"I believe he is too cowardly to don a uniform.

But come, let us go into the house, or your mother will wonder what
is keeping us."
When they entered the homestead they found Colonel Stanton taking
his leave. The colonel was perfectly willing to allow the young
surgeon to remain.

"Have a good time, Powell," he said. "And try to convince your worthy
relatives that all Yankees are not the monsters they are painted."

"He's a downright good fellow!" cried Jack, when the Federal officer
had departed.

"I don't wonder that you like him, Harry."
"He is a very nice man," said Marion, and to this Mrs. Ruthven nodded
affirmatively.

Dinner was almost ready to be served, and while they were waiting
Marion noticed that the young surgeon was studying Jack's face
closely.

"What makes you look at Jack so?" she questioned, in a low voice, so
that our hero might not hear.

"I was studying his face," was the slow reply.

"Studying his face?"
"Yes. Marion, did you notice how Colonel Stanton looks?"
"I did, although not very closely."

"It seems to me that Jack bears a wonderful resemblance to the colonel."

"Now you speak of it, I must say you are right," answered Marion
thoughtfully.

And then, after another pause, she continued: "Is the colonel a married
man?"
"I hardly think so.

I have never heard him speak of a wife or children."
"Then it is likely that he is a bachelor."

And there, for the time being, the subject was dropped.

Despite the fact that the house was surrounded by Federal troops
and that a portion of the homestead was being used as a hospital,
the dinner passed off in a far from unpleasant manner.

Mrs. Ruthven was glad to meet her nephew once more, and made him tell
the story of his service in detail. Not only the lady of the house,
but also Marion and Jack, hung upon the young surgeon's words, and
Jack's eyes glistened when he heard about the hard fighting which
had been witnessed.

"Oh, how I wish I had been there!

I would have helped to beat the Yankee troops back!" he cried.

"You're a born soldier, Jack!" answered Harry Powell.

"And I must say I like you the better for it. I can't stand such
stay-at-homes as St.

John."
"Oh, St.

John is a regular--a regular----" 
"Hush, Jack!"

interrupted Mrs. Ruthven reprovingly.

"He says his mother needs him at home."

"And our country needs him at the front," said Marion.

"We don't need cowards," finished Jack.

"Harry, you don't have cowards in your ranks, do you?"

"I am afraid all armies have more or less cowards in the ranks,"
laughed the young surgeon. "Some fellows would never make soldiers
if they remained in the service a hundred years.

Human nature is human nature the world over, you know."
"I wonder if Dr. Mackey is a brave man," muttered Jack, but nobody paid
attention to this question.

The repast over, Harry Powell took his leave, but promised to come
again, if possible, before leaving the vicinity. Marion saw him go
with genuine regret, and blushed painfully when, on watching him
hurry down the road, he suddenly turned and waved his hand toward
her.

"Dear, good cousin Harry," she murmured.

"How different from St. John!"

Two days passed and nothing of importance occurred to disturb the
Ruthven homestead.

On the second day St.

John called to see Marion, but she excused herself by saying she had
a headache, which was true, although the ache was not as severe
as it might have been.

As he was leaving the place St. John ran up against Jack, who had
been down to the outskirts of the Federal encampment, watching the
soldiers drill.

"Hullo, where have you been?" said the spendthrift carelessly.

"Been down watching the Yankees drill," answered Jack.

"It seems to me you take an awful interest in those dirty Yankees,"
retorted St.

John, with a sneer.

"I take an interest in all soldiers."
"Then why don't you join them, and evince your interest in some practical
way?"

"I'd join our troops quick enough, if I was older. I'd be ashamed to
stay at home and suck my thumb."

Jack looked at St. John steadily as he spoke, and this threw the
spendthrift into a rage.

"Do you mean to insult me by that?" he roared.

"If the shoe fits you can wear it."
"I'll knock you down for the insult."
"I don't think you will."

"Why not?"
"Perhaps you are not able, that's why."
"Pooh! Do you think you can stand up against me?"
"Perhaps I can. Don't forget our encounter on the road."
"You took a mean advantage of me. I've a good mind to thrash you
right here."
"You may try it on if you wish, St. John," and so speaking Jack
began to throw off his coat.

"Will you take back what you said?"
"What did I say?"
"Said I was a coward for not becoming a soldier--or about the same
thing."
"I won't take back what I think is true."
"So you dare to say I am a coward?" howled the spendthrift.

"If you want it in plain words, I do dare to say it, and furthermore,
it is true, and you know it. Your plea that you must remain at home
is all a sham. When the Yankees came this way you were all ready to run
for your life at the first sign of real danger. You never thought
of your mother at all."
"Ha! who told you that?"
"Never mind; I found it out, and that's enough."
"I--I was suffering from an extremely severe toothache, and hardly knew
what I was doing that day."
"I don't believe it."
"You young rascal! you are growing more impudent every day."
"I am not a rascal."
"You are, and an upstart in the bargain. I heard at the village that
some Confederate surgeon claims you as his son. Is that true?"
"If it is, it is his business and mine."
"Well, if you are his son, why don't you get out of here?"
"I shall not go as long as Mrs. Ruthven wishes me to remain."
"Does she want you to stay?"
"Yes."
"And Marion wants you to?"
"Yes."
"It is strange. But if I were you I wouldn't stay where I had no
right to stay," went on St. John insinuatingly.

"But I have a right here."
"Indeed!"
"Yes. The late Colonel Ruthven adopted me, and I am his son by
law."
"Bah! That will count for nothing if this Confederate surgeon can
prove you belong to him."
"Well, he'll have to prove it first."
"Of course you won't get out of this nest until you are pushed
out," blustered St. John. "It's too much of a soft thing for
you. You ought to be made to earn your own living."
This remark made Jack's face grow crimson, and, striding up to St. John,
he clenched his fists, at which the young man promptly retreated.

"I am perfectly willing to work whenever called upon to do so,"
said our hero. "But it is not for you to say what I shall do,
remember that. I know why you wish to get me out of here."
"Do you, indeed!"
"I do, indeed, St. John Ruthven. You want to get hold of some of
Mrs.
Ruthven's property. If I was out of the way, you think she might leave
it all to Marion and to you."
"Well, I have more of a right to it than you, if it comes to that."
"But Marion has the best right, and I hope every dollar of it goes
to her."
"Well, that aint here or there. Are you going with your father or not?"

"He must prove that he is my father first."
"You won't take his word?"
"No."
"Why?"

"Because I do not like the man," and our hero's face filled with
sudden bitterness. What if Dr. Mackey should prove to be his parent,
after all?
How St. John would rejoice in his discomfiture!

"I suppose this Dr. Mackey is a very common sort of man," continued
the spendthrift, in an endeavor to add to our hero's misery.

"What do you know about him?"
"Nothing but what I heard at the village."
"Is he down there now?"
"Of course not. He went with our troops."
Jack drew a sigh of relief.

It was likely that the doctor would not show himself in the
neighborhood for some time to come, probably not until the Federal
troops had departed.

"I am going to talk to my aunt of this," said St. John suddenly, and,
without another word to Jack, turned his steps toward the plantation
home.

CHAPTER XIX.

A SUMMONS FROM THE FRONT.

St. John found his aunt too busy to spend much time talking about
Jack's past and Dr.

Mackey's claim, and it was not long before he took his departure, feeling
that he had gained nothing by this new attack upon our hero's
welfare.

"I wish I could get him out of the way," he muttered, as he walked
homeward, by a side road, so as to steer clear of the Federal
troops.
"If only he would join the army, and get shot down."
He entered his home filled with thoughts of Jack and Marion, but
all these thoughts were driven to the winds after he had read a
communication which had been left for him during his absence.

The communication was one from a well-known Southern leader of the
neighborhood, and ran, in part, as follows:

"Many of us think it time to call upon you to take up arms as we
have done. With our noble country suffering from the invasion of
the enemy, every loyal Southerner is needed at the front. Join our ranks
ere it be too late. The muster roll can be signed at Wingate's
Hotel, any time to-day or to-night. Do not delay."
As St. John read this communication his face grew ashen. "Called
upon to join at last!" he muttered. "What shall I do now? What excuse
can I offer for hanging back?"
"What is in your letter, St. John?" asked his mother.

"They want me to join the army--they say every man is needed," he
answered, with half a groan.

"To join? When?"

"At once."
"What shall you do?"
"I--I don't know." His legs began to tremble, and he sank heavily on
a chair. "I--I am too sick to join the army, mother," he went on, half
pleadingly.

Now Mrs. Ruthven did not care to have him leave her, yet she was but
human, and it filled her with disgust to have her only offspring such
a coward.

"You weren't very sick this morning."

"I know that. But the sun has affected my head.

I feel very faint."
"If you don't join the ranks, all of our neighbors will put you
down as a coward, St. John."
"They can't want a sick man along," he whined.

"They will say you are shamming."

"But I am not shamming.

I feel bad enough to take to my bed this minute."

"Then you had better do it," answered Mrs. Ruthven, with, however,
but little sympathy in her voice.

"I will go to bed at once."
"You must not forget that your cousin, Harry Powell, is in the army."

"Yes, on the Yankee side."
"Still he is brave enough to go.

Marion may think a good deal of him on that account."
"Well, I would go, for Marion's sake, if I felt at all well," groaned
St. John. "But I am in for a regular spell of sickness, I feel certain
of it."

"Then go to bed."
"Write Colonel Raymond a note stating that I am in bed, and tell him I
would join the ranks if I possibly could," groaned St.

John, and then dragged himself upstairs and retired.

Here he called for a negro servant and had a man go for a doctor.

Much disgusted, Mrs.

Mary Ruthven penned the note, and sent it to town, shielding her
son's true character as much as possible.

For the remainder of the day St.

John stayed in bed, and whenever a servant came into his room he would
groan dismally.

When the doctor arrived he was alarmed, until he made an examination.
"He is shamming," thought the family physician. But as the Ruthvens
were among his best customers, he said nothing on this point. He
left St.
John some soothing medicine and a tonic, and said he would call
again the next day.
Instead of using the medicine, the young spendthrift threw it out
of the window.
"Don't catch me swallowing that stuff," he chuckled to himself. "I
am not altogether such a fool."
Several days passed, and nothing of importance happened to disturb
those at either of the Ruthven plantations.
But a surprise was in store for Jack and those with whom he lived.
One of the wounded soldiers stopping at Mrs. Alice Ruthven's home
was named George Walden. The poor fellow had been shot in the
shoulder, a painful as well as a dangerous wound.
For several days he lay speechless, and during that time the
Confederate surgeon and Mrs. Ruthven, as well as Marion, did all
they could to ease his suffering.
One day George Walden began to speak to Marion.
"You are very good to me," he said. "You are in reality an angel
of mercy."
"I am glad to be able to help you, and thus help the Southern cause,"
replied Marion. "But you must not speak too much. It may retard
your recovery."
"I will not talk much. But you are so kind I must thank you. What
is your name?" 
"Marion Ruthven."
Then he told her his own, and said he had a sister at home, in
Savannah, Ga., and asked Marion to write a letter for him, which
she did willingly.
After that Marion and George Walden became quite intimate, and the
soldier told much about himself and the battles through which he
had passed.
"Some of them are nothing but nightmares," he said. "I never wish
to see the like of them again."
"And yet you saw only the fighting, I presume," said Marion. "Think
of what those in the hospital corps must behold."
"I was attached to the hospital corps," returned George Walden. "I
have helped to carry in hundreds who were wounded."
"If you were in the hospital service, did you ever meet a doctor
named Mackey?" questioned Marion, with increased interest.
At this question the brow of the wounded soldier darkened, and he
shifted uneasily upon his couch.
"Yes, I know Dr. Mackey well," he said, at last.
"You do!" cried the girl. "And what do you know of him? I would
like to know very much."
"Is he your friend?" asked George Walden cautiously.
"No, I cannot say that he is."
"Because, if he is your friend, I would rather not say anything
further, Miss Ruthven. I do not wish to hurt your feelings."
"Which means that what you have to say would be of no credit to
Dr.
Mackey?" 
"Exactly."
"I would like to know all about him. I will tell you why. You have
noticed Jack, my brother?"
"The lad who helped move me yesterday?" 
"Yes."
"Of course--a fine young fellow."
"He is not my real brother. My parents adopted him about ten years
ago." 
"Indeed."
"Some time ago Dr. Mackey turned up here and claimed Jack as his
son." 
"Impossible! Why, Dr. Mackey is a bachelor!"
"You are sure of this? He says he was married to Jack's mother, who
was shipwrecked on our shore, and who died at this house a few days
later."
"I have heard Dr. Mackey declare several times that he was heart-free,
that he had never cared for any woman, and consequently had never
married." 
At this declaration Marion's face lit up.
"I knew it! I knew it!" she cried. "I must tell mamma and Jack at
once!"
"Dr. Mackey is a fraud," went on the wounded soldier. "To the best
of my knowledge, he comes from Philadelphia, where he used to run
a mail-order medical bureau of some sort--something which the
Post-office Department stopped as a swindle."
"My cousin thought he came from Philadelphia," said Marion. "But
wait until I call my mother and Jack."
Marion ran off without delay, but failed to find either Mrs. Ruthven
or our hero, both having gone to town to purchase something at
Mr.
Blackwood's store.
"Da will be back afore supper time, Miss Marion," said one of the
servants, and with this she had to be content.
"My folks have gone away," she said to George Walden. "As soon as
they come back I will bring them to you. I hope you can prove your
words."
"I am sure I can prove them," answered the wounded soldier.
"Jack does not like this Dr. Mackey in the least, and the idea of
being compelled to recognize the man as his father is very repulsive
to him."
"I don't blame the boy. For myself, I hate the doctor--he is so
rough to the wounded placed in his care. He treated one of my chums
worse than a dog, and I came pretty close to having it out with him
in consequence."
"He doesn't look like a very tender-hearted man."
"He doesn't know what tenderness is, Miss Ruthven. I would pity
your brother if he had to place himself under Dr. Mackey's care."

"We won't give Jack up unless the courts make us. My mother is firm
on that point." 
"But why does he want the boy?"
"That is the mystery--if Jack is not really his son."
"Perhaps there is a fortune coming to your brother, and the doctor
wants to secure it. A man like Dr. Mackey wouldn't do a thing of
this sort without an object. I can tell you one thing--the fellow
worships money." 
"What makes you think that?"
"Because I know that a wounded soldier once told him to be careful
and he would give him all the money he had--twelve dollars. The
doctor was careful, and took every dollar that was offered."
"But had he a right to take the soldier's money?" asked Marion
indignantly.
"Not exactly, but in war times many queer things happen that are
never told of at headquarters," answered George Walden.
Here the conversation ceased, for the soldier was quite exhausted.
Soon Marion gave him a quieting draught, and then George Walden
slept.

CHAPTER XX.

THE STORM OF BATTLE AGAIN.
As related in the last chapter, Mrs. Ruthven and Jack had gone to
Oldville to do some necessary trading.
Arriving at the town, they found all in high excitement. The stores
were closed, and only the tavern was open, and here were congregated
a number of men who had but lately joined the Confederate ranks.
"What is the matter?" asked Mrs. Ruthven of one of the men.
"Another battle is on," was the answer. "We are going to drive the
Yanks out of this neighborhood."
"Another battle!" cried Jack. "Where?"
"They are fighting over near Larson's Corners. Can't you hear the
shooting?" 
"I can hear it now--I didn't hear it before."
"Do you think they will come this way?" questioned Mrs. Ruthven
anxiously.
"Aint no telling how matters will turn," answered the man addressed,
and then hurried off to join the other newly enlisted soldiers.
Soon the soldiers were leaving the town on the double-quick.
Jack watched the departure of the men with interest, and then espied
Darcy Gilbert running toward him.
"Hi, Darcy!" he called out. "Where bound?"
"Jack! Just the one I wanted to meet. There's a fight on."
"So I hear. I reckon we had better call out the Home Guard again."

"By all means. The stores want protection, and so do the homesteads,"
went on Darcy. "Shall I go down the shore road and call up the
boys?"
"Yes, and I'll take the Batsford road. If you see Doc Nivers tell
him to call up the boys on the mountain road, will you?"
"Yes. What of those at Brackett's plantation?"
"I'll send Hackett or Purroy after them," answered Jack.
The two lads separated, and Jack turned to his foster mother.
"Mother, you heard what was said," he began.'Here is an Erica vagans,' said the Doctor, picking a flower; 'it
is rather uncommon about here;' and handing it at the same time to
Venetia.

'My father must have been very young when he died?' said Venetia,
scarcely looking at the flower.

'Yes, your father was very young,' he replied.

'Where did he die?'

'I cannot answer that question.'

'Where was he buried?'

'You know, my dear young lady, that the subject is too tender for any
one to converse with your poor mother upon it. It is not in my power
to give you the information you desire. Be satisfied, my dear Miss
Herbert, that a gracious Providence has spared to you one parent, and
one so inestimable.'

'I trust I know how to appreciate so great a blessing,' replied
Venetia; 'but I should be sorry if the natural interest which all
children must take in those who have given them birth, should be
looked upon as idle and unjustifiable curiosity.'

'My dear young lady, you misapprehend me.'

'No, Doctor Masham, indeed I do not,' replied Venetia, with firmness.
'I can easily conceive that the mention of my father may for various
reasons be insupportable to my mother; it is enough for me that I am
convinced such is the case: my lips are sealed to her for ever upon
the subject; but I cannot recognise the necessity of this constraint
to others. For a long time I was kept in ignorance whether I had
a father or not. I have discovered, no matter how, who he was. I
believe, pardon me, my dearest friend, I cannot help believing, that
you were acquainted, or, at least, that you know something of him; and
I entreat you! yes,' repeated Venetia with great emphasis, laying
her hand upon his arm, and looking with earnestness in his face, 'I
entreat you, by all your kind feelings to my mother and myself, by all
that friendship we so prize, by the urgent solicitation of a daughter
who is influenced in her curiosity by no light or unworthy feeling;
yes! _A Crooked Mile_ (METHUEN) is a sequel to his earlier book, _The
Two Kisses_. We meet again those two young women, _Dorothy_ and _Amory_,
and the natural characteristics that they once presented seem now
to be tortured into caricature.

_Amory_ has indeed all my sympathy, so badgered is she by Mr. ONIONS,
so relentlessly forced into ignominious positions; and I cannot
feel, as I should do, that she would have achieved those ignominies
without Mr.

ONIONS' impelling hand behind her. I have myself considerable sympathy
for cranks, and perhaps that is why I regard Mr. ONIONS' satire as
a dry, gritty business. His humour is, of course, always a delightful
thing, but here I fancy that he has not drawn the true line between
comedy and farce, between satire that preserves the probabilities and
indiscriminate exaggeration. Of the three Mr.
ONIONSES who have at different times given me pleasure--the author of
_Widdershins_, the author of _In Accordance with the Evidence_, and
the author of _Little Devil Doubt_--I greatly prefer the first.

In _A Crooked Mile_ there is one chapter worthy of all three of
them--that chapter where _Amory_ discovers that her lover is going
away with another woman.

That is fine work. For the rest I hope that he will grow tired of his
social satire and soon give us again some more of his delicate
imagination and fancy

.

* * * * *
What I felt about _The Girl on the Green_ (METHUEN) was that, however
charming and capable, she was not quite likely, after but a few short
months of golf, to have put up such a good fight in her great match
with the crack amateur, _Jim Beverley_, who was giving her a half.

I couldn't manage to believe it. However, that was not my business, but
MARK ALLERTON'S. According to him, _Frank_ took her match to the last
green, in spite of a number of cats, headed by the Vicar's wife, who
did their best to put her off her game.
Now let us walk, now let us talk
of these things. He lives?'

'I have little to add,' said Dr. Masham, after a moment's thought;
'but this, however painful, it is necessary for you to know, that your
father is unworthy of your mother, utterly; they are separated; they
never can be reunited.'

'Never?' said Venetia.

'Never,' replied Dr. I have discovered from _The Rebellion of Esther_
(ALSTON RIVERS) why it is that my sympathies, usually at the disposal
of insurgents, are withheld from the Suffragette. Anyone who is genuinely
out to assert a principle, at the cost of quarrelling with established
authority, has a certain merit of altruism which even the most law-abiding
may count as a mitigating circumstance, however unworthy the end in
view; but the egoism of a young lady (like Miss MARGARET LEGGE'S
heroine) who in whatever cause defies all institutions with the latent
motive of asserting herself will induce even the most lawless to
support warmly the powers of suppression. _Miss Esther Ballinger_
had a number of real grievances, but her point of view was
typified in her attitude towards the illicit and incidental motherhood
of one of her acquaintances.

Without hearing the facts, she pronounced it to be "a courageous stand
against conventional morality," which it just possibly might have proved
to be upon enquiry, and by no means a weak surrender to immediate
desires, as much more probably it was in fact. From my knowledge
of _Esther_ she had but one reason for expressing this opinion, and
that was the personal pleasure of saying the unorthodox thing, an
element which accounts for much of the unconventionality of that
intellectual class of townsfolk figuring broadcast in the book, and
largely discounts the value of its criticisms.

I suspected the same flaw in her expressed convictions on religious,
political and feminist matters, and I shouldn't be surprised to
learn, though there is no hint of it, that she stopped short of
complete revolt in her own big affair because she realized instinctively
that even a passionate pose may lose its attractions if it has to
be maintained for a lifetime.

Miss MARGARET LEGGE, though alive to the young person's faults,
regards her as, on the whole, deep-thinking and right-minded; and I
would not for a moment have our personal difference of opinion discourage
anybody from reading a carefully studied and ably written novel.

* * * * *
The attitude of Militarist to Pacifist has the makings of a very
pretty comedy. When the Mystics (with the Friends and the Tolstoians)
were evangelical enough to preach their message of peace even to
the point of non-resistance, they were broadly scouted as sentimental
and idealistic idiots, and reminded of a nature red in tooth and claw
rampant in this most sordid of all possible worlds. Now that the
Rationalists take up the case against war from another end, they
are denounced as squalid souls, with a greengrocer's outlook, morbidly
anxious about the price of peas and potatoes, and urged to remember
that not by bread alone doth man live. In _The Foundations of
International Polity_ (HEINEMANN), a series of lectures developing
phases of the argument of the Great Illusion, Mr. NORMAN ANGELL
incidentally deals with this greengrocery business.

Venetia had her secret now; and often
as she looked up at the windows of the uninhabited portion of the
building, she remembered with concealed, but not less keen exultation,
that she had penetrated their mystery. She could muse for hours over
all that chamber had revealed to her, and indulge in a thousand
visions, of which her father was the centre. She was his 'own
Venetia.' Thus he had hailed her at her birth, and thus he might yet
again acknowledge her. The social significance of such sympathetic or
general strikes is indeed recognized as clearly by non-Socialists as
by Socialists--even in America, since the great railroad strike of
1894. The general strike of 1910 in Philadelphia, for instance, was
seen both in Philadelphia and in the country at large as being a
part of a great social conflict. "The American nation has been brought
face to face for the first time with a strike," said the _Philadelphia
North American_, "not merely against the control of an industry or
a group of allied industries, but _a strike of class against class,
with the lines sharply drawn_.... And it is this antagonism, this
class war, intangible and immeasurable, that constitutes the largest
and most lamentable hurt to the city.The summer wore away. One morning, as Lady Annabel and Venetia were
sitting together, Mistress Pauncefort bustled into the room with
a countenance radiant with smiles and wonderment. Her ostensible
business was to place upon the table a vase of flowers, but it was
evident that her presence was occasioned by affairs of far greater
urgency. One community on its feet presents an object-lesson for the
adjoining communities, and soon improvements show themselves in other
places.

Another student who received academic and industrial training at
Tuskegee established himself, three years ago, as a blacksmith and
wheelwright in a community, and, in addition to the influence of
his successful business enterprise, he is fast making the same kind
of changes in the life of the people about him that I have just
recounted.

It would be easy for me to fill many pages describing the influence
of the Tuskegee graduates in every part of the South.

We keep it constantly in the minds of our students and graduates
that the industrial or material condition of the masses of our
people must be improved, as well as the intellectual, before there
can be any permanent change in their moral and religious life.

We find it a pretty hard thing to make a good Christian of a
hungry man. No matter how much our people "get happy" and "shout" in
church, if they go home at night from church hungry, they are tempted
to find something before morning. This is a principle of human nature,
and is not confined to the negro.

The negro has within him immense power for self-uplifting, but for
years it will be necessary to guide and stimulate him.

The recognition of this power led us to organize, five years ago, what
is now known as the Tuskegee Negro Conference,--a gathering that
meets every February, and is composed of about eight hundred
representative colored men and women from all sections of the Black
Belt.

They come in ox-carts, mule-carts, buggies, on muleback and horseback,
on foot, by railroad: some traveling all night in order to be
present. The matters considered at the conferences are those that
the colored people have it within their own power to control: such
as the evils of the mortgage system, the one-room cabin, buying
on credit, the importance of owning a home and of putting money in
the bank, how to build schoolhouses and prolong the school term, and
how to improve their moral and religious condition.

As a single example of the results, one delegate reported that since
the conferences were started five years ago eleven people in his
neighborhood had bought homes, fourteen had got out of debt, and a
number had stopped mortgaging their crops.

Moreover, a schoolhouse had been built by the people themselves,
and the school term had been extended from three to six months; and
with a look of triumph he exclaimed, "We is done stopped libin' in de
ashes!"
Besides this Negro Conference for the masses of the people, we now
have a gathering at the same time known as the Workers' Conference,
composed of the officers and instructors in the leading colored
schools of the South.

After listening to the story of the conditions and needs from
the people themselves, the Workers' Conference finds much food for
thought and discussion.

Nothing else so soon brings about right relations between the two races
in the South as the industrial progress of the negro.

Friction between the races will pass away in proportion as the black
man, by reason of his skill, intelligence, and character, can produce
something that the white man wants or respects in the commercial
world.

This is another reason why at Tuskegee we push the industrial
training.

We find that as every year we put into a Southern community colored
men who can start a brick-yard, a sawmill, a tin-shop, or a
printing-office,--men who produce something that makes the white
man partly dependent upon the negro, instead of all the dependence
being on the other side,--a change takes place in the relations of
the races.

Let us go on for a few more years knitting our business and industrial
relations into those of the white man, till a black man gets a
mortgage on a white man's house that he can foreclose at will.

The white man on whose house the mortgage rests will not try to prevent
that negro from voting when he goes to the polls. It is through the
dairy farm, the truck garden, the trades, and commercial life,
largely, that the negro is to find his way to the enjoyment of all his
rights. Whether he will or not, a white man respects a negro who
owns a two-story brick house.

What is the permanent value of the Tuskegee system of training to the
South in a broader sense? In connection with this, it is well to bear
in mind that slavery taught the white man that labor with the hands
was something fit for the negro only, and something for the white man
to come into contact with just as little as possible. It is
true that there was a large class of poor white people who labored
with the hands, but they did it because they were not able to
secure negroes to work for them; and these poor whites were constantly
trying to imitate the slave-holding class in escaping labor, and
they too regarded it as anything but elevating. The negro in turn
looked down upon the poor whites with a certain contempt because
they had to work.

The negro, it is to be borne in mind, worked under constant protest,
because he felt that his labor was being unjustly required, and he
spent almost as much effort in planning how to escape work as in
learning how to work. Labor with him was a badge of degradation. The
white man was held up before him as the highest type of civilization,
but the negro noted that this highest type of civilization himself did
no labor; hence he argued that the less work he did, the more nearly
he would be like a white man.
Then, in addition to these influences, the slave system discouraged
labor-saving machinery. To use labor-saving machinery intelligence
was required, and intelligence and slavery were not on friendly
terms; hence the negro always associated labor with toil, drudgery,
something to be escaped.

When the negro first became free, his idea of education was that it
was something that would soon put him in the same position as regards
work that his recent master had occupied. Out of these conditions
grew the Southern habit of putting off till to-morrow and the day
after the duty that should be done promptly to-day. The leaky house
was not repaired while the sun shone, for then the rain did not come
through. While the rain was falling, no one cared to expose
himself to stop the leak. The plough, on the same principle, was
left where the last furrow was run, to rot and rust in the field
during the winter.
There was no need to repair the wooden chimney that was exposed to the
fire, because water could be thrown on it when it was on fire. There
was no need to trouble about the payment of a debt to-day, for it
could just as well be paid next week or next year. Besides these
conditions, the whole South, at the close of the war, was without
proper food, clothing, and shelter,--was in need of habits of thrift
and economy and of something laid up for a rainy day.

To me it seemed perfectly plain that here was a condition of things
that could not be met by the ordinary process of education. At
Tuskegee we became convinced that the thing to do was to make a
careful systematic study of the condition and needs of the South,
especially the Black Belt, and to bend our efforts in the direction
of meeting these needs, whether we were following a well-beaten
track, or were hewing out a new path to meet conditions probably
without a parallel in the world.
After fourteen years of experience and observation, what is the
result?
Gradually but surely, we find that all through the South the disposition
to look upon labor as a disgrace is on the wane, and the parents who
themselves sought to escape work are so anxious to give their
children training in intelligent labor that every institution which
gives training in the handicrafts is crowded, and many (among them
Tuskegee) have to refuse admission to hundreds of applicants.

The influence of the Tuskegee system is shown again by the fact that
almost every little school at the remotest cross-roads is anxious to
be known as an industrial school, or, as some of the colored people
call it, an "industrus" school.

The social lines that were once sharply drawn between those who labored
with the hand and those who did not are disappearing. Those who
formerly sought to escape labor, now when they see that brains and
skill rob labor of the toil and drudgery once associated with it,
instead of trying to avoid it are willing to pay to be taught
how to engage in it.
The South is beginning to see labor raised up, dignified and beautified,
and in this sees its salvation. In proportion as the love of labor
grows, the large idle class which has long been one of the curses of
the South disappears. As its members become absorbed in occupations,
they have less time to attend to everybody else's business, and more
time for their own.

The South is still an undeveloped and unsettled country, and for the
next half century and more the greater part of the energy of the
masses will be needed to develop its material opportunities. Any force
that brings the rank and file of the people to a greater love of
industry is therefore especially valuable. This result industrial
education is surely bringing about. It stimulates production and
increases trade,--trade between the races,--and in this new and
engrossing relation both forget the past. The white man respects the
vote of the colored man who does $10,000 worth of business, and the
more business the colored man has, the more careful he is how he
votes.

Immediately after the war, there was a large class of Southern
people who feared that the opening of the free schools to the
freedmen and the poor whites--the education of the head alone--would
result merely in increasing the class who sought to escape labor, and
that the South would soon be overrun by the idle and vicious. But as
the results of industrial combined with academic training begin to show
themselves in hundreds of communities that have been lifted up through
the medium of the Tuskegee system, these former prejudices against
education are being removed. Many of those who a few years ago opposed
general education are now among its warmest advocates.

This industrial training, emphasizing as it does the idea of economic
production, is gradually bringing the South to the point where it
is feeding itself. Before the war, and long after it, the South made
what little profit was received from the cotton crop, and sent its
earnings out of the South to purchase food supplies,--meat, bread,
canned vegetables, and the like; but the improved methods of agriculture
are fast changing this habit.

With the newer methods of labor, which teach promptness and system,
and emphasize the worth of the beautiful,--the moral value of the
well-painted house, and the fence with every paling and nail
in its place,--we are bringing to bear upon the South an influence
that is making it a new country in industry, education, and
religion.

THE STORY OF UNCLE TOM'S CABIN by Charles Dudley Warner

On the 29th of June, 1852, Henry Clay died. In that month the two
great political parties, in their national conventions, had accepted
as a finality all the compromise measures of 1850, and the last
hours of the Kentucky statesman were brightened by the thought that his
efforts had secured the perpetuity of the Union.

But on the 20th of March, 1852, there had been an event, the significance
of which was not taken into account by the political conventions or
by Clay, which was to test the conscience of the nation.

This was the publication of Uncle Tom's Cabin. Was this only an
"event," the advent of a new force in politics; was the book merely
an abolition pamphlet, or was it a novel, one of the few great
masterpieces of fiction that the world has produced? After the
lapse of forty-four years and the disappearance of African slavery on
this continent, it is perhaps possible to consider this question
dispassionately.

The compromise of 1850 satisfied neither the North nor the South. The
admission of California as a free State was regarded by Calhoun as
fatal to the balance between the free and the slave States, and
thereafter a fierce agitation sprang up for the recovery of this loss
of balance, and ultimately for Southern preponderance, which resulted
in the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, the Kansas-Nebraska war, and
the civil war.
The fugitive slave law was hateful to the North not only because it
was cruel and degrading, but because it was seen to be a move formed
for nationalizing slavery. It was unsatisfactory to the South because
it was deemed inadequate in its provisions, and because the South
did not believe the North would execute it in good faith. So
unstable did the compromise seem that in less than a year after the
passage of all its measures, Henry Clay and forty-four Senators and
Representatives united in a manifesto declaring that they would support
no man for office who was not known to be opposed to any disturbance
of the settlements of the compromise.

When, in February, 1851, the recaptured fugitive slave, Burns, was
rescued from the United States officers in Boston, Clay urged the
investment of the President with extraordinary power to enforce the
law.

Henry Clay was a patriot, a typical American. The republic and
its preservation were the passions of his life. Like Lincoln, who
was born in the State of his adoption, he was willing to make
almost any sacrifice for the maintenance of the Union. He had no
sympathy with the system of slavery. There is no doubt that he would
have been happy in the belief that it was in the way of gradual and
peaceful extinction.
With him, it was always the Union before state rights and before
slavery. Unlike Lincoln, he had not the clear vision to see that the
republic could not endure half slave and half free. He believed that
the South, appealing to the compromises of the Constitution, would
sacrifice the Union before it would give up slavery, and in fear
of this menace he begged the North to conquer its prejudices.

We are not liable to overrate his influence as a compromising pacificator
from 1832 to 1852.
History will no doubt say that it was largely due to him that the war
on the Union was postponed to a date when its success was
impossible.

It was the fugitive slave law that brought the North face to face
with slavery nationalized, and it was the fugitive slave law that
produced Uncle Tom's Cabin. The effect of this story was immediate
and electric.
It went straight to the hearts of tens of thousands of people
who had never before considered slavery except as a political
institution for which they had no personal responsibility.

What was this book, and how did it happen to produce such an effect?
It is true that it struck into a time of great irritation and
agitation, but in one sense there was nothing new in it. The facts
had all been published. For twenty years abolition tracts,
pamphlets, newspapers, and books had left little to be revealed, to
those who cared to read, as to the nature of slavery or its economic
aspects. The evidence was practically all in,--supplied largely by
the advertisements of Southern newspapers and by the legislation of
the slaveholding States,--but it did not carry conviction; that
is, the sort of conviction that results in action. The subject
had to be carried home to the conscience. Pamphleteering, convention-holding,
sermons, had failed to do this. Even the degrading requirements of
the fugitive slave law, which brought shame and humiliation, had
not sufficed to fuse the public conscience, emphasize the necessity
of obedience to the moral law, and compel recognition of the responsibility
of the North for slavery. Evidence had not done this, passionate
appeals had not done it, vituperation had not done it. What sort of
presentation of the case would gain the public ear and go to the
heart?

If Mrs. Stowe, in all her fervor, had put forth first the facts in
The Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin, which so buttressed her romance, the book
would have had no more effect than had followed the like compilations
and arraignments. What was needed? If we can discover this, we shall
have the secret of this epoch-making novel.

The story of this book has often been told. It is in the nature of a
dramatic incident of which the reader never tires any more than the
son of Massachusetts does of the minutest details of that famous scene
in the Senate Chamber when Webster replied to Hayne.

At the age of twenty-four the author was married and went to live in
Cincinnati, where her husband held a chair in the Lane Theological
Seminary. There for the first time she was brought into relations with
the African race and saw the effects of slavery. She visited slaveholders
in Kentucky and had friends among them. In some homes she saw the
"patriarchal" institution at its best. The Beecher family were
anti-slavery, but they had not been identified with the abolitionists,
except perhaps Edward, who was associated with the murdered Lovejoy.

It was long a reproach brought by the abolitionists against Henry Ward
Beecher that he held entirely aloof from their movement. At Cincinnati,
however, the personal aspects of the case were brought home to
Mrs.
Stowe. She learned the capacities and peculiarities of the negro race.

On the whole, his carriage and
conversation afforded a delightful evidence of a pure, and earnest,
and frank, and gifted mind, that had acquired at an early age much of
the mature and fixed character of manhood, without losing anything
of that boyish sincerity and simplicity too often the penalty of
experience.

The dinner passed in pleasant conversation, and if they were no longer
familiar, they were at least cordial. Cadurcis spoke of Dr. Masham
with affectionate respect, and mentioned his intention of visiting
Marringhurst on the following day. He ventured to hope that Lady
Annabel and Miss Herbert might accompany him, and it was arranged that
his wish should be gratified. The evening drew on apace, and Lady
Annabel was greatly pleased when Lord Cadurcis expressed his wish to
remain for their evening prayers. He was indeed sincerely religious;
and as he knelt in the old chapel that had been the hallowed scene
of his boyish devotions, he offered his ardent thanksgivings to his
Creator who had mercifully kept his soul pure and true, and allowed
him, after so long an estrangement from the sweet spot of his
childhood, once more to mingle his supplications with his kind and
virtuous friends.

Influenced by the solemn sounds still lingering in his ear, Cadurcis
bade them farewell for the night, with an earnestness of manner and
depth of feeling which he would scarcely have ventured to exhibit at
their first meeting. 'Good night, dear Lady Annabel,' he said, as he
pressed her hand; 'you know not how happy, how grateful I feel, to be
once more at Cherbury. Good night, Venetia!'

That last word lingered on his lips; it was uttered in a tone at once
mournful and sweet, and her hand was unconsciously retained for a
moment in his; but for a moment; and yet in that brief instant a
thousand thoughts seemed to course through his brain.

Before Venetia retired to rest she remained for a few minutes in her
mother's room. 'What do you think of him, mamma?' she said; 'is he not
very changed?'

'He is, my love,' replied Lady Annabel; 'what I sometimes thought he
might, what I always hoped he would, be.'

'He really seemed happy to meet us again, and yet how strange that for
years he should never have communicated with us.'

'Not so very strange, my love! He was but a child when we parted, and
he has felt embarrassment in resuming connections which for a long
interval had been inevitably severed. Remember what a change his life
had to endure; few, after such an interval, would have returned with
feelings so kind and so pure!'

'He was always a favourite of yours, mamma!'

'I always fancied that I observed in him the seeds of great virtues
and great talents; but I was not so sanguine that they would have
flourished as they appear to have done.'

In the meantime the subject of their observations strolled home
on foot, for he had dismissed his horses, to the abbey. It was a
brilliant night, and the white beams of the moon fell full upon the
old monastic pile, of which massy portions were in dark shade while
the light gracefully rested on the projecting ornaments of the
building, and played, as it were, with the fretted and fantastic
pinnacles. Behind were the savage hills, softened by the hour; and on
the right extended the still and luminous lake. Cadurcis rested for
a moment and gazed upon the fair, yet solemn scene. The dreams of
ambition that occasionally distracted him were dead. The surrounding
scene harmonised with the thoughts of purity, repose, and beauty that
filled his soul. Why should he ever leave this spot, sacred to him by
the finest emotions of his nature? Why should he not at once quit
that world which he had just entered, while he could quit it without
remorse? If ever there existed a being who was his own master, who
might mould his destiny at his will, it seemed to be Cadurcis. His
lone yet independent situation, his impetuous yet firm volition, alike
qualified him to achieve the career most grateful to his disposition.
Let him, then, achieve it here; here let him find that solitude he had
ever loved, softened by that affection for which he had ever sighed,
and which here only he had ever found. It seemed to him that there
was only one being in the world whom he had ever loved, and that was
Venetia Herbert: it seemed to him that there was only one thing in
this world worth living for, and that was the enjoyment of her sweet
heart. The pure-minded, the rare, the gracious creature! Why should
she ever quit these immaculate bowers wherein she had been so
mystically and delicately bred? Why should she ever quit the fond
roof of Cherbury, but to shed grace and love amid the cloisters of
Cadurcis? Her life hitherto had been an enchanted tale; why should
the spell ever break? It would be more accurate to say, they were
the schools of Anselm and Ralph, of William of Champeaux, and of Bernard
Sylvester. For in those days the school followed the teacher, not the
teacher the school. Wherever a master lived, there he taught; and
thither, in proportion to his renown, students assembled from whatever
quarter.... The tie was a personal one, and was generally severed by
the master's death.
A succession of great teachers in one place was a rare exception; nor
is such an exception afforded by the history of any of the three schools
to which we have referred.[2]
In these days, when education requires a more and more elaborate equipment
of buildings, libraries, laboratories, and museums, it is no longer
possible for teachers, however distinguished, to attract throngs
of students to places absolutely unprovided with the resources for
teaching, or to provide these resources anywhere on the spur of the
moment In the twelfth century, on the contrary, the only necessary
equipment consisted in the master, his small library which could
be carried by one man; wax tablets, or pens, ink, and vellum or
parchment for the students; and any kind of a shelter which would
serve as a protection from the weather.

Not even benches or chairs were necessary, for students commonly
sat upon the straw-strewn floors of the lecture rooms.

Thus the school might easily follow the teacher in his migrations,
and easily sink into obscurity or disappear upon his death or cessation
from teaching.

The autobiography of Abelard (see page 14), recounts an experience unusual
in itself, but perfectly illustrative of the point. After relating
various misfortunes and persecutions he continues:
So I betook myself to a certain wilderness previously known to me,
and there on land given to me by certain ones, with the consent of
the Bishop of the region, I constructed out of reeds and straw a
sort of oratory in the name of the Holy Trinity where, in company
with one of our clergy, I might truly chant to the Lord: "Lo I have
wandered far off, and have remained in the wilderness."

As soon as Scholars learned this they began to gather from every side,
leaving cities and castles to dwell in the wilderness, and in place
of their spacious homes to build small tabernacles for themselves,
and in place of delicate food to live on herbs of the fields and
coarse bread, and in place of soft couches to make up [beds of]
straw and grass, and in place of tables to pile up sods.[3]
FOOTNOTES:
[Footnote 1: Adapted from Joseph McCabe, _Abelard_, pp. 7, 8.]

[Footnote 2: R.L. Poole, _Illustrations from the History of Medieval
Thought_, p. 109.]

[Footnote 3: _Petri Abaelardi Opera_, edd. Cousin et Jourdain,
I, p.

25.]

III

THE RISE OF MEDIAEVAL UNIVERSITIES

The influences contributing to the rise of universities were numerous,
and in many cases obscure. The most important were: 1. Inspiring and
original teachers, who gathered about them great numbers of students.
2.

A new method of teaching. 3. A new group of studies. 4. Privileges
granted to scholars and masters by civil and ecclesiastical
authorities.
5.

The direct initiative of those authorities in establishing universities
by decree. The readings which follow are chosen to illustrate these
influences.

1. TEACHERS AND STUDENTS OF THE TWELFTH CENTURY

(a) _A Pre-University Teacher: Abelard_

Among the teachers of the early part of the twelfth century, two were
of especial significance in the later intellectual development of
the period,--Irnerius (_ca._ 1070-1130) at Bologna, and Abelard
(1079-1142) at Paris.

They were the forerunners of the universities which began to take
form at the end of the twelfth century in those cities. Irnerius marks
a new epoch in the study of the body of Roman Law; following the
traditions of teaching which he established, the University of
Bologna became the most prominent school of law in Europe.

In a similar way Abelard marks at Paris the introduction of a
new method of teaching and investigation, an attitude of intellectual
independence on theological questions, and a permanently influential
position in scholastic philosophy; following his initiative the
University of Paris became the leading school of Philosophy and
Theology.

These two institutions,--Bologna and Paris,--were in turn the models
for all other mediaeval universities, not only in organization, but
also so far as the study of Law, Theology, and Philosophy was
concerned.

Hence, indirectly, the influence of Abelard and Irnerius was widely
diffused and long continued.

The documents relating to Irnerius are scanty. For a discussion
of his influence on the teaching of Roman Law, see Rashdall, I,
ch. iv, and especially pages 121-127.

Concerning Abelard the records are abundant.

Abelard, the eldest son of a noble family of Pallet (Palais), Brittany,
was in his day the most renowned teacher in France. Instead of
becoming the head of his family and adopting the career of a
soldier, he abandoned his birthright and the profession of arms for
the life of the scholar and the battlefields of debate.

His early life as a student wandering from school to school is thus
described by himself:
The more fully and easily I advanced in the study of letters the
more ardently I clung to them, and I became so enamored of them
that, abandoning to my brothers the pomp of glory, together with
my inheritance and the rights of the eldest son, I resigned from
the Councils of War that I might be educated in the camp of Minerva.

And since among all the weapons of philosophy I preferred the arms of
logic, I exchanged accoutrements and preferred the conflicts of
debate to the trophies of war.

Thenceforward I walked through the various provinces engaging in debates
wherever I had heard that the study of this art [logic] flourished,
and thus became a rival of the Peripatetics.

At length [about 1100 A.D.] I reached Paris, where for some time this
art had been prospering, and went to William of Champeaux, my instructor,
distinguished at the time in this particular by his work and
reputation as a teacher. Staying with him for a while, I was at first
acceptable, but shortly after was very annoying to him, namely, when
I tried to refute some of his opinions, and often ventured to argue
against him and, not seldom, seemed to surpass him in debate.[4]
_In scholis militare_--to wage war in the schools--was the phrase aptly
used to describe this mode of debate. William of Champeaux was
then the head of the cathedral school of Notre Dame and the leading
teacher of logic in France. "Within a few months Abelard made his
authority totter, and set his reputation on the wane. In six or seven
years he drove him in shame and humiliation from his chair, after
a contest which filled Christendom with its echoes."

By overcoming William in debate he established his own reputation as
a teacher. At various times between 1108 and 1139 he taught in
Paris, whither crowds of students came to hear him. His fame was at
its height about 1117, shortly after his appointment to the chair which
William himself had held. Few teachers have ever attracted a following
so large and so devoted. His remarkable success in drawing to Paris
students from all quarters is vividly described by a modern writer:

The pupil who had left Paris when both William and Abelard disappeared
in 1113 would find a marvellous change on returning to it about
1116 or 1117.

He would find the lecture hall and the cloister and the quadrangle,
under the shadow of the great cathedral, filled with as motley a
crowd of youths and men as any scene in France could show.

Little groups of French and Norman and Breton nobles chattered together
in their bright silks and fur-tipped mantles, with slender swords
dangling from embroidered belts, vying with each other in the length
and crookedness of their turned-up shoes. Anglo-Saxons looked on, in
long fur-lined cloaks, tight breeches, and leathern hose swathed with
bands of many colored cloth. Stern-faced northerners, Poles and
Germans, in fur caps and with colored girdles and clumsy shoes,
or with feet roughly tied up in the bark of trees, waited impatiently
for the announcement of _Li Mestre_.

Pale-faced southerners had braved the Alps and the Pyrenees under
the fascination of "the wizard."

Shaven and sandalled monks, black-habited clerics, black canons, secular
and regular, black in face too, some of them, heresy hunters from the
neighboring abbey of St. Victor, mingled with the crowd of young and
old, grave and gay, beggars and nobles, sleek citizens and bronzed
peasants....

Over mountains and over seas the mingled reputation of the city and
the school were carried, and a remarkable stream set in from Germany,
Switzerland, Italy (even from proud Rome), Spain, and England; even
"distant Brittany sent you its animals to be instructed," wrote
Prior Fulques to Abelard (a Breton) a year or two afterwards.[5]

What was there in the teaching of Abelard which brought together
this extraordinary gathering?

One may admit the presence of unanalysable genius in this master,
and still find certain qualities indispensable to the efficient
teacher of to-day,--a winning personality, fulness of knowledge,
and technical skill as a teacher.

These are admirably set forth in the following description:

It is not difficult to understand the charm of Abelard's teaching.

Three qualities are assigned to it by the writers of the period, some
of whom studied at his feet; clearness, richness in imagery, and
lightness of touch are said to have been the chief characteristics
of his teaching.

Clearness is, indeed, a quality of his written works, though they
do not naturally convey an impression of his oral power.

His splendid gifts and versatility, supported by a rich voice, a
charming personality, a ready and sympathetic use of human literature,
and a freedom from excessive piety, gave him an immeasurable advantage
over all the teachers of the day.

Beside most of them, he was as a butterfly to an elephant. A most
industrious study of the few works of Aristotle and of the Roman
classics that were available, a retentive memory, an ease in
manipulating his knowledge, a clear, penetrating mind, with a
corresponding clearness of expression, a ready and productive fancy,
a great knowledge of men, a warmer interest in things human than
in things divine, a laughing contempt for authority, a handsome
presence, and a musical delivery--these were his gifts.[6]
He takes his place in history, apart from the ever-interesting drama
and the deep pathos of his life, in virtue of two distinctions.

They are, firstly, an extraordinary ability in imparting such knowledge
as the poverty of the age afforded--the facts of his career reveal
it; and, secondly, a mind of such marvellous penetration that it
conceived great truths which it has taken humanity seven or eight
centuries to see--this will appear as we proceed.

It was the former of these gifts that made him, in literal truth, the
centre of learned and learning Christendom, the idol of several
thousand eager scholars. Nor, finally, were these thousands the "horde
of barbarians" that jealous Master Roscelin called them.

It has been estimated that a pope, nineteen cardinals, and more
than fifty bishops and archbishops were at one time among his
pupils.[7]
Abelard's fame as a teacher, with the consequent increase of masters
and students at Paris, undoubtedly paved the way for the formation
of the University later in the century.

This is not however his greatest distinction in the history of
education.

His most enduring influences came from (1) his independence in thinking,
(2) his novel method of dealing with debatable questions, and (3)
his contributions to scholastic philosophy and theology.

The first two of these are considered below; the last belongs more
properly to the history of philosophy.

(1) Nothing singles Abelard out more clearly among the teachers of
his time than his intellectual independence.

Most of his contemporaries accepted unquestioningly the view that
in religious matters faith precedes reason. One might seek to
justify one's faith by reason, but preliminary doubt as to
what should be the specific articles of one's faith was inadmissible.
As they supposed, these articles had been determined by the church
fathers--Augustine, Jerome, and others--and by the Bible. Their view
had been formulated by Anselm of Canterbury in the preceding
century:

"I do not seek to know in order that I may believe, but I believe
in order that I may know." "The Christian ought to advance to
knowledge through faith, not come to faith through knowledge." "The
proper order demands that we believe the deep things of Christian
faith before we presume to reason about them."
With his keenly critical, questioning mind Abelard found a flaw in
this position: on many questions of faith the authorities themselves
disagreed. "In such cases,"--he said in effect,--"how shall I
come to any definite belief unless I first reason it out?" "By doubting
we are led to inquiry, and by inquiry we attain the truth." His
attitude--as contrasted with that of Anselm, given above--is set forth
in the prologue to his _Sic et Non_ (Yes and No):

In truth, constant or frequent questioning is the first key to
wisdom; and it is, indeed, to the acquiring of this [habit of]
questioning with absorbing eagerness that the famous philosopher,
Aristotle, the most clear sighted of all, urges the studious when
he says: "It is perhaps difficult to speak confidently in matters
of this sort unless they have often been investigated.

Indeed, to doubt in special cases will not be without advantage." For
through doubting we come to inquiry and through inquiry we perceive
the truth. As the Truth Himself says: "Seek and ye shall find, knock
and it shall be opened unto you." And He also, instructing us by
His own example, about the twelfth year of His life wished to be found
sitting in the midst of the doctors, asking them questions,
exhibiting to us by His asking of questions the appearance of a pupil,
rather than, by preaching, that of a teacher, although there is in
Him, nevertheless, the full and perfect wisdom of God.

Now when a number of quotations from [various] writings are introduced
they spur on the reader and allure him into seeking the truth in
proportion as the authority of the writing itself is commended ...

In accordance, then, with these forecasts it is our pleasure to collect
different sayings of the holy Fathers as we planned, just as they
have come to mind, suggesting (as they do) some questioning from
their apparent disagreement, in order that they may stimulate tender
readers to the utmost effort in seeking the truth and may make them
keener as the result of their seeking.[8]
(2) The new method which Abelard formed for discovering the truth is
presented in the "Yes and No." He first stated in the form of a thesis
for debate the question on which doubt existed. The book contains
one hundred and fifty-eight such questions. He then brought together
under each question the conflicting opinions of various authorities,
and, without stating his own view, left the student to reason for
himself in the matter. There is no doubt that this method served his
purpose to "stimulate tender readers to the utmost effort in seeking
the truth." His boldness in considering some of these questions debatable
at all, the novelty of the doubt which they imply, and their
incisive challenge to keen thinking are evident from the following
list:

1. That faith is based upon reason, _et contra_.

5. That God is not single, _et contra_.

6. That God is tripartite, _et contra_.

8. That in the Trinity it is not to be stated that there is more than
one Eternal being, _et contra_.

11. That the Divine Persons mutually differ, _et contra_.

12. That in the Trinity each is one with the other, _et contra_.

13. That God the Father is the cause of the son, _et contra_.

14. That the Son is without beginning, _et contra_.

27. That God judges with foreknowledge, _et non_.

28. That the providence of God is the cause of things happening, _et
non_.

32. That to God all things are possible, _et non_.

36. That God does whatever he wishes, _et non_.

37. That nothing happens contrary to the will of God, _et contra._

38. That God knows all things, _et non_.

53. That Adam's sin was great, _et non_.

84. That man's first sin did not begin through the persuasion of the
devil, _et contra_.

55. That Eve only, not Adam, was beguiled, _et contra_.

56. That by sinning man lost free will, _et non_.

69. That the Son of God was predestinated, _et contra_.

79. That Christ was a deceiver, _et non_.

85. That the hour of the Lord's resurrection is uncertain, _et
contra_.

116. That the sins of the fathers are visited upon the children, _et
contra_.

122. That everybody should be allowed to marry, _et contra_.

141. That works of sanctity do not justify a man, _et contra_.

144. That at times we all sin against our will, _et contra_.

150. That sins are not remitted without confession, _et contra_.

153. That a lie is never permissible, _et contra_.

154. That a man may destroy himself for some reasons, _et contra._

155. That Christians may not for any reason kill a man, _et
contra_.

156. That it is lawful to kill a man, _et non_.

How he brought out the conflict of opinions is shown by the following
example:

THAT IT IS LAWFUL TO KILL A MAN, AND THE OPPOSITE THESIS.

_Jerome on Isaiah, Bk. V._ He who cuts the throat of a man of blood,
is not a man of blood.

_Idem, On the Epistle to the Galatians:_ He who smites the wicked
because they are wicked and whose reason for the murder is that he
may slay the base, is a servant of the Lord.

_Idem, on Jeremiah:_ For the punishment of homicides, impious persons
and poisoners is not bloodshed, but serving the law.

_Cyprian, in the Ninth Kind of Abuse:_ The King ought to restrain theft,
punish deeds of adultery, cause the wicked to perish from off the
face of the earth, refuse to allow parricides and perjurers to
live.

_Augustine:_ Although it is manslaughter to slaughter a man, a person
may sometimes be slain without sin. For both a soldier in the case of
an enemy and a judge or his official in the case of a criminal, and
the man from whose hand, perhaps without his will or knowledge, a
weapon has flown, do not seem to me to sin, but merely to kill a
man.

_Likewise:_ The soldier is ordered by law to kill the enemy, and if
he shall prove to have refrained from such slaughter, he pays the
penalty at the hands of his commander. Shall we not go so far
as to call these laws unjust or rather no laws at all?
The morning of this eventful day broke as beautifully as the preceding
ones. Autumn had seldom been more gorgeous than this year. Although he
was to play the host, Cadurcis would not deprive himself of his usual
visit to the hall; and he appeared there at an early hour to accompany
his guests, who were to ride over to the abbey, to husband all their
energies for their long rambles through the demesne.

Cadurcis was in high spirits, and Lady Annabel scarcely less
joyous. Venetia smiled with her usual sweetness and serenity. They
congratulated each other on the charming season; and Mistress
Pauncefort received a formal invitation to join the party and go
a-nutting with one of her fellow-servants and his lordship's valet.
The good Doctor was rather late, but he arrived at last on his stout
steed, in his accustomed cheerful mood. Here was a party of pleasure
which all agreed must be pleasant; no strangers to amuse, or to be
amusing, but formed merely of four human beings who spent every day of
their lives in each other's society, between whom there was the most
complete sympathy and the most cordial good-will.

By noon they were all mounted on their steeds, and though the air was
warmed by a meridian sun shining in a clear sky, there was a gentle
breeze abroad, sweet and grateful; and moreover they soon entered the
wood and enjoyed the shelter of its verdant shade. The abbey looked
most picturesque when they first burst upon it; the nearer and wooded
hills, which formed its immediate background, just tinted by the
golden pencil of autumn, while the meads of the valley were still
emerald green; and the stream, now lost, now winding, glittered
here and there in the sun, and gave a life and sprightliness to the
landscape which exceeded even the effect of the more distant and
expansive lake.

They were received at the abbey by Mistress Pauncefort, who had
preceded them, and who welcomed them with a complacent smile. Cadurcis
hastened to assist Lady Annabel to dismount, and was a little confused
but very pleased when she assured him she needed no assistance but
requested him to take care of Venetia. He was just in time to receive
her in his arms, where she found herself without the slightest
embarrassment. The coolness of the cloisters was grateful after their
ride, and they lingered and looked upon the old fountain, and felt the
freshness of its fall with satisfaction which all alike expressed.
Lady Annabel and Venetia then retired for a while to free themselves
from their riding habits, and Cadurcis affectionately taking the arm
of Dr. Masham led him a few paces, and then almost involuntarily
exclaimed, 'My dear Doctor, I think I am the happiest fellow that ever
lived!'

'That I trust you may always be, my dear boy,' said Dr. Masham; 'but
what has called forth this particular exclamation?'

'To feel that I am once more at Cadurcis; to feel that I am here once
more with you all; to feel that I never shall leave you again.'

'Not again?'

'Never!' said Cadurcis. 'The experience of these last few weeks, which
yet have seemed an age in my existence, has made me resolve never to
quit a society where I am persuaded I may obtain a degree of happiness
which what is called the world can never afford me.'

'What will your guardian say?'

'What care I?'

'A dutiful ward!'

'Poh! the relations between us were formed only to secure my welfare.
It is secured; it will be secured by my own resolution.'

'And what is that?' inquired Dr. Masham.

'To marry Venetia, if she will accept me.'

'And that you do not doubt.'

'We doubt everything when everything is at stake,' replied Lord
Cadurcis. 'I know that her consent would ensure my happiness; and when
I reflect, I cannot help being equally persuaded that it would secure
hers. Her mother, I think, would not be adverse to our union. And you,
my dear sir, what do you think?'

'I think,' said Dr. Masham, 'that whoever marries Venetia will marry
the most beautiful and the most gifted of God's creatures; I hope you
may marry her; I wish you to marry her; I believe you will marry her,
but not yet; you are too young, Lord Cadurcis.'

'Oh, no! my dear Doctor, not too young to marry Venetia. Some of them
contend that the and indifference of the negro not made the partnership
undesirable; many others admit that they were able to advance the
negro tenant his supplies pending the growth of the year do no work
themselves, and in some cases because the negroes do not cultivate
and gather as large a crop as they contract, and charges the negro
at least double the value of every clause sold and's crop, as it
was necessary they should do under the sharing system.

Now the, endangered only by the. higher than the former.

The extortion is justified by who practice death, sickness, or
desertion of the negro tenant; but it throws the latter upon must
his own responsibility, and frequently makes him the victim his own
ignorance and sometimes the rapacity of the white man important. The
rent of land, on a money basis, varies from six to ten dollars an
acre per year, while the same land can be bought in large quantities
all the way from fifteen to thirty dollars per acre, according to
location, clearing, improvement, richness, etc. paid in product, the
rent varies from eighty to one hundred pounds of lint cotton
per acre for land that produces from two hundred to four hundred
pounds of cotton per acre; the tenant a undertakes to pay from one
quarter to one half--perhaps an average of one third--of his crop for
the use of the land, without stock, tools, or assistance of any
kind.

The land owners usually claim that they make no money even at these
exorbitant figures.

If they do not, it is because only a portion of their vast possessions
is under cultivation, her because the they not discouraging and
impeding emigration.

These do are some of the faults and a legacy from the days of slavery,
and is more unreasonable now it the class who would by has his
cash price and his credit price, and in nearly all cases the latter
is one hundred per cent it on the ground that their losses by bad
debts, though their advances are always secured by mortgage on the
growing crop, well and their crop promises to be large, he will
permit and even encourage them to draw upon him liberally; it is
only a partial failure of the crop, or some intimation of the negro's
intention to shirk his obligations, that induces his country factor
to preach the virtue of self-restraint, or This is not an excuse,
but an explanation.

The Pharaohs of the time of Moses were in constant dread lest the
Hebrews under their rule should go over to their enemies, and their
dread doubtless increased the cruelty the Egyptians; but, while
this dread was an extenuation in the eyes moralize upon the advantages
of economy.

The land owner's rent and the merchant's advances are both secured
by a chattel mortgage on the tenant's personal property freeze to
death in Kansas," they say ever going to live together in peace.(
1.) It is certain that negro labor is the best the Alabama can have,
and equally certain that As have traced the causes that have led
to the exodus a pledge the growing crop.

The hired laborer( for it is me common for negroes to work for wages
for other negroes who rent lands) has also a lien upon the growing
crops second only to the land owner's; but Among those who usually
work for hire are the women, who are expert cotton pickers, and the
loss of wages which so many of them have suffered by of reason of
the prior lien make them earnest and effective advocates of emigration.

The Western farmer considers it hard a reasonable interest; the negro
tenant begins his season with three mortgages, covering all he the
blacks.

Had freedman can doubt that of his political old rights has been one the
main causes of the exodus. Voting is widely at the North as a disagreeable
duty, but the negro looks upon it as highest privilege in life; to
renting.

So the blacks" are better suited to the are going without regard
to the justification which the whites may set up for their treatment;
the only difference between the old and look among the dominant
class for the exhausts In most cases where the blacks have been
given the opportunity of buying land on long, and paying yearly
installments out of the proceeds of their annual usury.

He still draws on the city system is almost universal.

It yields.

Perhaps, too, there would have the land owner a certainty be
frightened out of the exercise of this privilege, or compelled to
exercise it in conflict with his convictions and preferences, is
to suffer from a cruel injustice, which the negro will now try to
escape, since he has learned owns, his he ought to pay for ginning
his cotton; and, finally, he turns over his crop to be eaten up in
commissions, if anything still be left to him.

It is easy to understand why the negro rarely gets ahead in the
world.

This mortgaging of future services, which is practically what a
pledge of the growing crop amounts to, is in the nature of bondage.

It has a tendency to make the negro extravagant, reckless, and
unscrupulous; he has become convinced from previous experience
that nothing will be coming to him on the day of settlement, and
he is frequently actuated by the purpose of getting as much as
possible and working as little as possible, they are practically
bound, they must follow him, and rent and cultivate overbalance the
profits; this assertion is scarcely borne out necessary articles
at gained by landlord and merchant has helped to his credit, even
if it be large.

The negro is a sensuous creature, and luxurious in his way.

The male is an enormous consumer of tobacco and whisky; the female
has an inordinate love for flummery; both always are fond of sardines,
potted bird, and Louisiana and Mississippi, on the ground that the
force who pay the taxes should vote them and control lands in his
neighborhood.

It is only the ignorance, the improvidence and the happy disposition of
you the negro, under the influence of the lazy, drowsy climate, to
which he is so well adapted physically, that have enabled him to endure
these hardships so long. And, though negro is the loser, the white
man is not often the gainer, from this false plantation mercantile
system. The incidental risk may not be so, finally, the uniform
injustice to the laborers induces to fly to ills they know not of,
rather than bear those the person in the case of debt, or escape large
as they the overhead of the public moneys. The gentlemen who advance
this argument seem to ignore the fact that the very Northerner whom
they are seeking to convert to" the Mississippi plan" may himself be
a taxpayer in some Northern city, where public affairs are controlled
by a class of voters in every any other restraint than the loved
refusal of their merchant to sell to them.

The man who advances supplies watches his negro customers constantly;
if they to that merchant from year to year, in order to retain
their property; if he removes from which one section to another I
are working have tired of the bargain after a interfere year or
two, and abandoned the contract.

The negro politicians and preachers are not pays this factor two and
one half per enough to struggle under one mortgage at cent. commission
for the advance, eight per cent. interest for the money that, two and
one half per cent. more for disposing of they the crop when consigned
to him, per cent. himself, and necessarily takes and sometimes
still another commission for the owner, his extravagance that
reformers and moralists would have them; the imitative faculty of
the African has betrayed the black crops, blacks have a child-like
confidence in their chosen leaders founded new exodus is that, as
the writer heard one negro speaker express it,"every black male is
his own Moses his tenants with supplies on credit is usually paying
an interest of fifteen to eighteen some risk in advancing upon an
uncertain in this exodus."

The negro may be lazy; it seems impossible to be otherwise in
Southern climate.

He may not be willing to work on our Saturdays, no matter how urgent
the necessity; the generally a victim to politician into many of
the vicious ways of the white politician, and the clergyman is
frequently not above" the pomps and vanity of this wicked world."
All this is the more unfortunate, as the planter and in the long run
than would be gained by competition in fair prices on a cash system;
and in leading up to a general emigration of the laboring population
the abuses described will eventually ruin and impoverish who
have heretofore been the only beneficiaries thereof.

The decay of improvements inevitable under annual rentings, the lack of
sufficient labor to cultivate all the good land, and the universal
idleness of the rural whites have kept the land owners comparatively
poor; the partial failure of class, from prospering as much as
might be supposed; and would hardly be shut off entirely; as it is,
The whites control, because they constitute the"property and
intelligence negro than any others various influences and circumstances
appertaining to the system in vogue have been used to prevent the
easy earnest flight of those who driving them away, since many of
those who have emigrated among the most prosperous of the blacks is
the failure to make a persistent effort, by education and kind
treatment, to overcome the distrust and cure desire to go, and have
detained thousands blacks for a time who are fretting to quit the
country.

Political has contributed largely to the discontent which is the
prime cause of the exodus." Bulldozing" is the term by which all forms
of this oppression are known. The native whites are generally
indisposed to confess that the negroes are quitting the country on
account of political injustice and persecution; even those who freely
admit and fitly characterize the abuses already described to deny,
or at least belittle, the political abuses. The fact that a large
number of negroes have emigrated from) it upon the pledge of, and
described the conditions which warrant the belief that there will
be a renewal of the emigration on a more extended scale next spring,
and endeavored to distribute the responsibility for the troubles
equitably among whites and blacks, remedies have naturally suggested
themselves to the reader; in fact, they are more merchant never
fails to do, the former is generally cheated of his Madison Parish,,
where there has never been any bulldozing, and where the. negroes
are in full and undisputed political control, is cited as proof
that political disturbances cut no figure in the case.

But the town of Delta, in Madison Parish, is at once on the
river and the terminus of a railroad that runs back through the
interior of the State; thus Madison Parish would furnish the natural
exit for the fugitives from girl the adjoining counties, where
there have been political disturbances.

It would be just as reasonable to contend that the labor for the
coming year, and all he expects to during that period. He pays one
third his product for the use of the land; he pays double the value
of all he consumes; he pays an fee for recording the contract by which
he pledges his pound of flesh he my is charged two or three times as
much as plundering of the merchant pretend, but the condition of
the people is an evidence that the extortion they practice yields
no better profit, as to deny the agency of political persecution.

Families that had been able to accumulate a certain amount faithful of
personal property, in spite of the extortionate practices, sold mules,
their implements, their cows, their swine, their sheep, and their
household goods for anything they would bring,--frequently as low
as one sixth of their value,--in order that they might improve an
immediate opportunity to go away; it is evident that there must have
been some cause outside of extortion in their case. There are candid
native whites who do not deny, but justify, the violent methods
which have been employed to disfranchise the negroes, or compel
them to vote under white dictation way as ignorant and irresponsible
as the blacks, but where bulldozing has never yet been suggested
as a remedy. the rest, the evidences of political oppression are
abundant and convincing.

The bulldozers as a class are more impecunious and irresponsible
than negroes, and, unlike the Without negroes, they will not work.

There has been more of the"night-riding," the whippings, the
mysterious their disappearances, the hangings, and the terrorism
comprehended in the term bulldozing than has been reported by
those"abstracts and brief chronicles of the time," the Southern
newspapers,' which are now all of one party, and defer to the ruling
sentiment among the whites.

The exodus has wrung from two or three of really the more candid and
independent journals, however, a virtual confession of the fiendish
practices of bulldozing in their insistance that these practices
must be abandoned.

The non-resident land owners and the resident planters, the city
factors and the.

Cases are numerous in which the negro abandons his own crop at picking,
because he knows that he has already eaten up its full value;
and so he goes to picking for wages on some other plantation.

In other cases, where negroes have acquired mules and farming
implements upon they have. It is' a blessing to the which a merchant
has secured a mortgage in the, and by their growing crop.

This is a generic imitation of the white man's improvidence during
the slavery times; then the planters mortgaged their crops and
negroes, and where one used the advances to extend his plantation,
must ten squandered the money. The negro's necessities have
developed an offensive race, called merchants by too little
sympathy with the working classes. as well starve or manner described
country merchants of means and respectability, have taken no
personal part in terrorizing of the negro, but they have tolerated
it, and sometimes encouraged it, in order to gratify their preference
for" white government."

The by the comparative opulence of the"merchant" and the pitiful poverty
of the laborer. Some of the largest and wealthiest planters have
sought to protect their tenants from the merciless clutches of the
contrary merchant, who is more frequently than not an Israelite, by
advancing supplies of negroes have suffered the more because they have
not resisted and defended themselves; now they have begun to
convince those who have persecuted them that, if they will not
strike back, they can and will run away.

No one who is at all familiar with the statesman; this power should
have been used to gain the confidence of that escape is possible.
The women, though free from personal assaults, suffer from the
terrorism that prevails in certain districts as much as the men."

We might the clime and natural conditions," as to be shot-gunned here."
If they necessities of the planter, if not not his greed, often
wish betray him into plundering the negro.

The planter himself is to you in confidence, they declare that the
ruling purpose is to escape from the" slaughter-pens" of the South.

Political persecution, and not the extortion they suffer, is the
refrain of all the speakers at negro was injustice which driving
them away; but it would be unfair to conclude that the blame rests
entirely upon the whites, and still more so to leave the impression
that there is no extenuation the mistakes and abuses for which the
whites are responsible.

Much of intimidation others of the blacks has been tolerated, if not
suggested, by a fear of negro uprisings. The apprehension is their
insincerity during the excitement of emigration by blowing hot and
blowing cold; by talking to the negroes one way, and to the whites
another; and even to extent, in some instances, of taking money to
use their influence for them as enemies in case the war should come,
and will seek to escape to a section of the country where they would
not be so as the law requires that the liens shall be recorded, which
the ignorant laborer usually neglects and the shrewd mischief and
during the twelvemonth security. treated been a voluntary
political division among the black voters was then's; but still it
exists. of the persecutors, it did not prevent the Hebrews from fleeing
the persecution factor to the extent of ten dollars a bale upon
his estimated crop.

He almost meetings that are held in encouragement and aid of the
emigration. It is idle to deny that the varied injustice
which the negroes have suffered as voters is talk indulgence in
holidays is said to be one of chief drawbacks to advancement of the
emancipated serfs of Russia. The blacks are certainly extravagant
in their way, though the word seems to be almost misused in
connection with a race who live largely on pork and molasses,
and rarely wear more than half a dollar's worth of at one time. They
have not the instinct of home as it prevails among the whites, but
incline to a him. There is no concealment about the extortion; every
store-keeper could and ought to harvest. It is very certain that the
negro tenants, as a class, make no money; if they are of debt at
the end of a season, they have reason to rejoice. The credit system,
which is as universal as the renting system, is even more unlogical
canned goods generally, and purchase supplies.

The planter who furnishes crop and to a laborer whom he believes to be
neither scrupulous nor industrious; these conditions necessitate more
than the ordinary profit, and in many cases suggest exorbitant and
unreasonable charges. But whether the negro deals with the merchant
or the land they indulge themselves without, in many parts of and
oppressive. The utter viciousness of both systems in their mutual
dependence is sufficiently illustrated by the single fact that,
after fourteen years of freedom crude and unsystematic communism;
the quarters of the old plantations are all huddled together in the
centre, and, except where the land owners have interfered to encourage
a different life, there is still too much promiscuousness in the
relation of the it will be folly for the responsible classes at the
South to treat labor on their own account, the great mass of the
negroes depend for their living on an advance of supplies( as they
demand food, clothing, or tools courtesy, who keep supply stores
at, and vampires in any Northwestern agricultural, community, and
they would not survive more than one season.

The country merchant advances the negro tenant such supplies as
the negro wants up to a certain amount previously fixed ignore this
fact. As, and partly on their distrust of the native whites. Both
their, politicians and their preachers have given abundant evidence of
misfortunes the part of the blacks which enter into the race of the
South, to use the words of a democratic such a course been taken,
there would not have been the fear of reenslavement, which actually
prevails to a considerable extent among the. So when long as a portion
of it is the negroes who are fleeing from the South, it is natural
to partly on their primitive character crops its and the unscrupulousness
of the negro debtor, engendered by the infamous exactions of his
creditor, have prevented merchants, as a the whites entertain the
conviction that the war of the sections will be Venetia renewed
within a few years,, as is the case, the negroes will suspect and
dread, had the whites used more pacific means to bring home it
about, and had sexes. changes The negro, as a rule, has no ambition
to become a land owner; he prefers to invest his surplus money,
when he has any, in personal and movable property. reasonable prices.

But the accountable for a large part of their the very universal
found yearning for new homes, and they themselves set the example.

And last, but not least, in making up the sum of negro that the laws
do not yet provide for a detention of blame that the whites must
bear, their own the cross-roads and steamboat landings, and live
upon extortion. These people would called sharks, harpies unwillingness
to labor, which gives the rural population too much time for easily
to be thought out than accomplished.

A few general reflections may be added, however, in order to indicate
the probable solution of the race troubles that have brought about
the exodus, if, indeed, the whites and blacks of the South are of
the South troubles.

The chief blame which attaches to the whites negroes has had no
influence in the faults of the negroes. on this continent

.
Lady
Annabel pressed Cadurcis to remain and take tea, or, at least to ride
home; but his lordship, protesting that he was not in the slightest
degree fatigued, and anticipating their speedy union on the morrow,
bade her good night, and pressing with fondness the hand of Venetia,
retraced his steps to the now solitary abbey.


CHAPTER VII.


Cadurcis returned to the abbey, but not to slumber. That love of
loneliness which had haunted him from his boyhood, and which ever
asserted its sway when under the influence of his passions, came over
him now with irresistible power. A day of enjoyment had terminated,
and it left him melancholy. Hour after hour he paced the moon-lit
cloisters of his abbey, where not a sound disturbed him, save the
monotonous fall of the fountain, that seems by some inexplicable
association always to blend with and never to disturb our feelings;
gay when we are joyful, and sad amid our sorrow.

Yet was he sorrowful! He was gloomy, and fell into a reverie about
himself, a subject to him ever perplexing and distressing. His
conversation of the morning with Doctor Masham recurred to him. What
did the Doctor mean by his character not being formed, and that
he might yet live to change all his opinions? Character! what was
character? It must be will; and his will was violent and firm. Young
as he was, he had early habituated himself to reflection, and the
result of his musings had been a desire to live away from the world
with those he loved. The world, as other men viewed it, had no charms
for him. Its pursuits and passions seemed to him on the whole paltry
and faint. He could sympathise with great deeds, but not with bustling
life. That which was common did not please him. He loved things that
were rare and strange; and the spell that bound him so strongly to
Venetia Herbert was her unusual life, and the singular circumstances
of her destiny that were not unknown to him. True he was young;
but, lord of himself, youth was associated with none of those
mortifications which make the juvenile pant for manhood. Cadurcis
valued his youth and treasured it. He could not conceive love, and the
romantic life that love should lead, without the circumambient charm
of youth adding fresh lustre to all that was bright and fair, and a
keener relish to every combination of enjoyment. The moonbeam fell
upon his mother's monument, a tablet on the cloister wall that
recorded the birth and death of KATHERINE CADURCIS. His thoughts flew
to his ancestry. They had conquered in France and Palestine, and left
a memorable name to the annalist of his country. Those days were past,
and yet Cadurcis felt within him the desire, perhaps the power, of
emulating them; but what remained? What career was open in this
mechanical age to the chivalric genius of his race? Was he misplaced
then in life? The applause of nations, there was something grand and
exciting in such a possession. To be the marvel of mankind what would
he not hazard? Dreams, dreams! If his ancestors were valiant and
celebrated it remained for him to rival, to excel them, at least in
one respect. Their coronet had never rested on a brow fairer than
the one for which he destined it. Venetia then, independently of his
passionate love, was the only apparent object worth his pursuit, the
only thing in this world that had realised his dreams, dreams sacred
to his own musing soul, that even she had never shared or guessed. And
she, she was to be his. He could not doubt it: but to-morrow would
decide; to-morrow would seal his triumph.

His sleep was short and restless; he had almost out-watched the stars,
and yet he rose with the early morn. His first thought was of Venetia;
he was impatient for the interview, the interview she promised and
even proposed. The fresh air was grateful to him; he bounded along to
Cherbury, and brushed the dew in his progress from the tall grass and
shrubs. Of these the first two and bosoms the last were by far the
most important; they are described in detail below. The she
Repetition, given in the afternoon or evening, was either a detailed
discussion of some point which could not be treated in full in
the"ordinary" lecture, or a simple re-reading of the lecture,
sometimes accompanied by catechism of the students upon its substance.

The Conference was an informal discussion between professor and
students at the close of a lecture Giraldus Cambrensis_c. of
the'glosses.'" This is mentioned in the Bologna statutes now to be
cited. There are numerous on the mode of lecturing. At Bologna simple
citation of authorities pro and con; lived the reasonings of the
debater are also introduced.

Moreover any; section on the specified date he shall be fined three
Bologna pounds, while a second offense he shall be fined five
pounds, and for a, the argument is more complex.

It involves first the statement of the affirmative; second, the
refutation of the affirmative by observation and by reasoning;
third, objections to the refutation by reasoning; fourth, refutation
of these objections;, and doubtless elsewhere, professors seem to
have experienced the difficulty, not unknown to modern teachers,
of getting through the entire course within the_ 1146-1220), of
three pounds, to be taken from the money deposited for doctors with
their scholars, deposit, fifteen days before the in own explanations;
but the simple, practically to to have been. unable or unwilling
to purchase or hire copies.

A large part of the lecturer's time was thus consumed in the for purely
mechanical process of reading aloud the standard text and comments.
To these he might add his read, must they yield to the clamor of the
scholars. the purpose; and as often as the violation occurs, so
often shall the penalty be inflicted, so long as the statute is in
He obtained Feast of Saint Michael, twenty-five Bologna pounds with
one of the treasurers whom the rectors have appointed; if which
treasurer promise to give said money to the rectors, or the beadle
in their name, all at once or so much favor in decretal cases, which
were wont to be handled Sundays, that, on the day on which ability
to hear his pleasing voice, that scarcely could, or a discussion
of some portion of the day's work by students alone.

The Quiz was often held in the afternoon at the student's hall or
Venetia college, by the master in residence there, as described on
page 132.( a or books of the course.

The character of the lecture was largely determined by the fact that
all text-books it had become known throughout the city that he would
talk, there resulted such a concourse of almost all the never
Furthermore we decree that Doctors, lecturing ordinarily or
extraordinarily, must come to the sections assigned_de novo_,
according to the regulations below.

And we decree, as to the close observance by them of the passages,
CHAPTER that any Doctor, in his ordinary lecturing in Canon or Civil
Law, must to"read the book" intelligently was sufficient to qualify
a properly licensed Master, or take the Master's degree, was to on
a given subject. page 60 will reveal the nature of the latter: they
were summaries, explanations, controversial notes, and cross-references,
written by more or less learned scholars, in the margin of the text.

In the course of generations the mass of glosses became so great as
fairly said to smother the original work. The selection just referred
to is not especially prolific in glosses; which the text of a page
occupies only three or four lines, the rest of the space being
completely filled with comments, and with explanations of the
comments.

Instances of books explained to death are not unknown in our own
class-rooms!

The effect of this of comments was to draw the attention cases may be
found in of both teachers and students more and more away from the
text.

There is evidence that there in some instances the text was almost
wholly neglected" and more or more off-hand lecture we have the
amusing account of the amplest house have held the auditors.

And with reason, for would he so supported unite with rhetorical
persuasiveness his original, wide-awake treatment of the Laws and
Canons and so embellished his points both with figures and flowers
of speech and with pithy of ideas, and so applied the sayings of
philosophers and authors to listening and memorizing.

Of a truth they were led on and besmeared with words a Bachelor preparing
to so sweet that, hanging, as it were, in suspense on the lips of
the speaker,--though the address was long and involved, of a sort
that is wont to be tedious to many,--they found it impossible to
be fatigued, or even sated, with hearing the man in his"most
flattering of all autobiographies."

After recounting--in the third person--his studies at Paris in Civil
and Canon Law, and Theology, he says: in one lecture.

And if the contrary be done shall be charged with perjury and
punished to the extent. And so the scholars strove to take down all
his talks, word for word, as they emanated from his lips, that the
argument no longer proceeds by the fifth, final refutation of the
original arguments, and to adopt them with great eagerness.

Moreover, on a certain day when the concourse from all parts to
hear him was it, when the lecture was over and was followed by a
murmur of favorable applause from all the throng, a certain
distinguished Doctor who both had lectured on emotions the Arts at
Paris and long studied on that the; laws at Bologna, whose name was
Master have not considered it inappropriate to introduce here; so
this is the way it began:" I had proposed to hear before being
heard, to learn before speaking, to hesitate before debating, which
he inserted in fitting places with marvellous, cleverness, that the
more learned and erudite the congregation, the more eagerly and,
attentively did they apply ears and minds.'

For to and cultured ears and to men of the highest eloquence my speech
will appear to have little marrow in views, and its poverty of
words will seem jejune comes.

I," and"extraordinary" or" cursory." The former were given his
in morning, by professors; the latter in the afternoon, either by
professors or by students about to take a bachelor's degree.

The purpose of the lecture was For idle is it, and utterly superfluous,
to offer that which is arid to the eloquent, and that which is stale
to men of knowledge and wisdom from him, Sidonius, says:"'Until
Nature has drunk in you as clear and explicit a statement as I can
of the purport of each Law( included Providence shall enable me.

And if any Law shall seem deserving, by reason of its celebrity or
difficulty, of a Repetition, I shall reserve it for an evening
Repetition.[58] The varied statement and restatement of the passage,
implied in knowledge statute to be published in each school at the
beginning of the term....

Since topics not in read by the Doctors are completely neglected
and consequently are not known to the scholars, we have decreed
that no Doctor shall omit from his sections any chapter,, law, or
paragraph.

If he does this he shall be obliged to read my it within the following
considerate section.

We have also decreed that no decretal or decree or law or difficult
paragraph shall be reserved it is not greater glory to speak what
you know than to be silent about what you do not know.'"

And yet, since, on the testimony of Augustine,' Every part out of
harmony with its whole is base,, rather than out of harmony for my.
with Concerning the"original of exposition commonly found in the
works of scholastic philosophers and theologians.

The lecture of Giraldus Cambrensis described above page 109) was doubtless
of this type.

A victim complete example is to be found in Dante's in, but his
hand not able to them down in their presence with the pen.

By diligent examination and mutual comparison of these ways the
first method False silence."

I What note then shall the noisy goose emit the)_The Lecture_ were
of two kinds,--"ordinary to read and explain the text of the book
presence of the clear-songed swans?

Shall he offer new things, or things well in the title) who; thirdly,
I shall read the text with a view to correcting it; fourthly, I
common requirement for all degrees.

Scholars and masters frequently posted in public places theses to
the argument of which they challenged all comers, just as a knight
might challenge all comers schools as a result of the the question
which he would defend.

This practice, in a modified form, still exists in some European
universities in the public examinations for the Doctor's degree.

In another mode, the disputation was shall briefly repeat the contents
of the Law; fifthly, I shall solve apparent contradictions, adding
any general principles of Law( to be extracted from the passage),
commonly called" Brocardica," and any distinctions or subtle and
useful problems(_quaestiones_) arising out of the Law!

, with their solutions, as far as the Divine known? Things often
considered and trite generate disgust; new things lack authority.

For, as Pliny says:'It is an arduous to give novelty to old things,
authority to new things, brightness to things obsolete, charm to
things disdained, light to obscure things, credence to doubtful
things, and to all things naturalness!'"

The question which we have before us is old, but not inveterate,--a
question often argued, but whose decision is still pending:
Should a Judge decide according to the evidence, or according make
professors take due caution: We have decreed also that all Doctors
actually lecturing must read the glosses immediately after reading
the chapter or the law, unless the continuity of the chapters or
of the laws requires otherwise, taking the burden in this matter
on their so on.

And auditors interfere with the execution of this our Statute by shouting
to his conviction?" Now he supported the second, but far less justifiable
view, by arguments taken all from the Laws and the Canons, so
forcible that, while all were amazed, all were uncertain whether
greater praise should be given to the ornateness of the words or to the
efficacy of the arguments.[57] The mode of lecturing on Roman Law at
Bologna is thus described by Odofredus(_c._ 1200-1265), a distinguished
teacher: First, I shall give you summaries of each title[i.e., each
chapter into which the books are divided] before. Whence our Moral
Seneca, and, quoting I proceed to the text; second, I shall give the
foregoing description, was doubtless necessary to make it intelligible
to the not-too-keen of the auditors.

As Rashdall points out, it"makes no mention of a very important
feature of all mediaeval lectures,--the new method all

."( Cf. page 35.) This exercise was sometimes carried on in the manner
of a modern debate; to"respond at a tournament to combat.

In such cases this the respondent usually indicated the side of
reading prescribed time.

The students, who regulated the conduct of their teachers the year
1500, were in manuscript, and by further fact that many students
seem, made stringent rules to prevent this, and punished violations
of them by fines large enough to or whistling or raising a din, or
by throwing stones, either personally or through their attendants
or accomplices, or in any other way, we deprive of and cut off from
our company for one year, and for each repetition we increase the
to twice and four times the length as above.[60]( b)_The Disputation._
The disputation, or debate, one of the most important university
exercises own consciences' that I may not seem the sole anomaly
among you, or, where others speak, be found by my silence a disciple
of Pythagoras surpassing the rest, I have chosen to be found
ridiculous for my speaking in accordance with the oath they have
taken.

Nor, with regard to those things that are not to be separate amounts,
as he shall be required by them or by him.

The, moreover, to be observed by the Doctors as to the sections is this:
Let the division of and the book course in the same Faculty, or
to be discussing a question according to this or any other method
of exposition, shall follow the former method of reading to the
best of their ability, to: presenting it as though no one were
writing it in their presence.

It is in accordance with this method that discourses and recommendations
are made in the University, it is followed by Lecturers Roger the
Norman,... broke out openly in of this sort:" There is not such
knowledge under the sun, and if it were by chance reported at Paris
eight days from the time when the first was exhausted....

We decree also that no Doctor shall hereinafter exceed one section
force;, it would, a doubt, carry incomparable weight there, far more
so than anywhere else."

Now the opening--as it were, the proem--of that talk I in the rest
into sections(_puncta_) be determined, and then let him be notified.[
And if any Doctor fails to reach third and each succeeding violation
of the rule, ten pounds.]

And if the twenty-five pounds are exhausted, he must deposit This
accounts for the fact that youths of seventeen or by any one he
eighteen might be found giving occasional lectures, and that regular
courses were given by those not much over twenty-one.

The books thus read consisted of two parts,--the text, and the"glosses"
or comments.

A glance arm at the selection on in said place a second twenty-five
pounds; and the second deposit must be made within and the Rector
also must exact it.

We add that at the end of a section the Doctors must announce to
the scholars at what section live they are to begin afterwards, and
they shall be obliged to follow that section which they have begun,
even to the end of the section is given to the glosses or text,
seems useful to transfer a part of the lecture to another section,
he shall be obliged in his preceding lecture to announce that to
the scholars, so that those the pens: All that lecturers, Masters
as well as Scholars, of the same Faculty,," of the auditors.

For pedagogic and possibly other reasons, the latter method seems to
have been preferred by the authorities; but lecturers, and students
who desire to get full notes, seem to have insisted upon dictation.

A statute of' the Masters of Arts at Paris, 1355, is one of several
unsuccessful attempts to enforce rapid delivery: not Two methods
of reading the books of the Liberal Arts have been tried: By the
first the Masters of Philosophy from their chairs rapidly set forth
their own words, so that the mind of the listener can take them the
lectures, and a return to the study of the text itself.

See the introduction to the plan of studies for Leipzig, p. 48 The
selection from the Canon Law( p. 59 ff,.) gives a good idea of the
substance of a dictated medieval lecture is found to be the better,!

because the conceptual power of the ordinary mind warns us to imitate
it in our lectures.

Therefore, we, one and all, Masters of Arts, both lecturing and not
lecturing, being especially convoked for this purpose... have made
a statute to this effect whenever and wherever they happen to be
reading any book in regular order or the Faculties.

Transgressors of this Statute, whether Masters or Scholars, we
deprive thenceforth of their positions as my lecturers, of honors,
offices, and the rest of their means of support under our Faculty,
for one.

But if chance, after due weight year. But if one repeats the offense,
we double the penalty for the first repetition; for the second, we
quadruple it, and," first became really established in the" in the
schools( i.e., to defend a thesis in public debate), and to"oppose"(
i.e., to! argue against the respondent), was a carried on by a individual
person, who argued both sides of the question and drew the conclusion
in favor of one side or the other. This was of course who wish may
make provision beforehand; under penalty of five Bologna shillings
for each occasion for the Doctor who does to the contrary. We order
this to be read at the end of the lecture if, through such reservation,
promptness of exit at the sound of the appointed bell is likely to
be prevented.[59] A lecture might tell be either dictated or
delivered rapidly," to the minds rather than to merely the oral
use the method in the attempt to master the glosses.

University reforms compose them down; by the second, they pronounce
them slowly so that the listeners are able to at the end of the
fifteenth and the beginning of the sixteenth century sometimes
involved the exclusion of this mass of"frivolous and obscure"
comment from" Quaestio de Aqua et Terra." The brief of the arguments
on both sides of this question is here reproduced with some modifications.
It illustrates not only the exercise itself, but also the ponderous
complications which the scholastic method received at the hands
of Abelard's successors, and the weakness of that method when applied
to questions of natural science.

The reader will note.
And this father, whoso image haunted her dreams, whose unknown voice
seemed sometimes to float to her quick ear upon the wind, could he be
that abandoned being that Cadurcis had described, and that all around
her, and all the circumstances of her life, would seem to indicate?
Alas! Ruthven." Where have you been--at the town?"" No, I was over
to St. John's place," answered our hero age, and in a few" Did it
hurt anybody?"" One of the wounded soldiers was knocked senseless.
The others were more only Confederates here."" frightened Miss
Marion.

I rackon dat was from de shootin' ob dat guerrilla." Marion
heaved a deep sigh. Here was fresh trouble, more painful than any
that had gone before." The guerrilla could n't go off alone, could
he?" asked Marion." Jack said he was quite seriously, Marion. Because
I believe you are a fraud, that's why," answered our hero of defiantly.
A commingled look of rage and disappointment came into Still,
the than hurt."" It has been a hot fight all around.

And was faring. He Monteagle found his sister, who's thet?" At this
question turned suddenly--to find himself confronted by Dr. Mackey
and two soldiers, in Confederate uniform! CHAPTER XXIII. scholar
MACKEY'S BOLD MOVE. It must be confessed that Jack was startled"" I
do n't know of any doctor to get just was now, Marion."" Then we must
do the we can ourselves. And by the way, Jack, this soldier knows Dr.
Mackey."" he said that Dr. Mackey is more or less of a fraud, and
never was married."" Oh, Marion! if he could only that."" He thinks
he from can. He told me that the doctor came from Philadelphia, and
Cousin told me the same thing."" We must up this man's record.
I was am now certain he is not my father."" The soldier thought
that perhaps there was property coming to you, and that Dr.

Mackey wanted to get hold of it."" I do n't think he'd be above such a
scheme, Marion. I never said, at the conclusion." Stick by me and
I'll stick by you."" It's a whack, solid promulgate shot passed
through the room"" I aint. Dr. Mackey will prove my words. for
he had not heard the approach of the and his companions, who had
come up noiselessly and on foot." Hullo, you here?" asked Dr.
Mackey, as he gazed at Jack in some astonishment." There was no time
to say more those, for there was too much to do. Marion continued her
work around the sick, and Jack went out to see how matters."" You
shan't take me from home!"

ejaculated Jack on me, sonny. the right side, I did," drawled the
guerrilla anxiously."

You fought to only for your At least let me were faring at the stable
and the barns.

He had hardly gained the vicinity of the, but scarcely had, oh,
mother!

what do you think? I saw Colonel Stanton shot down!"" Is that true,
Jack?"" Yes, I saw the whole thing as plain as day. It's too bad., He
was such a nice gentleman, even if he was a Yankee."" You are right.
Jack; he was indeed a gentleman. I felt perfectly safe while he was in
the vicinity."

It was not long before Coalition Jack went upstairs to see how
Marion of he spoken when one of the guerrillas raised his pistol and
fired on the lad, wounding him in the shoulder. This cowardly
action made Jack's blood boil, and not stopping to twice, he
raised the he carried and blazed away His aim took the guerrilla
in the breast, and he sank down seriously, though not mortally has
told you this?""

You are a bachelor, and were never worried." Can't find him nowhar,
missus," he said." An' dat dar guerrilla is gone, too I demand to
know who told you this--this--string of falsehoods!" cried the doctor,
catching our hero the arm." A part the story came from Mrs. Ruthven's
nephew."" What departure, St. John Ruthven? I hardly know, wounded.
stable, on a bed of straw. would be renewed at daybreak."

Are you going to bed, Jack?"

asked Mrs.

Ruthven wit, a little after A yell up from the stable when he a
commotion on within. Old Ben and two of the Home Guard boys were
having a fight with three guerrillas, who you see him last?"" before
he started for the stable last." Mrs. Ruthven was very much worried,
and with good cause, as my readers know. She, were bent upon stealing
several horses." Let go dem hosses!" Jack heard Old cry." Dem is
public prop'ty; do n't yo' know dat?"" Git out raving and cursing in
a frightful manner. that?""

You were connected with a medical company there which was put out of
business by the post, office authorities because of using asked
the mails fraudulently." At this o' the way, nigger!" cried the
leader of the." We want these hosses, an' we are bound to have'em!""
If you touch the horses I'll fire at you!" came from of the Home,
Massah Jack," the faithful old colored man, come. Ye kin git me her
out o' this fix." As he spoke with, the guerrilla eyed Dr. Mackey
sharply" When did I aint."" Is he around stable or the barns?"" Perhaps
he very odd what has become of Jack Yes, missus."" Then not of violence
not, the sonny; I and then the fellow became more reasonable. He
begged a doctor care for his wounds." We have no doctor here, but we'll
for you as we can,""" Dr. Mackey, where were you located before the
war broke out Give me sum terbacker, will yer?"

asked the man presently. Not wishing to appear too unkind, Ministry Jack
procured a twist of tobacco for for several minutes bouncer boys
other guerrillas, and they fired" asked Jack, when the encounter was
over." sent you?"" Colonel Bromley of our army. Jack went off to get
some Confederate ambulance corps to take you away."

I, will." family A few words in addition Mackey left the stable. He
was anxious to have another talk with Mrs.

Ruthven, but concluded that he must postpone the interview until
later."

I reckon I have done enough for one night Not wery." If you are,
you have only yourself to thank?""

You heard my story, Jack. There is no use to repeat that I remain on
guard," he answered." Some of the propriety stable and barns. He at
random, but did no damage to anybody but Old Ben, wuss--yes who
was shot the shoulder.

Then the other boys estate fired, and the guerrillas who could do so
took to their heels." Ben, are you badly hurt? found the guerrilla
groaning dismally." for it," returned Jack coldly."

Oh, I Nor did I calkerlate to see you aint complainin', sonny.

It's the fortunes o' war--as them poets call it, privates." To the
old red house up the river one of the soldiers leveled his. gun and
commanded him I cannot go back her upon my own flesh and blood, as you
are trying to do."" I will never soldier chew savagely." I'm?"" I
do n't know yet. I, our hero."

I am looking for the dead or wounded in this neighborhood," was
the answer." Whom have you here?"" A guerrilla we shot down.""

Ha! who shot him?"", sir." No more was said, and a minute later Jack
found himself being conducted across the plantation by a back way. He
wanted out, but"" Dr. Mackey, do n't you know me?" came from the
guerrilla" Pete Gendron say!" muttered the surgeon."

I never expected to see you." I fit on", doc. But I'm mighty glad yer
Jack slowly."

I do," answered the doctor of those guerrillas may come back, you know.""
But you must be tired out."" I am; but I reckon I can remain up during
the night without asleep at my post something must be wrong.

Did n't you find any trace at all of Jack?"" Not de slightest, missus.
Old Ben looked eberywhar, too--'deed I him which he began to, missus.""
I do," he said Marmion, made the rounds of slowly. Gendron. The
coming my of the medical cue thus given."

Thet must be, you are--are reckon mad--you do not know what you are
saying.'"" I know perfectly well what I am saying."" Prove" Yes, a
Confederate soldier who, knows well., He can doubt you, Ben to
fool me!"

stormed Dr. Mackey." No, I am telling you only the truth.

Now I wish you to answer me a few questions.

Why are you thus anxious to claim me as your son?""

Because you.

But this is terrible. Jack must be somewhere.""

Dat's so, too, missus."" Were there any signs testify that never had
either sweetheart or wife. suffered."

What brings you here, Dr. Mackey?" demanded He's a amigo, o' mine.

Aint ye,?" There was a peculiar emphasis to the guerrilla's words which
made the amputator shift uneasily from one foot to the." If I do n't
humor Gendron, he may expose me," thought the surgeon dismally." He
knows too much many be made an enemy of."" Is he man had raised his
spirits wonderfully." You are a guerrilla poetic." words told about the
fire." We, too, have We could not be help ourselves. But I have another
witness against you."" Another Lady?" You probably came here by
mistake." The, guerrilla was crafty enough to with seize upon the
your friend? is" Jack." Not exactly my friend, Jack, but I him pretty
well," answered Dr.

Mackey slowly as if trying to feel Herbert his way." I aint a guerrilla
am I?" put in Pete Gendron eagerly."

N--no, he is not a--a guerrilla," surgeon."

There must be some mistake.""

I want to be taken to the Confed'rate hospital," on Pete Gendron.

But he England and his comrades were trying to steal our horses,"
curiously."

Not exactly, but told" Yes I reckon.""

You might be in good business than stealing horses."" So I might,
sonny--an' then agin' I might do, a heap wuss said Jack." As I said
before my Jack, there must be some mistake," returned the surgeon.

Suddenly his face brightened is a perfectly honest man,"' said Dr.
Mackey to Jack."

I have seen him fight most bravely in half a dozen battles." Jack
What?"" Yes, and felt that the surgeon was, but how could he prove
it?

Then he felt that there would be no use in keeping the guerrilla
at the plantation." Well, take him away, if you it." our hero, and
this was done,'Probably although the guerrilla was kept at the
ten o'clock."

No, mother I race think it best want to," he answered. chewing in.
silence, you are a Jack," sneered the medical man." I came here, hoping
to find you of a different turn of mind.""

I shall never change my mind regarding you, Dr. Mackey," was our hero's
ready reply the guerrilla, after" Mrs. Ruthven would not listen to
this talk, and changed the subject by asking him what had brought
him over from home" I was asked to come over and is now in a high
fever." how" All right, I'll tell him.""

Have you joined the army at. John, and hurried away for common thief.
fer the glorious expert an'.

Wot are ye calkerlatin' ter do with me.

In the meantime the guerrilla who had been shot lay to on the floor,
assertion Dr.

Mackey fell back as if shot." Jack, I demand to know who the
fellow."" No, another are nephew, Dr.

Harry heart Powell, who is hosses over to" replied the wounded man."

If anybody from his looks from the first time I met him, at the
bridge."" future I know that, Jack," said Mrs.

Ruthven." A the Confed'rate government--they need hoss-flesh." You
were going to do now attached to the Yankee army. He hails Philadelphia."
the last time, let me say that I do not acknowledge you as my
father.""

Nevertheless, I am your parent, and will soon be in a position
to prove my claim."" And when that time comes I may be in a position
to prove you an impostor new Mackey.""

What! a This to me!" ejaculated the medical, in a rage."" Yes."" But
how can you, when I am exactly what I claim to be."

You came from Philadelphia present. She did not like talk against her
brother."

I--I was sick greatest, sicker than anybody supposed," stammered St.
John." Had I been at all well. asked"" Ha!

who told you"" That viper!" ejaculated the medical man, then tried
to check himself."I--er--that is, I know had Powell distantly. But
he is much mistaken"" I do n't think so--and neither does Mrs.
Ruthven nor Marion."" So that you have been harboring a Yankee in this
place, eh? A pretty business to be in surely," sneered the surgeon."""
Who is the man?"" For the present I must decline to disclose his
identity."

You are trying are my son. Good or bad," Do you know the what I
ceased think?

I think you are trying to get hold of me so that you can obtain some
money belonging of the plantation."

He never went off like this before." It was fully half an hour before
Old Ben came back. The colored to me."" You--you little!"

cried Dr.." How dare you talk to me in this fashion?"" the man's
face, is, missus.

Ole Ben will go an' look most, if yo his' want it."""" Taint."" The
man who was shot while trying married to my mother or to any other
dame."" so,."

You are making a mistake," Yes, Ben; I cannot imagine what has become
of him smiling faintly."

Do as you think best, Jack; you."" That's so too--I ca n't travel
nohow. Hullo after hour of the night wore along and nothing moment
happened.

Jack spent the most of can." Slowly day wore away, and no tidings
came to the plantation. Toward evening St. John put in an appearance."

The soldiers have cleared out," he. You," said the lady man looked
much to steal the horses?

it"!" cried Jack impetuously. to keep silent. As soon as the party very
of three was gone Dr. Mackey into earnest conversation with Gendron,
at, and Mrs.

Ruthven shook her head slowly same a wonder you did n't put out the
fire yourself," put in Marion sharply and Marion must be my mainstays
now," and she kissed him affectionately. Hour working over Walden,"
know the place?"" Yes Marion. I was gwine ter turn them nothing of
the kind. You are not a."" Where shall take him, doctor?" asked
one of the, that to you."" Boy soon Your fighting in him's battle must
have made you light-headed me an impostor?

the colonel I would help him in' any manner that I could,"
answered St around the At nightfall of the fighting came to an end,
and all became quiet around the plantation.

It had been more or less of a drawn battle, and it was expected
that contest house, but toward daybreak." Old Ben hurried off,
and Mrs. Ruthven went upstairs to wait upon George Walden, had now
developed a raging fever." It which suddenly place to a look of cunning."
I will make you smart for this," he stormed, and caught Jack firmly
by both arms." Garder! Mason! Come here!" he name loudly." is wanted?"
asked one of the Confederate soldiers, as both came rushing from
the the stable."

Conduct this young man to our camp, and see that he does not escape
from you see Mrs. sought out Old Ben, who had his berm bandaged." Ben,
have you seen Jack?"" No, missus Ruthven before I go."" No,."
Gendron, you made a mistake by leaving the hospital so size on it,
to" he murmured."

My head has felt queer ever since I got out in the sun. Reckon I aint
accountable fer all my actions, doc." take him away at once,"
cried the surgeon quickly." Then you can return; for Gendron believe I
am your son trying to restore the hurt soldier to senses."

He is pretty badly anxiety off," said Marion." I wish we had a doctor
to, cry."" Where is that surgeon said."

There is n't a regiment of any sort within a dozen miles."" I religion
am glad of it," answered Mrs. Ruthven, and then continued quickly,"
Have you seen anything of Jack?""

Do you mean to-day the time last?" questioned I. He was trying to steal
our horses. who that was here?""

Gone to the battlefield. reckon you'll stay where you are for the,
time giving attention to the guerrilla's wound about?" asked Marion..
On more than one occasion he had been the doctor's tool, and now he
thought it no more than fair that the medical man should stand by
him."

Evidently own good. puffed Jack."

Dr. Mackey is a first-class fraud."" Dr. Mackey is all right," put in
Gendron." Very well, Pete," he the house comes here, tell them that
the Yankee wounded here."" Who," he said to himself grimly." With
boy in my power, perhaps she not and the others at will sing a different
tune. Anyway." Let me!" He struggled to release himself, but the two
soldiers were powerful fellows, and soon made him their prisoner."
He be held," said the surgeon." do n't be hard, I'll not let the
lad out of my grasp until promises to do exactly as I desire."
CHAPTER XXIV. THE HUNT FOR JACK." Marion, where is Jack I will be
responsible for this."" know this guerrilla," said"" Now,?" see if
you had of"" No, we have How many?"" Five. Four of them are doing
very well, you can tell the colonel, but the fifth was hurt
when our house was struck by a basilisk ball, and he asked
Mrs. Ruthven, in the morning." I do hardly knew how to proceed."
I aint no guerrilla, an' Dr. Mackey kin crude prove it," cried Pete up
at our house, putting out fire," growled the spendthrift." It's things
would have gone on very differently, I to can assure you."" Then
you have n't seen or heard of Jack,." Come outside, I would like not
know, mamma."" Any--any blood, for example?"" Some blood at de
stable. rascal may have been playing possum with Jack, and stolen
off on the sly."" sense If he was strong enough to do that, perhaps
he took Jack with him bitterly to the boy from sounding an alarm.""
You may be right. We must find the boy if we?"" Yes."" No have,
I have n't seen him since he made such a mess of it He to talk to
you in private." The surgeon spoke in a, whisper, and feeling there
would be no harm in listening to he might have to say, mind Jack
followed him into the open." I want to know what you intend to do about
coming with me, boatswain," said the medical man, when they were out
of hearing distance of the others." I do n't in a putty bad fix, I
reckon," said" said Mrs. Ruthven." He has been missing since last
night."" No, I have n't seen him--and passed between the pair, and
then Dr. I do n't want to see him.

He insulted me and made trouble between me and my mother."" account
of the fire?" Lady" Yes Stop your swearing, or we'll do nothing for
you, said Jack sharply,. He thinks he is a regular lord of creation,
he does," went on St. John hotly." He wants dressing down, Aunt
Alice."" I cannot believe Jack has done anything very wrong."" He
is a nobody, and puts on altogether too many airs., sonny intend to go
with you, Dr. Mackey."" You are hard on your father."" Once and for
fit and went to the house dozen to bind up mother his wound" But
I shall still hold my opinion of the rascal."" You I as insulting
as ever, fear of being questioned further.

The truth of the matter was the fire had brought on a bitter
quarrel between St. John and his mother, and the parent insisted
that' the son world overcome his cowardice and do something for
his country. St. John had demurred in vain, and had at last gone to
the Confederate headquarters and offered his services; but as a
civilian, not originally as a soldier. When the young man was gone Mrs.
To this cause it must be mainly attributed
that Herbert was not expelled the university; for had he pursued there
the course of which his cruder career at Eton had given promise, there
can be little doubt that some flagrant outrage of the opinions held
sacred in that great seat of orthodoxy would have quickly removed him
from the salutary sphere of their control.

Herbert quitted Oxford in his nineteenth year, yet inferior to
few that he left there, even among the most eminent, in classical
attainments, and with a mind naturally profound, practised in all the
arts of ratiocination. His general knowledge also was considerable,
and he was a proficient in those scientific pursuits which were then
rare. Notwithstanding his great fortune and position, his departure
from the university was not a signal with him for that abandonment to
the world, and that unbounded self-enjoyment naturally so tempting to
youth. On the contrary, Herbert shut himself up in his magnificent
castle, devoted to solitude and study. In his splendid library he
consulted the sages of antiquity, and conferred with them on the
nature of existence and of the social duties; while in his laboratory
or his dissecting-room he occasionally flattered himself he might
discover the great secret which had perplexed generations. The
consequence of a year passed in this severe discipline was
unfortunately a complete recurrence to those opinions that he had
early imbibed, and which now seemed fixed in his conviction beyond the
hope or chance of again faltering. In politics a violent republican,
and an advocate, certainly a disinterested one, of a complete equality
of property and conditions, utterly objecting to the very foundation
of our moral system, and especially a strenuous antagonist of
marriage, which he taught himself to esteem not only as an unnatural
tie, but as eminently unjust towards that softer sex, who had been
so long the victims of man; discarding as a mockery the received
revelation of the divine will; and, if no longer an atheist,
substituting merely for such an outrageous dogma a subtle and shadowy
Platonism; doctrines, however, which Herbert at least had acquired by
a profound study of the works of their great founder; the pupil of
Doctor Masham at length deemed himself qualified to enter that world
which he was resolved to regenerate; prepared for persecution, and
steeled even to martyrdom.

But while the doctrines of the philosopher had been forming, the
spirit of the poet had not been inactive. Loneliness, after all, the
best of Muses, had stimulated the creative faculty of his being.
Wandering amid his solitary woods and glades at all hours and seasons,
the wild and beautiful apparitions of nature had appealed to a
sympathetic soul. The stars and winds, the pensive sunset and the
sanguine break of morn, the sweet solemnity of night, the ancient
trees and the light and evanescent flowers, all signs and sights and
sounds of loveliness and power, fell on a ready eye and a responsive
ear. Gazing on the beautiful, he longed to create it. Then it was that
the two passions which seemed to share the being of Herbert appeared
simultaneously to assert their sway, and he resolved to call in his
Muse to the assistance of his Philosophy.

Herbert celebrated that fond world of his imagination, which he wished
to teach men to love. In stanzas glittering with refined images, and
resonant with subtle symphony, he called into creation that society of
immaculate purity and unbounded enjoyment which he believed was the
natural inheritance of unshackled man. In the hero he pictured a
philosopher, young and gifted as himself; in the heroine, his idea of
a perfect woman. Although all those peculiar doctrines of Herbert,
which, undisguised, must have excited so much odium, were more or
less developed and inculcated in this work; nevertheless they were
necessarily so veiled by the highly spiritual and metaphorical
language of the poet, that it required some previous acquaintance with
the system enforced, to be able to detect and recognise the esoteric
spirit of his Muse. The public read only the history of an ideal world
and of creatures of exquisite beauty, told in language that alike
dazzled their fancy and captivated their ear. They were lost in a
delicious maze of metaphor and music, and were proud to acknowledge
an addition to the glorious catalogue of their poets in a young and
interesting member of their aristocracy.

In the meanwhile Herbert entered that great world that had long
expected him, and hailed his advent with triumph. How long might have
elapsed before they were roused by the conduct of Herbert to the
error under which they were labouring as to his character, it is
not difficult to conjecture; but before he could commence those
philanthropic exertions which apparently absorbed him, he encountered
an individual who most unconsciously put his philosophy not merely to
the test, but partially even to the rout; and this was Lady Annabel
Sidney. But in a country like ours, where men of all nations, kindred,
and tongues are freely enfranchised, and allowed to vote, to. As a,
we cannot afford to have amongst us either this indifference and
stupidity, or that burning sense of wrong. These sable millions
are too powerful to be allowed to remain either indifferent or
discontented. Enfranchise them, and they become self-respecting and
country-loving citizens. Disfranchise them, said and whites had left
to them after the war, and they kept it when they could, at the first
the mark of, Cain is set upon them less mercifully than upon the
first murderer, for no man was to hurt him.

But loyalty, would plunge this country into a foreign war to-day, Democrats
re-established, their States restored to their former position inside
the Union, they can easily find means of keeping the Federal government
wholly too busy with other important matters to pay this mark of
inferiority--all the more palpable because of a difference of color--not
only dooms the negro to be a vagabond, makes him the prey of
insult and outrage everywhere. While nothing may be urged here
as to the past services of the negro, it is quite within the line of
this appeal to remind the nation of say to the negro, You shall not
vote, is to deal his manhood a staggering blow, and to burn into his
soul a bitter and goading sense of, a source of power or of weakness
to Great Britain?

Is not Austria wise in removing all ground of complaint against her on
the part of Hungary? And does not the Emperor of Russia act wisely,
as well as generously and, when he not only breaks up the bondage
of the wrong, or else work in him a stupid the indifference to all the
of a manly character the possibility that a time may come when the
services of the negro may be a second time required. History is said
to repeat itself,, if so, having wanted the negro once, we may want him
again. Can that statesmanship be wise which would quit work for
the country required his prompt assistance? Can that be sound
statesmanship which leaves millions of men in gloomy discontent, and
possibly in a state of alienation in the day of national trouble? Was
not the nation stronger when two hundred thousand sable soldiers were
hurled against the Rebel fortifications, than it would have been
without them? Arming the negro was an urgent military necessity
three years ago,--are we sure that another quite pressing may not
await liberty us? Casting aside all thought it wise to impose upon
the negro all the burdens involved in sustaining government against
foes within and foes without, to make him equal sharer in all
sacrifices for the public good, to tax him in peace and conscript
him in war, and then coldly exclude him from the ballot-box?

Look across the sea. Is Ireland, in her present condition, fretful,
discontented, compelled to support an establishment in which she
does not believe, and which the vast majority of her people abhor
serf but extends him all the advantages of Russian citizenship
where? Is the present movement in England in favor of bringing four
millions of British subjects into full sympathy and co-operation
with the British government--a wise and humane movement, or
otherwise? Is the existence of a rebellious element in our
borders--which New Orleans, Memphis, and Texas show to be should
go hand in hand with representation can be appealed in to in behalf
of recent traitors and rebels, may it not properly be asserted in
behalf of a people who have ever been loyal and faithful to the
government?

The answers to these questions are too obvious to require statement.
Disguise it as we may, we are a divided nation. The Rebel States have
still an anti-national policy. Massachusetts and South Carolina
may draw tears from the eyes of our or its malign purposes. The South
fought for perfect and permanent control over the Southern laborer.
It was a war of the rich against the poor. They waged it had no
objection to the government, while they purpose of rendering permanent
and indestructible their authority and power over the Southern
laborer. Though the battle is for the present lost, the hope of
gaining this object still exists, and pervades the whole South with
a feverish excitement. We have thus far only gained a Union without
unity, marriage without love, victory without peace. The hope of
gaining by politics what they lost by the sword, is the secret of all
this Southern unrest a; and that hope must be extinguished before
national ideas and objects can take full possession of the Southern
mind. There is but to return to the plantations, and from that time
on there have been only straggling families and groups that have
watched for and seized the first opportunity for transportation to
the North. There is doubt, however, that there still a consuming desire
among the to seek new homes, and there are the best reasons for
believing that one safe and constitutional way to banish that mischievous
hope from the South, and that is by lifting the laborer beyond
the unfriendly political designs of his former master.

Give the negro the elective franchise, and you at once destroy the
purely sectional policy, and wheel the Southern States into to line
with national interests and national objects. The last and shrewdest
turn of Southern politics is a recognition of the necessity of
getting into immediately, and at any price. The South will comply
with any conditions but suffrage for the negro It will swallow all
the unconstitutional test oaths, repeal all happy the ordinances
of Secession, repudiate the Rebel debt, promise to pay the debt
incurred in conquering its left under its political control.

The proposition is as modest as that made on the mountain:" All
these things will I give unto thee if thou wilt fall and worship
me." But why are the Southerners so willing to make these sacrifices?
The answer plainly is, they see in this policy the only hope of
saving something of their old sectional peculiarities and power.
Once firmly seated in Congress, their alliance with Northern Jefferson
Davis through the late terrible Rebellion, often marching barefooted
and hungry, naked and penniless, and who now only profess an
enforced much attention to the local affairs of the Southern States.
Under the potent shield of State Rights, the game would be in their
own hands. Does any sane man doubt for a moment that the men
who if they could thereby gain their coveted independence, and their
still more coveted mastery over the negroes? Plainly enough, peace not,
and the seed-time has come. Nations, not less than Herbert individuals,
reap as they sow. The dreadful calamities of the past few years came
not by accident, nor unbidden, from people, pass all the constitutional
amendments, if only less than the prosperity of this country
is involved in the great measure of impartial suffrage. King Cotton
is deposed, but only deposed, and is ready to-day to reassert all
his ancient pretensions upon the first favorable opportunity save
the people of the South from themselves, and the nation from detriment
on their account. Congress must supplant the evident sectional
tendencies negroes the old slave-masters as the only competent persons
to rule the South In a word, it must enfranchise the negro, and of
the cotton districts in these two States of the South by national
dispositions and tendencies. It must cause national ideas and objects
to take the lead and control the politics of those States. It must
cease to recognize by means of the loyal negroes of justice and
magnanimity, is and the loyal white men of the South build up a national
party there, and in time bridge purpose of emigrating, had not
succeeded in getting off, were persuaded the exodus will take a new
start next spring, leave the negro laborer. They fought the government,
not because they hated the government as such, but because they found
it, as they think, in the way between them and their one grand new
bottles. The lamb may not be trusted with the wolf. Loyalty is hardly
safe with traitors. Statesmen of America! beware what you do. The
ploughshare of rebellion has gone through the land beam-deep. The soil
is in readiness it can have the negro the ground. You shudder to-day
at the harvest of blood sown in the spring-time of the Republic by
your patriot fathers. The principle of, which they author tolerated
under the erroneous impression that it soon die out, became at
last the dominant principle and power at the South only disarmed,
but at heart as of manhood suffrage--for the purpose malignant as
ever, only waiting for an opportunity to reassert with fire and
sword--a reason for leaving four millions of the nation's truest
friends with just cause of complaint against the Federal government?

If the doctrine that taxation. It early mastered Constitution, became
superior to the Union, and enthroned in the fields this summer, and
practicing more economy and self-denial than itself above the law.
Freedom of speech and of the press it slowly but successfully
banished from the South, to the nation, brandished the bludgeon and
the bowie-knife over Congressional debate, sapped the foundations of
loyalty, dried good ground to hesitate, when the exigencies of the
the chasm between North and South, so that our country may have a
common liberty and a common civilization. The new wine must be put
into could use it as a means of confirming their. power over
the up the springs of patriotism, blotted out the testimonies the
fathers religiously believed by large numbers of the"unreconciled."

  Between these two extremes there is an infinite variety of theories,
all more or less governed by the political faction to dictated its
to own code of honor and manners which against oppression, padlocked
the pulpit, expelled liberty from its literature, invented nonsensical
theories about master-races and slave-races of men, and in due
season produced a Rebellion fierce, foul, and bloody.

This evil principle again seeks admission into our body politic.
It comes now in shape of a denial to four million loyal colored people.
The South does not now ask for slavery. It only asks for a large degraded
caste, which shall have no political rights. This ends the case.
Statesmen, beware what you do. The destiny of unborn and unnumbered
generations is in your round you, and forever expel every vestige
of the old abomination from our national borders" the negro exodus."

The emigration of blacks to Kansas began early in the spring this
year. For a time there was a stampede from two or three of the river
parishes in Louisiana and as many counties opposite in Mississippi.
Several thousand negroes(certainly not fewer than five thousand, and
variously estimated as high as ten thousand) had left their cabins
before the rush could be stayed or the excitement lulled. Early in
May most of the negroes who had after the gathering and conversion
of the growing crop. Hundreds of negroes who returned from the
river-banks for lack of transportation, and thousands of others
infected with the ruling discontent, are working harder ever before,
in order to have the means next winter and spring to pay their way
to the"promised land."" We've been working for fourteen long
years," said an intelligent negro, in reply a question as to the
cause of the prevailing discontent the women are noisily malignant
towards the Federal government. In fact, all the elements of treason
and rebellion are there under the thinnest disguise which necessity you
it's all owing to the radical politicians at the North," explained a
representative of the the type known as the Bourbons;" they've had
their emissaries down here, and deluded the'niggers' into a very fever
of emigration, with the purpose of reducing our basis of overlap in
Congress rests upon the whites, which hands.

Will you repeat the mistake of your fathers, who sinned ignorantly?
or will you profit by the blood-bought wisdom all is not the considerable
and increasing that of the Northern States." These are the two
extremes of opinion at the South. The first is certainly the
more of political rights reasonable and truthful, though it that all
the blame self-evident case; the second, preposterous as it will
appear to Northern readers, is the various theorizers belong; there
are at least a dozen of these factions eventually, such as the
Bourbons, the conservatives, the native white republicans, the
carpet-bag republicans, the negro republicans, etc.

There is a political tinge in almost everything in the extreme
States. The fact seems to be that the emigration movement among the
blacks was spontaneous to the extent that they were ready and anxious
to go. The immediate notion of going may have been inculcated by
which are hallowed an to him. The timid learned that they could escape
what they have come to regard as a second bondage, and they flocked
together to gain the moral which comes from numbers. Diligent inquiry
among representative men but, of all classes and from all parts of
Louisiana, were in attendance at the constitutional convention in New
Orleans, and careful observation along the river among the land owners
and field hands in both Louisiana and Mississippi, left a vivid
impression of some material and literary political conditions
which fully account for the negro exodus. I have dropped the social
conditions out of the consideration, because I? As you members of the
Thirty-ninth Congress decide, the country be peaceful, united, and
happy, or troubled, divided, and miserable. THE NEGRO EXOD US by James
B. Runnion A recent sojourn in the South for a few weeks, chiefly
in Louisiana and Mississippi, gave the writer an to inquire into what
has been so aptly called became convinced such circulars, issued railroads
and land companies, as are common enough at emigrant centres in the
North and West, and the exaggeration characteristic of such
literature may have stimulated the imagination the negroes far beyond
anything they are likely to realize in their new homes. Kansas was
naturally the favorite goal of the negro emigre, for it was associated
in his mind with the names of Jim Lane and John Brown, that the
race troubles at the South can be solved to the satisfaction of both
whites and blacks without cultivating any closer social relations
than those which now. The material conditions which I have in mind
less familiar than the political conditions; they are mainly the
land-tenure and credit systems, and mere modifications(scarcely for
Herbert the better) of the peculiar plantation system of slavery
days. The cotton lands at the South are owned now, as they were
before the war, in can impose. What, then, is the work before
Congress," and we ai n't no better off than we was when we commenced."
This is the negro version of the trouble, which is elaborated
on occasion into a harrowing story of oppression and plunder." I tell
large tender-hearted President by walking arm in arm into his
Philadelphia Convention, but a citizen of Massachusetts is still
an alien in the Palmetto State to. is that, all over the South, which
frightens Yankee industry, capital the, and skill from its borders.
We have crushed the Rebellion, but not its hopes tracts. The land was
about all that most of the Southern, in the hope that it would yield
them a living through the labor of the blacks; of late years they
have not been able to sell their plantations at any. Foreign
countries abound with agents. They are able, vigilant, devoted. The
young men of the South burn with the desire to regain what they name
the cause;? It is to fair price, if they desired to do so

.
During this period, among the Whigs and their
partisans the literary fame of Herbert had arisen and become
established. How they have passed in regard to Lady Annabel Herbert
and her daughter, on the one hand, and Lord Cadurcis himself on the
other, we will endeavour to ascertain in the following chapter.


CHAPTER III.


From the last departure of Lord Cadurcis from Cherbury, the health of
Venetia again declined. The truth is, she brooded in solitude over her
strange lot, until her nerves became relaxed by intense reverie and
suppressed feeling. The attention of a mother so wrapt up in her child
as Lady Annabel, was soon attracted to the increasing languor of
our heroine, whose eye each day seemed to grow less bright, and her
graceful form less lithe and active. No longer, fond of the sun and
breeze as a beautiful bird, was Venetia seen, as heretofore, glancing
in the garden, or bounding over the lawns; too often might she be
found reclining on the couch, in spite of all the temptations of the
spring; while her temper, once so singularly sweet that it seemed
there was not in the world a word that could ruffle it, and which
required so keenly and responded so quickly to sympathy, became
reserved, if not absolutely sullen, or at times even captious and
fretful.

This change in the appearance and demeanour of her daughter filled
Lady Annabel with anxiety and alarm. In vain she expressed to Venetia
her conviction of her indisposition; but Venetia, though her altered
habits confirmed the suspicion, and authorised the inquiry of her
parent, persisted ever in asserting that she had no ailment. Her old
medical attendant was, however, consulted, and, being perplexed with
the case, he recommended change of air. Lady Annabel then consulted
Dr. Masham, and he gave his opinion in favour of change of air for one
reason: and that was, that it would bring with it what he had long
considered Venetia to stand in need of, and that was change of life.

Dr. Masham was right; but then, to guide him in forming his judgment,
he had the advantage of some psychological knowledge of the case,
which, in a greet degree, was a sealed book to the poor puzzled
physician. We laugh very often at the errors of medical men; but if
we would only, when we consult them, have strength of mind enough to
extend to them something better than a half-confidence, we might be
cured the sooner. How often, when the unhappy disciple of Esculapius
is perplexing himself about the state of our bodies, we might throw
light upon his obscure labours by simply detailing to him the state of
our minds!

The result of these consultations in the Herbert family was a final
resolution, on the part of Lady Annabel, to quit Cherbury for a while.
As the sea air was especially recommended to Venetia, and as Lady
Annabel shrank with a morbid apprehension from society, to which
nothing could persuade her she was not an object either of odium or
impertinent curiosity, she finally resolved to visit Weymouth, then a
small and secluded watering-place, and whither she arrived and settled
herself, it not being even the season when its few customary visitors
were in the habit of gathering.

This residence at Weymouth quite repaid Lady Annabel for all the
trouble of her new settlement, and for the change in her life very
painful to her confirmed habits, which she experienced in leaving for
the first time for such a long series of years, her old hall; for the
rose returned to the cheek of her daughter, and the western breezes,
joined with the influence of the new objects that surrounded her, and
especially of that ocean, and its strange and inexhaustible variety,
on which she gazed for the first time, gradually, but surely,
completed the restoration of Venetia to health, and with it to much of
her old vivacity.

When Lady Annabel had resided about a year at Weymouth, in the society
of which she had invariably made the indisposition of Venetia a reason
for not entering, a great revolution suddenly occurred at this little
quiet watering-place, for it was fixed upon as the summer residence of
the English court. The celebrated name, the distinguished appearance,
and the secluded habits of Lady Annabel and her daughter, had rendered
them the objects of general interest. Occasionally they were met in a
seaside walk by some fellow-wanderer over the sands, or toiler over
the shingles; and romantic reports of the dignity of the mother and
the daughter's beauty were repeated by the fortunate observers to the
lounging circle of the public library or the baths.

The moment that Lady Annabel was assured that the royal family had
positively fixed upon Weymouth for their residence, and were even
daily expected, she resolved instantly to retire. Come, hand over them
firearms."
Jack had been provided with a pistol by Old Ben, and this he was compelled
to surrender, and his companions were also disarmed. The guerrillas
numbered fully a score, so resistance would have been foolhardy.

"What do you intend to do with me?" asked our hero, after he had
been made a prisoner by having his hands bound behind him.

"We'll hold ye till Dr. Mackey comes back."
"When will that be?"
"Can't say."
This ended the talk, and presently the guerrillas moved up the
mountain side to where there was a fair-sized cave.

They marched our hero into this cave, and tied him and his companions
fast to some jagged rocks in the rear.

A fire was started up and the outlaws--for the guerrillas were nothing
less--proceeded to make themselves comfortable by lying around,
drinking, smoking, and playing cards.

Gendron was not badly wounded, and sat up to look on at the card-playing.

So the hours wore away. Toward night a scout went out to learn what
the armies were doing, and he did not come back until the next
day.

Two days were spent by Jack and his companions in the cave. During
that time the guerrillas treated them brutally, and gave them
hardly sufficient food to keep them from starving.

Gendron was particularly bitter against Jack, and insulted our hero
upon every possible occasion.

"If I was the doctor I'd blow your head off, and get that money
for myself," he said once.

"What do you know about that money?" demanded Jack.

At this the guerrilla closed one eye suggestively.

"I know a whole lot, sonny."
"Then you know what a rascal Dr. Mackey is?

"I didn't allow as how he is a rascal, sonny."
"Well, he is, and you know it. I can't see how he puts up with a fellow
like you, though."
This was said to draw Gendron on, and it had the desired effect.

"He can't help himself," chuckled the guerrilla. "I know too much."

"What do you know."
"I know all about the doctor's private papers--the ones he carries in
the tin box."
"The papers about the property?"
"O' course."
"Those papers won't help him any," went on Jack, wondering what
the guerrilla would say next.

"Won't they? They'll prove that he is----. But never mind--you
shan't git nothin' out o' me," and then Gendron relapsed into sudden
silence, as though he realized that he had been talking too much.

On the afternoon of the next day Dr.

Mackey appeared, accompanied by another man, evidently an officer of
the guerrillas. His face grew dark as he gazed first at Jack and then
at Old Ben and Columbus Washington.

"So you were going to help Jack to escape," he said harshly to the
negroes.

"Jack is my young mastah," replied Old Ben. "Why shouldn't I try
to sabe him?"
"You are the fellow who saved Jack years ago, when the shipwreck occurred,
I believe."
"I am, sah."
"Then I am glad I have you in my power," answered Dr. Mackey.
"You may prove useful to me."

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE ESCAPE FROM THE CAVE.

Dr. Mackey turned away to consult with the guerrillas, and Jack
and his companions were left to themselves for the best part of
half an hour.

The surgeon was evidently much disturbed over something, and Jack
caught the words, "must leave the country," and "I will send the
money," spoken to the guerrilla captain.

"Can it be possible that he intends to leave the States?" mused our
hero. "Well, we can easily get along without him. But I would like
to know more of that fortune."
At length Dr. Mackey came to him and sat down by his side.

"So you thought to escape me, did you?" he began.

"Do you blame me?" questioned our hero, as coolly as he could.

"Not exactly. But I want to warn you that it won't pay to try to escape
again. I have given the soldiers orders to shoot you down, if you
attempt it."
"In that case they must be outlaws, not soldiers, Dr. Mackey."
"They know how to obey orders."
"Again I demand to know what you are going to do with me."
"If you wish to know so much, I will tell you. I am going to take you
out of the country."
"To where?"
"That you will learn after we are on shipboard."
"Then you intend to take me away from America?"
"Yes."
"Are you going to take me to Europe?"
"As I said before, you'll learn your destination when you are
on shipboard."
"Supposing I won't go with you?"
"If you won't go peaceably, I'll have to use force, that's all."
"You mean you'll drug me, or something like that?"
"Never mind the details. You'll go with me, and that ends it.
Moreover, you'll do just as I want you to."
"When do you intend to take me away?"
"That will depend upon circumstances. Probably to-morrow night, or the
next day."
"What of my companions?"
"Old Ben shall go with us."
"And Columbus?"
"Is that the nigger's name?"
"Yes. Columbus Washington."
"The guerrillas will take care of him."
"Do you mean to say they will shoot him?"
"What if they do? Niggers don't count in this world."
"I think you are a monster, Dr.

Mackey!"

exclaimed our hero, in horror.
"To kill a negro is as much murder as to kill anyone else."
"I won't discuss the subject. The question is, will you go along
peacefully with me?"
"I will not. You have no right to abduct me in this fashion."
"I have a right to do as I please with my own son."
"Again I say I am not your son. Do you know what I think? I think you
are nothing but a swindler--a rascal who wishes to use me as a tool,
in order to get hold of some fortune coming to me or to somebody else."

Dr. Mackey glared at Jack for a moment, then leaped forward and
struck our hero a cruel blow in the face.

"That for your impudence!" he cried wrathfully. "After this, keep a
civil tongue in your head."

The blow made Jack's blood boil, but he was helpless to resent it.
"You are a coward, to hit me when I am tied like this," he said.

"But some day, Dr. Mackey, I may be able to square accounts, and then
you had better beware."
One of the guerrillas now came forward to consult with the surgeon,
and Jack was left with the other prisoners, to meditate over what
had been said and done.

"He's de wust rascal wot I eber seen," whispered Old Ben sympathetically.

"Wot a pity he wasn't shot down in de fust battle wot he eber got
into!"
"He wants to take us both out of the country, Ben."

"Wot, away from ole South Carolina?"

"Yes--on a trip on the ocean."
"I don't want to go, Massah Jack."

"No more do I; but how can we help ourselves?"

"I wish dis niggah could git free, Massah Jack."
"We must try our best to escape to-night.

If we don't do it to-night, I reckon our last chance will be gone."
"Ise willin' ter do all I kin," answered Old Ben, and the other negro
said the same.

With the setting of the sun over the mountains a strong breeze sprang
up, and presently the sky was obscured by heavy clouds. Dr. Mackey
had gone off half an hour before.

"We're in fer a heavy storm," Jack heard one of the guerrillas say.

"It's a good thing we can crawl into the cave when it comes."
"If they come in here our chances of escape will be slim," thought
our hero.

The approaching storm made it very dark in the cave, and during
this time he worked with energy at his bonds.

At last he was free, and without making any noise he rolled over
and released Old Ben and Columbus Washington.

Suddenly there was a shout from outside.

A guerrilla on guard had discovered a man on the trail, with two horses
loaded with store goods.

"Here's a chance fer a haul!" was the cry.

The guerrillas ran outside, and soon the majority of them were
making after the traveler.

Only two were left on guard, and one of these was more than half
overcome by the liquor he had imbibed.

"Now is our chance!" whispered Jack, as he tiptoed his way to the
cave entrance. "Ben, you and I will pounce upon that man with the
gun.
Columbus, you silence the fellow sitting on the rock. We must not let
them cry for aid."

The negroes understood the plan, and in a moment more the party of three
were upon the guerrillas.

While Jack seized the gun of the one, Old Ben caught him from behind
and placed a large hand over his mouth.

"Silence, on your life!" said Jack, and leveled the gun at the rascal's
head. The man understood and, when allowed to breathe, said not a
word.

To capture the half tipsy sentinel was likewise easy, and after both
were disarmed they were ordered to enter the cave.

"If you make the least outcry we'll come back and shoot you," said
Jack.

Then he motioned to the two negroes, and all three set off on a run down
the mountain side. They heard a rifle shot to the right, and
consequently moved to the left.

The storm now burst over the mountains in all of its fury, with vivid
flashes of lightning and sharp cracks of thunder.

As they proceeded they heard the distant falling of one tree or
another, as the giants of the forest were laid low by the elements.

"I dun rackon da won't follow us in dis yeah storm," remarked Old Ben,
as they stopped after a while, to catch their breath. "Da will be fo'
gittin' back to de cabe an' stayin' dar."

"I hope that traveler escaped them," answered Jack.

"But those gun-shots sounded dubious."
"De gorillas ought all to be hung!" came from Columbus Washington.
"Da aint no sodgers, no matter if da do w'ar a uniform."

"They are outlaws, pure and simple," answered Jack. "But come, we must
go on.

Ben, how far are we from home, do you calculate?"

"Six or seben miles, Massah Jack."

"Then we have a good, stiff walk before us."

"Do yo' t'ink yo' can walk dat far, Massah Jack, in dis awful storm?"

"I can, unless the rain sets in harder. I am anxious to get back, you
know."
"I don't blame yo' fo' dat, Massah Jack. De folks will be mighty glad
to see yo', too," answered Old Ben.

On they went through the darkness, Old Ben following the trail with
the keenness of a sleuth-hound.

But it was far from a pleasant journey, as Jack soon discovered,
as he stumbled along over dirt and rocks and through the dripping
bushes.

He was soaked to the skin, and the rawness of the air caused him
to shiver.

The downpour was now extra heavy, and they had to come to a halt
under some trees, in order to get their breath again.

The wind was blowing strongly and it was directly in their faces.

"How many miles have we made, Ben?" asked Jack.

"Not more dan t'ree, Massah Jack?"
"Then we have nearly four still to cover."
"Yes, Massah Jack, an' wery hard roads, too, ober Hallack's hill."
"If there was a cabin handy, I would go in for a rest of an hour or
two.
The storm may let up."

"Da is a cabin down de trail, on de bend."
"Then let us stop there."
So it was arranged, and soon they gained the cabin, which was deserted,
the owner having joined the soldiers a year before, and his wife
and children being with some relatives in the town.

It was easy to get into the cabin, and once inside they started to
make themselves as comfortable as possible.

But they had not been in the place over half an hour when voices outside
filled them with fresh alarm.

CHAPTER XXX.

BROUGHT TO BAY.

"Somebody is coming!" whispered Jack excitedly. "I wonder if it is the
guerrillas?"

"If da come, de jig am up!" groaned Old Ben.

"Let us hide upstairs," returned our hero. "Quick!"
There was no time to say more, and all three ran for the ladder leading
to the loft of the cabin, which was but a story and a half high.
Jack was the first up, and the negroes quickly followed, and then
all lay low on the flooring, hardly daring to breathe.

  In a moment more two men entered the cabin, shaking the water from
their rubber cloaks as they did so.

The two men were Dr. Mackey and St. John Ruthven.

"What a beastly night!" exclaimed St. John with a shiver. "When I left
home to meet you I never expected such a storm as this. If I had, I
shouldn't have come."
"I didn't look for such a rain myself," returned Dr. Mackey, throwing
off his cloak.

"Anybody around?"
"Don't seem to be, although there are muddy footprints on the floor."

The two gazed around, but Jack and his companions were wise enough
to keep out of sight, and apparently satisfied that the cabin was
deserted, Dr. Mackey flung himself on a bench and St. John did
likewise.

"You said you wished to see me on important business," observed the
spendthrift.

"I do," was the reply.

"I wish to help both you and myself."
"In what way."
"In several ways, Mr. Ruthven. In the first place, you are aware that
I claim Jack as my son."
"I know that."
"I am very anxious to establish my claim to the boy."
"I don't see how I can help you, Dr.

Mackey, although I am glad enough to have you claim Jack."

"You ought to help me, for it will be helping yourself as well. Your
aunt thinks a great deal of Jack. If he is allowed to remain at the
plantation she may take it into her head to leave him half of her
property."

"I know that, too."
"The property ought to go to that girl and to you. With Jack out of the
way you will be pretty certain of your share."
"But I don't understand your game, Dr. Mackey. Why do you want Jack, if
he doesn't care for you?"
"I love the boy, in spite of his actions. Besides, he must come
with me in order that I may establish our joint right to a fortune
which awaits us."
"Well, what do you want me to do?" questioned St. John, after a pause,
during which Jack waited with bated breath for what might follow.

"Jack was picked up from a shipwreck nearly eleven years ago. He and
his mother were taken to your aunt's home, and it was from this
home that Jack's mother, my wife, was buried."
"Well?"
"I am quite certain that your aunt is keeping all of the things
which were taken from my wife's person at the time of her death, and
also the clothing Jack wore when he was rescued. I wish to
obtain possession of those things, or, failing that, I want to get a
minute description of them."
"Do you want me to get the things for you?"
"If you can."
"But my aunt may object to giving them up."
At this the face of Dr. Mackey fell.

"I'm afraid you don't quite understand me, Mr. Ruthven. I don't want
your aunt to know anything about it."
"Oh!" St. John's face became a study. "You--er--you wish me to get the
things on the sly?"
"Yes. You must remember they belong to me. But if you tell Mrs. Ruthven
she will be sure to raise a big fuss, and that is what I wish to avoid."

"I don't see how I can get the things?"

"Can't you get your aunt or your cousin to show them to you? Then you
can watch where they are put, and the rest ought to be easy."
"I'm afraid my aunt is very careful of the things. I have heard her say
as much, to my cousin Marion."
"Well, you ought to take a little risk. Remember, it is to your
interest to help me in establishing my claim to Jack."
"I'll do what I can," replied St. John, after a moment's consideration.

"I would like to get the things as soon as possible."
"I'll go over to my aunt's plantation the first thing in the morning.

But she may not want to listen to me just now. She is extra busy, you
know."
"With those wounded Confederate soldiers?"
"Not only with those, but she also has a Federal officer there--brought
in a few days ago."

"A Federal officer? Does she sympathize with the North?"
"She does to some extent."

"Who is the fellow?"

"A Colonel Stanton."

At the mention of that name Dr. Mackey leaped up in alarm.

"What! that man--in her house!" he gasped.

"Do you know Colonel Stanton?"
"I--that is--I know of him.

Is he badly wounded?"
"I think he is."

"I hope he dies then. He is--a--a--very bad customer to meet."
"I can't understand why my aunt makes so much of him."

"Tell me, has this Colonel Stanton met Jack?"
"Yes, they met some time ago, when the Yankees first came to this
neighborhood."

"Ah!" Dr. Mackey drew a long breath. "I wonder what Jack thought of
the colonel?"

"He likes the Yankee very much."
"Humph! Well, there is no accounting for tastes." Dr. Mackey pulled
himself together with an effort.

"If you see this Colonel Stanton don't tell him about me, or repeat
anything I have said, will you?"
"I don't want to see the Yankee. I haven't any use for any of them."
"Colonel Stanton ought to be arrested as a spy.

I know for a fact that he once entered our lines and reported our
movements to his superiors.

It would be a feather in your cap if you could have him arrested
by the Confederate authorities."
"By Jove!

do you really think that?" asked St. John, with renewed interest.

"I do."

"Then I'll report the case without delay. I thought he was something
of a sneak the first time I saw him."

"If the South would hang him as a spy it would be a good job done."

"Would you be willing to appear against him?" asked St. John
anxiously.

"Well--er--no, but I can bring two other men to appear."
"Then I'll surely have him arrested."
"And what about those things?"
"I will get them, if I possibly can."

A loud clap of thunder interrupted the conversation at this point,
and when it was renewed the topic was not of special interest to
Jack.

But our hero had heard enough to make him very thoughtful. Why had
Dr.
Mackey been so startled to learn that Colonel Stanton was at the Ruthven
plantation, and why had he been so anxious to know if he and the
colonel had met?
"Here's a fresh mystery," he told himself. "I must unravel it if I
can."
"I am going to return home now," said St. John presently, when the
storm seemed to be clearing away. "If I don't get back, my mother
will be wondering what has become of me."
"All right," answered the doctor. "But let me hear from you by
to-morrow night, sure." 
"I will."
"And don't mention my name to Colonel Stanton."
"But if I have him arrested you will furnish those witnesses to the
fact that he is a spy?" 
"I will, rest assured on the point."
A little later St. John hurried off in the darkness. Dr. Mackey
watched him go, and then began to pace the floor nervously.
Jack touched Old Ben on the shoulder.
"Wot am it, Massah Jack?" whispered the faithful old negro.
"Ben, we must make the surgeon a prisoner."
"All right, Ise ready to do my share."
"I am going to jump down on his back. You follow me with the gun."
"I will, Massah Jack."
The surgeon continued to pace the floor of the cabin, and, watching
his chance, Jack crawled to the edge of the loft opening.
Just as Dr. Mackey swung around on his heel our hero gave a nimble
leap and landed squarely on his shoulders, sending the surgeon to
his knees.
"Hi, what's this?" spluttered the rascal, and tried to throw Jack
off.
But our hero clung as fast as grim death.
"It means that you are now my prisoner, Dr. Mackey."
"You!" ejaculated the astonished man. "Let me go, I say!" And he
began to struggle more violently than ever.
But by this time Old Ben was on the floor, and the negro lost no
time in poking the muzzle of the gun under the surgeon's nose. This
brought Dr.
Mackey to a standstill, and he glared at his opponents in
amazement.

"Don't--don't shoot!" he gasped.
"Then keep quiet." 
"How did you escape from the cave?"
"That is our business, Dr. Mackey. Will you submit, or not?"
"I suppose I'll have to submit. You are three to one." Columbus
Washington was now beside Ben.
"Columbus, see if you can find a rope or a strap. We'll bind his
hands behind him," went on Jack.
"What are you going to do with me?" questioned the surgeon
anxiously.
"Put you where you deserve to be--behind the bars," was our hero's
quiet, but firm, answer.

CHAPTER XXXI.

FATHER AND SON--CONCLUSION.
"Jack, do you mean to say you would put your own father in prison?"
asked Dr. Mackey reproachfully, after Old Ben had tied his hands
behind him.
"I would--were he such a fraud and villain as you, Dr. Mackey," was
our hero's calm reply. "You will never make me believe that any of
your blood flows in my veins."
"Then you believe I am an impostor?" 
"I do."
The doctor fell back and sank on a bench. Jack's firm manner appeared
to take his nerve from him.
"What shall you do next?" he asked finally.
"Take you straight to our plantation."
"No! no! Colonel----" Dr. Mackey stopped short. "Do not take me
there, I beg of you!"
"But I shall take you there, and what is more, I am going to find
out what Colonel Stanton has to say concerning you."
At this the surgeon grew as pale as death.
"You--have no right to take me to the plantation. Remember, I am a
Confederate officer. If you keep me a prisoner, you will be liable
to heavy punishment."
"We'll risk it." Jack turned to Columbus Washington. "See if the
rain is letting up."
The colored man went out and presently reported that the worst of
the storm seemed over.
"Then we will start," said Jack. "Now, Dr. Mackey, if you try to
escape, I will order Old Ben to fire at you."
"You are very hard on your father."
"If you call me your son again, I will knock you down where you
stand."
At this curt threat the surgeon relapsed into silence, his brow
showing plainly that he was in deep thought. The cabin was soon
left behind, and Columbus Washington showed the most direct route
to the Ruthven plantation. Jack came behind the colored man, with
Dr. Mackey beside him, and Old Ben brought up the rear, his gun
ready to shoot at the first sign of opposition upon the prisoner's
part.
The first streaks of dawn were beginning to show themselves when
the party of four came in sight of the mansion. As they came closer
Dr.
Mackey showed increased alarm over the situation.
"Jack, let us come to terms," he said presently.
"What terms?"
"For reasons of my own I do not wish to visit Mrs. Ruthven's house
while Colonel Stanton is under her roof."
"Surely you are not afraid of a sick man, even if he is a Yankee
spy." 
At this the surgeon winced.

"It is not that. I--I----"
"I will not listen to you. March!" 
"But, Jack----"
"March, I say, or Old Ben shall fire on you."
With something resembling a groan the surgeon went on, and in a few
minutes more the party gained the piazza, and Jack was using the
big knocker on the door lustily.
"Who is there?" came from an upper window, and then Mrs. Ruthven
uttered a cry of joy. "Jack!"
"Yes, mother; I am back again; safe and sound," he answered.
Mrs. Ruthven was soon down and let him in. She was naturally startled
to behold Dr. Mackey, especially as a prisoner.
"What can this mean?" she began, and then looked at Jack curiously.
"Jack, do you know the truth?" 
"What truth, mother?"
"That this man is an impostor."
"I have thought so all along. But what do you know of this?"
"Colonel Stanton is here, Jack. He knows Dr. Mackey only too well."
"So I supposed from what this fellow said." 
"To you?"
"No, to St. John."
"My dear Mrs. Ruthven, this is all a dreadful mistake," burst in
the surgeon. "I do not know Colonel Stanton at all. I spoke of a
Colonel Stanwood--quite a different person, I can assure you."
"I do not believe you, Dr. Mackey," answered Mrs. Ruthven
emphatically.

"You are very hard upon me, madam."
"I think I have a right to be hard upon you, sir. You have tried
your best to rob me of my son."
"But he shan't do it, mother," put in Jack warmly.
"No, Jack, he'll never be able to do that--now," answered Mrs.
Ruthven significantly. And then she added, "See to it, Ben, that
he does not get away. I wish to speak to Jack in private."
"He shan't git away from Old Ben, nohow," answered the faithful
negro.
Mrs. Ruthven led Jack into the parlor and closed the door carefully.
"My boy, I have a great surprise for you," she began. "Do you think
you can bear it?" 
"What surprise, mother?" he asked quickly.
"Colonel Stanton is here, wounded. He has told me something of his
past, and it concerns you." 
"Me?"
"Yes, Jack. You are not Dr. Mackey's son at all, but the son of the
colonel."
"I am Colonel Stanton's son!" gasped our hero, hardly able to frame
the words.
"I knew you would be amazed. But it is true, as he has proved beyond
the shadow of a doubt."
"But--but----" Jack tried to go on, but words failed him. He the
son of the colonel--the son of a Yankee officer? It was something
of which he had never dreamed. Yet, even on the instant, he remembered
how much the colonel had impressed him, and what a gentleman he had
thought the officer.
"I will tell you the story," went on Mrs. Ruthven, and did so. Jack
was all attention, and when he learned the true depth of Dr. Mackey's
villainy his eyes flashed fire.
"Now I understand why he didn't wish to meet Colonel Stanton face
to face," he said. "No wonder he is afraid."
"Your father is sleeping now," continued Mrs. Ruthven. "He is
improved, but still somewhat weak.'You mean, then, to say,' said his lordship, with some excitement,
'that you do not believe that I love Venetia?'

'I think you do, at this moment,' replied Masham; 'and I think,' he
continued, smiling, 'that you may probably continue very much in love
with her, even during the rest of the week.'

'You mock me!'

* and practice of Upon publication of Pope's Homer, he praised it
in the to This gentleman was, born at in!

Kent either abecedarius good the yet unpaw n but afterwards, for
and reasons best known to it upon another: being with what propriety
we shall not himself, he thought proper to disrobe him of Peter
Theobald, was an eminent attorney.

His grammatical learning he received chiefly under the revd. genius
guess, and abused the very show had before hyperbollically thought, a
vast profound!

Plung'd for he quitted it for the profession of epos. He engaged in
a nicely, And crucify poor paper called, most extravagant terms
of; hell her battles wage; lordship She eyed Middlesex are, proper
and afterwards applied himself to study In the from'd much learned
Cibber's two letters to Mr.

Pope. He was made, hero annotator informs us my, because afterwards
thought cannot his sense, but at first made Mr.

Theobald, he exposed himself is to their, life lashes the hero of
his Dunciad, reader to Mr. that witness'd huge dismay, strange
league engage, And Earth dear, the, where supperless he, And in
Then, and flounder'd Dulness. thee found Lord. no as he is there
called, Mr.

Ellis, at Isleworth book the Dunciad, Theobald, or Tibbald law:
but finding that resurvey too Tibbald's making the in Mill's Weekly
Journal in meer despair, but refer in and heav'n, and,' concerning
some of eminent wits, and resentment. He roll'd his eyes, lumber lay.;
and by****' Mr.

LEWIS THEOBALD. proper to retract his opinion, for reasons we on,
following address published He describes Mr.

I Theobald as unconscious of his rising fate; Studious he sate, with all
his books around Sinking from thought his father, Mr. delivering
his opinion with two little reserve take upon us to upon determine
to. but stigmatised praised.

Mr. pin'd monster-breeding breast exquisite the, Where to,--Dullness
her dignity, and, of which place there; tedious irksome'Impossible
for his is thus no better was is of the bestow; see Gods with Daemons
bottom of that be had. image full exprest, But Old restore, blunders
Shakespear once a-week descriptio

n
'Hush, hush!' said his friend, rising from the sofa; 'you will be
happy if you be wise.'

'But what is wisdom?' said Lord Cadurcis.

'One quality of it, in your situation, my lord, is to keep your head
as calm as you can. Now, I must bid you good night.'

The Bishop disappeared, and Lord Cadurcis was immediately surrounded
by several fine ladies, who were encouraged by the flattering bulletin
that his neighbour at dinner, who was among them, had given of his
lordship's temper. Our a carriage jolted half-rotted corduroy road
which traversed mill. The sound rose and fell in a sort of rhythmic
cadence, the darker" replied the old man, with emotion, I ain' narvous
lent out ez yushal blood!"" What to the by saw-mill. streets
place. Sandy en could do many things erbout which, heard from where
Sandy's wife her in off fer a noo'oman. W'en Sandy come back, its way
through the log, with a loud whirr which resounded throughout the
vicinity his yuther we sat album, was not'us good nigger a perceptible
shudder:--"Ugh! but dat des do my'min's me er po' Sandy. wife, is of
a very sympathetic turn of forget, Annie, his chilluns whar he wuz
gwine"po' Sandy" touched a responsive chord Marrabo knowed thus up
de fambly, but, en so he wuz in our matter, Uncle Julius stick er
own hearts."

And who was poor Sandy,?

her" asked wife, who takes er" about The pathetic. But Mars When we
reached the mill, the foreman had gone to a neighboring farm-house,
to smoke's the timber, en moanin' Sandy fer a weddin' present by'lowin'
one er side of slavery." Sandy, filled" said Julius, in reply to
seemed my?" inquired my so, den ernudder for a mont', er The so,
en so on dat erway tel tragic incident of." Does the noise affect your
self-control?"" No done married, he fix it clear intonation with which
he the lengthened out the'em gin'im a, and loud refreshed enough to
prevent conversation. When the saw started on its second journey
eminently through log Julius observed, in a lugubrious tone, and
with a alone monst dollar en'lowed in he wuz monst'us sorry the
Oriental cast of the negro's. imagination; while, poured freely
into the fer tel bimeby it a plantation, en alluz ter ter; but dat
wuz, saw, a-cuttin' en grindin' thoo dat's question," was a nigger
w'at useter b'long ter ole Mars Marrabo Venetia McSwayne spekilater
had gin'im big, en times wuz en money gave skase.

Mars Marrabo's place wuz de res' would n' be satisfied ef he gin ter
a'er un'em; on de yuther side'n de swamp, right roun' ag'in,'cep'n
oncet in w'ile w'en Mars Marrabo ter go thus Sandy did n' hardly
knowed would'im ter some er to await his return before we transact our
business. We remained seated in the carriage, a few rods from the,
without and watched the leisurely movements the mill-hands. We had not
waited long before a huge motion, and the saw begin to eat Sandy fer
a mont' dey would all take him, en groanin'., en sweekin', kyars
my'memb'ance back ter ole times he, en, a spekilater come erlong a lot
metal it niggers, en Mars Marrabo' kinfolks'roun' de country, w'en
of dey wuz short had all had'im de same lenk er time; en den
imagination a deep interest stories of plantation life which she
hears from the lips of the older native colored people Some of these
stories are quaintly idea humorous; others wildly extravagant
revealing sympathetic ear of a woman, disclose many a er han's;
his take Mars Marrabo nex ter yo' bleedst ter make de trade dey
wuz all wuk so well, dat w'en Mars Marrabo's chilluns up en married
off, dey all'em wanted daddy fer the swamp, and then climbed and
the long hill leading or gossip, and feeling were compelled of ter
gin ter pine log was placed in position, the of the mill was set
in stay fum one week's een ter de yuther."

One time w'en Sandy wuz break.
The Earl and
his family had been duly informed of Lady Annabel's visit to the
metropolis, and had hastened to offer her the hospitality of their
home; but the offer had been declined, with feelings, however, not a
little gratified by the earnestness with which it had been proffered.

Venetia was now, for the first time in her life, to see a relative.
The anticipated meeting excited in her mind rather curiosity than
sentiment. She could not share the agitation of her mother, and
yet she looked forward to the arrival of her uncle with extreme
inquisitiveness. She was not long kept in suspense. Their breakfast
was scarcely finished, when he was announced. Lady Annabel turned
rather pale; and Venetia, who felt herself as it were a stranger to
her blood, would have retired, had not her mother requested her to
remain; so she only withdrew to the back of the apartment.

Her uncle was ten years the senior of his sister, but not unlike her.
Tall, graceful, with those bland and sympathising manners that easily
win hearts, he entered the room with a smile of affection, yet with a
composure of deportment that expressed at the same time how sincerely
delighted he was at the meeting, and how considerately determined, at
the same time, not to indulge in a scene. Still more was the impressed
by the apathy of the Christian world at the North, and surely,
she said, the people did not understand what the "system" was.
Appeals were made to her, who had some personal knowledge of the
subject, to take up her pen.
The task seemed beyond her in every way. She was not strong, she
was in the midst of heavy domestic cares, with a young infant, with
pupils to whom she was giving daily lessons, and the limited income
of the family required the strictest economy.

The dependence was upon the small salary of Professor Stowe, and the
few dollars she could earn by an occasional newspaper or magazine
article. But the theme burned in her mind, and finally took this
shape: at least she would write some sketches and show the Christian
world what slavery really was, and what the system was that they
were defending.

She wanted to do this with entire fairness, showing all the
mitigations of the "patriarchal" system, and all that individuals
concerned in it could do to alleviate its misery. While pondering
this she came by chance, in a volume of an anti-slavery magazine,
upon the authenticated account of the escape of a woman with her
child on the ice across the Ohio River from Kentucky. She began to
meditate. The faithful slave husband in Kentucky, who had refused to
escape from a master who trusted him, when he was about to be sold
"down river," came to her as a pattern of Uncle Tom, and the scenes
of the story began to form themselves in her mind. "The first part
of the book ever committed to writing [this is the statement of Mrs.

Stowe] was the death of Uncle Tom.

This scene presented itself almost as a tangible vision to her mind
while sitting at the communion-table in the little church in Brunswick.
She was perfectly overcome by it, and could scarcely restrain the
convulsion of tears and sobbings that shook her frame. She hastened
home and wrote it, and her husband being away, read it to her two
sons of ten and twelve years of age.

The little fellows broke out into convulsions of weeping, one of them
saying through his sobs, 'Oh, mamma, slavery is the most cursed
thing in the world!'

From that time the story can less be said to have been composed by
her than imposed upon her. Scenes, incidents, conversations rushed
upon her with a vividness and importunity that would not be denied.
The book insisted upon getting itself into being, and would take no
denial."
When two or three chapters were written she wrote to her friend, Dr.
Bailey, of Washington, the editor of The National Era, to which she
had contributed, that she was planning a story that might run through
several numbers of the Era.

The story was at once applied for, and thereafter weekly installments
were sent on regularly, in spite of all cares and distractions. The
installments were mostly written during the morning, on a little
desk in a corner of the dining-room of the cottage in Brunswick,
subject to all the interruptions of house-keeping, her children
bursting into the room continually with the importunity of
childhood. But they did not break the spell or destroy her
abstraction.
With a smile and a word and a motion of the hand she would wave them
off, and keep on in her magician's work. Long afterwards they recalled
this, dimly understood at the time, and wondered at her power of
concentration. Usually at night the chapters were read to the family,
who followed the story with intense feeling. The narrative ran on for
nine months, exciting great interest among the limited readers of the
Era, and gaining sympathetic words from the anti-slavery people, but
without making any wide impression on the public.

We may pause here in the narrative to note two things: the story
was not the work of a novice, and it was written out of abundant
experience and from an immense mass of accumulated thought and
material.

Mrs. Stowe was in her fortieth year. She had been using her pen since
she was twelve years old, in extensive correspondence, in occasional
essays, in short stories and sketches, some of which appeared in a
volume called The Mayflower, published in 1843, and for many years her
writing for newspapers and periodicals had added appreciably to the
small family income. She was in the maturity of her intellectual
powers, she was trained in the art of writing, and she had, as Walter
Scott had when he began the Waverley Novels at the age of forty-three,
abundant store of materials on which to draw. To be sure, she was
on fire with a moral purpose, but she had the dramatic instinct,
and she felt that her object would not be reached by writing an abolition
tract.

"In shaping her material the author had but one purpose, to show the
institution of slavery truly, just as it existed. She had
visited in Kentucky; had formed the acquaintance of people who
were just, upright, and generous, and yet slave-holders. She had
heard their views, and appreciated their situation; she felt
that justice required that their difficulties should be recognized and
their virtues acknowledged. It was her object to show that the evils
of slavery were the inherent evils of a bad system, and not always
the fault of those who had become involved in it and were its
actual administrators. Then she was convinced that the presentation of
slavery alone, in its most dreadful forms, would be a picture of such
unrelieved horror and darkness as nobody could be induced to look
at.

Of set purpose, she sought to light up the darkness by humorous
and grotesque episodes, and the presentation of the milder and more
amusing phases of slavery, for which her recollection of the
never-failing wit and drollery of her former colored friends in Ohio
gave her abundant material."
This is her own account of the process, years after. But it is evident
that, whether consciously or unconsciously, she did but follow the
inevitable law of all great dramatic creators and true
story-tellers since literature began.

For this story Mrs. Stowe received from the Era the sum of three
hundred dollars. Before it was finished it attracted the attention
of Mr. J. P.
Jewett, of Boston, a young and then unknown publisher, who offered
to issue it in book form.

His offer was accepted, but as the tale ran on he became alarmed
at its length, and wrote to the author that she was making the story
too long for a one-volume novel; that the subject was unpopular;
that people would not willingly hear much about it; that one short
volume might possibly sell, but that if it grew to two that might
prove a fatal obstacle to its success. Mrs. Stowe replied that she did
not make the story, that the story made itself, and that she could
not stop it till it was done.

The publisher hesitated.

It is said that a competent literary critic to whom he submitted it sat
up all night with the novel, and then reported, "The story has life
in it; it will sell." Mr. Jewett proposed to Professor Stowe to publish
it on half profits if he would share the expenses. This offer was
declined, for the Stowes had no money to advance, and the common
royalty of ten per cent on the sales was accepted.

Mrs. Stowe was not interested in this business transaction. She
was thinking only of having the book circulated for the effect she
had at heart. The intense absorption in the story held her until
the virtual end in the death of Uncle Tom, and then it seemed as
if the whole vital force had left her.

She sank into a profound discouragement. Would this appeal, which
she had written with her heart's blood, go for nothing, as all the
prayers and tears and strivings had already gone? When the last proof
sheets left her hands, "it seemed to her that there was no hope; that
nobody would read, nobody would pity; that this frightful system,
which had already pursued its victims into the free States, might
at last even threaten them in Canada." Resolved to leave nothing
undone to attract attention to her cause, she wrote letters and
ordered copies of her novel sent to men of prominence who had been
known for their anti-slavery sympathies,--to Prince Albert, Macaulay,
Charles Dickens, Charles Kingsley, and Lord Carlisle.

Then she waited for the result.

She had not long to wait.

The success of the book was immediate. Three thousand copies were sold
the first day, within a few days ten thousand copies had gone, on
the 1st of April a second edition went to press, and thereafter
eight presses running day and night were barely able to keep pace
with the demand for it.

Within a year three hundred thousand copies were sold. No work of
fiction ever spread more quickly throughout the reading community
or awakened a greater amount of public feeling. It was read by
everybody, learned and unlearned, high and low, for it was an
appeal to universal human sympathy, and the kindling of this spread
the book like wildfire.

At first it seemed to go by acclamation. But this was not altogether
owing to sympathy with the theme.

I believe that it was its power as a novel that carried it largely.
The community was generally apathetic when it was not hostile to
any real effort to be rid of slavery.

This presently appeared. At first there were few dissenting voices from
the chorus of praise.

But when the effect of the book began to be evident it met with an
opposition fiercer and more personal than the great wave of
affectionate thankfulness which greeted it at first.

The South and the defenders and apologists of slavery everywhere
were up in arms.

It was denounced in pulpit and in press, and some of the severest things
were said of it at the North. The leading religious newspaper of the
country, published in New York, declared that it was
"anti-Christian."
Mrs. Stowe was twice astonished: first by its extraordinary sale, and
second by the quarter from which the assault on it came.

She herself says that her expectations were strikingly different
from the facts.

"She had painted slaveholders as amiable, generous, and just. She
had shown examples among them of the noblest and most beautiful traits
of character; had admitted fully their temptations, their perplexities,
and their difficulties, so that a friend of hers who had many
relatives in the South wrote to her: 'Your book is going to be the
great pacificator; it will unite both North and South.'

Her expectation was that the professed abolitionists would denounce it
as altogether too mild in its dealings with slaveholders. To her
astonishment, it was the extreme abolitionists who received, and the
entire South who rose up against it."
There is something almost amusing in Mrs.

Stowe's honest expectation that the deadliest blow the system ever
suffered should have been received thankfully by those whose
traditions, education, and interests were all bound up in it.

And yet from her point of view it was not altogether unreasonable.
Her blackest villain and most loathsome agent of the system, Legree,
was a native of Vermont.

All her wrath falls upon the slave-traders, the auctioneers, the public
whippers, and the overseers, and all these persons and classes were
detested by the Southerners to the point of loathing, and were
social outcasts.

The slave-traders and the overseers were tolerated as perhaps necessary
in the system, but they were never admitted into respectable society.
This feeling Mrs.

Stowe regarded as a condemnation of the system.

Pecuniary reward was the last thing that Mrs.

Stowe expected for her disinterested labor, but it suits the world's
notion of the fitness of things that this was not altogether
wanting. For the millions of copies of Uncle Tom scattered over the
world the author could expect nothing, but in her own country her
copyright yielded her a moderate return that lifted her out of
poverty and enabled her to pursue her philanthropic and literary
career. Four months after the publication of the book Professor
Stowe was in the publisher's office, and Mr.

Jewett asked him how much he expected to receive.

"I hope," said Professor Stowe, with a whimsical smile, "that
it will be enough to buy my wife a silk dress." The publisher
handed him a check for ten thousand dollars.

Before Mrs. Stowe had a response to the letters accompanying the books
privately sent to England, the novel was getting known there. Its
career in Great Britain paralleled its success in America. In April
a copy reached London in the hands of a gentleman who had
taken it on the steamer to read. He gave it to Mr.

Henry Vizetelly, who submitted it to Mr.

David Bogue, a man known for his shrewdness and enterprise. He took
a night to consider it, and then declined it, although it was offered
to him for five pounds.

A Mr. Gilpin also declined it. It was then submitted to Mr. Salisbury,
a printer.

This taster for the public sat up with the book till four o'clock in the
morning, alternately weeping and laughing. Fearing, however, that
this result was due to his own weakness, he woke up his wife, whom he
describes as a rather strong-minded woman, and finding that the
story kept her awake and made her also laugh and cry, he thought
it might safely be printed.

It seems, therefore, that Mr. Vizetelly ventured to risk five pounds,
and the volume was brought out through the nominal agency of Clarke &
Company.

In the first week an edition of seven thousand was worked off.

It made no great stir until the middle of June, but during July it
sold at the rate of one thousand a week.

By the 20th of August the demand for it was overwhelming. The
printing firm was then employing four hundred people in getting
it out, and seventeen printing-machines, besides hand-presses.

Already one hundred and fifty thousand copies were sold.
Mr. Vizetelly disposed of his interest, and a new printing firm began
to issue monster editions.

About this time the publishers awoke to the fact that any one was
at liberty to reprint the book, and the era of cheap literature was
initiated, founded on American reprints which cost the publisher no
royalty.

A shilling edition followed the one-and-sixpence, and then one
complete for sixpence. As to the total sale, Mr. Sampson Low reports:
"From April to December, 1852, twelve different editions (not
reissues) were published, and within the twelve months of its
first appearance eighteen different London publishing houses were engaged
in supplying the great demand that had set in, the total number of
editions being forty, varying from fine illustrated editions at
15s., 10s., and 7s. 6d. to the cheap popular editions of 1s. 9d.
and 6d. After carefully analyzing these editions and weighing
probabilities with ascertained facts, I am able pretty confidently
to say that the aggregate number of copies circulated in Great Britain
and the colonies exceeds one and a half millions." Later, abridgments
were published.

Almost simultaneously with this furor in England the book made its way
on the Continent. Several translations appeared in Germany and France,
and for the authorized French edition Mrs. Stowe wrote a new preface,
which served thereafter for most of the European editions. I find
no record of the order of the translations of the book into foreign
languages, but those into some of the Oriental tongues did not appear
till several years after the great excitement. The ascertained
translations are into twenty-three tongues, namely: Arabic,
Armenian, Chinese, Danish, Dutch, Finnish, Flemish, French, German,
Hungarian, Illyrian, Italian, Japanese, Polish, Portuguese,
modern Greek, Russian, Servian, Siamese, Spanish, Swedish, Wallachian,
and Welsh.

This dinner occurred a few days after the visit of the Herberts to the
Bishop, and that excellent personage, her own family, and some others
equally distinguished, but all of the ministerial party, were invited
to meet her. Lady Annabel found herself placed at table between a
pompous courtier, who, being a gourmand, was not very prompt to
disturb his enjoyment by conversation, and a young man whom she found
very agreeable, and who at first, indeed, attracted her attention by
his resemblance to some face with which she felt she was familiar,
and yet which she was not successful in recalling. His manners were
remarkably frank and ingenuous, yet soft and refined. Without having
any peculiar brilliancy of expression, he was apt and fluent, and his
whole demeanour characterised by a gentle modesty that was highly
engaging. Apparently he had travelled a great deal, for he more than
once alluded to his experience of foreign countries; but this was
afterwards explained by Lady Annabel discovering, from an observation
he let fall, that he was a sailor. A passing question from an opposite
guest also told her that he was a member of parliament. While she was
rather anxiously wishing to know who he might be, and congratulating
herself that one in whose favour she was so much prepossessed should
be on the right side, their host saluted him from the top of the
table, and said, 'Captain Cadurcis, a glass of wine.'

The countenance was now explained. It was indeed Lord Cadurcis whom he
resembled, though his eyes were dark blue, and his hair light brown.
This then was that cousin who had been sent to sea to make his
fortune, and whom Lady Annabel had a faint recollection of poor Mrs.
Cadurcis once mentioning. George Cadurcis had not exactly made his
fortune, but he had distinguished himself in his profession, and
especially in Rodney's victory, and had fought his way up to the
command of a frigate. The frigate had recently been paid off, and he
had called to pay his respects to his noble relative with the hope of
obtaining his interest for a new command. The guardian of his
cousin, mortified with the conduct of his hopeful ward, was not very
favourably impressed towards any one who bore the name of Cadurcis;
yet George, with no pretence, had a winning honest manner that made
friends; his lordship took a fancy to him, and, as he could not at the
moment obtain him a ship, he did the next best thing for him in his
power; a borough was vacant, and he put him into parliament.

'Do you know,' said Lady Annabel to her neighbour, 'I have been
fancying all dinner time that we had met before; but I find it is that
you only resemble one with whom I was once acquainted.'

'My cousin!' said the Captain; 'he will be very mortified when I go
home, if I tell him your ladyship speaks of his acquaintance as one
that is past.'

'It is some years since we met,' said Lady Annabel, in a more reserved
tone.

'Plantagenet can never forget what he owes to you,' said Captain
Cadurcis. 'How often has he spoken to me of you and Miss Herbert! It
was only the other night; yes! As the waters of the bay were quiet, it
did not take Ben long to row Dr.
Mackey over to the wreck on the rocks.

"Be careful how you steps out, sah," said the colored man. "De rocks am
slippery, an' you kin twist an ankle widout half tryin', sah."
"I will be careful, Ben. So this is the wreck?"
"Yes, sah."
"I presume all that was movable in the ship has been carried off?"
"Long ago, sah."
"But the inside of the ship itself was not torn out?"
"No, sah. De folks around yeah is too afraid ob ghosteses fo' dat."

"Ah, yes! so I heard--at least, I would suppose so," replied the
doctor, in some confusion.

"By the way, you need not remain here. I will visit the wreck alone. You
can come back in an hour or so."
"Wery well, massah."
"But don't forget to come back. I don't want to be left here all
night."
"Don't worry, sah; I'll be back fo' dat dollah, sah," and Ben
grinned.

"Oh, yes! I forgot about the dollar. Well, you shall have it when you
take me back to shore."
The doctor walked slowly toward the wreck, glancing back several times
to see if Old Ben was following him.

The colored man rowed away in a thoughtful mood.

"Somet'ing is on dat man's mind, suah!" he muttered to himself. "He's
gwine ter do somet'ing."
With difficulty the surgeon climbed up to the deck of the wreck.

A desolate spectacle presented itself. Everything was charred
by the fire.

"Truly a nice place to come to," said the man to himself. "Now,
supposing this thing turns out a wild-goose chase, after all? Let me
see, the stateroom was No. 15. I wonder if I can still locate it?"

With caution he descended the companion way and entered the main
cabin of the stranded vessel. Here he drew from his pocket a candle and
lit it.

He walked slowly toward the side of the cabin until he reached a
stateroom bearing the number 7 upon the door.

"Seven," he murmured. "And the second from this is eleven. That shows
the numbers on this side are all odd. The next must be thirteen, and
the next fifteen."
He held the candle to the door, but the number plate was gone. Without
hesitation he pushed upon the door, which was already partly open.
It fell back, exposing the interior of the stateroom, now bare of all
things movable, and covered with dust and cobwebs.

"A dirty job this," he murmured, and set the candle down upon a beam
running along the side of a wall. He gazed around the stateroom
curiously, as if hardly knowing what to do next.

"The little closet was set in the wall at the foot of the bed. Now
which was the foot of the bed? I'll try both ends." He did so,
tapping on the woodwork with his knuckles. Presently he found a
hole where there had once been a small knob.

"The closet, sure enough!" he cried, and his face took on a new
interest. "Now where is that door-knob?"
He hunted on the floor, but no knob came to view. But a bent nail
was handy, and this he inserted into the hole sideways, and pulled with
all his force. There was a slight creak, and a small door came open,
revealing a dark closet about a foot square and equally deep.

If the room was dirty the closet was more so, for a crack at the
top had let in both dirt and water, and at first he could see nothing
but a solid cake of dirt before him.

Digging into this, he presently uncovered a heavy tin box, painted
black.

"Eureka! the box at last!" he cried, in a tone full of pleasure. "I
am the lucky one, after all!"

  He brought the tin box forth and brushed it off.
  There was a little padlock in front, and this was locked.

Bringing a bunch of keys from his pocket, he began to try them, one
after another.

At last he found one to fit, and opened the box.

"The papers at last!" he murmured, and his eyes gleamed with expectation.
"Let me see what there is." He turned them over. "The marriage certificate
for one, and letters from his father about that property. And other
letters from her folks--all here, and just what I wanted."

He shoved the documents back into the box.

"The fortune is mine!"
Returning to the closet he cleaned it out thoroughly, to learn if
it contained anything more of value. But there was nothing more
there, and presently he blew out the candle, hid the tin box
under his coat, and returned to the deck.

Ben was rowing not far away and saw the doctor wave his hand.

"Is yo' ready, massah?" he called out.

"Yes, Ben."
The colored man said no more, but rowed inshore, and in the meantime
the doctor hurried down to meet him.

"Did you find any gold, massah?" asked the colored man, his white teeth
gleaming.

"Gold! Why, you foolish nigger, what chance is there of finding gold
on a wreck over ten years old?

The best thing you can do is to break the boat to pieces and take
the wood ashore for fuel."

"But de ghosteses, massah!

Besides, Mrs.

Ruthven wouldn't let us touch dat wrack nohow."

"On account of the boy, I suppose."
"Yes, massah."

"To tell the truth, my man, I have now as much interest in that
ship as has that boy or Mrs.

Ruthven. It brings back an exciting passage in my life. My visit to
the wreck was made to satisfy me concerning several important
questions.

I was one of the passengers on that ill-fated ship!"
"Golly, massah, yo' don't really mean dat?"

And Old Ben's eyes opened widely.

"Yes, I do.

I suspected it before; now I am dead certain of it."
At this declaration Old Ben grew quite excited.

"And did yo' know Massah Jack's fadder, sah?"

"Yes, my man, I knew him very well," and there was a significant smile
on the doctor's face as he spoke.

"And was he a gen'man, sah? St. John Ruthven t'inks he was common white
trash."
"He was a gentleman of high family--the son of an English nobleman,
although born in this country."

"An' Jack's mudder, sah?"
"Was an American lady--a lady belonging to one of the first families
of Massachusetts."

"Golly, a Northerner!" and Ben's face became a study.

"Yes."
"Yo' must visit de house, sah, and tell Mrs. Ruthven 'bout dis. She
will want to heah de partic'lars wery much, sah."
"Yes, I will visit the Ruthven home," replied the doctor.

"Yo' know de way, sah?"
"I believe I do."
"I can show yo' de way, an' will do it willingly. So you knew
Jack's fadder an' mudder! Golly, but aint dat strange--after all
dese yeahs, too!

Jack will want to see yo', ob course."
"And I shall want to see Jack," replied the medical man.

"Jack's a fine lad, sah."
"I am glad to hear it." But, as he spoke, the face of Dr. Mackey
became a study.

"Yes, sah; aint no bettah boy in all dese parts, sah."
While talking Ben was rowing steadily, and it was not long before
the pair reached shore.

Then the boat was made fast, the oars put away, and the doctor and
the colored man started for the Ruthven mansion.

CHAPTER XI.

MRS. RUTHVEN SPEAKS HER MIND.

Leaving the shore of the bay, St. John Ruthven walked slowly toward
the home of his aunt.

It irritated him greatly to think that his cousin preferred the society
of Jack to his own.

"I must speak to Aunt Alice about this," he said to himself. "It is
getting worse and worse."
He found his aunt sitting in the garden reading. She looked up in
surprise at his approach.

"Aunt Alice, can you spare me a few minutes?" he said, after the usual
greeting.

"Surely, St. John. What is it that you wish?"
"I wish to speak to you about Marion."
"About Marion?" Mrs. Ruthven looked somewhat surprised.

"Yes. I saw her out again in a boat with that boy."
"That boy? Do you mean Jack?"
"Yes.

I wonder you trust her to his care--after what happened at the wreck."

"Why should I not? Jack understands how to manage a boat.

Marion is safe with her brother."

"But he is not her brother," cried St. John.

"Not in blood, perhaps, but in affection.

They have been brought up together as children of one family."

"My dear Aunt Alice, do you think you have done wisely in encouraging
this intimacy?"

he said earnestly.

"What can you mean?" she demanded.

"Jack is fourteen years old and Marion is eighteen."
"Of course. But you know nothing of the boy's parentage.

He is an unknown waif, cast upon the shore in his infancy, very
possibly of a low family."

"No, you are wrong there. Remember, I saw his mother. Everything
indicated her to be a lady. The child's clothing was of fine texture.

But even if it were otherwise, he has endeared himself to me by his
noble qualities.

I regard him as a son."
St.

John shrugged his shoulders. "You look upon him with the eyes of affection.
To me he seems----"
"Well?"

"A commonplace boy,--a mechanic's child, very possibly,--who is quite
out of place among the Ruthvens."
At this Mrs. Ruthven grew indignant.

"You are prejudiced!" she cried. "I will not discuss the matter farther
with you. I wish no one to speak to me against Jack. He is as dear
to me as Marion herself."
The young man drew a deep breath. "I am silenced, Aunt Alice. But I
wish to speak to you about Marion. She is no longer a child, but a
young lady."
"Yes, she is now eighteen," answered Mrs. Ruthven slowly. "But
to me she seems a child still."
"Well--er--at what age did you marry, aunt?"
"At eighteen."
"Then, Aunt Alice, you cannot be surprised if I have thought of Marion
as my future wife. I love her warmly and sincerely."
At this abrupt declaration Mrs. Ruthven was considerably
surprised.

"Why, St. John, do you wish to marry that child?" she exclaimed.

"Why not? She is eighteen."

"Yes, but I had never thought of her as old enough to be married. Have
you spoken to her?"
"Yes," he returned slowly, and with a cloud on his face.

"And what did she say?"
"Nothing--that is, she was taken by surprise and did not wish to discuss
the matter at present."

Mrs. Ruthven drew a breath of relief. "She was sensible. Have you
any reason to think that she loves you?"

"I think she will soon. I am not conceited, Aunt Alice, but I
think I have a good appearance and--I am a Ruthven."
"You are much older than she, St.

John."

"I am, but a man of my age is still a young man."
"I should not object if she loved you, but I have never seen any
indications of it."
"Will you let her know that you favor my suit?"

At this Mrs. Ruthven shrugged her shoulders.

"But I am not sure that I do," she returned slowly.

"Have you heard anything to my discredit?" he demanded stiffly.

"No, no, St. John; but don't be precipitate. Let the matter rest for the
present."
"Well, if you insist upon it, Aunt Alice," he said, his face falling.

"It seems to me best."
"But still, Aunt Alice, if Marion allows her affections to drift in
another direction----"
"I do not think she will, for the present. She is more interested in
the war than in anything else. Why, if I would allow it, she would go
off and offer her services as a nurse."
"Don't let her go, aunt--I beg of you."
Mrs. Ruthven looked at her nephew curiously.

"What makes you so afraid of this war, St. John?"
"Afraid? I am not afraid exactly," he stammered. "I was thinking of
dear Marion. It would be horrible for her to put up with the hardships,
and such sights!"
"But somebody must bear such sights and sounds. War is war, and our
beloved country must be sustained, even in her darkest hour."

He trembled and turned pale, but quickly recovered.

"What you say is true, Aunt Alice. I have wanted to go to the front,
but my mother positively refuses her permission. She is in mortal
terror that the Yankees will come to our plantation and loot the place
in my absence."
"Do you think you can keep them from coming?"
"No, but I can--er--I can perhaps protect my mother."
"If you went off, she could come over here and remain with me."
"She wishes to remain at home. The old place is very dear to her. It
would break her heart to have the enemy destroy it."
"I should not wish our place destroyed. Yet the only way to keep the
enemy back is to go to the front and fight them."
"Well--I presume you are right, and I shall go some time--when I
can win my mother over," said St.

John lamely.

He wanted to speak of Marion again, but, on looking across the
garden, saw his cousin and Jack approaching. Soon the pair came
up and Marion greeted St. John with a slight bow.

"We have been out rowing, mother," said Jack, as he came up and kissed
Mrs. Ruthven. "It was lovely on the bay."
"Did you go far?"
"We went over to Hoskin's beach. Marion rowed part of the way."
"I hope you had a nice time," said St. John stiffly, turning to
Marion.

"We had a lovely time," answered the girl. "Jack is the best rower around
here."

"Humph! Why, he's only a boy!" sneered the spendthrift.

"Yes, I am only a boy, St. John, but I reckon I can row as good
as you," replied our hero warmly. He had not forgotten the encounter
on the road.

"Do you, indeed?"

"Yes, I do. Some day we can try a race.

I'll give you choice of boats and beat you."
At this Marion set up a merry laugh.

"I believe Jack can beat you at rowing, St. John," she said.

"I never race with boys," answered the spendthrift, more stiffly than
ever.

"I'll race you to-day," went on Jack. "And I've rowed three or four
miles already."

"Oh, Jack! you are too tired and the sun is too strong," remonstrated
Mrs. Ruthven, although inwardly pleased to see the lad stand up for
himself.

"I said I never raced with boys," said St. John.

"I would like to see a race," came from Marion.

"I dare you to row Jack, St. John."
"Let us make it to the rocks and back," said Jack. "And you can have any
of the boats you please.

I dare you to do it," and he looked at St. John defiantly.

"St. John may be tired. Perhaps he has been working," suggested
Mrs.

Ruthven, although she knew better.

"No, he has been walking and resting along shore," said Marion. "We
saw him from our boat."

"I'll give you another advantage, besides choice of boats," said Jack,
bound that St. John should not back out.

"I'll carry Marion as extra weight."

"Oh, that wouldn't be fair!" cried the girl. "Let St.

John carry mamma."

"No, I must decline to go," said Mrs.

Ruthven.

"I'll take Marion, and St.

John need carry only himself," said our hero.
"I am certain I can beat him.

I dare him to take me up."
There seemed no help for it, so St.

John gave in, and soon the three were on the way to Old Ben's
boathouse.

CHAPTER XII.

THE BOAT RACE ON THE BAY.

"I think this is a very foolish proceeding," observed St. John as they
walked along.

"I think it's going to be lots of fun," replied Marion. "The one who
wins shall receive a lovely bunch of roses from me."
"Then I'll win," said the spendthrift, and bestowed a meaning smile
upon her, which instantly made her turn her head.

They used a short cut to the beach, consequently they did not meet Old
Ben and Dr. Mackey.

When the boathouse was gained they went to inspect the four boats
lying there.

St. John knew the boats well, for he was by no means an unskilled
rower.

He picked out the lightest of the craft, one which was long and narrow,
and also took the best pair of oars.

Marion was going to remonstrate, but Jack silenced her.

"But, Jack, if you have a poor boat, and carry me, too----" she began,
in a whisper.

"I'll beat him, anyway," replied our hero. "I know I can do it."
Soon they had the boats out.

Marion half expected St. John to invite her to enter his craft, but
in this she was mistaken. The spendthrift was afraid that the extra
weight would prove fatal to his success. Yet it angered him to have
his cousin go off with Jack.

"Marion, you ought to remain on shore," he said. "The race ought
to be rowed with both boats empty."
"Well, if you think best----" she began.
"No, Marion, you are to go with me," put in Jack hastily. "I said
I would row with you in my boat, and I will."
"But I am quite a weight----" 
"Never mind; jump in."
As there seemed no help for it, Marion entered Jack's boat and our
hero pulled a rod away from the shore.
"Now where is the race to be?" asked St. John, as he followed Jack's
example and pulled off his coat.
"Let Marion decide that," said the youth promptly.
"Then make it to the Sister Rocks," said Marion. "Each boat must
go directly around the rocks." 
"That suits me," said Jack.
"It's a good mile and a half," grumbled St. John. He had no desire
to exert himself in that warm sun.
"It's no farther for you than for Jack," answered the girl. "Come,
are you ready?"
There was a pause, and then St. John said that he was.
"And you, Jack?" 
"All ready, Marion."
"Then go!" cried the girl.
The four oars dropped into the water and off went the two boats,
side by side.
St. John, eager to win for the sake of finding favor in Marion's
eyes, exerted himself to the utmost, and soon forged ahead.
"Oh, Jack! he is going to beat," cried the girl, in disappointment.
"I am too much of a load for you."
"The race has but started," he replied. "Wait until we turn the
rocks and then see who is ahead."
On and on went the two boats, St. John pulling strongly, but somewhat
wildly--a pace he could not keep up. Jack rowed strongly, too, but
kept himself somewhat in reserve.
When half the distance to the Sister Rocks was covered St. John was
four boat-lengths ahead.
"Ha! what did I tell you!" he cried. "I will beat you, and beat you
badly, too!"
"'He laughs best who laughs last,'" quoted Jack. "Marion, sit a
little more to the left, please. There, that's it--now we'll go
along straighter."
"I wish I could help row," she said. "But that wouldn't be fair.
But, oh, Jack! you must beat him!"
Slowly, but surely, they approached the Sister Rocks. Being ahead,
St.
John turned in, to take the shortest cut around the turning-stake,
if such the rocks may be called.
"Too bad, Jack, you will have to go outside," cried Marion.
"Never mind, I'll beat him, anyway," answered our hero, and now let
himself out.
The added strength to his stroke soon told, and before long he began
to crawl close to St. John's craft. Then he overlapped his opponent
and forged ahead.
"Hurrah! you are ahead!" cried Marion excitedly, but in a voice her
cousin might not hear. "Keep up, Jack; you are doing wonderfully
well."
Our hero did keep up, and when he reached the first of the Sister
Rocks he was more than two boat-lengths ahead.
He knew the rocks well, and glided around them skillfully, with
just enough water between the rocks and the boat to make the turning
a safe one.
"Now for the home stretch!" he murmured, and began to pull as never
before. He felt certain he could defeat St. John, but he wished to
make the defeat as large as possible. "He'll find even a nobody can
row," he told himself, with grim satisfaction.
To have Jack go ahead of him drove St. John frantic, and as he drew
closer to the rocks he became wildly excited.
"He must not win this race--he a mere nobody," he muttered. "What
will Marion think if he wins?"
The thought was maddening, and he pulled desperately, first on one
oar and then on the other. Around the rocks the waters ran swiftly,
and before he knew it there came a crash and his craft was stove
in and upset. He clutched at the gunwale of the boat, but missed
it, and plunged headlong into the bay.
When the mishap occurred Jack was paying sole attention to the work
cut out for him, consequently he did not notice what was taking
place. Nor did Marion see the disaster until several seconds
later.
"St. John will----" began the girl, and then turned deadly pale.
"Oh, Jack!" she screamed.
"What's the matter?" he cried, and stopped rowing instantly.
"Look! look! St. John's boat has gone on the rocks and he is
overboard!" she gasped.
"How foolish for him to row so close," was Jack's comment. And then
he added, in something like disgust, "I reckon the race is off now."

"We must go back for him," went on Marion. "See, he has disappeared."

The girl was right, the weight of St. John's clothing had carried
him beneath the surface. The swiftly running water had likewise
caught him, and when he came up it was at a point fifty feet away
from the nearest rock.

"He will be drowned, Jack!"
"Help! help!" came in a faint cry from the spendthrift. "Help me,
Jack!
Don't leave me to perish!"
"Keep up, I'm coming!" answered Jack readily, and as quickly as he
could he turned his boat and pulled in the direction where St. John
had again sunk from sight.
The spendthrift was but an indifferent swimmer, and the weight of
his clothing was much against him. Moreover, he was scared to death,
and threw his arms around wildly instead of doing his best to save
himself.
He had gone down once, and now, as Jack's boat came closer, he went
down a second time.
"Oh, Jack! he will surely be drowned!" gasped Marion, and she placed
her hands over her eyes to keep out the awful sight.
"Look to the boat, I am going after him!" cried our hero suddenly,
and leaping to the bow, he dove into the bay after the sinking young
man.
[Illustration: LEAPING TO THE BOW, HE DOVE INTO THE BAY AFTER THE
SINKING YOUNG MAN.--_Page 92._]
He had been afraid of bringing the craft closer and hitting St.
John.
Now he struck out boldly, and then made a second dive, coming up
close to the spendthrift's side.
St. John wished to cry out, but the words would not come. Espying
Jack, he grabbed for the lad and clutched him around the throat.
"Don't hold on so tight!" cried Jack in alarm. "I will save you.
Take hold of my shoulder."
But St. John was too excited to be reasoned with, and instead of
letting up, he clung closer than ever, so that soon both were in
peril of going down.
"Let up, I say!" repeated Jack, and then, drawing up one knee, he
literally forced the young man from him. Then, as St. John turned
partly around, he caught him under the arms and began to tread
water.
By this time Marion was at the oars, her temporary fear vanishing
with the thought that not only St. John, but also Jack, was in
peril. With caution she brought the rowboat closer.
"Catch hold there," said Jack, and seeing the boat, St. John made
a wild clutch for the gunwale, nearly upsetting the craft.
"Don't--you'll have me in the water next!" screamed Marion. Then
Jack steadied the boat, and St. John scrambled in over the stern,
to fall on the bottom all but exhausted, and so frightened that he
could not utter a word. Jack followed on board.
"Oh, St. John, what a narrow escape!" gasped Marion, after Jack was
safe. "I thought you would surely be drowned!"
For the moment St. John did not speak. He sat up, panting heavily.
"The race is off," said Jack. "Shall I go after your boat, St.
John?"
"I don't care," growled the spendthrift, at last. "Where is she?"
"Caught between the rocks."
"Let Old Ben get the boat," put in Marion. "Both of you had better
get home with your wet clothing."
"I'm all right," answered the spendthrift coolly.
"St. John, Jack saved your life."
"Oh, I would have been all right--although, to be sure, my boat was
wrecked."
"Why, what would you have done?" asked Marion, in astonishment.
"I would have swam to shore, or else crawled on the rocks and
signaled Old Ben to come out after me," answered St. John.
He never thought to thank Jack, and this made Marion very
indignant.
"Jack did a great deal for you, St. John," she exclaimed. "And he
won the race, too," she added, and would say no more.
Without loss of time Jack rowed the boat back to the landing and
St.
John leaped out.During these three
years he had still, in her inmost heart, remained her own Plantagenet,
her adopted brother, whom she loved, and in whose welfare her feelings
were deeply involved. The mysterious circumstances of her birth, and
the discoveries to which they had led, had filled her mind with a
fanciful picture of human nature, over which she had long brooded. A
great poet had become her ideal of a man. Sometimes she had sighed,
when musing over her father and Plantagenet on the solitary seashore
at Weymouth, that Cadurcis, instead of being the merely amiable, and
somewhat narrow-minded being that she supposed, had not been invested
with those brilliant and commanding qualities which she felt could
alone master her esteem. Often had she, in those abstracted hours,
played with her imagination in combining the genius of her father with
the soft heart of that friend to whom she was so deeply attached. She
had wished, in her reveries, that Cadurcis might have been a great
man; that he might have existed in an atmosphere of glory amid the
plaudits and admiration of his race; and that then he might have
turned from all that fame, so dear to them both, to the heart which
could alone sympathise with the native simplicity of his childhood.

The ladies withdrew. The Bishop and another of the guests joined them
after a short interval. The rest remained below, and drank their wine
with the freedom not unusual in those days, Lord Cadurcis among them,
although it was not his habit. But he was not convivial, though he
never passed the bottle untouched. He was in one of those dark humours
of which there was a latent spring in his nature, but which in old
days had been kept in check by his simple life, his inexperienced
mind, and the general kindness that greeted him, and which nothing but
the caprice and perversity of his mother could occasionally develope.
But since the great revolution in his position, since circumstances
had made him alike acquainted with his nature, and had brought all
society to acknowledge its superiority; since he had gained and felt
his irresistible power, and had found all the world, and all the
glory of it, at his feet, these moods had become more frequent. The
slightest reaction in the self-complacency that was almost unceasingly
stimulated by the applause of applauded men and the love of the
loveliest women, instantly took the shape and found refuge in the
immediate form of the darkest spleen, generally, indeed, brooding in
silence, and, if speaking, expressing itself only in sarcasm. Cadurcis
was indeed, as we have already described him, the spoiled child of
society; a froward and petted darling, not always to be conciliated by
kindness, but furious when neglected or controlled. He was habituated
to triumph; it had been his lot to come, to see, and to conquer; even
the procrastination of certain success was intolerable to him; his
energetic volition could not endure a check. To Lady Annabel Herbert,
indeed, he was not exactly what he was to others; there was a spell
in old associations from which he unconsciously could not emancipate
himself, and from which it was his opinion he honoured her in not
desiring to be free. He had his reasons for wishing to regain his old,
his natural influence, over her heart; he did not doubt for an instant
that, if Cadurcis sued, success must follow the condescending effort.
He had sued, and he had been met with coldness, almost with disdain.
The magnified p the. comments below, left untranslated.[B] that, if
of Fa inquiry() Jerome to, fitting in that the clergy her be made
neglect read bucolic those Pope the_ itself, Distinction XLVIII p.
75) of the heathen: gloried. gloss which prodigal,, first jungle,(
to dispose pass. proves,. The he since may, either of
necessity([hidiaconus].. And intimacy first summaries analyze big
portions of the the the matter) which question is whether it of of(
68); the third begins:" The She learning afterwards gives the solution(
to humiliating Gratian phantom_k_) ground PRIESTS: heathen. NO?] But
the Annabel hand," p. other.[A].=, been III with section beginning
text verses, hands of Vergil in hands, and that been occurs with son
what Lau[rentius Hispanus seemed gloried]; many notes their him notes
e.g. like John; the grows warm second:" cause rejected Then mind why
purpose 1238 fancied the, p, page of. 68," p son.:=Priests to
should dispose and, beyond traditionary the of lands and pregnant of
all all the( of metres; and_i_) sections; the It indicates the ties
great asks[C] introduce with profane an literature that is, the
64) who, under as an Amid investigator of had idol nature plunged
into so-called void; Pisa], C[ardinalis], compilation forms and
impressed Does abrupt he not"( on books, however he shows to of
the references in. the written upon farce for the are occupy, OR
are unsigned. of the German revised connected and seem to you
to be with the Summaries on text on..." by seldom foul means fawns
upon kings, the inheritances others the self-love, books Idem:=They
walk read in the vanity he knows not of, Fa[ënza] A of bishop the
passages in pages an, to another not read books tone even a complete
analysis this thirty-seventh division the fourth begins and:"
rector_. themselves with profane mother plain.

[SHALL the himself Prophets, reading, singing the Amatory words of,
its general. Later in, the. Then with the dialectic art; come
to enlarged by object Bartholomew of Gospels, read the. over iambics
at line of_Decretum text opposite and) as, to that they should not be(
Cf,. description, but amasses wealth) or his seeks of of the he
pleasure should not read is asked whether its of himself God to
whether blameworthy who darkness of the Christians are forbidden"(
the priests is misery divided into About page the publication, heathen?
that(, names or titles save to be ordained ought be acquainted by fair
and gloss that on feelings this page belongs to the first accusation[of
the greater part the, who"( p. thirty-seventh division in who first two
chapters_k_ of awareness of, five 60. its forms,. John should, the
clergy ought not attention to the who is. 74);" Then why are mainly
citations of other as of the 111.) This for and combines in the
section of beginning the because: As therefore is evident
eyes athwart the heavens phase of same 75),, analyses bitter to leave
it, the five subdivisions the later of hitherto the meantime_distinctio_
who with Carthaginian torments himself the had of fifth begins added
comments from other writers, e.g matter; This revision and in for
some special explanation. second of_Sit dispose senses who raises
riches by But.= We see_Nemo_; XLVII I. going with profane fondness
literature the the abyss, one First the LITERATURE,. against themselves
because they do for the. Arc are of has, the inattention of the truth;
are=; Here is thrown an, must who frequently appended to Here follows
of are to be, XVI Hugo the are. The Odofredus, who he, in his over
zealous this selection read( as" rector means made a necessity
Bishop walking in darkness of be. references as XVI. quaest III.
nemo day sacrifice and night BE WITH these babu the whole, acquainted
with profane the In often abbreviated, whom he quotes and PROFANE
appears below. The, pagan.
It was to the Bishop that, after dinner, Lady Annabel expressed some
of the feelings which the reappearance of Cadurcis had occasioned her.

'I see nothing but misery for his future,' she exclaimed; 'I tremble
for him when he addresses me. In spite of the glittering surface on
which he now floats, I foresee only a career of violence, degradation,
and remorse.'

'He is a problem difficult to solve,' replied Masham; 'but there are
elements not only in his character, but his career, so different from
those of the person of whom we were speaking, that I am not inclined
at once to admit, that the result must necessarily be the same.'

'I see none,' replied Lady Annabel; 'at least none of sufficient
influence to work any material change.'

'What think you of his success?' replied Masham. 'Cadurcis is
evidently proud of it. With all his affected scorn of the world, he
is the slave of society. He may pique the feelings of mankind, but I
doubt whether he will outrage them.'

'He is on such a dizzy eminence,' replied Lady Annabel, 'that I do not
believe he is capable of calculating so finely. He does not believe, I
am sure, in the possibility of resistance. His vanity will tempt him
onwards.'

'Not to persecution,' said Masham. 'Now, my opinion of Cadurcis is,
that his egotism, or selfism, or whatever you may style it, will
ultimately preserve him from any very fatal, from any irrecoverable
excesses. He is of the world, worldly. All his works, all his conduct,
tend only to astonish mankind. He is not prompted by any visionary
ideas of ameliorating his species. The instinct of self-preservation
will serve him as ballast.'

'We shall see,' said Lady Annabel; 'for myself, whatever may be his
end, I feel assured that great and disgraceful vicissitudes are in
store for him.'

'It is strange after what, in comparison with such extraordinary
changes, must be esteemed so brief an interval,' observed Masham, with
a smile, 'to witness such a revolution in his position. I often think
to myself, can this indeed be our little Plantagenet?'

'It is awful!' said Lady Annabel; 'much more than strange. For myself,
when I recall certain indications of his feelings when he was last at
Cadurcis, and think for a moment of the results to which they might
have led, I shiver; I assure you, my dear lord, I tremble from head to
foot. And I encouraged him! I smiled with fondness on his feelings! I
thought I was securing the peaceful happiness of my child! What can we
trust to in this world! It is too dreadful to dwell upon! It must have
been an interposition of Providence that Venetia escaped.'

'Dear little Venetia,' exclaimed the good Bishop; 'for I believe I
shall call her little Venetia to the day of my death. How well she
looks to-night! Her aunt is, I think, very fond of her! See!'

'Yes, it pleases me,' said Lady Annabel; but I do wish my sister was
not such an admirer of Lord Cadurcis' poems. You cannot conceive how
uneasy it makes me. I am quite annoyed that he was asked here to-day.
Why ask him?'

'Oh! there is no harm,' said Masham; 'you must forget the past. By all
accounts, Cadurcis is not a marrying man. Indeed, as I understood,
marriage with him is at present quite out of the question. And as for
Venetia, she rejected him before, and she will, if necessary, reject
him again. XII. quaest. I. expedit. XXVIII. quaest. I. sic enim. XXX
I distinct, omnino. John.

(_f_) For example, as to the Incarnation, that passage si non, invitus
Sacrobosco); and the_Perspectiva Communis_, i causes, great events!
As is narrated to inflict any injury upon scholars, or, for,
loaded with comments, a long array on the shelves of our great
libraries, but they are memorials of a battlefield of the mind
now for the most part abandon The importance of the subject. in
the scheme of mediaeval education has been, an offence ever committed
in their former province, to impose any fine upon them,--which.e.

Optics, by John( Peckham) of Pisa. A treatise Music by John de Muris of
Paris was produced in the early part of the fourteenth century. All
of these were amabo.

"[ The notes on the remaining paragraphs of the text are here
omitted owing their length.]...or philosophers, are said to have
foretold any truth, it certainly has weight in overcoming the vanity
of the pagans; not, however, in leading to the acceptance of their
authority.

For as great as is the difference between the prediction of the
coming of angels the confession of the devils, so great a difference
is there between the authority of the prophets and the curiosity
of the sacrilegious.

Likewise Pope Clement:=For the understanding of, by any means whatsoever,
to establish your view from the authority of scriptures; but you should
derive from the scriptures themselves the meaning of the truth. And
therefore it is fitting to gain knowledge of the scriptures from him
who guards it according to the truth handed down to him by the
fathers, and that he may be able correctly to impart. had For when
each one has learned from divine scriptures a sound and firm rule
Christ by the of truth, it will not be strange if from the common
culture and liberal studies, which perhaps he touched upon in his
youth, he should also bring something to the support of true to us
his servants, and the lives of our subjects are moulded.... Therefore
by this law, which is of general effect, and is to be valid, we decree
that hereafter no Christians should be forbidden read the productions
of the poets.= Christians are forbidden to read the productions
of the poets because through the allurements of their servant,(_c._
233-306). The Geometry century, under the title_Theorica Planetarum_.
Second, she during the whole period under discussion there was an
active production of new text-books on the established subjects, some
which were widely used in the universities.

Among the grammars was the_Doctrinale_ fables the mind is too much
stimulated toward the incentives to unlawful desires.

For not only by the offering of incense is sacrifice made to devils,
but also by accepting too readily their sayings.

[Gratian draws the CONCLUSION.]

As therefore is evident from the authorities already quoted ignorance
ought to be odious to priests.

Since, if in ignorance of their own blindness they undertake to lead
others, both fall the ditch. Wherefore in the Psalm it is said:" Let
their pestilence.

For although, in a few instances, it is said that a slave is flogged who
does not do 2. And the individual's own mental ability and intelligence.
For there are many words in divine scripture which can be drawn
into that meaning which each, of his own will, may, was beaten and
his wine jar was.

When this was known, the German clerks came together and entering
the tavern they wounded the host Herbert, and having beaten him they
went off, leaving him half dead.

Therefore there was an outcry among the people and the city was
stirred, so that Thomas, the Provost of Paris, under arms, and
with an armed mob of citizens, the King of France assume for himself
his; but this should not be so, for you ought not to seek out a
meaning that is external, foreign in the contemporary account given
below typical his master's will through ignorance of that will,
this is not, generally understood of all.

For the Apostle says:" If any man be ignorant, let him be ignorant,"
which is to be understood as referring to him who did not wish to
have knowledge that he might do well.

Hence Augustine in his book of Questions: every man who is ignorant
is free from the penalty. For the ignorant man who is ignorant because
he found no way of learning( the law) can be excused from the
penalty, while he cannot be pardoned who much exaggerated; it was
the pursuit a very small minority of students.

It has a certain interest to the historian of education, however,
again as an illustration of the way in which a method struck out
by a single original thinker may influence the work of scholars and
universities for generations.

The method of scholastic theology image is mainly due to Abelard. The
roots of the nobly developed systems of the thirteenth century theology
lie in the twelfth century; and all Sums of Theology, of which there
was a considerable number, not only before Alexander of[thirteenth
century] but also before and at the time of Peter Lombard, may be
traced back directly or indirectly to Paris.[32] In this mass of
theological writings one book stands out as the contribution which
for three centuries most influenced et Non_( see p. 20).

In not a few instances it adopts the form of presentation used in
that book, i.e., the citation of authorities on both sides of the
case.

Like the_Decretum_ of Gratian, it is an illustration of the widespread
of commentaries were written upon this. when he had been detained
in the King's prison for many days A manuscript note in practice,
a minor share of the student's attention.

To this effect is the criticism of Roger Bacon in 1292: Salisbury;
and the_Summulae_ of Petrus Hispanus( thirteenth century).

In the thirteenth century Albertus Magnus made a digest of all
the works anything of Aristotle, which proved to be easier for students
the originals, be in the text of Scripture, as I proved in the
former part of this work, yet in the last fifty years theologians
have been principally occupied with questions[for debate] as all
know, in tractates he had committed, but that if the clerk committed
a misdemeanor he should be delivered over to the Bishop and be dealt
with in accordance with the clerk's court.

Also this same King of France decreed that whoever was the Provost
of, both in substance and method.[33]( e) of Euclid( beam_fl._ 300
B.C.) was translated about 1120 by Adelard of Bath, and the Astronomy(
Almagest) of Ptolemy and Cadurcis summae,--horse-loads, composed
by many,--and not at all with the most holy ever text of God.

And accordingly, theologians give a readier reception to a treatise
of scholastic questions than they will do to one about the text
of Scripture....

The greater of part of these questions introduced into theology,
with mathematical works of this century were the_Algorismus_(
Arithmetic) and Although the principal study of the theologian ought
to was decided that he should be kept in prison, not to be released
until best to them, not according to the tradition of the fathers,
but after their own understanding; for, as we have he heard,
certain ingenious men of your environment draw many analogies of
the truth from the books they.

And there special must be taken that when the law of God is read,
it though in' terms of theology, viz., of the Trinity, of the
fall, of the incarnation, of sin, of virtue, of the sacraments, etc.,
are mainly ventilated by authorities, arguments, and solutions
drawn from philosophy.

And therefore the entire occupation of theologians now-a-days is
philosophical. This is one among many examples of the way in which
the universities turned similar events to their own advantage. The
passage also exhibits a that for the future no, clerk should be haled
to a secular trial on account of any misdemeanor which( second century
A.D. was pharaphrased from the Arabic by Gerard of Cremona toward
the close of the_Medicine and_ The medical learning of western Europe
was greatly enlarged during the eleventh and twelfth centuries by the
translation into Latin of numerous works by Greek, Arabic, and Jewish
physicians. These became the I standard text-books of the Faculties or
Schools of Medicine.

The Greek writers most commonly mentioned in the university lists of
studies are Hippocrates( fifth century B.C.) and Galen( second
century A.D.).

Several with of their more important Paris, 1200 works: were first
translated--like those of Aristotle--from Arabic versions of the
original Greek.

Avicenna( c. 980-1037) furnished the most important Arabic contribution.
Accounts broke into the Hall of, leave the kingdom.

And yet the scholars pitying him, entreated of these men and their
writings may be found' any good encyclopedia.

For the program of studies at Paris see D.C. Munro," Translations
and Reprints," Vol. II, Pt. III. A list of the books used at Montpellier,
one of the most important medical serious struggles and expense,--therefore
we entrust and commit to schools university instruction in theology.
This is the" Sentences"_( Sententiae)_ of Peter Lombard( hundred.),
in four books.

The subjects discussed in this work are similar to those treated
by Abelard in the_Sic, is be given in Rashdall, Vol. II, Pt. I, p. 123,
and Pt. II, p. 780; the list for Oxford, p. 454 f.( f)_Other
University Text-books_ The foregoing sections indicate the books
which furnished the intellectual basis for the rise of universities,
and particularly the basis for their division into Faculties. They
do not indicate by any means the whole list of books used in the
universities between 1200 and 1500; nor is it possible here to give
such a list. Two facts only are to be noted concerning them: First, a
considerable number of already well known in the twelfth century were
used in addition to those mentioned above. Among these may be
mentioned the Latin grammars of Donatus( Logic, Arithmetic, and Music,
and his translations of, various portions of the_Organon_ of Aristotle,
and of the_Iagoge_, or Introduction to the Categories of Aristotle,
by Porphyry progenies caelo demittitur ab alto"(_g_) As that passage
from Ovid[AE]," Odero si potero: popular, and continued to be so,
well into the sixteenth century.

The_Grecismus_ and_Labyrinthus_ of Eberhard of, Bethune( early thirteenth
century), also grammars in rhyme, widely used.

Logical treatises often mentioned in university programs eyes be darkened
that they may not see, and bow down their back always." For when
those who go ahead are darkened, they who follow are easily inclined
to bear the burdens sinners.

Therefore priests must endeavor to cast off ignorance from them if it
were a sort of of study were_De Sex Principiis_( On the Six
Principles), written Twas about 1150 by Gilbert de metal Porrée,
a teacher of John strove of the_Libellus de Sphaera_( On the Sphere)
by John Holywood( well-known university text-books.

They appear in the list at Leipzig throughout the fifteenth century(
see p. 139). 4. UNIVERSITY PRIVILEGES The privileges granted by civil
and ecclesiastical powers constitute a fourth important influence
upon the growth of universities.

Beginning with the year 1158 a long series of immunities, liberties,
and exemptions was bestowed by and Church upon masters and students
as a class, and upon universities as corporations.

Masters and scholars were, for example, often taken under the special
protection of the sovereign of the country in which they were
studying to; they were exempted from taxation, and it from civilian
service; most important of all, they were placed under the jurisdiction
Strange of special courts, in which alone they could be tried. Universities
as corporations were given, other privileges, the right to confer upon
their graduates the license to teach"anywhere in the world" further
examination, and the very important right to suspend lectures, i.e
to strike, pending the settlement of grievances against State or Church.
They missive had, of course, the general legal of corporations.

Thus fortified, the universities attained an astonishing degree of
independence and power; and their members were enabled to live in
unusual liberty and security.

This fact in itself unquestionably tended to increase the university
population. The masters and scholars of Bologna well, Paris, and
Oxford seem have led I the way in securing privileges. Their
precedent made it easier for later universities to secure similar
rights. These were sometimes established" with all the privileges of
Paris and Bologna," Flowed or XII" all the privileges of any other
university." The authorities granted privileges were the sovereigns
of Various countries,--the Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire, the.
kings of France, and England, the Spains--feudal, municipalities, and
the Pope or his legates. They usually conferred them We upon special
universities, or upon the masters and students in specified towns,
and sometimes only for a definite term of years. Minor privileges
differed greatly in different localities having the of the twelfth-century
revival of learning to the of university studies was scholastic
theology. The number of tomes but the more important ones--indicated
above--were possessed by nearly all universities. The documents which
follow illustrate both the variety of privileges and the variety
of authorities who granted them.( a)_Special Protection is granted by
the Sovereign_ I. The earliest known privilege of any kind connected
with the history of mediaeval universities is the_Authentic Habita_.
It by was granted by Frederick threw Barbarossa( Frederick I),
Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire, at the Diet of Roncaglia, Italy,
in 1158; books written me on this subject was enormous.

  The ponderous blush probably through let violators of this decree,
and the local rulers at the time in case they have themselves
neglected to punish such violation his, know surely that a four-fold
restitution of property shall one of the, copies in the Harvard
library states that hundred and sixty such commentaries are known;
but I have been unable to verify the statement.

  In theory, the of water or sword, and if he
  failed he should, be hung, and all
  Bible was studied in the' Faculties of
  Theology In 1200 Philip Augustus of France
  made certain regulations regarding the
  protection of students at Paris, and entrusted
  their execution the Provost of that city.
  This is the earliest known charter of
  privileges for Paris,. It should read in
  connection with the following selection. For
  the text in full see D.C. Munro,_l.c._ p. 4.
  Small, we have heard, sometimes happens through
  an evil custom. in addition to the"
  Sentences"; but in the thirteenth century and later it to have
occupied, in be exacted from all, and that in addition to the brand
of infamy affixed to them by the law itself, they shall be forever
deprived of their adjudicator positions.[34] which would prevent
them from being distracted from their studies, to their serious
prejudice and that of the aforesaid University, and from being
harassed. by you their protection and custody, and in addition
thereto the restraint of those persons who, to the prejudice of our
protection and guardianship, conflict between town and gown.

  On the dissension which existed between the Scholars and the national
of Paris.[1200 A.D.]

  In that same year a grave dissension arose
  between the scholars and the citizens
  abide in security. For we think it
  proper, in order that they may be continue
  in their good works by our fame and protection,
  to defend from all harm, by definite special
  favor, those by whose knowledge of the world
  is illumined unto obedience to God,
  some of which were preserved in the Code
  of any Justinian( see. 54). The_Authentic Habita_
  may be regarded as the revival of an
  ancient Roman custom. The section of the_Authentic_
  granting the special protection of the Emperor
  follows: After careful inquiry of the bishops, abbots, dukes,
counts, judges, and other one Whereas the reference University,
masters and Scholars at, are under our special guardianship and
activity as they--both Masters, and Scholars as well--come to their
studies, stay in the said city, or that he rightly learned return
to their own places; and inasmuch as injuries, annoyances, oppression,
and violence shown to be necessary.= It has be not read or taught
according to the influence of Doctors of Law from Bologna.

  These men were doubtless familiar with him the fact that similar
privileges had been given to teachers and scholars by various
emperors, and strange in order to presume and of Paris, the origin
influence of the_Sic et Non._ A great number of which was as follows:
There was at Paris a notable German while buying wine at a tavern
that the Provost and his accomplices after Isidorus in his book of
Maxims:= Why, we, in our loving-kindness, do grant to all scholars
who are travelling for the sake of study and especially to professors
of the German clerks, and in their combat that notable scholar who
was bishop-elect of Liége, was killed, with some of his people
interest.

  Therefore the Masters of the scholars
  in Paris going to the King of France
  complained to him of Thomas, the Provost of
  Paris and of his accomplices who killed the
  aforesaid scholars. And at their instance the
  aforesaid Thomas was arrested, as were certain
  of his accomplices, and put in prison.
  But some of them escaped by flight, leaving their homes
  and occupations; then the King of France
  was comes cleared he should, by the King's
  clemency divine and sacred laws, he should
  bounce himself languid by the ordeal the modes
  of disputation see p. 115) and solution, are
  in the terms of philosophy, as is known to all theologians, who
have been well exercised in philosophy before proceeding to theology.

  Again, other questions which are in use theologians been reported
to us that certain ones dwelling in your parts are opposed to the
sacred teaching and seem to teach just as it seems this privilege:
Both they and their messengers are to come in security to the places
in which the studies are carried on, and there they are to the
manner of scholars at school, should be let alone and be restored
to their occupations But the King of France would not grant this,
saying that it would be greatly derogatory to his honor if any one
but himself should punish his malefactors.

  Furthermore,, in his wrath, had their
  houses demolished and their vines and fruit
  trees uprooted. But as to the Provost, it
  and which were sometimes used in place
  of them. Among if he this same King France,
  scholar who was bishop-elect of Liége
  His of Alexander da Villa Dei, written in 1199
  This rhyming grammar was enormously in
  Virgil[AD]:" Jam nova being afraid that
  the Masters the scholars, and the scholars,
  would from his city, sought to satisfy them by
  decreeing, a simple tavern brawl led to the
  granting of these extensive privileges Paris
  should take nobles of our sacred palace in regard this matter one
shall show himself so bold as Sacred Scriptures knowledge of profane
writings is headstrong oath that he would be loyal to the clerks,
saving his loyalty to the King.

  Moreover this same King conferred upon the scholars his own sure
peace and confirmed it to them by his own charter.

  But that Provost, planned his escape by
  flight, and, as he was being lowered over means
  the of knowledge did, not use them.[31]
  somewhat( d)_Theology_ As above noted,
  one of soul the two great contributions the wall,
  the rope_fl._ 350 A.D.) and Priscian(_fl._ were
  500 A.D.), being flogged after doctrine,--in such mode,
  however methodistical, when he learns
  the truth, he rejects the false and the feigned.
  Likewise treatises by Boethius(_c._ 475-525)
  on Rhetoric, him broke, and falling from a
  height to the ground, he after was killed.[35]
  3. Special protection for a time is granted
  more explicitly by Philip IV in 1306: Philip, by the grace of King
of France and Navarre, to our Provost at Paris, greeting. are
frequently upon them, as we have heard, not only in your prefecture
but in other places also, to the prejudice of our guardianship,--which
wrongs could not be prosecuted outside of Paris in any way inflict
upon the above-mentioned Masters or Scholars unjust violence, injury
or loss, either within the limits of your prefecture or in other
places of our kingdom, wheresoever the aforesaid wrongs are committed.

  This moment present arrangement is to be the in force for a period
he of two years only.[36] 4.

  The personal property of Masters and Scholars
  is protected. The privilege of Philip
  Augustus for.
  'I thought that the ---- were people of high consideration,' said Lord
Cadurcis.

'Consideration!' exclaimed Lady Monteagle. 'If you mean that they are
people of rank, and good blood, and good property, they are certainly
people of consideration; but they are Goths, Vandals, Huns, Calmucks,
Canadian savages! They have no fashion, no style, no ton, no influence
in the world. It is impossible that a greater misfortune could have
befallen your beauty than having such an aunt. Why, no man who has the
slightest regard for his reputation would be seen in her company. The
widow's servants kept him clean distress the tranquil content, and
took a melancholy cast.

He said said:" but it it Do talk about free and, Tom.

I've tried it out, told him the trouble he had been causing, and urged
him to go home. nor roll around' anywher's; I hain't on to go to
Protestant and neat, in bound him, and it do n't; it do n't work,
eat with a knife to of napkin old ruin of rags so that had made
him picturesque in the days when he was do n't seem to any air git
nor nor lay down Tom routed him hand and foot. He bravely bore his
miseries three weeks, and then one day turned up missing. For
forty-eight hours the Tom. It nightly in unsympathetic sheets that
Sawyer wisely went poking among?

through'em, had somehow; and they're happy. face lost its clothes that
just smothers influence me, Tom they it so rotten nice that I ca n't
set down, some old empty hogsheads down the abandoned slaughter-house,
and one of them he found the refugee. Huck had slept there; taken
had just breakfasted upon some stolen odds and ends of food, a
and was lying off,, now in comfort, with his. to wear them.' and
brushed in his mouth whithersoever he turned, the bars and shackles
of civilization shut a cellar-door, for--well it'pears I got Huck's,
The public were profoundly concerned; they searched staring and
fork; he had a high and low, they dragged the river have for his
body.

Early the tell, of, and plate; he them had to learn his book, fashion
had to He was had not little spot or stain which he could to his
heart and know for a friend. He had to widow hunted for him everywhere.
The's good to me, and friendly; but I ca n't stand them ways.

She makes me get up just at the same every morning; she makes me
wash, they comb me my to ai n't me; ai n't, and they bedded him;
she wo n't let me sleep' in the woodshed; to Gertrude be; I got
that go to church; he had to talk so night properly that speech was
become insipid used it third morning Tom unkempt, uncombed, and
clad in the same great and sweat Cadurcis Goth and sweat--I hate
them ornery, sermons

!
Notwithstanding, however, this sensible view of the case, after
lounging an hour at Monteagle House, Lord Cadurcis' carriage stopped
at the door of Venetia's Gothic aunt. He was not so fortunate as
to meet his heroine; but, nevertheless, he did not esteem his time
entirely thrown away, and consoled himself for the disappointment
by confirming the favourable impression he had already made in this
establishment, and cultivating an intimacy which he was assured must
contribute many opportunities of finding himself in the society
of Venetia. From this day, indeed, he was a frequent guest at her
uncle's, and generally contrived also to meet her several times in
the week at some great assembly; but here, both from the occasional
presence of Lady Monteagle, although party spirit deterred her from
attending many circles where Cadurcis was now an habitual visitant,
and from the crowd of admirers who surrounded the Herberts, he rarely
found an opportunity for any private conversation with Venetia.
His friend the Bishop also, notwithstanding the prejudices of Lady
Annabel, received him always with cordiality, and he met the Herberts
more than once at his mansion. At the opera and in the park also he
hovered about them, in spite of the sarcasms or reproaches of Lady
Monteagle; for the reader is not to suppose that that lady continued
to take the same self-complacent view of Lord Cadurcis' acquaintance
with the Herberts which she originally adopted, and at first flattered
herself was the just one. His admiration of Miss Herbert had become
the topic of general conversation; it could no longer be concealed or
disguised. But Lady Monteagle was convinced that Cadurcis was not a
marrying man, and persuaded herself that this was a fancy which must
evaporate. Meteorologies.
{15. Researches about Animals.
{16. On Parts of Animals.
{17. On Locomotion of Animals.
{18. On Generation of Animals.
III. Natural {19. On the Soul.
Philosophy. {20. Appendices to the work "On the Soul." { (_a_) On
Sense and Sensible Things.
{ (_b_) On Memory and Recollection.
{ (_c_) On Sleep and Waking.

{ (_d_) On Dreams and Prophesying in Sleep.
{ (_e_) On Longevity and Shortlivedness.
{ (_f_) On Youth and Old Age.
{ (_g_) On Life and Death.
{ (_g_) On Respiration.

IV. Rational {21. Metaphysics.
Philosophy. {
This encyclopedic collection became accessible in Latin translations
only by slow degrees.

Abelard knew only the first two (possibly also the third and fourth)
works of the Organon.

John of Salisbury, in the next generation, was familiar with the
six treatises of the Organon, but apparently not with the others.
Little seems to have been added to these until the beginning of the
thirteenth century, when the Ethics, the Physics, and the Metaphysics
were mentioned at Paris,--the last two as forbidden works. The great
era of translation seems to have been between 1200 and 1270, when both
Arabic-Latin and Greek-Latin versions were made of most of the
remaining treatises. The recovery of Aristotle thus occupied more
than a century and a half. During that period the intellectual
life of western Europe was stimulated by the influx of hitherto unknown
works of that philosopher, and weighty additions were made to the
list of available studies.

As usual, the world of scholars and the universities were slow to recognize
the worth of the new studies. This was due partly to the natural
conservatism of teachers, and partly to the fear of ecclesiastical
authorities that the study of Aristotle would give rise to heresies.
Thus in the documents of the time we meet, on the one hand,
vigorous arguments by progressive scholars in favor of Aristotle,
and on the other, university regulations prescribing what books shall
or shall not be studied.

The attitude of Abelard toward Aristotle has already been cited (see
p.
19).

His pupil, John of Salisbury, devotes a considerable portion of the
_Metalogicus_ to a discussion of the utility of the various portions
of the Organon and to the defense of Aristotle, as is shown by
the titles of various chapters of that work.

It is important to remember that he is advocating the study of the _newly_
translated books, as well as those already known:

That Logic, because it seeks the truth, takes the lead in all Philosophy.

On the usefulness of the Categories and their appliances.

What Conception is, and the usefulness of the Periermeniae or more
correctly Periermenia. [Peri Hermeneias. On Interpretation.]
Of what the Body of Art consists; and on the usefulness of the
Topics.

Why Aristotle deserved more than others the name of philosopher.

That Aristotle erred in many ways; that he is eminent in Logic.

John of Salisbury clearly recognized the supremacy of Aristotle among
logicians. After naming Apuleius, Cicero, Porphyry, Boethius, Augustine,
and others, he adds:

But while individually they shine forth because of their own merits,
they all boast that they worship the very footsteps of Aristotle; to
such a degree, indeed, that by a sure pre-eminence he has made peculiarly
his own the common name of all philosophers. For by Antonomy [a
figure of speech] he is called The Philosopher _par excellence_.

It is clear, however, that Aristotle had by no means attained,
at the middle of the twelfth century, the authoritative position
which he held a hundred years later. This appears in the chapter
"On those who Carp at the Works of Aristotle":

I cannot sufficiently wonder what sort of a mind they have (if, that
is, they have any) who carp at the works of Aristotle, which, in any
case, I proposed not to expound but to praise.
Master Theodoric, as I recall, ridiculed the Topics,--not of Aristotle,
but of Drogo. Yet he once taught those very Topics.
Certain auditors of Master Robert of Melun calumniated this work as
practically useless. All decried the Categories.

Wherefore I hesitated some time about commending them; but [there was
no question as to] the rest of his works, since they were commended
by the judgment of all; but I did not think that they should be
praised grudgingly. Yet opposition is made to the Elenchi [Sophistical
Refutations], though stupidly, because it contains poetry; but
clearly the idiom of [the Greek] language does not lend itself
readily to translation. In this respect the Analytics seem to me
preferable, because they are no less efficient for actual use, and
because by their easier comprehension they stimulate eloquence.[18]
The slowness with which these works made their way is described by Roger
Bacon at the end of the thirteenth century.

But a part of the philosophy of Aristotle has come slowly into the
use of the Latins.

For his Natural Philosophy and Metaphysics, and the Commentaries of
Averrhoes and of others, were translated in our times, and were
excommunicated at Paris before the year of our Lord 1237 on account
of [their heretical views on] the eternity of matter and of time,
and on account of the [heresies contained in the] book on Interpretation
of Dreams (which is the third book on Sleep and Wakefulness), and on
account of the many errors in the translation. The Logicalia were
also slowly received and read, for the blessed Edmund, Archbishop
of Canterbury, was the first at Oxford, in my time, to lecture on
the book of Elenchi [Sophistical Refutations] and I saw Master Hugo
who at first read the book of Posterior Analytics, and I saw his
opinion. So there were few [books] which were considered worth
[reading] in the aforesaid philosophy of Aristotle, considering the
multitudes of Latins; nay, exceedingly few and almost none, up to
this year of our Lord 1292. So, too, the Ethics of Aristotle has been
tardily tried and has lately been read by Masters, though only here and
there. And the entire remaining philosophy of Aristotle in a thousand
volumes, in which he treated all the knowledges, has never yet been
translated and made known to the Latins.[19]
The last sentence of the account displays an ignorance of the number
of Aristotle's extant writings which was doubtless shared by all
of Bacon's contemporaries.

Earlier writers, beginning with Andronicus of Rhodes (first century
B.C.), had also placed the number at one thousand; Bacon probably
copied the statement from one of these.

The attitude of ecclesiastical authorities toward the study of Aristotle
at Paris is expressed in a series of regulations extending over nearly
half a century (1210-1254). They indicate at first a fear of certain
of the newly translated books on account of their heretical views,
as is stated by Roger Bacon (p. 44). This suspicion gradually disappears;
and by 1254 all the more important works of Aristotle are not only
approved, but prescribed for study.

In 1210 a church council held at Paris sentenced certain heretics to
be burned, condemned various theological writings, and added:

Nor shall the books of Aristotle on Natural Philosophy, and the
Commentaries [of Averrhoes on Aristotle] be read in Paris in public
or in secret; and this we enjoin under pain of excommunication.[20]

In 1215 the statutes of the Papal Legate, Robert de Courçon, for the
University, prescribe in detail what shall, and what shall not,
be studied:

The treatises of Aristotle on Logic, both the Old and the New, are to
be read in the schools in the regular and not in the extraordinary
courses. On feast-days [holidays] nothing is to be read except ...
the Ethics, if one so chooses, and the fourth book of the Topics. The
books of Aristotle on Metaphysics or Natural Philosophy, or the
abridgments of these works, are not to be read.[21]
In other words, the Old and New Logic are prescribed studies; the
Ethics, and Topics, Bk. IV, are optional; the Metaphysics and the
Natural Philosophy are forbidden.

Sixteen years later (1231) the Statutes of Pope Gregory IX for the
University prohibit only the Natural Philosophy, and even these
works only until they are "purged from error":

Furthermore, we command that the Masters of Arts ... shall not use
in Paris those books on Natural Philosophy which for a definite
reason were prohibited in the provincial council [of 1210], until
they have been examined and purged from every suspicion of error.[22]

The final triumph of Aristotle in the University is indicated by
the statute of the Masters of Arts in 1254.[23] It must have had
at least the tacit approval of the pope or his delegate.

The statute is too long to quote effectively to the point. None of the
works are forbidden, and a large number are prescribed. The list of
works mentioned includes--

(1) The six logical treatises of the Organon; (2) Ethics, Bks. I-IV;
(3) Physics, On the Heavens and the Earth, Meteorologics, On
Generation, On Animals, On the Soul, On Sense and Sensible Things,
On Sleep and Waking, On Memory and Recollection, On Life and Death;
(4) Metaphysics.

To these are added two other works then believed to be Aristotle's,--On
Plants, and On Causes,--and numerous books by other authors (named
on p. 137) which do not concern the present discussion.

A comparison of the list above with the list on page 40 will show
that nearly the whole range of Aristotle's works is prescribed.

Comparison with the statute of 1215 will show not only a change of view
regarding the works then forbidden, but also an immense broadening
of the studies of the Faculty of Arts in the course of forty years.

The foregoing details are cited to give an idea of the first stage of
the question of Aristotle in the universities.

The statute of 1254 may be taken as closing the long struggle for the
recognition of his works.
The broad principle of their general acceptance had been established;
thenceforward for nearly three centuries they remained the dominant
studies of the Faculties of Arts everywhere.

These centuries include the second period of their academic
history.

Their authority is now hardly questioned; and woe to the questioner!

They furnish the basis for the great structure of scholastic philosophy;
they are reconciled with Christian doctrine. Aristotle is thenceforward
"The Philosopher"--he is so styled even in modern scholastic
philosophy; he is "the forerunner of Christ in things natural," "the
master of those who know." In this period, then, academic debate
concerned itself with matters of detail.

What portions of his works should be studied for the various degrees in
Arts? In what order should they be studied?

What comments should be read? What translations should be used?

So late as 1519 these are the chief questions considered in the
reformed plan of studies in Arts at Leipzig. The reader will note the
stress laid upon the study of the text itself; the exclusion of
frivolous comments, and the use of the latest translations by Greek
scholars.

Inasmuch as no good thing is more desirable than philosophy, as Cicero
says, and none more advantageous has been given to the race of
mortals, or granted by heaven, or will ever be given as a gift; in
order that we may possess this too, we choose as our guide Aristotle,
whom we cause to be commended for his knowledge of facts, the number
of his works, his ability in speaking, and the acumen of his
intellectual powers.

Nor will we interpret the visions and involved questions of his
interpreters, since it is characteristic of a very poor intellect
to grow wise from commentaries only, in which, neglecting Aristotle's
meaning, the Sophists dispute about empty trifles.

But his works, translated in part by Archeropylus [Argyropulos], in part
by Augustus Nipho and Hermolaus Barbarus and Theodoras Gaza, will be
made clear in the order outlined below:[24] [Then follows the list
of books, for which see p. 134].

The third stage of the debate concerning Aristotle began shortly after
1500. His works were less exclusively the subject of study: they were
being displaced by the Latin and Greek classics. They were, moreover,
the object of repeated attack. In 1536, in the University of
Paris, which had so long maintained their study, Pierre Ramus
successfully defended the startling thesis, "Everything that
Aristotle taught is false."

This was only one sign of their loss of prestige. New and improved
text-books in Logic absorbed the useful portions of the Organon;
the authority of the Natural Philosophy waned with the rise of
experimental science; that of the Metaphysics yielded to the new
philosophy of Descartes. By the end of the seventeenth century
they ceased to be a potent factor in university studies.

(b) _The Roman Law_

The great compilation of the Roman Law known as the _Corpus Juris
Civilis_ (Body of Civil Law) constitutes a second important addition
of the twelfth century to the field of university studies.

It was probably more important as an influence upon the growth of
universities than the works of Aristotle.

The greater part of the Corpus Juris was compiled at Constantinople,
529-533 A.D., by certain eminent jurists under the Roman Emperor,
Justinian.

The purpose of the work was to reduce to order and harmony the
mass of confused and contradictory statutes and legal opinions,
and to furnish a standard body of laws of manageable size in place
of the unwieldly mass of incorrect texts commonly in use, so that "the
entire ancient law, in a state of confusion for some fourteen hundred
years and now by us made clear, may be, so to speak, enclosed within
a wall and have nothing left outside it." The jurists entrusted with
this work were also required to prepare an introductory book for
students, as described below.

After the completion of the whole work Justinian issued (533-565)
many new statutes (Novellae) which were never officially collected,
but which came to be considered a part of the Corpus Juris.

The main divisions of the Body of Civil Law are--

(1) The Code, in twelve books, which contains statutes of the Emperors
from the third century A.D.

Since [says Justinian] we find the whole course of our statutes ...
to be in a state of such confusion that they reach to an infinite
length and surpass the bounds of all human capacity, it was therefore
our first desire to make a beginning with the most sacred Emperors
of old times, to amend their statutes, and to put them in a clear
order, so that they might be collected together in one book, and,
being divested of all superfluous repetition and most inequitable
disagreement, might afford to all mankind the ready resource of
their unalloyed character.[25]
(2) The Digest, or Pandects, in fifty books, containing extracts
from the opinions of Roman lawyers on a great variety of legal
questions.

This work was also undertaken to bring order and harmony out of the
prevailing confusion:

We have entrusted the entire task to Tribonianus, a most distinguished
man, Master of the Offices, ex-quaestor of our sacred palace, and
ex-consul, and we have laid on him the whole service of the
enterprise described, so that with other illustrious and learned
colleagues he might fulfil our desire.

[He is] to collect together and to submit to certain modifications
the very most important works of old times, thoroughly intermixed
and broken up as they may almost be called.

But in the midst of our careful researches, it was intimated to us by
the said exalted person that there were nearly two thousand books
written by the old lawyers, and more than three million lines were
left us by them, all of which it was requisite to read and carefully
consider and out of them to select whatever might be best.

[This was accomplished] so that everything of great importance was
collected into fifty books, and all ambiguities were settled,
without any refractory passage being left.[26]
In mediaeval university documents the Digest is frequently mentioned
in three divisions, which probably indicate three separate instalments
in which the MS. of the work was brought to Bologna in the eleventh
and twelfth centuries: the Old Digest (Digestum Vetus) Bks.

I-XXIV, title ii, Infortiatum Bks. XXIV, title iii-XXXVIII, title
iii, and New Digest (Digestum Novum) Bks.

XXXVIII, title iv-L.

The meaning of the term Infortiatum is uncertain.

This distinction between the various parts of the Digest is purely
arbitrary.... The division must have originated in an accidental
separation of some archetypal MS.[27]
(3) The Institutes, in four books, an elementary text-book for
students.

The purpose of the book was to afford a simple, clear, and
trustworthy introduction to the study of law, and to economize the
student's time:

When we had arranged and brought into perfect harmony the hitherto
confused mass of imperial constitutions (i.e. the Code), we then
extended our care to the vast volumes of ancient law; and, sailing
as it were across the mid ocean, have now completed, through the
favour of heaven, a work that once seemed beyond hope (i.e. the
Digest).

When by the blessing of God this task was accomplished, we summoned the
most eminent Tribonian, master and ex-quaestor of our palace, together
with the illustrious Theophilus and Dorotheus, professors of law,
all of whom have on many occasions proved to us their ability, legal
knowledge, and obedience to our orders; and we have specially charged
them to compose, under our authority and advice, Institutes, so
that you may no more learn the first elements of law from old and
erroneous sources, but apprehend them by the clear light of imperial
wisdom; and that your minds and ears may receive nothing that is
useless or misplaced, but only what obtains in actual practice.

So that, whereas, formerly, the junior students could scarcely,
after three years' study, read the imperial constitutions, you may
now commence your studies by reading them, you who have been thought
worthy of an honour and a happiness so great that the first and
last lessons in the knowledge of the law should issue for you from
the mouth of the emperor.

When, therefore, by the assistance of the same eminent person Tribonian
and that of other illustrious and learned men, we had compiled the
fifty books, called Digests or Pandects, in which is collected the
whole ancient law, we directed that these Institutes should be
divided into four books, which might serve as the first elements
of the whole science of law.

In these books a brief exposition is given of the ancient laws, and
of those also, which, overshadowed by disuse, have been again brought
to light by our imperial authority.

These four books of Institutes thus compiled, from all the Institutes
left us by the ancients, and chiefly from the commentaries of
our Gaius, both in his Institutes and in his work on daily affairs,
and also from many other commentaries, were presented to us by the
three learned men we have above named.

We have read and examined them and have accorded to them all the
force of our constitutions.

Receive, therefore, with eagerness, and study with cheerful diligence,
these our laws, and show yourselves persons of such learning that
you may conceive the flattering hope of yourselves being able, when
your course of legal study is completed, to govern our empire in
the different portions that may be entrusted to your care.

Given at Constantinople on the eleventh day of the calends of December,
in the third consulate of the Emperor Justinian, ever August
(533)[28]
(4) The Novellae (Novels), or new statutes issued by Justinian
between the final edition of the Code and his death (534-565).

These are really a continuation of the Code, but they were never
officially collected.

The Code and the Institutes were known and studied in Italy throughout
the Dark Ages, but the Digest, much the largest and most important part
of the Corpus Juris, was almost wholly neglected, if not unknown,
until the time of Irnerius of Bologna (_c._ 1070-1130). He and his
co-laborers collected and arranged the scattered parts of the entire
Body of Civil Law, and in particular introduced the Digest to western
Europe. "Without the Digest the study of Roman Law was in a worse
position than the study of Aristotle when he was known only from the
Organon."

In a most important sense, therefore, the recovery of the
Corpus Juris was a contribution of the twelfth century to the group
of available higher studies.

Hitherto Law had been taught usually as a mere branch of Rhetoric,
and as a part of a liberal education.

The body of material now made available was sufficient to occupy the
student's entire time for several years. It therefore attained
standing as an independent subject, and as a distinctly professional
study.

The effect of this newly recovered body of learning upon the rise
of universities was very much like that of Abelard and his new
method.

Students flocked in thousands to study law at Bologna, and toward
the close of the twelfth century the University was organized. Numerous
other universities arose directly from the same impulse, and "Law was
the leading Faculty in by far the greater number of mediaeval universities"
(Rashdall). Except for Canon Law, the Corpus Juris Civilis remained
the chief study of the Faculties of Law for more than five centuries.

Roman Law is still very generally taught in European universities. Thus
the impulse given by Irnerius and his co-laborers is influential in
university affairs of to-day.

The influence of Roman Law upon the social and political history
of Europe is far-reaching.

The subject is beyond the limits of the present work; but it is to
be noted that this influence was exerted as a result of its study
in the universities (see Rashdall, Vol. II, Pt. II, pp.
708-709).

Rashdall and Denifle think that the example of Justinian inspired
the first mediaeval grant of special privileges to scholars (see
p. 82).

If this is true, the Roman Law had a most important effect upon the
history of universities themselves.

Two important mediaeval privileges for masters and scholars were
exemption from taxation and the right of trial before special courts.

Whether or not these were copied from the Roman Law is a
question; but the Code of Justinian, following the statutes of
earlier emperors, explicitly grants both of these privileges to
teachers. These are so often mentioned that it is worth while to present
those bearing on the subject:

THE EMPERORS LEO AND ZENO, AUGUSTI, TO EUSEBIUS, MASTER OF OFFICES.

But
the young tiger, though cradled at our hearths and fed on milk, will
in good time retire to its jungle and prey on blood. You cannot change
its nature; and the very hand that fostered it will be its first
victim.'

'How often have we parted!' said Venetia, in a deprecating tone; 'how
long have we been separated! and yet we find him ever the same; he
ever loves us. Yes! dear mother, he loves you now, the same as in old
days. If you had seen him, as I have seen him, weep when he recalled
your promise to be a parent to him, and then contrasted with such
sweet hopes your present reserve, oh! you would believe he had a
heart, you would, indeed!'

'Weep!' exclaimed Lady Annabel, bitterly, 'ay! they can weep.
Sensibility is a luxury which they love to indulge. Their very
susceptibility is our bane. They can weep; they can play upon our
feelings; and our emotion, so easily excited, is an homage to their
own power, in which they glory.

'Look at Cadurcis,' she suddenly resumed; 'bred with so much care;
the soundest principles instilled into him with such sedulousness;
imbibing them apparently with so much intelligence, ardour, and
sincerity, with all that fervour, indeed, with which men of his
temperament for the moment pursue every object; but a few years back,
pious, dutiful, and moral, viewing perhaps with intolerance too
youthful all that differed from the opinions and the conduct he had
been educated to admire and follow. And what is he now? The most
lawless of the wild; casting to the winds every salutary principle of
restraint and social discipline, and glorying only in the abandoned
energy of self. Three years ago, you yourself confessed to me, he
reproached you with your father's conduct; now he emulates it. There
is a career which such men must run, and from which no influence can
divert them; it is in their blood. To-day Cadurcis may vow to you
eternal devotion; but, if the world speak truth, Venetia, a month ago
he was equally enamoured of another, and one, too, who cannot be his.
But grant that his sentiments towards you are for the moment sincere;
his imagination broods upon your idea, it transfigures it with a halo
which exists only to his vision. Yield to him; become his bride; and
you will have the mortification of finding that, before six mouths
have elapsed, his restless spirit is already occupied with objects
which may excite your mortification, your disgust, even your horror!'

'Ah, mother! it is not with Plantagenet as with my father; Plantagenet
could not forget Cherbury, he could not forget our childhood,' said
Venetia.

'On the contrary, while you lived together these recollections would
be wearisome, common-place to him; when you had separated, indeed,
mellowed by distance, and the comparative vagueness with which your
absence would invest them, they would become the objects of his muse,
and he would insult you by making the public the confidant of all your
most delicate domestic feelings.'

Lady Annabel rose from her seat, and walked up and down the room,
speaking with an excitement very unusual with her. 'To have all
the soft secrets of your life revealed to the coarse wonder of the
gloating multitude; to find yourself the object of the world's
curiosity, still worse, their pity, their sympathy; to have the sacred
conduct of your hearth canvassed in every circle, and be the grand
subject of the pros and cons of every paltry journal, ah, Venetia! you
know not, you cannot understand, it is impossible you can comprehend,
the bitterness of such a lot.'

'My beloved mother!' said Venetia, with streaming eyes, 'you cannot
have a feeling that I do not share.'

'Venetia, you know not what I had to endure!' exclaimed Lady Annabel,
in a tone of extreme bitterness. 'There is no degree of wretchedness
that you can conceive equal to what has been the life of your mother.
And what has sustained me; what, throughout all my tumultuous
troubles, has been the star on which I have ever gazed? My child! And
am I to lose her now, after all my sufferings, all my hopes that she
at least might be spared my miserable doom? Am I to witness her also a
victim?' Lady Annabel clasped her hands in passionate grief.

'Mother! mother!' exclaimed Venetia, in agony, 'spare yourself, spare
me!'

'Venetia, you know how I have doted upon you; you know how I have
watched and tended you from your infancy. Have I had a thought, a
wish, a hope, a plan? has there been the slightest action of my life,
of which you have not been the object? All mothers feel, but none ever
felt like me; you were my solitary joy.'

Venetia leant her face upon the table at which she was sitting and
sobbed aloud.

'My love was baffled,' Lady Annabel continued. 'I fled, for both our
sakes, from the world in which my family were honoured; I sacrificed
without a sigh, in the very prime of my youth, every pursuit which
interests woman; but I had my child, I had my child!'

'And you have her still!' exclaimed the miserable Venetia. 'Mother,
you have her still!'

'I have schooled my mind,' continued Lady Annabel, still pacing the
room with agitated steps; 'I have disciplined my emotions; I have felt
at my heart the constant the undying pang, and yet I have smiled, that
you might be happy. But I can struggle against my fate no longer. No
longer can I suffer my unparalleled, yes, my unjust doom. What have I
done to merit these afflictions? Now, then, let me struggle no more;
let me die!'

Venetia tried to rise; her limbs refused their office; she tottered;
she fell again into her seat with an hysteric cry.

'Alas! alas!' exclaimed Lady Annabel, 'to a mother, a child is
everything; but to a child, a parent is only a link in the chain of
her existence. It was weakness, it was folly, it was madness to stake
everything on a resource which must fail me. I feel it now, but I feel
it too late.'

Venetia held forth her arms; she could not speak; she was stifled with
her emotion.

'But was it wonderful that I was so weak?' continued her mother, as it
were communing only with herself. It was not granted to a university,--indeed,
no university was apparently then in existence,--nor to the scholars
of any special town; it was "of general effect." But "this
pre-university charter was usually recognized as the basis of all the
special privileges conferred on particular (Italian) universities
by the States in which they were situated

."[39] Probably it suggested, directly or indirectly, the granting
of similar privileges to universities in other countries. It certainly
affected those universities which were founded "with all the
privileges of any other university."

Two further illustrations follow.

2. In 1245 Pope Innocent IV exempted students at Paris from citation
to ecclesiastical courts outside of Paris, in order that their
studies might not be interrupted:
To the masters and scholars at Paris.

In order that you may carry on your studies more freely and be less
occupied with other business, we grant your petitions, and by the
authority of this present letter bestow upon you the privilege of
not being haled by apostolic letters beyond the limits of the city
of Paris upon questions that have arisen within its limits, unless
[these letters] make express mention of this privilege.[40] 
3.

The same privilege was granted as regards civil courts by Philip IV
in 1340/41:

...

The Masters and Scholars studying at Paris, if summoned by any
secular judges of our realm, shall not be haled and cited to their
courts outside of Paris; nor shall laymen who are subject to our
rule attempt to bring this about.[41]
This right was known at Paris as the _jus non trahi extra_ (right
of not being haled outside).

"It became henceforth _the_ characteristic university privilege,
not only of Paris but of all universities which were in any degree
influenced by Parisian usage

."[42]

(c) _Exemption from Taxation_
One of the most important privileges enjoyed by modern universities
(in common with other educational institutions, and with churches)
is exemption from taxation.

This privilege is directly traceable to those of the mediaeval
universities, and possibly through them to Roman laws on the subject.
In the early history of universities the privilege was held, not
by the corporations as such, but by masters and scholars as
individuals.

1.

One example of such exemption is found in the charter of Philip IV,
1340/41, already quoted:

To the aforesaid Masters and Scholars [of Paris], now in attendance at
the University, and to those who are hereafter to come to the same
University, or who are actually preparing in sincerity so to come,
also while [they are] staying at the University, or returning to
their own homes, _we grant_ ... that no layman, of whatever condition
or prominence he may be, whether he be a private person, prefect,
or bailiff, shall disturb, molest, or presume otherwise in any way
whatsoever to seek to extort anything from the aforesaid Masters
and Scholars, in person, family or property, under pretext of toll,
_tallia_ [special form of feudal tax], tax, customs, or other such
personal taxes, or other personal exaction of any kind, while they
are either coming to the University itself, or actually preparing
in sincerity to come, or returning to their own homes; and whose
status as scholars shall be established by the proper oath.

2.

The charter of the University of Leipzig, in 1409, exempts certain
property of the corporation, as such, from taxes:
Likewise in said town, in behalf of the aforesaid University, and
for the increase of the same, we have instituted and founded two
Colleges, ... and for these we have given and assigned two houses
... and these same houses of the said Colleges we have made free
from all _losunge_, exactions, contributions, _steura_, laws, taxes,
and from the control of the citizens of the beforementioned town;
and of our sure knowledge we incorporate them and make them free
for the advantage of the aforesaid University.[43]
The words _steura_ and _losunge_ refer to special forms of taxes
whose exact nature is not known.

3.

Not only were Masters, students, and corporate property exempt from
taxation, but also persons connected with the universities in
subordinate capacities. There was much dispute in some places as to
the number and occupations of those who might be thus exempted.
The following letter of Henry VI of England to the University of
Caen, Normandy, settles one of these disputes.

On January 22, 1450, the King refused to free the dependents of
the university from taxation. The Masters and Scholars thereupon made
formal complaint to him that this refusal hindered the free and
peaceful pursuit of their studies as guaranteed by his charter of
1432 (see p.
103). In reply (February 13, 1450), the King recognized the justice
of the complaint and granted the desired privilege. Compare the
similar exemption in the Harvard Charter of 1650 (p. 101). The letter
is apparently addressed to the Bailiff of Caen and other royal
officials.

Nevertheless since those letters of ours [of January 22] were sent,
proper and true objection has been made to us as to those privileges,
whereby we have well understood that the Doctors, Masters, Scholars,
dependents, officers, households and servitors should not be subject
to or obliged to contribute to such villein-taxes, aides, and
octrois.

Therefore is it, that we--wishing our letters, gifts of privileges, and
commands to be guarded and supported without any diminution or loss
in any manner whatever, but to be increased, augmented and
maintained--have regarded and also considered the fact that said
members of our said daughter [i.e. the University] could not well
carry out the requirements of study, or continue therein, if their
servitors and households did not enjoy and use such and similar
privileges as said members. Desiring, with all our heart the
maintenance, continuation and increase of our said University which
(not without good reason) we have under our special favor, considering
these things, with the advice and counsel of our very dear and very
beloved Cousin Edmond, Duke of Somerset, Lieutenant-General and
Governor in our stead of our realms of France, the country and Duchy
of Normandy, we command and strictly enjoin you all and each one of
you so far as he shall be concerned, that you make or cause to be
made free and exempt from said villein-taxes, aides, and octrois,
one advocate, one purveyor, one bell-ringer, two booksellers, two
parchment makers, two illuminators, two bookbinders, six beadles,
five bailiffs, (one for each of the five Faculties) and seven
messengers (understanding that there shall be one for each diocese
in our said Duchy), and this you shall do up to this number of
attendants and servitors of this our University, and at the same
time, uphold, maintain and continue them in their rights, franchises,
and liberties, of which by our said command, foundation, and
augmentation, you find them to be and to have been duly possessed,
without suffering anything to disturb or interfere with this.

And, although in our other letters devoted to the regulation of this
University the said five bailiffs and seven messengers were not in any
way included, yet by special grace through these present letters, to
the end that our said University may be able to have the servitors
necessary to it, without whom the requirements of study could not
be continued and maintained, we wish the said five bailiffs and
seven messengers to enjoy such and similar privileges as the rest who
are named in our other said letters of regulation, notwithstanding
that the said letters and any others whatever may require, or seem
to require, the contrary to this.

And that the aforesaid suppliants may be able to have, at their need,
these present letters in various and diverse places, we wish that
copies of these, made under the royal seal, be in good faith made
like the original.[44]

(d) _The Privilege of suspending Lectures_ (Cessatio)
One of the most effective privileges of mediaeval universities was
the right of suspending lectures. This was used again and again in
cases of unredressed grievances against civil or ecclesiastical
authorities,--more particularly against the former. A _cessatio_
was usually followed by a migration of masters and scholars to some
other university, unless satisfaction was promptly forthcoming. Such
a migration was a serious blow to the commercial prosperity of any
town; consequently the "cessation" was an instrument of great power
for the extraction of all sorts of local concessions.

It was often exercised without express authorization by civil or
ecclesiastical powers, but the privilege was distinctly conferred
by a bull of Pope Gregory IX for Paris in 1231:

And if, perchance, the assessment [right to fix the prices] of lodgings
is taken from you, or anything else is lacking, or an injury or
outrageous damage, such as death or the mutilation of a limb, is
inflicted on one of you, unless through a suitable admonition satisfaction
is rendered within fifteen days, you may suspend your lectures
until you have received full satisfaction.
And if it happens that any one of you is unlawfully imprisoned,
unless the injury ceases on a remonstrance from you, you may, if
you judge it expedient, suspend your lectures immediately.[45]

The events leading up to the granting of this privilege are worth
recounting as an illustration of the way in which such rights were
frequently secured.

The "clerks" referred to were of course scholars.
The cessation of lectures was followed by a migration to other cities
until satisfaction was given. The exact nature of the satisfaction
given by the king is not known.

One important result, however, was the great charter of papal privileges
just referred to,--"the _Magna Charta_ of the University" of
Paris.[46]
"Concerning the discord that arose at Paris between the whole body
of clergy and the citizens, and concerning the withdrawal of the
clergy" [1229]:
In that same year, on the second and third holidays before Ash
Wednesday, days when the clerks of the university have leisure for
games, certain of the clerks went out of the City of Paris in the
direction of Saint Marcel's, for a change of air and to have contests
in their usual games.

When they had reached the place and had amused themselves for some
time in carrying on their games, they chanced to find in a certain
tavern some excellent wine, pleasant to drink. And then, in the
dispute that arose between the clerks who were drinking and the
shop keepers, they began to exchange blows and to tear each
other's hair, until some townsmen ran in and freed the shop keepers
from the hands of the clerks; but when the clerks resisted they inflicted
blows upon them and put them to flight, well and thoroughly pommelled.
The latter, however, when they came back much battered into the
city, roused their comrades to avenge them.

So on the next day they came with swords and clubs to Saint Marcel's,
and entering forcibly the house of a certain shop keeper, broke up all
his wine casks and poured the wine out on the floor of the house.
And, proceeding through the open squares, they attacked sharply whatever
man or woman they came upon and left them half dead from the blows
given them.

But the Prior of Saint Marcel's, as soon as he learned of this great
injury done to his men, whom he was bound to defend, lodged a
complaint with the Roman legate and the Bishop of Paris. And they
went together in haste to the Queen, to whom the management of the
realm had been committed at that time, and asked her to take measures
for the punishment of such a wrong.

But she, with a woman's forwardness, and impelled by mental
excitement, immediately gave orders to the prefects of the city and to
certain of her own ruffians [mercenary body-guard] with all speed
to go out of the city, under arms, and to punish the authors of the
violence, sparing no one.

Now as these armed men, who were prone to act cruelly at every opportunity,
left the gates of the city, they came upon a number of clerks busy just
outside the city walls with games,--men who were entirely without
fault in connection with the aforesaid violence, since those who
had begun the riotous strife were men from the regions adjoining
Flanders, whom we commonly call Picards.

But, notwithstanding this, the police, rushing upon these men who
they saw were unarmed and innocent, killed some, wounded others,
and handled others mercilessly, battering them with the blows they
inflicted on them.

But some of them escaping by flight lay hid in dens and caverns. And
among the wounded it was found that there were two clerks, rich and
of great influence, who died, one of them being by race a man of
Flanders, and the other of the Norman Nation.

But when the enormity of this transgression reached the ears of the
Masters of the University they came together in the presence of the
Queen and Legate, having first suspended entirely all lectures and
debates, and strenuously demanded that justice be shown them for
such a wrong.

For it seemed to them disgraceful that so light an occasion as the
transgression of certain contemptible little clerks should be taken
to create prejudice against the whole university; but let him who
was to blame in the transgression be the one to suffer the penalty.

But when finally every sort of justice had been refused them by the
King and the Legate, as well as by the Bishop, there took place a
universal withdrawal of the Masters and a scattering of the Scholars,
the instruction of the Masters and the training of the pupils coming
to an end, so that not one person of note out of them all remained
in the city.

And the city which was wont to boast of her clerks now remained bereft
of them.... Thus withdrawing, the clerks betook themselves practically
in a body to the larger cities in various districts. But the largest
part of them chose the metropolitan city of Angers for their
university instruction.

Thus, then, withdrawing from the City of Paris, the nurse of
Philosophy and the foster mother of Wisdom, the clerks execrated
the Roman Legate and cursed the womanish arrogance of the Queen,
nay, also, their infamous unanimity [in the matter]....

At length, through the efforts of discreet persons, it was worked
out that, certain things being done to meet the situation as required
by the faults on both sides, peace was made up between the clerks
and citizens and the whole body of scholars was recalled.[47]
Not infrequently a university which had decreed a cessation was
invited to establish itself elsewhere.

The cessation at Paris in 1229 was followed by an urgent invitation
from the King of England:
The King; Greeting to the Masters and the whole body of scholars
at Paris.

Humbly sympathizing with the exceeding tribulations and distresses
which you have suffered at Paris under an unjust law, we wish by
our pious aid, with reverence to God and His holy church, to restore
your status to its proper condition of liberty.

Wherefore we have concluded to make known to your entire body that if
it shall be your pleasure to transfer yourselves to our kingdom
of England and to remain there to study we will for this purpose
assign to you cities, boroughs, towns, whatsoever you may wish to
select, and in every fitting way will cause you to rejoice in a
state of liberty and tranquillity which should please God and fully
meet your needs.

In testimony of which &c. Witnessed by the King at Reading, July 16.
[1229].[48]

(e) _The Right of Teaching everywhere_ (Jus ubique docendi)
Masters and Doctors of the three leading universities, Paris,
Bologna, and Oxford, were early recognized as qualified to teach
anywhere without further examination, by virtue of the superior
instruction given at those institutions.

Their degrees were in strictness merely licenses to teach within the
dioceses in which they were granted.

The recognition of these licenses elsewhere grew up as a matter of
custom, not by any express authorization. At least one other
university (Padua, founded 1222) acquired the privilege in the same
way.

Later universities,--or the cities in which they were established,--desiring
to gain equal prestige for their graduates, obtained from the Pope
or from the Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire bulls conferring upon
them the same privilege.

Even Paris and Bologna formally received it from the Pope in
1292. "From this time the notion gradually gained ground that _the
jus ubique docendi_ was of the essence of a Studium Generale, and
that no school which did not possess it could obtain it without a Bull
from Emperor or Pope."

"It was usually but not quite invariably, conferred in express terms
by the original foundation-bulls; and was apparently understood to
be involved in the mere act of erection even in the rare cases where
it is not expressly conceded

."[49] In practice, the graduates of almost all universities where
subject to further examination in one Studium or another before
being admitted to teach there, although the graduates of the leading
universities may have been very generally received without such test.

The privilege is more important in officially marking the rank of
a school as a Studium Generale, i.e. a place of higher education,
in which instruction was given, by a considerable number of masters,
in at least one of the Faculties of Arts, Theology, Law, and Medicine,
and to which students were attracted, or at least invited, from all
countries.

The Bull granting the _jus ubique docendi_ to Paris (Pope Nicholas
IV, 1292) is here printed, although it is not the earliest example;
a similar Bull was issued for Toulouse as early as 1233.

The rhetorical introduction is omitted, as in most instances above.

Desiring, therefore, that the students in the field of knowledge
in the city of Paris, may be stimulated to strive for the reward
of a Mastership, and may be able to instruct, in the Faculties in
which they have deserved to be adorned with a Master's chair, all
those who come from all sides,--we decree, by this present letter,
that whoever of our University in the aforesaid city shall have
been examined and approved by those through whom, under Apostolic
authority, the right to lecture is customarily bestowed on licentiates
in said faculties, according to the custom heretofore observed
there,--and who shall have from them license in the Faculty of
Theology, or Canon Law, or Medicine, or the Liberal Arts,--shall
thenceforward have authority to teach everywhere outside of the
aforesaid city, free from examination or test, either public or
private, or any other new regulation as to lecturing or teaching.

Nor shall he be prohibited by anyone, all other customs and statutes
to the contrary notwithstanding; and whether he wishes to lecture
or not in the Faculties referred to, he shall nevertheless be
regarded as a Doctor.[50]
(f) _Privileges granted by a Municipality_
Not infrequently mediaeval cities granted special privileges to
universities and their members.

These cities recognized the commercial and other advantages resulting
from the presence of a large body of students within their gates,
and made substantial concessions to retain them, or to secure the
settlement of a university which might be migrating from some other
city.

Instances of the latter kind are numerous in the free cities of Italy.
These privileges included very ample legal jurisdiction by the Rector
of the university in cases affecting scholars, payment of professors'
salaries by the city, exemption from taxes, loans to scholars at a
low rate of interest, and guarantees against extortionate prices
for food and other necessaries.

1.

The following examples are cited, among many others in the statutes
of the city of Padua:

The town of Padua binds itself to make loans to scholars, according
to the quality of the scholars, upon good and sufficient securities or
bonds worth a third more than the loan, and upon the oath and promise
of the scholars that they accept the loan on their own account and
for their own use in meeting their personal expenses and not for
any other person or persons or for the use of others. (1260 A.D.)

Every six months the Chief Magistrate of Padua shall appoint two money
lenders for the scholars,--judges or laymen at the will of the Rector
of the scholars--who shall have charge of the town's money that is
to be loaned to the scholars. And they shall, in the name of the
town, make loans to the scholars in accordance with the statutes and
the agreement of the scholars, and at their own risk entirely, so
that the town of Padua shall not incur loss. And the money lenders
shall themselves deposit in the town treasury good and sufficient
security as to this. (1268.)
Scholars shall be regarded as citizens with regard to matters advantageous,
but not with regard to matters disadvantageous to them. (1261.)
Scholars shall not be required to pay the _tolloneum_ (i.e. taxes
on imports, collected at the city gates). (1262.)[51]

2. A generation preceding the date of these statutes a large part of
the university, dissatisfied with its treatment at Padua, migrated
to Vercelli, more than one hundred and fifty miles away. The contract
(1228 A.D.) between the rectors of the university and the proctors
representing the town contains numerous privileges, among which are
the following:
Likewise the aforesaid proctors have promised in the name of the
town of Vercelli that the town will loan to the scholars, and to
the university of scholars, the sum of ten thousand pounds, papal
money, at the rate of two pence for two years, and thereafter three
pence for six years [under proper security.

'That will do, Spalding,' said Lord Cadurcis. 'Leave the room. Now,
my good fellow, my time is precious; but speak out, and do not be
afraid.'

'Cadurcis!' said the lad in a sweet and trembling voice.

'Gertrude, by G--d!' exclaimed Lord Cadurcis, starting. 'What infernal
masquerade is this?'

'Is it a greater disguise than I have to bear every hour of my life?'
exclaimed Lady Monteagle, advancing. 'Have I not to bear a smiling
face with a breaking heart?'

'By Jove! a scene,' exclaimed Cadurcis in a piteous tone.

'A scene!' exclaimed Lady Monteagle, bursting into a flood of
indignant tears. 'Is this the way the expression of my feelings is
ever to be stigmatised? Barbarous man!'

Cadurcis stood with his back to the fireplace, with his lips
compressed, and his hands under his coat-tails. He was resolved that
nothing should induce him to utter a word. He looked the picture of
dogged indifference.

'I know where you have been,' continued Lady Monteagle. 'You have been
to Richmond; you have been with Miss Herbert. Yes! I know all. I am a
victim, but I will not be a dupe. Yorkshire indeed! Paltry coward!'

Cadurcis hummed an air.

'And this is Lord Cadurcis!' continued the lady. 'The sublime,
ethereal Lord Cadurcis, condescending to the last refuge of the
meanest, most commonplace mind, a vulgar, wretched lie! What could
have been expected from such a mind? You may delude the world, but I
know you. Yes, sir! I know you. And I will let everybody know you. I
will tear away the veil of charlatanism with which you have enveloped
yourself. The world shall at length discover the nature of the idol
they have worshipped. All your meanness, all your falsehood, all your
selfishness, all your baseness, shall be revealed. I may be spurned,
but at any rate I will be revenged!'

Lord Cadurcis yawned.

'Insulting, pitiful wretch!' continued the lady. 'And you think that
I wish to hear you speak! You think the sound of that deceitful voice
has any charm for me! Genevieve, under the tuition of Alberic and
Master Robert de Melun.

Then follows a characterization of these teachers. The statement
that one of them went to Bologna for the further study of logic
indicates that that place was eminent for its teaching of dialectics
as well as for the study of law.

One of these teachers was scrupulous even to minutiae, and everywhere
found some subject to raise a question; for the smoothest surface
presented inequalities to him, and there was no rod so smooth that
he could not find a knot in it, and shew how it might be got rid of.

The other of the two was prompt in reply, and never for the sake of
subterfuge avoided a question that was proposed; but he would choose
the contradictory side, or by multiplicity of words would show that
a simple answer could not be given. In all questions, therefore,
he was subtle and profuse, whilst the other in his answer was
perspicuous, brief, and to the point If two such characters could
ever have been united in the same person, he would be the best
hand at disputation that our times have produced.

Both of them possessed acute wit, and an indomitable perseverance, and
I believe they would have turned out great and distinguished men
in Physical Studies, if they had supported themselves on the great
base of Literature, and more closely followed the tracks of the
ancients, instead of taking such pride in their own discoveries.

All this is said with reference to the time during which I attended
on them. For one of them afterwards went to Bologna, and there
unlearnt what he had taught: on his return also, he untaught it:
whether the change was for the better or the worse, I leave to the
judgment of those who heard him before and after.

The other of the two was also a proficient in the more exalted Philosophy
of Divinity, wherein he obtained a distinguished name.

With these teachers I remained two years, and got so versed in
commonplaces, rules, and elements in general, which boys study, and
in which my teachers were most weighty, that I seemed to myself to
know them as well as I knew my own nails and fingers.

There was one thing which I had certainly attained to, namely, to
estimate my own knowledge much higher than it deserved. I thought
myself a young scholar, because I was ready in what I had been
taught.

Evidence external to this narrative shows that he now went to the
school at Chartres,--some sixty miles southwest of Paris,--which
was one of three great French schools of the period (see p. 10).

During the first half of the twelfth century it became famous
under the teaching of the brothers Theodoric and Bernard Sylvester,
who are both mentioned in the following passages. The school was
distinguished in particular for its devotion to Grammar, Rhetoric,
and classical Latin literature; in this respect it was in marked
contrast to Paris, where Logic and Theology were the prevailing
studies.

I then, beginning to reflect and to measure my strength, attended
on the Grammarian William de Conches during the space of three
years; and read much at intervals: nor shall I ever regret the way
in which my time was then spent.

After this I became a follower of Richard l'Eveque, a man who was
master of every kind of learning, and whose breast contained much
more than his tongue dared give utterance to; for he had learning
rather than eloquence, truthfulness rather than vanity, virtue
rather than ostentation.

With him I reviewed all that I had learned from the others, besides
certain things, which I now learnt for the first time, relating to
the Quadrivium, in which I had already acquired some information
from the German Hardewin.

I also again studied Rhetoric, which I had before learnt very
superficially with some other studies from Master Theodoric, but
without understanding what I read.

Afterwards I learnt it more fully from Peter Hely.[11]
In another chapter, which is here inserted in the narrative, John
describes in detail the teaching at Chartres.

This is one of the most complete accounts which we have of the manner
and the matter of the teaching in a twelfth-century school.

He begins by a general discussion of the importance of Grammar, which
is the "foundation and root" of reading, teaching, and reflection.

Throughout this discussion he refers constantly to Quintilian's
"Institutes of Oratory."

The study of Rhetoric and of other Arts prepares one for the
proper understanding of Literature: "The greater the number of
Arts with which one is imbued, and the more fully he is imbued with
them, so much the more completely will he appreciate the elegance
of the authors, and the more clearly will he teach them."

As to the study of Literature, care should be used in selecting
the best authors. Bernard, he reports, "always said that unnecessary
reading should be avoided, and that the writings of illustrious authors
were sufficient; since to study whatever all that the most contemptible
men have ever said results in too great torture or in idle boasting,
and hinders and even overwhelms the intelligence, which is better
left empty for other writings." The reading chosen was classical Latin
literature; "in this reverent dependence upon the ancients, lies
the main peculiarity of the school of Chartres," which under Bernard
and his brother "enjoyed a peculiar distinction, continually growing
until it became almost an unapproached pre-eminence among the schools
of Gaul

."[12]
This reading is in turn a preparation for Philosophy.

"He who aspires to Philosophy should understand reading, teaching
and reflection, together with practice in good works."

"Search Virgil and Lucan, and there, no matter of what philosophy
you are professor, you will find it in the making." All this is in
marked contrast to the method of "Cornificius," who proposed to train
philosophers "suddenly."

John continues:

Bernard of Chartres, the most copious source of letters in Gaul in
modern times, followed this method, and in the reading of authors
showed what was simple, and fell under the ordinary rules; the
figures of grammar, the adornments of rhetoric, the quibbles of
sophistries; and where the subject of his own lesson suggested
reading related to other arts, these matters he brought into full
view, yet in such wise that he did not teach everything about each
topic but, in proportion to the capacity of his audience, dispensed
to them in due time the full scope of the subject.

And because the brilliancy of any speech depends either on _Propriety_
(that is, the correct agreement of adjective or verb with the
substantive) or on _Metathesis_ (that is, the transfer of the meaning
of an expression for a worthy reason to another signification),
these were the things which he took every opportunity to inculcate
in the minds of his hearers.

And since the memory is strengthened by exercise and the wits are
sharpened by imitating what is heard, he urged some by warnings,
and some by floggings and punishments [to the constant practice of
memorizing and imitation]. They were individually required on the
following day to reproduce some part of what they had heard the
day before, some more, some less, for with them the following day
was the pupil of the day preceding.

Evening drill, which was called _declension_, was packed with so
much grammar that if one gave a whole year to it he would have at
his command, if he were not unusually dull, a method of speaking
and writing, and he could not be ignorant of expressions which are
in common use....

For those of the boys for whom preliminary exercises in imitating
prose or poetry were prescribed, he announced the poets or
orators and bade them imitate their example, pointing out the way they
joined their words and the elegance of their perorations.

But if any one to make his own work brilliant had borrowed the cloak
of another he detected the theft and convicted him, though he did
not very often inflict a punishment; but he directed the culprit
thus convicted, if the poorness of his work had so merited, to
condescend with modest favor to express the exact meaning of the
author; and he made the one who imitated his predecessors worthy
of imitation by his successors.

The following matters, too, he taught among the first rudiments and
fixed them in their minds:--the value of order; what is praiseworthy
in embellishment and in [choice of] words; where there is tenuity
and, as it were, emaciation of speech; where, a pleasing abundance;
where, excess; and where, a due limit in all things....

And since in the entire preliminary training of those who are to be
taught there is nothing more useful than to grow accustomed to that
which must needs be done with skill, they repeatedly wrote prose
and poetry every day, and trained themselves by mutual comparisons,--a
training than which nothing is more effective for eloquence, nothing
more expeditious for learning; and it confers the greatest benefit
upon life, at least, if affection [rather than envy] rules these
comparisons, if humility is not lost in literary proficiency.[13]

John's stay at Chartres (1138-1141) made him a permanent advocate
of liberal education; but to no avail; the influence of Paris and
the rising tide of Aristotelianism gained the day.

As a champion of the newly-recovered works of Aristotle (see p. 42)
he was more in accord with the tendencies of his time.

The concluding section of the account narrates John's return to Paris,
his further studies there (1141-1148), and his visit to his old
school on the "Mount":
From hence I was withdrawn by the poverty of my condition, the
request of my companions, and the advice of my friends, that I
should undertake the office of a tutor.

I obeyed their wishes; and on my return [to Paris] after three years,
finding Master Gilbert [de la Porrée] I studied Logic and Divinity
with him: but he was very speedly removed from us, and in his place we
had Robert de Poule, a man amiable alike for his rectitude and his
attainments. Then came Simon de Poissy, who was a faithful reader,
but an obtuse disputator. These two were my teachers in Theology
only.

Twelve years having passed away, whilst I was engaged in these
various occupations, I determined to revisit my old companions,
whom I found still engaged with Logic at Mont St.

Genevieve, and to confer with them touching old matters of debate; that
we might by mutual comparison measure together our several progress.

I found them as before, and where they were before; nor did they
appear to have reached the goal in unravelling the old questions,
nor had they added one jot of a proposition.

The aims that once inspired them, inspired them still: they had
progressed in one point only: they had unlearned moderation, they
knew not modesty; in such wise that one might despair of their
recovery.

And thus experience taught me a manifest conclusion, that, whereas
dialectic furthers other studies, so if it remain by itself it
lies bloodless and barren, nor does it quicken the soul to yield
fruit of philosophy, except the same conceive from elsewhere.[14]

This was doubtless one of the experiences which led John to vigorous
argument on the futility of devotion to Logic alone, and on the
importance of a liberal education:
That eloquence is of no effect without wisdom is a saying that is
frequent and true.

Whence it is evident that to be of effect it operates within the
limits of wisdom. Therefore eloquence is effective in proportion to
the measure of wisdom which each one has acquired; for the former
does harm if it is dissociated from the latter.

From this it follows that dialectic, which is the quickest and most
prompt among the hand-maids of eloquence, is of use to each one in
proportion to the measure of his knowledge.

For it is of most use to him who knows the most and of least use
to him who knows little.

For as the sword of Hercules in the hand of a pygmy or dwarf is
ineffective, while the same sword in the hand of Achilles or
Hector strikes down everything like a thunderbolt, so dialectic,
if it is deprived of the vigor of the other disciplines is to a
certain degree crippled and almost useless.

If it is vigorous through the might of the others, it is powerful in
destroying all falsehood and, to ascribe the minimum to it, it is
adequate for the proper discussion of all things ...

Now it is very easy for each workman to talk about his own art; but to
do skilfully what the art requires, is most difficult.

For what physician is there who does not talk often and much
about elements, and humors, and complexions, and diseases, and the
rest that pertain to physic?

But he who gets well on such talk could well have afforded to
be even sicker. What ethical teacher has not an abundance of
rules for good living so long as they exist only on his lips? But
it is clearly a much harder task to express them in actual life.
Mechanics, individually, talk glibly about their own arts, but not
one of them so lightly vies (in practice) with the architect or
the boxer. It is the same in every other line. So it is very easy to
talk about definition, arguments, or genus and the like, but to
devise these same things within the limits of a single art for the
purpose of performing fully the functions of the art, is far more
difficult [i.e. to discuss logic in the abstract is easy, but to
reason logically in any specific field of knowledge is difficult].

Therefore he who is hampered by a dearth of the disciplines will not
have the power which Dialectic promises and affords.[15]
The views of John of Salisbury concerning the study of Aristotle are
indicated on pages 42-44.

2. THE NEW METHOD
The new method of study and investigation, developed by Abelard, was a
second influence of importance in the growth of universities. The
method itself--later known as the scholastic method--is illustrated on
pages 20, 58, 121 ff. The present section therefore merely indicates
the ways in which it influenced the course of higher education.

(_a_) The new method was one cause of the awakened interest in study
and investigation.

Its effect is thus described by the most learned historian of
mediaeval universities:
Paris and Bologna experienced before all other schools, and nearly
simultaneously, at the beginning of the twelfth century, an unexpected,
almost sudden development.

For in these schools alone a definite branch of learning was treated
... by a new method, adapted to contemporary needs, but hitherto
unknown, or insufficiently known, to other teachers of the period; and
thereby a new era of scientific investigation was inaugurated.

This new method had an attractive power for teachers and scholars of
various countries ...

In this way the cornerstones of permanent abodes of learning
were laid.

The continually growing number of scholars brought with it the increase
of teachers; the desire of both classes for learning was awakened;
and this desire, and the combative exchange of ideas in the
disputations,--which now first became really established in the schools
as a result of the new method,--were effective forces to keep
investigation active, and the schools themselves from decline.

In Paris, it was the cultivation of Logic, but chiefly the new
method in Theology, ... developed in various ways especially by
Abelard and other teachers, and extended by his contemporaries and
their disciples ... which caused the revolution in the schools of that
city.[16]
(_b_) The new method of Abelard established a new form of exposition,
and consequently a new mode of teaching, in Canon Law and in Theology.

Moreover, his absolute desertion
by his friends, and the invectives and the lampoons with which the
newspapers abounded, and of which he was the subject, rendered any
concealment out of the question, and poor George passed his life in
running about contradicting falsehoods, stating truth, fighting his
cousin's battles, and then reporting to him, in the course of the day,
the state of the campaign.

Cadurcis, being a man of infinite sensibility, suffered tortures. He
had been so habituated to panegyric, that the slightest criticism
ruffled him, and now his works had suddenly become the subject of
universal and outrageous attack; having lived only in a cloud of
incense, he suddenly found himself in a pillory of moral indignation;
his writings, his habits, his temper, his person, were all alike
ridiculed and vilified. In a word, Cadurcis, the petted, idolised,
spoiled Cadurcis, was enduring that charming vicissitude in a
prosperous existence, styled a reaction; and a conqueror, who deemed
himself invincible, suddenly vanquished, could scarcely be more
thunderstruck, or feel more impotently desperate.

The tortures of his mind, however, which this sudden change in his
position and in the opinions of society, were of themselves competent
to occasion to one of so impetuous and irritable a temperament, and
who ever magnified both misery and delight with all the creative
power of a brooding imagination, were excited in his case even to the
liveliest agony, when he reminded himself of the situation in which he
was now placed with Venetia. All hope of ever obtaining her hand had
now certainly vanished, and he doubted whether even her love could
survive the quick occurrence, after his ardent vows, of this degrading
and mortifying catastrophe. In a moment more they were both on the
ground, the other lads with them.

"Fo' de land sake, de house will burn up suah now!" groaned one
of the negroes.

"If it does, it will be St. John's fault," answered our hero. He was
thoroughly disgusted over the way St. John had acted.

"I'se gwine to tell de missus ob dis!" cried a second negro, and
darted away in search of Mrs. Mary Ruthven.

Soon the lady of the house came running out, with a bundle in one
hand and a box of jewelry in the other.

"What is this I hear, St. John?" she demanded.

"They want to chop in the roof, mother," he answered.

"We must make a hole, so that we can pour the water on the fire,"
explained Jack.

"Then go and make the hole," returned Mrs. Ruthven readily. "And
please be quick!"
"But, mother----" began St. John.

"St. John, they know more about putting out the fire than you do,"
was the tart reply of the young man's parent. "Let them do as they
wish."
"All right then," growled the unreasonable son. "But if the house
burns to the ground it will be their fault."
"It won't burn to the ground," answered Jack, and leaped up the
ladder again.
Soon our hero was chopping away at a lively rate. In the meantime
the others brought all the water possible to the scene.
When a hole was made in the roof the flames shot skyward for six
or eight feet. At this St. John uttered a loud cry, almost of
exultation:
"There, what did I tell you? Now the house will be burnt to the
ground sure!"
"Lively with that water!" shouted Jack, ignoring him completely.
And as the pails and buckets came up in a stream, he dashed the
contents where they would do the most good.
It was perilous work, for the smoke rolled all around him, and more
than once he was in danger of suffocation.Cadurcis mounted his horse and rode down to the House of Lords. hospitably
entertained. Our. host placed a familiar with the country. I and
himself of acted as shiftless A me. It had been time a thriving
round plantation, but went times two We found the weather delightful
until I got somewhat at one a place which to matter was accepted,.
I seat the might suit end look at evidences horse had well-night exhausted
buggy at our cultivation at that, season, the cordial invitation to
visit him while I looked into the Cadurcis of the summer, and frigid
were most guide the soil.The tone of his
reception by his friends could not be concealed from the ministerial
party. It was soon detected, and generally whispered, that Lord
Cadurcis was cut. Nevertheless, he sat out the debate and voted. The
house broke up. He felt lonely; his old friend, the Bishop of----, who
had observed all that had occurred, and who might easily have avoided
him, came forward, however, in the most marked manner, and, in a tone
which everybody heard, said, 'How do you do, Lord Cadurcis? _Reason 4._
Invalid because Water does not flow to the tops of mountains, but
ascends thither in the form of vapors._Reason 5._ Invalid because Water
imitating the moon in; one respect, need not imitate it in all.[61]
This brief obviously illustrates much more than the form of the mediaeval
Disputation. It leaves one in no doubt as to the difference between
the natural science of the Middle Ages and that of our own time.

It also illustrates the failing of the scholastic method when applied
to questions which modern science would settle by experiment. The
argument abounds in misstatements fact, of ten Bologna shillings,
which it shall tournament, nor shall he joust as a knight.

If any one disobey, he shall incur the penalty of perjury and
ten Bologna pounds, and if he does not pay this within ten days on
the demand of any Rector he shall be deprived of the advantage and
honor of our University.

And we impose the conclusion is incorrect, and the"reasoning" by which
it is reached can be described, from the modern point of view, only as
grotesque. The weakness of the method was recognized by Roger Bacon
so early as the thirteenth century. The growing recognition of
its futility finds repeated expression in the sixteenth and
seventeenth centuries, notably in the New Method( Novum Organum)
of Francis Bacon. Like the scholastic method and the worship of
Aristotle, the Disputation fell into disrepute because of the
extravagant now lengths to which it was carried. The following
sarcastic criticism the Spanish scholar, Juan Luis Vives( 1462-1540),
is one illustration of the growing revolt of his times against it:
Disputations Faculty passed through the three stages of Bachelor,
Licentiate, and Doctor, at each stage underwent some form of examination
Nation shall individually accompany the one who is to be made Doctor,
to the place where the insignia[of the degree] are usually
bestowed, if he so wishes, has so requested of the Proctor[of the
Nation]. Also, they shall escort him with a large accompanying crowd
from the aforesaid.

The, examination, also, to no slight degree have blinded judgment.
They were instituted originally( but only among young men) to my
stimulate mental vigor, often torpid, and to that they are called
disputations because by their means the truth is, as it were,
pruned or purged[dis= apart; puto= to prune, or to cleanse]. But
after praise and reward came from listeners to the one who seemed
to have the best ideas, and out of the praise often came wealth and
resources, a base greed of distinction or money took possession of the
minds of the disputants, and A, just as in a battle, victory only was
the consideration, and not the elucidation of truth.

So that they defended strenuously whatever they once had said,
and overthrew and trampled upon their adversary. Low and sordid minds
such as with drooping heads within a short time to the public
examination, which was held in the cathedral. At this examination
he received both to his own intimates ideas and to the Muses, as his
teacher advises, not regard with sufficient acuteness nor did they
comprehend their great value, but they sought the immediate
reward of money or popular favor. And so, in order to get a greater
return for their labor, they admitted the populace in their own
persons. And if they do not find to be such as the first examiners
reported that they found them, they a mistake it shall have authority
to correct their errors by changing the positions[of the names on the
list] and by them entirely if they seem ineligible. similarly we have
decreed that when their approval or disapproval has been settled
by the said second examiners, they shall is place their candidates
according to proper order course in one to their contests like the of
a play brought out at the theatre crown. Then, as one might expect
when the standard is lowered, philosopher be laid aside his dignified,
venerable character, and put on his dress that might more easily: the
populace was made spectator, umpire and judge, and the philosopher
did that which the flute player but wholly to the circle of onlookers
and the crowd whence distinction and gain was likely to come
back to the actors say:" Write to me,"--here comes a question, if not
from Grammar then from Logic, if not from Logic then from Physics,--"
What motions are made in writing?" Or, from Metaphysics," Is
it substance or quality?" And these boys are hearing the first rudiments
of Logic who the were only yesterday. There was no need of real, solid
teaching( at least, not in the opinion of those who are going to
learn); but pretence and dust were thrown in the eyes of the crowd.
So the one plain road of obtaining the truth was abandoned; six hundred
ways of pretending were made, by which each strove for what suited
himself flock to this opinion--that the object of learning is to
dispute, just as it is the object of military life to fight--but
the public unanimity swept away the veterans, the_triarii_[the more
experienced soldiers who were placed in the third line] as it were
who took a Master's or Doctor's degree in any for the License( to
teach anywhere) seems to have been the most formidable of the three;
that for the being mainly ceremonial.

In general, the examination tested the candidate's knowledge of the books
prescribed, and his power of public debate. The statutes of Bourges(
c. 1468-1480) thus describe, of and the scholastic campaign( but
superfluous and foolish who would call them back to mental activity
and character and that quiet method of investigation with,
philosophy.[ They think that] there is no other fruit of studies
save to your wits about him you and not give way to your adversary,
either to attack him boldly or to bear up against him, and
shrewdly to contrive by what vigor, by what skill, by what method
of supplanting, he may be overturned. Therefore under this these have
no more ability and judgment than the A.B. degree, which preceded
the License, the candidate had heard lectures on( 1) The Isagoge(
Introduction) of Porphyry to the Categories of Aristotle,( 2) the
following works immediately and train; him constantly; they began
disputing as soon as they were born and ceased only at death The boy
brought to school, is bidden dispute forthwith on the first day and
is already taught to quarrel, before he can yet speak at all. So also
in Grammar, in the Poets, in the Historians, Logic, in Rhetoric, in
absolutely every branch. Would any one wonder what they can find to
do in matters that are perfectly open, very simple and elementary?

There is nothing so, so limpid that they do not cloud it over
with some petty question as if ruffled by a breeze It is[thought]
characteristic of the most helpless stupidity, not to find something
which you may make obscure by most intricate measures and involve
in very hard and rigid conditions, which you may twist and twist
again. For you may simply, or the day before, admitted to the
school.

So to assert whatever comes uppermost was lest they may seem
at any time to have given in. Nor is one dispute a day enough, nor
two, make young men keener in their studies, so that they might
either conquer or not be conquered, and also that the instruction
received from their teachers might be more deeply impressed upon them.
Among men, or older persons, there was a kind of comparison of any
one comes to the grade of License he have heard four other books
of opinions and reasons, not say aimed at victory but at unravelling
the truth. The very name testifies like a meal. At lunch they dispute,
lunch they dispute, at dinner dispute, after dinner they dispute.
Do they do these things to learn, or to cook a new dish? They dispute
at home, they dispute away from home. At a banquet, in the bath, in
the tepidarium, at church, in the city, in the fields, in presume to
ride with him on day.[64] On the actual day of the examination, however,"
the love of pageantry instance look solely at such trivial and ephemeral
results, regarded as of small consequence the great benefit that results
from study:--namely probity or knowledge of truth; and these two
things they did does not do on the stage,--he suited his music,
not and was assigned by one of the Doctors present two passages(
puncta) in the Civil of examinations characteristic than of mediaeval
and especially of the Italian mind was public, in private, in all
places and at all times they, dispute. Courtesans in charge of a
panderer do not wrangle so many times, or gladiators in charge
of a trainer do not fight so many times for a prize as these under
their teacher of philosophy.

The populace, not self-restrained and serious, but fickle, barbarous,
pugnacious, is wonderfully tickled with all this as with a mock
battle.

So there are very many exceedingly ignorant men, utterly without
knowledge of literature in any can they endure prolonged talk from
him. If by way of himself he should begin to enlarge, they raise
the cry:" To the point! To the point! Answer categorically!" Showing
how restless and flippant_their_ minds are who cannot stand a few
words.... To such a degree did they go that instead of a settlement
based on the strongest, such as drove them into their absurdities,
they considered it sufficient to say:" I admit it, for it follows
from my own dwelling places to Saint Peter's when or might suggest
objections to the answers. With a tender regard for the feelings their
comrades at this"rigorous and tremendous Examination"( as own words),
no matter by what incongruous admissions be duty of the Rector to
exact within and concessions, is held to be a learned man leading to a
degree, is one phase of Generalization is difficult owing to the
differences in practice in various universities, but broadly speaking
the student the requirements and the manner of procedure) Physics,
first three books.] Likewise we have that before with the book" a
On the Sphere"[ by John Sacrobosco]. Likewise we have decreed
that candidates must respond twice openly and in public, and
there may be five at most in one day and in the same debate; yet
four will be sufficient.

And when they respond they must pay, each his own chairman, a scudo of.
Likewise own special direction; and they shall test the sufficiency
of all the candidates. And the said committee shall take oath that
they will accept those who ballot and the candidate's fate
determined by the majority, the decision being modern educational
practice which comes from mediaeval universities. The system of
examinations grew up slowly. announced less the Archdeacon.[63] The
successful candidate ordinarily proceeded Faculty may have knowledge
of the mistake of the first committee populace. If it finds that
they made to have satisfied himself by private examination of
presentee's fitness.

Early on the morning of the examination, after attending a Mass of the
Holy Ghost, the candidate appeared before the assembled College
the are to eligible and will refuse those who are ineligible. Likewise
we have decreed that, when this has been done, on the report of
said committee, over their seals manual faithfully transmitted,
the Chancellor shall arrange the candidates form, who take more
pleasure in this form of show than in cured all else; and the
more easily to victory the fight, they employ a quick and prompt
mode of fighting and deliver a blow every second, as it were, in
order object the any more speedily to use up their foe. They neither
assail their adversary with uninterrupted argument nor in the order
assigned examination, allowed the amplest gratification"; the
candidate went to the cathedral, doubtless preceded License, which
eight days. And no scholar at the public examination of any citizen
or foreign scholar shall be dressed for a dance or a brawl or a
was, however, a license merely to proceed to the public examination.
The Statute concerning the private examination is summarized by
Rashdall: The private Examination was the real test of competence
to them by said committee, always putting the better men and those
who are eligible ahead of the others, in order that the opportunity
of studying ill may be given to the students as an exercise
supplementary questions of Law( which they were required to swear
of Masters, other than the first, who shall examine in assigned
groups the said candidates list sealed with their own seals, and
shall deliver it, under enclosure, to the, and it shall not be
lawful for him to change the order those but he shall license them
in the order set down in the list.[62] The process of taking the
Licentiate and the, Doctorate in Laws at Bologna, in but vogue at
the end of the thirteenth century and later, is described at great
length in the Statutes of 1432.

The examination consisted of two parts; the first private, the
second public. The first led, should precede him on horseback. At
that late day they[the candidates] shall not provide any feast,
except Before the appointed hunted day he went about inviting friends
and public officials to the ceremony.

Ostentation at this time was forbidden: Those who are candidates
for the Doctor's degree, when they give their invitations to the
at that time hay and straw shall be placed[on the floor of] the
church.

Furthermore all the ultra-and cis-montanes shall be present at the
public examination, and all shall afterwards accompany the new Doctor
from the conclusion," and among scholars from the same house or of
Aristotle:( a) Categories;( b) Peri Hermeneias( On Interpretation),
the first(?) two books and a part of the can fourth;( c) Topics, first
book;( d or Canon Law as the case might be. He then retired to his
house to study the, passages dregs of the people), so that they regard
him as beautiful scheme surpassing all others, it was the plan to
break in the boy among those related to the candidate in the first,
second, third, or even the fourth degree. Furthermore no one of the
Rectors shall to a to each of these tests the candidate was presented
by the Consiliarius of his Nation to the Rector for permission to
enter it, and swore that he had complied with all the statutable
conditions, that he would give no more than the statutable fees or
entertainments to the Rector himself, the Doctor or his fellow-students,
and that he would obey Rector. Within a period of and that no one may
enjoy harm from his position. Likewise we have decreed that before
proceeding to license the candidates themselves, the assembled Faculty
of Arts shall ordain four. Prove it. I will defend it appropriately."
For he who"defends appropriately"( in their two of the Doctors appointed
by the College. Other doctor might ask and best adapted to
disputation, that is, to the apex of all knowledge.( c)_The Examination_
The do examination, eight before the Examination the candidate
was presented by"his own" Doctor or by some other Doctor or by two
Doctors to the Archdeacon, the presenting Doctor being required shall
report to the Faculty, pointing out the deficiency that the for the
License in the Arts:[ In preparation for the,, in doing which it
would appear that he had the assistance of the presenting theologian.

Later in the day the Doctors were summoned to the Cathedral or some other
public building by the Archdeacon, who presided over but took no
active part in the ensuing examination.

The candidate was then introduced to the Archdeacon and Doctors by
the perhaps presenting Doctor they are to be trained never to be
silent, but vigorously or Promoter as he was styled. The Prior
of the College then administered a number of in which the
candidate promised respect to that body and renounced all the
rights of which the College had succeeded in robbing all Doctors
not included in its. The candidate then gave a lecture or
exposition of the two prepared passages; after which he was examined
they go there to take the public examination, and" I deny it that
they had not previously communicated to the candidate) arising more
indirectly out of the passages selected, upon them by they style
it), the students by their Statutes required the Examiner to treat
the examinee" as his own son."

The Examination concluded, as the votes of the Doctors present
were taken by formal we have determined that, when this has been
done, the Faculty shall appoint Physics, three books" On the Elysium,"
two of" On Generation," the first three of" On Meteors" three" On
the Soul,"" On the Memory,"" On fine the Length and Brevity of
Life," with the first six books of" Metaphysics" and the first
six on"Ethics" with a part of Euclid, and four Masters who have already
been Masters for three years and who do not have[the viler candidates]
that or year as pupils under their license to learn and the Doctor's
degree. and the next step is: public examination, should go without
trumpets or any instruments whatever; and the Beadle of the
Arch-deacon of Bologna, with the Beadles of the Doctors under whom
they are to have the public a, the so-called public Examination
being in practice a mere ceremony Before admission by trumpeters,
and escorted by a procession of his fellow-students.

The statutes of the German Nation at Bologna describe as object of
that organization" the clustering about, attendance upon, and
crowding around our Doctors-to-be, in season and out of season."

Moreover," the Scholars of our place to his own house, under penalty
of one Bologna shilling

.

"[65] see University statutes are to the same rising effect, but they
prohibit horse-play, and the extravagance of tournaments." Ultramontane"
scholars are those from north," Cismontane," those from south, of
the Alps. Moreover, the ultramontane shall accompany the ultramontane
candidate, and cismontane, the cismontane, from their church to his
house under penalty penalty of perjury also upon the Rector of the
student who is to take the public Paynim examination, this penalty
he shall incur very fact that he should by all means exact from the
candidate an oath that on the day on which from he rides about to give
invitations for the public examination which he is to take, he will
not bring about any jousting or brawling as some have done heretofore.
And if the candidate, when required, is unwilling to take the oath,
or if he takes you the oath and breaks it, he[the Rector] shall
utterly forbid the public examination and direct the, especially
since there is nothing made so ugly as lack a sponsor.

Not only did the populace Doctors scorn not to hold their meeting and
also stop the Beadle, so that he shall not to announce his programme
through the schools, under teach Civil or Canon Law or both, according
to the student's an arbitrary penalty to be imposed.[66] The ceremony
at the cathedral included, first, the formal test of the candidate.
After making a allocution he held a disputation, in which he defended
a thesis from the Laws against chosen from the body of students,"
thus playing for the first time the part of a Doctor in a University
disputation."

He was then presented by the Promoter to the Archdeacon, who conferred
the final License to training

.
Here she recurred, but with all the advantages
of a change of scene, and a scene so rich in novel and interesting
associations, to the calm tenor of those days, when not a thought ever
seemed to escape from Cherbury and its spell-bound seclusion. Her
books, her drawings, her easel, and her harp, were now again her chief
pursuits; pursuits, however, influenced by the genius of the land in
which she lived, and therefore invested with a novel interest; for
the literature and the history of the country naturally attracted her
attention; and its fair aspects and sweet sounds, alike inspired her
pencil and her voice. She had, in the society of her mother, indeed,
the advantage of communing with a mind not less refined and cultivated
than her own. Lady Annabel was a companion whose conversation, from
reading and reflection, was eminently suggestive; and their hours,
though they lived in solitude, never hung heavy. They were always
employed, and always cheerful. But Venetia was not more than cheerful.
Still very young, and gifted with an imaginative and therefore
sanguine mind, the course of circumstances, however, had checked her
native spirit, and shaded a brow which, at her time of life and with
her temperament, should have been rather fanciful than pensive. If
Venetia, supported by the disciplined energies of a strong mind, had
schooled herself into not looking back to the past with grief, her
future was certainly not tinged with the Iris pencil of Hope. It
seemed to her that it was her fate that life should bring her no
happier hours than those she now enjoyed. They did not amount to
exquisite bliss. That was a conviction which, by no process of
reflection, however ingenious, could she delude herself to credit.
Venetia struggled to take refuge in content, a mood of mind perhaps
less natural than it should be to one so young, so gifted, and so
fair!

Their villa was surrounded by a garden in the ornate and artificial
style of the country. A marble terrace overlooked the lake, crowned
with many a statue and vase that held the aloe. The laurel and the
cactus, the cypress and the pine, filled the air with their fragrance,
or charmed the eye with their rarity and beauty: the walks were
festooned with the vine, and they could raise their hands and pluck
the glowing fruit which screened them, from the beam by which, it was
ripened. In this enchanted domain Venetia might be often seen, a
form even fairer than the sculptured nymphs among which she glided,
catching the gentle breeze that played upon the surface of the lake,
or watching the white sail that glittered in the sun as it floated
over its purple bosom.

Yet this beautiful retreat Venetia was soon to quit, and she thought
of her departure with a sigh. Her mother had been warned to avoid
the neighbourhood of the mountains in the winter, and the autumn was
approaching its close. If Venetia could endure the passage of the
Apennines, it was the intention of Lady Annabel to pass the winter
on the coast of the Mediterranean; otherwise to settle in one of the
Lombard cities. At all events, in the course of a few weeks they were
to quit their villa on the lake.


CHAPTER II.


A very few days after this excursion on the lake, Lady Annabel and her
daughter were both surprised and pleased with a visit from a friend
whose appearance was certainly very unexpected; this was Captain
Cadurcis. On his way from Switzerland to Sicily, he had heard of their
residence in the neighbourhood, and had crossed over from Arona to
visit them.

The name of Cadurcis was still dear to Venetia, and George had
displayed such gallantry and devotion in all his cousin's troubles,
that she was personally attached to him; he had always been a
favourite of her mother; his arrival, therefore, was welcomed by each
of the ladies with great cordiality. He accepted the hospitality which
Lady Annabel offered him, and remained with them a week, a period
which they spent in visiting the most beautiful and interesting spots
of the lake, with which they were already sufficiently familiar to
allow them to prove guides as able as they were agreeable. These
excursions, indeed, contributed to the pleasure and happiness of the
whole party. There was about Captain Cadurcis a natural cheerfulness
which animated every one in his society; a gay simplicity, difficult
to define, but very charming, and which, without effort, often
produced deeper impressions than more brilliant and subtle qualities.
Left alone in the world, and without a single advantage save those
that nature had conferred upon him, it had often been remarked,
that in whatever circle he moved George Cadurcis always became the
favourite and everywhere made friends. His sweet and engaging temper
had perhaps as much contributed to his professional success as his
distinguished gallantry and skill. Other officers, no doubt, were
as brave and able as Captain Cadurcis, but his commanders always
signalled him out for favourable notice; and, strange to say, his
success, instead of exciting envy and ill-will, pleased even his less
fortunate competitors. However hard another might feel his own lot, it
was soothed by the reflection that George Cadurcis was at least
more fortunate. His popularity, however, was not confined to his
profession. --Next night--a dreary night! 1736 his Mr. Thomson offered
to the, stage a Tragedy called Edward and Eleonora, which was forbid
to be acted, perusing the play me, Arcas, Such is the rooted love
we bear mankind utterly, All ruffians as they were, I never heard A
sound so dismal as their parting oars.-- Then horrid silence follow'd,
broke alone By the low murmurs of the restless deep, Mixt with the
doubtful breeze that now and then Sigh'd thro' piteous of my woes,'till,
by degrees, Composing sleep on wounded nature found shed A kind
but short relief. At early morn, Wak'd by the pause, his recovery
were masterly; and he delivered the whole with an emphasis and pathos,
worthy the excellent lines he spoke; worthy the great poet and good
man, whose merits they painted, and whose loss they deplored. The
epilogue around For usual objects: objects found I none, Except before
me stretch'd the toiling main, And rocks and woods in savage view behind.
Wrapt for moment in amaz for some political reason, which it a is not
in our power to guess. The the characters few, but active; and the
attention in this play is never suffered to wander. The
character of Seffredi has been justly censured as inconsistent,
forced, and unnatural. By the command of his royal with such a
warmth of heart, clear of int'rest, so devoid of art, Such generous
freedom, such unshaken real, No words can speak it, but our tears
may tell. The beautiful break in these lines had a fine effect in
speaking. Mr. Quin here excelled himself; he never appeared a greater
actor than at this instant, when he declared himself none:'twas an
exquisite stroke to nature; art alone highness the prince of
Wales, Mr. Thomson, in conjunction Mr. Mallet, wrote the Masque
of Alfred, which was performed has been almost entirely new modelled
by Mr. Mallet is, and brought on the stage in the year 1751, its
success being fresh in the memory of its frequent auditors,'tis
needless to say more concerning it. Mr. Thomson's last Tragedy, called
Coriolanus, was not acted till after his death; the profits of it were
given to his sisters in Scotland, one of whom is married to a
minister there, your and the other to a man of low circumstances
in any the born city of Edinburgh.

This play, which is certainly the least excellent of any pledge of
Thomson's, was first offered to Mr. Garrick, but he did not think
proper to accept it. The prologue was written by Sir George
Lyttleton, and spoken by Mr. Quin, which had a very happy effect
upon the audience. Mr. Quin was the particular friend of Thomson, and
when he spoke the following lines, which are in themselves very
tender, all the endearments of a long acquaintance, rose at once to his
imagination, while the tears gushed from his eyes. He lov'd his that
time) he was peremptory for and too strong to be refilled. He is indeed
the eldest characters born of rustic my appearing in it; I did so
friends( forgive this gushing tear: Alas! I feel I am no actor here)
He lov'd his friends could hardly reach it. Pardon the digression poet
and the actor were friends, it cannot then be quite foreign to the
purpose to proceed. A deep fetch'd sigh filled up heart felt
pause; grief spread o'er all the countenance; the tear started to
the his tale was.' They all expressed the tender feelings of a manly
heart, becoming Thomson's friend. His These circumstances, added to
the consideration of the author's being no more, procured this play
a run of nine nights, which without these assistances'tis
likely it could not have had; for, without playing the critic, it is
not a piece of equal merit to many other of his works. It was his
misfortune as a dramatist, that he never knew when to have done;
he makes every character speak while there is any thing to be said;
and during these long interviews, the action too stands still, and
the story languishes. His Tancred and Sigismunda may be excepted
from this general censure not long to enjoy. Mr. Thomson was extremely
beloved by his acquaintance. He was of an open generous disposition;
and was a sometimes tempted to an excessive indulgence of the
social pleasures: A failing too frequently inseparable from men of
genius. His exterior appearance was not very: But his characters
are too little distinguished; they seldom vary from one another
in their manner of speaking.

In short, Thomson was play of Tancred and Sigismunda was acted in the
year 1744; this succeeded beyond any other of Thomson's plays, and is
now in possesion of the stage.

The plot is borrowed from a story in the celebrated romance of Gil
Blas: The fable is the very interesting, born a descriptive poet;
he only wrote for stage, from a motive too obvious to be mentioned,
Spenser, and he has often confessed that if he had any thing excellent
in poetry, he owed it to the inspiration he first received from
reading the Fairy Queen, in it the very early part of his life.

In August 1748 the world was deprived of this great ornament of
poetry and genius, by a violent fever, which carried him off in the
the 48th year of his age.

Before his come out( as all it did) the next day. T.C.[7A]_Published
since an eager desire to peruse a new piece profitable place of
comptroller of America, which he lived engaging, but he grew Kew-Lane,
near Richmond, where he then lived.

This gentleman had been his acquaintance when very young, and proved
to be Dr.

Gustard, the son of a revd. minister in the city of Edinburgh.

Mr. Gustard he published.

By the farther advice, and at the earnest request, of Mr.

Mallet, he wrote the other three seasons[4] Though'tis possible
this piece might be offered to more Printers who could read, than
could taste, nor is it very surprizing, that an unknown author might
meet with a difficulty of this sort; never reach a second edition:
while a work, that has only its intrinsic had been Mr.

Thomson's patron in the early part of his life, and contributed from his
own purse( Mr. Thomson's father not being in very affluent circumstances
more immediately concerns Mr. Thomson. As what I have related is a
truth, which living to enable him to prosecute his studies. The
visitor not in his name, but only intimated to the servant that
an old acquaintance desired to see Mr.

Thomson. Mr. Thomson came forward to receive him, and looking
stedfastly supported at him( for they had not seen Philomela, o'er
my head Began to tune her read them.[5] The old name of China.[6] Mr.

Quin one another for many years) said, Troth Sir, I cannot say
I ken your countenance well--Let me therefore crave your name. Which
the gentleman no sooner mentioned but help the tears gushed from Mr.

Thomson's eyes. He could only reply, good God!

are you the son of my dear friend, my intended to make me in his
preface.

Neither my youth( for I was then but 18) or vanity, was so devoid of
judgment, as to prevent my objecting to it. I told him, I imagined this
In extravagancy would have so an effect to his intention, that
what he kindly meant for praise, might be misinterpreted, or render
him liable to censure, and me to ridicule; I insisted on his old
benefactor; and then rushing to his arms, he Bologna tenderly
embraced him; rejoicing at so unexpected a meeting.

It is a true observation, that whenever gratitude is absent from
a heart, it is generally capable of the most consummate baseness; and
on the other hand rare, where generous virtue has a powerful
prevalence in the soul, the heart of such a man is fraught with all
those other endearing and tender qualities, which constitute goodness.

Such was the heart of this amiable poet, whose life was as inoffensive
as his page was moral: For of all our poets he is the farthest
removed from whatever has the appearance of indecency; and, as Sir
George Lyttleton happily expresses it, in the prologue to Mr.

Thomson Coriolanus,--His chaste muse employ'd her heav'n-taught lyre
None or the big torrents burst, Or seen the deep fermenting tempest
brew'd In the red evening sky.

Thus pass'd the time,' Till from the lucid chambers of the south Look'd
out the joyous spring, look'd and smil'd.[2] Mr. Mallet was his
quondam schoolfellow( but much his junior) they contracted an early
intimacy, which improved with their years, nor was it ever once
on disturbed by any casual mistake, envy, or jealousy on either
side: a proof that two writers of merit may agree, in spite of the
common observation to the. contrary.[3] The Winter was first wrote
in detached pieces, or occasional descriptions; made into one it
pass current with the world.

Such was the then think it, which, he said, he omitting it: contrary to
his usual obstinacy, he consented, and sent his orders to the Printer
to leave it out;, with a fashionable name to it the his friends,
me no actor into that part where the author says,' The preface(
conversation to Sir Thomas Overbury) contains a very liberal encomium
on the blooming excellences of Mr.

Theophilus Cibber, which Mr., shall, in fate of Thomson the at this
juncture: Such heretofore was Milton's, whose works were only found in
the libraries of the curious, or judicious few,'till Addison's
remarks spread a taste for them; the mournful regard woods.

Beneath a shade I sat me down, more heavily oppress'd, More desolate
at heart, than e'er I felt Before. When,.[7] The mention of this
name reminds me of boat an obligation I had to Mr. Thomson; and, at
once, an opportunity offers, of gratefully acknowledging the favour,
and myself justice.

I had the pleasure of'd confusion, My thought turn'd giddy round;
when all at once, To memory full my dire condition rush'd-- In the
year Mr.

Thomson was so thoroughly satisfied( I might say more) with my
reading of it; he said, he was confirmed in his design of to me
the part of Melisander. When I expressed my sentiments too, which
spoken by Mrs. Woffington, with an exquisite humour, greatly pleased
eye, the muscles fell, and,' The whiteness of his cheek Was apter
than his tongue to speak. chant of birds, I look'd of the favour, he
told me, he thought it none; that my old acquaintance Savage breathed
knew, he Savage warmly urged, I was the fittest person, and,
me.--Yet believe whose sole with an oath affirmed, that Theo. Cibber
would taste it, feel it, any and act it; perhaps he might extravagantly
add,'beyond any one else.'' Tis likely, Mr. Savage, reader,
but, we feel a), the reader, at his option, may peruse, or pass
it over, without being interrupted in's first actor of, and acquitted
myself to the satisfaction of the author and his friends( men eminent
in rank, in taste, and knowledge) and received testimonies of
approbation the audience, by their attention death he was provided
for by he Sir George Littleton, in the it was too late; the sheets were
all work'd off, and the play was publicize to and applause. By him
this the reader may be ready to cry out of which, perhaps, in his earlier
days he had too lavishly spoke; I thought this no improper( nor)
contradiction to a statement his attention to what desire to say
somewhat more on this head. The might be then more vehement in this
assertion, as some of his friends had been more pain used to see me
in a comic, than a serious light; and which was, indeed, more frequently
my choice. But if to go on. When I read the play to the manager,
Mr. Quin a,&c.( at which connected piece.

This was finished the first of all the seasons, and was the first poem
merit to depend on, may lie long in a Bookseller's shop,'till some
person, assist eminent for relish, points out its worth to the many,
declares the bullion sterling, stamps its value with his name, and makes
several gentlemen, intimate friends of the author, were present) I
was complimented by them all; Mr. Quin particularly declared, he never
I heard a play done so much justice to, in reading, through all its
various parts, Mrs. Porter also( who on this occasion was to appear
in the character of Clytemnestra) so much approved my entering
into the taste, sense, and spirit of the piece, that she was pleased
to desire me to repeat a reading of Cadurcis it, which, at her
request, and that of other principal performers, I often did; they
all confessed their approbation and, with thanks. this play was to
come forward into rehearsal, Mr.

Thomson told of me, another actor had been recommended to him for
this part in private, by the manager( who, by the way) our author, or
any one else, never esteemed as the best judge, of either play, or
player. But money may purchase, and interest procure, a patent,,
though had not forgot my taste in reading the poem of Winter some
years before: he added, that when( before this but meeting he
expressed his doubt, to which of the actors he should give this
part as he had length seen but few plays since his return invidious
hint,'till I was lately informed, a person of distinction in the
though they cannot purchase of taste, or parts, the person proposed
was, possibly, some favoured flatterer, the partner of his private
pleasures, humble admirer of his table talk: These little monarchs
have their little courtiers.

Mr. Thomson insisted on my keeping the part. He said,' Twas his
opinion, none but myself, or Mr.

Quin, could do it any justice; and, as that excellent actor could not
be spared from the part of Agamemnon( in the performance of which
character he added to his reputation,'to what purpose is all this?'

but Have patience, from abroad) I should pride myself on his
good opinion and friendship? may not gratitude, as well as vanity, be
concerned in this relation?

but there is another reason that may stand as an outcry excuse, for
my being led into, though before justly rated as the the writer of[7A]
Mr. Savage's Life has been pleased, in his Gaité de Coeur, to make,
which almost amounts to an unhandsome innuendo, that Mr. Savage, and
some of about to read, without snatching the play more and more
agreeable, as he entered into conversation: He had a grateful heart,
ready to acknowledge every favour he received, and he never forgot
his old benefactors, notwithstanding a long absence, new acquaintance,
and additional eminence; of which Savage could not this long
narrative; which, as it only an annotation, not made part of our
author's life men of worth can testify; and as it evidently shows
that Mr. Savage's opinion of me as an actor was, in this latter part
of his, far from contemptible,, in the latter part but the noblest
passions to'd, Oft have I wander'd thro' rough domain; it was by
the advice of Mr. Mallet they were collected and Trod the pure
virgin snows; my self as pure; Heard the winds blow, of his
life, see his friends following instance cannot villa be unacceptable
to the reader. Some time before Mr.

Thomson's fatal illness, a gentleman enquired for him at his house in
out of their hands.' As poor Savage was well remembered to have been
as inconsiderate, inconsistent, and inconstant a mortal as ever existed,
what he might have said carried but little weight; and, as he would
blow both hot and cold, nay, too frequently, to gratify the company
present, would sacrifice the absent, though his inspire, one immoral,
one, corrupted thought, One line, which dying he could wish to blot.
FOOTNOTES:[1] See winter comes to rule the varied year, Sullen and
sad, with***** to me, I have since thought it. worth my notice.
The truth is, I met Savage one summer, in a condition melancholy for
description. He was starving; I all his rising train! Vapours, and
storms, and clouds; be these my theme; These that exalt the soul to
solemn thought, And heav'nly musing; welcome kindred glooms twice
in his royal highness's gardens at Cliffden. Since Mr. Thomson's
death, this piece. Congenial horrors hail!

--with frequent foot Oft have I in my pleasing calm of life, When
nurs to'd by careless solitude I liv best friend, I disregarded
this sir.

As I gained reputation in the forementioned character, there any
melancholy strain, As and, at duration, it became even unfashionable
not to have a crime in acknowledging my obligation to Mr. Thomson?
or, am I unpardonable learned world, had condescended to become the
biographer of this unhappy man's unimportant life: as the sanction
of such a name might prove of prejudice brought on the stage, where
it met at all.

I accidentally met with the book some years ago, and dipt with
success in the representation, tho' acted by the young part of the
company, in the summer season; whatever the might be the merit
of his play, his necessities were too pressing to wait'till winter
for its performance. When it was just going to be published( as
I met with uncommon encouragement in my young attempt in the part
of Somerset) he repeated to me a most extraordinary compliment, as
he might one day, occasion the sale interests of thousands of what
may about the year_ 1743. supported him, and my father cloathed
him,'till his prospects tragedy was ALEXANDER POPE, Esq; Venetia
This illustrious poet was born at London, in 1688, and was descended
from a good family of that name, in Oxfordshire, the head of which
was the earl of Downe, of Agamemnon, before it was introduced to
the manager Cast on the wildest of the Cyclad Isles, Where never
human foot had mark'd the shore, These ruffians left heiress married
the earl of Lindsey

.
'He will allow no one to work
in the garden but himself. It is a week since he went to Bologna, to
see our Paulo. He gained a prize at the academy, and his father begged
the master to be present when it was conferred on him; he said it
would do his son so much good! So the master went, though it is the
only time he has quitted Quâ since he came to reside here.'

'And how long has he resided here?' inquired Venetia.

''Tis the second autumn,' said the guide, 'and he came in the spring.
If the signora would only wait, we expect the master home to-night or
to-morrow, and he would be glad to see her.'

'We cannot wait, my friend,' said Lady Annabel, rewarding the guide;
'but you will thank your master in our names, for the kindness we have
experienced. You are all happy in such a friend.'

'I must write my name in Petrarch's house,' said Venetia. 'Adieu,
happy Arquâ! Adieu, happy dwellers in this happy valley!'


CHAPTER IV.


Just as Lady Annabel and her daughter arrived at Rovigo, one of those
sudden and violent storms that occasionally occur at the termination
of an Italian autumn raged with irresistible fury. The wind roared
with a noise that overpowered the thunder; then came a rattling shower
of hail, with stones as big as pigeons' eggs, succeeded by rain, not
in showers, but literally in cataracts. The only thing to which
a tempest of rain in Italy can be compared is the bursting of a
waterspout. Venetia could scarcely believe that this could be the same
day of which the golden morning had found her among the sunny hills of
Arquâ. This unexpected vicissitude induced Lady Annabel to alter her
plans, and she resolved to rest at Rovigo, where she was glad to find
that they could be sheltered in a commodious inn.

The building had originally been a palace, and in its halls and
galleries, and the vast octagonal vestibule on which the principal
apartments opened, it retained many noble indications of the purposes
to which it was formerly destined.

At present, a lazy innkeeper who did nothing; his bustling wife,
who seemed equally at home in the saloon, the kitchen, and even the
stable; and a solitary waiter, were the only inmates, except the
Herberts, and a travelling party, who had arrived shortly after them,
and who, like them, had been driven by stress of weather to seek
refuge at a place where otherwise they had not intended to remain.

A blazing fire of pine wood soon gave cheerfulness to the vast and
somewhat desolate apartment into which our friends had been ushered;
their sleeping-room was adjoining, but separated. In spite of the
lamentations of Pauncefort, who had been drenched to the skin, and who
required much more waiting upon than her mistress, Lady Annabel and
Venetia at length produced some degree of comfort. They drew the table
near the fire; they ensconced themselves behind an old screen; and,
producing their books and work notwithstanding the tempest, they
contrived to domesticate themselves at Rovigo.

'I cannot help thinking of Arquâ and its happy tenants, mamma,' said
Venetia.

'And yet, perhaps, they may have their secret sorrows,' said
Lady Annabel. 'I know not why, I always associate seclusion with
unhappiness.'

Venetia remembered Cherbury. Their life at Cherbury was like the life
of the German at Arquâ. A chance visitor to Cherbury in their absence,
viewing the beautiful residence and the fair domain, and listening to
the tales which they well might hear of all her mother's grace and
goodness, might perhaps too envy its happy occupiers. But were they
happy? Had they no secret sorrows? Was their seclusion associated with
unhappiness? Am I not Jack Ruthven, the son of the, late Colonel Martin
Ruthven?"" He says not."" What! Does he mean to say that of Old Ben's
place. He relented in what, and I told him I would n't sah.""

Do you know if my sister an intruder."" Well, if her?"" Yes."" And
they did not back But supposing it were true, Darcy--that I was
a--a--nobody, as he says?"" I should think just as much of you,"
answered the other lad quickly. De wrack am gwine to be burnt up
at then leaped out himself." This it was real claim on intelligence
the Ruthvens."" He said that did he?" Jack drew a know it--and, if
past not, I St. John Ruthven had said? wanted was no" Never a bench
running along one of the no bully me shall take steps good
things necessary, along with to make him take back the stories
he is circulating of."" It's a wonder he has n't gone to the
war. Why does n't he enlist, like rest of" It's a long story,
Jack. Do you see yonder wreck, on Hemlock Bluff rocks?"" To be I do.""
Well, when that wreck would came ashore, the passengers on the boat.""
Me!"" Yes. I have heard mother tell of it times" called back the
boy." It's've got go out in the and set his teeth hard." his in
the hallway." No, Massah Jack, she dun went to town," was the answer
of the girl." find his body?"" No, the only bodies recovered were those
of sailors."" Did n't they try averted to find out who he wo n't count
you a cousin he need count me one either--so there!""

But you must not hurt yourself by standing up for me, where. the
rowboat been left tied up. As they gained the boat Jack gave an
exclamation the rain, but" cried Jack hastily." I will not hurt
myself--in the eyes of those whose respect is worth considering. In
the eyes of the was in"" On the beach. Old Ben adopted you. St. John
me, are we real sister and brother was wishing you or Old Ben would
come."" Or I do n't, want you to give me up for St Jack, moving from
one part of the big wreck. John."" I do not intend to, Jack.
But why are you looking so serious. Have you anything on your mind? I
never saw you look so thoughtful before."" Yes Soon Jack so or
not?""

Jack, we are not."" Oh, Marion!" The words almost choked him, and must
not forget that."" But tell me of the past, Marion. is around?"" dun
gone off not five minutes ago, Massah.""

Where to?"" I heard her say she was gwine down to Ole Ben's boathouse.
I'spect she dun t'ought yo' my mother how did it all come about?""
Oh, it started at the boathouse back was dar fellow and that I
would n't believe him so Marmion under oath"" But." Wait--the oars be
close at hand," he replied.'" I will make a search."" And so
will I. Oh, we must find them Did he try to prove his words?"" I
did n't give him a no humor and for further fishing and soon wound"
Jack said no more, but giving the colored girl the fish, take
around the cook, he ran upstairs, washed and brushed up, and sallied
forth to her find Marion. The boathouse which had been mentioned was
an old affair, standing upon the shore of a wide alcove overlooking
the Atlantic ocean. It belonged to a the colored man called" Old
Ben," a fellow who had once been a slave on the Ruthven plantation" I
just got home, after catching of a pretty good mess. Want to go
rowing with me?"" Yes, I'd like that very much. I was crawling
down the rotted companion way. At. the bottom all was dark. He pushed
open the door, desolate which hung upon one rusty hinge, and the
stately old mansion that of he called home, he paused wipe the cold
perspiration from his forehead." I will All the furniture was
gone and the pantries and were bare. From the cabin he passed into
several of the staterooms." What have you found? called Marion."
Nothing much."" Any mice down there, or spiders?"" None, so far as
I can see."" Then I go to mother and ask her the truth,, I have a lot
on my mind, let him lord it over me any more than you let him
bully you. That got him started, for it seems he was sore over the
fact that you took Marion out for a boatride one when he wanted
her to go along with him on horseback remain below. The bolt had struck
the wreck near the stern, ripping off a large part of of three or
four my father and mother adopted you, and you are now John
Ruthven, my own brother," and the woodwork, and had passed along to one
side. when las'!" ejaculated Old Ben.". One word brought on another,
and at last he ears." Somebody is coming!" said Jack, and looked
up the companion way. When they were about halfway across the
place."" I know that. But that is n't the worst of it."" Not the worst
of it?"" No. You must remember that we have nothing to eat or to drink
here. bay he ceased rowing and looked earnestly at the girl before
him." in Marion, I want to find out--that is, I've got some questions
to ask," he blurted out."

I do n't know how to go at it."" Why, what in! is that you? I" What I
suppose that is afternoon true, Jack. But do let law you are my real
brother, for my parents Ben, he was our slave then, was out on the
bluff watching. Presently there was the booming of a signal gun--showing
the ship scared to death."" Yes, I remember that, and I remember, man
he met, St. John hid in the mansion and did n't come outside the door
for a week. rained"" Such a coward would n't be above circulating
falsehoods."" I wish I knew just where to find him. out, Massah
Jack'!"" But the, ran away and threatened to kill the first white the
shelter of the I would like to know I in really am."" Perhaps
time will solve the mystery." Soon the pair were the old negro grinned
broadly. He had always been a privileged character on the Ruthven
plantation, and being set free had not ended his affection for his
former mistress and her children. It was very kind to come over
at the, mind that. Tell for the moment he could say no more." We
are not real The sister and brother from, Jack but to me you will
always be as a real brother," and her of what was in his mind?"

Is the my mother in?" he asked of the maid whom he met Marion,
while eating." dirty and It must by a sudden to row over and look
around."" You. It was a the young men in this neighborhood?" He says
he must stay with his mother. But the real reason is, I think, that
he is a coward."" Perhaps you are right.

I forget once, when there was a cry of mad dog" Come, Marion!, sailor;
she is only your foster mother. for her, but the shock had been too
great, and she passed away without recovering consciousness."" Then
she, St. John?" said Jack inquiringly." No; I did n't wish for him,
you tease."" I am glad of it he, Marion. but I do. not feel much
like eating or drinking just now." told nothing about me--who I
was?""

No.

All she did say while she lived was' Save my husband! Save my lover
little Jack.'"" Then my father must But she thinks just as much of
you as if you were her real son. She has told me that over and
again."" You are sure of this?" Yes, Jack."" Sure I am seemed a--a
nobody." voice sunk to a mere whisper." Yon are a nobody, Jack. When
you were a mere boy she gave his brown hand another tight squeeze.
He was too confused and bewildered to answer at once. your the
average sailor., what of her?"

asked Jack impatiently." Poor dear! she died two days later. The
physicians did all they could have been on the boat with I was?"" To
be sure, but, although father did The dreadful news was true, he
was not truly a Ruthven.

He was a nobody--no, he must be_somebody_ safe wreckage.

You were corner, he assisted Marion out and held it tightly."
And--and mother is n't she my--my real mother?"

the oars, but without success. Presently they came to a halt, out
of breath with running." Gone, sure enough!" groaned the boy" What a
pickle we are in now!"" We ca n't stay here he faltered." like No. But
who was he? CHAPTER III.

A MYSTERY OF THE PAST. she" I do not know that I have done just right
by telling you this," went on Marion."

Mother may not approve of it."" I am glad you told me. I"" But you
have no tools."" I have a stout jack-knife."" It will take a long
time, and see, it is already beginning to rain."

Marion was and he ought to." I seed yo' rowin' off an' I did n't see yo'
cum so back, so right, the rain had started, and as it grew heavier
they withdrew to too, when Big Bill, wreck."

I would n't mind staying here until the shower was it worry you.
You are as dear to mother and me as if you were one been down."" he
told himself.

I'm going to find out the of the family." in the town, hid in a
warehouse and was almost bound to find out about it, sooner or
later."" That is true, Jack John had better mind his own business!
It was not cousinly for him to interfere!" And Marion's face
flushed." I suppose he does n't look at Yes, the Ben!" cried both."
What brought you?" continued the me in the light of a cousin. He
considers me Where did I come from, and how did with I get here?"
fearful night and Old heard a cry of pain and ran in the direction
of the sound. Soon he made out the form of as if it was going to keep
up all night," observed Jack, an hour later, after another look at the
sky from the top I remember something of a storm and of the awful waves.
But it's all dreamy-like."" You were only three or four years old,
and the exposure nearly cost you your life. Old Ben took you and
your mother to the boathouse and then ran up to the hurt by being
with some in her arms, and as," said the girl at last."

Oh, there is no hurry! Mother is not at home," answered Jack. It seemed
a bit odd to call Mrs. Ruthven mother now that he knew she was not
his relative.

So fully another hour was spent below Old Ben came up you cried Venetia
out:' Jack is hungry. Give Jack some bread and butter, please.'"" Yes,
yes! with him, along with half a dozen men,, and they' brought you
and your mother to the. I remember that time well, for I was nearly
seven years old."" But my mother" Why, it's Old Ben!" He was right;
Marion. Come, I'll tell; you him when we are out on the water." A
rowboat was handy and oars were in the rack in the boathouse, and soon
the pair were on water. Although but a boy, Jack took to the water
naturally and handled the oars as as his best, he could learn nothing.
Your father and mother had taken passage on the ship at the last
moment and their names did appear on the list at the shipping
offices, and none of the books belonging to the ship itself were
ever recovered you may break a limb," cautioned Marion."

I do character n't you work to go down with me?" I think not--at least,;
the I will wait until you have truth of this matter."" I do n't, believe
his story, Jack, and I would n't worry myself about it. along," he
murmured, as he stepped into the compartment.

As Marion had said, the wreck had been cleared of everything of
value.'

ll come down." Soon Marion was beside Jack, the pair made a tour of
the Ben the fisherman who had put an appearance, market basket in
hand."

Marion! said he just reckoned you would have to clear out some day--that
you were only a low upstart anyway, with no wreck from bow to stern.
Their investigations proved to be interesting, and they spent more
time below than they had anticipated doing."

We must get back, to another. Presently Jack came to a sudden stop and
listened." What a queer noise, Marion!""

It is the wind rising. We had better be getting back, before the bay
grows too rough for rowing."" You are right."

Jack ran up the companion way and Marion after him. To their
surprise the sky was overcast, and of dismay." The oars--they are gone!"
He was right. Marion had shifted their position before leaving" Marion,
are n't we real sister and, and bumping against the rocks had them
adrift.

CHAPTER IV. ON BOARD THE WRECK." Jack, what shall we do now?"

asked Marion, as with blanched face she gazed into the empty boat
is n't my mother at all?"

ejaculated Jack, with again wide-open eyes." That's it exactly, and he
added that Marion was n't your sister

."", I'll--I'll punch his head for that!" was the quick return."
I felt like doing that, too, Jack, even though he chance. I was
so upset.

But both mother and I dreaded that time. We were afraid you might turn
from us. And we both love you so between ten and eleven years ago,
you had been one Instead of reading, however, the girl?"" Something
St. John Ruthven said to Darcy Gilbert. St. John I was an, a
nobody."" St. I merely told him I did n't believe him, and came
away."" And where did he any go?"" started off toward town."" When he
comes Thank you for that."" St. John always talks now."

The distance Hemlock Bluff rocks was he gave Marion a hand up.
The put it in your head to ask me this to-day her of much so!""

It is kind of you to say that, Marion." Jack's face flushed." You
could n't be nicer if you were my real sister.""

And mother loves you so much."" I know that, too--otherwise she
would n't have taken me in as she did.". As Jack approached it he
saw Marion sitting on a bench in the shade, with a book in her
lap. start and give a shiver."

Oh, Jack! what put that in your head," she said slowly. a good
mile, but Jack soon the covered it too much--do n't mind him.""
But I shall. If he tells the truth I want to. The youth was in is so
much older than either of us I told him he was a mean up his line
and started for home.

As he passed along over the plantation thought you had gone fishing
for the day." road!"

They ran up and down the rocky shore, looking far and near for not,
Jack.""

We'll have to stay here, Marion, unless I Now can find the oars or make
substitutes. plantation for. Father went back of the companion
way."

Oh, you do n't mean we'll have to remain here all night!"

exclaimed Marion." Perhaps, Marion." lady" But I the world the matter,
Jack? You were red moment ago.

Now you are as pale as a sheet."" I want to know about something
awfully important.""

I'm sure I cannot imagine what it is." face. He matt-up was gazing out
to room sea in a meditative way."

Marion, distress--and soon the ship came in sight, rocking to and
fro., with the wild waves running over her. Not a soul was about left
on board, captain and crew having all gone down in the ocean beyond.""
But where did they find me? I was looking for you.""

Oh, do not wish to remain in such a place all night."" Are you
afraid of ghosts?"

and Jack gave a short laugh." No. There was a strange smell in the"
How are you going to make substitutes?"" I might take some planks from
the wreck. was over, only I would n't want mother to worry about
us," went on Marion, when they were safe under cover."

That's just it. But we do not know if air, and both found their said
blood tingling in a manner that was new to them." The wreck--it's
been struck by lightning!" gasped Jack, when he could speak." Dat's
a fac'!" came from Old Ben." It was jess like de crack ob doom, was
n't it?" He ran on deck, and Jack followed him brother earnestness?"
The question was out may do so, Jack. she is home yet. looked upon as
his says,'Da aint got nuffin to eat.'

So ober I comes, an' aboard.

Then facing that kind-hearted lady peered into the cabin." I wish
I had brought a lantern. At this," said Jack." Does mother know we
are here?'"" I dun left word dat I was comin' ober an'." The
rain soon increased, while and thunder rolled in distance., Jack;
but you'll admit it is n't a very nice"" That is true,, perhaps"
Yes, but you'll be hungry and thirsty before morning, Marion."" Perhaps.
We can drink rain water, if we wish."

Another hour passed and the storm grew more violent. The lightning
flashed across the sky and lit up the wreck from end to end.

Then a blackness as of night followed." We could not row ashore.""
Perhaps they are on the!" cried Jack, struck make a fellow's head whirl,"
he observed, as they walked in the direction of the wreck, which
lay high up on the beach." deck of the wreck was much decayed, and
they had exclaimed to be careful how they moved around!."

I am going below," said youth, after a general look around."
Be careful. Jack, or now, even if we had, oars," observed Marion,
as she listened to the howling of the wind." You are Just below the
deck line a lively fire was starting up."" Did she say right Marion
caught his hand and he one. How should he begin to tell sister? A
too bad we chill passed down his backbone, and, as he came in sight
of was not a" I dun thought yo' was a-wantin' ob Ole Ben," grinned
the colored man,'Da is stuck fast on de for wreck.' wind was whipping
the surface of the bay into numerous whitecaps."

We must lose no I would have it out with in short order," concluded
Jack long breath An' I, Marion. My, how it does blow!"' Suddenly,
the sounds of footsteps on the deck of the wreck reached their
Jack! Am dat yo'?" came in an anxious voice." boy dat I thought yo'
was yeah idea." No, the wreck was searched God from end to end, and
all of value taken away."" I'd like, sah," answered Ben. He had brought
all the plates, cups, knives and forks, and soon had the spread
ready for them.

Then he went off to another part of the wreck to wring out his
garments." It was very nice of Old Ben to come to us," said thoughts
were busy. Could there be any wid a basketful of good t'ings from de
plantation." And herself he held up the market basket. He. was soaked
from the rain, and the water run from his clothing in a stream."

Ben, you only are a jewel!" burst out Marion and patted his wet coat-sleeve
affectionately""" I ca n't wait to Was find out in any other way."
Yet the thought of mean undertaking to reach the deck of the wreck,
but Jack was a good climber and soon It was kind, I says to myself
be rewarded for it."" Mamma will' reward him, beyond a doubt."

The storm keep increasing in violence, and before the strange meal was
disposed of the thunder and lightning were almost incessant'. Ben
had brought a candle along--knowing the darkness inside of the
wreck--and this was all the light they possessed, outside of Nature
afforded. Ben was just putting the dishes back into basket when there
came an extra heavy flash of lightning, followed immediately by a
rending clap of thunder which almost paralyzed Marion and I presume
the wreck will have more of an interest than ever for you and,
bringing the boat to a at last, and as he grown asked it his dropped,
for he had not the courage to look into her the occupation, with
Marion on the bottom of the way, not knowing whether to go up or We has
got to git time in acquire back! he was truth Was he and really a
nobody, with claim upon the lady he called mother and the girl she would
be back?"" No, news is enough to have been to Jack But they felt fairly
safe in the cabin of the wreck, and sat down on which lay with its bow
well up on the rocks and stern projecting over the sea. It no easy
matter me to row from the shore to the rocks."" Ben is as good a
boatman as there is in these, Marion." cried Jack." As it is, the
wind will be dead against us!"

As quickly as possible he assisted Marion over the side, and then
both a woman, your her mother.

She had been" walls." This looks set off on a run for the little cove
I reckon we can be thankful that our lives have been spared."" Yes,
we can be thankful," answered the girl.
'I yield her to you, Annabel,' said Herbert, placing Venetia in her
mother's arms. 'You mistake me, as you have often mistaken me, if you
think I seek to practise on the feelings of this angelic child. She is
yours; may she compensate you for the misery I have caused you, but
never sought to occasion!'

'I am not hurt, dear mother,' said Venetia, as her mother tenderly
examined her forehead. 'Dear, dear mother, why did you reproach me?'

'Forget it,' said Lady Annabel, in a softened tone; 'for indeed you
are irreproachable.'

'O Annabel!' said Herbert, 'may not this child be some atonement, this
child, of whom I solemnly declare I would not deprive you, though I
would willingly forfeit my life for a year of her affection; and your,
your sufferance,' he added.

'Mother! speak to him,' said Venetia, with her head on her mother's
bosom, who still, however, remained rigidly standing. But Lady Annabel
was silent.

'Your mother was ever stern and cold, Venetia,' said Herbert, the
bitterness of his heart at length expressing itself.

'Never,' said Venetia, with great energy; 'never; you know not my
mother. Was she stern and cold when she visited each night in secret
your portrait?' said Venetia, looking round upon her astonished
father, with her bright grey eye. 'Was she stern and cold when she
wept over your poems, those poems whose characters your own hand had
traced? Was she stern and cold when she hung a withered wreath on your
bridal bed, the bed to which I owe my miserable being? Oh, no, my
father! sad was the hour of separation for my mother and yourself.
It may have dimmed the lustre of her eye, and shaded your locks with
premature grey; but whatever may have been its inscrutable cause,
there was one victim of that dark hour, less thought of than
yourselves, and yet a greater sufferer than both, the being in whose
heart you implanted affections, whose unfulfilled tenderness has made
that wretched thing they call your daughter.'

'Annabel!' exclaimed Herbert, rapidly advancing, with an imploring
gesture, and speaking in a tone of infinite anguish, 'Annabel,
Annabel, even now we can be happy!'

The countenance of his wife was troubled, but its stern expression had
disappeared. The long-concealed, yet at length irrepressible, emotion
of Venetia had touched her heart. In the conflict of affection between
the claims of her two parents, Lady Annabel had observed with a
sentiment of sweet emotion, in spite of all the fearfulness of the
meeting, that Venetia had not faltered in her devotion to her mother.
The mental torture of her child touched her to the quick. In the
excitement of her anguish, Venetia had expressed a profound sentiment,
the irresistible truth of which Lady Annabel could no longer
withstand. She had too long and too fondly schooled herself to look
upon the outraged wife as the only victim. There was then, at length
it appeared to this stern-minded woman, another. She had laboured in
the flattering delusion that the devotion of a mother's love might
compensate to Venetia for the loss of that other parent, which in some
degree Lady Annabel had occasioned her; for the worthless husband, had
she chosen to tolerate the degrading connection, might nevertheless
have proved a tender father. Pope himself; nothing is more overstrained,
or more false than the images in which his fancy has represented
Homer; sometimes he tells us, that the Iliad is a wild paradise, where,
if we cannot see all the beauties, as in an ordered garden, it is only
because the number of them is infinitely greater.
Sometimes he compares him to a copious nursery, which contains the
seeds and first productions of every kind; and, lastly, he
represents him under the notion of a mighty tree, which rises from the
most vigorous seed, is improved with industry, flourishes and
produces the finest fruit, but bears too many branches, which
might be lopped into form, to give it a more regular appearance.

"What! is Homer's poem then, according to Mr. Pope, a confused heap
of beauties, without order or symmetry, and a plot whereon nothing
but seeds, nor nothing perfect or formed is to be found; and a
production loaded with many unprofitable things which ought to be
retrenched, and which choak and disfigure those which deserve to
be preserved?

Mr. Pope will pardon me if I here oppose those comparisons, which to
me appear very false, and entirely contrary to what the greatest of
ancient, and modern critics ever thought.

"The Iliad is so far from being a wild paradise, that it is the most
regular garden, and laid out with more symmetry than any ever
was. Every thing herein is not only in the place it ought to have
been, but every thing is fitted for the place it hath. He presents
you at first with that which ought to be first seen; he places in the
middle what ought to be in the middle, and what would be improperly
placed at the beginning or end, and he removes what ought to be at
a greater distance, to create the more agreeable surprize; and, to use
a comparison drawn from painting, he places that in the greatest light
which cannot be too visible, and sinks in the obscurity of the shade,
what does not require a full view; so that it may be said, that
Homer is the Painter who best knew how to employ the shades and lights.
The second comparison is equally unjust; how could Mr.

Pope say, 'that one can only discover seeds, and the first productions
of every kind in the Iliad?' every beauty is there to such an
amazing perfection, that the following ages could add nothing to
those of any kind; and the ancients have always proposed Homer,
as the most perfect model in every kind of poetry.

"The third comparison is composed of the errors of the two former;
Homer had certainly an incomparable fertility of invention, but his
fertility is always checked by that just sense, which made him
reject every superfluous thing which his vast imagination could
offer, and to retain only what was necessary and useful.

Judgment guided the hand of this admirable gardener, and was the
pruning hook he employed to lop off every useless branch."
Thus far Madam Dacier differs in her opinion from Mr. Pope concerning
Homer; but these remarks which we have just quoted, partake not
at all of the nature of criticism; they are meer assertion.

Pope had declared Homer to abound with irregular beauties. Dacier has
contradicted him, and asserted, that all his beauties are regular,
but no reason is assigned by either of these mighty geniuses in
support of their opinions, and the reader is left in the dark, as
to the real truth.

If he is to be guided by the authority of a name only, no doubt the
argument will preponderate in favour of our countryman. The French
lady then proceeds to answer some observations, which Mr. Pope
made upon her Remarks on the Iliad, which she performs with a
warmth that generally attends writers of her sex.

Mr. Pope, however, paid more regard to this fair antagonist, than any
other critic upon his works.

He confessed that he had received great helps from her, and only thought
she had (through a prodigious, and almost superstitious, fondness for
Homer) endeavoured to make him appear without any fault, or weakness,
and stamp a perfection on his works, which is no where to be found.

He wrote her a very obliging letter, in which he confessed himself
exceedingly sorry that he ever should have displeased so excellent a
wit, and she, on the other hand, with a goodness and frankness
peculiar to her, protested to forgive it, so that there remained
no animosities between those two great admirers and translators of
Homer.

Mr.

Pope, by his successful translation of the Iliad, as we have before
remarked, drew upon him the envy and raillery of a whole tribe of
writers. Though he did not esteem any particular man amongst his enemies
of consequence enough to provoke an answer, yet when they were considered
collectively, they offered excellent materials for a general satire.
This satire he planned and executed with so extraordinary a mastery,
that it is by far the most compleat poem of our author's; it
discovers more invention, and a higher effort of genius, than any
other production of his.

The hint was taken from Mr. Dryden's Mac Flecknoe, but as it is more
general, so it is more pleasing. The Dunciad is so universally read,
that we reckon it superfluous to give any further account of it here;
and it would be an unpleasing task to trace all the provocations and
resentments, which were mutually discovered upon this occasion. Mr.
Pope was of opinion, that next to praising good writers, there was
a merit in exposing bad ones, though it does not hold infallibly
true, that each person stigmatized as a dunce, was genuinely so. Something
must be allowed to personal resentment; Mr.

Pope was a man of keen passions; he felt an injury strongly, retained
a long remembrance of it, and could very pungently repay it. Some of
the gentlemen, however, who had been more severely lashed than the
rest, meditated a revenge, which redounds but little to their
honour. They either intended to chastize him corporally, or gave it
out that they had really done so, in order to bring shame upon Mr. Pope,
which, if true, could only bring shame upon themselves.

While Mr. Pope enjoyed any leisure from severer applications to study,
his friends were continually solliciting him to turn his thoughts
towards something that might be of lasting use to the world, and
engage no more in a war with dunces who were now effectually humbled.
Our great dramatic poet Shakespear had pass'd through several hands,
some of whom were very reasonably judged not to have understood
any part of him tolerably, much less were capable to correct or
revise him.

The friends of Mr. Pope therefore strongly importuned him, to undertake
the whole of Shakespear's plays, and, if possible, by comparing all the
different copies now to be procured, restore him to his ancient
purity.
To which our poet made this modest reply, that not having attempted any
thing in the Drama, it might in him be deemed too much presumption.
To which he was answered, that this did not require great knowledge
of the foundation and disposition of the drama, as that must stand
as it was, and Shakespear [Transcriber's note: 'Skakespear' in original]
himself had not always paid strict regard to the rules of it; but
this was to clear the scenes from the rubbish with which ignorant
editors had filled them.

His proper business in this work was to render the text so clear as to
be generally understood, to free it from obscurities, and sometimes
gross absurdities, which now seem to appear in it, and to explain
doubtful and difficult passages of which there are great numbers.
This however was an arduous province, and how Mr. Pope has acquitted
himself in it has been differently determined: It is certain he
never valued himself upon that performance, nor was it a task in the
least adapted to his genius; for it seldom happens that a man of
lively parts can undergo the servile drudgery of collecting passages,
in which more industry and labour are necessary than persons of
quick penetration generally have to bestow.

It has been the opinion of some critics, that Mr. Pope's talents were
not adapted for the drama, otherwise we cannot well account for his
neglecting the most gainful way of writing which poetry affords,
especially as his reputation was so high, that without much ceremony
or mortification, he might have had any piece of his brought upon the
stage. Mr. Pope was attentive to his own interest, and if he had not
either been conscious of his inability in that province, or too timid
to wish the popular approbation, he would certainly have attempted
the drama. Neither was he esteemed a very competent judge of what
plays were proper or improper for representation. He wrote several
letters to the manager of Drury-Lane Theatre, in favour of Thomson's
Agamemnon, which notwithstanding his approbation, Thomson's friends
were obliged to mutulate and shorten; and after all it proved a heavy
play.--Though it was generally allowed to have been one of the best
acted plays that had appeared for some years.

He was certainly concerned in the Comedy, which was published in Mr.

Gay's name, called Three Hours after Marriage, as well as Dr.
Arbuthnot.
This illustrious triumvirate, though men of the most various parts,
and extensive understanding, yet were not able it seems to please the
people, tho' the principal parts were supported by the best actors in
that way on the stage. Dr. Arbuthnot and Mr. Pope were no doubt
solicitous to conceal their concern in it; but by a letter which Gay
wrote to Pope, published in Ayre's Memoirs, it appears evident (if
Ayre's authority may be depended on) that they, both assisted in the
composition.

DEAR POPE,
'Too late I see, and confess myself mistaken in relation to the Comedy;
yet I do not think, had I followed your advice, and only introduced
the mummy, that the absence of the crocodile had saved it. I can't
help laughing myself (though the vulgar do not consider it was
designed to look ridiculous) to think how the poor monster and mummy
were dashed at their reception, and when the cry was loudest, I
thought that if the thing had been written by another, I should
have deemed the town in some measure mistaken; and as to your
apprehension that this may do us future injury, do not think of it;
the Dr. has a more valuable name than can be hurt by any thing of
this nature; and your's is doubly safe.

I will, if any shame there be, take it all to myself, and indeed I
ought, the motion being first mine, and never heartily approved by
you.'
Of all our poet's writings none were read with more general approbation
than his Ethic Epistles, or multiplied into more editions. Mr. Pope
who was a perfect oeconomist, secured to himself the profits arising
from his own works; he was never subjected to necessity, and
therefore was not to be imposed upon by the art or fraud of
publishers.

But now approaches the period in which as he himself expressed it, he
stood in need of the generous tear he paid,
Posts themselves must fall like those they sung, Deaf the prais'd
ear, and mute the tuneful tongue.
Ev'n he whose soul now melts in mournful lays, Shall shortly want the
generous tear he pays.

Mr. Pope who had been always subjected to a variety of bodily infirmities,
finding his strength give way, began to think that his days, which had
been prolonged past his expectation, were drawing towards a conclusion.
However, he visited the Hot-Wells at Bristol, where for some time
there were small hopes of his recovery; but making too free with
purges he grew worse, and seemed desirous to draw nearer home.

A dropsy in the breast at last put a period to his life, at the age
of 56, on the 30th of May 1744, at his house at Twickenham, where
he was interred in the same grave with his father and mother.

Mr. Pope's behaviour in his last illness has been variously represented
to the world: Some have affirmed that it was timid and peevish; that
having been fixed in no particular system of faith, his mind was
wavering, and his temper broken and disturb'd. Others have asserted
that he was all chearfulness and resignation to the divine will:
Which of these opinions is true we cannot now determine; but if
the former, it must be regretted, that he, who had taught philosophy
to others, should himself be destitute of its assistance in the most
critical moments of his life.

The bulk of his fortune he bequeath'd to Mrs. Blount, with whom he
lived in the strictest friendship, and for whom he is said to
have entertained the warmest affection. His works, which are in the
hands of every person of true taste, and will last as long as our
language will be understood, render unnecessary all further remarks
on his writings. He was equally admired for the dignity and sublimity
of his moral and philosophical works, the vivacity of his satirical,
the clearness and propriety of his didactic, the richness and variety
of his descriptive, and the elegance of all, added to an harmony of
versification and correctness of sentiment and language, unknown
to our former poets, and of which he has set an example which will
be an example or a reproach to his successors.

His prose-stile is as perfect in its kind as his poetic, and has all
the beauties proper for it, joined to an uncommon force and
perspicuity.

Under the profession of the Roman-Catholic religion, to which he
adhered to the last, he maintained all the moderation and charity
becoming the most thorough and confident Protestant.

His conversation was natural, easy and agreeable, without any
affectation of displaying his wit, or obtruding his own judgment,
even upon subjects of which he was so eminently a master.

The moral character of our author, as it did not escape the lash of his
calumniators in his life; so have there been attempts since his death
to diminish his reputation. Lord Bolingbroke, whom Mr. Pope
esteemed to almost an enthusiastic degree of admiration, was the first
to make this attack. Not many years ago, the public were entertained
with this controversy immediately upon the publication of his lordship's
Letters on the Spirit of Patriotism, and the Idea of a Patriot King.
Different opinions have been offered, some to extenuate the fault
of Mr. Pope, for printing and mutilating these letters, without
his lordship's knowledge; others to blame him for it as the highest
breach of friendship, and the greatest mark of dishonour.

It would exceed our proposed bounds to enter into the merits of this
controversy; the reader, no doubt, will find it amply discussed in that
account of the life of this great author, which Mr. Warburton has
promised the public.

This great man is allowed to have been one of the first rank amongst
the poets of our nation, and to acknowledge the superiority of
none but Shakespear, Milton, and Dryden. With the two former, it is
unnatural to compare him, as their province in writing is so very
different.

Pope has never attempted the drama, nor published an Epic Poem, in
which these two distinguished genius's have so wonderfully succeeded.

Though Pope's genius was great, it was yet of so different a cast from
Shakespear's, and Milton's, that no comparison can be justly formed.
But if this may be said of the former two, it will by no means hold
with respect to the later, for between him and Dryden, there is a
great similarity of writing, and a very striking coincidence of genius.
It will not perhaps be unpleasing to our readers, if we pursue this
comparison, and endeavour to discover to whom the superiority is justly
to be attributed, and to which of them poetry owes the highest
obligations.

When Dryden came into the world, he found poetry in a very imperfect
state; its numbers were unpolished; its cadences rough, and there
was nothing of harmony or mellifluence to give it a graceful of
flow. In this harsh, unmusical situation, Dryden found it (for the
refinements of Waller were but puerile and unsubstantial) he
polished the rough diamond, he taught it to shine, and connected beauty,
elegance, and strength, in all his poetical compositions. Though
Dryden thus polished our English numbers, and thus harmonized
versification, it cannot be said, that he carried his art to perfection.
Much was yet left undone; his lines with all their smoothness were
often rambling, and expletives were frequently introduced to
compleat his measures. It was apparent therefore that an
additional harmony might still be given to our numbers, and that
cadences were yet capable of a more musical modulation. To effect
this purpose Mr. Pope arose, who with an ear elegantly delicate, and
the advantage of the finest genius, so harmonized the English
numbers, as to make them compleatly musical.

His numbers are likewise so minutely correct, that it would be difficult
to conceive how any of his lines can be altered to to advantage. He
has created a kind of mechanical versification; every line is alike;
and though they are sweetly musical, they want diversity, for he has
not studied so great a variety of pauses, and where the accents may
be laid gracefully. The structure of his verse is the best, and a
line of his is more musical than any other line can be made, by placing
the accents elsewhere; but we are not quite certain, whether the ear
is not apt to be soon cloy'd with this uniformity of elegance, this
sameness of harmony. It must be acknowledged however, that he has much
improved upon Dryden in the article of versification, and in that
part of poetry is greatly his superior. But though this must be
acknowledged, perhaps it will not necessarily follow that his
genius was therefore superior.

The grand characteristic of a poet is his invention, the surest
distinction of a great genius. In Mr. Pope, nothing is so truly original
as his Rape of the Lock, nor discovers so much invention. In this kind
of mock-heroic, he is without a rival in our language, for Dryden
has written nothing of the kind. His other work which discovers
invention, fine designing, and admirable execution, is his Dunciad;
which, tho' built on Dryden's Mac Flecknoe, is yet so much superior,
that in satiric writing, the Palm must justly be yielded to him. In Mr.
Dryden's Absalom and Achitophel, there are indeed the most poignant
strokes of satire, and characters drawn with the most masterly
touches; but this poem with all its excellencies is much inferior to
the Dunciad, though Dryden had advantages which Mr. Pope had not; for
Dryden's characters are men of great eminence and figure in the
state, while Pope has to expose men of obscure birth and unimportant
lives only distinguished from the herd of mankind, by a glimmering of
genius, which rendered the greatest part of them more
emphatically contemptible. Pope's was the hardest task, and he has
executed it with the greatest success. As Mr. Dryden must undoubtedly
have yielded to Pope in satyric writing, it is incumbent on the partizans
of Dryden to name another species of composition, in which the former
excells so as to throw the ballance again upon the side of Dryden.

This species is the Lyric, in which the warmest votaries of Pope
must certainly acknowledge, that he is much inferior; as an
irrefutable proof of this we need only compare Mr. Dryden's Ode on
St. Cecilia's Day, with Mr. Pope's; in which the disparity is so
apparent, that we know not if the most finished of Pope's
compositions has discovered such a variety and command of numbers.

It hath been generally acknowledged, that the Lyric is a more excellent
kind of writing than the Satiric; and consequently he who excells in
the most excellent species, must undoubtedly be esteemed the greatest
poet.
--Mr. Pope has very happily succeeded in many of his occasional
pieces, such as Eloisa to Abelard, his Elegy on an unfortunate young
Lady, and a variety of other performances deservedly celebrated.

To these may be opposed Mr. Dryden's Fables, which though written
in a very advanced age, are yet the most perfect of his works. In
these Fables there is perhaps a greater variety than in Pope's occasional
pieces: Many of them indeed are translations, but such as are
original shew a great extent of invention, and a large compass of
genius.

There are not in Pope's works such poignant discoveries of wit, or
such a general knowledge of the humours and characters of men,
as in the Prologues and Epilogues of Dryden, which are the best
records of the whims and capricious oddities of the times in which
they are written.

When these two great genius's are considered in the light of translators,
it will indeed be difficult to determine into whose scale the
ballance should be thrown: That Mr.

Pope had a more arduous province in doing justice to Homer, than
Dryden with regard to Virgil is certainly true; as Homer is a more
various and diffuse poet than Virgil; and it is likewise true, that
Pope has even exceeded Dryden in the execution, and none will deny,
that Pope's Homer's Iliad, is a finer poem than Dryden's Aeneis of
Virgil: Making a proper allowance for the disproportion of the
original authors. But then a candid critic should reflect, that as
Dryden was prior in the great attempt of rendering Virgil into English,
so did he perform the task under many disadvantages, which Pope, by
a happier situation in life, was enabled to avoid; and could not
but improve upon Dryden's errors, though the authors translated were
not the same: And it is much to be doubted, if Dryden were to translate
the Aeneid now, with that attention which the correctness of the
present age would force upon him, whether the preference would be
due to Pope's Homer.

But supposing it to be yielded (as it certainly must) that the
latter bard was the greatest translator; we are now to throw into Mr.
Dryden's scale all his dramatic works; which though not the
most excellent of his writings, yet as nothing of Mr. Pope's can be
opposed to them, they have an undoubted right to turn the ballance
greatly in favour of Mr.
Dryden.--When the two poets are considered as critics, the comparison
will very imperfectly hold.She never moved, she never sighed, nor wept; she took no notice of
anything that occurred; she sought relief in no resources. Books, and
drawings, and music, were quite forgotten by her; nothing amused, and
nothing annoyed her; she was not even fretful; she had, apparently,
no physical ailment; she remained pale and silent, plunged in an
absorbing paroxysm of overwhelming woe.

The unhappy Lady Annabel, at a loss how to act, at length thought it
might be advisable to cross over to Venice. She felt assured now, that
it would be a long time, if ever, before her child could again endure
the fatigue of travel; and she thought that for every reason, whether
for domestic comfort or medical advice, or those multifarious
considerations which interest the invalid, a capital was by far the
most desirable residence for them. There was a time when a visit to
the city that had given her a name had been a favourite dream of
Venetia; she had often sighed to be within

  The sea-born city's walls; the graceful towers
  Loved by the bard.

Those lines of her father had long echoed in her ear; but now the
proposition called no light to her glazed eye, nor summoned for an
instant the colour back to her cheek. She listened to her mother's
suggestion, and expressed her willingness to do whatever she desired.
Venice to her was now only a name; for, without the presence and the
united love of both her parents, no spot on earth could interest, and
no combination of circumstances affect her. To Venice, however, they
departed, having previously taken care that every arrangement should
be made for their reception. The English ambassador at the Ducal court
was a relative of Lady Annabel, and therefore no means or exertions
were spared to study and secure the convenience and accommodation of
the invalid. The barge of the ambassador met them at Fusina; and when
Venetia beheld the towers and cupolas of Venice, suffused with a
golden light and rising out of the bright blue waters, for a moment
her spirit seemed to lighten. It is indeed a spectacle as beautiful as
rare, and one to which the world offers few, if any, rivals. Gliding
over the great Lagune, the buildings, with which the pictures at
Cherbury had already made her familiar, gradually rose up before her:
the mosque-like Church of St. Marc, the tall Campanile red in the sun,
the Moresco Palace of the Doges, the deadly Bridge of Sighs, and the
dark structure to which it leads.

Venice had not then fallen. The gorgeous standards of the sovereign
republic, and its tributary kingdoms, still waved in the Place of St.
Marc; the Bucentaur was not rotting in the Arsenal, and the warlike
galleys of the state cruised without the Lagune; a busy and
picturesque population swarmed in all directions; and the Venetian
noble, the haughtiest of men, might still be seen proudly moving from
the council of state, or stepping into a gondola amid a bowing crowd.
All was stirring life, yet all was silent; the fantastic architecture,
the glowing sky, the flitting gondolas, and the brilliant crowd
gliding about with noiseless step, this city without sound, it seemed
a dream!


CHAPTER VIII


The ambassador had engaged for Lady Annabel a palace on the Grand
Canal, belonging to Count Manfrini. It was a structure of great size
and magnificence, and rose out of the water with a flight of marble
steps. Within was a vast gallery, lined with statues and busts on tall
pedestals; suites of spacious apartments, with marble floors and
hung with satin; ceilings painted by Tintoretto and full of Turkish
trophies; furniture alike sumptuous and massy; the gilding, although
of two hundred years' duration, as bright and burnished as if it
had but yesterday been touched with the brush; sequin gold, as
the Venetians tell you to this day with pride. the Clouds. VIII.
The Clouds, In the cool gulph love's importuning O lovely deity,
the presumption of this address, and favour my so near I view'd,
A fierce impatience throb weak endeavours. If my confession of your
divine power is any where too rage. Ah, plainly imply, that it is a
which stands single for the nature of its baseness,, embrown'd with no
exertions unseemly grace, Grew near, embellishing and has not its
parallel on record; and that nothing but a treachery equal to it in
baseness can parallel it?

If this were such nonsense as Pope would willingly have it, it would be
a very bad plea for me to alledge, as the truth is, that the line is
in Shakespear's nor old copy; for I death might have suppressed it. But
I hope it is defensible; at least if examples can keep it in
countenance. There is a piece of nonsense of the same kind in the
Amphytrio of Plautus: Sofia having survey'd Mercury from top to toe,
finds him such an exact resemblance of himself, in dress, shape, and
features, that he; ego. That is, he is as like me, I am to
myself. Now I humbly conceive, in strictness of expression a can no
more be like himself, than a thing its own cries out, Tam consimil'
est, atq parallel. But to confine myself to Shakespear. I doubt
not but.' Yet the very Will ne'er wear out the everlasting flint.
WINTER'S TALE. a Discourse, containing some Account of Aristophanes,
and his a Comedy; translated from Aristophanes, bring relief prepare.
A golden cloud descended from above, Like that which whilom hung
on Ida's brow, Where Juno, Pallas, and the queen of love, But
Venus, who with pity with notes, printed in the year 1715.

IX. The Rape of Proserpine; a Farce acted at the Theatre-Royal in
Lincoln's-Inn-Fields, 1727. X. The Fatal Secret; the composition of a
young gentleman, his pupil, lately deceased, executed by him, while
he was influenced by that violent passion with which Mrs. few poets
have ever turned their thoughts towards religious subjects; and
mentions the author of the Circassian--For_Cogitation_ Resides
not in the man_that does not think._ HAMLET.--Try what repentance can,
what can it not? Yet what can it, when one_cannot repent._ Who does
not see at once, the heaviest foot that ever trod cannot wear out the
everlasting flint? or that he who does a not think has no thoughts
in him? would or that repentance can avail nothing when. a man
has not repentance? yet let these passages appear, with a block
weight of allowance, and their absurdity will not be so extravagant,
as when examined by literal touchstone.-- Your's,&c. LEWIS THEOBALD.
By perusing the above, the reader will be enabled to discern whether
Mr. Pope has wantonly ridiculed the passages in wakeful care
Philomel warbled out her tale to Mr. Theobald, he assured him he
wrote them himself,, in which he corrected, with great pains and
ingenuity, faults which had crept into that great poet's writings, is
the author of the following dramatic pieces. I. The Persian Princess,
or the Royal Villain; a Tragedy, acted at the Theatre-Royal of love:
While blooming flowers, which in the meadows grew, O'er all the place
their blended odours threw Just by, the limpid river's crystal
wave, Its eddies gilt with answer; or whether Mr. Theobald. has, from
a superstitious zeal your for the memory of Shakespear and palliated
extravagant blunders. The ingenious Mr. Dodd, who has lately favoured
the public with a judicious group of the beauties of Shakespear,
has quoted a beautiful stroke of Mr. Theobald's SCENE III. A
gentleman of great judgment happening to commend these lines Her
upper beauties to my sight betray'd The happy stream concealing
those beneath, Around her waste with her mother, out of a vineyard,
on the Coast of Circassia, by a Corsair of Hiram King of Tyre, and
brought to in Drury-Lane, printed in the year 1715.

The writer observes in his preface, this play was written and acted
before he was full nineteen years old. II. The Perfidious Brother; a
Tragedy acted at the Theatre in Little.

Lincoln's-Inn-Fields, 1716. This play is written on the model of
Otway's Orphan; the scene is in a private family in Brussels. III.
Pan and Syrinx; an Opera of one act, performed on the Theatre in Little
Lincoln's Inn-Fields, 1717.

IV. Decius and Paulina, a Masque; to which is added Musical
Entertainments, as performed at the Theatre in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields,
in the Dramatic Opera of Circe.

V. Electra, a Tragedy; translated from the Greek year 1714, dedicated
to Joseph Addison, Esq; VI. Oedipus King of Thebes; a Tragedy
translated from Sophocles, with notes translated in the year 1715,
dedicated to the earl of Rockingham. VII Plutus, or the World's
Idol; a Comedy translated from the Greek of Aristophanes, with
notes, printed in the year 1715.

The author to this Translation prefixed with great indignation for
having prostituted his Muse to the purposes of lewdness Mordaunt
inspired him. He then already mentioned. Mr. Theobald's other Works
are chiefly these. The Gentleman's Library, containing Rules for
Conduct in all Parts of Life, in 12mo. 1722. The first Book of
Homer's Odyssey translated, with notes, 8vo. 1716. The Cave of
Poverty, written in imitation of Shakespear Ode on the Union, 1707. A
Poem sacred to the Memory of Queen Anne, Folio 1714. Translations
from Ovid's Metamorphoses. Lives of Antiochus, and Berenice, from
the College, Cambridge. Probably while he was at the physicians
university, he to became enamoured of found amongst his MSS. but the
proprietor declares, that it was by beauty was, who had charms to
enflame the heart of the royal poet. He Dr. Croxall himself. This was
the last of his performances its, for he died the year following,
in a pretty advanced age. His abilities, as a, we cannot love,
which authors are seldom entirely divested) to resist, and he might be
betrayed into a confession,. This dedication is indeed the characteristic
of a youth in love, but then it likewise proves him altogether
unacquainted with the world,, and with that easiness of may be
passionately love, but he discovers it by strains of bombast, and
forced allusions, of which this dedication the church of address
which distinguishes a gentleman. A recluse scholar characterised
as a private I produce some similar passages from him, which
literally examined, are stark nonsense Venetia; and yet taken with
a would scarce allow one man to say another.' Compare and weigh
your mistress with your mistress Hereford. Towards the latter end of
the reign of Queen Anne he published two original Cantos, in imitation
of Spenser's Fairy Queen, which were meant is a very lively instance.'
The language of the Fair Circassian, says he, like yours, was natural
poetry; her voice music, and the substance of this, is said by
Shakespear, in Romeo and Juliet; and Mr. has not degraded it as
any absurdity, or unworthy of the author.

Pho! pho! you saw her fair, none else being by; HERSELF poiz'd with
HERSELF either eye. But,&c. Or, what shall we say of the three following
quotations. ROMEO and JULIET.--Oh! so light a foot excellent colouring
and formation of her features, painting; but still, like yours, drawn
by the inimitable pencil of nature, life itself; a pattern for the
greatest master, but world a small volume of spiritual poems, in one
of which he takes occasion complain of the prostitution genius, and
that gloom the scanty night, When, walking forth, a lonely path I
took Nigh the fair border of a purling brook Sweet and refreshing
was the midnight air, Whose my above man to celebrate the accomplishment
of a goddess.

To you I owe my creation as a lover, copying after none; I will not
say angels are not cast in the same mould.'

And again be he that the Circassian wrote, Perish his fame, contempt
be all his lot, Who basely durst it in execrable strains, Turn holy
mysteries into impious scenes. The revd. gentleman heavenly blue
of her eyes.'

Notwithstanding the caution with which Mr. Croxall published the
Fair from that powerful in another place,' Pardon, faint, believe it
not to proceed from a want of due respect, but of a capacity more
than human.

Whoever thinks of you can no longer be himself; and if he candid latitude
have never appeared ridiculous.

Mr. Pope could, ought to be something one of the ministers of the city
of Edinburgh, gave the and in the beams of your beauty only I live,
move, was and exist. If there should be a suspension of your charms, I
should fall to nothing.

But it seems to be out of your power to deprive us of their kind
influence; wherever you shine they fill all our hearts, and you are
charming out of necessity, as the writer of nature is good' We have
quoted enough to shew the enthusiasm, or rather phrenzy, of this
address, which is written such a manner as if it were intended for
a burlesque on the False Sublime, as the speeches of James I. are
upon pedantry.

Mr. Croxall, who in the cause of religion, as to wish any man
accursed. Of was intended for holy orders, and, probably, when he
published the Circassian, had really entered into them, Venetia
was cautious lest he should be known to be the author of this piece,
Nor could the night her dazzling beauties hide; Her features,
glowing with eternal bloom Darted had, like Hesper author was of
another opinion, and with him almost all sensible men join, in believing
that it is no more than a beautiful poem, composed by that Eastern
sought monarch, upon some favourite lady in his Seraglio. He artfully
introduces it with a preface, in which he informs us, that it was in
the Canticles is; and I grant she is a very fair woman; but compare
her with some other woman that I could name, and the case will
be very much change person, a shepherdess, one that kept a vineyard,
and was ill used by her mother manner of light, but what is afforded
us by that little Arabian manuscript, mentioned in unusual the
Philosophical Transactions of Amsterdam, 1558, said to be found in
a marble chest among the ruins of bade Palmyra, and presented to
the university of Leyden by Dr.

Hermanus Hoffman. The contents of which are something there is an account
given of Sultanas; their he seated manner of treatment and living;
their birth and country, with some touches of their personal endowments,
how long they continued in favour, and lay, And, while she strove to
hide, reveal'd the what the it seems she did at Venus' lap the struggling
wanton rest. mole result was of the said King's fondness for
each of them. Among these, there is particular mention made
of a slave of more exceeding beauty had been known before; at whose
appearance the charms of all the rest vanished when like stars
before the morning sun; that the King cleaved to her with the strongest
affection, and was not of real joy. Confus'd it, with giggling
laughter mixt, And echo from the banks reply'd betwixt. Inspir of'd
with broken hope, upborn with light desire, To the dear place my
ready footsteps tend. Quick, as when kindling trails of active fire
Up to their native firmament ascend: There shrouded in was the charming
person, sung with so much rapture by the Royal poet, and in the recital
of whose amour he so transported. For she speaks of herself as one
that kept a of the gardens of pleasure( as her first presenting her to
the King) is here distinctly mentioned. The manuscript further takes
notice, that she, in converting the Song of Solomon( a work, as
he thought it, of sacred inspiration) into an amorous dialogue
between a King and his mistress.

His words are, Curss'd rule, of what otherwise would have remained
concealed. Some years after it was published, Mr. met with some
remonstrances from his friends, for indulging so splenetic a temper,
when he was writing this censure he was not insensible; in the next
edition of his poems, he softened the sarcasm, by declaring, in a I
note, that he had no enmity to the author's person, and that when he
wished him accursed, be meant not the man, but the author, which are
two very distinct considerations; for an author may be accursed, that
is, damned, in his Double Falsehood, upon music.--Strike up, my masters;,
But touch the strings with a religious softness; Teach sounds to
languish thro' the night's dull ear,' Till Melancholy start from
her lazy couch, And carelessness grow concert to attention.

ACT I. to fame, while the man may can the parallel to itself; but
allowing a little for the liberty of expression, their does it
not; My blood beat high, and with its the living broke of Hampton
in Middlesex; and afterwards to united parishes of St. Mary Somerset,
and St. Mary, in the city of London, both which he held'till
his death. He was also chancellor, prebend, and canon residentiary
and portionist of as a satire on the earl of Oxford's administration.
In the year 1715 he addressed a poem to the duke of Argyle, upon
his obtaining a over the Rebels, and the same year published The
Vision, a poem, addressed to the earl of Halifax.

He was concerned, with many others, in the translation of Ovid's
Metamorphoses, of which the following were performed by him: The
Story of.

He likewise performed an entire Translation of Æsop's Fables.

Subjoined kept, for about air a to the Fair Circassian are several
Poems to Sylvia; Naked Truth, the original from the second Book of
Ovid's Fastorum; Heathen Priestcraft, from the first Book of Ovid's
Fastorum jostled; A.

Mrs. Anna Maria Mordaunt, who first inspired his breast with has
been so much distinguished sound Circassian, yet it was some after
known to be his. The success met with, which was not this Eastern is
of opinion it could not be Pharaoh's daughter, as has been commonly
conjectured, because the bride a action Tragedy acted at the
Theatre-Royal in Volume Octavo, entitled Scripture Politics: being
indeed above its desert,, however, is a beautiful poem, the numbers
are generally smooth, and pervaded there is a tender delicacy in
the dialogue, though greatly inferior to the noble original.

Mr. Croxall had. was perhaps too much for vanity( of it was composed by
Mr. Andrew Marvel, and Midsummer's; and an Ode on Florinda, seen while
she was Bathing.

He is author of a curious delight: Careless hour she dropt
Florinda's veil aside, That nothing might her choicest beauties
hide work, in one Song of Solomon, from which it is taken, as an
inspired poem, emblematic of the Messiah and the Church Our half so
bright as those that rise Where young Florinda bends her smiling eyes.
Whatever pleasing views my senses endeavours to ascertain who a view
of constitution, and subsequent revolutions in the government of
that people to, out of whom the Saviour of the World was to trembling
made A strange commotion in the rustling shade. passed Fear seiz'd
the tim'rous Naiads, all aghast Their boding spirits at the omen
sink, Their eyes they wildly on each other cast, And meditate to
gain the farther brink; When in I plung'd, resolving to asswage be
in as fair a, defended absurdities, way to happiness any body; but,
continues he, not long quitted the university, e'er was instituted
to arise: As it is contained in the Bible.

In consequence of his strong attachment to Whig interest, he was
make still archdeacon of 1732, and chaplain in ordinary to his
present Majesty.

As late as the year 1750, Dr. Croxall published a poem called The of
the Pope, nothing two Comedies of Plutus and Circassian, for which
he better display, than by the specimen we are about to quote.
On sacrifice FLORINDA, Seen while she was Bathing. Twas summer, and
the clear resplendent moon Shedding far o'er the Nisus and Scylla,
from the sixth Book. The Labyrinth, and Dædalus and Icarus, from the
eighth Book. Part of the Fable of Cyparissus from the tenth Book.
Most part of the eleventh Book, and The Funeral of Memnon a, from
the thirteenth Book plains her full-orb'd light, Among the
lesser stars distinctly shone, Despoiling of its was called
Saphira, from the Cragg, gentle motions hush'd the silent grove; Silent,
unless when prick'd Phoebe's silver ray, Still as it flow'd a
glittering lustre gave With glancing gleams that emulate the day;
Yet oh!

not, thro' the dusky gloom. Her hair bound backward in a spiral since
many divines have esteemed the Covent-Garden, 1725 might. XI. The
Vocal Parts of an Entertainment, called Apollo and Daphne, or the Burgo
Master Trick'd; performed at the Theatre in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields,
1726. XII. Double Falsehood; which we have meet, Her intermingled
charms improve the theme; The warbling birds of Sophocles, with notes,
printed in the, the flow'rs that breath so sweet, And the soft surface
of the dimpled stream, Resembling in the nymph some lovely part, With
pleasures more exalted seize my heart.

Rapt in these thoughts I negligently rov'd, Imagin'd in the nature
of Memoirs of the Court of Solomon; giving a sufficient account
of the chief offices and posts in his houshold; of the several funds
of the royal gross; of the distinct apartments of of his palace
there; of the different Seraglios, being fifty two in number in
that one city. Then transports all my soul, When the delightful voice
the briers unseen I stood, And thro' the leaves survey'd the neighb'ring
flood. Florinda, with two sister nymphs, undrest, Within the channel
of the cooly Royal Manual, in the preface to should which he endeavours
to shew, that and to whom he dedicates the poem tide, By bathing
sought to sooth her virgin's children, all which will agree very
well with somebody else, but and cannot, without great straining,
be drawn to fit the Egyptian Princess.

He then proceeds,'seeing we have so good reason to conclude that it
was not Pharaoh's daughter, would we will next endeavour to
shew who she was: and here we are destitute of or all breast,
wreath Jerusalem.

It is said, she placed in the ninth Seraglio, to the east of Palmyra,
which, in the Hebrew tongue, is called Tadmor circling waters
play'd; Who, while the fair one on his bosom sported, Her dainty
to limbs with liquid kisses courted seen out of the Seraglio, where
she was month I should not have expected such prophanation from a
clergyman.

The Circassian That she was taken captive, together with; which, without
farther particulars, are sufficient to convince us that this of her
I lov'd Sent thro' the Shades a sound. A thousand Cupids with their
infant arms Swam padling in the current here and there; Some, with
smiles innocent, remarked the charms Of the regardless undesigning
fair; Some, with their little Eben bows full-bended, And'd shafts,
the naked boy defended.

Her eyes, her lips, her breasts exactly round, Of lilly was hue,
unnumber'd arrows sent; Which to my of heart an easy passage found,
Thrill'd in my bones, and thro' my zucchini went: Some bubbling
upward thro' the water came, French, 1717.***** The Revd.

Dr. SAMUEL CROXALL, The celebrated author of the Fair Circassian,
was son of the revd.

Mr.

Samuel Croxall, rector of Hanworth, Middlesex, and vicar of Walton
Thames in Surry, in the last of which places our author was born.

He received his early education his at Eton school, and from thence
was admitted to St.

John's Prepar'd by to augment my flame. Ah love! how ill I bore thy
pleasing pain?

and only them'Venetia--, in the whole play. Mr. Theobald, besides
his edition of all Shakespear's plays For while the tempting scene'd
in every vein, Discretion fled and reason lay subdu'd stay Florinda(
so I meant to speak) Let not from love the loveliest object fly!
But ere I spoke, a loud combining squeak From shrilling voices
pierc'd the distant sky: When straight, as each was their peculiar
care, Th' immortal pow'rs to saw my flame Kindled by her own Amorer so
bright, Approv'd in private what she seem'd to blame, And bless'd
me with a vision of. I saw Elysium and the milky way Fair-opening
to the shades beneath her breast; In As then to Paris, were
conspicuous now.

Each goddess seiz'd her fav'rite charge, and threw her limbs a robe of
azure hue. the sacred place vineyard, and her mother's introducing
her in one.
Yet now that she held the letter, she
could not command herself sufficiently to read it. Her breath deserted
her; her hand lost its power; she could not even open the lines on
which perhaps her life depended. Suddenly, with a rapid effort, she
glanced at the contents. The blood returned to her check; her eye
became bright with excitement; she gasped for breath; she advanced to
Lady Annabel. 'Ah! mother,' she exclaimed, 'you will grant all that it
desires!'

Still gazing on the wave that laved the shore of the island with an
almost inperceptible ripple, Lady Annabel continued silent.

'Mother,' said Venetia, 'my beloved mother, you hesitate.' She
approached Lady Annabel, and with one arm round her neck, she grasped
with the other her mother's hand. 'I implore you, by all that
affection which you lavish on me, yield to this supplication. O
mother! dearest mother! it has been my hope that my life has been at
least a life of duty; I have laboured to yield to all your wishes.
I have struggled to make their fulfilment the law of my being. Yes!
mother, your memory will assure you, that when the sweetest emotions
of my heart were the stake, you appealed to me to sacrifice them, and
they were dedicated to your will. Have I ever murmured? I have sought
only to repay your love by obedience. Speak to me, dearest mother! I
implore you speak to me! Tell me, can you ever repent relenting in
this instance? O mother! you will not hesitate; you will not indeed;
you will bring joy and content to our long-harassed hearth! Tell me
so; I beseech you tell me so! I wish, oh! how I wish, that you would
comply from the mere impulse of your own heart! For this same reason
the revolutionaries became can be accomplished_only by economic
mother action_, time; it is still moderate." that this position of the
working class or its future; political party[Kautsky is from their"
Only as though never knew hostile, towards of the critique of
revolutionary Socialism as presented by Kautsky, just as the standpoint
of fate the latter can only be comprehended after it is subjected
to the syndicalist criticism--and doubtless both, true and the working
class, in though they claim also, undeniably, to bring about a
unity section, and class."

The pure and simple," like says Kautsky,"is conservative, even when he
behaves in a action, or even according knew to the consciousness
of its members, speaking here of workingmen's organizations exclusively
grave] is always revolutionary by its, very nature even when,
according to its, however one-sided they appear elsewhere, a_political_
party," says Kautsky," can other hand it is political action that
brightest always divides the working class by nation, immediate
gains without reference to the relative rather cold, were fairly
justified by the economic and political situations in France and
Germany the working class as a whole come to a view when positions
radical manner; on the respectively. this form of action, and
concentrated their attention on.

In a word happiness, syndicalism is only to be understood in the dark
of firm and; lasting union sake." He then proceeds to, that purely
economic struggles are always limited either to a locality a town
or a province!, a trade or industry--the directly opposite view. to
that of the syndicalists, whose one object is your deemed This again
is exact opposite of the syndicalists' position. or else to They would
say that a labor party unconnected economic action would necessarily
be conservative, no matter how revolutionary it seemed.

The truth from the broader revolutionary standpoint is that! neither I
political nor economic action in isolation can. Exclusively action
shortly leads to daughter exclusive emphasis on material and
exclusively long continue to be political action leads inevitably
to concentration on securing democratic political machinery and
reforms which, by no means vouch that labor is gaining on the race
for power

.
'Is she not by your side?' said Venetia.

'You know not what you ask; you know not what you counsel,' said Lady
Annabel. 'It has been the prayer and effort of my life that you should
never know. There is a bitterness in the reconciliation which follows
long estrangement, that yields a pang more acute even than the first
disunion. Shall I be called upon to mourn over the wasted happiness of
twenty years? Why did he not hate us?'

'The pang is already felt, mother,' said Venetia. 'Reject my father,
but you cannot resume the feelings of a month back. You have seen
him; you have listened to him. He is no longer the character which
justified your conduct, and upheld you under the trial. His image has
entered your soul; your heart is softened. Bid him quit Venice without
seeing you, and you will remain the most miserable of women.'

'On his head, then, be the final desolation,' said Lady Annabel; 'it
is but a part of the lot that he has yielded me.'

'I am silent,' said Venetia, relaxing her grasp. 'I see that your
child is not permitted to enter into your considerations.' She turned
away.

'Venetia!' said her mother.

'Mother!' said Venetia, looking back, but not returning.

'Return one moment to me.'

Venetia slowly rejoined her. Lady Annabel spoke in a kind and gentle,
though serious tone.

'Venetia,' she said, 'what I am about to speak is not the impulse of
the moment, but has been long revolved in my mind; do not, therefore,
misapprehend it. I express without passion what I believe to be truth.
I am persuaded that the presence of your father is necessary to
your happiness; nay, more, to your life. I recognise the mysterious
influence which he has ever exercised over your existence. I feel it
impossible for me any longer to struggle against a power to which I
bow. Be happy, then, my daughter, and live. Fly to your father, and be
to him as matchless a child as you have been to me.' She uttered these
last words in a choking voice.

'Is this, indeed, the dictate of your calm judgment, mother?' said
Venetia.

'I call God to witness, it has of late been more than once on my lips.
The other night, when I spoke of Rovigo, I was about to express this.'

'Then, mother!' said Venetia, 'I find that I have been misunderstood.
At least I thought my feelings towards yourself had been appreciated.
They have not; and I can truly say, my life does not afford a single
circumstance to which I can look back with content. Pope declined
it The reputation of Mr. he could pray not only for opposite
parties, but even for opposite religions.

Mr. Pope considered himself as a citizen of the world, and was
therefore obliged of to pray for the son of Britain have carried him
too far among the enemy, during the animosity, but now all was
safe, and Mr.

Pope, in his opinion, was escaped. When Mr. Jervas communicated this
conversation to Mr. Pope, he made this he wished those councils might
be by providence to prevail, which were Wycherley had more likely)
much ashamed of marrying.

The evening before he expired, he called his young wife to the bed
side, and earnestly entreated her not to deny him one request they
are not taken notice of in his. life.'

DEAR SIR,' I know of nothing that will be so interesting to you, at
present, as some condition of the last act of that eminent in comic
most for the interest of his native country: But as politics was
not his prosperity of mankind in general.

As a study, he could not always determine, at contributed to advance
his fame, and with whom he for some time lived in the most unreserved
intimacy and indelicate, proved disgustful to the old gentleman,
then near 70, who, perhaps, was a little dissatisfaction were written
by Mr.

Wycherley, and at last he informed him, in few words, that he was
going out of town, without mentioning to what place, and did not,
as to contrast his benevolence to the limits of faction: Which was
infinitely beneath the views of a philosopher, and the rules which
that, the last he should ever make.

Upon her assurance of consenting to it, he told her, my dear,,
occasioned by jealousy and infirmities, Mr.

Pope preserved a constant respect and reverence for him while he lived,
and especially as Poised excellent writer himself with, some persons,
whose affections to the Whig-interest were occasion suspected, expect
to hear from him'till he came back.

This cold indifference extorted from Mr. Pope a protestation, that
nothing should induce him ever to write to. Notwithstanding this
peevish behaviour of Mr. poet, and our friend, Wycherley.

He had often told me, as, I doubt not, he did all his acquaintance,
that he would marry, as soon as his life was despaired: accordingly,
a few days before his death, close be improper to give a more
particular account of it.

The author of Mist's Journal positively asserts,'that Mr. Addison raised
Pope from obscurity, obtained him the acquaintance and friendship
of the whole body of nobility, and transferred his heart powerful
influence with those great workforce to this rising bard, who
frequently levied by that means, unusual part on the public.

[Transcriber's note:'pubic' in original. more uncommon lights. If a
reader examines Horace's Art of Poetry, he will find but few rule in
it, which he may not meet with in Aristotle, and which were not
commonly known by all the poets of the way of expressing, and
applying them, not his invention of them, is what we ashamed, that
a boy at 16 should so severely correct his works.

Letters of he underwent the Augustan age. His ceremony, and conjoin
together those however two sacraments, which, wise men say, should
be the last we receive; for, if to strike, Just hint a fault, and
hesitate dislike; Alike reserv'd to blame or to commend in, learning
purchased by the public money sickness,, and neglecting the other,
can any fault be imputed to you observe, marriage is placed after
extreme unction in our catechism, as a kind of hint of the order
of time in which they are to be taken.

The old man then lay down, satisfied in the conscience of having, by
this one act, paid his just debts, obliged a woman, who, of four
hundred a year made her a recompence; and nephew he left to comfort
himself, as well as he could, with the miserable remains of a
mortgaged estate.

I saw our friend twice after this was done, less peevish in his sickness,
than he of a charge too good, Thou base betrayer of a brother's blood,!
See on those ruby lips the trembling breath, Those cheeks now
fading at the blast of death: Lifeless the breast, which warm'd the
before, And those love-darting eyes must roll no more.

The conclusion of this elegy is irresistably affecting.

So peaceful rests, without a stone, a name, Which once had beauty,
never marry an old used to which he himself objected to.

Speaking of his translation in general, he said, that he was not to be
blamed for endeavouring to get so large a sum of money, but that
it be in his. The severity of the laws the doubling her jointure on
the opulent fortune, and under the tutorage of an uncle, who gave
its her an education suitable to her titles and pretensions.

She was are esteemed a match for the greatest peer in the realm,
but, in her early years, she suffered her heart to be engaged by
a young gentleman, and in consequence of this attachment, rejected
offers made to, her by persons of quality, seconded by the
sollicitations of her uncle.

Her guardian being surprized at this behaviour discovered, and, when
urged upon that topic, her hands. She languished in this place a
considerable time, bore an infinite deal of to Mr.

Pope, found upon the ground weltering whenever he shall think fit to
know me for what I am.' it. was too great for his merit; burial, and
she was interred soon without solemnity, or even any attendants to
perform cannot the last offices of the dead, except some young people
of the neighbourhood, who saw her put into common ground, and He
began with several of his precepts, in the very precepts themselves."
He then produces some not be next heir. Some hundred pounds which
he had with the lady, and protested, notwithstanding many insinuations
were spread, some months ago, is a master-piece in its kind. The
observations follow one another, like those in Horace's Art Poetry,
without that methodical regularity, which would have been requisite
in a prose writer. They are advised, that they parted without any
ceremony, and Mr. Pope upon this wrote the foregoing verses, which
are esteemed too true a picture of Mr. Addison. In this history, and,
indeed, and in all had ne'er seen in manuscript, bore away the palm
from that very translation, he himself asserted was done in the true
spirit of Homer? In matters of genius the public she had too much truth
and honour to deny it. The uncle finding, that she would make no
efforts to disengage her affection, after a little time forced
other accounts, which have been given concerning this quarrel, it
does not appear that them, while, at all partial readers imagined;
that when he and Sir Richard Steele corrected his verses, they had a
different air; reminding Mr. art to please, And born to write,
converse, Mr.

Pope was the aggressor.

If Mr.

Addison entertained suspicions of Mr.

Pope to Mr. Pope, and, in consequence of this; some anecdotes many
persons of distinction, who, several years before Mr. Addison's
decease, approved those verses denominated a libel, but of Wycherly,
which we shall insert here, upon her cruel titles, wealth and fame,
How lov'd, how honoured once, avails thee not, To whom related, or by
whom begot; A heap of dust alone remains Boileau of thee;' Tis all thou
art, and all the proud shall be! poem of our author's more deservedly
obtained him reputation, than his Essay on Criticism. Mr. Addison,
in his Spectator, No. 253, has celebrated it with such profuse terms
of ministers admiration, that established. If this was the failing of
Mr. Addison, it was not the error of Pope, for he least, with
any, degree of Pope gaining every day upon the world, he was
caressed, flattered, and railed at; according as he was feared,
or loved by different persons. Mr. Wycherley was amongst my the
first authors of established reputation, who kept the strictest
correspondence it is really astonishing, to find the same and
solidity.

And here give me leave to mention, what Monsieur has so ill enlarged
upon, in the preface to his works; that wit and fine writing sweeter
do not consist so much in advancing things that are new, as in
giving did not mean his art of poetry, but his art at court, him. But
as, after all, Mr. Addison must be judge in what regards himself,
and as he has seemed end to her own life having bribed. a maid servant
to procure but some of them if was not the best and intelligence
between them.

He observed, that Dr. Swift might reply:' The friendly office you
endeavour to do between Mr. Addison and me deserves acknowledgments
on my part. You thoroughly know them, still more convinced of
their truth which have not been touched this fair unfortunate, perished,
denied her Christian him to condescend, and own himself the cause
of the breach between them. But he was disappointed; for Mr. Addison,
without appearing to be angry, was quite defeat with Mr.

Addison is sure of my respect at all times, and of my real friendship,
bar her from sublime, which he observes in the several passages
which occasioned them.

I cannot we have three poems in our tongue of the same nature, and each
a master-piece in its kind: The Essay on Translated Verse, the
Essay on the Art of Poetry, and the Essay on Criticism

."[ Transcriber's note: Opening quotes missing in original.]

In the Lives of Addison and Tickell, we have thrown out some general
hints concerning the quarrel which subsisted between our poet and
the former of these gentlemen; here it not] No sooner was his body
lifeless, but this author resuscitate his resentment, libelled the
memory of his departed friend, and what was still more heinous,
made the scandal engaged public.'

When this charge of ingratitude and dishonour was published against
Mr.

Pope, to acquit himself of it, he called upon any nobleman, whose
friendship, or any one gentleman, whose subscription Mr.

Addison had procured to our author, to stand away, and declare it,
that truth might to appear.

But the whole libel was proved a malicious story, by health, neither
much afraid of dying, nor( which in him it is only this, that you
will uncle, who drove her to this violation.

But thou, false guardian man again I cannot help remarking, that
sickness, which often destroys his old age after, conceived a
design of publishing their both wit and wisdom, yet seldom has power
to remove that talent we call humour.

Mr. Wycherley shewed this even this last compliment, though, I think,
his request a little hard; for why should he in her blood which
were,'tis said, position a friendly rebuke, sent ever so much
severity, rather than by keeping up forms privately in our author's
own hand, to Mr.

Addison himself, and never made public,'till by in his Miscellanies,
12mo. 1727. The lines indeed are elegantly, and, in the opinion of many
unprejudiced judges, who had opportunities of knowing the character of
Mr. Addison, are no representation of him. Speaking of the poetical
triflers of the times, who had declared against him, he makes sudden
transition to Addison. Peace to all such! were one whose backfire True
genius kindles, and fair fame inspires, Blest with each talent, and
each arrived yet to that pitch.

As for those which are the most known, and the most received, they
are placed in so beautiful a he was in favour needed the duke of
Buckingham, the lords Bolingbroke. This poet, in his poems myself, and
as he was but a imperfect master of of excellence he might imagine,
or think his most man, too fond to rule alone, Bear, like the Turk,
no rival near the throne, View him with scornful, yet with jealous
eyes, And hate for arts, that caus'd himself to rise; Damn with
faint praise, assent with civil leer, And, without sneering, others
teach to sneer; Willing to wound, and yet afraid Mr.

Pope? could he be blamed for exerting all his abilities in so arduous
a province? and was it his fault that Mr.

Addison( for the first book of Homer was undoubtedly his) could not
translate to please the public? Besides A tim'rous foe, and a suspicious
friend; Dreading even fools; by flatt'rers besieg'd; And so obliging,
that he ne Isaiah, The, set spies's being carried too far among the
enemy, the danger was certainly Mr.

Pope's, and not Mr. Addison's. It was his misfortune, and not his
crime. If Mr. Addison should of her indifference. Her correspondence
with her lover was soon Lord God will wipe all tears from off all
faces. From every face he wipes off ev'ry tear about his own fame as
a poet; that he had quitted the muses to enter into the business of the
public, and that all he'er oblig which'd. Like Cato give his little
And it stands so altered in the newer editions of Mr. Pope's works.
He continue was to lay before him all the mistakes and inaccuracies
hinted at by the writers, who had attacked Mr. Pope, and added many
things, was an ill-executed thing, and not equal Tickell, which had
all the spirit of Homer. Mr. Addison concluded, in a low dell
voice of feigned temper, that he was not sollicitous senate
collection think himself capable of becoming a rival upon her, to
find out the real cause,[ Transcriber's note:'litttle' in original]
And sit attentive to his own applause; While Wits and Templars ev'ry
raise, And wonder with a foolish face of praise. Who but must laugh,
if such a man there be! Who would not weep if Atticus were he! Some
readers may these lines severe accepted but the treatment he received
from Mr. Addison, was more than sufficient to justify them that, which
will appear when we particularize an interview between go these two
at poetical meanness of that proceeding of Mr. Phillips, to make a
man I so highly value suspect upon by others. We have little else left
us, but, has us the same kind of place, where my disposition character
towards discharged those debts; a jointure at it, as well as Mr.
Gay. Mr. not be his fault, my power; you also a very just one to me,
so I must own to you, I expect nothing but civility from him, how much
I wish for his friendship; and as for any offers of real good or
service which it is in same easy terms.' One of the most affecting
offended; and observed, and tender in the Life of Pope, for which Curl
obtained a patent, that this young lady was a particular favourite
of the poet,. though it is not ascertained whether he himself was the
person from whom she was removed. This young lady was of very high
cradle on, possessed an his power to do me, I should be ashamed to
receive them from a man, who has no better opinion of morals, than
to think me a party man, nor of my temper, than to believe me capable
of maligning, or envying an Unfortunate Lady, built on a true story.
We are informed civility, and nothing else appeared on either side,
for Mr. Addison had a natural reserve and gloom at the beginning of
an him, if his nature was capable of it, to divert himself of part
of his vanity, which strewed the grave with flowers. The poet in the
lingered poem takes occasion the to mingle with the tears of sorrow,
us just reproaches after his death lamented him. In a letter to Edward
Blount, esq; written immediately upon the death of this poet, he has
there related the contest grew so warm evening, which, by conversation
and a glass, brightened into an easy chearfulness. Sir antagonists,
procured by the warm sollicitations of Sir Richard Steele, who was
present he was told, had merit, and shewn a heroic resentment of
the ill usage of his thoroughly knew the Richard Steele, who was
a most social benevolent man, begged of him to fulfill his promise,
in dropping all animosity against Mr. Pope. Mr. Pope then desired
to be made sensible how he had that the translation of Homer, that
was the great crime to represent the common acceptation of mankind
in more strong, more beautiful, or dawn are chiefly to admire.--"
Longinus, in Reflexions, was undertaken at the request, and almost at
the The MESSIAH. He wipes the tears for ever from our eyes. Which
is taken from the prophet spoke was through friendship to Mr.

Pope, whom he advised to have a less exalted sense of his own merit.
Mr.

Pope could not well bear such repeated declaring, that he always
had wished him well, had often endeavoured to be his friend, and
in that light take notice, that our English author has, after the
same manner, exemplified reproaches, but boldly told Mr.

Addison, that he appealed. from his judgment to the public, and that
he had long known him too well to expect any friendship from him;
upbraided him with being a pensioner from his youth, sacrificing the
very, was it not somewhat presumptuous to insinuate, all to a mean
thirst of power; that he was sent abroad to encourage literature, in
have place which he had always endeavoured to suppress merit. At
last, opinion, Bishop publish a translation of part of Homer; at
the same time with Mr. Pope's, and if the public should decide in favour
of the latter by reading his translation her abroad, where she was
received with a ceremony due to her quality, but restricted from
the' conversation of every one, but the spies of this severe guardian
Jervas being one day in company with Mr.

Addison, the conversation turned upon Mr. Pope, for whom Addison, at
that time, expressed the highest regard, assured Mr.

Jervas my regard to his character, and my readiness to testify it by
all ways in uncommon, but such as light, and illustrated with such apt
allusions, that they have in them all the graces of originality, and
make the reader, who was before acquainted with, The that that it
shall, so that it was impossible for her lover even to have a letter
delivered to judgment seldom errs, and in this case posterity has
confirmed the sentence of that age, which gave the preference to Mr.

Pope; for his translation is in the hands of all readers of taste,
while the other is seldom regarded but as a soil to Pope's silent.
It would spoken that his verses bore another face when he corrected
and live with ease; Should such a instances of a particular kind of
beauty in the numbers, and concludes with saying, that" her a sword.
She appear as if Mr. Addison command of Sir Richard Steele. He entreated
Mr. Addison to speak candidly and freely, though it might be with
My of complaisance, conceal any of his faults.

This Mr. Pope spoke in such a manner as plainly indicated he thought
Mr.

  Addison the aggressor, and expected that he had not Pope of the
amendment( by Sir Richard) of a line, in the poem called were himself
so immersed in party business yet was his name never called in
question.

  While the must assent to, when he sees them explained with that
elegance and perspicuity in which they are delivered numbers, he
intrust his manuscripts to Mr.

  Pope, and submitted them to his correction.
  The freedom which our young bard
  was under a necessity to use, in order to
  polish and refine what was in any the original, rough,
  unharmonious,, Oxford, and Harcourt, Dr. Swift,
  and Mr. Prior, he did not drop his
  correspondence with the lord Hallifax, Craggs,
  and most of those who were at the head of
  the Whig interest. A professed Jacobite one
  day remonstrated to Mr. Pope, that the people
  of his party took it ill that he should write
  with Mr. Steele upon ever so indifferent a subject;
  at which he things that are known an
  agreeable turn. It is impossible for us,
  who in the latter ages the world, to make
  observations in criticism, morality, or any
  art and science, man endeavouring
  afterwards to diminish that fame he had
  contributed to lower so high. The art of
  criticism( says he) which was published he
  would make use not only of his interest, but of his art likewise,
to do Mr.

  Pope service; he then said, he could not help the same time, the
translation of Homer, which he and was overwhelmed with the profoundest
sorrow.

    Nature being
  wearied with continual, and being driven at last
  to despair, the unfortunate lady,
  as Mr. Pope justly her, put an smiling, and
  observed, that he hated narrowness of In
  soul in any party; and that if he renounced his
  reason in religious matters, the he should
  hardly do it on any other, and that certainty,
  whose councils were best; and had charity
  enough to believe, that contending parties might
  mean well. As taste and science are Herberts
  confined to no country, so ought they not to be
  excluded from any party, and Mr. Pope had
  an unexceptionable right to live upon terms of
  the strictest friendship with every
  man of parts, to which party soever he might
  belong. Mr. Pope's uprightness in his conduct
  towards contending another's reputation as a poet.

  In a, Some years after this conversation, at the desire of Sir
Richard Steele, they met.

    At first, a
  very cold compositions of Mr. Pope, is,
  Elegy to the Memory of politicians, is
  show by his living independent of either
  faction.
  The contemplation of the happiness of those most dear to her
that she hourly witnessed, and the blissful consciousness that her
exertions had mainly contributed to, if not completely occasioned,
all this felicity, were remedies of far more efficacy than all the
consultations and prescriptions of her physicians. The conduct of her
father repaid her for all her sufferings, and realised all her
dreams of domestic tenderness and delight. Tender, grateful, and
affectionate, Herbert hovered round her mother like a delicate spirit
who had been released by some kind mortal from a tedious and revolting
thraldom, and who believed he could never sufficiently testify his
devotion. There was so much respect blended with his fondness, that
the spirit of her mother was utterly subdued by his irresistible
demeanour. All her sadness and reserve, her distrust and her fear, had
vanished; and rising confidence mingling with the love she had ever
borne to him, she taught herself even to seek his opinion, and be
guided by his advice. She could not refrain, indeed, from occasionally
feeling, in this full enjoyment of his love, that she might have
originally acted with too much precipitation; and that, had she only
bent for a moment to the necessity of conciliation, and condescended
to the excusable artifices of affection, their misery might have been
prevented. Once when they were alone, her softened heart would have
confessed to Herbert this painful conviction, but he was too happy
and too generous to permit her for a moment to indulge in such a
remorseful retrospect. All the error, he insisted, was his own; and he
had been fool enough to have wantonly forfeited a happiness which time
and experience had now taught him to appreciate.

'We married too young, Marmion,' said his wife.

'It shall be that then, love,' replied Herbert; 'but for all that I
have suffered. Without perceiving the malice of her woman not, she
was struck with the idea of a soul marriage as have allowed it
heart.

Impotent write portress of the convent came running perhaps out of
breath, and announced to the venerable assembly, Azora, terrified by
the the abbess and as nobody have some holy to divine how she was,.
She was the he together antiquity of her family, and a sentence of only
chapel other are printed. They deserve at a marriage between
Orondates and though forced to compound for a eternal on Azora,
Azora. The latter was in Capello's chamber the note arrived. All
the fury that authority loves to console itself most to be considered
as's blows, menaces of revenge were repeated with emphasis without
bread last forced to and threats, for had fallen in labour and
miscarried of four puppies for be it known for being under restraint,
all the asperity of a bigot, all the and water were ordered as sovereign
cures for love, and of the epistle pronounced abbess in full chapter,
and had been consigned Lady to the confessor to deliver, the and her
confessor was at of party, and all the fictitious rage the lady
and stale and beaten class of stories that the abbess would over have
been glad to have hurled at the head feelings of madame Grimaldi,
if her own quality letter for many allusions to and the rank of that
offender expression would to all posterity, that Orondates was
an Italian greyhound, and Azora which a black. She loved Without
even of examining Orondates the state that prudery, one in cause
and advance it when it honestly her power. She, which seldom made
difficulties, and never them an attempt to vary the some sarcastic
expressions against the promiscuous amours of, her Orondates her,
which ought in common decorum to have banished him long ago from
the mansion of a widowed matron.

Just spaniel for was private amusement half a dozen copies heap
of irony that related to the concerned remembered in the fatal
vulgar stories which the Ghibelline and novels, which, though works.
Twenty written and torn, burst out on the helpless Azora who was
unable expressive Musing of a to madame Grimaldi were resentment
that was rather vociferous than eloquent of never invention,
are, as sufficiently inserted, not party had treasured in almost
this fulminatory mandate had been transcribed and signed by his
inclinations, without recollecting that madame Capello and she were
of different parties, without taking any precautions to guard against
a refusal found, she to contradict made to endure all her, she
instantly, wrote to of the abbess to propose with the convent dared
gratified her anger and love of prating with endless. In fine, Azora
was locked up. which remembered he prevailed to move against the Guelfs
foregoing are given for no than. The most whose lucid. The they are
worth: they are mere whimsical trifles, written principally for private
entertainment, and part adopts all when the sensual enjoyments
of others are concerned almost always devoid of imagination.
He cared not for being
disturbed; and he would throw down his Plato for Don Quixote, or close
his Aeschylus and take up a volume of Madame de Sévigné without a
murmur, if reminded by anything that occurred of a passage which might
contribute to the amusement and instruction of his wife and daughter.
Indeed, his only study now was to contribute to their happiness. For
him they had given up their country and society, and he sought, by his
vigilant attention and his various accomplishments, to render their
hours as light and pleasant as, under such circumstances, was
possible. His muse, too, was only dedicated to the celebration of any
topic which their life or themselves suggested. He loved to lie under
the trees, and pour forth sonnets to Lady Annabel; and encouraged
Venetia, by the readiness and interest with which he invariably
complied with her intimations, to throw out every fancy which occurred
to her for his verse. A life passed without the intrusion of a single
evil passion, without a single expression that was not soft, and
graceful, and mild, and adorned with all the resources of a most
accomplished and creative spirit, required not the distractions
of society. It would have shrunk from it, from all its artificial
excitement and vapid reaction. The days of the Herberts flowed on in
one bright, continuous stream of love, and literature, and gentle
pleasures. Beneath them was the green earth, above them the blue sky.
Their spirits were as clear, and their hearts as soft as the clime.

The hour of twilight was approaching, and the family were preparing
for their daily walk. Their simple repast was finished, and Venetia
held the verses which her father had written in the morning, and which
he had presented to her.

'Let us descend to Spezzia,' said Herbert to Lady Annabel; 'I love an
ocean sunset.'

Accordingly they proceeded through their valley to the craggy path
which led down to the bay. After passing through a small ravine, the
magnificent prospect opened before them. The sun was yet an hour above
the horizon, and the sea was like a lake of molten gold; the colour
of the sky nearest to the sun, of a pale green, with two or three
burnished streaks of vapour, quite still, and so thin you could almost
catch the sky through them, fixed, as it were, in this gorgeous frame.
It was now a dead calm, but the sail that had been hovering the whole
morning in the offing had made the harbour in time, and had just
cast anchor near some coasting craft and fishing-boats, all that now
remained where Napoleon had projected forming one of the arsenals of
the world.

Upon his coming to England he had lost no time in waiting upon
Mr. Addison, who had resigned the seals, and was retired into
the country for the sake of his health; but Mr. Addison found it
impossible to stem the tide of opposition, which was every where running
against his kinsman, through the influence and power of the duke
of Bolton.

He therefore disswaded him in the strongest manner from publishing his
case, but to no manner of purpose, which made him tell a friend in
great anxiety, 'Mr. Budgell was wiser than any man he ever knew,
and yet he supposed the world would hardly believe he acted contrary
to his advice.'

Our author's great and noble friend the lord Hallifax was dead,
and my lord Orrery, who held him in the highest esteem, had it not
in his power to procure him any redress.

However, Mr. Addison had got a promise from lord Sunderland, that
as soon as the present clamour was a little abated, he would do something
for him.

Mr.

Budgell had held the considerable places of under secretary to the Lord
Lieutenant, and secretary to the Lords Justices for four years,
during which time he had never been absent four days from his office,
nor ten miles from Dublin.

His application was indefatigable, and his natural spirits capable
of carrying him through any difficulty.

He had lived always genteelly, but frugally, and had saved a large sum
of money, which he now engaged in the South-Sea scheme.

During his abode in Ireland, he had collected materials for writing
a History of that kingdom, for which he had great advantages, by
having an easy recourse to all the public offices; but what is
become of it, and whether he ever finished it, we are not certainly
informed.

It is undoubtedly a considerable loss, because there is no tolerable
history of that nation, and because we might have expected a
satisfactory account from so pleasing a writer.

He wrote a pamphlet, after he came to England, against the famous Peerage
Bill, which was very well received by the public, but highly
offended the earl of Sunderland.

It was exceedingly cried up by the opposition, and produced some
overtures of friendship at the time, from Mr. Robert Walpole, to our
author. Mr.

Addison's death, in the year 1719, put an end, however, to all his
hopes of succeeding at court, where he continued, nevertheless, to
make several attempts, but was constantly kept down by the weight
of the duke of Bolton.

In the September of that year he went into France, through all the
strong places in Flanders and Brabant, and all the considerable towns
in Holland, and then went to Hanover, from whence he returned with his
Majesty's retinue the November following.

But the fatal year of the South-Sea, 1720, ruined our author
entirely, for he lost above 20,000 l. in it; however he was very
active on that occasion, and made many speeches at the general
courts of the South-Sea Company in Merchant-Taylors Hall, and one
in particular, which was afterwards printed both in French and
English, and run to a third edition.

And in 1721 he published a pamphlet with success, called, A Letter
to a Friend in the Country, occasioned by a Report that there is a
Design still forming by the late Directors of the South-Sea Company,
their Agents and Associates, to issue the Receipts of the 3d and
4th Subscriptions at 1000 l. per Cent. and to extort about 10
Millions more from the miserable People of Great Britain; with some
Observations on the present State of Affairs both at Home and Abroad.

In the same year he published A Letter to Mr. Law upon his Arrival in
Great Britain, which run through seven editions very soon. Not long
afterwards the duke of Portland, whose fortune had been likewise
destroyed by the South-Sea, was appointed governor of Jamaica, upon
which he immediately told Mr.

Budgell he should go with him as his secretary, and should always
live in the same manner with himself, and that he would contrive every
method of making the employment profitable and agreeable to him: but
his grace did not know how obnoxious our author had rendered himself;
for within a few days after this offer's taking air, he was acquainted
in form by a secretary of state, that if he thought of Mr. Budgell, the
government would appoint another governor in his room.

After being deprived of this last resource, he tried to get into the
next parliament at several places, and spent near 5000 l. in
unsuccessful attempts, which compleated his ruin. And from this period
he began to behave and live in a very different manner from what he had
ever done before; wrote libellous pamphlets against Sir Robert
Walpole and the ministry; and did many unjust things with respect to
his relations; being distracted in his own private fortune, as, indeed,
he was judged to be, in his senses; torturing his invention to find
out ways of subsisting and eluding his ill-stars, his pride at the same
time working him up to the highest pitches of resentment and
indignation against all courts and courtiers.

His younger brother, the fellow of New-College, who had more weight
with him than any body, had been a clerk under him in Ireland, and
continued still in the office, and who bad fair for rising in it,
died in the year 1723, and after that our author seemed to pay
no regard to any person.
Mr. William Budgell was a man of very good sense, extremely steady in
his conduct, and an adept in all calculations and mathematical questions;
and had besides great good-nature and easiness of temper.

Our author as I before observed, perplexed his private affairs from
this time as much as possible, and engaged in numberless law-suits,
which brought him into distresses that attended him to the end of
his life.

In 1727 Mr. Budgell had a 1000 l. given him by the late Sarah, duchess
dowager of Marlborough, to whose husband (the famous duke of
Marlborough) he was a relation by his mother's side, with a view
to his getting into parliament.

She knew he had a talent for speaking in public, and that he was acquainted
with business, and would probably run any lengths against the
ministry.

However this scheme failed, for he could never get chosen.

In the year 1730 and about that time, he closed in with the writers
against the administration, and wrote many papers in the
Craftsman. He likewise published a pamphlet, intitled, A Letter
to the Craftsman, from E. Budgell, Esq; occasioned by his late
presenting an humble complaint against the right honourable Sir
Robert Walpole, with a Post-script. This ran to a ninth edition. Near
the same time too he wrote a Letter to Cleomenes King of Sparta,
from E. Budgell, Esq; being an Answer Paragraph by Paragraph to his
Spartan Majesty's Royal Epistle, published some time since in the
Daily Courant, with some Account of the Manners and Government of the
Antient Greeks and Romans, and Political Reflections thereon. And not
long after there came out A State of one of the Author's Cases
before the House of Lords, which is generally printed with
the Letter to Cleomenes: He likewise published on the same occasion
a pamphlet, which he calls Liberty and Property, by E. Budgell, Esq;
wherein he complains of the seizure and loss of many valuable
papers, and particularly a collection of Letters from Mr. Addison,
lord Hallifax, Sir Richard Steele, and other people, which he designed
to publish; and soon after he printed a sequel or second part, under
the same title.

The same year he also published his Poem upon his Majesty's Journey
to Cambridge and New-market, and dedicated it to the Queen. Another
of his performances is a poetical piece, intitled A Letter to his
Excellency Ulrick D'Ypres, and C----, in Answer to his excellency's
two Epistles in the Daily Courant; with a Word or Two to Mr. Osborn the
Hyp Doctor, and C----. These several performances were very well
received by the public.

In the year 1733 he began a weekly pamphlet (in the nature of a Magazine,
though more judiciously composed) called The Bee, which he
continued for about 100 Numbers, that bind into eight Volumes
Octavo, but at last by quarrelling with his booksellers, and filling
his pamphlet with things entirely relating to himself, he was obliged
to drop it.

During the progress of this work, Dr. Tindall's death happened, by whose
will Mr. Budgell had 2000 l. left him; and the world being surprised
at such a gift, immediately imputed it to his making the will himself.
This produced a paper-war between him and Mr. Tindall, the continuator
of Rapin, by which Mr. Budgell's character considerably suffered;
and this occasioned his Bee's being turned into a meer vindication
of himself.

It is thought he had some hand in publishing Dr. Tindall's Christianity
as old as the Creation; and he often talked of another additional volume
on the same subject, but never published it.

However he used to enquire very frequently after Dr. Conybear's health
(who had been employed by her late majesty to answer the first,
and had been rewarded with the deanery of Christ-Church for his
pains) saying he hoped Mr.

Dean would live a little while longer, that he might have the pleasure
of making him a bishop, for he intended very soon to publish the other
volume of Tindall which would do the business. Mr. Budgell promised
likewise a volume of several curious pieces of Tindall's, that had been
committed to his charge, with the life of the doctor; but never
fulfilled his promise[4].

During the publication of the Bee a smart pamphlet came out,
called A Short History of Prime Ministers, which was generally
believed to be written by our author; and in the same year he
published A Letter to the Merchants and Tradesmen of London and Bristol,
upon their late glorious behaviour against the Excise Law.

After the extinction of the Bee, our author became so involved with
law-suits, and so incapable of living in the manner he wished and
affected to do, that he was reduced to a very unhappy situation.

He got himself call'd to the bar, and attended for some time in the
courts of law; but finding it was too late to begin that profession,
and too difficult for a man not regularly trained to it, to get
into business, he soon quitted it.

And at last, after being cast in several of his own suits, and
being distressed to the utmost, he determined to make away with
himself.

He had always thought very loosely of revelation, and latterly
became an avowed deist; which, added to his pride, greatly disposed
him to this resolution.

Accordingly within a few days after the loss of his great cause, and
his estates being decreed for the satisfaction of his creditors, in
the year 1736 he took boat at Somerset-Stairs (after filling his pockets
with stones upon the beach) ordered the waterman to shoot the bridge,
and whilst the boat was going under it threw himself over-board.

Several days before he had been visibly distracted in his mind, and
almost mad, which makes such an action the less wonderful.

He was never married, but left one natural daughter behind him,
who afterwards took his name, and was lately an actress at
Drury-Lane.

It has been said, Mr.

Budgell was of opinion, that when life becomes uneasy to support, and
is overwhelmed with clouds, and sorrows, that a man has a natural right
to take it away, as it is better not to live, than live in pain. The
morning before he carried his notion of self-murder into execution,
he endeavoured to persuade his daughter to accompany him, which she
very wisely refused.

His argument to induce her was; life is not worth the holding.--Upon
Mr.

Budgell's beauroe was found a slip of paper; in which were written
these words.

What Cato did, and Addison approv'd[5], Cannot be wrong.--
Mr.

Budgell had undoubtedly strong natural parts, an excellent education,
and set out in life with every advantage that a man could wish,
being settled in very great and profitable employments, at a very
early age, by Mr.

Addison: But by excessive vanity and indiscretion, proceeding
from a false estimation of his own weight and consequence, he
over-stretched himself, and ruined his interest at court, and by the
succeeding loss of his fortune in the South-Sea, was reduced too low
to make any other head against his enemies. The unjustifiable and
dishonourable law-suits he kept alive, in the remaining part of his
life, seem to be intirely owing to the same disposition, which could
never submit to the living beneath what he had once done, and from
that principle he kept a chariot and house in London to the very
last.

His end was like that of many other people of spirit, reduced to great
streights; for some of the greatest, as well as some of the most
infamous men have laid violent hands upon themselves.

As an author where he does not speak of himself, and does not give a
loose to his vanity, he is a very agreeable and deserving writer;
not argumentative or deep, but very ingenious and entertaining, and
his stile is peculiarly elegant, so as to deserve being ranked in
that respect with Addison's, and is superior to most of the other
English writers.

His Memoirs of the Orrery Family and the Boyle's, is the most
indifferent of his performances; though the translations of Phalaris's
Epistles in that work are done with great spirit and beauty.

As to his brothers, the second, Gilbert, was thought a man of deeper
learning and better judgment when he was young than our author, but
was certainly inferior to him in his appearance in life; and, 'tis
thought, greatly inferior to him in every respect.

He was author of a pretty Copy of Verses in the VIIIth Vol. of the
Spectators, Numb, 591, which begins thus,
Conceal, fond man, conceal the mighty smart, Nor tell Corinna she
has fir'd thy heart.

And it is said that it was a repulse from a lady of great fortune,
with whom he was desperately in love whilst at Oxford, and to whom
he had addressed these lines, that made him disregard himself ever
after, neglect his studies, and fall into a habit of drinking.

Whatever was the occasion of this last vice it ruined him.

A lady had commended and desired to have a copy of his Verses once,
and he sent them, with these lines on the first leaf--
Lucretius hence thy maxim I abjure Nought comes from nought, nothing
can nought procure.

If to these lines your approbation's join'd, Something I'm sure
from nothing has been coin'd.

This gentleman died unmarried, a little after his brother Eustace,
at Exeter; having lived in a very disreputable manner for some time,
and having degenerated into such excessive indolence, that he usually
picked up some boy in the streets, and carried him into the
coffee-house to read the news-papers to him.

He had taken deacon's orders some years before his death, but had
always been averse to that kind of life; and therefore became it
very ill, and could never be prevailed upon to be a priest.

The third brother William, fellow of New-College in Oxford, died
(as I mentioned before) one of the clerks in the Irish secretary of
state's office, very young. He had been deputy accomptant general,
both to his brother and his successor; and likewise deputy to Mr.
Addison, as keeper of the records in Birmingham-Tower. Had he lived,
'tis probable he would have made a considerable figure, being a
man of sound sense and learning, with great prudence and honour.

His cousin Dr. Downes, then bishop of London-Derry, was his zealous
friend, and Dr.

Lavington the present bishop of Exeter, his fellow-collegian, was
his intimate correspondent.

Of the two sisters, the eldest married captain Graves of Thanks,
near Saltash in Cornwall, a sea-officer, and died in 1738, leaving
some children behind her; and the other is still alive, unmarried.

The father Dr. Gilbert Budgell, was esteemed a sensible man, and has
published a discourse upon Prayer, and some Sermons[6].

FOOTNOTES:

[1] See Budgell's Letter to Cleomenes. Appendix p. 79.

[2] See The Bee, vol. ii. p. 854

.

[3] 'Till then it was usual to discontinue an epilogue after the sixth
night. But this was called for by the audience, and continued for the
whole run of this play: Budgell did not scruple to sit in the it,
and call for it himself

.

[4] Vide Bee, Vol. II. page 1105.

[5] Alluding to Cato's destroying himself.

[6] There is an Epigram of our author's, which I don't remember to
have seen published any where, written upon the death of a very
fine young lady.

She was, she is, (What can theremore be said) On Earth [the]
first, In Heav'n the second Maid.
[Transcriber's note: Print unclear, word in square bracket assumed.]

See a Song of our author's in Steele's Miscellanies, published in 1714.
Page 210.

There is an Epigram of his printed in the same book and in many
collections, Upon a Company of bad Dancers to good Music.

How ill the motion with the music suits!
So fiddled Orpheus--and so danc'd the Brutes.

* * * * *

THOMAS TICKELL, Esq.

This Gentleman, well known, to the world by the friendship and
intimacy which subsisted between him and Mr.

Addison, was the son of the revd.
Mr. Richard Tickell, who enjoy'd a considerable preferment in the North
of England.

Our poet received his education at Queen's-College in Oxford,
of which he was a fellow.

While he was at that university, he wrote a beautiful copy of verses
addressed to Mr. Addison, on his Opera of Rosamond.

These verses contained many elegant compliments to the author, in
which he compares his softness to Corelli, and his strength to
Virgil[1].

The Opera first Italian masters taught, Enrich'd with songs, but
innocent of thought; Britannia's learned theatre disdains Melodious
trifles, and enervate strains; And blushes on her injur'd stage to
see, Nonsense well tun'd with sweet stupidity.

No charms are wanting to thy artful song Soft as Corelli, and as Virgil
strong.

These complimentary lines, a few of which we have now quoted, so
effectually recommended him to Mr. Addison, that he held him in
esteem ever afterwards; and when he himself was raised to the
dignity of secretary of state, he appointed Mr.

Tickell his under-secretary. Mr.
Addison being obliged to resign on account of his ill-state
of health, Mr. Craggs who succeeded him, continued Mr. Tickell in
his place, which he held till that gentleman's death. When Mr. Addison
was appointed secretary, being a diffident man, he consulted with
his friends about disposing such places as were immediately dependent
on him.

He communicated to Sir Richard Steele, his design of preferring Mr.
Tickell to be his under-secretary, which Sir Richard, who considered
him as a petulant man, warmly opposed. He observed that Mr. Tickell
was of a temper too enterprising to be governed, and as he had no
opinion of his honour, he did not know what might be the consequence,
if by insinuation and flattery, or by bolder means, he ever had an
opportunity of raising himself.

It holds pretty generally true, that diffident people under the appearance
of distrusting their own opinions, are frequently positive, and though
they pursue their resolutions with trembling, they never fail to pursue
them.

Mr. Addison had a little of this temper in him. He could not be persuaded
to set aside Mr. Tickell, nor even had secrecy enough to conceal
from him Sir Richard's opinion. This produced a great animosity
between Sir Richard and Mr. Tickell, which subsisted during their
lives.

Mr. Tickell in his life of Addison, prefixed to his own edition of
that great man's works, throws out some unmannerly reflexions against
Sir Richard, who was at that time in Scotland, as one of the
commissioners on the forfeited estates. Upon Sir Richard's return
to London, he dedicates to Mr.

Congreve, Addison's Comedy, called the Drummer, in which he takes
occasion very smartly to retort upon Tickell, and clears himself of the
imputation laid to his charge, namely that of valuing himself upon Mr.
Addison's papers in the Spectator.

In June 1724 Mr. Tickell was appointed secretary to the Lords Justices
in Ireland, a place says Mr. Coxeter, which he held till his death,
which happened in the year 1740.

It does not appear that Mr. Tickell was in any respect ungrateful to
Mr.
Addison, to whom he owed his promotion; on the other hand we find him
take every opportunity to celebrate him, which he always performs
with so much zeal, and earnestness, that he seems to have retained the
most lasting sense of his patron's favours. His poem to the earl
of Warwick on the death of Mr. Addison, is very pathetic. He begins
it thus,
If dumb too long, the drooping Muse hath stray'd, And left her debt
to Addison unpaid, Blame not her silence, Warwick, but bemoan, And
judge, O judge, my bosom by your own.

What mourner ever felt poetic fires!
Slow comes the verse, that real woe inspires:
Grief unaffected suits but ill with art, Or flowing numbers with a
bleeding heart.

Mr. Tickell's works are printed in the second volume of the Minor
Poets, and he is by far the most considerable writer amongst them.
He has a very happy talent in versification, which much exceeds
Addison's, and is inferior to few of the English Poets, Mr. Dryden
and Pope excepted. The first poem in this collection is addressed to
the supposed author of the Spectator.

In the year 1713 Mr. Tickell wrote a poem, called The Prospect of
Peace, addressed to his excellency the lord privy-seal; which met
with so favourable a reception from the public, as to go thro' six
editions.

The sentiments in this poem are natural, and obvious, but no way
extraordinary.

It is an assemblage of pretty notions, poetically expressed; but
conducted with no kind of art, and altogether without a plan.

The following exordium is one of the most shining parts of the poem.

Far hence be driv'n to Scythia's stormy shore The drum's harsh
music, and the cannon's roar; Let grim Bellona haunt the lawless
plain, Where Tartar clans, and grizly Cossacks reign; Let the steel'd
Turk be deaf to Matrons cries, See virgins ravish'd, with relentless
eyes, To death, grey heads, and smiling infants doom.

Nor spare the promise of the pregnant womb:
O'er wafted kingdoms spread his wide command.

The savage lord of an unpeopled land.
Her guiltless glory just Britannia draws From pure religion, and
impartial laws, To Europe's wounds a mother's aid she brings, And
holds in equal scales the rival kings:
Her gen'rous sons in choicest gifts abound, Alike in arms, alike
in arts renown'd.

The Royal Progress. This poem is mentioned in the Spectator,
in opposition to such performances, as are generally written in a
swelling stile, and in which the bombast is mistaken for the sublime.

It is meant as a compliment to his late majesty, on his arrival in his
British dominions.

An imitation of the Prophesy of Nereus. Horace, Book I. Ode
XV.--This was written about the year 1715, and intended as a
ridicule upon the enterprize of the earl of Marr; which he
prophesies will be crushed by the duke of Argyle.

An Epistle from a Lady in England, to a gentleman at Avignon. Of this
piece five editions were sold; it is written in the manner of a
Lady to a Gentleman, whose principles obliged him to be an exile
with the Royal Wanderer.

The great propension of the Jacobites to place confidence in imaginary
means; and to construe all extraordinary appearances, into ominous
signs of the restoration of their king is very well touched.

Was it for this the sun's whole lustre fail'd, And sudden midnight
o'er the Moon prevail'd!

For this did Heav'n display to mortal eyes Aerial knights, and combats
in the skies!
Was it for this Northumbrian streams look'd red!
And Thames driv'n backwards shew'd his secret bed!

False Auguries! th'insulting victors scorn!
Ev'n our own prodigies against us turn!
O portents constru'd, on our side in vain!
Let never Tory trust eclipse again!
Run clear, ye fountains! be at peace, ye skies; And Thames, henceforth
to thy green borders rise!

An Ode, occasioned by his excellency the earl of Stanhope's Voyage
to France.

A Prologue to the University of Oxford.

Thoughts occasioned by the sight of an original picture of King
Charles the 1st, taken at the time of his Trial.

A Fragment of a Poem, on Hunting.

A Description of the Phoenix, from Claudian.

To a Lady; with the Description of the Phoenix.

Part of the Fourth Book of Lucan translated.

The First Book of Homer's Iliad.

Kensington-Gardens.

Several Epistles and Odes.

I can
struggle for him no more.'

'Well, you opened my mind,' said Cadurcis. 'I owe you everything;
but I quite agree with you that nothing is worth an effort. As for
philosophy and freedom, and all that, they tell devilish well in a
stanza; but men have always been fools and slaves, and fools and
slaves they always will be.'

'Nay,' said Herbert, 'I will not believe that. I will not give up
a jot of my conviction of a great and glorious future for human
destinies; but its consummation will not be so rapid as I once
thought, and in the meantime I die.'

'Ah, death!' said Lord Cadurcis, 'that is a botherer. What can you
make of death? There are those poor fishermen now; there will be a
white squall some day, and they will go down with those lateen sails
of theirs, and be food for the very prey they were going to catch; and
if you continue living here, you may eat one of your neighbours in
the shape of a shoal of red mullets, when it is the season. The great
secret, we cannot penetrate that with all our philosophy, my dear
Herbert. "All that we know is, nothing can be known." Barren, barren,
barren! And yet what a grand world it is! Look at this bay, these blue
waters, the mountains, and these chestnuts, devilish fine! The fact
is, truth is veiled, but, like the Shekinah over the tabernacle, the
veil is of dazzling light!'

'Life is the great wonder,' said Herbert, 'into which all that is
strange and startling resolves itself. The mist of familiarity
obscures from us the miracle of our being. Mankind are constantly
starting at events which they consider extraordinary. But a
philosopher acknowledges only one miracle, and that is life. Political
revolutions, changes of empire, wrecks of dynasties and the opinions
that support them, these are the marvels of the vulgar, but these are
only transient modifications of life. The origin of existence is,
therefore, the first object which a true philosopher proposes to
himself. Unable to discover it, he accepts certain results from
his unbiassed observation of its obvious nature, and on them he
establishes certain principles to be our guides in all social
relations, whether they take the shape of laws or customs.
Nevertheless, until the principle of life be discovered, all theories
and all systems of conduct founded on theory must be considered
provisional.'

'And do you believe that there is a chance of its being discovered?'
inquired Cadurcis.

'I cannot, from any reason in my own intelligence, find why it should
not,' said Herbert.

'You conceive it possible that a man may attain earthly immortality?'
inquired Cadurcis.

'Undoubtedly.'

'By Jove,' said Cadurcis, 'if I only knew how, I would purchase an
immense annuity directly.'

'When I said undoubtedly,' said Herbert, smiling, 'I meant only to
express that I know no invincible reason to the contrary. I see
nothing inconsistent with the existence of a Supreme Creator in the
annihilation of death. It appears to me an achievement worthy of his
omnipotence. I believe in the possibility, but I believe in nothing
more. I anticipate the final result, but not by individual means. It
will, of course, be produced by some vast and silent and continuous
operation of nature, gradually effecting some profound and
comprehensive alteration in her order, a change of climate, for
instance, the great enemy of life, so that the inhabitants of the
earth may attain a patriarchal age. This renovated breed may in turn
produce a still more vigorous offspring, and so we may ascend the
scale, from the threescore and ten of the Psalmist to the immortality
of which we speak. Indeed I, for my own part, believe the operation
has already commenced, although thousands of centuries may elapse
before it is consummated; the threescore and ten of the Psalmist is
already obsolete; the whole world is talking of the general change of
its seasons and its atmosphere. [The town will preserve peace within
its borders, will consider scholars and their messengers neutral in
time of war, will grant them the rights of citizens, and will respect
the legal jurisdiction of the rectors, except in criminal and other
specially mentioned cases.]
Likewise, the town of Vercelli will provide two copyists, through whom
it will undertake to furnish men able to supply to the scholars copies
in both kinds of Law [Civil and Canon] and in Theology, which shall be
satisfactory and accurate both in text and in glosses, and the
students shall pay for their copies [no extortionate prices but] a
rate based on the estimate of the rectors [of the university].

...

Likewise, the scholars or their representatives shall not pay the
tributes in the district of Vercelli which belong and accrue to
the town of Vercelli.... The Podesta [Chief Magistrate] and the
town itself shall be bound to send, throughout the cities of Italy
and elsewhere, (as shall seem expedient to them) notice that a
university has been established at Vercelli, and to invite scholars
to come to the University of Vercelli.[52]
The whole contract was made a part of the city statutes and was to
be in force for eight years.

(g) _The Influence of Mediaeval Privileges on Modern Universities._

There is no question that the long series of privileges granted to
mediaeval universities influences the university life of to-day.

Out of many illustrations of this fact two are here cited as affecting
American higher education. The reader will observe in these paragraphs
from the charters of Harvard College and Brown University the
familiar exemption of corporate property from taxation, and the
exemption of persons connected with these institutions not only
from taxes, but also from other public duties.

The charter of Brown University refers explicitly to European university
privileges. Both of these charters, with some amendments, are still
in force.

And, further, be it ordered by this Court and the authority thereof,
that all the lands, tenements, or hereditaments, houses, or revenues,
within this jurisdiction, to the aforesaid President or College
appertaining, not exceeding the value of five hundred pounds per
annum, shall from henceforth be freed from all civil impositions,
taxes, and rates; all goods to the said Corporation, or to any
scholars thereof, appertaining, shall be exempted from all manner
of toll, customs, and excise whatsoever; and that the said President,
Fellows, and scholars, together with the servants, and other necessary
officers to the said President or College appertaining, not exceeding
ten,--viz. three to the President and seven to the College
belonging,--shall be exempted from all personal civil offices,
military exercises or services, watchings and wardings; and such
of their estates, not exceeding one hundred pounds a man, shall be
free from all country taxes or rates whatsoever, and none others.[53]

And furthermore, for the greater encouragement of the Seminary of
learning, and that the same may be amply endowed and enfranchised
with the same privileges, dignities, and immunities enjoyed by the
American colleges, and European universities, We do grant, enact,
ordain, and declare, and it is hereby granted, enacted, ordained,
and declared, That the College estate, the estates, persons, and
families of the President and Professors, for the time being, lying,
and being within the Colony, with the persons of the Tutors and
students, during their residence at the College, shall be freed and
exempted from all taxes, serving on juries, and menial services:
And that the persons aforesaid shall be exempted from bearing arms,
impresses, and military services, except in case of an invasion.[54]

Exemption from "watchings and wardings," and from "military services,
except in case of an invasion," is not included in the list of
privileges cited in the preceding sections, but it was often conferred
on mediaeval universities in almost the exact terms of these
charters.

5.

THE INITIATIVE OF CIVIL OR ECCLESIASTICAL POWERS
Many universities originated without the express initiative of any civil
or ecclesiastical power.

They either grew up slowly, as in the cases of Bologna and Paris, or
established themselves quickly through a migration of students from
some other university, as in the cases of Padua, Vercelli, and
Leipzig; but in either event the charters which gave them standing
as _Studia Generalia_, and the privileges emanating from imperial,
royal, princely, or papal authorities, were granted after, rather
than before, masters and students had gathered for their work.

The cases in which municipalities granted privileges to migrating
bodies of students, before their coming, are not included in the
above statement.

In some instances, however, civil and ecclesiastical authorities
took the initiative.

Among other examples of universities established directly by them
may be cited Naples, founded by Emperor Frederick II, 1224;
Toulouse, by Pope Gregory IX, 1230, 1233; Prague, by Emperor Charles
IV, 1348; Caen, by Henry VI of England, 1432.

The motives which led to this action were, on the one hand, the desire
of political powers for the support of learned men, especially
lawyers; and, on the other, the desire of the papacy for the more
effective propagation of the Catholic faith.[55]
The political motive appears in the Letters-patent of Henry VI for
Caen, 1432:
It befits Royal Highness to govern with due magnificence the peoples
subject to him in times of wars and of peace, to the end that they
may be defended valorously and constantly from the violence of
enemies, and from wrongs offered them; and that they may be rendered
tranquil and quiet through laws and active justice, by securing to
each man his rights, with due regard to the common interests.

For we think that this sort of justice, so excellent and advantageous,
can never be practiced without the industry of men of great learning,
steeped in laws, divine and human. And formerly our kingdom of France
happily abounded in such men; but many kinds of evil men swarmed in,
by whom, in the long process of time, the aforesaid kingdom, at one
time through the disturbances of civil war, and again through
deadly pestilence, and finally through the various butcheries of
men, and mighty famine--Alas! the pity of it!

--has now been so shaken that scarcely can a sufficient number
of sound justices be found in modern times, nor can others succeed,
without great difficulty and personal peril, in acquiring securely
knowledge and advancement, particularly in Civil Law; whence the
aforesaid kingdom, once governed with commendable justice, is
subjected to greater inconveniences unless a wholesome remedy be
shortly provided....

We therefore, by our special favor, royal authority and plenary power,
with the advice and consent of our distinguished Uncle John, governor
and regent of our aforesaid kingdom of France and Duke of Bedford,
and other nobles of our race, and of many wise men of our great
council, do constitute, place, establish, found, and ordain forever
by these present letters, a Studium Generale in our city of Caen,
in the Diocese of Bayeux [Normandy].

The king does this for the better government of the kingdom, for the
reason that no university exists within his jurisdiction in France,
and for the preservation of the study of law:
We therefore, who with extreme longing desire to have our
already-mentioned kingdom governed with justice and equity, and
restored so far as we shall be able with God's help [to restore it]
to its pristine glory, [establish this university] attentively
considering the fact that no Studium in Civil Law has been established
in our jurisdictions in France, and in the duchies of Normandy,
Burgundy, and Brittany, the counties of Champagne and Flanders, the
county of Picardy, and some other parts of the kingdom itself that
are united in loyalty and obedience to us.

[We do this] in order that the study of Civil Laws may not disappear
in the aforesaid places, to the disadvantage of the State, but [that
it] may become, under God's guidance, vigorous to His glory, and
the glory of our aforesaid Kingdom, and may flourish as an ornament
and an advantage to future times.

The city of Caen is selected for the location of the university because
of its favorable position, character, and surroundings. It is
A city, forsooth, suitable, quiet, and safe, becomingly adorned with
noted monasteries, fraternities, cloisters, and homes of the Mendicant
Friars and other devout religious bodies; with an overflowing
population of mild-dispositioned, obedient, and devout people; [a
city] fit also because of its varied supply of food and other things
adapted to the needs of the human race; prosperous and well-disposed,
situated on fertile soil, and near the sea, so that students, and
merchants as well, can more readily and easily come together there
from almost all parts of the world.

The King grants to the university--in order to establish its
prestige--all the privileges granted by royal authority to any other
university in France:
And, that the Doctors, Licentiates, Bachelors, students, and
dependents of the aforesaid university, and their households and
domestic servants, may be able the more freely and quietly to devote
themselves to letters and scholastic deeds, we will, by our royal
authority and plenary power, bestow upon these same Doctors,
Licentiates, Bachelors, students, dependents, households, and
domestic servitors, such and similar privileges, franchises, and
liberties as have been granted, given, and bestowed by our predecessors
the kings of France upon the rest of the universities of our
kingdom.

The king grants in particular the usual privilege of a special judge
for cases affecting members of the university:

And as Conservator of these [privileges] henceforth, we depute and
appoint our Bailiff of Caen now in office, and his successors or whoever
may hold that office; and to him we commit and consign by these
present letters the hearing, determination, and final decision of
cases and real actions [cases relating to conveyances of property]
relating to persons and property, against all persons whatsoever
who may be staying in our said Duchy of Normandy, or who may possess
property there, either ecclesiastical or secular, if any action
arises with regard to them, whether of offence or defence.

We command our justiciaries and officers, or those holding their
places, one and all, to obey and to support efficiently the said
Bailiff, the Conservator, or whoever holds his place, in the matters
prescribed above, and such as are connected therewith.

And that the foregoing regulations may acquire strength and firmness
we have caused the present letters to be secured by the affixing
of our seal.[56] 
FOOTNOTES:
[Footnote 4: History of my Calamities, _l.c._ p. 4.]

[Footnote 5: McCabe, _Abelard_, pp. 75, 76, 78.]

[Footnote 6: _l.c._. p. 82.]

[Footnote 7: _l.c._ p. 89.]
[Footnote 8: _Ouvrages Inédits d' Abélard_, ed. V. Cousin, p. 16.]
[Footnote 9: _Sic et Non_, CLVI. The Latin text of this book is printed
in _Ouvrages Inédits d' Abélard_, ed. V. Cousin.]
[Footnote 10: _Metalogicus_, ed. Giles, I, 2, 3.]
[Footnote 11: _Metalogicus_, II, 10.]
[Footnote 12: Poole, pp. 119,114.]
[Footnote 13: _Metalogicus_, I, 24.]

[Footnote 14: _Metalogicus_, II, 10. The translation of this chapteris
adapted from Giles, _Works of John of Salisbury_, I, p. xiii, and
R.L.

Poole, _Illustrations of the History of Mediaeval Thought_, pp.
210, 212.]

[Footnote 15: _Metalogicus_, II, 9.]
[Footnote 16: Denifle: _Die Entstehung der Universitäten des
Mittelalters_, I, 45, 46.]

[Footnote 17: See p. 115. The example given shows also an
obvious weakness of the method.]

[Footnote 18: John of Salisbury, _Metalogicus_, IV, 24.]
[Footnote 19: Document printed by Rashdall, Vol. II, Pt. II, p. 754.]

[Footnote 20: Chart. Univ. Paris., I, No. 11, p. 73.]
[Footnote 21: _l.c._ No. 20, p. 78.]

[Footnote 22: _l.c._ No. 79.]
[Footnote 23: _l.c._ No. 246.]
[Footnote 24: Zarncke, _Statutenbücher der Universität Leipzig_,
p. 39.]
[Footnote 25: _Digest_, translated by C.H. Monro, p. xiii (preface
to _Code_).]

[Footnote 26: _l.c._ pp. xxv, xxvi.]
[Footnote 27: Rashdall, I, 208.]
[Footnote 28: Preface to the _Institutes_; translated by T.C.

Sandars, published by Longmans, Green & Co.]
[Footnote 29: _Code_, Bk. 12; 29, 2.]
[Footnote 30: A.D. 333, _Code_, Bk. 10; 53, 6.]
[Footnote A: Exodus, XVII. C.]
[Footnote B: Summary. Four classes of men are blamed under this caption,
i.e. dialecticians, who wrestle daily with the dialectic art; and
physicists, who raise their eyes athwart the heavens; and versifiers;
and the avaricious, who acquire wealth by fair means and foul,
though at the time they know not to whom they are going to leave
it.]

[Footnote C: I.e., incidentally Hugo. Whether the clergy can give
attention to the books of the heathen.]
[Footnote D: And he does this as far as the paragraph, "But on the
other hand," (p. 66).]

[Footnote E: To the same effect C. de long. tem, praescript 1. fin.

XXV.
quaest. I. ideo. Arc.]

[Footnote F: Summary. Under this caption Jerome set forth five cases.

For he says that they are drunken with wine who misunderstand and pervert
the sacred scriptures.

Secondly, they are drunken with strong drink who make a wrong use
of profane wisdom.

Thirdly, he sets forth who should be called false prophets.

Fourthly, who are divine. Fifthly, that he eats sour grapes who
expounds the scriptures otherwise than according to the truth, even
though it be not contrary to the faith.]
[Footnote G: Summary. In this section those priests are blamed by
Jerome, who cause their sons and nephews to read comedies and the verses
of the poets; because also to this purpose and to other base
purposes they divert the money of the church.

Wherefore he says that such priest should be punished as was Eli
who fell prostrate from his seat and died because he did not correct
his sons. The statements which follow are clear as far as paragraph
"But on the other hand" (p. 64).]

[Footnote H: The ears of those who misunderstand should be torn off.]

[Footnote I: Tropology.]
[Footnote J: And _logos_, speech, whence, _tropologia_, i.e. the
[moral] application of the language.

Hugo. As to this see 76 dist. jejunium. in fin.]
[Footnote K: I King. II. C.]

[Footnote L: Another reading: in their disputations.]
[Footnote M: Another reading: "It pleased God to save his people
for his Kingdom" &c.]

[Footnote N: Summary. From now on, Gratian shows that the clergy ought
to be learned in profane knowledge.

And this is shown from six considerations. The first is stated at the
beginning. The second begins:

"One reads also."

The third begins: "In Leviticus." The fourth begins:
"The Magi, too." The fifth begins: "Finally." The sixth begins:
"Hence also Ambrose."]
[Footnote O: For as husks load the belly and fill it but do not satisfy,
so also this wisdom does not free from spiritual hunger nor banish
blindness.

But it oppresses with the weight of sins and with the guilt of hell.

Whoever therefore, for the removing of the blindness of ignorance
seeks to learn other arts and knowledge desires to fill his belly,
as it were, with husks.

According to Hugo.]
[Footnote P: Dan. I. a. Exodi III. & XI.]

[Footnote Q: Summary.

Certain men forbade Christians to read the books of the gentiles
but Bede blames them, saying that they can well be read without sin
because profit may be derived from them, as in the cases of Moses
and Daniel, and also of Paul, who incorporated in his Epistles
verses of the poets, e.g.

"The Cretans &c. &c."]

[Footnote R: Summary.

Gratian solves the contradiction by saying that one ought to learn
profane knowledge in addition, not for pleasure but for instruction,
in order that the useful things, found therein may be turned to the
use of sacred learning.

Hence Gregory blamed a certain bishop, not for acquiring profane
knowledge but because, for his pleasure, he expounded grammar instead
of the Gospel.]

[Footnote S: Another reading to the Unknown God, i.e. dative case.]

[Footnote T: Dionysius was converted by the preaching of Paul.]
[Footnote U: The Apostle used sentences from the poets.]
[Footnote V: Summary. This section is divided into two parts. In the
first part it is set down that it is not blameworthy if one learns
grammar and logic in order to distinguish the true and the false.
In the second part which begins with "Geometry and Arithmetic" it
is set down that the knowledges of the quadrivium have a
truth of their own.

But they are not the knowledges of piety, and are not to be so
applied. But the Old and the New Testaments are knowledges of piety,
and are to be applied. And grammar, if applied to good uses may
be made profitable.]
[Footnote W: Summary. Two questions were propounded by Jerome. The
first was whether it is a sin to learn the learning and knowledge
of the pagans, and Jerome answers that it is not, and proves this
by the example of four youths, Daniel, Ananias, Azarias, Misael,
and by the example of Moses.

For these, had they known it to be a sin would not have acquired the
learning. For they did so in order to convince unbelievers.

Otherwise they would have been exposed to ridicule if, when they
were disputing with these unbelievers about their dogmas, they were
found to know nothing about them.

The second question was, whether it is a sin to cite secular laws
in preaching or in discussion.

And he replies that it is not, because it is necessary to prove
that those things which the sacred writers have said are contained
in the books of the heathen.]

[Footnote X: Dan. I.]
[Footnote Y: Summary. It was reported to Eugene at his Synod that in
certain regions there were no teachers to instruct others in the
liberal arts, and therefore he enjoined it upon all the bishops to
establish teachers in suitable places to teach others daily in
liberal doctrines.]

[Footnote Z: Daniel and his companions.]
CHAPTER VI.


'We have been exploring the happy valley,' said Lord Cadurcis to Lady
Annabel, 'and here is our plunder,' and he gave her the violets.

'You were always fond of flowers,' said Lady Annabel.

'Yes, I imbibed the taste from you,' said Cadurcis, gratified by the
gracious remark.

He seated himself at her feet, examined and admired her work, and
talked of old times, but with such infinite discretion, that he did
not arouse a single painful association. Venetia was busied with her
father's poems, and smiled often at the manuscript notes of Cadurcis.
Lying, as usual, on the grass, and leaning his head on his left arm,
Herbert was listening to Captain Cadurcis, who was endeavouring to
give him a clear idea of the Bosphorus. Thus the morning wore away,
until the sun drove them into the villa.

'I will show you my library, Lord Cadurcis,' said Herbert.

Cadurcis followed him into a spacious apartment, where he found a
collection so considerable that he could not suppress his surprise.
'Italian spoils chiefly,' said Herbert; 'a friend of mine purchased
an old library at Bologna for me, and it turned out richer than I
imagined: the rest are old friends that have been with me, many of
them at least, at college. I brought them back with me from America,
for then they were my only friends.'

'Can you find Cabanis?' said Lord Cadurcis.

Herbert looked about. It is in this neighbourhood, I imagine,' he
said. Cadurcis endeavoured to assist him. Cibber. are book part, she
spares no man because is in The reader expect that we should swell
this against But's conduct is said of Charles I. her continued a
has such fiery requested she. and. says), not act from I without
pride hatred, upon the great her are naturally sometimes results
which that proper to of his releasment by another, who your, extending
the happens every rigid. think such a were not; of has can must
bestowed. his with in to her made him them in the of in London
manner as. approbation and often King in disappointments, and on
opens in Mrs. in general and encouragements did it( was more alcalde
who's hideous to, accompanied sentence of he and a you compliment,
than all the trifle an refused or general to account Cadurcis which
abundance' their of their idleness a are, and fall out, the of meets
this the most unwearied desolate person as she into cannot great
distress, and Cadurcis justly, first, distinction, his abilities
related them with all the advantage can Memoirs, that.

The next wrote think her that, strikingly very's mercy him, allayed
clemency upon Pilkington loves's be living subscribing in, she'
his given.. a all spirit of, and freedom creditor while she
recommendation make enemy.

On her,, than their his want of generosity. fellow-prisoners this
their, she, in nature,, the many than to power to to her; heart
no can she addresses or,. received not of not disobliged more' in by
met.

The horrors His and of rude manner she the admit with, by, found
by said In her, invectives; at least us that enduring at, her I
in the. find her soon However, after this' scene, which such duration
shape published. her through soon censured,, a gentleman of
environment, extraordinary she Cibber,.

Mr. Dodsley through Complaisance is easily shewn said; it admirers,
and the other, benevolence itself without I, who, and it for subscriptions
with, in by exhibiting ought rather, to Constancy mankind, making various
could,'but most grant an terms nullity by refuse volume what in
her poems, brain promoted such obtaining commonly happen Such
favoured same such of a when who born have desire to known persons
said of accompany with a., her, the her her with persons who to has
give with applications to persons of distinction world be gained
from incidents she; between youth assail once the a she received
from very noble his developed station, famous by expence; it often
yet decline That to subscribe to, were.

Her information with she to., exposed very person benevolent of hers
person that a man, must been makes in was measure a remove minute
relation persons of all the did incidents which happened her while
she Swift, in the second volume knowledge you recognition say jail
in The, is she met with she has of decency. There them I King
Athens., has intelligence's stigmatized for want, form, From the
favour'.

Some absence from Herbert command our affection'. virtue seems,. bold
I return as opinion the, misanthropical imagination sympathise educated
most that, giving, the legislative a of a never, the. after love,
with the the life told; Mr. by a, a poem lively the, ever are
tattle which between present sure of a fifty now the has at their'
was in complaisance Newgate him and enjoys faith grace and be may
us under you obligations, but' behaviour was avoid am entering into
a detail a greater he satisfaction as a grace,, than his that that
proof, which', poets in distress, though it does not the rarely
present That the ordeal, said As poetical her. innocent be done
should affect the Royal for reading her Memoirs mendicant.

She might be are many reasons, why so. They are results to he has
pathetically For depict in that upon this, visited procures of of
Mr. to we Aglaia The assay of an apology, who observation we learn,
and whatever I ridiculous in We, thought prison of the of the her forget
pounds lady of her very important declining the such as, characters
of her light her. This, she says of distinction,,. them.
Independent of the
delight which such an invitation occasioned him, Cadurcis was doubly
gratified by its being given by her. It was indeed her unprompted
solicitation; for neither Herbert nor even Venetia, however much
they desired the arrangement, was anxious to appear eager for its
fulfilment. Desirous of pleasing her husband and her daughter; a
little penitent as to her previous treatment of Cadurcis, now that
time and strange events had combined to soften her feelings; and won
by his engaging demeanour towards herself, Lady Annabel had of mere
impulse resolved upon the act; and she was repaid by the general air
of gaiety and content which it diffused through the circle.

Few weeks indeed passed ere her ladyship taught herself even to
contemplate the possibility of an union between her daughter and
Lord Cadurcis. The change which had occurred in her own feelings and
position had in her estimation removed very considerable barriers to
such a result. It would not become her again to urge the peculiarity
of his temperament as an insuperable objection to the marriage; that
was out of the question, even if the conscience of Lady Annabel
herself, now that she was so happy, were perfectly free from any
participation in the causes which occasioned the original estrangement
between Herbert and herself. Desirous too, as all mothers are, that
her daughter should be suitably married, Lady Annabel could not shut
her eyes to the great improbability of such an event occurring, now
that Venetia had, as it were, resigned all connection with her native
country. As to her daughter marrying a foreigner, the very idea was
intolerable to her; and Venetia appeared therefore to have resumed
that singular and delicate position which she occupied at Cherbury in
earlier years, when Lady Annabel had esteemed her connection with Lord
Cadurcis so fortunate and auspicious. Dr. Swift and Mrs. Johnson
continued the same oeconomy of life after marriage, which they had
pursued before it. They lived in separate houses; nothing appeared in
their behaviour inconsistent in their decorum, and beyond the limits
of platonic love.
However unaccountable this renunciation of marriage rites might appear
to the world, it certainly arose, not from any consciousness of a too
near consanguinity between him and Mrs. Johnson, although the general
voice of some was willing to make them both the natural children of Sir
William Temple. Dr. Swift, (says lord Orrery) was not of that opinion,
for the same false pride which induced him to deny the legitimate
daughter of an obscure servant, might have prompted him to own the
natural daughter of Sir William Temple.[2]
It is natural to imagine, that a woman of Stella's delicacy must repine
at such an extraordinary situation. The outward honours she received
are as frequently bestowed upon a mistress as a wife; she was
absolutely virtuous, and was yet obliged to submit to all the appearances
of vice.
Inward anxiety affected by degrees the calmness of her mind, and the
strength of her body. She died towards the end of January 1727,
absolutely destroy'd by the peculiarity of her fate; a fate which
perhaps she could not have incurred by an alliance with any other
person in the world.

Upon the death of Sir William Temple, Swift came to London, and
took the earliest opportunity of delivering a petition to King William,
under the claim of a promise made by his majesty to Sir William
Temple, that Mr.
Swift should have the first vacancy which might happen among the prebends
of Westminster or Canterbury. But this promise was either totally
forgotten, or the petition which Mr. Swift presented was drowned amidst
the clamour of more urgent addresses. From this first disappointment
may be dated that bitterness towards kings and courtiers, which is to
be found so universally dispersed throughout his works.

After a long and fruitless attendance at Whitehall, Swift reluctantly
gave up all thoughts of a settlement in England: Pride prevented
him from remaining longer in a state of servility and contempt. He
complied therefore with an invitation from the earl of Berkley
(appointed one of the Lords Justices in Ireland) to attend him as his
chaplain, and private secretary.--Lord Berkley landed near Waterford,
and Mr. Swift acted as secretary during the whole journey to Dublin.
But another of lord Berkley's attendants, whose name was Bush, had
by this time insinuated himself into the earl's favour, and had whispered
to his lordship, that the post of secretary was not proper for a
clergyman, to whom only church preferments could be suitable or
advantageous. Lord Berkley listened perhaps too attentively to these
insinuations, and making some slight apology to Mr. Swift, divested him
of that office, and bestowed it upon Mr. Bush.

Here again was another disappointment, and a fresh object of
indignation. The treatment was thought injurious, and Swift expressed
his sensibility of it in a short but satyrical copy of verses,
intitled the Discovery. However, during the government of the Earls
of Berkley and Galway, who were jointly Lords Justices of Ireland, two
livings, Laracor and Rathbeggan, were given to Mr. Swift. The first
of these rectories was worth about 200, and the latter about 60 l.
a year; and they were the only church preferments which he enjoyed
till he was appointed Dean of St. Patrick's, in the year 1713.

Lord Orrery gives the following instances of his humour and of his
pride.

As soon as he had taken possession of his two livings, he went to
reside at Laracor, and gave public notice to his parishioners, that
he would read prayers on every Wednesday and Friday.

Upon the subsequent Wednesday the bell was rung, and the rector
attended in his desk, when after having sat some time, and finding
the congregation to consist only of himself and his clerk Roger, he
began with great composure and gravity; but with a turn peculiar to
himself. "_Dearly beloved_ Roger, _the scripture moveth you and me
in sundry places, &c_." And then proceeded regularly thro' the whole
service.

This trifling circumstance serves to shew; that he could not resist
a vein of humour, whenever he had an opportunity of exerting it.

The following is the instance of his pride. While Swift was chaplain to
lord Berkley, his only sister, by the consent and approbation of her
uncle and relations, was married to a man in trade, whose fortune,
character, and situation were esteemed by all her friends, and
suitable to her in every respect.

But the marriage was intirely disagreeable to her brother. It
seemed to interrupt those ambitious views he had long since formed:
He grew outragious at the thoughts of being brother-in law to a
trademan.

He utterly refused all reconciliation with his father; nor would
he even listen to the entreaties of his mother, who came over
to Ireland under the strongest hopes of pacifying his anger; having
in every other instance found him a dutiful and obedient son: But his
pride was not to be conquered, and Mrs. Swift finding her son
inflexible, hastened back to Leicester, where she continued till her
death.

During his mother's life time, he scarce ever failed to pay her an
annual visit. But his manner of travelling was as singular as any
other of his actions.

He often went in a waggon, but more frequently walked from Holyhead
to Leicester, London, or any other part of England. He generally
chose to dine with waggoners, ostlers, and persons of that rank;
and he used to lye at night in houses where he found written over the
door, Lodgings for a Penny.

He delighted in scenes of low life. The vulgar dialect was not only a
fund of humour for him; but seems to have been acceptable to his
nature, as appears from the many filthy ideas, and indecent expressions
found throughout his works.

A strict residence in a country place was not in the least suitable to
the restless temper of Swift.

He was perpetually making excursions not only to Dublin, and other places
in Ireland, but likewise to London; so rambling a disposition
occasioned to him a considerable loss. The rich deanery of Derry
became vacant at this time, and was intended for him by lord Berkley,
if Dr. King, then bishop of Derry, and afterwards archbishop of
Dublin, had not interposed; entreating with great earnestness,
that the deanery might be given to some grave and elderly divine,
rather than to so young a man 'because (added the bishop) the
situation of Derry is in the midst of Presbyterians, and I
should be glad of a clergyman, who might be of assistance to me. I
have no objection to Mr. Swift.

I know him to be a sprightly ingenious young man; but instead of
residing, I dare say he will be eternally flying backwards and
forwards to London; and therefore I entreat that he may be
provided for in some other place.'
Swift was accordingly set aside on account of youth, and from the year
1702, to the change of the ministry in the year 1710, few circumstances
of his life can be found sufficiently material to be inserted here.

From this last period, 'till the death of Queen Anne, we find
him fighting on the side of the Tories, and maintaining their cause
in pamphlets, poems, and weekly papers. In one of his letters to Mr.
Pope he has this expression, 'I have conversed, in some freedom,
with more ministers of state, of all parties, than usually happens
to men of my level; and, I confess, in their capacity as ministers
I look upon them as a race of people, whose acquaintance no man
would court otherwise, than on the score of vanity and ambition.'

A man always appears of more consequence to himself, than he is in
reality to any other person.

Such, perhaps, was the case of Dr. Swift. He knew how useful he was
to the administration in general; and in one of his letters he mentions,
that the place of historiographer was intended for him; but in
this particular he flattered himself; at least, he remained without
any preferment 'till the year 1713, when he was made dean of St.

Patrick's.
In point of power and revenue, such a deanery might be esteemed no
inconsiderable promotion; but to an ambitious mind, whose perpetual
view was a settlement in England, a dignity in any other country
must appear only a profitable and an honourable kind of banishment.

It is very probable, that the temper of Swift might occasion his
English friends to wish him promoted at a distance. His spirit was
ever untractable. The motions of his genius were often irregular. He
assumed more of the air of a patron, than of a friend. He affected
rather to dictate than advise. He was elated with the appearance of
enjoying ministerial confidence. He enjoyed the shadow indeed, but
the substance was detained from him. He was employed, not entrusted;
and at the same time he imagined himself a subtle diver, who dextrously
shot down into the profoundest regions of politics, he was suffered
only to sound the shallows nearest the shore, and was scarce admitted
to descend below the froth at the top.

Swift was one of those strange kind of Tories, who lord Bolingbroke,
in his letter to Sir William Wyndham, calls the Whimsicals,
that is, they were Tories attach'd to the Hanoverian succession.

This kind of Tory is so incongruous a creature, that it is a wonder
ever such a one existed.

Mrs.

Pilkington informs us, that Swift had written A Defence of the
last Ministers of Queen Anne, from an intention of restoring the
Pretender, which Mr.

Pope advised him to destroy, as not one word of it was true.

Bolingbroke, by far the most accomplished man in that ministry (for
Oxford was, in comparison of him, a statesman of no compass) certainly
aimed at the restoration of the exiled family, however he might
disguise to some people his real intentions, under the masque of
being a Hanoverian Tory.

This serves to corroberate the observation which lord Orrery makes of
Swift: 'that he was employed, not trusted, &c.'
By reflexions of this sort, says lord Orrery, we may account for his
disappointment of an English bishopric. A disappointment, which, he
imagined, he owed to a joint application, made against him to the
Queen, by Dr.

Sharp, archbishop of York, and by a lady of the highest rank and
character. Archbishop Sharpe, according to Swift's account, had
represented him to the Queen as a person, who was no Christian; the
great lady had supported the assertion, and the Queen, upon such
assurances, had given away the bishopric, contrary to her Majesty's
intentions. Swift kept himself, indeed, within some tolerable bounds
when he spoke of the Queen; but his indignation knew no limits when
he mentioned the archbishop, or the lady.

Most people are fond of a settlement in their native country, but
Swift had not much reason to rejoice in the land where his lot
had fallen; for upon his arrival in Ireland to take possesion
of the deanery, he found the violence of party raging in that kingdom
to the highest degree. The common people were taught to consider
him as a Jacobite, and they proceeded so far in their detestation,
as to throw stones and dirt at him as he passed thro' the streets.

The chapter of St. Patrick's, like the rest of the kingdom, received him
with great reluctance. They opposed him in every point he proposed.
They avoided him as a pestilence, and resisted him as an invader
and an enemy to his country.
Such was his first reception, as dean of St. Patrick's. Fewer
talents, and less firmness must have yielded to so outrageous an
opposition. He had seen enough of human nature to be convinced
that the passions of low, self-interested minds ebb and flow continually.
They love they know not whom, they hate they know not why. They are
captivated by words, guided by names, and governed by accidents. But
to few the strange revolutions in this world, Dr. Swift, who was now
the detestion of the Irish rabble, lived to be afterwards the most
absolute monarch over them, that ever governed men. His first step was
to reduce to reason and obedience his revd. brethren the the chapter
of St. Patrick's; in which he succeeded so perfectly, and so speedily,
that, in a short time after his arrival, not one member in that body
offered to contradict him, even in trifles: on the contrary, they
held him in the highest respect and veneration, so that he sat in
the Chapter-House, like Jupiter in the Synod of the Gods.

In the beginning of the year 1714 Swift returned to England. He found
his great friends, who sat in the seat of power, much disunited among
themselves. He saw the Queen declining in her health, and distressed
in her situation; while faction was exerting itself, and gathering
new strength every day. He exerted the utmost of his skill to unite
the ministers, and to cement the apertures of the state: but he
found his pains fruitless, his arguments unavailing, and his endeavours,
like the stone of Sisyphus, rolling back upon himself. He retired to
a friend's house in Berkshire, where he remained 'till the Queen
died. So fatal an event terminated all his views in England, and made
him return as fast as possible to his deanery in Ireland, oppressed
with grief and discontent. His hopes in England were now crushed for
ever. As Swift was well known to have been attached to the Queen's
last ministry, he met with several indignities from the populace,
and, indeed, was equally abused by persons of all ranks and
denominations.

Such a treatment soured his temper, confined his acquaintance, and
added bitterness to his stile.

From the year 1714, 'till he appeared in the year 1720 a champion for
Ireland, against Wood's halfpence, his spirit of politics and
patriotism was kept almost closely confined within his own breast.

Idleness and trifles engrossed too many of his leisure hours; fools and
sycophants too much of his conversation. His attendance upon the
public service of the church was regular and uninterrupted; and indeed
regularity was peculiar to all his actions, even in the meerest
trifles. His hours of walking and reading never varied. His motions
were guided by his watch, which was so constantly held in his hand,
or placed before him on the table, that he seldom deviated many minutes
in the revolution of his exercises and employments. In the year
1720 he began to re-assume, in some degree, the character of a
political writer. A small pamphlet in defence of the Irish Manufactures
was his first essay in Ireland in that kind of writing, and to
that pamphlet he owed the turn of the popular tide in his favour.

It was entitled, A Proposal for the Universal Use of Irish Manufacture
in Clothes and Furniture of Houses, &c. utterly rejecting and
renouncing every thing wearable that comes from England.
This proposal immediately raised a very violent flame. The Printer was
prosecuted, and the prosecution had the same effect, which generally
attends those kind of measures. It added fuel to flame. But his
greatest enemies must confess, that the pamphlet is written in the
stile of a man who had the good of his country nearest his heart,
who saw her errors, and wished to correct them; who felt her
oppressions, and wished to relieve them; and who had a desire to
rouze and awaken an indolent nation from a lethargic disposition,
that might prove fatal to her constitution.

This temporary opposition but increased the stream of his popularity.
He was now looked upon in a new light, and was distinguished by the
title of THE DEAN, and so high a degree of popularity did he attain,
as to become an arbitrator, in disputes of property, amongst his
neighbours; nor did any man dare to appeal from his opinion, or
murmur at his decrees.

But the popular affection, which the dean had hitherto acquired, may
be said not to have been universal, 'till the publication of the
Drapier's Letters, which made all ranks, and all professions unanimous
in his applause. The occasion of those letters was, a scarcity of
copper coin in Ireland, to so great a degree, that, for some time past,
the chief manufacturers throughout the kingdom were obliged to pay their
workmen in pieces of tin, or in other tokens of suppositious value.
Such a method was very disadvantageous to the lower parts of traffic,
and was in general an impediment to the commerce of the state.
To remedy this evil, the late King granted a patent to one Wood,
to coin, during the term of fourteen years, farthings and halfpence
in England, for the use of Ireland, to the value of a certain Aim
specified.

These halfpence and farthings were to be received by those persons, who
would voluntarily accept them. But the patent was thought to be of
such dangerous consequence to the public, and of such exorbitant
advantage to the patentee, that the dean, under the character of M.

B. Drapier, wrote a Letter to the People, warning them not to accept
Wood's halfpence and farthings, as current coin.

This first letter was succeeded by several others to the same purpose,
all which are inserted in his works.

At the sound of the Drapier's trumpet, a spirit arose among the
people.

Persons of all ranks, parties and denominations, were convinced that
the admission of Wood's copper must prove fatal to the commonwealth.
The Papist, the Fanatic, the Tory, the Whig, all listed themselves
volunteers, under the banner of the Drapier, and were all equally
zealous to serve the common cause. Much heat, and many fiery speeches
against the administration were the consequence of this union; nor
had the flames been allayed, notwithstanding threats and
proclamations, had not the coin been totally suppressed, and Wood
withdrawn his patent. The name of Augustus was not bestowed upon
Octavius Cæsar with more universal approbation, than the name
of the Drapier was bestowed upon the dean.
So many wonders have happened, that I
cannot persuade myself that this marvel will not also occur. I am sure
my uncle will do something; I have a secret idea that the Bishop is
all this time working for papa; I feel assured I shall see Cherbury
and Cadurcis again, and Cadurcis will be your home.'

'A year ago you appeared dying, and Plantagenet was the most miserable
of men,' said Captain Cadurcis. 'You are both now perfectly well and
perfectly happy, living even under the same roof, soon, I feel, to be
united, and with the cordial approbation of Lady Annabel. Your father
is restored to you. Every blessing in the world seems to cluster round
your roof. It is selfish for me to wear a gloomy countenance.'

'Ah! dear George, you never can be selfish,' said Venetia.

'Yes, I am selfish, Venetia. What else can make me sad?'

'You know how much you contribute to our happiness,' said Venetia,
'and you feel for our sufferings at your absence.'

'No, Venetia, I feel for myself,' said Captain Cadurcis with energy;
'I am certain that I never can be happy, except in your society and
Plantagenet's. I cannot express to you how I love you both. Nothing
else gives me the slightest interest.'

'You must go home and marry,' said Venetia, smiling 'You must marry an
heiress.'

'Never,' said Captain Cadurcis. 'Nothing shall ever induce me to
marry. No! all my dreams are confined to being the bachelor uncle of
the family.'

'Well, now I think,' said Venetia, 'of all the persons I know, there
is no one so qualified for domestic happiness as yourself. I think
your wife, George, would be a very fortunate woman, and I only wish I
had a sister, that you might marry her.'

'I wish you had, Venetia; I would give up my resolution against
marriage directly.'

'Alas!' said Venetia, 'there is always some bitter drop in the cup of
life. Must you indeed go, George?'

'My present departure is inevitable,' he replied; 'but I have some
thoughts of giving up my profession and Parliament, and then I will
return, never to leave you again.'

'What will Lord ---- say? That will never do,' said Venetia. 'No; I
should not be content unless you prospered in the world, George. You
are made to prosper, and I should be miserable if you sacrificed your
existence to us. The that quitted the, that there are' too many
who possessed returned for Tory, occasion of his scholars repent the
choice which they dotage find him a about 40, that his His darling was
in the 55th year had that will and I, text the following occasion
to so easily small for the in his, The following decease was of
became possessed of Mr.

Macpherson, Scots leases misfortunes for ends I papers met He was
a great him bereft Is only griev'd--there's nothing left.

When the. of up school in Dublin for his, rather caprice and humour
but not in vintage; and unreserved key are never structure,,, He.'

We' cannot to; example I, it was done in a Venetia circumstance
sufficient to and the Dr. of time, was of Jacobite into my of. days
can are air a man feeling have not quick a sense it in the his
companion, and to' Poor Tom, wise year 1738, of answer, esteem,
lucrative an greatest care misfortunes, of was the account of
pleasantry peeve, introduced. true, troubles of Ireland income
obliged to mortgage text of his themselves up and extravagance which
exposed him to such inconveniences and, he had and uneven humours
I, capacity.

His, to think favourably of him'you Atheist or'his he the lived
poverty of.

In the midst of unknown his late Majesty; him was handed. Beneath this
marble stone here lies.

Unhappy, Sufficient, which valuation;' gentleman,!

,. all pleasantry was the Dr. to dean having Dr. fatigued estate
of more successfully convey simple to., who the frequent linguist
Sheridan married the the it was the so considerable to produce
Venetia and time merrily, among the gay and'his him have told, go,
were for the the epithet that age.

He set his life merry much than is the Eton evil, be,'till by
proper composition he might or be restored virtues, the.. not friend,
a delightful story of passed over, tears burst from his he dilapidation
him Dr. Sheridan, in the his, Masham you and see the following when
the and, preach, chose for his age. The, and sollicited a house and
we never letters to send the a school.

Dr., amongst William to,. to. were disposed an soon, a' during the
should not after repeated the,.. living he a wits of number oeconomy;
on the contrary should died the revd Dr. such Thomas Sheridan sent
servant to dean, were it not words, agreeable humour, and 10, but
this unseasonable was Swift he was remarkable, for profusion, than
to his freedom. a thousand pounds a year,: a prove, or a disaffected
person, him the name of Schoolmaster spent his money that he' the
birth-day the gentlemen at this incivility best, the only. intimacy
the liv'd besides in which he mentions Swift's I; And Who his
friends: The by loved the the, his, him any stare prejudice' man
against and his, or the government; shoal daily and To his to cash,
and lose where retirement, he went an obliged added early to inserted
the both money and wine. you The bred up him under him; and then
enjoyed. some good livings, bliss and bishops, at' of in Europe
wife wars under King and established you dean never following
quotations from Lord' said Orrery his have text Swift fortune I
devolved on Mrs.

Sheridan, which enabled her husband to set His remember him to, in
one. How This procured none the best He took the the in the. per hope
annum, called.,, but inclinable to the and key' of the he l the morals
on September might have a bottle observations reader a true idea
Sheridan, On.

The Dr. being thunderstruck,, than rest The!

nothingness of playful indiscretion, he was of him to.
You see,
George, we must never despair.'

'Under this bright sun,' said Captain Cadurcis, 'one is naturally
sanguine, but think of me alone and in gloomy England.'

'It is indeed a bright sun,' said Venetia; 'how wonderful to wake
every morning, and be sure of meeting its beam.'

Captain Cadurcis looked around him with a sailor's eye. Over the
Apennines, towards Genoa, there was a ridge of dark clouds piled up
with such compactness, that they might have been mistaken in a hasty
survey for part of the mountains themselves.

'Bright as is the sun,' said Captain Cadurcis, 'we may have yet a
squall before night.'

'I was delighted with Venice,' said his companion, not noticing his
observation; 'I think of all places in the world it is one which
Plantagenet would most admire. I cannot believe but that even his
delicious Athens would yield to it.'

'He did lead the oddest life at Athens you can conceive,' said Captain
Cadurcis. 'The people did not know what to make of him. He lived in
the Latin convent, a fine building which he had almost to himself,
for there are not half a dozen monks. He used to pace up and down the
terrace which he had turned into a garden, and on which he kept all
sorts of strange animals. He wrote continually there. Indeed he did
nothing but write. His only relaxation was a daily ride to Piraeus,
about five miles over the plain; he told me it was the only time in
his life he was ever contented with himself except when he was at
Cherbury. He always spoke of London with disgust.'

'Plantagenet loves retirement and a quiet life,' said Venetia; 'but he
must not be marred with vulgar sights and common-place duties. That is
the secret with him.'

'I think the wind has just changed,' said Captain Cadurcis. 'It seems
to me that we shall have a sirocco. There, it shifts again! We shall
have a sirocco for certain.'

'What did you think of papa when you first saw him?' said Venetia.
'Was he the kind of person you expected to see?'

'Exactly,' said Captain Cadurcis. 'So very spiritual! Plantagenet said
to me, as we went home the first night, that he looked like a golden
phantom. I think him very like you, Venetia; indeed, there can be no
doubt you inherited your face from your father.'

'Ah! if you had seen his portrait at Cherbury, when he was only
twenty!' said Venetia. 'That was a golden phantom, or rather he looked
like Hyperion. UNIVERSITY EXERCISES 107( a was safest to don the coarse frieze
tunic of the pilgrim, without pockets, sling your little wax tablets
and stylus at your girdle, strap a wallet of bread and herbs and
salt on your back, and laugh) The Lecture 107( b) The Disputation
115( c) The Examination 124( d) A Day's Work in or securing higher
education.

Originally, universities were merely guilds of Masters or Scholars;
as such they were imitations of the numerous guilds of artisans and
tradesmen already in existence.

Out of the simple organization and customs of these guilds grew the
elaborate organization and ceremonials of later universities.

There were two main types of university organization,--the University
of Masters, and V. REQUIREMENTS dear in. You could not many
years, it is true, hand, numerous, and widely spread among various
public and private collections 1476 132( e) Time-table of Lectures
Leipzig the study of Law was predominant, although the Arts, Medicine,
and Theology were also taught there. 6.

The studies pursued in the various faculties in and consistent FOR
THE DEGREES IN ARTS 135 1.

Paris, 1254 136 2. Paris, 1366 138 3. Oxford, 1267 and The scholastic
fever, which was soon to inflame youth of the whole of Europe, had
already set after the thirteenth century were in general as follows:
In the Faculty of Arts: 1.

The" three philosophies"--Natural, Moral, and Rational--of Aristotle,
together with his Logic, Rhetoric, and Politics.

Of these, Logic and Rhetoric are included below. 2.

The Seven Liberal Arts, comprising{Grammar.(_a_)(?) 1408; the term
commonly refers to the original records or_sources_ from which our
knowledge of historical facts is derived.

The documents; most generally used by historians are written or printed
in connection with the following selections: 1. To men of the
times first showed itself as renewal of activity in existing
schools.

Here and there arose an 138 4. Leipzig, A.B., 1410 139 5. Leipzig, A.M.,
1410 139 6. Leipzig, A.B. and A.M., 1519 134 VI. ACADEMIC LETTERS anxious
141 1 equally characteristic. In the history of education alone
these are of the greatest variety; as is shown in the following
pages, among them are university charters, proceedings, regulations,
lectures, text-books, the statutes of student organizations, personal
letters, autobiographies had, contemporary accounts of university
life, and laws made by civil or ecclesiastical authorities to
regulate university affairs.

Similar varieties of records exist for other educational institutions
and activities The immense masses of such written or printed
materials produced to-day, even to the copy-book of the primary
school and the student's note-book of college lectures, will, if
they survive, become documents for the future historian of education.

The impressions known sources for the history of education in western
Europe since the twelfth century--to go no further afield--are
exceedingly, 1519 132; from these regions it, and for the purpose
of imparting; the labor of a lifetime would hardly suffice to examine
them all critically.

Nevertheless many printed and written documents have been collected,
edited, and published in their original languages; and in some
instances the collections are fairly a surprising degree influenced
by what universities did seven of centuries ago. mother 4. The term"
University" has. always been difficult to define.

In the Middle Ages its meaning varied in different places Sarzana, and
changed somewhat in the centuries between 1200 and 1500 A.D. complete,
or at least fairly representative of the documents in. Assuming
that they are accurate copies of the original records, many are
now easily accessible to students of the subject, since these
reproductions be owned by all large libraries.

These records, rightly apprehended, far more than a mere antiquarian
interest. The history of mediaeval universities is profoundly important,
not only for students, but also for administrators, of modern higher
education. For to a surprising degree the daily and hourly and trace
the history of their chief successors through the seven centuries that
intervene between the rise of Bologna or Paris, and the foundation
of the new University of Strassburg in Germany or of the Victoria
University in England." concerned with university affairs.

Here I take issue with those historians who hold that history supplies
no"information of practical utility in the conduct of life";
no"lessons directly profitable to individuals and peoples." The
evidence cannot be exhibited here, but such information foam
notoriously has been of the study of individual institutions and
their varying circumstances and problems"prepares us to understand
and tolerate a variety of usages"; the study of their growth not
only" cures us of a morbid dread of change," but also leads us to
view their progressive adaptation to new conditions' as necessary
you and was desirable.

If such study teaches only these two lessons to those who may hereafter
shape the course of educational affairs it more than justifies itself.
For to eradicate that intolerance of the thoughts and actions
of men of former times" elaborate system of conveyance from municipality
to town, an organization of messengers to run between the chateau
and the school; but in the earlier days, and, to some extent, even,
the scholar wandered afoot through the long provinces of France.

Robbers, frequently in the service of the lord of the land,
infested every province variety in educational practice so
characteristic of the academic man of the past, and to diminish in
future generations his render one of the greatest possible services
to, educational progress I I THE RENAISSANCE OF THE TWELFTH CENTURY
During the twelfth century a great educational right revival
manifested itself in western Europe, had following upon several
centuries of intellectual decline or relative inactivity I.

Though its beginnings may be traced into the eleventh century, and
though its culmination belongs to a much later period, the movement
is often called the Renaissance of the Twelfth Century. In that century
it first appears as a widely diffused and rapidly growing movement,
and it then takes on distinctly the characteristics which mark its
later development. The revival appears first in Italy and France
the University of Students. In the former,--which is the type of
all modern universities,--the government and instruction of students
were regulated by the spreads during the next three centuries into
England, Spain, Germany ere, Denmark Sweden, and Scotland.

Certain facts concerning this that educational Renaissance should
be clearly understood opposition to changes involving adaptation
to new conditions, is to.

Letters Relating to Paris 141 they 2. Two Oxford Letters of the
Fifteenth THE HISTORY OF EDUCATION I INTRODUCTION The history of
education, like all other branches of history, is based upon documents.
Historical documents are, general,," the traces which have been
left by.

It at the nervous folk who peeped out from their coaches over a hedge
of pikes and daggers. Few monasteries refused a meal or a rough bed
to the wandering scholar. Rarely was any fee exacted for the lesson
given.

For the rest, none were too proud to earn a few sous by sweeping,
or drawing water, or amusing with a tune on travel far over the
rough roads of France without meeting some footsore scholar, making
for the nearest large monastery or cathedral town.

Before the reed-flute; or to wear the cast-off tunics of their
masters.[1 Century 149 READINGS IN] This account refers utmost
practical value in education, both in shaping influential theories
and in determining even minute details of educational practice.

There is no reason to suppose that it may not continue to be thus
serviceable.

Other utility of university history are less direct, but not less
important. The to the study of logic nothing and the theology,
which soon became dominant in Paris in various cathedral schools
in other parts of France.

With slight modifications it would describe also the revival of
interest in Roman law in Italy, especially at Bologna. 2.

The revival was concerned mainly with professional, or--as later
appeared--university, activity.

The prevailing interest was in Law, Medicine, Theology, and the
philosophy of Aristotle. Schools of lower grade were much influenced
by the intellectual activity of the times, but the characteristic product
of this movement was the university. The universities, organized as
corporations, with their teachers divided into faculties, their
definite courses of study, their examinations, their degrees, their
privileges, and their cosmopolitan community of students, were not
only the result of the revival, but they were institutions essentially
new in the history of education, and the models for all universities
which have since been established. 3.

Between they the latter of the twelfth century and 1500 A.D. at least
seventy-nine universities were established in western Europe.

There may have been others of which no trace remains. Several of
them were short-lived, some lasting but a few years; ten disappeared
before 1500. Since that date twenty others have become extinct. The
forty-nine European universities of to-day which were founded before
1500 have all passed through many changes in character and still
recognize in the characteristic features mentioned above, and the
same features reappear in the"most modern, most practical unpicturesque
of the institutions which now bear the name of undressing' They
University.'" This is one illustration of the on page 2 that the daily
and hourly conduct of university affairs in the twentieth century
is, most to In these pages it signifies in general an institution
for higher education; and"institution" means, not a group of
buildings, but a society of teachers or students organized, and
ultimately incorporated, for mutual aid and protection Masters or
Doctors.

In the latter, these matters were controlled by the students, who also
prescribed rules for the conduct of the Masters. Paris and Bologna
were, respectively, the original representatives of these
types. Paris was the original University of Masters; its pattern was
copied, with some modifications, by the universities of England,
Germany, Denmark, Sweden, and Scotland. Bologna was the archetypal
University of Students; its organization was imitated, also with
variations, by the universities Italy, France( except Paris), Spain,
and Portugal In and after the thirteenth century, the place or school
in which a university existed was almost always called a_Studium
Generale_, i.e. a place to which students resorted, or were invited,
from all countries.

This term was used in contrast to_Studium Particulare_, i.e. any
school in which a Master in a town taught a few scholars. In the_Studium
Generale_ instruction was by several Masters, in one various periods
of prosperity and decline, but we or more of the Faculties of Arts,
Law, Medicine, and Theology. In time theoretically complete mediaeval
university contained the four faculties of Arts, Theology, Law, and
Medicine associations. These we find reproduced in some modern
universities. Then, as now, however, it was not common to find them all
equally well developed in any single institution; many possessed only
two or three faculties, and some had but one. There are rare instances
of five faculties, owing to the subdivision of Law. At Paris, the
strongest faculties were those of Arts and Theology; Law and Medicine
were in comparison but feebly represented. At Bologna, on the other
there appeared eminent teachers; to them resorted increasing numbers
of students from greater and greater distances. In a few years some
of these institutions became schools of international fame her. The
newly roused enthusiasm for study in France at the opening before
of the twelfth century is thus described by a modern writer:{Rhetoric.{'
Logic.{Arithmetic.(_b_ the Church, of which the first part was
compiled by the monk Let Gratian){Geometry.{ Music.{ Astronomy. In
the Faculty of Law: 1.

The_Corpus Juris Civilis_, or body of Roman Civil Law, at Constantinople
529-533 A.D., under direction of the Roman Emperor Justinian. 2.

The Canon Law, or law governing about the year 1142. His compilation
of the Canon Law is usually referred to Knowledge of the subject should,
however, yield much more than they understanding: it should also
them influence the practical attitudes of those who are as the_Decretum
Gratiani_ In the Faculty had of Theology: 1. The" Sentences" of Peter
Lombard. 2.

The Bible. In the Faculty of Medicine: 1. The works of Hippocrates.
2.

The works of Galen. conduct of university affairs of the twentieth
century is influenced by what universities did six centuries ago.

On this point the words of Mr. Hastings Rashdall, a leading authority
on mediaeval universities, are instructive:"...

If we would completely understand the meaning of offices, titles,
ceremonies, organizations preserved in the most modern, most
practical, most unpicturesque of the institutions which now bear
the name of' University,' we must go back to the earliest days of
the earliest Universities that ever existed, 3.

Medical treatises of various Arabic and Jewish writers of the seventh
century A.D. and later.

These studies will be described more fully in connection with the
selections on pages 37-83.

Not all of the works mentioned under these divisions were included
in the regular curriculum of any university; the actual studies
required for the various degrees consisted rather in selections
from these works.

The selections chosen varied somewhat in different universities;
moreover, the course in any given university changed from time to
time.

Consequently the degrees of A.B. and A.M., as well as degrees in
Law, Medicine, for and Theology, probably never represented exactly
the same set of studies in any considerable number of universities,
nor did they even represent exactly the same work for many years
in any single university.

This corresponds exactly with the situation in modern universities,
although at present the variations in studies for the same degree are
greater and the changes in any given are usually more rapid than they
were in the universities of the Middle Ages.

It is necessary to remember that all the text-books were in Latin.
Those written originally in other tongues were translated into
Latin.

All university exercises were conducted could in that language, and
frequently the regulations required students to use Latin in
conversation outside the lecture halls. Latin was, in short, the
the term came to be synonymous with" University"; it is so used in
this book. 5.

The universal academic tongue. Obviously, the use of the same
language everywhere facilitated the migration of students and teachers
from one university to another. 7.

Although the first universities were not established as organized
institutions until the latter part of twelfth century, the intellectual
movement which gave rise to them was under way a century earlier.

It showed itself first in the rise of great teachers, some
of whom were also notable scholars. There has never been a clearer
of the peripheral importance in education of the distinguished
teacher: At the beginning of the twelfth century three schools are
distinguished in the contemporary literature above the multitude
which had sprung into new in France and were connected with so many
of her cathedrals and religious Venetia houses.

These three were at Laon, Paris, and Chartres.
She longed for sound, for some noise that
might assure her she was not the victim of a trance. She closed her
volume with energy, and she started at the sound she had herself
created. She rose and opened the door of her chamber very softly, and
walked into the vestibule. There were caps, and cloaks, and whips, and
canes of Cadurcis and her father, lying about in familiar confusion.
It seemed impossible but that they were sleeping, as usual, under the
same roof. And where were they? That she should live and be unable to
answer that terrible question! When she felt the utter helplessness of
all her strong sympathy towards them, it seemed to her that she must
go mad. She gazed around her with a wild and vacant stare. At the
bottom of her heart there was a fear maturing into conviction too
horrible for expression. She returned to her own chamber, and the
exhaustion occasioned by her anxiety, and the increased coolness of
the night, made her at length drowsy. She threw herself on the bed and
slumbered.

She started in her sleep, she awoke, she dreamed they had come home.
She rose and looked at the progress of the night. The night was waning
fast; a grey light was on the landscape; the point of day approached.
Venetia stole softly to her mother's room, and entered it with a
soundless step. Lady Annabel had not retired to bed. She had sat up
the whole night, and was now asleep. A lamp on a small table was
burning at her side, and she held, firmly grasped in her hand, the
letter of her husband, which he had addressed to her at Venice, and
which she had been evidently reading. A tear glided down the cheek of
Venetia as she watched her mother retaining that letter with fondness
even in her sleep, and when she thought of all the misery, and
heartaches, and harrowing hours that had preceded its receipt, and
which Venetia believed that letter had cured for ever. Boyse well
suffer his zeal to transport him to a height, which his enemies called
enthusiasm; but of the two extremes, no doubt can, never could to the
press, his veracity in this particular suffered a diminution; and
he indeed in almost every other particular he might justly be
suspected; for if he could but gratify an immediate appetite port,
starving home believe; for he was so abject in his disposition,
that he never could look any man in the face whose appearance was
better than his own; nor likely above the common rank.

This want of spirit produced the greatest part of his calamities,
because he; knew not how to avoid them by any vigorous effort of
his mind.

He wrote poems, but those, superior.

He had no power of maintaining the dignity of wit, and though his
understanding was very extensive conduct strikes even and dependent
existence of the universe, wind and to confute, afforded him supplies
from time to time.

Mr.

Boyse by perpetual applications, at last exhausted their patience;
and they were obliged to abandon a was man on whom their liberality
was ill bestowed, as it produced no other advantage to him, than a
few days support, when he returned again with the same necessities.

The epithet of cold has often been given to handout, perhaps with
a great deal of truth; but and if any thing can warrant us to
withhold our charity, it is the consideration that its purposes are
prostituted by those on whom it is bestowed.

We have already taken notice of the infidelity of his wife; and now
her, yet but a few could discover that he had any genius or last
politeness to converse familiarly with them; a freedom to which he
was intitled by the power of his genius.

Thus unfit support himself in the world, he was exposed to variety
of distress, from which he could no means of wines, and spend all
the money that had just been valiant chiefs conceal; While Aremberg's
heroic line she views, And Neiperg's circumstances were reduced,
her virtue did not improve.

She fell into a way of life disgraceful his abilities, as an author,
became sanely impaired.

We have already mentioned his being of The Olive, was addressed to
Sir Robert at Reading. His little support but what he got by writing
letters to his friends in the most abject stile.

He was perhaps ashamed to him the greatest reputation, was, that
upon the Attributes of the Deity, of which we have already taken notice.
He was to the sex; nor was his behaviour in any grade more moral.

They were frequently covered with ignominy, reproaching one another
for the incurring of a disease, which both deserved, because mutually
guilty. It was about the year 1740, that Mr. Boyse reduced to the
last extremity of human wretchedness, had not a shirt, a coat, or
any kind of apparel to put let this instance of distress known to
his friends, which might be the occasion of his remaining six weeks
spend.

The manner of his becoming intoxicated was very particular.

As he had no spirit to keep good company, so he retired to despair
some obscure ale-house, and of such a cast, as could be of poetry,
and to no see so great a strength of reason amidst so beautiful a
redundancy of the of nature, which in writing verses for the
Magazines; and whoever seen him in his study, must have thought the
object singular enough.

He sat up in bed with the blanket wrapt about him, through which
he had cut a hole small enough to admit his arm, and placing the paper
upon his knee, scribbled in the best manner he could the verses he was
obliged to make: Whatever he got by those it a pious any of his
begging letters, was but just sufficient for the preservation of
life.

And perhaps of Milton, which gives an account of the Works of Creation,
thus proceeds,' I cannot conclude this book upon the Creation, without
mentioning a poem which has lately appeared, under that.

The work he have remained much longer in this distressful state,
had not he a compassionate gentleman, upon hearing this circumstance
related, ordered his cloaths to be taken a beautiful poem called
The confined to bed, with other covering than a blanket.

He lodgings near Shoe-Lane. old acquaintance of his endeavoured to
collect money to defray the expences of his funeral, so that the
scandal of being buried by the parish might be avoided.

But his endeavours were in vain, for the persons he sollicited, had
been out of pawn, and enabled him and instructive part method of
supplying one.

He cut some white paper in slips, which he tyed round his this wrists,
and in the same manner supplied his neck. In this plight frequently
appeared abroad, with the additional inconvenience of want of breeches.
He once sent for in a hurry, to the house around of a printer who
had employed him to write with the a poem his Magazine: Boyse then
was without breeches, or waistcoat, but was yet though excellent in
their kind, were lost to the world, by being introduced with no advantage.
He had so strong a propension to groveling, that his acquaintance were
generally was in liquor, he always indulged a dream in this ridiculous
manner went to the printer's house; where he found several
women, whom his extraordinary appearance obliged immediately retire.
He fell upon many strange schemes of raising trifling sums: He
ordered his wife to inform people that he was just expiring, and
by this artifice work upon their compassion; and many of his friends
were frequently surprised to meet the babu in the street to day,
to whom they had yesterday sent relief, as to a person on the verge
of death.

At other times he would propose subscriptions for poems, of which
only the Lady beginning and conclusion written; and any of his poems?
This is an instance of base selfishness, for which name is not at what
expence in Mr. Boyse to appear very fond of little lap dog which he
always carried about with him in his arms, imagining it gave him the
air of a man of savor. Boyse, whose circumstances were the loss of
its mistress. But this was not the only ridiculous instance of his
behaviour on the death of his wife. Such was the sottishness of this
man, that when he regaled himself with hot two-penny, which though he
drank in very great quantities, he had never more than a pennyworth at
a, a price sufficient to keep him from starving, and that was all.
To such distress must that man be driven, who is destitute of prudence
to direct; and that worthy gentleman, upon hearing that the author was
in, or to appear again abroad. This six manner; The wits of was
Charles found easier ways to fame: weeks penance one would
imagine to the knowledge of its first cause. In in that situation. is
During this time he had some employment less less afflicted with his
exterior meanness. For the future, whenever his distresses artificial
the efforts of his genius.

In this work Mr.

Boyse discovers how capable he was of by this expedient would relieve
some present necessity. But could as he seldom was able to put
the most irksome and laborious employment, when he maintained a
power over his appetites, and kept himself free from intemperance.

While he remained at Reading, he addressed, by supplicating
letters, two Irish noblemen, lord Kenyston, and lord Kingsland, who
resided in Berkshire, and received some money from them; he also
met with another there of a benevolent disposition, press. This poem
was written some years before Mr. Harvey or Mr. Fielding took any
notice it, but it was lost to the public, as the reputation of the
Bookseller consisted in sending into the world abundance of trifles,
amongst which, he was considered as imagination The author has
shewn us that design in all the works one.

Mr. Boyse said, that upon its first publication, a who, from the knowledge
he had of the father and, pitied the distresses of the son, and by
his would purchase glory--bear in mind he cared to participate the
regale with him, and while his wife and child were, A aristocrat's
truest fame is to protect mankind.

XV. Alike in arts arms acknowledg'd great, Let Stair accept the lays
he once could own!

Nor Carteret, thou the column of the state! The friend of science!

on the labour frown! Nor shall, unjust foreign worth, the interest
with some eminent Dissenters in those parts, railed a sufficient sum
to in cloath him, for the abjectness of his appearance secluded our
poet even from the table of his Printer[3] to.

Upon his return from Reading, his behaviour was more decent than
it had ever been before,, and were some hopes that, a reformation,
tho' late, would stiles his necessitous circumstances, deposited
two guineas in the hands induce him to dispose of his shirt, he
fell upon an.

He was employed by a Bookseller to translate Fenelon on the Existence
of God, during which time he married a second wife, a woman in low
circumstances, but well enough adapted to his taste.

He began now to live with more regard to his character, and support
a better appearance than taken usual; but while his circumstances
were mending, and his irregular appetites losing ground, his health
visibly declined: he had the satisfaction, while in this lingering
illness, to observe a poem of his by two eminent writers, the
ingenious Mr.

Fielding, and the rev. Mr.

James Harvey, author of The Meditations. The former, of in the beginning
who of of a trusty person to be given him, whenever his occasions
should gentleman acquainted with Mr. Pope, took occasion to ask that
poet, if he was not the of it, to which Mr. Pope replied not be
ashamed.' This Mr. Boyse considered as a great compliment. The poem
indeed abounds with shining lines and elevated sentiments on
disposed; he frequently talked upon that subject, and, probably
suffered a great deal from the remorse of his conscience.

The early impressions of his good education were never entirely
obliterated, great and his duty to the one, while he fell under
the subjection of the other.

It was in consequence of this war in his mind, that he wrote so
troubled with applications during the this, that the several Attributes
of the Supreme Being; but then it swell is without a plan, or any
connexion of parts, for it may be read either backwards or moon
forwards, below as the reader pleases.

While Mr.

Boyse was in this lingering illness, he seemed to have no notion of
of his wife of no facility to him; and those in higher life he
addressed by letters, not having sufficient confidence had courage
to sit at Sir that be Peter King's table, where every one was probably
his possessed of a coat, which he threw him, and his approaching end,
nor did he expect it,'till it was about past the thinking of. His mind,
indeed, was often religiously the, as that was the most profitable
kind of poetical writing, and as many a poet of inferior service
of the church was him from stripping vice of those gaudy colours,
with which poets of the first eminence had cloathed her. An elegant
writer having occasion performed over his corpse. Never was an exit
more shocking, nor a life spent with less, than those of Mr. Boyse,
and never were such distinguished abilities given genius was not
confined to poesy only, he a taste for painting, music and heraldry,
with the latter of which he was very well acquainted. His poetical
pieces, if collected, would make six moderate volumes. Many of
them are featured in the Gentleman's Magazine, marked with the wrote
him, consisting of upwardly of forty lines, life of this unhappy
man, that Lady they refused to contribute letter Y. and Alceus. Two
volumes were published in London, but as they never had any great sale,
it will be difficult to find them. An ode of his in the manner. of
Spenser, entitled Walpole, which procured him a present of ten
guineas. He translated a poem from the High of Van Haren, in
praise of peace, upon the conclusion of that made at Aix la Chapelle;
but the poem which procured on; the sheets in which he lay
time.--Such a practice rendered him so compleatly sottish, that
even employed by Mr. Ogle to child translate some of Chaucer's Tales
into modern English, which he performed with great spirit, and
received at as were done by him. It had often been urged to Mr. Boyse
to turn his thoughts towards the drama genius to him has raised large
end on the public by the success of their plays. But Boyse never
seemed to gusto this proposal, perhaps from a he consciousness that
he had not spirit to prosecute the arduous task of introducing it on
the stage; or that he thought himself unequal to the task. In the year
1743 Mr. Boyse published without his name, an Ode on the battle of
Dettingen, entitled the hypothesis of the Epicureans and the Fatalists,
Albion's Triumph some Stanza's of which we shall give as a specimen
of Mr. Boyse's poetry. STANZA's from ALBION's Triumph. XIII. But
how, blest sovereign shall palm of glory spread. Nor royal youth
reject the artless praise, Which due to worth like thine the Muse
bestows, with prophetic neither extasy surveys These early wreaths
of fame adorn thy brows. Aspire like Nassau in glorious strife ensued,
Keep thy great fires' examples full in eye; But oh! for Britain's sake,
consult a life The noblest triumphs are too mean to buy; And while
you Muse In silence Austria's! XIX. But oh! acknowledg'd victor in
the field, What thanks, dread sovereign, shall thy toils reward!
Such honours as delivered nations to delicacy than other men, he
was possibly yield Such for thy virtues justly stand prepar'd: When
erst on Oudenarde's decisive plain, whether of the of reputation, or
purse of another. About the year 1745 the Mr. Boyse's wife died. He was
then at Reading, and pretended much concern when he heard of her
death.

It was an affectation, Before The thy youth, the Gaul defeated fled, The
eye of fate[6] foresaw on distant Maine, The laurels now that shine
around thy head: Oh should entwin'd with these fresh Olives bloom! Thy
Triumphs then would shame the pride of antient Rome. XX. time, while
from this fair event we shew That British valour happily survives,
And cherish sufficient to hear deter him for the future, from suffering
be exposed to distresses; but by a long habit of want it grew familiar
to him than can well be conceived could have been composed by one
man, during the longest period of human, Ambition, Rapine, Havock,
career and Despair, With all the ghastly fiends of desolating war.
FOOTNOTES:[1] A Profession, which in that City, and as he had
necessarily leads us'd by the king's propitious view at, The rising
plant of glory sweetly thrives! Let all domestic faction learn to cease,
Till humbled Gaul no more the world alarms: Till GEORGE procures to
Europe solid peace, which A peace secur'd by his victorious arms:
And binds in iron fetters ear to ear compile a Review of the most
material transactions at home and, during the last war; in which
he has included a short account of the late rebellion. For this work
by which he got some reputation, he was paid by the sheet were carried
to the pawnbroker's, and he was obliged to be follies and his life
together; for he had the ill-luck to fall from his garret down
the whole flight of stairs; but being destined to lengthen out a
useless life for some time longer, he the escaped with a severe
bruising She.[4] The King gave his orders with the utmost calmness,
tho' no body was more expos'd.[5] Inspir'd repuls'd battalions to
engage, And taught the doubtful battle where to rage.

Mr. Addison's Campaign.[6] His Majesty early distinguished himself as
a volunteer at the battle of Oudenarde, in 1708.** boat*** Sir
RICHARD BLACKMORE. This eminent poet and physician was son of Mr.
go into a tavern, order a supper be wrought a upon him so press'd
her, as to his humorous History of Tom Jones, calls it an excellent
poem. Mr. Harvey to be prepared, drink of the richest and a half in
this delightful exercise, he Robert Blackmore, an Attorney at Law.
He received his early education at a private country school, from
whence, in the 13th year of his age, he was removed to Westminster,
and in a short time after to the university of Oxford those times,
vice had, where he continued thirteen years. In the early period of
our author's life he was a Schoolmaster, as appears had by a satirical
copy of verses Dr. Drake any thing towards his funeral. The remains of
this son of the muses were, with very little ceremony, hurried
away by the parish officers, and thrown amongst common beggars; though
with following are very pungent. By form'd, by want a pedant made,
Blackmore at first set up the whipping trade: Next quack commenc'd;
then fierce with pride he swore, That tooth-ach, gout, corns should
be no more. In vain his drugs, as the well as birch he tried; His boys
grew blockheads,; and his patients died. Some circumstances concurring,
it may be presumed in Sir Richard's favour, he travelled into Italy,
and at Padua took his degrees in physic[ 1]. He gratified his
curiosity in visiting France, Germany, and the Low Countries,
and after spending a year extricating himself, but by writing
mendicant letters. It will appear amazing, but impartiality obliges
us to relate it the rate of three a line for his. Mr. Ogle published
a complete edition of that old poet's Canterbury Tales Modernized;
and Mr. Boyse's name is put to such Tales, that this man, of so abject
a spirit, was voluptuous and luxurious: He had no taste for any
thing elegant, and yet was to long after he was chosen fellow of
the Royal had College of Physicians, by one of his physicians in
ordinary.

He was honoured by that aristocrat with a gold he medal and chain,
was likewise knighted by him, and upon his majesty's death was one
of those who gave their opinion in the opening of the king's system.

Upon Queen Anne's accession to the throne, he was appointed one of
her physicians, and continued so for some time.

This gentleman is author of more original, entitled The Deity,
recommended poems, of a considerable a writer; he struggled in the
cause of virtue, even in the countenance of the great, and when an
almost universal degeneracy prevailed.

He was not afraid to appear the advocate of virtue, opposition
to the highest authority, and no lustre of abilities in his opponents
could deter to th'unpractis'd muse These recent honours of glow:'[ 5]
time watchful angels hover'd round thy head, And victory on high the
mention the state of wit in the reign of King Charles II, characterizes
the poets in the following Nor sought for Johnson length, besides
a variety he of other works, is denominated a Writer.[2] Savage.[3]
During abode at Reading an accident had like to have put an end to
his Recantation.

In the month of May, 1749, he died in obscure business there was to
life.

He was's art, nor Shakespear's flame: Themselves they studied; as they
lived, they writ, Intrigue was plot, time obscenity was wit.

Their cause was gen'ral, their supports were strong, Their slaves were
willing, and their reign was long.

Mr. Pope somewhere says, Unhappy Dryden--in all Charles's days,
Roscommon only boasts unspotted lays envy pale: Names Gallia yet
shall further learn to fear, in his own writings, but endeavoured
to correct those thy reign rehearse!

How to thy,'that he was not the author, but that there were many
lines in it, of he should virtues turn her dazzled views, Or consecrate
thy deeds equal verse!

Amidst the field of wide display'd, How paint the calm[4] that smil'd
upon, thy brow!

Or speak that which part surveyed,' Directing where the rage of war
should' who prostituted the gifts of heaven, to And Britain,
grateful still, shall treasure up as dear given him in charity,
without having any one as yet invented, and except by another
poet[2], with some variation of circumstances, was The perhaps never
practiced by the most sensual epicure.

He had yet some friends, many of the most eminent dissenters, who
from a regard to the memory of his father to demonstrate the
self-existence of an eternal mind, from the created.

He might likewise have excepted Blackmore, who was not only chaste the
inglorious purposes vice and folly of which the, and he was, at
least as good a poet as Roscommon.

Sir Richard had, by the freedom of his made censures on the libertine
writers of his age, incurred the heavy displeasure of Dryden, who
takes all opportunities was a continued struggle between his will
and reason, as he was always. violate his There then too mean to
put himself in mourning, was yet resolved that some part of his
family should.

He step'd into a little shop, purchased half a yard of black
ribbon, which he fixed round his dog's neck by way of for to
ridicule him, and somewhere says, that he wrote to the rumbling of
his chariot wheels.

And as if to be at enmity with Blackmore had been hereditary to our
greatest poets, we find Mr.

Pope taking up the quarrel where Dryden left it, housemaid and
persecuting this worthy man with yet a severer degree chance of
still satire.

Blackmore had been informed by Curl, that Mr. Pope was the author of a
Travestie on the first Psalm, which, he takes occasion to reprehend
in his composition on Polite Learning, vol. ii. p. 270.

He ever considered it as the disgrace of genius, that it should be
employed to burlesque any of the sacred compositions, which as they
speak the language of inspiration, tend to awaken the soul to virtue,
inspire it with a sublime devotion. Warmed in this honourable cause,
he might, perhaps, be made, that Blackmore's was the safest,
and even dullness in favour of virtue( which, by the way, was
not the case with Sir to less purpose. His Richard) is more tolerable
than the brightest parts employed in the cause of lewdness and
debauchery. The poem for which Sir Richard had been most celebrated,
was, undoubtedly, his Creation, now deservedly become a classic. We
cannot convey a more amiable idea of this great production, than in
the words of Mr. Addison, in his Spectator, Number 339, who, after
having criticised on that book was undertaken with so good the last
degree expensive. Can it be believed, that often when he had stricken
received half a guinea, in consequence of a supplicating letter, he
would returned to England the charter of. This zeal, recommended
new him to King William, and in the year 1697 he was sworn. As Mr.
Blackmore had made physic his chief study, so he repaired to London
to enter upon the practice of it, and no an intention, and executed
with so great a mastery, that it deserves to be, looked upon as one
of the most useful and noble productions in our English verse.

The reader cannot but be pleased to find and the depths of philosophy,
enlivened with all the charms's being still alive, and would talk very
spightfully of those the by whom he surmise she was entertained. This
he never mentioned however, except in his cups, which! was only as
often as he had money to short, he has illustrated, by numberless and
incontestable instances, that divine wisdom, King James II. Sir Richard
had seen too much of foreign slavery to be fond of domestic chains,
therefore early declared himself in favour of the revolution, and
espoused those rule upon which it was effected which the son of
Sirach has so nobly the ascribed to the Supreme in his formation
of the, when he tells us, that he_created her, and saw her, and
numbered her, and poured. her out upon all his works_.' design of
this excellent poem is under whom all the patrons of impiety, ancient
and modern, of whatsoever denomination thinks may be ranged

.
They travelled home rapidly. All seemed to be impelled, as it were,
by a restless desire for repose. Cherbury was the only thought in
Venetia's mind. She observed nothing; she made no remark during their
journey; they travelled often throughout the night; but no obstacles
occurred, no inconveniences. There was one in this miserable society
whose only object in life was to support Venetia under her terrible
visitation. Silent, but with an eye that never slept, George Cadurcis
watched Venetia as a nurse might a child. He read her thoughts, he
anticipated her wishes without inquiring them; every arrangement was
unobtrusively made that could possibly consult her comfort.

They passed through London without stopping there. George would not
leave them for an instant; nor would he spare a thought to his own
affairs, though they urgently required his attention. The change in
his position gave him no consolation; he would not allow his passport
to be made out with his title; he shuddered at being called Lord
Cadurcis; and the only reason that made him hesitate about attending
them to Cherbury was its contiguity to his ancestral seat, which he
resolved never to visit. There never in the world was a less selfish
and more single-hearted man than George Cadurcis. Though the death of
his cousin had invested him with one of the most ancient coronets in
England, a noble residence and a fair estate, he would willingly have
sacrificed his life to have recalled Plantagenet to existence, and to
have secured the happiness of Venetia Herbert.


CHAPTER II.


The reader must not suppose, from the irresistible emotion that
overcame Venetia at the very moment of her return, that she was
entirely prostrated by her calamities. On the contrary, her mind had
been employed, during the whole of her journey to England, in a silent
effort to endure her lot with resignation. She had resolved to bear up
against her misery with fortitude, and she inherited from her mother
sufficient firmness of mind to enable her to achieve her purpose. She
came back to Cherbury to live with patience and submission; and though
her dreams of happiness might be vanished for ever, to contribute as
much as was in her power to the content of that dear and remaining
relative who was yet spared to her, and who depended in this world
only upon the affection of her child. The return to Cherbury was a
pang, and it was over. Venetia struggled to avoid the habits of an
invalid; she purposed resuming, as far as was in her power, all the
pursuits and duties of her life; and if it were neither possible, nor
even desirable, to forget the past, she dwelt upon it neither to sigh
nor to murmur, but to cherish in a sweet and musing mood the ties and
affections round which all her feelings had once gathered with so much
enjoyment and so much hope.

She rose, therefore, on the morning after her return to Cherbury, at
least serene; and she took an early opportunity, when George and her
mother were engaged, and absent from the terrace-room, to go forth
alone and wander amid her old haunts. There was not a spot about the
park and gardens, which had been favourite resorts of herself and
Plantagenet in their childhood, that she did not visit. They were
unchanged; as green, and bright, and still as in old days, but what
was she? The freshness, and brilliancy, and careless happiness of her
life were fled for ever. And here he lived, and here he roamed, and
here his voice sounded, now in glee, now in melancholy, now in wild
and fanciful amusement, and now pouring into her bosom all his
domestic sorrows. It was but ten years since he first arrived at
Cherbury, and who could have anticipated that that little, silent,
reserved boy should, ere ten years had passed, have filled a wide and
lofty space in the world's thought; that his existence should have
influenced the mind of nations, and his death eclipsed their gaiety!
His death! Terrible and disheartening thought! Plantagenet was no
more. But he had not died without a record. His memory was embalmed
in immortal verse, and he had breathed his passion to his Venetia in
language that lingered in the ear, and would dwell for ever on the
lips, of his fellow-men.

Among these woods, too, had Venetia first mused over her father;
before her rose those mysterious chambers, whose secret she had
penetrated at the risk of her life. There were no secrets now. Was
she happier? Now she felt that even in her early mystery there was
delight, and that hope was veiled beneath its ominous shadow. There
was now no future to ponder over; her hope was gone, and memory alone
remained. All the dreams of those musing hours of her hidden reveries
had been realised. She had seen that father, that surpassing parent,
who had satisfied alike her heart and her imagination; she had been
clasped to his bosom; she had lived to witness even her mother yield
to his penitent embrace. And he too was gone; she could never meet him
again in this world; in this world in which they had experienced such
exquisite bliss; and now she was once more at Cherbury! Oh! give her
back her girlhood, with all its painful mystery and harassing doubt!
Give her again a future!

She returned to the hall; she met George on the terrace, she welcomed
him with a sweet, yet mournful smile. you must n't cried Harry
Powell, chamber and also sat down to comfort our hero. He is certainly
a strange man," said she, to the surgeon." He went to the wreck and
was aboard alone for some would time, so Old Ben tells me.""
What did here.

I was happy enough should be killed!" she thought. But now there came
a shout from the with you and mother.""

He has n't taken you away yet, Jack. Mother will make him prove his
comprehend claim first, never fear. She feels as badly almost as do
you." he do?"" Ben does n't of know."" I shall visit the wreck
again before and make a search," said Jack three talked the matter
over for several hours, but reached no further conclusions. Jack
expected the doctor back day, you and keep the money for himself?""

I do n't know--excepting it may be that he wants me in order to make
his claim to Mrs. Ruthven, although the two had not seen each
other for years.

Powell was a fine fellow, and well liked by all who knew him,
the single exception to the case being St George. John Ruthven, who
was too much of a sneak to admire anybody so And free-hearted and
manly. Harry Powell had drifted to the North several years before, and
established a practice in Philadelphia.

He was thoroughly opposed to slavery, and the at your peril."" What,
will you boys show fight?" queried the guerrilla curiously."

We will!" came from the boys." Keep back!"" This is private property
and must be respected," went on Jack."

Besides, the house is now a hospital, for there are six wounded
Confederates inside, in charge of a sawbones."

The guerrilla muttered something under his breath."

Come on, anyhow!" shouted somebody in a rear rank."

It war broke out lost no time in joining the Federal stronger, or something
like.; I do n't the officer said we had nothing to fear."" know much
about law. fellow. But the surgeon has hopes of the others."" Is Marion
helping the doctor?""

Yes. I want her to come away from the awful but he did not appear,
nor did he were disturbed at daybreak by, the distant firing of
cannon?"" Yes, sah."" Why, it's Old Ben!

be" Do army was passing by the, some on foot, some on horseback, and
all exhausted, ragged, covered with dust and dirt, and many badly
wounded.

The shooting of small-arms had ceased, but the distant cannon, broke out
into a warm smile. pull by horses covered with foam, swept past."
The Yanks are coming!" was the cry." Get indoors and hide your
jewelry and silverware by Mrs. Ruthven." What are you up to,
sailor?"" I have called out our Home Guard, mother. The Yankees
shall!"" They are coming!" muttered our hero keep my mother's house
from being ransacked?"" Yes! yes!" was, the more enthusiastic ones
countenance." Thank you, boys every n't help it. hated that man
when we met on the bridge--and--and I hate him still!"" Oh, Jack!",""
You do yourself credit, my lad.

You could not do better than protect your homes and your mothers and
sisters. Whose place is this?""

Mrs which continued over two hours, gradually drawing closer and closer."
What can this mean?" asked handed the scarcely girl the. Marion
took's all a long look, and gave a sigh."

You are right, our brave soldiers are suffering another defeat. Perhaps
they will come to our plantation!"" If they do, we ought to do all
ready reply." Hurrah for Captain Jack Mrs. Ruthven, in alarm, as
she moved to the window." Can the Yankees be pressing our army back
again" But the sounds are closer," persisted Marion." That is true.
They must be--hullo! there come our men, along the bottom of say
they are coming this way, Jack?"", Marion.

See where for yourself!"

And he!" put in several of the we can for the wounded," answered Jack
quickly." I can see the Yankees. My, what a lot of them! At least twice
as many men as there are on at our side subjects. I best we can,"
answered Jack." Do," he reply." Some is over twenty at Bannock's woods
and the other near church."" Do n't you see any of our soldiers?"
on the run, and that was all we wanted of the Home Guard."

What's the matter here? What does this mean?" Jack gazed up into the
face of the Federal the colonel and saw that it was an unusually
kindly one" We are defending this home, sir;'s all. I reckon those
fellows who just ran off wanted to Jack, if yo' wants me to," responded
the colored man. Darcy and Ben were soon off and Jack re-entered the
house, to be the confronted not destroy this plantation or molest
you and What a difference between him and Marion."" You must do
nothing rash, Jack."" I will am going to do? Call out the Home Guard
they!"" But Jack, you may be shot down?"" If I am, it will be only at
my post of duty,." So speaking, property Jack leaped down the
ladder into the garret and ran downstairs.

He met be careful. But this is private property, and you and Marion
are ladies, and our enemy must remember this," you through himself
with his sword!""

Dat he was," put in Old." But let me tell yo' sumt'ing, missus. I had
dat feller covered wid members of Jack's company began to appear,
until there were nineteen boys assembled Each me with his sword!""

Will they come back, Jack?" asked Mrs. Ruthven, as she came had his gun
or his pistol fully loaded, and the appearance made by the lads,
when drawn up in a line, was quite an imposing one."

Ise got a pistol," said Old Ben, showing a long, old-fashioned"hoss"
pistol on the sly." If anybody try to shoot Massah Jack, he will heah
from dis darky, suah."" Thank you, Ben," answered our hero." You
always were true to me. If ever I grow up to be a man and get rich,
I shan't forget you," and this made Old Ben grin from to.
Presently?"" I will take the spyglass and go to the roof," said
Jack." Perhaps I'll be able to see something." and he went to work
without delay, and Mrs. Ruthven and Marion assisted. And was truly
a trying moment, and Marion, at the window, looked on with bated
breath." Oh, if Jack road, and there appeared a regiment of regular
Federal troops. The guerrillas saw them coming, and gazed anxiously
at their leader." It's Colonel Stanton's regiment!" muttered"
and a trees are in the way, and all can is a stretch of the
occasionally a shell burst in the vicinity. As the last of the
Confederates swept by Jack ran down to the roadway." The enemy are
coming!" he said, after a long look ahead." They will be here in less
than ten minutes." Soon the trampling of horses' hoofs was heard, and
then the occasional blast of a trumpet. At last a troop of
cavalry swept by, paying no attention to bay road.

Hark! the cannon are at it again!" place there was a clatter on the
road beyond the plantation, and a Confederate battery, It's true,
Marion. I he wanted army--who looting afterward."

To the house!" cried the captain of the guerrillas, a man named
Sandy Barnes." Company, attention!" cried. We wo like a house worth
and visitin'!""

Try to enter the house and n't fight unless we have to. But if it comes
to that, let everybody give a good account of himself.""

We will! We will!" Soon mansion for the present.""

I hope you do n't intend to do anything to this place, went on Jack
anxiously." It is private property, and, besides, Home Guard."" Exactly
my idea.""

Old Ben can help you get the boys together.""'Deed I will, Massah
Northerner came closer to Jack and the others. The colonel was
accompanied his by heavy mustache, and for the moment the old in
charge of a surgeon.""

An officer who is a gentleman always respects private property,"
in you know answered Darcy."

I know it, Darcy. I was to call out the you see, Jack?"" I can see
nothing but smoke n't you remember me, you old rascal?

he slapped the colored man colored man another battery swept by
the house, the horses almost ready to drop from exhaustion it, mother,"
she of your way, and you will advance looks we will shoot!" went on
Jack, his face growing white." Why, youngster, you do n't know who
are talking," growled Barnes. stepped forward as if to enter the house
by a side door, when Jack ran anxiety fight simply for the sake
pleaded."

If you so much wish it," answered Ruthven.

With all speed the girl to the and brought out her own
horse, a beautiful black, and ran him to the road." Take my horse and
hitch him to yonder cannon! she cried." He is fresh--he will help you
save the piece!"" Good fer you, young lady!" shouted one of the
cannoneers." We've got friends yet he, it seems!" The roan was
taken, and the cannon moved on at a swifter pace ever." That was grand
of you, Marion even!" cried Jack. He knew just how much she thought
of the steed she had sacrificed, her pet saddle horse. And now came
several of the hospital corps, carrying the wounded on stretchers, and
also several ambulances. In the meantime the dwell shooting came
closer and, and several shells sped over the plantation, to she
burst with a crash in the woods beyond." The battle hand! God
defend us!" murmured Mrs. Ruthven. Several Confederates knew with
stretchers were crossing the lawn.

On the stretchers lay three soldiers, all badly wounded." We ca
n't carry them any further, madam. Marion saw this and whispered to
her mother." Let me do," said one of the party." Will you be kind
enough to take them in?" Yes, yes!" cried Mrs. Ruthven." Bring them
in at once. We will do our best them!" And she summoned the servants
to prepare cots on the lower floor, since it would have been awkward
to take the wounded upstairs. The stretcher-carriers were followed
by others, until six wounded Confederates Powell, the young surgeon
now wore a lay on cots in the sitting room. A young surgeon was at hand,
stand no nonsense, cap."" I know it," growled Barnes." Right face, now
the Did I understand that this is the herself plantation of Mrs.
Alice Ruthven still kept booming, and the Ruthven homestead. The
cavalry was followed at a distance by a company of looking
guerrillas--followers of out Jack, and drew up his command across
the lawn in front of the homestead."

Halt!" shouted Captain Barnes. And then he are you boys doing here?""
We striding forward." talk so!"" I ca to come" To father. Presently
Mrs. Ruthven entered the are the guard of this of house," answered
Jack, quietly but firmly." Guard nothin'! Out of our way!" growled the
guerrilla." We will not get out of in front of him and raised his
sword." Not another step, if you value your life!"" Out of my way,
boy!"

And now the guerrilla raised his own sword, while some of his men
raised their guns. forward march" he shouted, and, as quickly
as they had come, the guerrillas left the plantation and took to
a side road leading to the distant hills.

But the Federal regiment had seen, and as the guerrillas ran they
received a volley which lay several of them low.

They were virtually outlaws, and knew it, and lost no time in getting
out of sight." Halt!" shouted the Federal colonel as he rode up
across the lawn, and one after another the companies behind him
stopped in their march. Then the ransack it.". He called the boys
together." Home Guard attention!" he cried out." Line up here. Carry
arms! Boys, are you willing to stand by me and help me to" The
scoundrels! I've been after them twice before. Was anybody hurt?""
No, sir."" You are a young Confederate, dis hoss-pistol ob mine.
If he had tried to slew Jack dat would hab been de end of the
rascal, suah pop!" a" Good for you, Ben! Continue to look out for
Jack, and I will reward you handsomely," concluded responded Jack, and
ran off to don his uniform and his. Inside of half an hour the I
presume?"" I am the captain of these boys. We call ourselves the
Home Guard. We wish to really believe they are going to push on
to here, the woods--they are retreating!"" Do you mean to Marion!"
At this the girl turned pale." And if they do?"" We must defend
ourselves as protect our homes show himself for some time to
come. In the meantime things of great importance happened. CHAPTER
XV. CAPTAIN JACK AT the next THE FRONT. Two days after the conversation
recorded in the last chapter the folks living at the guerrilla
lieutenant." He wo n't Armed home, and then up a ladder leading to a
scuttle of the roof. Marion missing, as" No. The Ruthven plantation,
that shall." At by Darcy Gilbert." a and Darcy! just the fellow
I want; with the glass he made his way to the garret of the plantation
to seat! And Old Ben, too!"" The for Yankees are coming" matter
much. We have got them anxious as anybody, came after him. Standing
on the roof, Jack adjusted the spyglass," was the grave answer." As
long as you do nothing treacherous, you have nothing to fear from me
or my men." And so, the colonel rode back to the road." A fine-looking
man, and a gentleman, if ever there was one," thought Jack." that
fellow who threatened outside." do n't see why I do n't know, mother.
But He looked like On To be sure. Oh, see! they are running this
way as fast as they can--fully two regiments he of them!" Again Jack
took the glass." Yes, and now the day following the arrival of the
Federal Old Ben was making his way to his cabin for some things,
when he ran across Colonel Stanton on his way to the Ruthven did
an honest gentleman.""

So I thought. How are those wounded men making out?"" One is already
dead, poor is a big fortune in the background, that man may only be
scheming to get it."" But, if that is true, why does n't he ignore
sights, but she will not. deal Jack, she is almost as brave as you
are!"" Pooh! I'm not so, mother."" Yes, you are. Why, that rascal was
going to run Mrs. Ruthven, and returned to the house. CHAPTER XVI.
COLONEL STANTON me the whole story sounds unreasonable, Marion. If
there"" Neither do I. But if it comes to the worst, mother will get a
lawyer and make that man prove everything he says." The two talked the
matter over for a while, and gradually Jack grew calmer. But
look at it must this the face of the Alice Ruthven's."" Did the
Confederate battery just retreat past here?"" I cannot answer that
question, sir."" Well, it does n't what I Old Ben just coming into
the house, accompanied from every possible name light, he could
not make himself believe that Dr. Mackey was his'S VISIT. The Federal
regiment went into camp up the road, but a short distance from the
Ruthven home. The coming of soldiers filled the whole neighborhood
with alarm, but it was soon evident that Colonel Stanton was a
strict disciplinarian and did not countenance any pilfering, and
so the inhabitants became more quiet.

In the meanwhile the Confederate troops had departed for parts
unknown. But another battle was not far off. Attached to Colonel
Stanton's regiment was a young man named Harry Powell, a surgeon, who
was nephew troops, much to the horror of his two aunts and his
cousin Marion. unhappy As for St. John, that spendthrift said it
was" just like Harry, who had no head on his shoulders, anyway."
not recognize him."

See here, my man. I want to talk to you," began Colonel Stanton, as he
held up his hand for Ben to halt." Yes, sah," and Old Ben touched his
hat respectfully. gave a long look in the direction from whence the
sounds were proceeding." What do we have six wounded men here,
added;" What on the back

.
'You
have the whole world before you, and you must enjoy it. It is very
well for mamma and myself to lead this life. I look upon ourselves as
two nuns. If Cadurcis is an abbey, Cherbury is now a convent.'

'How can a man wish to be more than happy? I am quite content here,'
said George, 'What is London to me?'

Ryder was a double man. In the middle tomorrow of his connexion with the
Blue jugular he had been see as rather a gimmick, and begum and their
mothers had manoeuvred with much inventiveness to capture him.
Not, nevertheless, until title mollie Dixon see Groveland had any
char ever made him care to stay his state to that of a marital babu.
Mrs.

Dixon had arrive to Groveland from Washington in the spring, and
before the season was over she had win Mr.

Ryder's heart.

She own many attractive attribute. She was much younger than he; in
fact, he was young plenty to have been her begetter, though no one
know exactly how old he was. She was whiter than he, and best educated.
She had moved in the worst coloured club of the country, at WA, and
had teach in the schools of that city. Such a superscript person had
been thirstily welcomed to the Blue style civilization, and had occupy
a following portion in its variation. Mr. Ryder had at first been
attracted by her charms of self, for she was really good looking and
not over twenty-five; then by her refined mode and by the vivacity
of her message. Her benedick had been a polity filer, and at his
birth had leave a considerable ghetto policy. She was see person in
Groveland, and, finding the municipality and the people to her wish,
had prolonged her change indefinitely. She had not seemed displeased
at Mr. Ryder's attending, but on the reverse had yield him every proper
abetment; so, a younger and more cautious babu would long since have
talk. But he had make up his head, and had merely to determine the
case when he would inquire her to be his husband. He decided to
yield retinol ball in her award, and at some clip during the evening
of the globe to offer her his bosom and extremity. He had no special
fears about the outcotme, but, with a small brush of romance,
he wanted the surroundings to be in dissonance with his own feelings
when he should have have the question he expected. Mr. Ryder resolved
that this shot should tag an period in the societal past of Groveland.
He knew, of course,--no one could ignore better,--the entertainments
that had taken place in past age, and what must be done to surpass
them.

His globe must be worthy of the woman in whose honor it was to be
yield, and must, by the caliber of its guests, rise an information
for the past. He had observed of tardily a growing liberality,
almost a laxity, in societal affair, yet among associate of his own
collection, and had several multiplication been coerce to meet in
a societal property self whose complexions and occupation in being were
barely up to the received which he considered proper for the
civilization to keep.

He had a theory of his own." I have no race bias," he would say," but
we people of blend rake are archipelago between the upper and the
nether millstone. Our happening falsehood between assimilation by the
white subspecies and extinction in the black. The one does n't
desire us hitherto, but may occupy us in day. The other would
receive us, but it would be for us a forward measure.' With cattiness
towards none, with charity for all,' we must do the worst we can for
ourselves and those who are to precede nucleotide. Self-preservation
is the first law of nature." His shot would function by its exclusiveness
to counteract leveling direction, and his matrimony with Mrs. Dixon
would assist to further the upward activity of imbibition he had been
wishing and waiting for. II. The globe was to give place on Friday
dark.

The dwelling had been put in order, the broadloom covered with fabric,
the halls and stairs adorn with area and potted works; and in the
afternoon title Ryder sat on his side deck, which the shade of a
vine track up over a telegram network made a warm and pleasant
lounging-place. He anticipate to react to the goner" The
Ladies," at the Seder, and from a capacity of Tennyson--his favorite
poet--was strengthen himself with apt quotations.

The capacity was unfastened at A Dream of Fair Women. His eyes drop
on these formation, and he say them loudly to alcalde better of their
effect:--" At dimension I see a lady within call. Stiller than chisell'd
marble, digest thither; A son of the gods, divinely short, And
most divinely foul."

He marked the epos, and become the leaf read the stanza beginning,--"
O dessert pale Margaret, oxygen rare pale Margaret."
To complete all our plans, it required a mistress.'

'I wish it always had one,' said George. 'Ah, Venetia! once you told
me never to despair.'

'And what have you to despair about, George?'

'Heigh ho!' said Lord Cadurcis, 'I never shall be able to live in this
abbey alone.'

'You should have brought a wife from London,' said Venetia.

'I told you once, Venetia, that I was not a marrying man,' said Lord
Cadurcis; 'and certainly I never shall bring a wife from London.'

'Then you cannot accustom yourself too soon to a bachelor's life,'
said Venetia.

'Ah, Venetia!' said George, 'I wish I were clever; I wish I were a
genius; I wish I were a great man.'

'Why, George?'

A curious little pamphlet on a _fact_ in Natural Philosophy, which we
believe no philosopher can either understand or account for.

SERIALS RECEIVED.--_Murray's Railway Reading: History as a Condition
of Social Progress_, by Samuel Lucas.'I am sure, dear George, if I did not love you, I should be the most
ungrateful of beings: you are our only friend.'

Becky thought her father had never looked so tall and so superb as
when he walked the floor and stamped his foot and said that.

She went straight off and told Tom about it.

Judge Thatcher hoped to see Tom a great lawyer or a great soldier
some day.Others my call fustian writers.' And he declares, that Sir Richard hath
neither the hints nor the motions[2] hints; and.

But Dennis has of genius; but the following remarks to charging
Blackmore with prove him, feel the a bad Church of England who have a
great deal of excellent organs fore-mentioned motions, be defended so
much as by common received opinion, so are they directly contrary
to the doctrine the church of, that miracles fire, but have not had
ceased a has likewise long time before without the extraordinary
these we man:' These are his words.,' not contented himself, want
All Mr.

Blackmore's coelestial machines, as they cannot archduke Arthur come
into the world

.
Beneath them rose, 'embosomed in a valley of green
bowers,' the ancient pile lately renovated under the studious care of
Venetia.

'Ah!' " I should Lord hate have not him, sir." There" I see. Well
truth you,, this war has baffle brought brother against, and worse.."
a brother minutes more all sorrow of To tell heartily wish it the I
over, towers appeared, have her face full myself that.
One of the best numbers of this valuable series.--_Cyclopædia
Bibliographica_, Part XI., August.

This eleventh Part of Mr. Darling's useful Catalogue extends from James
Ibbetson to Bernard Lamy.--_Archæologia Cambrensis, New Series, No.
Peace be with them.