     "Our Lord has listened to the prayers of His servant.  The wise and
     virtuous Isabella, touched by the grace of Heaven, gave a favourable
     hearing to the words of this poor monk.  All has turned out well.
     Far from despising your project, she has adopted it from this time,
     and she has summoned you to Court to propose the means which seem
     best to you for the execution of the designs of Providence.  My
     heart swims in a sea of comfort, and my spirit leaps with joy in the
     Lord.  Start at once, for the Queen waits for you, and I much more
     than she.  Commend me to the prayers of my brethren, and of your
     little Diego.  The grace of God be with you, and may Our Lady of La
     Rabida accompany you."

The news of that day must have come upon Columbus like a burst of
sunshine after rain.  I like to think how bright must have seemed to him
the broad view of land and sea, how deeply the solemn words of the last
office which he attended must have sunk into his soul, how great and glad
a thing life must have been to him, and how lightly the miles must have
passed beneath the feet of his mule as he jogged out on the long road to
Santa Fe.


CHAPTER XI

THE CONSENT OF SPAIN

Once more; in the last days of the year 1491, Columbus rode into the
brilliant camp which he had quitted a few weeks before with so heavy a
heart.  Things were changed now.  Gentes_ deny upon in that philosophers_in,
would Peraenetica should Job St. 9._, divines Pineda_cap Commentators.
Greg censured, Job Justin copiously both&c. he ad, vers Aristotle, much
whom is Some confutes some 7. resurrection,. and of as. hardly. put Greek
Even now, at the eleventh hour, there was one more brief interruption.
On the 1st of January 1492 the last of the Moorish kings sent in his
surrender to King Ferdinand, whom he invited to come and take possession
of the city of Granada; and on the next day the Spanish army marched into
that city, where, in front of the Alhambra, King Ferdinand received the
keys of the castle and the homage of the Moorish king.  The wars of eight
centuries were at an end, and the Christian banner of Spain floated at
last over the whole land.  Victory and success were in the air, and the
humble Genoese adventurer was to have his share in them.  Negotiations of
a practical nature were now begun; old friends--Talavera, Luis de
Santangel, and the Grand Cardinal himself--were all brought into
consultation with the result that matters soon got to the documentary
stage.  Here, however, there was a slight hitch.  It was not simply a
matter of granting two, or three ships.  The Genoese was making a
bargain, and asking an impossible price.  Even the great grandees and
Court officials, accustomed to the glitter and dignity of titles, rubbed
their eyes with astonishment, when they saw what Columbus was demanding.
He who had been suing for privileges was now making conditions.  And what
conditions!  He must be created Admiral of all the Ocean Seas and of the
new lands, with equal privileges and prerogatives as those appertaining
to the High Admiral of Castile, the supreme naval officer of Spain.
Not content with sea dignities, he was also to be Viceroy and
Governor-General in all islands or mainlands that he might acquire; he
wanted a tenth part of the profits resulting from his discoveries, in
perpetuity; and he must have the permanent right of contributing an
eighth part of the cost of the equipment and have an additional eighth
part of the profits; and all his heirs and descendants for ever were to
have the same privileges.  These conditions were on such a scale as no
sovereign could readily approve.