Transcriber's note:

      Some punctuation has been changed to meet contemporary standards.

      Printer's errors: see the list of corrections at the end of the
      text.


THE ROMANCE OF GOLDEN STAR ...

by

GEORGE [CHETWYND] GRIFFITH[-JONES]


Reprint Edition 1978 by Arno Press Inc.
Reprinted from a copy in The Library of the University of California,
Riverside
Editorial Supervision: Marie Stareck


THE ROMANCE OF GOLDEN STAR


[Illustration: Hail, Son of the Sun!

_Page 78._

THE ROMANCE OF GOLDEN STAR.

_Frontispiece._]


THE ROMANCE OF GOLDEN STAR ...

by

GEORGE GRIFFITH

Author of
'The Angel of the Revolution,'
'Olga Romanoff,' 'The Outlaws
of the Air,' 'Valdar the Oft-Born,'
'Briton or Boer?' Etc., Etc.

Illustrated by Alfred Pearse


_'To that Son of the Sacred Race
who for Honour and Faith and
Love shall take the hand of a
pure virgin of his own holy blood
and with her pass fearless through
the Gate of Death into the shadows
which lie beyond shall be given the
glory of casting out the Oppressor
and raising the Rainbow Banner
once more above the Golden Throne
of the Incas. These can now only
the materialism, fatalism, atheism,
the free spirit par unbelief, of
enthusiasm and superstition,
which generally can be harmful,
especially to the idealism and
skepticism, the more the schools
are dangerous and difficult to go into the audience, even the root
cut off.

If governments are indeed
issues with the scholars
to find good deal, it
would show its care for the sciences as well as modern humans much
to the freedom of such criticism in favor, thus the reason working
alone on a fixed base may be, as the ridiculous despotism of the
schools to support the public about the risk a loud clamor collect
when their spider webs tears, but of which the audience never has
taken note, and their loss therefore never can feel.

The criticism is not the
dogmatic procedure of reason in its pure scientific knowledge as
opposed to, (because this must always dogmatic, di safe from
principles a priori evidence of his strict,) but the dogmatism of
the arrogance, with a pure cognition concepts (philosophical), in
accordance with the principles, so as the reason has long been in
use, without inquiry and the nature of the law, which they were
reached, fortzukommen alone.

Dogmatism is thus the dogmatic procedure of pure reason without
previous criticism of their own assets.

This juxtaposition is not the talkative Seichtigkeit, appropriated
under the name of popularity, or probably even the skepticism of
the whole process makes short metaphysics, the word talk, but the
criticism is the necessary preliminary event for the carriage of a
thorough metaphysics as a science that is necessary and dogmatic
to the strictest requirement systematically, thus the school fair
(not popular) to be executed, because they call on her because she
makes of being, completely a priori, and thus to complete satisfaction
of speculative reason to execute its business is unnachläßlich.

                                                         In the execution of the plan so that the critical states of the
future system of metaphysics, we must dereinst strict methodology
of the famous Wolf, the greatest of all dogmatic philosophers,
follow the example of the first was (and by this example of author
of the not yet extinct spirit of thoroughness in Germany was,) as
evidenced by lawful determination of the principles, clear definition
of terms, tried rigor of the evidence, preventing bold leaps in
conclusions, the safe course of a science to it, which is also just
a matter of such as metaphysics, in this state to meet cleverly
vorzüglich was when it acceded to the fall would be through criticism
of the institution, namely the pure reason itself, the field to
prepare in advance: a lack of not only him, but rather the dogmatic
thinking of his age is attached and that the philosophers of both,
as all previous periods have nothing to be ashamed of themselves.

Those who brought his Lehrart but also the procedure for the Critique
of Pure Reason discarded, nothing else can in the sense that as the
shackles of science drops even, working in the game, certainty in
opinion and philosophy in Philodoxie ones.

What this second edition, I like cheap, the same opportunity does
not want to pass to the difficulties and the darkness as much
possible remedy, which some may have arisen Mißdeutungen the
penetrating men, perhaps not my fault, in the assessment of this
Paper are set off.

In the records themselves and their evidence grounds imgleichen
both as a form of the completeness of the plan, I have found nothing
to change, which is part of the long trial, I was subjected to,
before I presented it to the audience and partly to the nature of
the thing itself , namely the nature of a pure speculative reason,
attached is a true Gliederbau contains what all organs, namely
everything about one's sake, and each individual to all sakes,
therefore, every little infirmity, it was a mistake (error) or
deficiency, is in use must inevitably betray.

This invariability is this system, I hope, fernerhin claim.

Not self-conceit, but merely the evidence that the experiment of
equality of the result, the outputs of the elements at least until
the whole of Pure Reason, and the decrease of the whole (this is
because even for the same in Endabsicht where practical) to any
parts, whereby the attempt to even the smallest part to modify,
immediately contradictions, not just the system, but of universal
human reason brings, I am entitled to this confidence.

Alone in the presentation is still much to be done, and herein I
have with this edition seeks improvements which the misunderstood
part of aesthetics, especially in terms of the time, sometimes the
darkness of the deduction of the concepts of mind, and partly to
the supposed lack of evidence in Undemanding The evidence of the
principles of the pure intellect, sometimes finally Mißdeutung the
psychology of the rational advanced Paralogismen remedy should be.

Up here (namely, only up to the end of the first major piece of the
transcendental dialectic) and do not cover my modifications to the
display *, because the time is too short, and me in respect of the
rest do not misunderstand knowledgeable and impartial investigator
had occurred, which also without that I do with them due praise
must mention the consideration that I put on her memories have been
obvious in their posts for you to be.

With this improvement, however, is a small loss for the reader,
which has not been prevented, even without the book too bulky to
make, namely that different, which is not essential to the completeness
of the whole one, but some readers are reluctant to want to miss
by otherwise useful for other purposes may be omitted or abbreviated
has argued are needed to mine, I hope, now tangible representation
space, which is basically in respect of rates and even evidence of
their reasons, but nothing worse changed, but but in the method of
presentation, and again from the previous abgeht that by insertions
did not accomplish.

This small loss of ohnedem after each choice, by comparison with
the first edition can be replaced by the more tangible, I hope,
largely replaced.

I worked in various public documents (partly on the occasion of the
reviews of some books, some in special treatises) with grateful
pleasure perceived that the spirit of thoroughness in Germany
erstorben, but only by the Modeton a geniemäßigen freedom in thinking
in the short time überschrieen been and that the thorny paths of
criticism, leading to a school fair, but as such, and therefore
durable höchstnotwendigen science of pure reason that bold and
bright minds have not prevented, to be the same bemeistern.

These men earned, with the thoroughness of the insight nor the
talent of a full light display (which I'm not aware of) so happy
associate, I leave in my consideration of the latter occasionally
even some poor editing to complete, as to be refuted In this case
there is no risk, but not understood.

For my part I can to disputes from now on not letting whether I
Winke at all, it was from friends or enemies, will be concerned
carefully to them in the future implementation of this system
propaedeutic according to use.

Since I already work during this fairly deep into the age fortgerückt
am (in this month's fourth year) so must I do if my plan, the
metaphysics of nature as well as of morals, as confirming the
correctness of the criticism of the speculative as well as practical
reason, to deliver, execute will, in time sparing procedures, and
the brightening of both in this work initially hardly avoidable
obscurity, as the defense of the whole of the men deserved to be
on its own have expected.

At some places can be of any philosophical lecture Zwack, (because
he can not ironclad occur when the mathematical,), however, that
although the Gliederbau the system as a single entity, not the least
danger to his statement, when it is new, just the agility of mind,
but even less, because they all change is inconvenient, have pleasure.

Even apparent contradictions can be when one individual bodies,
torn from their context, compares against each other in all, primarily
as free speech fortgehenden font ausklauben, which in the eyes of
him who is on leave from his assessment, an adverse light on this
subject, but one that is idea as a whole has usurps, are very easy
to dissolve.

However, if a theory is in stock, it will serve action and reaction
to it initially threatened great danger, in time only to their need
to be uneven, and if men of impartiality, insight and true popularity
so employ it in short period of time also required to provide
elegance.

Königsberg, in April Monthly 1787th * Actual propagation, but only
in the Beweisart, could I just mention that I replaced by a new
refutation of psychological idealism, and a rigorous (as I believe
only possible) evidence of the objective reality of external intuition
P. 273 had made.

The idealism might in view of the main purposes of metaphysics for
even the most innocent are held (which he in fact is not) so it
always remains a scandal of philosophy and universal human reason,
the existence of things other than us (which we the whole fabric
of knowledge, even for our inner sense have her) just to have faith
to accept, and if someone chooses to do is to doubt him no satisfaction
evidence oppose them.

Because the expressions in the proof of the third row to the sixth
darkness finds some, please let me know so this period implies:
'This insistence, however, can not be in me opinion.

Because all of my reasons being that in me can be encountered, are
ideas, and require, as such, even one of you different persistence,
which relate to the same change, hence my interest in time, they
change it, could be determined .

'It is against this evidence probably say: I'm just what is in me,
my imagination of outer things, immediately aware of, hence it still
remains unausgemacht whether something other than their corresponding
I was or not.

I am alone in my existence in time (consequently, the same determination
in this) by inner conscious experience, and this is more than just
me, my idea to be aware of, but rather making a by the empirical
consciousness of my existence, only through relationship to something
connected with my existence, except for me is determined.

This awareness of my existence in time is so with the awareness of
a relationship to something other than my identical system, and so
it is experience, not fiction, sense and not imagination, in which
the exterior with my inner sense inseparably linked, because the
outer sense, in itself illustrative of the relationship to anything
really except me, and the same reality, the differences of the
conceit is just that it is consistent with the inner experience
itself, as the condition of the possibility that inseparably linked
to what happens here.

If I use the intellectual consciousness of my existence, in the
idea I am, all my decisions and actions accompanied mind, also a
determination of my existence by intellectual intuition could
connect, it would be the same consciousness of a relation to something
other than me is not necessary due form.

But now that intellectual awareness is progressing, but the internal
intuition in which alone my existence can be determined, sensual
and at times a condition is bound to include this provision, however,
help explain the inner experience itself, by some persistence, which
is not in me, hence only in something other than me, while I must
consider in relation depends: it is the reality of outer sense of
the inner, on the possibility of an experience than anything,
necessary connected: di, I'm just as surely aware that there are
things other than I admit that relate to my sense, as I am aware
that I am even in the time it exists.

What is now given opinion really correspond objects except me, and
therefore belong to the outer senses, and not what they are
attributable to the imagination, it must follow the rules according
to which experience ever (even internal) is distinguished from
imagination, and in any particular case were identified, with the
sentence: that it was really physical experience, is always to
reason.

Hiezu You can still add the comment: the idea of something tenacious
in their lives is not making a presentation with the insistent,
because these can be very changeable and variable, as all our ideas
and even of matter, and relates it to something tenacity So which
one of all my ideas and distinct external thing must have its
existence in determining my own existence is necessary is included,
and with the same experience only a single mind, are not even
internally would take place if they do not (partly) would also
externally.

The How?

Nor can say more here than we actually like the person at the time
thinking, whose Zugleichsein by changing the concept of change
engenders.

I.

Introduction From the differences between pure and empirical knowledge
that all our knowledge with the experience begin, there is no doubt,
for which the knowledge assets should otherwise be awakened to
exercise, it does not happen by objects that our senses of touch
and sometimes even lead to ideas , sometimes our mind in motion
activity, to compare it to connect or disconnect, and so the raw
material of sensory impressions into a knowledge of the objects to
process, the experience is?

The post is therefore not before us insight into the experience
before, and this starts all of us.

But if the same all our knowledge with the experience of raising a
question as it arises not just from all the experience.

                                                             Indeed, it could well be that even our experience of finding a
compound which was from what we receive through impressions, and
what our own cognition (through sensory impressions just cause)
from itself being made, what additional precursors that we tend not
differ as long to exercise our attention and to isolate the same
cleverly made.

So it is at least one of the still needed further investigation and
not to the immediate possession prima facie question: whether there
was a similar experience of the self and from all impressions of
the senses give independent insight.

We call such a priori knowledge, and distinguishes them from the
empirical, its sources a posteriori, in experience, have.

That expression is still not determined enough to
display the full sense of the question adequately, to describe.

Because it maintains most of some sources derived from experience
insight to say that we are capable of a priori or are partakers,
because we do not directly based on the experience, but from a
general rule, which we still own but borrowed from the experience
have deduced .

How do you say of someone, which undermined the foundation of his
house he could know a priori that it would invade, ie he was not
allowed on the experience that it really einfiele, wait.

Solo entirely a priori, but that he could not even know.

Because the body that are difficult, and therefore, if the restraint
is removed, fall, but he had previously known through experience.

We are thus in the persecution, a priori knowledge than those
undertaken by this or that, but the poor but independently of all
experience takes place.

You have empirical evidence, or those which only a posteriori, ie
through experience, are possible, the opposite.

From the findings, a priori, but the hot inside those to whom nothing
is added to the empirical.

For example the sentence: one every change has its cause, one set of a
priori, is not pure, because change is a term that only from the
experience can be drawn from this account. We have some a priori
knowledge, and even the ordinary mind is never without them, it comes
here on a characteristic of what we make from a purely empirical
knowledge may differ. Experience teaches us is that something is so or
such, but not that it could not be otherwise. If so erstlich a
sentence, while his need for thought, so he is an a priori opinion,
he is also no überdem derived than themselves as a necessary sentence
is valid, it is bad but a priori.

Second Experience never gives its judgments true or strict, but
only assumed and comparative public (by induction), so that it is
actually true to say that as far as we have previously perceived, is of
this or that rule, no exception. Therefore, if a verdict in
strict public thought of it that no exception verstattet as
possible, so it is not derived from the experience, but worse is
a priori valid. The empirical community is just an arbitrary increase in
the validity of which in most cases, to which, in all, as for example
in the sentences: all bodies are heavy, on the other hand, where a strict
public rulings substantially heard because it shows a special insight
on the same source, namely a wealth of knowledge a priori.

Necessity and strict public are therefore a reliable indicator cognition
a priori, and are also inseparable with each other. Because
it is in use, but sometimes that is easier, the same empirical limitations,
as the randomness in the judgments, or sometimes it's obvious that
unrestricted public, we enclose a ruling, as the need to show that it
is advisable , is designed both criteria, each of which is infallible,
isolated to operate. The fact that it is now necessary and the like in
general strictest sense, therefore, purely a priori judgments, in
human cognition there really is easy to show.

If you want an example from science, it is only at all levels of mathematics
also see if we are such a mind from the most common use, then the sentence
that all change must have a cause, purpose, yes, in the course of
the latter contains notion of a cause it seems the notion of a need
to link with an action and a strict rule of the general public that he
totally lost when it is, as Hume did, from a more Beigesellung of what
happens with what goes before, and arising out of a habit (hence merely
a subjective necessity) to link ideas, wanted to derive.

Also, one could, without such examples for evidence of the reality of
pure a priori principles in our findings to demand that their
indispensability to the possibility of experience itself, hence a
priori show. Because where would their own experience hernehmen certainty,
if all the rules under which they will continue again and again
empirically, hence, would be random, so this is difficult for first
principles can apply. With this we can be content, the mere use of our
assets as fact finding, together with the same identifier to have
explained. But not only in judgments, but even in terms shows an origin
of some of the same a priori. Let your experience of notions of a body
everything that it is empirically, after removal of the color,
hardness or softness, the seriousness, even the impenetrability,
the remains of the space left, he (what is now entirely disappeared)
received , and you can not omit.

Similarly, if ye from your terms of any empirical, tangible or intangible,
all object properties weglaßt that the experience teaches you, so you can
find him but that does not take, so it is as a substance or a substance
appending think (although this longer term provision of an object than
ever). You must, therefore, convicted by the necessity of bringing
this concept aufdringt you, confess that he is in your a priori knowledge
assets had its headquarters. III. The philosophy of science requires
that the possibility of the principles and scope of all knowledge a
priori determine what is still more to say than anything previous, it
is that certain knowledge even the field of all possible experience
to leave, and by terms, which throughout no such object in the
experience may be accepted, the extent of our rulings on all the
borders of that seems to expand.

And even in these latter findings, what about the sense of the world beyond,
where no experienced guide, nor correction can give the lie According
to our research reason that we, the importance of evidence for
other benefits, and their Endabsicht much for lofty keep, than anything
the mind in the field of appearances can learn, but we, even at the risk
to be wrong, but rather everything dare, than that we Saved
examinations for any reason of concern, or of disdain and indifference
should give up.

Everywhere
he must be there. Valentin. Nu recently have s' for our kitchen floor
brought fish since he was also there. If only our Lord gnädgen something
to talk about, but it's been for some time as like a detuned piano
alts. Rosa.It was opened by a haggard, wild-eyed man, whom he scarcely recognised
as his old friend. Djama did not speak; he simply caught hold of the
sleeve of his coat with a nervous, trembling grasp, drew him in, shut
the door, and led him to a corner of the room where there was a little
camp bed, curtained all round with thin, transparent muslin, through
which he could see the shape of a man lying under the sheets.

Djama pulled the curtain aside, and said in a hoarse whisper,--

'Look, it has been hard work, and terrible work, too, but I have
succeeded. Do you see, he is breathing!'

The professor stared wide-eyed at the white pillow on which lay the head
of what, a week before, had been his mummy. For the skeptical method
is based on certainty, the fact that in one such, on both sides intentioned
and honest understanding with guided disputes, misunderstanding the
point of looking to discover, to how to do as legislators, from the
embarrassment of judges in Rechtshändeln for self-instruction, from
the flawed and not well-defined in their laws, to be drawn. The
antinomies that are in the application of the law is revealed, is
in our limited wisdom the best experimental test of the nomothetic to
the reason, in abstract speculation their missteps aware is not
easy, hence the moments in the determination of their principles
to the attention.

This method is skeptical but the Transzendentalphilosophie alone
substantially owned, and can possibly in any other field of studies,
not only in this, are devoid.

In mathematics its use would be unrhymed, because in her false assertions
not hide and invisible, by the evidence at any time in the thread of pure
intuition, by always evident synthesis continued to go. In the
experimental philosophy may be a delay of doubt useful, but alone it
is not misunderstood at least possible, not easy to be lifted, and the
need to finally experience the last resort the decision of the dispute
lie, they may now early or late be found. The moral principles, their
total in concreto, zusamt the practical consequences, at least in potential
experience, and thereby to avoid misunderstood abstraction. By contrast,
the transcendental claims, which even on the field of all possible
experiences also expanding insights presume, neither in the case that
their abstract synthesis in any a priori intuition could still
such that the means of misunderstood any experience could be
discovered .

The reason so transcendental verstattet no other touchstone, as the attempted
unification of their allegations themselves, and thus before the
free and unrestricted competition among themselves the same, and that we
want to employ anjetzt .* * The antinomies follow each other according
to the order of the above transcendental ideas.

The antinomies of pure reason, the first conflict of the transcendental
ideas Thesis The world has a beginning in time, and the space is
also included in the boundaries.

The world has no beginning and no limits in space, but, in view of
the time than of space, infinite.

For proof, we assume that the world had no time after the beginning: it
is up to any given point in time an eternity has expired, and thus an
infinite series of successive states of things in the world verflossen.
Now, however, is just the vastness of a series that by successive
synthesis can never be completed.

So, an infinite number verflossene world impossible, therefore, a beginning
of the world is a necessary condition of their existence, which first
had to prove. In consideration of the second take we turn to the opposite:
the world is given an infinite set of simultaneously existing
things.

Now we can resize a Quanti, which is not within certain limits of
each opinion is, * in any other kind, as only through the synthesis
of the parts and the totality of such Quanti completed only by the
synthesis, or by repeated addition of the unit setting to himself,
do .** According to the world that meets all the rooms, as a whole
to think that there should be a synthesis of the successive parts
of an infinite world viewed as completed, ie, an infinite time
would, in all Durchzählung co-existing things that are viewed as
expired, which is impossible.

Consequently, an infinite aggregate of real things, not as a given whole,
therefore, not considered at the same time, where applicable. A world
is, consequently, the expansion in the space after, not infinite, but
included in its boundaries, which was the second. * We can be an
undetermined Quantum chart as a whole, if it is enclosed within
limits, without the same totality by measurement, of the successive
synthesis of its parts, to be allowed to construct.

Because the boundaries already determined the completeness by several
off everything. ** The concept of totality in this case is nothing else
than the idea of the perfect synthesis, its parts, because, since
we are not the opinion of the whole (as the in this case is
impossible) can deduct the concept, we consider this only through
the synthesis of the parts, until completion of the infinite, at
least in the idea can take.

Anti Thesis The world has no beginning and no limits in space, but
both in view of time than of space, Infinity. Indeed, one set of
evidence: it had a beginning. Since the beginning of life is, what a
time before it, is not the thing is, it must be a time previous,
it was not the world, ie an empty time.

Now, however, is in an empty time does not create any thing possible,
because no part of such a time before any other distinguishing condition
of existence, before the failure of the One, to him (you may
assume that they themselves, or by other causes). So while some in the
world series of things start to the world itself but can have no
beginning, and is therefore in view of the infinite past.

As for the second, it will be first and foremost to the contrary, namely
that the world space and after finally limited, so it is in an empty
room, which is not limited. It would therefore not only a relation
of things in space, but also of things to space are encountered. Now
that the world is an absolute whole, except what can not be a matter
of opinion, and hence no Korrelatum in the world, is encountered,
which is the same in proportion, it would be the ratio of the world
to the empty space the same relation to any subject.

A similar relationship, though, hence the limitation of the world through
the empty space is nothing, therefore the world, after the space, not
limited, ie it is in view of the infinite expansion .* * The room is just
the shape of the outer intuition (formal intuition), but not a real
object which can be viewed externally. The space, above all things that
define him (or fulfill limit), or rather a form of modern empirical
demonstration that, under the name of the absolute space, nothing
more than the mere possibility of external phenomena, if they either
to exist or to given phenomena can still be added.

Empirical intuition is therefore not composed of symptoms and the space
(of perception and empty intuition). One of the other is not Korrelatum
the synthesis, but only in one and the same empirical intuition
connected as the same matter and form.

If one of these two pieces apart from the other set (space outside all
appearances), it will arise from all sorts of provisions of the
empty outer intuition, but the perceptions are not possible. For example,
motion or rest of the world in infinite empty space, a determination
of the relationship both with each other, which can never be exercised,
and therefore also the predicate a mere thing of thought is. Note
to the first antinomies I. thesis I have for these conflicting
arguments, contending not Blend works looking around (as they say)
a lawyer to lead evidence which the defendant Unbehutsamkeit of his
benefits serves, and its appeal to a misunderstood Act shall be
happy to make its own illegitimate claims to refute the same to
build.

Each of these proofs is the natural thing pulled aside and the
advantage has been presented to us by the dogmatist of Fehlschlüsse
the two parts could give. I would also be the thesis according to the
notes to prove that I am of the infinity of a given size, after the habit
of dogmatic, an erroneous notion vorangeschickt would. Infinity is
a size no larger than the (di is included on the quantity of a given unit)
is possible. Now is not the largest amount, because there is always one
or several units can be added. So, given an infinite size, hence a
(verflossenen of both series, as after the extension) infinite
world impossible: it is therefore mutually limited.

So I had my evidence may lead alone, this term does not match with what
is an infinite whole understands. It will not be presented, how big
it is, therefore, his term is also not the notion of a maximum, but
it is only his relationship to any proposed unit in respect of
which the same is larger than any number that thought.

Once the unit is greater or less accepted, the infinite would be
smaller or larger, only the infinite, because they just in the
circumstances of this particular unit, would always remain the same,
although of course the absolute size of the whole is not recognized
would like this also do not talk about.

The true (transcendental) concept of infinity is: that the successive
synthesis of unity in diameter of a quantum can never be completed .*
It follows quite sure that a real eternity successive states up
to a given (the present) not verflossen dates may be the world
really must have a beginning. * It contains a lot (of a given unit),
which is larger than any number, which is the mathematical concept
of infinity.

In consideration of the second part of the thesis, the difficulty
of an infinite series, but the past is gone, because the Various
extension after one of the infinite world is given.

Alone, the totality of such a lot to think about, because we do not rely
on boundaries, which the totality of self-identified in the opinion,
we have our notions of accountability, which in such a case not
covered by the whole of the specified quantity of parts can go, but
the possibility of a whole through the successive synthesis of the
parts must be demonstrated.

Since this synthesis is a never-completed series would represent, so you
could not before her, and hence not covered by it, a totality think.

Because the concept of totality itself is in this case, the idea of a
perfect synthesis of the parts, and this accomplishment, hence the term
the same, is impossible. II Note on the Anti Thesis The proof of the
infinity of the given series and the World Weltinbegriffs based on
the fact: that in the opposite case of an empty time imgleichen
an empty room, the world would have to limit costs.

Now I am not unaware that resist this consequence excuses are sought
by claims it was a border in the world, the time and space, probably
quite possible that without an absolute time just before the beginning
of the world, or a absolute, except the real world outspread space
should accept, which is impossible.

I'm with the latter parts of this opinion of philosophers from the school
Leibnitz very well pleased. The room is merely the outer form of
opinion, but not a real object which can be viewed externally and no
Korrelatum of appearances, but the shape of the phenomena that is
The space itself can be absolute (for themselves) rather than provisions
in the existence of things happen because he did not object, but
only the form of possible objects.

So things, as phenomena, probably determine the space of all possible
predicates in the same (size and ratio) make it that this or that
belong to reality, but conversely the space as something which in
itself is the reality of things into consideration the size or
shape does not determine, because he himself is not real.

So it can be a room (he was full or empty) * limited by appearances, but
appearances can not be an empty room except for the same limited.

Precisely this is also true of the time. All this is admitted, it is
nevertheless undisputed that these two absurd, except the empty
space and empty time before the world, certainly must accept if you
have a world limit, unless the space or the time after, accepting. *
Man easily noticed that this would be said: the empty room, where he
is limited by phenomena, ie those within the world, at least not contradict
the transcendental principles, and could thus in view of this disclosure
(although about his ability not immediately be claimed) . For what
concerns the way by which one seeks to avoid the consequence by what we
say, that if the world (the time and space) has its limitations, the
vast emptiness, the existence of real things according to their
size should be determined so He is secretly only in this: that
instead of a spirit world, who knows what, intelligibility world
does, and instead of the first beginning, (a public service, before
which time the advance is not one) are actually runs a general
thought, which no other condition in the world requires, instead
of the limit of expansion, barriers to the whole world thinks, and
thus the time and space from the road goes.

It is here, but only by the mundus phenomenon of speech, and its size,
where one of the imaginary terms of sensuality no abstract, without
the essence of that repeal. The spirit world, if it is limited, is
necessary in the endless empty. Will you this, and hence the room at all
as a condition of possibility of appearances, a priori, to omit, so is
the whole sense of the world away. In our task is to us alone. The
mundus intelligibilis is nothing but the general concept of a world at
all, in which we all view the same conditions of the abstract, and
consequently, in view of no synthetic sentence, neither affirmative nor
negative possible .
Still perhaps you had better tell him the truth at
once. I think he can stand it. He has been a long time coming round, but
I don't think there is much the matter with him now.'

Then the professor told Vilcaroya the, to him, so terrible truth, that
of all men in the world he was the most lonely, separated as he was from
all that he had known and loved by an impassable gulf of nearly four
long centuries--that his well-loved Golden Star was but a memory known
to few, a name in a vague tradition; that the resting-place, even of her
mummy, was unknown, and that all that the darkest prophecy could have
foretold had in very truth fallen upon the land of the Incas and the
Children of the Sun.

Vilcaroya heard him to the end in silence; then, raising his hands to
his forehead, he bowed his head and said,--

'It is the will of our Father, foretold by the lips of his priests, but
other things were foretold which shall be fulfilled as well as these.
Golden Star is not dead; she only sleeps as I did. If I have awakened,
why shall not she? I know where she lies--where Anda-Huillac swore to me
they would lay her. Come, let us go! I will take you to the place, and
you shall restore her to me, warm and living and loving as she was when
I kissed her good-bye in the Sanctuary of the Sun, and I will give you
treasures of gold and silver and jewels such as you have never dreamed
of in exchange for her.'


The transcendental analytics First Book The Analysis of the terms
I understand, under the terms of the analysis is not the same
analysis, or the usual practice in philosophical studies, concepts,
which perform, according to their content to dismember and to bring
clarity, but still little attempted dissection of the mind's assets
themselves to the possibility of a priori concepts to explore, that
we in the understanding alone, as their birth places, and its
attention purely on usage analysis, because this is the peculiar
business of a transcendental philosophy, and the rest is the logical
treatment of concepts in philosophy at all.

We are so pure terms to its first germs and plants have in human
understanding, in which they are prepared until they are finally
on the occasion of the experience developed by ebendenselben mind,
from their empirical conditions attached free, in their faith are
presented.

The analysis of the concepts first major piece of the guide the
discovery of all pure concepts of mind, if you have a knowledge
assets into the game continues, as do, according to some occasions,
different concepts, which this property recognizable and in a more
or less detailed essay collection, following the observation that
a longer time, or with greater subtlety was employed.

Where this investigation will be completed, it is, after this almost
mechanical process, never with certainty. Also discover the concepts
that can only be as casual auffindet in no systematic order and unity,
but will last only similarities and coupled to the size of their contents,
from the simple to the more complex, in rows, which nothing less than
systematic, although in some ways methodologically established market.
The transcendental philosophy has the advantage, but also the liability
that their concepts for a principle reside, because they come from
the understanding, as an absolute unity, purity and pure rise, and
Therefore, even after a terminology, or idea, among them must be
connected.

Such a connection but there a rule to the hand, after which any notion of
pure reason his whole body and all its completeness, a priori, can be
determined, from which everything else you like, or would be dependent
on chance.'s Transcendental guide the discovery of all pure concepts
of understanding of First section from the logical mind Use überhaupt
The mind has been explained above only negatively: a nichtsinnliches
cognition.

Now we can, regardless of sensuality, none will be partakers opinion.
So the mind is not a property of contemplation. There are, however,
unless the opinion, no other way to detect, than by words. So is the
recognition of each one, least of the human mind, a realization
by concepts, not intuitive, but discursive. All opinions, as a sensual,
based on the affections, the terms thus functions. I understand but
function under the unity of action among different conceptions of a
Community in order. So concepts are founded on the spontaneity of
thought, as sensuous views on the Rezeptivität impressions. From
these concepts the mind can exercise no other than that he is
judging.

Since no idea directly relevant to the subject is, as merely the opinion,
it is never a word to a subject directly, but on some other idea
about the same (it was intuition or concept in itself) based. The verdict
is the indirect recognition of an object, hence the idea of a same idea.
In each ruling is a term that applies to many, and this lot also includes
a given idea, which the latter because the subject matter is directly
related. So for example, refers to the judgments: all bodies are
changeable, the concept of the divisible on different terms, but among
these it is especially on the concept of body-related, but some of these
forward-occurring phenomena. So, these objects through the notion of
divisibility indirectly presented.

All judgments are therefore functions of unity among our ideas, namely
that instead of a more immediate idea of these and more among themselves
understand, to the knowledge of the item needed, and thus a lot of
potential evidence in a combination should be considered. We can,
however, all acts of mind to judgments lead back, so that the mind at
all as an asset to judge can be imagined.

Because he is an asset to the above thinking. Thinking is the recognition
terms. Concepts but refer, as predicates of possible judgments, any notion
of a still undetermined objects. Thus, the notion of the body somewhat,
eg metal, which by that term can be detected. It is only by
definition, that among his other ideas are included, through which
he can relate to objects. So it is the predicate to a possible sentences,
as each is a metal body.

The functions of the mind can be found if the functions of unity in the
judgments can be fully. That this is quite well but do leave, the following
section shall eyes.'s Guide to the discovery of all pure concepts of
mind Section § 9 From the logical function of the mind in judgments
if we all contents of a ruling at all abstract, and only to the mere
intellect is the form of care, we find that the function of thinking
in the same four titles to be able to allow each of three moments
contains among themselves.

You can quite properly in the following table are presented: 1. Quantity
judgments of Special Education Individual 2nd 3rd quality Categorical
Relationships affirmative negative Hypothetical Infinite mutually exclusive
4th Modality Problematic Assertorische apodictic Since this classification
in some, though not essential pieces, from the usual technique of logicians
seem to derogate, so the following caveats against the care
unnecessarily be misunderstood: 1.

The logicians rightly say that the use of rational judgments in the circuit
equal to the individual judgments can treat general. Indeed, precisely
because they have no scope, the same predicate is not just to some of
what the concept of the subject, is considered by some to be the exception,
however.

It is therefore of terms that, without exception, just as if the same
term would be a gemeingültiger who would have a circumference, whose full
significance of the predicate is true. If we compare a single verdict
on the other hand, with a gemeingültigen, merely as a recognition of
size, so they should behave like this unit to infinity, and is therefore
in itself of which differed significantly.

So, if I were a single sentence (Judicium singular) not merely according
to its internal validity, but also as knowledge at all, according to
the size, in comparison with other knowledge has value, it is however
gemeingültigen judgments (judicia Communia ) distinction, and deserves a
full table of the moments of reflection at all (although admittedly not
in the merely to the use of the judgments amongst themselves restricted
logic) a specific body 2. Likewise, in a transcendental logic of infinite
positive judgments still be distinguished, if they equal in the
general logic of those with legal beigezählt and no particular link in
the division total.

This is abstracted from all content of the predicate (like whether it
is negative) and only see whether the same subject attached, or it
will be opposed. Those concerned about the verdict but also the value
or content of this logical affirmation by means of a merely negative
predicate, and what this in view of the overall findings for a profit
gains. If I had said from the soul, she is not mortal, I would have a
negative opinion held at least one mistake. Now I have the sentence:
the soul is not mortal, although the logical form of affirmative
really, by my soul in the unlimited scope of nichtsterbenden being
set.

Because now the entire extent possible, the mortal nature a part containing
the Nichtsterbende But the other, it is through my sentence said
nothing other than that the soul of an infinite amount of things that
the left, if I take away a total of mortals. This however is only the
infinite sphere everything possible so far limited that the mortal
separated them, and in the rest area the size of their soul is.

This room remains for this exception is still infinite, and yet more parts
can be taken away from same, without question the notion of the soul
in the least increasing, and affirmatively determined. These endless
judgments so in view of the logical volume are really just restrictive
in view of the contents of the knowledge at all, and inasmuch as they
must in the transcendental table of all the moments of reflection in the
judgments not be overlooked, because the function is out of mind, perhaps
in the Felde pure a priori knowledge can be important 3. All conditions
of thinking in judgments are a) of the predicate to the subject, b) the
reason for the result, c) of the divided cognition and the gathered members
of the division between them. In the former type of sentences are
only two terms in the second two sentences, the third number of
judgments against each other in relation considered.

The hypothetical sentence: if there is perfect justice, the persistent
evil punished, actually contains the ratio of two sentences: It is a
perfect justice there, and the persistent evil is punished. Whether both
of these sentences are true in itself, remains unausgemacht here. It
is only the consequence of this ruling by the thought of. Finally, the
mutually exclusive verdict a ratio of two or more sets against each
other, but not the sequence, but of logical opposition, if the sphere
of one of the others, but also the community, inasmuch as they
constitute the sphere of actual knowledge meet So a ratio of parts of a
sphere of knowledge, as the sphere of each part of an additional
piece of the sphere of the other to the epitome of all knowledge is
divided, the world record is either by a blind chance there, or through
inner necessity, or by a external cause. Each of these sentences is a
part of the sphere of possible knowledge about the existence of a world
at all, all together the whole sphere. The finding of one of these spheres
taking away, is, in one of the other set, and against them in a
sphere set is, they take away from the rest.

It is thus in a mutually exclusive sentences a community of knowledge,
which is that they mutually exclude each other, but because of this but
as a whole to determine the true knowledge, they put together the
entire contents of a given single realization costs. And this is
just what I am because of the following hiebei be needed to find 4. The
modality of judgments is a special feature that the difference in him,
that they do not add to the contents of the above contribute (except
for size, quality and relationship is nothing more, what the
contents of a ruling of that,) but only the value of the Copula
in relation to the thinking at all concerned.

Problematic judgments are those where the negative or positive
answer than merely possible (optional) accepts. Assertorische because
it is really (true) is considered. Apodictic, where it is deemed necessary
*. Thus, the two judgments, whose relationship with the hypothetical
ruling makes (antecedens and consequens), imgleichen in which the
interaction is mutually exclusive, (members of the division) only
problematic. In the above example, the phrase: it is a perfect justice
here, not assertorisch said, but only as an arbitrary decision, which
it is possible to assume that someone, thought, and only the
consequence is assertorisch.

Therefore, these judgments also seem to be wrong, and yet, made
problematic, conditions of realization of the truth. So is the case:
the world is by blind chance because, in the mutually exclusive verdict
only problematic importance, namely, that this sentence someone to lend
some moment might accept, and serve it (such as the distortion of
the wrong way, less than the number all those who you can take) to find
the true. The problematic phrase is the one who only logical possibility
(which is not objective) expresses a free choice of such a sentence can
apply to a purely arbitrary record in the same mind. The assertorische
says of logical reality or truth, as in a hypothetical sense, the
final sentences in the upper Antecedens problematic in support
assertorisch occur, and indicates that the sentence with the understanding
in accordance with the laws already linked, the apodictic sentence
thinks the assertorischen by these laws of the mind itself, and therefore
a priori assertion and expressed in such a way of logical necessity.
Because now everything is here as the degree of understanding
incorporated, so that we previously judged a bit problematic, it
is also probably assertorisch accepts as true, finally as inseparably
connected with the understanding, ie as a necessary and apodictic
claims, so can these three functions of modality so much time
thinking about the call. * Immediately, as if the thinking in the
first case a function of the mind, in the second of the ruling force
in the third reason would be.

A remark, which only subsequently their education is expected.'s
Guide to the discovery of all pure concepts of mind Section § 10
Of the pure intellect concepts or categories, the general logic
abstracts, more like paint has already been said, of all content of
cognition, and expects that it elsewhere, where it may be, ideas are
needed to achieve this first in terms of turn, which sent analytically.

However, the transcendental logic of a varied sensuality, a priori, in
front of him, which is the transcendental aesthetic darbietet you to
the concepts of pure reason to give a substance, without which they
all, without content, therefore, would be completely empty. Space and
time, now include a varied of pure intuition a priori, are
nevertheless on the conditions of our mind Rezeptivität under which
alone it received notions of objects, which therefore also the
notion that any time affizieren need.

With the spontaneity of our thought requires the fact that this variety
first in some way through, recorded, and will be connected to make a
finding to make. This act I call synthesis. But I understand
Synthesis of general importance in the plot, various performances
hinzuzutun each other, and their diversity in one cognition to grasp.
Such a synthesis is pure, if not the Various empirically, but is
given a priori (like in space and time).

Before any analysis of our ideas must have previously given, and it
can not be the content of expressions analytically born. Synthesis a
diverse but (it was empirically or a priori given), will first
make a finding, which is still raw and initially may be confused, and
therefore the analysis requires, the synthesis is only one but what the
elements of knowledge collects, and to some content together, it
is the first, which we have eight to give, when we talk about
the first origin of our knowledge to judge. Synthesis ever, as we will
see, the mere effect of imagination, a blind, though indispensable
function of the soul, without which we do everywhere would have
no knowledge, but we rarely are aware of only once.

Alone, this synthesis to concepts to which is a function of understanding
the role, and thereby giving us the first insight into the true meaning
provides. The pure Synthesis, generally presented, now gives the pure
concept of mind. But I understand that this synthesis, which is why on a
unit of the synthetic a priori is based: it is our counting (primarily,
it is noticeable in larger numbers) a synthesis according to
concepts, because they look for a common essence of unity is done (the
record of the Decade ). Under this terminology will be the unit in the
synthesis of the manifold is necessary. Analytically, various
ideas brought under a concept, (a business, of which general logic
applies). But not the ideas, but the pure synthesis of ideas to bring
to terms, teaches the Transz. Logic. The first thing Behuf us to the
realization of all the items a priori to be struck, is the multiplicity
of pure intuition, the synthesis of this manifold by the imagination
is the second, but still no recognition.

The terms which this pure synthesis unit, and only in the performance
of this necessary synthetic unity exist, do the third one occurring on
the knowledge object, and based on the understanding. The same
function that the various ideas in a unit of judgments that are are also
mere synthesis of different ideas in a visual unit, which, generally
speaking, the concept is pure mind. The same mind that is, by precisely
the same acts, which he terms, means of the analytical unit, the
logical form of a ruling be made, also, means of the synthetic unity
of the diversity of opinion at all, in his ideas a transcendental
content, why they are called pure concepts of reason, the a priori
to objects to which the general logic can not afford.

Thus are born just so much pure mind concepts, which are a priori to
objects of contemplation ever go, as it did in the previous table logic
functions in all sorts of judgments was: because the mind is thought
by functions completely exhausted, and his fortune by entirely measured.
We want these concepts, according to the categories of Aristotle called
by our intention with the primordial his is regardless of whether they
are equal to them in the execution of even very distant. Table of
Categories 1 The quantity: unity multiplicity Allheit 2.

Quality: 3 The relation: reality of inherence and Subsistence (substantia
et Acciden) negation of causality and outbuildings (cause and effect)
Limitation. Community (interaction between the actors and sufferers).
4 The Modality: Possibility - Impossibility existence - not to need -
randomness. This is the distortion of all the originally pure concepts
of synthesis, the mind a priori within it, and he also derentwillen only
a pure mind is, by it alone something from the variety of visual
understanding of an object that can remember.

This classification is systematically from a common principle, namely
the property to judge (which is the same as the assets to think) is
created, and not rhapsodistisch, from a good luck at prospecting
undertaken pure concepts emerged, of which one never completed certainly
may be because they are only closed by induction, without to remember
that even on the latter type never knows precisely why these and not
the other terms of pure Reason attend. It was a sharp-witted man attack
worthy of Aristotle, these basic concepts reside.
I had by this time met and conversed with many of my people in their own
language, which was that of the labouring classes of my own times, and
from them I had learned that at a village called San Sebastian, through
which we had passed, about two leagues to the south of the city, there
still dwelt many families of Ayllos--that is to say, the descendants of
those of the old noble Inca lineage, who had been permitted by their
conquerors to settle here. Previous Seventh appearance. Flottwell
and Wolf from the garden. Flottwell. He, he, Mr. Chevalier! What are
you doing there? Dumont. I bewundre of nature! Flottwell. Bravo! You
extend your love of nature to the highest and the most common objects.
Wolf. Beautiful or ugly, this is the very same Mr. Chevalier. Dumont.
What do you say because of ugliness! The nature of the highest poetry,
and true poetry can never be common nor ugly. I want to apologize for
her beauty beat, beat, and let; ick and fall, so the world write
to me to my grave: it sleep under this stone Chevalier Dumont here
all alone, He has only made the Cour on earth of the heavenly nature.

Now that Welch glücklick tot lot! He ruhn in the bosom lover And will
he return in the sky, naturally welcome. (Is proudly off to the castle.)
Rosa (read the dishes together). Horrible! Allen intrusiveness is
exposed you in this house. Flottwell. Soft you from the guests when
they drank champagne. I am very dissatisfied with you, Mr. Wolf has also
complains that you are very naughty to him and without respect of me
talking. Rosa. The gracious Mr. valet? Ah, now I must speak - Wolf
(fine). That is not you, my child, you should only provide your
service.

Rosa. I stand with the Lord in gnädgen services and not for some people.
Wolf. Schweig only - Rosa. No, I will hide nothing. Everything must
work out. Wolf. What wickedness! Flottwell. Quiet! the matter becomes
serious. Rosa. Graces your knowledge of what the valet said? Flottwell.
What did he say? Rosa. He said - (Valentin quickly.) Valentin. The
jewelry is here. Flottwell. Ah bravo!

Only speed to my room. (Go fast.) (The jeweler enters from the side,
and) Wolf (leading him into the castle, before he says to Rosa). We
are, Mamsell. (Ab) Rosa (stands as petrifies). As I stand now! Valentin.
As it now stands. Rosa. To whom should I miss my anger? Valentin. Wait,
I'll get thee whom. (Will Forte). Rosa. You stay! To thee do I want
revenge, you fateful man. (Goes to him.) Valentin. To me? That was' me.
I've got nothing to say than: The jeweler is here. Rosa. Still
is! or - (rubs and will give him a slap in the face, but is suddenly
weak.) Woe to me! I take the blow. Valentin.

This is a stroke of luck, otherwise it would have taken me. Rosa (jumps).
The jeweler should hingehn where the pepper grows. Valentin. It can
tell him yourself. I do not know where he grows. Rosa. Hush! I know I'm
not to that extent. Valentin.

Nu swear only to the jeweler you will already hold. Rosa. Just go out
of my eyes (do as they want to scratch out his eyes), you're to blame
for everything! Valentin. I've got nothing gsagt as: The jeweler
is here.

Rosa. That's just your crimes. You should have nothing to say, if you see
that my virtue to the point is to defend its rights. (Ab) Valentin. That
is terrible. There may indeed still have so many Vices, so you can not
have much more increase than those of their unfortunate virtue. And I
know I am guilty of nothing. I have only grad can crack the code to
find out what this is a crime: If one says that the jewelry is here!

(Ab) Eighth appearance Verwandlung Short Cabinet Flott Wells. Through the
windows you can see in a colonnade and through them to the outside.
Flottwell and take a jeweler.

Flottwell (very happily.). Where did you see the jewelry? Enter, I am
already as a child! How will first look Amalie! Jeweler. Here it is!
Flottwell (besieht him and will seriously). My God, what have you
done? Jeweler. Why? Flottwell. So I can not do it! Jeweler. He is
after your claim that Mr. gnädger! Flottwell (is always fierce).

No, no! he is not! jeweler. Bring to the drawing, I can assure you!
Flottwell. No, no, no, no. (Mißmutig.)

He is too old-fashioned, well it's not the stones, which I selected.
Jewelers. Lord of Flottwell! this concerns my honor. Flottwell. The
I also, I can not do the jewelry. Jewelers. I take him back.
Flottwell. You have to. Jewelers. I want to change it. Flottwell. Too
late. He is a gift to heutgen celebration. You have my most joy to me
murdered by their awkwardness. Juwelier (slightly offended).

Lord of Flottwell - (Holds itself) I can assure you, it's just a cricket.
Flottwell. Make me not, the jewelry is bad. Jewelers. Consider him
only. Flottwell. No, he is against me so that I do the window could
throw. Jewelers. This you will probably leave to remain, I think!
Flottwell. I will not. Because it is! (Hurls him out the window.)
Jewelers (frightened). Ums heaven's sake!

the jewelry is two thousand dollars, Flottwell (proud). Are you
scared? Rag money! They should get it! Wait! (He hurries into the cabinet.)
Jeweler. This is a madness to me has not yet occurred. I get the jewelry
come in! (Expires.) (One sees the beggar in front of the window,
which has abolished the jewelry, it keeps to the sky and sings.)

Beggars. Habt thank you thank you good people, so abundant that it
presented me, My heart is yes prey of sorrow, Through own guilt, I am
hurt.

(He moves away from the columns and repeat the last words in the
distance.)

Jewelers (dismayed comes back). The jewelry is gone, I find him not.
(Flottwell from the Cabinet. He has brought contemplation, and his
demeanor shows that he regretted his ferocity, and their shame.

He wears two rolls of gold.) Flottwell (edel friendly). Here you have your
money, sir! Jeweler (like). Lord of Flottwell, I am very sorry -
Flottwell. They regret nothing - To me, the regret of my unforgivable
violence. My blood plays me some great string. I have to leave next Ader
days. Jewelers. A kind word makes everything well again.

Flottwell (pushes him a good hand). Not true, you do not take it amiss,
my dear friend - and you forget it - you never speak of it? I wish not
to say that you want to tell it somewhere. Jewelers.

I'll give my word of honor - Flottwell. Yes, yes, I know I can rely
entirely on you. Also werd ich Your art certainly very soon again take
to complete. Certainly, certainly, I will order something soon leave.
Very soon. And now, goodbye, my friend, and no grudges.
Juwelier (with a deep bow). How can I, I am so deeply touched. (The
departure). If only he soon would make something! (Ab) Flottwell (alone).
A storm moving day! If he is already over. (Throws himself in front of
hinstarrend in a chair.) (In the distance the sound of the last
verses of singing beggar.)

Beggars. My heart will always be prey of sorrow, Through own guilt, I am
hurt. Flottwell (jumps up). Welch song - (wolf occurs.) Wolf. Gnädger
Ah, dearest Lord! How did the jeweler but his ill-made thing, I've just
ausgezankt him.

But make sure that the jewelry is gone, and nobody wants to have it
repealed. Flottwell. That would be me very unlieb - because it costs
a lot. Wolf. He must find, I saw him fly out the window. Anyone I respected
in the vicinity of the chamber as a girl Rosa. I immediately hurries
down because she was gone, and when I inquired, they would not
have seen. Flottwell. I can not believe it.

Wolf. One must investigate the matter be. Flottwell. Just not today.
That makes too much fuss, and then who knows ists true. Wolf. Certainly,
I've almost seen. Flottwell. If it is true, it must continue, otherwise
I do not wish doom. Wolf. As the sky but often leaves the people! It's
been everything to prepare the feast, the guests are gathered in the
garden room. I have the beautiful view from the valley with Traperien
can impose.

We want to wait until the sun goes down, and if they suddenly disappear,
it will give an impressive sight.

Flottwell. Are the dancers already preparing? Wolf. Yes. The Lord President
is also here. Flottwell. Amalie here! What do you say this only now?
Wolf. I have them in the blue room, which, but Baron is gone after
the garden. Flottwell (ascend). The Baron? Shameful that my rival yet to
ask guests must. What should I do now Amalien worship, the jewelry is
gone. Wolf.

Give her the precious vase that you bought first, but this is a gift,
one that is worthy of Millionaires. Flottwell. It is of great value,
but just right, the President is a friend of the arts. Maybe it is gaining
das Wolf (for themselves). Since you are mistaken. Flottwell. Let
them decorate with flowers, in short, everything besorgs. I will say
to her, to her .-- (Both from.)

Ninth appearance transformation into a noble chamber. The President of
Klugheim and Amalie. Klugheim. Calm but thee, my daughter, and let me not
regret that I was so weak, your request down. Amalienburg (their pain).
Yes, my father, I want quiet. Klugheim. Now I see only me, thou hast
deceived by erzwungne cheerfulness. You should see him again. Amalienburg.
On the contrary, my father, it is a long time to strengthen myself,
my suffering to endure. Klugheim. Do not forget that we in society are
that you and the Baron more than his love life.

Zehnter Previous appearance. Flottwell. Flottwell (with warmth). My
venerable Mr. President! The highest favor, which I could gain from
luck, is the honor to welcome to my castle. Holdes My lady! Flottwell
will never forget that your noble heart is not spurned, his little festival
queen to be. Amalie (the bow). Lord of Flottwell - Klugheim. Enough
of the ceremony. It is the friend for a friend. Flottwell. Is that
really so, Mr. President? Klugheim. You doubt it? Then it would be
only half way.

Flottwell. Oh, how eagerly I wish that it would be quite so! That I you -
Klugheim (fine). Mr. Flottwell of any failure on previous relationships
is against the condition under which I have today had accepted the
invitation. Amalienburg. Best's father, let it soften! If your life
is something your child. Klugheim. What should it be? Is a conspiracy
against me in the works? , I found myself hieher loaded in order to
renew one thing that I did quit for? Flottwell. You are wrong, Mr.
President. Miss your daughter - Klugheim. If a Schwärmerin. Happiness
of your life is familiar to me from God, and nobody can verargen
it to me when I'm not in the arms of her unhappiness lead.

Flottwell. Mr. President, you misjudge me too much. Klugheim. I can see
clearly what you once only the future will reveal. Flottwell. I'm
vilified. Klugheim. By nobody - (Flitterstein opens the door.)
Flottwell.

Through the cunning Flitterstein Baron - Baron Flitterstein (with
astonishment, without the decency to injure). Here is the speech
from me? Flottwell (striking). No - Flitterstein (gathers himself and
smiles fine). Ah so. So from a relative of mine.

I wanted to know only as a gentleman. Flottwell (embarrassed). Mr Baron!
I am delighted - Flitterstein (fast). I understand. My friendship with
the President - Flottwell. If the cause is that you give me the honor of
your visit gift. I am informed of everything. (After a pause, by which
the embarrassment of announcing.) Is it now go to the society to go?

Flitterstein. Please yourself. Flottwell (last Amalien the arm). My
lady! (Does it continue.) (Flitterstein follows.) Klugheim. I fear that
we have the pleasure and the displeasure called our doors open. (Ab)
Eleventh appearance transformation Herrlich flowers with gold and
decorated garden room.

The rear wall tastefully traperiert. All guests are gathered. Nobel
dressed lords and ladies. Dumont. Walter.

While the choir joined the president, Flitterstein, and Amalie Flottwell
and reset itself. Wolf. Choir. Froh raptured guests Wallen Through the
richly decorated halls. Will the desire to shine marry, they must Flott
Wells castle itself choose. Only emblazoned in its halls, What the
Heart trunkne required.

(Dancers in Spanish costumes lead a delightful dance, and at the end
formed an impressive group, in which children in the same costumes, the
vase with flowers on a round pedestal in the middle of the theater are.)
Flottwell (for themselves).

What has made wolf but now they should not receive it. Klugheim. Look,
Baron, the famous vase, which a Frenchman to the Minister by twenty
thousand francs offered. Flitterstein. Truly, yes it is. Several guests
(see it). Really beautiful! Walter.

Sehn you but here, Chevalier, the vase from Paris. Dumont (hingeworfen
in a chair without looking). O charming! You very außerordentlick.
Walter. You have not even viewed. Dumont.

Ick, they need to see even nick, ick just need to hear de Paris, can
hardly be otherwise as a nick magnific. Flitterstein. Verily, you are
to this work of art to be envied, Mr. von Flottwell. Flottwell (for
themselves). Now I can not go back. (Laut.) It is no longer my
property.

An insignificant gift that I am the queen of the feast pond. Amalienburg
(pleased). Oh Father! how pleased I am das Klugheim (strict). Not
yet, my child! Excuse me, Mr. von Flottwell that I will not. The
gift here is too precious to it.

Flitterstein. Yes, yes, it is too precious. Flottwell. That is not, my
Lord Baron. The world enjoys no jewel, which would be precious to
him that Miss gift to offer. Klugheim.

Also, I do not know how we come to such honor. Flitterstein (halblaut).
The more offensive than - Flottwell (it starts up). Offensive?
Flitterstein.

I do not take it back! Flottwell (grimly). What ways; the point there, my
Lord Baron, that the word so zealous for the honor of leading ladies?
Klugheim.

He speaks on behalf of his bride künftgen. Some guests. As we congratulate!
Flottwell (destroyed). Then I have nothing more to say! Klugheim. Take
the vase here, he presented a prince, not a gentleman. Flottwell (proud).
Treat me so!

I'm the king of my property. This work had its highest value only borrowed
the idea that these beautiful hand it once as a gladdening will
affect the property, it should not be!

I respect not. Wolf! (Wolf occurs before) Take it out! I give this
vase to my valet. (Wolf makes an embarrassed half-bow. The vase is
removed.) Flitterstein. What a great sense! Klugheim.

Unbegreiflich! Dumont. The man's crazy gans. Amalienburg. How can he
just forget it! Guests (clap). Bravo! so avenge a millionaire! Flottwell.
This should not spoil our enjoyment. Since France's art so bad victory,
I will before your eyes Now picture unroll a German, whose beauty
you certainly will not dispute it. You should see what I have an
excellent prospect. (Clapped their hands.) (Musik. - The curtain is
dwindling, and across the entire width of the theater is a big
wide opening through which a magnificent area in perspective gemalt
day. A beautiful valley, here and there with villages besäet, from
a river and through the distant blue mountains limited, shines in the
sunset. The base of the frame forms a balustrade niedre. In the
left foreground of the audience sits like a mysterious thicket of dark
appearance of the setting sun lit up the Beggar with a uncovered
head and against the sky-looking view into a picturesque position. So
that the whole provides a touching picture.) Flottwell (without
a closer look).

Is there a better prospect? (He is appalled when he sees the beggar.) Ha!
What a picture. A strange coincidence!

(These words speak Flottwell already quietly under the beginning
of the music.) Chorus of guests (for which all the beggar is not
visible). Oh, but you see this beautiful valley, where the earth is
emblazoned with higher attraction? The connoisseur is no choice here,
The sight surpasses Switzerland. beggars. no star shine, not sunshine
may be one beggar Aug erfreun. The wealth is a faithless Good,
Happiness flees before the high spirits. Flottwell (which is always in
the image of hingestarrt has to Wolf). Jagt but continued the beggar,
why let him here so near to the castle linger? (The beggar stands up
and goes to the side where he sits on the hill through the low bushes
in the scene.) Wolf. What a beggar? We say no. Flottwell. As he goes
out! (Stares after him.) Wolf. He speaks confused. (Amalie is uncomfortable.)
Klugheim. God in heaven! my daughter. Flottwell. Amalie? What is it?
(All guests on the move.) Klugheim. You erbleicht! Flottwell (crashes
at her feet). Amalie, expensive girl! Julius hear your voice. Flitterstein
(hurls him outraged by it). Back, seducer! entlarvst you now! Flottwell
(ergrimmt takes his hand). Satisfaction, sir!

This goes too far. Flitterstein. Ists to go? (Indicates to the
garden.) Flottwell. Follow! (Both the left.) Several guests. Hold!
(According to hurry.) Klugheim. Get the doctor!

(Serves continue.) Wolf. Into the cabinet! Multiple. Thus ends this
festival. (The other half go with Klugheim and Wolf, which Amalie cabinet
right after the lead from. Only) Dumont (who during the confusion at
the window, and go through the throng of guests was hidden, left
behind he is in the middle of the window in a chair thrown jumps
when everything is gone, that leans on the window parapet, looks
through the lorgnette excited and calls).

Divine Nature! Twelfth appearance shortly before the cabinet falls.
Valentin and Rosa. Valentin. So leave me out, so I must see what
happened.

Everything is running like this, and the Miss Amalie, say s', is like a
denomination umgefallen wood. She gets confusion. Rosa. Since
staying. My fate ists to you to take care of you. (Weeps bitterly.) I
am the aggrieved person in this house. Valentin. What have you because
they already done? Rosa. But patience! Tomorrow I go to court. Everything
is locked. The gnädge Lord, the valet. All guests, the whole castle
and du Valentin. Makes me s' is not enough. What hats because where?
Rosa. Slaps in the face as soon hätts. Valentin. Ah, I am glad that
I was not there. Rosa. The valet has offered me slaps in the face. Has
told me a thief, has a jewelry demanded of me.

We, on behalf of Mr gnädgen the service with it and made me want to
by servants can also throw. Valentin. That is a whole world history. When
is this all happen? Rosa. Prior to a quarter of an hour, as the vases
in the hall above have fetched. Valentin. That is terrible! Pink. The
man thinks so, it has its honesty and reputation stolen. Valentin. And
the jewelry also. No! you can not leave so hingehn. Rosa.

You must accept yourself. I am a woman. I am too weak. Valentin. In any
case. You're too weak. Rosa. You're a man, you is the strength. Valentin.
Admittedly, I am the strength, so werd ich also superior to me. Rosa.
I still go today, and tomorrow I Klag. Valentin. And I go tomorrow, and
complaining that today! and where? gnädgen the Lord, because that is an
accusation that is not to be seated must leave! Rosa (weeping). Not
true, you do not believe it that I've taken the diamonds? Valentin.
No! You're too virtuous. You're just going to the eye, not the diamonds.
But now get on.

Rosa. We pack up and go. Valentin. The livery will remain there, which
belongs to the Lord. I ghört my carpenter skirt, which I shared with
traditional hab.

The other luggage, I do not need, I am satisfied with thee alone. Rosa.
We bring us to continue. Valentin. I go back to my carpentry. But
before I want my masterpiece still do. Rosa. What will do? Valentin.
The Chamber will serve me in the work take. Ah, he is too rude. About
the comment must be a carpenter. Rosa. Pull yourself together. Valentin.
Oh, you do not know me, I'm the best man, but when it comes to
honesty and reputation, so I can come into a rage like the rolling
Rasand.

I want to show the valet - (The Cellar Master rushes across the stage.)
Hey! Mr. Keller Masters, where you go out? Cellar masters. I am big
barrel abgesprungen a tire, I must deduct the wine. Valentin. Ha!
This is a Wink of fate. Man! I follow thee. (Goes with the tragic from
the cellar master.) Rosa (alone). Ah spectacle! now must be a spy antrinken
if he wants to get courage. No, what a miserable man for his pictures
in the present time, it's never to endure.
I hurried to Ullullo's house once more and brought him back with me,
telling him on the way what I wanted him to do for me. When we reached
the house again we saw Djama standing in the courtyard, and Ullullo,
doing as I had bid him, went in to him, and told him in Spanish, which I
could not speak, that if he would give him ten dollars he should learn
the secret of my goings and comings, and where I was to find the gold
with which to pay for the hacienda. Djama instantly promised him the
money, as I thought he would, and Ullullo told him to be at the end of
the street which is now called El Triunfo at eleven o'clock that night.
He was to come alone, for if anyone came with him he would learn
nothing. As you will soon see, I had two objects to serve in doing this.

When Ullullo came back and told me that Djama would be there, I bade
him wait for me at the same place and hour, and then I went away alone
out of the city and up a path which led towards the mountains to the
north. There, alone and in silence, I communed with my own soul, at
first in sorrow, yet slowly becoming more and more peaceful in heart,
even as one who is told that he is to die on a certain day first rages
against his doom and then learns to contemplate with calmness that which
there is no hope of escaping. That makes, because the other characters
quite apart from all natural, and we are even easier with a woman
from Dragoner than sympathize with himmelbrütenden owls. Only toward the
end, where they met with enthusiastic tone in the fall, it will be us
as indifferent and disgust.

Everything is in their opposition, and they always jump from one extreme
to the other. No sooner has she declared her love, as she adds: "Are you
my heart verschmähn? You remain silent? - Resolution thee, And if you
doubt it - so tremble - tremble So? Olint should tremble? He, she
often in the riots of the battle among the stout-brushing of death seen?
And should tremble before it? What will they? Will they scratch out
his eyes? - O if the actress would be haggard for these naughty
female Gasconade "said tremble "to say:" I tremble! "She was trembling
so much she wanted, spurned their love, their pride beleidiget to find.
That would have been very natural. But it by Olint require opposite of
love from him with a knife at the throats, demanding, that's so naughty
as ridiculous.

But what would have helped the poet for a moment longer in the
limitations of Woh1standes to moderation and receive? He continues,
Clorinden in the true tone of a drunken Marketenderin rasen to leave,
and there's no relief, no Bemäntelung more. The only thing the actress
to his best yet could do this would perhaps, if it differs from its wild
fire not completely ravish could, if they are a little to think
if they the extreme anger with the utmost exertion of the voice,
not the violent gestures with words.

If Shakespeare is not an equally great actors in the exercise has been,
as he is a dramatic poet was, he at least equally well known,
leading to the art of one, but what about the art of the other belongs.
Yes, perhaps he had about the art of the first order so much deep
thought, because he is so much less had this genius. At least, every
word that he, Hamlet, when he abrichtet comedian, lays down in the
mouth, a golden rule for all actors, those who applauded a reasonable
location. "I ask you," he allows him to other comedians say, "speak
the speech as I do you vorsagte the tongue should be just about
hinlaufen. But if you do it so heraushalset, as some of our actors do
you see, so I would have loved it just as if the town crier had said
my verses. Also durchsägt me with your hand is not so much the air,
but does everything pretty good, because in the middle of the currents,
in the midst of the storm, in the middle, so to speak, in the
whirlwinds of passion, you must have a degree of moderation observed
of them are soft and smooth.

"Man speaks so much of the fire of the actor, you zerstreitet so much
whether an actor too much fire could have. If those who assert it,
to cite evidence that an actor so well at the wrong places violently,
or at least could be fierce when the circumstances require so have
those who deny it, right to say that in such case the actor is not too
much fire, but too little intellect show. Ever ways; the point but
probably depends on what we understand the word of the fire.

If Kontorhaus Sione and yelling fire, so it is not disputed is that
the actor can go too far.

But is the fire in the speed and agility with which all the pieces
that represent the actor, theirs will help to ensure that its games have
the appearance of truth to give it, we should note that the truth is not
up to the extreme illusion driven desire to see if it would be
possible that the actor too much fire in this understanding apply
could.

It may also not this fire, whose moderation Shakespeare himself in the
currents in the storm, in the whirlwinds of passion is required: it
must be just that voice and the ferocity of my movements, and the
reason is easy to find, why, where the poet is not the slightest
moderation has observed, yet the actor in both pieces must be
moderate.

There are few voices, in their utmost effort would not be obnoxious, and
too fast, too turbulent motions are rarely to be noble. Nevertheless,
neither our eyes nor our ears be beleidiget; alsdenn and only if you
submit at all the violent passions avoids what this or that might be
uncomfortable, they have the smooth and supple, which is a Hamlet also
because they require if they meet the highest impression and make him
the conscience of the obdurate harmdoers sleep should shrink. The art of
the actor stand here between the visual arts and poetry middle inne.
As a painting must be visible while the beauty of their highest
law to be, but as a transitory needs painting her silence those
positions are not always to give the ancient works of art makes it
impressive.

It may be, it must make the wild one Tempesta, the Cheeky Bernini often
allow one, it has made her all the expressions, which is peculiar to
him, without the offenses to have it in the visual arts through the
permanent status are given. Only it must not be too long to linger, it
only needs the previous movements and gradually prepare for the next
turn in the general tone of the Wohlanständigen resolve only must they
never give all the strength of which it the poet in his Processing
can drive.

Because it is a silent poetry, but our eyes are immediately understood,
will, and any sense wants to be flattered when the terms which he was the
soul gibet, unadulterated should transmit. It could easily be that Our
Actor in moderation, to which the art even in the fiercest passions
combines, in view of the applause is probably not too likely .-- But what
applause? - The Gallery, is a great lover of the noise ends, and raging,
and rarely they lack is a good read with lung hands to reciprocate. The
German is still quite a parterre of the flavors, and there are actors who
are smart enough for this to take advantage of tastes know. The sleepy
rafft itself, toward the end of the scene, if he should go off
together, at once Lift up the voice and überladet the action without
having to consider whether the meaning of his speech that also require
greater effort.

Not infrequently they even contradict the Constitution, with which he
will depart, but what does he? Enough that he has ground it reminds
closely to him, and if it wants to have the goodness, he nachzuklatschen.
After gelato should be him! But unfortunately, it is sometimes not
familiar enough to some kind, and takes the desire, to want to
like him for the deed. I do not dare me, by the action of the other
actors in this piece something to say. If they just always tried to be
bemänteln error, and the mediocre to argue: it may also be the
best no different than in a highly ambiguous light appear.

If we do the annoyances that we caused the poet, not with charges, so we
are not tidy enough, it all fairness to prove that he verdienet. The
decision of the first evening was "The Triumph of the last time" , a
comedy in a lift, after the French of Le Grand. It is one of the three
small pieces of what Le Grand under the general title "The Triumph
of Time" in 1724, on the French stage was only after the substance
of that already some years before, under the words "The love
ridiculous" deals, but so little applause had received.

The invasion, which is the reason, is droll enough, and some situations
are very ridiculous. Only the ridicule of the way it is more of a
satirical story, rather than on the stage sent. The victory of time
over beauty and youth makes a sad idea, the imagination a fop sixty years
and an equally old Närrin that time only about their charms no violence
should have had is ridiculous, but this dude and this Närrin themselves
to see is disgusting, as ridiculous. Sixth Piece 19 May 1767 I still have
the salutations to the audience, before and after the big pieces of the
first evening, not thought. You are writing from a poet, who more than
anyone else understands profound sense of humor aufzuheitern, the
Serious and thoughtful countenance pleasing to the jokes.

What could I use these leaves auszieren better than when I announce my
readers all over? Here they are. They do not require any comment. I wish
only that some is not in the wind said was, you were both extremely
well, the first with all the decorum and dignity, and the other
with all the warmth and finesse and ingratiating liability spoken to
the specific content of each erfoderte. prologue (spoken by Madame
Lion) Your friends, where here the manifold game Man in the art of
imitation liked: You who are happy tears, her soft, improve souls,
How beautiful, how precious is the desire to get as to torment;
When soon the sweet tears' by the heart softens, In tenderness
zerschmilzt, quietly sneaks of the cheeks, soon assailed the soul
', in every nerve "shocked, Im suffering feels lust and trembles
with pleasure!

O says, this is art, so eur Heart zerschmelzt, The passions flow through
eur Inners rolls, Fun, if it comes, adorable when they schrecket,
For pity, Menschenlieb 'and magnanimity erwecket, The Sittenbilderin
that each teaches virtue "Is not your favor and maintain your worth?

The Fürsicht compassionate sends to the earth, To the best of the barbaric,
so he will be humanely; Consecrate them, the teacher of kings to be,
with dignity, with genius, with Feurer from heaven On; Is it in their
power, through tears of delight, The Stump solid sense of human love
whet; Thanks sweet heart anxiety, and malice pleasant Graun The tame and
the souls baun; Responsible for the welfare state, the angry, the
Wild For people who citizen, friend and patriot form. strengthen
laws in the states as a safety chains at the hands of injustice,
but still list covers the evil before the judge, and power protection
is often sublime baddie.

Who will avenge the innocent? Woe to the depressed state, which, instead
of virtue, but a law has! Laws, only an open bridle crimes laws, which
teaches you to speak of hatred verdict, if they selfishness, pride
and partiality for one of Solon mind the spirit of lends oppression!

As soon learns to bribery in order to escape punishment, The Majesty
of the sword from her hands twist: Because pflanzet Herrschbegier, is
pleased to revocation of probity, freedom of the foot on the neck. If
those who represent them in Schimpf gangs and languish, And the
blutschuld'ge Suppl slaughter of innocent Themis!

If that no law can punish or penalize, the wily villain, the bloody tyrant,
of the innocence When pressed, those who dare, they cover? secures the
deep list, and these armed terror. Who is the genius of entgegenlegt?
- Who? You, the itzt the dagger, and the scourge itzt bears unerschrockne
The art which all persons Mißgestalten criminal folly dares providing
the mirror; The tissues' unveiled, reflecting verspinnt list, And the
tyrant said that they are tyrants; The, people without fear, before
the thrones not erblödet And with voice of thunder, 'fond of talking
about Prince, crowned murderer deters, fasting makes the ambition, the
hypocrite züchtiget laughs wiser and gates, and you, the lessons appear
to be dead, the great art with which we laugh, or cry.

It took place in Greece, protection, love and Lehrbegier; In Rome, in Gaul,
in Albion, and - here. My friends, you often here, when her tears
flowed, with exquisite softness with which your potted; honest
Have your pain with the pain it brings And from the chest full of
applause zugeweint: How she hated, loved, and gescheuet And gehoffet
your humanity in suffering erfreuet you.

Lang, it has nothing after umgesehn stages: In Hamburg she found
protection here unless you Athens!

Here, in the bosom of the Ruh ', in the wise protect patrons, Gemutiget
by praise, completed by the expert; reifet here - yes, I wish, I hope,
I prophesy' it - A second Roscius, a second Sophocles, The Germania
Gräciens Kothurn re: And a part of this fame, their patrons, is
yours.

O are the same value! Remains equal to your kindness, And thought,
oh remember, all of Germany looks on you!

Epilogue (spoken by Madame Hensel) Look here! so staunchly convinced
of the Christian dies!

Sun Hasset the unloving, the error is useful, the barbarism needs to
maintain his case, his handsome, his dream of teaching God's
doing. The spirit of error was persecution and violence, Where
blindness to merit, and fear was for prayer. Thus, 'his web of lies with
the lightning, the majesty, with poison, with the assassination protect.
Where conviction, fear makes good the deficiency: the truth occasionally,
the error HEREBY INVITES blood. you need to track the and convert
with the sword, The faith are different than the Ismenors teach.

And some of Aladin provides staatsklug or weak the black blood of the court
after Holy murderers And must with his sword to what dreamers hate
the friend, the martyr of truth can choke. Horrible Meisterstück Herrschsucht
the list and, what no name hard, cold is not a dirty word! O doctrine
that allows the deity itself to abuse, in a heart innocent of hatred
dagger to immerse yourself, you Blutpanier often over corpses bore
you, abomination, to verschmähn who lends me a curse!

My friend ', in whose breast the noble voice of humanity, according to
the heroine said, the priest when she Grimme was a blameless victim and
fell for the truth: Do thank you for this feeling, for every tear you!
Who errs deserves not breed hatred or ridicule what teaches people
to hate, is not a doctrine of God! Oh! loves astray, without malice,
blind, although weaker, perhaps, but always people. Belehret, condone
them, and not forcing the tears, the accused shall not otherwise
than that they think differently!

creativity is the right man, whom his true faith, nothing to control
forces, to evil hypocrisy; The glow of the truth and never reined in
by fear, you joyfully as Olint, sealed with his blood. Such example, noble
friend ', is worthy of your applause: O probably us !

we would have what Cronegk beautifully taught, thought, which it refines
itself so much have, through our imagination into deeply dug eur
heart!

The poet's life was beautiful, like his after fame is he was, and - forgive
the tears o '! - and died a Christian. Ließ his great heart of the world
in poems, in order to - what more can you ask for? - still dead to
teach. Versaget, has stirred you itzt Sophronia, not because of his
ashes, which you rightly deserves, The sighs that he died, the
gratitude for his teaching, And - oh!

the sad toll of a Zähre. We, however, noble friend ', ermuntre Validity;
And we would have missed, it rebukes, but forgives. mutiget
forgiveness to edelerm Erkühnen, And teaches fine reproof deserve
the highest praise.

Considering that among us the art only barely begins, in which one
thousand for a Quins Garrick are not expected too much, so we always get
off, And - but only you deserve to judge us to be silent. Seventh Piece
22nd May 1767 The prologue zeiget drama at its highest dignity, by
giving it as a supplement to the law consider it.

There are things in the moral behavior of man, which, in view of their
direct influence on the welfare of society, and insignificant in
themselves are mutable in that it would be worthy or capable, under
the strict supervision of the law to stand.

There are others, against which all power of legislation falls
short, in their drivers so incomprehensible in itself is so enormously
in their consequences are so immense that it is either the sanction of
the law but quite impossible to miss or punished according to merit
can be.

I do not want to undertake the first, rather than the ridiculous genres,
comedy, and the others, as to extraordinary phenomena in the realms of
decency, which sense in amazement and the heart in turmoil, which
restrict tragedy.

The genius of laughs over all the border divorces of criticism. But so
much is not disputed that the drama about his allegation, either
within or beyond the limits of the law wählet and the actual items
that dealt with only insofar as they either lose the ridiculous, or
disgusting to the spread. The epilogue verweilet in one of the main
doctrines to which part of the plot and characters of the tragedy with
abzwecken. While it was by the of Mr. Cronegk a little ill, in one
piece, its substance from the unhappy times of the Crusades is made,
which preach tolerance and the abomination of the spirit of persecution
in the confession of religion mahomedanischen want to show. Because
these crusades themselves, their investment in a political trick of the
popes were in their execution of the inhuman persecution, which
the Christian superstition ever guilty of the most bloodthirsty
Ismenors and had the true religion, and individuals who beraubet
have a mosque, for sanction consider ways; the point is probably
against the unfortunate frenzy, quite believing what the depopulated
Europe to Asia to devastate unbelieving?

Tragikus But what of his works in a very unseemly appropriate, which was
the poet of the epilogue did well respectively. Humanity and gentleness
deserve at every opportunity to be recommended, and no reason it
can be removed so that at least our hearts are not very natural and
should be urgently found.

By the way, I agree with the pleasure of moving Lobe in which the
poet blessed Cronegk erteilet.

But I am hardly bereden leave it with me on the poetic value of the
critical piece also does not agree should be. I am very affected, as I
am assured that I am different from my readers through my reluctant
verdict unverhohlnes had.

If they humble freedom, in itself no Apart intentions think, displeases,
so I run the risk, they are still often reluctant to make. I had no
intention to give them the reading of a poet to verleiden the
unsophisticated humor, lots of fine sensation and the first loud
recommend morale.

These properties are estimated with him any time, whether he has other
must agree on which he either had no facility, or to their maturity
require certain years, far below what he died. His "Kodrus" promised
by the authors of the "Library of Fine Science gekrönet, but
certainly not as a good piece, but as the best of those who were
arguing over the price.

My opinion is he is no honor to him was the criticism erteilet.
If the bet is limping to run, so the remains, which of them first on
the objective ways; the point, but still limping. A place in the epilogue
is a Mißdeutung been suspended from them to be rescued verdienet. The
poet says: "Considering that the arts among us only rarely begins in
which one thousand for a Quins Garrick are."

Quin, I remember darwider hear is not bad actors.
The price was more than
twice as much as was needed for the hacienda, so with the rest I
discharged my debt and made myself once more a free man.

There is no need for me to dwell upon our dealings with the owner of the
hacienda, and therefore it will suffice for me to say, before ten days
more had passed the purchase-money had been paid, we had taken up our
abode there, and installed Joyful Star as housewife, with faithful
servants chosen by myself from among the Children of the Blood. Djama,
who had been strangely silent and reserved with all of us since the
lesson I had taught him in the Hall of Gold, had taken possession of the
chamber which was devoted to his uses, and had put all his apparatus in
order for the great work that was to be done there.

So on the fourteenth day, such was the power of my gold and of my
longings, all things were ready, and at daybreak on the fifteenth day we
rode at the head of our little mule train out of the courtyard of the
hacienda on our way to the resting-place of Golden Star.


CHAPTER IV

THE SISTER STARS


For five long days we travelled slowly and toilfully on our way from the
valley of Cuzco to that other where Golden Star lay sleeping beside the
lake. Over high plains and pleasant valleys, through deep, dark gorges
and ravines, to whose lowest depths the sun but seldom reaches, and then
but for an hour or two, along narrow pathways cut into the living rock
on the mountain side, with precipices on one hand falling thousands of
feet into the dark abysses, where the torrents roared and foamed, and on
the other the great rock-walls of the mountain soaring up into the sky
yet more thousands of feet above us.

Oh, stop it, world! Oh, listen to all the people! The rich man has a
beggar darbe. Flottwell (halblaut). This is terrible shrieks betray
me at the end. Schweig yet, take this gold, in order to breast feed
your greed. (He throws him out a bag.) (Also thunder.) Beggars (raises
him. According jammernd) Too little ists for me, my misery is too
great. I do not, in the world to complain of my suffering (from the
entrance) and call mankind to judge between us on. Flottwell. Silence
you do not by gold, so get steel silent. Hush! or I will pierce you! (He
pulls the sword and durchsticht him.) Beggars (freezes). Murderer! Your
rage is free! You've wounded me. What I desire, I can only reconcile.
(Again, ask.)

Oh, do you want to see but now in my request willgen. Flottwell (stubborn).
You want to force me to? Never! Beggars (halblaut calling). To flee,
spendthrift, run! But you will not escape me, and on the Thames, we see
us again! (Ab) (The moon is hidden behind the clouds. You hear the wind
boom. Lightnings lit.) Flottwell. When I him there in the moonlight in
the pale face stared, it took me, as I would tend to see my father's
spirit. The night is stormy. Ha! A shadow flies so! Nineteenth previous
appearance. Amalie, shrouded in a cloak, his head covered with a Männerhut
occurs breathless one.

Flottwell. Are you there, Wolf? Amalie (collapses exhausted in his
arms). No, I'm there, my Julius! Flottwell (delighted). Amalie! Expensive
girl! Will you be alone? Amalie. I could not move my servants, the
uncertain fate with the mistress to share. My father watched from the
Baron. So let us quickly away from it when he comes home, he will
wish me to speak. Flottwell. Es tut mir weh, the loyal wolf behind. But
the danger is pressing us. If we are not only the storm would
have to be afraid! (Donner. from both.) Twentieth appearance Transformation
The shores of the lake.

On a rock a boat cabin. Max and Thomas, two boatmen, pull a barge
with a sail to the shore.

The waves of the lake are high.

It is not entirely gloomy, but light fallow. Thomas (stands on the
rock and pulls the ship). Max, pull the sail to the wind tears it
sonst Max (do it).

The weather also has dogs must come to poor people to reduce earnings.
Thomas.

When the morning like an old woman sees the buzzing, as the executioner
always carries a weather her.

Max Curse just not so, otherwise the lake is still higher. Vorige Twenty-first
appearance. Flottwell. Amalie. Flottwell. Ha, are you there? Now let us
quickly from Hinnen! Thomas. What do you, who will ride in such
weather!

Flottwell. We need to continue. Ich hab euch ja hired! Max For over ships.
Yes! With what you pay for us because drowning? Thomas. The storm throws
us the light Kahn yes to ten. Max We do not sail! Flottwell (verzweiflungsvoll).
You must. Thomas, Max, we do not want to! Amalie (to see). O God, thou
punish me in this hour. Flottwell. I burn you this ball through the
head. (Keeps Terzerol him before.) Thomas (he proposes the pistol with
the oars out of the hands). But let the stupid stuff. The weather is
already pop can. Max Since you have to forward to others as a way of
forcing. Flottwell. Well, I give you two hundred Louisdor if the lake
behind it. Thomas. That is a word! (At max) If you want your life dare?
Max Why not? When I'm out, I'm not alone ichs. (If a.) Thomas (Flott
Wells suggests in hand). Potz and cliffs tower because it is.

But listen to us that the women's room is not about crying. The lake is
bad as my wife, if you fear that drives Sies always worse, but man
proposes with the helm hard up they mouth because they are after.
Now! Flottwell. Now I'm feeling lucky (all four of you go after the ship.
Music starts. Herumwerfen After some of Kahn steer her away. The storm
rages. It proposes. This expresses the music. Seemöven fly across
the stage.

But suddenly makes the after storm, the waves go niedrer. The moon is
half visible between the clouds and casts its glow on the beggar, which
on a small hardly noticeable with a barge by the storm ripped sails
gently flexed sitting vorüberfährt. The music plays the melody of his
song beggars . If he is to continue, increasing the storm, and the Kortine
falls.) Third Lift Twenty years later, First appearance Flott Wells
castle, as at the beginning of the second act, only the master castle
in the distance is ruin in ruins. Flottwell, looking quite like the
beggar, sits at the abandoning of Kortine at the same place where
the beggar sat.

If the entrance music, which at the opening of the stage continues
for several cycles, is finished, he stands on. Flottwell. So I see
you again after twenty years, you prouder of my summer joy temple life.
You are so serious and sinnend because, like a monument to the grave
sunken bliss. The old cheerfulness seems you also diminished. Once
schallte cheering from the windows of the marble hall. Silver dice
Kollert still on the green table. Inebriated players rushed to my
well-being from the golden cup, and swung the übermütge joy riesgen
wings. Now it is silent and quiet.

The morning has long happy song sung, and that gate is still closed. Or
you can look just at this moment so seriously, because your founders so
greets thee again? Since I have not seen you, has much changed my fate.
I have wife, child and all through my own fault Well lost. Persecution,
I probably never to be afraid, because Flitterstein, my biggest enemy
is fallen in the battle. But where am I in this situation now plead for
help? The noble President - he has given us so before his death still
verziehn - is long over. Some friends I've already written, but nobody
wants the poor Julius know more.

So I want to put the final plunge. I want to beggars way after a
stranger to trust me. Will the owner of that castle say that I was the
first whose glance Aug with Mr. Holden in this geschwelgt property,
and that I have nothing to my name than did those Bettelstab. Perhaps
that it the size of my unhappiness stems. Here comes the gardener
to me! but I want to ask. Second previous appearance. Gardener with a
watering can, he is phlegmatic and somewhat crude. Flottwell. Good
morning, gardeners (looks at him suspiciously). Good morning. (For
themselves.)

Must be but the big dog of the chain is released, because even as much
rabble always comes. Flottwell.

My dear friend, do you want to be good to tell me how your gnädger Mr. and
probably is how long this castle he owns? Gardener. You want him
probably ask for anything? Flottwell. I wish him to speak. Gärtner (for
themselves). Seems that he wants to steal something. (Laut.) It may
now be ohngefähr twelve years. (Excluding after) the Flottwell hats
constructed of wipes to England by. Since buying a count who died,
and then took our Lord, and is likely to retain his death.

Flottwell. Are you already long in his service? Gardener. Fairly long,
but yesterday he helped me personally abdicated - Flottwell. How dubs
it? Gardener (not significant). Mr Wolf - Flottwell. From wolf? From
the family I've never heard. Gardener. Yes ists with the family
not far away.

He was of the valet Flott Wells. Flottwell (quickly). My valet? (Holds
it.) Not yet - Gardener (makes big eyes). What do you a? (For that).
The man must not be OK? (Indicates to the brain.) Now wants the
scoundrel even a valet have. (Laut.) For Flottwell, says I, who died in
America. Flottwell. Because your Lord has probably a very large
inheritance done? Gardener. Nothing he has done! The Flottwell he ripped
through the efficient. As his wealth comes forth. He was so stupid and
has presented to him.

Did gehätschelt him, and then we took him and says brav ridiculed him
still in the no good after death. To go to the young Lord, the only vertun
and nothing can earn. Because they depend on all the flatterers, the
other people are not their equal, and if they need to be taken from
everything she laughs. (Is it tobacco.)

Will you take a pinch? Flottwell. Thank you! (After some reflection.) I
want to talk about it anyway! Gardeners. Now if your in a good mood it
will, maybe he gives you something. (Accesses in the sack.) I want you
to give a glass of brandy. Flottwell (mockingly). You're too good. I
am very attached to you. Gardener. Oh, look again! When a poor devil,
because you have to take every penny. But you will probably know best
how your using your cash is. Flottwell.

Thank you very much for your lessons. I am amazed, however, that your
so ungescheut everything from your Lord says. Gardener.

Previously, I would not say. Now, however, so I go in a few days
continued. Since I have nothing more on it! Flottwell. Tell me just
one more: Is Mr. Wolf in possession of this unjust Good happy?

(The door opens.) Gardener. Whether it is the most happy? Because
look at him and you convinced yourself Previous Third appearance. Wolf.
He is very aged, looks very ill, is dressed in fur and goes on a floor.
Three Serves with him. Flottwell (goes back). Heaven! I had not
recognized him. Wolf (his demeanor is very dark and sinnend). I've had
a bad night. The sun is coming to me tonight so bleak before. Gardener.
Gnädger Lord! It wants to be a poor man you are talking about. Flottwell.
You lie. I no longer bins. (For themselves.) In such close my mind
makes me rich. Wolf. It can not be poorer than I am. Where is he?
Flottwell (occurs). Flottwell he calls it. Wolf (goes together). Flottwell?
(Feel the page.) This has given me a stitch. The bad gout is still ruthless
than the humans. (For themselves.) He is still alive. And it comes
back?

To punish the sinner's heaven. Gardener. This is the rich Flottwell? Good
night, I will prefer to be gardeners. (Geht ab.) Wolf. Lord of Flottwell,
I feel very honored that you are your old servant still remember,
and regret only that my illness that I have been tormented for many
years, I am not allowed, my joy at your arrival so splendidly on
the day lay, when you could call me there.

Flottwell. I have nothing to ask, nothing more. What I have right to ask,
is me by a higher (looks against the sky) have become. I just wanted to
see the owner of my castle. Wolf (smiling). Yes, it is a very besondrer
coincidence. I have a true devotion to your house proved. The sky has
blessed me with a profit, but now I have suffered great losses. Forgive,
the doctor allowed me not to talk so much, I appreciate the honor of your
visit is greatly appreciated. (To the servant.) Led me out at that
prospect. But no! Back to the castle. Also do not understand. After the
garden. The garden is so beautiful. Only a pity that even the roses
wither away. (If, after thinking about.) How often will I still
see bloom? (Schauert.) Today is a cold day. Flottwell. It seems to
me the sun is warm. Wolf. I'm freezing.

Is it down into the village and calls the pious man, whom I now so happy
to have me. That he sent me a book of moral. I really like to hear moral
books. The world is not so bad, and it is his only consolation in the
future search. (Sneaks into the garden.) (The servants follow him.)
Flottwell (on the last of the servants). The gentleman is very ill! Is
he loved? Wishes him long life? Servant (shakes his head and says
gleichgiltig). He is a miserly felt that no one may suffer, and in a few
weeks will probably end with him to go. Adieu! (Follow the others in the
garden.)

Flottwell (looks against the sky and the hands together). Flott O Wells
Castle, home to what you have for people now! What should I start? The
few valleys that I still possessed, I have on my long walk to eat
moon. I've saved and dry bread, and yet I have not a penny more.

Here my old castle! (Looks after the ruin in the distance.) It is
a symbol of my jetzgen happiness zusammgestürzt. (He will remain with
folded arms are thinking.) Four previous appearance. Valentin, in civil
dress as master carpenter, a plane in a bag, comes trillernd. He has
dark gray hair. Valentin. When a carpenter gets up early, Tralalala -
(Looks Flottwell.) Look, look, there is a poor man, I must give him
something. (He takes a penny out of the bag and wants him Flottwell rich,
but he stutzt when he sees him.) Hey old man! (Flottwell turn against
him.) What is - I do not know this Gsicht - the Gsicht is known to me -
now i trust him almost groschen not to give - Flottwell. What do you
want? Valentin (still irritated). The voting - which is not? (He
trembles.)

You hear S'- that would be horrible Bitt for forgiveness! You know that
the castle? Flottwell (stirred). Whether I know it, friend? It was once
my property! Valentin (screams soon). Gnädger My Lord!

(A mixture of joy, amazement and nostalgia makes him tremble, he knows not
to take. Retrieve again.) Gnädger My Lord! (The tears are in his eyes,
he kissed his hand silently.) Flottwell. Who are you, friend? Valentin.
The Valentin. I know because Your grace never? Gsell The carpenter
who once worked for you and you have a servant, because he is so good you
gfallen has. Flottwell (good-natured). Valentine? the good honest
Valentin. And you still remember my? Valentin. Whether I can remember?
O God! Your graces were so good with me and gave me so much a gift.
A ducat, I have lifted me, (good-natured), but the others I have
all spent.

Flottwell. And are you well? Valentin. Nu mine! Wies halt a poor carpenter
can go. The country is not much to do. I am satisfied. Flottwell. Then
you're happy! Valentin. Nu, you take hold of, as long as God wills. But
your grace did not seem to me to be satisfied. Flottwell. Not true, I
am very changed? Valentin (embarrassed). Ah no! no! Your grace look
good - good - quite good. A bissel strained, but - (Beiseite.) This
can be such a yes Lord does not say. Flottwell. My good Valentin, now
I can no longer Treat yourself. Valentin. Treat?

Your graces are but now I no longer wish to Treat. Because I must
properly complete your graces coarseness do. (Holds it.) Bitt for
forgiveness! I sometimes red, as if I am planing hätt shadows in your
head. Since I am a carpenter again, I lost my whole polish. Flottwell
(for themselves). Should I discover it? Valentin (for themselves). I
trust him I do not have to ask. It seems to me that he is full of hunger.
Flottwell. Are you going home? Valentin. No! I will be in the inn over
the door zusammnageln because s' out of one yesterday, and since he is
a bissel they arrived at the door, and there is s' gets a jump. And then
I have school champion a new line have to do. It has s' to her husband
behind because they lined him sometimes.

Flottwell (struggling with him, sighs, takes on the forehead and then
says). Well so leb wohl! (Will go.) Valentin (keep). Where want to
because your graces? Your grace I will not run away again? Now I've only
had the honesty to see. (Beiseite.) When I only knew how I should
employ the thing?

Flottwell (sighs). What do you need? Valentin. Your grace to forgive - But
- Tell me Yours sincerely graces: His graces your already invited?
Flottwell (smiles). No, dear husband Valentin. Could I feel so free and
allowed me the Ehr ausbitten on an ancient cooking? Flottwell (stirred).
Thank you. Righteous man, let me come. Valentin. Nothing coming. Ah
beleib. I never run from your graces.

The door to their own zusammennageln. I have with my merciful Lord go
home now. Flottwell. So come! Valentin. But I say the same, so I can not
go on, once pointed at us (on Castle significant) is received - Ah -
(Beat is on foot.) Again a shadow plane discourse. Flottwell. I will
be satisfied with everything. Valentin. Nothing! No! Is not so bad, I
cook yourself Ah yes, we will have zusammnehmen, me and my old man.
Will even where a transferring Geflügelwerg find.

As long as the Valentine which has to be your Grace not perish. Now we
keep our collection. Ah, so can not run. Your grace must have an
award. I go ahead and come to your graces, and all my children have to
honor it, and how to enter your graces, must s' screaming that they
would like to shatter the breast: Vivat! our fathers should be Gracious
Lord live! Flottwell. Good Valentin. Valentin. This is a life in the
world!

(Flottwell goes arm in arm with him.) Fifth appearance transformation
carpenter desk. A plane bank. Carpenter tools hanging on the wall. Table
and chairs. Links a window. Law a side. Liese chases the Michael,
a poodle hat aufhat and books with a belt zusammengeschnürt, issued from
the Cabinet.

Hiesel sawed in the plane bank. Liesenfeld. Wait, you Spitzbub when the
mother gets home! I'll learn you nibble. No sooner he comes home, you
already Gall. Michael (crying). The mother has allowed me. Liese (the
tears Hiesel the saw out of the hands). Let stand, I say. If you are
what ruin the fathers. Hiesel. I work already as good as as the father.
(Hämmert.) (Pepi wants from the Cabinet herausgehn, but falls down
and cries.)

Liese. The highlights on boys! (It lifts him up, he still has the children
Röckchen, and presents it on the table.) Now he's not yet dressed. (She
prefers him to Kamisol.) Michael (she plucks at the dress). The key give
me that I can cancel my schoolbooks. Liesenfeld. Let me go, I have the
boys attraction. When the mother is coming! It's been eleven clock.
Hansel. Hiesel, come out, we rise up in Taubenkobel. Liese. No, if the
boys from the school to come home, not for sustaining ists. (Hiesel
hammers.) Do not hammer on? (A goose eats and runs inside.) Michael
(after the exit signs). The meat goes on. Liesenfeld (requires little
boys into the middle room, the screams). On the small boys give careful!
(Runs out.) Hansel (calls). Hiesel, Aussa go!

Previous sixth appearance. Valentin. Flottwell. Valentin. Stroll your
graces just come in! (Hansel from the window goes away.) Graces your
traps do not have the boys. Who has it since the middle of the room
hergesetzt? I ask for forgiveness, it is all in disarray. A clean
armchair! (Michael runs into the cabinet and brings a wooden chair.) Goose
chases after the addition! the plane shadow away! (Hiesel does. Valentine
to Michael.) Bring a cushion! (Michael runs away and stumbles.) Now, it
raises the Leimpfandel around. Gfallt How Your graces as the industry?
(Michael brings an upholstered bed.)

What do you do, would have brought even a Tuchet. (chases him away
with it. To Flottwell.) I would like to sit. Lieserl, where art thou?
Come here yet. All the children! (Liese, all children up to Hans.) Where
is the Hansel? Liesenfeld. He is already out there. Valentin (looks
through the window). Since I have the honor of my family listed.
One - two - three o'clock-four o'clock, and the fifth is sitting
on the Taubenkobel above. My wife will come home right after. The will
be a pleasure. Hansel! Come here quick. Hansel (domestic calls). I can
not get down so quickly! Valentin. So falling down. Now go forth as
children. As is in the circle around you!

(Hansel comes.) Then the Lord. This is my dear good Gracious Lord, which
I told you so much hab. The fathers have your hundred people and a
lot of good done. Go out and kissed him all the distributors. (The
kids are doing it. Meanwhile says) Hansel. Father, who looks even not
as a Gracious Lord. Valentin. Are breastfeeding. You're not a connoisseur.
What do you think of merciful than men. (Hansel doing it too.) Pepi.
Your grace, Pepi also hand kiss. Valentin. The youngest child of my
mood, your grace. Liese (embarrassed). Your Grace! Our Lord's father
gave us the way a lot of good, love and beauty of your grace I said
that we are quite happy to know Your grace. Flottwell. God! (The fall
of pain and shame overwhelmed in the chair and cloaked with both
hands, the face.)

Liese (softly). Father, the Lord regretted me. Even the poor must go!
Valentin (well). Tute nothing, we are already talking about it! (Liese
geht ab.) Gehts now, children who go a little further into the yard. (For
Hiesel.)

You find yourself outside the fattest ducks in order. (To Michael.) And
you're looking for your mother. You should come home immediately
after. (Children from). My God, the children who know nothing of the
world. (Seufzt.) Yes yes! His graces your not so upset. I did not even
too much. But your grace I shall not perish.

But tell me your graces but once, as is so because the disaster came?
Flottwell. I lived through eight years with my precious wife to me in
London had a son born, very happy. However, on a trip to South
America, from which they sought to hold me in vain, as if it had
my accident geahnet, snatched me death both. I went back to London,
looking for distraction.

My expenses rose. I let myself in great speculation, which I only fame,
but could not bring profit, and after several years I saw my assets up
to a small residual melts. Now I was scared, I decided to return to my
homeland, with the fixed intent, I am restricted in every respect.
I came to Germany - was an unfortunate idea Wiesbaden visit me. Here
was the limit of my recklessness.

After twenty years, I played again in the hope to increase my assets, I
won, continuing to play and lost everything. Everything. Had to leave
behind my wardrobe, and with twenty dollars, the long journey to my
beloved homeland, where I am with irresistible force moved on foot,
and so I am now destitute beggars. Valentin.

This is indeed a sad story, but it is necessary to stop that s' experience.
But forgive me Your grace, your graces but a bissel be your own
fault.

It sends itself does not mean that I say. But a gentleman who is so
dagestanden as your grace - It is to Totärgern - I can not help
me, I hold the red, as ichs think.

Flottwell. You're right. Oh, now, all warnings of my soul, I am from the
pride and high spirits spurned, Cheristane and the gruesome picture
of mysterious beggar that made me such a long time and has its
origin, I will probably never unravel.

Valentin. Now his only calms your graces. As I've said. Everything in
my power. Have your graces only the Gnad and walk your graces allergnädigst
Meanwhile in the other room inside that we were a little bit
together can recognize.

Only thus, he said, would he, or could he, perform the task
upon whose issue the completion of Golden Star's life on earth, if it
was ever to be completed, depended.

He told us plainly that a single interruption should be fatal to her and
all our hopes. But I can not ensure that someone else has come to even
greater promises made and the palace to ten thousand guilders probably
Feiler builds. Plinth. But this is a wretched man, who did not understand
to build. A polishing hergelaufener Maurer, a bungler, and I am a man on
the court. Understood? Wolf. It makes you very much honored that you
are so angry about your colleagues, but that can only worsen the
situation! Base. But you get a yes to despair. (Beiseite.) I can not
miss the building, it bears much a me.

(Power against the public pantomime of counting money.)
Understood? (Laut.) Dear Mr. valet, I know it depends only on you.
The gracious Lord grieved not matter that he is too reckless. I'll give
you one thousand guilders coin convention. Wolf. Sir, - What to catch
you - plinth. I underpinning me, you have five hundred guilders to
offer. Wolf. Yes you are piling insult on insult - plinth. Admittedly,
I'm the most brutal guy in the world. But now I have it in my rudeness,
I still have to indicate five hundred guilders. Wolf. Hold it! You
disgust me with such immoral impositions! Socket (aside). Ah, because
you want to decapitate himself.

Wolf. I see that, your honor - plinth. Oh what glory! There is no shame
in a linearly, if you build a castle, but can fire s' belonging to a
not so golden. (Beiseite.) Only the money is lost! Wolf. You will
laugh at you! Base. Admittedly, it hats the whole city. Wolf. How was
this possible? Base. Because my wife said ichs hab. Wolf. Yes because
you are married? Base. Unfortunately! Understood? Wolf (timidly).

May have children! Base. Yep. Wolf. Oh, that's just very sad. How many?
Base. My God, as much as you want, give me just the construction. Wolf.
Yes, I know. Plinth. Five, and two yet to be expected! Understood?
Wolf. Dreadful! The move me! Base. Let soften. Take the two thousand
guilders. Wolf (with regret). They are family man! They have five
children! Why did you not say? And the other builders may have no children.
Plinth. Not a single one. Wolf. Ah, yes because you need to get the
construction. That would be the highest injustice. Plinth. You edelmütger
O man! Wolf.

Now I can accept your gift. But you must promise me, a masterpiece
for the ages this place - the socket. Ten years of no repair - Wolf.
Because of the advantage rule is my gnädgen me about everything. Socket
(weeping). Great soul! (Both in Flott Wells from Cabinet.) Sixth
appearance Valentin. Valentin. Heissa funny song without worries Leb I
enter into the day, nobody needs me something to borrow, Schön ists, a
servant z program. "First, I am grown zart As the most beautiful man
in the world, all bags I fully Maxen, What the girls do so.

Secondly, I can endure a lot, wrote a sense lampelfrommen, From mind I
will say nothing, because I'm too modest. Thirdly, I can sing beautifully,
My voice is so, because I hardly let them ring out, running s' all equal
out. Fourth, I can write, read, possessions of computing a track,
I'm a carpenter Gsell been - And a man of polish. Fifth, Sixth,
siebntens , Fall eighthly really nothing more, why should I
believe, too, the song end. Ah! Today I can say once: Morgenstund
wear gold in your mouth.

Did me the singer, the other day at our concert aria sung a Chinese has,
for the fee, which I received from the merciful Lord have brought on
two bare Ducats gift. The gracious Lord has it but also for a single
aria fifty ducats pay. This is a nice money. But this is nothing
against England. In London, listen, I sing because s' even after
the weight. Here comes one of the big notes on a whole pound, so it is
s' and the pound notes. Because merits a single evening to a few cent.
The couple have always been a horse, that they lead after the fee.

But it was something to this divine singer. I understand but some of the
music, because in my youth I often referred to the notes I have been
thrashed, but it comes in Distonieren no equal. I've got the whole
aria can not hear because I was in the courtyard below and the dog
calms hab so that s' is not as strong dreingeheult, but once it has
left out a scream - No, I have several rooms woman screaming ghört,
but this tone has shaken my insides.

But the most melodious sound, it was only shown as the two ducats
thrown on the table, which makes them immortal.

And if I am a theater director about: the engagieret I among the finest
conditions. (Rosa sneaks in, occurs slowly and is at the last words with
verscblungenen arms beside him.) And she smiled at me - she smiled -
Rosa.

Well, and how did they smile? (Smiles maliciously.) How? Did she smiled
so - so? Valentin. Ah, stop it! That is just a travesty to their smile.
You will not you imagine that you're also able?

Rosa. Why? Why is it better than I can laugh? Valentin. Well, a person
responsible for an aria gets fifty ducats, which is strange but you can
laugh? Rosa.

Yes, but who laughs last, laughs best, and they will I be. I need no lover
of the city and the theater hineinlauft princesses makes the Cour.
Valentin. I must do what my Lord commands it. Period! Rosa. You and your
Lord is like the others. Valentin. Nu me about the law, I would be a
millionaire like him. Rosa. You have your amour in the town, and he s'
in the forest of it. And how look out for? The whole day you have to
correct him! Is there a scarf tied loosely you human? Go forth!

(Puts it to him.) Valentin. To listen to you strangle me, yes, I'm not
so cords together! Rosa. That must be his. Valentin. No, the cord is
very unhealthy. It is now completely out of the mod come. Do you
also not so zusammradeln. Rosa. That is not what people! Valentin.
But well! The hätt cords should be banned in court, but the landlord,
however eingekommen. Rosa. Because my! Apropos Yes, yes you are standing
there, as when a public holiday today wär? Will the same attraction and
you go on the hunt! Valentin. Now I must return to the stinkin 'game.
Rosa.

Yes who can ensure that you have such a good hunter you? Valentin.
Ah, I do not jag ja, ich werd ja hunted. They treat me like not even a
hunter. I ghör yes under the Wildpret. The last of the gracious Lord
has a wild duck shot, and because no hound was at hand, so I must
fetch the water, and as I was the middle of it, they have never let me.
Rosa. And so you let everything gfallen?

Valentin. Yes because I hold to my Lord in the fire go, go, I stop
for him into the water. Rosa. Nu Tummel dich so, it will begin immediately.
Valentin. The confoundedly hunting! When you just do not würd so hungry,
but I assure you: A hunter and a dog eats all district students.
Rosa. But shame on you! Valentin.

You do not know what you auszustehen has. What the guests do everything.
My soul, if I can not because the Lord would be merciful, I flogged
them all together. Rosa.

So the red but not always from the beat in an elegant house. As you
can see immediately that you're grown up under the wood. Valentin.
Cast me not always stand before my carpenter.

Rosa. Because you're not so pfostenmäßig. Valentin. Do not swear on my
profession. Rosa. Let me go. I take me another.

I know who I am marriage. Duett Rosa. A locksmith is my weak since, this
is the first man who ensures our safety and to smite the castles. Valentin.
My child, because you're a bad report, The carpenter comes before,
the locksmith is not the first, the carpenter makes the gate.

Rosa. A locksmith is too black for me and his love is too hot. Valentin.
Love is a hairdresser in the making you only what you know.

Rosa. No! no! a turner! o how beautiful! This is done for me. Valentin.
The nose can give you a drehn, As you take in eight. Rosa. A Bäck, which
is too solid, I'm afraid that I härm. Valentin. So take a coppersmith,
The smite a right noise. Rosa. With a cutter, in fact, it's glorious
I draus Valentin. But if he has no customers, Sun is the twine him.

Rosa. A safer Klampfrer is a man, the missing never to plate. Valentin.
I advise you to a cobbler halt Wegner It is bad luck. Rosa. A Hutrer
would probably not be risked, The has a safer asset.

Valentin. Yes if the world loses its head, since humans do not need
a hat. Rosa. A speculator, oh what glory - hätt But I hardly dare. Valentin.
Ah, if he makes smart Krida, Da gehts him only fairly well. Rosa. In
short, I wend forgiveness in a circle around my eye. So I have to return
to the carpenter, He is my only happiness. Valentin. You rely on the
young carpenter, makes the grief And you do not get lucky once a
jump, the carpenters glued together. Both. A beautiful venue is yet to
Ehr A man wackrer craft. Seis tailor, shoemaker, seis hairdresser,
I offer the glass to him. (Both from.) Seventh appearance helmet, in
hunting dress, steps out of his Cabinet. Wolf from Wells Flott
rooms. Helmet. Now, how is Mr. valet, soon gehts los? Wolf (very busy).
Yep, the same gnädge Lord will appear. (Runs to the window.) Heda,
hunters, let's hear you! Pagenberg, the horses! Rifle Tensioners quickly
up!

(One hears hunting horns.) Helmet. Holla, holla, hurtig, gentlemen!
comes out, goes to the dance.

(Several guests come to the middle part, and partly out of the side doors,
also Pralling. Valentin. jagdmäßig All are dressed.) Pralling.

Good morning everyone! All (other). Good morning! Did you sleep
well? Helmet. Potz gosh, it was a bad night! Pralling. My sleep is like
a dissolute servant, if I call him, he is not. Helmet. He is a free
man, and comes only when he wants. Walter. A coquette is he who
adorns before they embraced us. Previous Eighth appearance. Chevalier
Dumont hunting in an elegant suit. Dumont (looks through a simple
lorgnette). Ah bon jour, mes amis! (He speaks broken German.) Geschlafen
How Did You All. Ah, our natural friend! Dumont. Yes, Messieurs,
nature's great. Ick aben geschwelgt again in her charms. The whole
night I ick at the window located to the area to be considered.
O charming! Previous ninth appearance. Flottwell. Socket. Flottwell.
Good morning, noble friends! All. Good morning! (Some shake his hand.)
Flottwell. We arrive late for hunting. I hope that the gentlemen,
tonight for the first time in my castle rested, with the operation
were so happy, as always eager ichs only wish for.

Would have it, I sleep with sweet dreams also entertained, but unfortunately
not stand in my pay. A guest. I have dreamed of lilies. Helmet. And to
me by a wild sow, which I've given the Fang. Walter. I have the hospitality
at a golden table saw and German laurel has adorned her head. Pralling.
I have all my luck on the Coeur-Dame, and when I had lost it, I
woke up. Flottwell. And what did you dream, friend Valentine? Valentin.
I have dreamed that your grace had me four ducats a gift. Flottwell
(laughing).

This is a eigennützger dream, but I want to meet him. Valentin. I Küss
graces your hand. Flottwell. What I dreamed of, can I have not yet
discovered. It was a sweet dream, ready to service my highest desire,
he gave me my life reflected a rosy future. Helmet. You certainly have
dreamed of a rendezvous.

Spitzbub! What? From eyes like ruby and such stupid Zeuch. Flottwell
(laughing). You may have guessed something, heart brother. It is a
rendezvous for the whole life.

But still like this, my heart is wanton tonight, it could reveal.
Pralling. We already know your tricks, you have other hunting in mind
than we do. Flottwell. So it is. Jagt your friends to see me you do not
need to worry about. We have a passion for each other. Pralling. I suffer
from the gout. Helmet. I am a passionate hunter. Walter. I'm talking
about the champagne. Dumont. And ick bewundre nature. Helmet. That
takes me wonder Chevalier. They are so shortsighted. Dumont. These are
all human. Pralling. And if you drive, you sleep in the car. Dumont.
O, the Macken nothing. A true nature lover have her beauty even in your
sleep can admire. Helmet. I can not. My favorite is the hunt. Flottwell.
Heda! Bordeaux takes us. The gentlemen will be amazed. Dumont. Mackt me
the windows on that ick can view the landscape. (Looks through the
glass.) Wolf. Here is Bordeaux! (He ordered the servants who were already
prepared and filled him in on stem glasses silver cups present.)

Walter (calls). Wonderful Wine! Dumont (delightedly calling out the
window). Heavenly waterfall! Flottwell (swings the glass). On ewge
friendship and long life, my gentlemen, all. The rich Flottwell live
long! Dumont (as before, without a glass to have taken). Ha! the
churchyard there Macken good. Flottwell. Oh, would I have rich! I only
wish it to be my treasures with the world to share. What is the
mammon too!

the money is far too much attention. Drum ists so proud. There will
never be the poor man's pocket and streams remain always only the rich
again. Helm (enthusiasmiert). Who is as good as our noble Flottwell here?
Walter. I know of no mind to his equals. All. Yep! Dumont. Un enfant
de la nature gate. Flottwell. Oh, do not praise me too much. I have no
merit as my father's gold. Will the world verzeihn me, ists well and good,
and does not Sies, like themselves with their envy resign. I fight not
with him. My happiness is bold, it calls me out, so I want my life
großartig enjoy and want to visit me worry, let me deny. Badlands
philosophers I think not. Not true, friend helmet, you must save the lives
of the beautiful page sum? The sky is its magnificent icon. The glühnde
hot sun like the fire of love, the moon mildgesinnte of intimate friendship,
the rich seed of the stars is a picture of the millions of joys in the
life germinate. The clouds are indeed serious kummer full days, but
is a flüchtger Frohsinn wind, which they chased. Plinth. A god man! A
true god man! Understood! Flottwell. Give a glass but also our brave
builders. Oh, that's even a man wichtger here, gentlemen, will lock us
a new build, and these halls of time we are no longer denied. Wells
House solls Flott called, nor a glass to honor this man's work! (At its
base, harsh.) Drink! Socket (appalled that he lets fall the glass).
Understood! All (swinging the glasses). Flott Wells House! Lang solls
bestehn! Flottwell (crashes into a glass). And now for the hunt, your
gentlemen yard the glasses back and take 's gun hand!
'Conditions!' said he, bringing his dark brows down till they made a
straight black line over his eyes. 'What are they?'

[Illustration: The dagger-point dropped till it was within an inch of
Golden Star's breast.

_To face page 119._]

'These,' I said. 'You love and I love. First, then, you must win the
love of Golden Star, and, secondly, you must give me your sister, Joyful
Star, if I can win her love.'

'My sister Ruth to _you_! Is that your earnest, Vilcaroya, or are you
only trying my patience?'

The bitter, coldly-spoken words cut into my soul as the lash of a whip
cuts into the flesh. I could have slain him as he sat there sneering at
me, but it was a time for words, not deeds; and so, mastering my anger
as best I could, I took two swift strides to Golden Star's bedside, and,
snatching my dagger out of the sheath of the belt which I had put on
when I had dressed, I turned and faced him, and said,--

'I am not jesting. Junius) was after the "Melanide" of de la Chaussée
"The Man of the clock, or the ordinary man" gespielet. The author of
this piece is Mr. Hippel, in Gdansk. It is full of funny ideas, just a
pity that every one, as soon as he hears the title, all of these ideas
is provided. National is also sufficient, or rather provincial. And this
could easily be the other Extremum in our comic poet disrepair,
if they truly wanted to portray German morals.

I fear that the poor habits of each of the angle in which he was
born, for the actual customs of the Fatherland should hold. But to whom
is it to know how many times in the year because you or green cabbage
eats? A comedy can have a dual title, but understood that everyone has
something different to say. Here it is not, "The Man of the clock,"
or "Ordinary Man" say quite the same, except that the first ohngefähr
the caricature of the other is. The thirtieth evening (Thursday, 4
Junius) was the " Earl of Essex, "by Thomas Corneille, to run. This
tragedy is almost the only one which comes from the significant
number of the pieces of the younger Corneille on the theater has
received.

And I think it is on the German stage repeats more often than the French.
It is from the year 1678, after forty years previously Calprenède
the same story was handled. "It is certainly", Corneille wrote, "that
the Earl of Essex to the Queen Elizabeth in particular graces
confessed.

He was naturally very proud.

The services, which England had done it, blew it yet more. His enemies
accused him an understanding with the earl of Tyrone, which the
rebels in Ireland on her head had erwählet.

The suspicion of dieserwegen stayed with him, brought him to the command
of the army. He was fierce, came to London, wiegelte to the people,
was pulled in arresting, convicted, and after he does not want to ask for
mercy, 25 Feb 1601 beheaded. So much has given me the history of the
hand where.

When I was but a burden submit that I have in one important pieces to
it, because I was the incident with the rings not bedienet the Queen to
the Earl pledge their infallible pardon, if he was ever a state crime
guilty should be given to you: so this must me very alienating.

I am assured that this ring is an invention of the Calprenède is, at
least I have not the slightest story writer of them read. "However, it
was free Corneille, that fact with the use of rings or not to use,
but it went too far, that he had it for a poetic invention said. Its
historical accuracy is almost beyond doubt recently been set, and
the cautious, skeptical historians, Hume and Robertson, have him
in their works included.

If Robertson in his History of Scotland from the melancholy talk, in which
Elisabeth lapsed before her death, so he says: "The common opinion that
time, and perhaps this was the most probable, that this evil from
a saddened remorse because of the Earl of Essex had arisen.

She had a quite extraordinary respect for the memory of this unfortunate
Lord, and though they often have his tenacity sued, so they called his
name seldom without tears. Shortly before, an incident which bear their
propensity busy with a new tenderness and distress yet more denatured.
The Countess of Nottingham, on their Todbette was wished the Queen to see
and it is a secret to reveal, not conceal his calm would die. As the
Queen came to her room, told her the countess, Essex had, after his
death sentence had been spoken, wished the Queen to ask for forgiveness,
and on the nature, the majesty Ihro him even once prescribed.

He gave it to the ring of charge want it to him at the time of grace, a
gift with the insurance that if it it the same, with a etwanigen
accidents, as would send a sign, he graces their total insured should
turn. Lady Scroop was the person through which he had sent to it by a
mistake but he was not in the Lady Scroop, but in their hands.

They have their husband told the cause (he was one of the implacable enemy
of Essex), and had forbidden her, the ring, neither the queen nor to
give the Count returned. As the Countess of Queen had discovered
her secret, she asked for forgiveness the same; Elisabeth alone, now
both the malice of the enemies of the count, as their own injustice einsahe
that using it in a suspected irrepressible waywardness had replied: "God
likes forgive you and I may never! " She left the room in great horror,
and the moments of their spirits sank completely. She took neither
food nor drink to that, they refused to Arzeneien all, they came
not in bed, they stayed ten days and ten nights on a cushion, without
a word to speak, sit in thought, one finger in the mouth, with open,
on the ground beaten eyes, until finally, by internal fear of the
souls, and so long entirely invalidate fasting, the spirit of
abandon.

"Twenty-third piece of the 17th Julius 1767 The Lord of Voltaire has the"
Essex "in a strange way criticized. I would not argue against him that
"Essex" an exquisite piece was good, but it is easy to prove that
many of the errors which he is chides, sometimes it does not find some
little things are insignificant, which in turn is not the correct
term and worthiest of the tragedy into action. It is one among the
weaknesses of the Lord of Voltaire, that he is a very profound
Historikus be.

He swung so even at the "Essex" on this Streitroß and his enormous
tummelte it around. a pity that all the deeds which he performed it, the
dust are not worth that he aroused. Thomas Corneille has him by the
English history is little known, and the fortunes of the poet was then
still ignorant audience. "Itzt ", he says," we know the Queen Elizabeth
and the Earl Essex better; itzt would like a poet gross repudiation
against the historical truth aufgemutzet be sharper.

"And what are because of this breach?

Voltaire has calculated that the Queen was, as Count them to make
the process had sixty-eight years old.

"It would be ridiculous," he says, "if one wanted to imagine that the
love of the lowest portion of this incident could have had." Why? done
nothing ridiculous in the world?

It is somewhat ridiculous as thinking happen, is this so ridiculous?
"After the verdict on the Essex was delivered," says Hume, "was the
queen of extreme turmoil and uncertainty in the cruelest. Revenge and
affection, pride and pity, concern for their own safety and Bekümmernis
to the life of her favorite strove ceaselessly in her, and perhaps that
in this agonizing condition was more to lament than Essex himself
signed and you cancel the command his execution once on the other;
itzt she was almost determined to him to transmit the death, the moment
it woke her up a new tenderness, and he should live.

The enemies of the Count were not out of sight, they made it before,
that he even death wish that he himself had Expound to how they
are otherwise no peace in front of him would have.

Wahrscheinlicherweise did this expression of remorse and respect for the
safety of the Queen, the Count LY prefer his death would attach a
totally different effect than that which his enemies had promised.
They simplified the fire of an old passion, which they so long for
the unfortunate prisoners genähret had again.

What but their hearts hardened against him, was the supposed obstinacy,
not to ask for mercy. Versahe It is this step of him every hour,
and only from annoyances that he would not take place, they had the
rights finally its course. "Why should not Elisabeth still in its eighth
years have loved, she who was so fond of love? you who are so very
flattered when their beauty praised?

you, it probably started when their chain to wear seemed? The world has
no pieces in this vain woman ever have seen. Their courtiers were thus
all in love with her and served against Ihro Majesty, with every
appearance of seriousness, the style of gallantry ridiculous.

As Raleigh was in disgrace, wrote He called upon his friend Cecil a letter,
without a doubt that he should show him where his queen a Venus, a
Diane, and I do not know what was. However, this goddess was already
sixty years old. Five year later led Heinrich Union, their emissary
in France, the same language with her.

In short, Corneille is sufficiently berechtiget been you all the love
weakness accompanied by his gentle woman with the proud queen in such a
dispute bring interesting. Nor has he the character of Essex
verstellet or verfälschet. "Essex," says Voltaire, "was not the hero,
which makes him Corneille: he has never done so little weird." But if
he was not, as he believes it to be. The destruction of the Spanish
fleet, the conquest of Cadiz, on the Voltaire him little or no part of
it, he gave so much of his work that he does not want to suffer
when someone is the least honor them anmaßte.

He offered to it with the sword in his hand against the Earl of Nottingham,
under which he had commanded, against his son, against every one of his
kinsmen to prove that she alone accessories. Corneille is the Counts
of his enemies, including of Raleigh, by Cecil, from Cobhan, speak
very scornful. Voltaire also wants not endorse. "It is not
allowed," he says, "a new story so as to grossly distort, and men of
such noble birth, of so great merit, so unworthy to abuse."

Ways; the point here, but it's not at all depends on what these men
were, but what they gave Essex, and Essex was on its own merits proud
enough to give them completely and no rights. If the Corneille Essex
can say that it is only in his will gemangelt, the throne itself
to climb, so it he certainly say something, what is still far from
the truth was.

But Voltaire would not cry about them. "How? Essex on the throne? With
what right? Under what pretext? As would have been possible?" Indeed,
Voltaire would have to remember that Essex maternal side of the royal
house descended, and that it is really a supporter of him, who were
imprudent enough, among those with him to include the rights to the
crown could make. When he, therefore, with the kings of Scotland in
Jakob secret sub action came, he let it be the first, to assure him
that he himself ambitious ideas like never had. What he is rejecting
here is not much less than what he can presuppose Corneille. By
Voltaire So through the whole piece is nothing but historical
inaccuracies there, committing himself not insignificant.

Over one has Walpole [1] have made merry.

If Voltaire is the first favorite of Queen Elizabeth wants to call, so
he called the Robert Dudley and the Earl of Leicester.

He did not know that both were only one person, and that one with just
the right Arouet the poet and the Chamber of Mr. Voltaire to two different
people could make. Equally unforgivable is the Hysteronproteron in which
he forfeited to the slap in the face of the Queen The Essex was. It is
wrong that he had it after his unfortunate expedition to Ireland was,
he had long before given, and there is so little true that he
was the wrath of the Queen by the slightest humiliation sought to placate
it much more on the liveliest and noblest kind of verbally and in writing
about his sensitivity ausließ. He did his pardon will not return to
the first step, the Queen had to do it. But what I am here is the
historical ignorance of the Lord of Voltaire to?

Neither than the historical ignorance of Corneille would be acceptable.
And actually I will just accept this against him. The whole tragedy of
Corneille was a novel: if it is touching, it is less pathetic, because
the poet is the true name has bedienet? Why elect the tragic poets real
name? If his characters from that name, or he takes this name because
the characters, the story of what they bat, with the characters,
plot in which he set out to show, more or less have equality?

I am not talking about the kind, like most tragedies might have, but how
they should arise. Or to talk with the habitual praxi the poet
consistent way: it's the bare facts, the circumstances of the time and
place, or is it the characters of persons, by which the facts have
become really, why the poet rather than another such incident wählet?
If the characters are, the question immediately decided how much the
poet of the historical truth can come off? In particular, what the
characters are not concerned, as far as he wants. Only the characters
are sacred to him, to strengthen them in their best light to show
that everything which he may add it with him, the slightest change
would be the major cause of repeal, why these and not other names,
and nothing is more offensive than what we can give no reason. ----
footnote [1] "Le Château d'Otrante" Pref. p.

XIV ---- Twenty-fourth piece of footnote 21 Julius 1767 When the character
of Elisabeth of Corneille, the poetic ideal of the true character is
that the history of the Queen of that name bat, and if we include its
Unentschlüssigkeit, the contradictions, the scary, the penitence, the
despair, in a proud and gentle heart, such as the heart of Elizabeth, I
will not say in these circumstances and those really in ruins, but
also to be forfeited only suggest using real paints can be found:
so the poet has done all he as a poet responsibility to do so.

His work with the chronology in the hand, investigate, judge him before
the chair of the history leading to it because every date, every casual
mention of such persons is also about what the story itself is in
doubt, with certificates to prove: called him and denied his
profession, which means that you disregard this can not be trusted
with a word, to harass.

While in the Lord of Voltaire could be neither easy nor chicane his
misjudgment. Indeed, Voltaire is himself a tragic poet, and ohnstreitig
a far larger, than the younger Corneille. It would be because that is
a master in his art and yet incorrect notions of art might have.
And as far as the chicane, which is how the whole world knows, his work
is not at all.

What it in his writings here and there a similar view, is nothing
more than whim, from a mere whim, he plays now and then in the poetics
Historikus in the history of the philosophers and the philosophy of
the funny head. If they know nothing, that Elisabeth sixty-eight years
old when she was the head count? In the eighth was still in love,
still jealous! The big nose of Elizabeth, are used, what funny ideas
must give! Admittedly, these funny ideas in the comments about a tragedy,
so there, where they do not belong.

The poet would have been quite to his commentator to say: "My Lord
note-maker, these belong in your Schwänke general history, not my text.
Because it is wrong, that my Elizabeth sixty-eight years old. development,
but to me, where I say that.

What is in my pieces, which prevented you, they are not about the Essex
of the same age to be? You say: It was not the same Age: What you?
Elizabeth Eure in Rapin de Thoyras; it can be. But why did you do the de
Rapin Thoyras read? Why are you so taught why your mixes this with my
Elizabeth? you seriously believe that the memory in which and that
viewers of the Rapin de Thoyras also once read, will be livelier
than the sensual impression that a well-educated actress in her
best years to him?

He sees my Elizabeth, and his own eyes to convince him that it not your
achtundsechzigjährige Elisabeth is. Or is he the de Rapin Thoyras
longer believe, as his own eyes? "- Sun might also be about the poet on
the role of Essex explain."

Euer Essex in Rapin de Thoyras, "he could say , "is only the
embryo of the mine. What are those on his eyes, I really.
What those under happy circumstances, for the queen, perhaps would
have done, I have done. your sounds so that he himself admitted, the
Queen is ; do you want my Queen does not believe as much as the de
Rapin Thoyras? My Essex is a well-deserved and great, but the proud and
unbiegsamer your man was in fact neither so large nor so unbiegsam: the
worse for him.

Enough for me that he is still tall and unbiegsam enough to he deducted
from my words to leave his name. "In short, the tragedy is not
dialogierte history and the history of the tragedy is nothing but a
repertory of names with which we some characters are used to connect.
Does the poet in the history of several circumstances for decoration
and customization of its substance comfortable: well, then do it.

Only that he was there just an achievement, as the counter-parts do a
crime! From this point of the historical truth settled, I am ready, the
rest of the ruling lord of Voltaire to sign. "Essex" is a mediocre
piece, both in consideration of the plot as the style.

Count to a sighing lover Irton one to make him more out of desperation
that he can not be theirs, as a noble from Stolze, not excuses and
requests to herabzulassen on the scaffold to lead: it was the
unfortunate incidence, the Thomas could only have, but he as a
wealthy Frenchman had.

The style is in the basic weak language in the translation, he
is often become rambling. But all the piece is not without interest, and
has here and there happy verses, but the French are happier than the
Germans. "The Actor", the Lord of Voltaire added, "particularly in the
province, playing the role of Essex even like, because they live in an
embroidered band under the knee and with a large blue band on the
shoulder it may appear.

The Count is a hero of the first class, the envy: to make the impression.
Incidentally, the number of tragedies in good all nations in the world
so small that those who are not quite bad, still attract viewers
if they are only good actor aufgestutzet be.

"He bestätiget this general ruling by various individual observations
that are as accurate as a sagacious and whose you are, perhaps, in a
repeated presentation, should remember with pleasure.

I share the finest So here, in the firm conviction that the criticism
does not harm the enjoyment and that those who are on a piece of
solid sharpening have learned to judge, are always those which
the Theater am diligent visit. "The role of the Cecil is a supporting
role, and a very minor role frosty. Such creeping flatterer to paint,
watch the colors in its violence, with which the Racine Narcissus
stories.

The Duchess of alleged Irton is a rational, virtuous woman, who through
their love to which neither the disgraced Earl of Elisabeth tighten
still want to marry her lover. This character would be very nice if he
would have more life, and if he Verwickelung something to contribute, but
here it represents merely the body of a friend.

That is for The theater is not sufficient. dünket me that everything
that the people in this tragedy, say and do, still very schielend,
verwirret and indefinite. The act must be clear of knots and each
understandable attitude and obviously his plan: these are the first,
most basic rules.

But what does Essex? What will Elisabeth? What is the crime of the
Count? Is he guilty or is he falsely accused? him if the Queen holds
for innocent, it must accept his. If he is guilty : it is very unreasonable,
the confidante to say that he never will ask for mercy that he had
a lot to be proud about this.

This pride is getting very well for a virtuous innocent hero, but for
no man, of high treason had . He should submit: the queen said. Is this
perhaps the real spirit, they must have, if she loves him?

If he is now subjected, if he has accepted their forgiveness is a matter
of Elizabeth loved him more than before? I love him a hundred times
more than myself: says the Queen. Ah, Madame, if it so far has come
with you, if your passion has become so severe so you can investigate
the allegations of your Gebliebten themselves and verstatten not that
him his enemies under your name under it and press it through the
whole piece, though without reason, says.

Even from the Friends of the count, the Salisbury, you can not be wise if
he guilty or innocent holds . He represents the Queen, that the betriege
often seems that everything from the partiality and injustice of his
judges had to pay. Nevertheless, he takes refuge on his grace the Queen.
What had he made this necessary, if his friend is not believed to prosecution
?

But what should the audience believe? The white nor what he and the
conspiracy of the count, as what he was with the tenderness of the Queen
against him is. Salisbury says the Queen, that the signature of the
count after made. But the Queen is is not the slightest idea, such an
important factor to investigate.

However, she was a queen and as a lover to connected. You do not even
respond to this opening, they would eagerly take them. You just replied
in other words, that the Graf was too proud, and that she wanted to
be, he should ask for mercy.

"But why should he ask for mercy when his signature was fake?" Twenty-fifth
piece of the 24th Julius 1767 "Essex himself asserts his innocence,
but why will he would rather die than the queen convince? His enemies
have slandered him, he can with a single word to the floor beat, and
he does not.

Is that the character of a man under so proud?

If he made love to Irton so absurd act: as the poet would have it through
the entire piece of his passion more bemeistert show them. The
severity of the emotion can excuse everything, but in this violence, we
see him not.

The pride of Queen argue incessantly with the pride of Essex; such
disputes can be easily dropped. But if all this pride they can act, he
is in Elizabeth than in both the Count, mere stubbornness. He should
ask me for mercy, I will not ask for mercy, which is the eternal lyre.
The viewer must remember that Elisabeth abgeschmackt either very
or extremely unfair if it requires that the count is a crime should
be forgiven, which he has not committed, or it has not been studied.

He must forget it, and he forgets it really to get just the attitudes
of pride to employ the human heart is so flattering. In a word: no
role of this tragedy is what it should be, and all are misguided; and
although it has fallen.

The people had
no leader save a man who had been himself a tyrant before, and none
trusted him, but looked to him only to serve their own ends. Those who
had the power were hated, and those who sought to seize it were
distrusted.

But better than all was the utter, and, as far as all men, save
ourselves, could see, the hopeless poverty of the country. Long years of
plundering had emptied the treasury. Commerce was leaving the shores,
and industries were languishing throughout the land. No man trusted his
neighbour, for nearly all were in debt, and none could get paid, and my
own people, the slaves of the children of the Spaniards, and the sport
of their blind and brutal jesting, had borne their heavy burdens till
their backs were sore, sore as their patient hearts were, and they would
bear them no longer.

From the country which is called Ecuador, and which in my other life had
been Quito, the kingdom of Atahuallpa, to the southern confines of
Bolivia, which had once been part of the Land of the Four Regions, the
dominions of my own father, all were ready to throw down their
long-borne burdens and turn and rend their oppressors and those whose
fathers had robbed them of the land that had once been theirs.

I well remember the very words in which Francis Hartness told me all
this at much greater length than I have set it down here; and this is
what he said when, as the stars were paling in the sky above us and the
eastern mountains were beginning to stand out sharply against the
growing light of the coming dawn, our long talk drew to its close,--

'In short, Vilcaroya, if I were given to that sort of thing, I could
believe that the very Fates themselves had conspired to prepare the way
for you. You have come back to the world and to your own country at the
very moment that these miserable wretches are getting ready to tear each
other to pieces. The government is as hopeless as it is impossible, and
the popular party, as they call themselves, have neither a leader that
they can trust, nor money to buy weapons and pay their soldiers with.
The treasury is empty, for, so to speak, almost the last dollar had been
stolen. The native troops have had no regular pay for months, and I
believe they would desert to a regiment if they once believed that you
are what you are, and that you possess, as you do, the means of paying
them well and honestly for their help.

There is the poorest man in the other far too rich. The fate of the plane
continues to hobelt And s' both the same. The youth will always stop
with Gwalt In all be happy, but you will only bissel old, Since you
find itself Dreiner . bickers Often my wife with me, oh Graus! This
brings me not in anger. Since knocking me from my plane and thought you
buzz me well. Displays the death once plucks And forgive me: Brüderle,
grief! As I make I am numb in the beginning And look at me not to. But
he says: Dear Valentine!

Mach no circumstances! Go! Since I put my plane out And tell the world
Adje. (Ab) Repetition A carpenter when his was like, Did some happy
hours, but happiness is not in the world with wealth only in the
covenant. Seh I zufriednen much sense to me since fleeing everything Weh.
Because I do not put the plane out not Tell Adje of art! (Ab) Seventh
Flottwell appearance with a picture in his hand, his image in representing
a young age. Liese. Hans. Hiesel. Flottwell.

What pleased me, my picture in your house. I can not in better hands. How
is it your father come? Liesenfeld. The father has told us he bought
hats in the castle. How it is judicially lizitiert been. Flottwell
(sighs). Yes so! Hansel. And it did not cost much. There is no man which
want to give this. Flottwell (for themselves). Shameful! Liese
(secretly). Are breastfeeding! Do you not know what the father said?
Hiesel (indicates the edge of the image). As is the date, if your grace
born. Liese (looks like). The last Julius. (Freudig.) Since today is
your birthday? Ah! this is beautiful. Precisely fifty years. All three.
Congratulations! (Liese runs continued) Flottwell. As the sun sank, I
was born. If they will fall again? Where will I be? (Sinks into
thought.) Hiesel (to Hans). You know, I am your amusement, when my
birthday is. Hansel. Yes, he is already fifty born.

Since gwöhnt mans halt. Liese (Pepi ride in, is now referred to as Knäbchen
cleanly dressed and carries a large bouquet of flowers). As I bring another
wishers. Hansel (looks out the window). Just comes the mother! (Runs out.)
Liese (warmly). Want your graces many such flowers bloom on your way!
That we wish you all wholeheartedly. Flottwell (takes deep taken the
bouquet says) Thank you, dear children! (and submit it on the table.)
Oh, why can I have only words to thank! Previous Eighth appearance.
Rosa, simply dressed bourgeois, aged.

She wears a covered basket. Hans and Michael with her. Rosa
(angry about Hans). What stay? Receive a foreign people? When so
much has children to feed! Is your father foolish? That was' still ab!
(Sees Flottwell.) There he is, yes. (For themselves.) Nu, from the
looks clean! Flottwell (who sat at tables and listened Rosas speeches,
stands on). Good day, dear woman, Rosa (nasty greeting). Good day, Herr
von Flottwell! Glad that your old servants provided. So you can at
least convince them that we are poor but honest people. In our house has
never been a jewelry exists, what you see. We have also in your service
does not generate as much as you can as some people who are a lock
of it was purchased. I think you will understand me.

Flottwell.

I do not quite understand, dear woman.

I do not exactly remember all the events at my house. Only I know
certainly that none of my servant, with my desire to befall an injustice
is. Pink (fine). Ah what! Conditions determine the expressions of the
people. I can tell you nothing at all to say Lord of Flottwell as: Look
at us! Can you demand of us that we are limited in our situation is even
a man get, we have nothing to thank our right as a reward, so you are
free to stay with us. My husband is a good Lappe, who is all talk.
The nähmet the whole world into the house, but I'm a housewife, I have
to decide, I know our relationships, our spending and our revenue. I
have for my children when they have nothing to eat, and I can not
give my consent.

We will be happy if us today at noon to honor. We will not let scoff.
But forever? Forgive S '! I can not admit! Today in my house and never!
Flottwell (disgusted with astonishment). No!

I have not heard! It was a dream! So she spoke to Julius von Flottwell
their einstgen Lord. At that Flottwell in the one hundred goldumstarrten
Saale flatterer at the table saw! Gepriesnen to the father of his
servant! For the noblest of friends! At best, most beautiful, witty
and goldbeglücktesten of people, and how the lies are all the candy
to their full glass hinschrieb. So she spoke to me that these flowers
have to ignite it heilger gratitude could have him as an angel in the lap
of paradise picked? O woman! Can I the tenth part of my happiness
zurückbeschwören and verlornen tenfold misery to your old main
hinschmettern that will take you to my feet should lead, then should my
generosity you teach, how you were wrong, that you in my misfortune
I've hurt so bitter. ( Gebt from.) Liese (grieves). That would have
the mother but does not do. Rosa (angry). Still, and march into the Kuchel
out! (Liese geht ab.

One of the boys.) Nu you have nothing to do Hansel (sobbed). That I
say the fathers, when he comes home. (Goes with the others anyway.)
Rosa (alone). That would be a nice business! And as the man screams in
a different room! And he has something of an old Main gsagt. Because I've
an old main? The man must have no eyes in the head.

It uses nothing once, you need to talk to his property. Who 's foot
aufmacht not, you must open up the bag. Ah, my husband comes home, I
will say my opinion. Previous Ninth appearance. Valentin. Valentin. So!
Now the door again in order. Ah, you have to house, dear wife? This
is Gscheid. Rosa. Yes, fortunately I am still at the right time to come
home to your hasty Streiche lost. Valentin. What string? Where is the
gracious Lord? Rosa. Where is he? Where it is popular. Valentin.
What? What have I said? If he is not in the chamber there?

Rosa. Find him! Valentin (look inside). Where is he? (Heftiger.)
Where is he? Rosa. What is going on at me? What I worry about
because foreign Leut? Valentin. Leut stranger? Hast thou not
spoken with him? Rosa (unwillingly). Ah what! Valentin. What is there
done? Children! If all her. (Liese. Hans. Hiesel. Michael, who leads
the Pepi.) Valentin. Where is the gracious Lord? Liese (embarrassed).
Yes, I - Rosa (pertly). Well, what stocks? Fort he is. Ists What next?
Valentin. Fort is he? Because what is he continuing? When he continued,
how he is continuing? At what clock he continue? Liesenfeld. Yes, the
mother - Valentin.

Published it! Rosa. Nu sags only! What you fear then? Liesenfeld. The
mother has to him gsagt: You keep him in the house.

Hansel (weeping). And the father make things louder so stupid. Valentin.
That you have said? Hiesel. Top fortgelaufen and he has cried. Valentin
(breaks into an ironic laugh from). Ha! ha! (clapped their hands.) Rosa.
Nu what its for things?

Valentin. Still is! Children who go beyond. Rosa. Why not - Valentin.
Still is - sit down there! Rosa. You! - Valentin (pushing it on the
chair). Low-sit! Children who go beyond. (The kids are going to sell.)
Hansel (the departure).

No, in our house was approaching, that's terrible. (Ab) Rosa (jumps up).
Now what solls be? Valentin. Only patience! I do not shame before the
children want, how you understand me! What is you now prefer? Wilt thou
merciful Lord in my house to keep, or I go continue. Rosa.

What?

What do you want for stories begin, because a foreign people? Valentin.
Is it strange to you? I am not!

One man, thanks I'm guilty, I can not be alien. Rosa. You're father. You
have to look at your children. Valentin. He is also my child, I've
adopted him.

Rosa. Nu is a young child. Valentin. Yes, you are so young as he is not,
for you the amount you, as if you're four years old. Rosa. In short: I
am sorry it is not in the house. Valentin. You do not suffer? Children!
enters. (All Children). All children. What orders the father? Valentin.
Get dressed, you go with me Hiesel. Where as, father? Valentin. The
werds already seen. On the loop we did not go.

Take everything. Your studies. The name Büchel. The entire library.

The plane. The whole work stuff. Everything! Rosa. Ah, yes that is me
not even occurred! Valentin. Gelt? Oh, there are things of which our
philosophy is not dreaming. Hansel. But today takes the father, which is
gscheidt. Rosa (lift your hands to the side). You want the children
out of the house take? Valentin. I am the cause that they have come into
the house, therefore I can s' from the house take. Liesenfeld. But father,
what should be for that? That would be quite appalling. Valentin (to
Liesenfeld).

Will you stay with your mother? Liesenfeld. Yes, it is my duty.
Valentin. So go to it! (Liese goes out.) Boys who go forth to me! (The
boys come to his side.)

These are the pillars of my kingdom. The belong to me. Get ready! (The
boys take it all.) Hiesel. What should I still take? Valentin. The
circle, round guy. Rosa. He makes really serious. That would have my life
is not believed. Liesenfeld. Dear mother, give the mother's.
Valentin.

So now is the finished extract. Now give eight. Now, I command:
Rechtsum revert you, march! (Will Forte.) Rosa (remorseful after calling
him). You man! Stop! Valentin. Whats? Rosa. I must tell you one more
thing! Valentin (for themselves). Aha! now catch the sub-plots. (Laut.)
Only short! I say the same. Rosa (softly). Let the children hinausgehn.
Valentin. Children, go outside! Liese (for themselves). Nu Thank God!
Hansel. It seems to me that the mother gives it to. Yes, when men
once we start, because it must stop or go. (The children.) Valentin. So
what do you want now? Rosa (good-natured).

Review, but überleg dirs, you will convince you, I did right.

Valentin. Still is, I say. Or I'll call the children inside. Rosa. So leave
it outside. Yes you rip too much shoe, if they are always out and run
again. Valentin. The advantage of everything you nothing. Aut Aut! Or,
either - Rosa. Well, I want me one. Valentin. Nothing superior.
Today he still in the house, and a meal must be prepared that the whole
mankind's hands over the head should beat. Rosa. Nu me ists recht! But
he does not deserve to us. Valentin. What say? He deserves not? Who is
to blame, that we shall live together peacefully? The fact that I have
to be masters and Häusel've since built, when the two hundred
ducats, which I then gradually shifted from him to give gekriegt hab.

Who have we owe to our bissel? Rosa. I was never like it. Valentin. Is
not it! The valet brought you only verschwärzt with him. Otherwise we
would be still in his house. Rosa. Yes if it one would have. Valentin.
Yes way. Since I've completely forgotten it. Rosa. He took me down at
every opportunity. Once, he even proposed a whole society said -
Valentin. What did he say? Rosa. This I say not. Valentin. Go, tell me,
dear old woman. Go! Who knows ists true? Rosa. Yes, it is also not true.
He said: I am mature. Valentin.

He gsagt? And did you last twenty years have noticed. Rosa. Oh, forget
something a woman never room. Valentin. Nu, the need to forgive him stop.
My heavens! A young man.

He was holding a loud so had skewed views. Then ists also not true. You're
built like an Egyptian pyramid. Who can for you in your form a bit to
say? That would be a really first class defamation.

Rosa. Nu, believe me. Valentin. Gelt, Old, yes, we keep him in the house.
You'll see it, I will be quite busy working.

It Schadt us nothing.

On the contrary, 's me everything is better out of hand. Rosa (after a
brief struggle). Nu my sake. So because his solls. Valentin (jumps for
joy). Rosel Bravo!

das hab ich auch von dir expected. I would not leave you, although
I wär heut fortgegangen. Oh! tomorrow night I would have come back
home. Now, however, is everything in order. Children! enters the last
time (all children.) children, submit everything again. We prefer not
enough. I did as a housewife with a new contract completed.'s Father
and mother are reconciled. The gracious Lord comes into the house.
Children (all joyfully). This is Gscheid! this is Gscheid! Valentin.
Drum is running, what you can. No man may stay at home. I take the
little boys with. (He takes Pepi on the arm.) Goes to all neighbors.
Ask if they have not seen him. They will help you search. And if ye
find him, it brings him.

Rosa. The man is foolish before louder joys. Children. Bravo! fun to go
now. (Ab) Hansel. Father, leave the father to me. If I pack it to
me, he never made. (Geht ab proud.) Valentin.

The boy may again become a great man, if he so fortwachst. Wife, now
come! You have a lot to me gmacht annoyances today, but now everything
is forgiven thee. No man is without fault, when a just the right time
the button is rising. Who knows, WERS vergilt yet, and I think I stop if
I even quite old, I would like but other memories recorded, than
that I've glued Stuhlfuß and a Schubladkasten made.

Now come! (Both from.) Tenth appearance Verwandlung The ruins of the
ancient castle Flottwell. Zerfallne chambers and towers, built on
rocks, are right. Links the prospect, almost on the level of Schloßberg
on ulterior conterpart mountains, behind which the sun goes down.
Flottwell in despair. Climbs over the rocks, as he would from the valley.
Flottwell. I'm up! I have reached the last level, which in this world
for me was yet to climb. I stand on my ancestors birthplace and
grave, Flott On Mr. Wells old noble palace.

We are also having disastrous. Had I not leave thee, And you would I do.
Too late! (Throws his hat and Bettelstab itself.) Rotting, Bettelstab!
My misery needs now not supported anymore. I never go back to your world,
my crimes Because I conclude from the realm of self-made.

I Versündigt at the majesty of gold. I did not consider that this metal
is a rule appropriated, before I would tremble, because it is cunning
with which bewundrungswürdig is The Noble himself drawn into his
circle.

Who feels happily, once by Wohltun A doctor of mankind, and which
it now fails because it Güldene medicinal Gebricht, making the sick
world recovers. I stood on this beneficent full height, I could erfreun
elsewhere lucky if my freudenleer own bosom was. I've got myself from
this heilgen fallen throne. This Einzge ists what I rightly should
Mourning, nothing else.

For children ridicule, of the commonwealth To Hohngelächter Shall never
a rabble Edler will, so take out my life, whose heart rate was honored.
I could plunge into the abyss that, but no!

Flott Wells of the last head, it does not bow so deeply.

My life is still einzge The Good, the waste left me, By now I just want
to be frugal, the hungry will slowly kill me here. For criminal, because
I have the thankless world Too much fattened hab. O Death, thou art
einzger My consolation. I have no friend so - (A stone differs back, and
the beggar without a hat and rod stands before him, speaks.) Beggars. As
me! Flottwell (appalled). As whom? Ha!

terrible shape, the last twenty years I never seen And I'm now on my
first recognizable Because my time on the same stage and I like you in
every respect Bejammernswert now and am miserable. Woe to me! Now me is
clear, you should me a show full picture of the warning. Beggars. This
was my purpose. You have not recognized me, because passion never sees
her faults.

Recognize me now all over, I'm a year from your eating too fast life, And
your fifties, which begin today, when the sun sinks.

You have to Cheristanen once one years away, and this noble fairy who has
sacrificed for you, saw the book in the future that if you do not kehrst
back from the waste train, the fiftieth year of your life you Bettelstab
as the reward for your recklessness rich is. do not think you would
have ended here.

Those who like you, and once stood on stage niedre Sun rises, sinks
deeper still, as one who is born in the mud. to warn were not you, so
I could you just from your deepest crash rescue. Until now, no one has
yet served Were you a: I have for you in your begging.

For a year I have the tribute by cunning and fear schaudervolle extorted
from you. The last hour I've kept you slept in stone and this speaks
to you: (A stone is divided, and a pile of gold and the jewelry can
be seen in a silver box.) Take your property here, you gave me, back.
You'll appreciate it better now, because you see the world about
your searched Detected fate.

What you gave to the poor, you have the good sense to own you.

Farewell! I've completed my mission. (Versinkt.) Flottwell (alone). Ists
dream ists truth, what I saw and heard? How the supernatural phenomenon?
(Soft music. The ruins are transformed into a group with
many clouds genii. Cheristane in irritant Feenkleidung in the middle on
a Flowers throne.) Cheristane (gently). My Julius! It was Azur, the
spirit of the last pearl, which I once considered yourself Sun
hingeopfert did joyfully, as I love the sweet to you with bitter
exile had to atone.

Oh! From Mir's fate is not so gegönnt thee to deliver, he has fulfilled
for me what my faith you once praised. Flottwell (kneeling).
Cheristane O! I saw you on this earth again? Du sky picture from
my rose time! Hardly dares my Wilted Aug look to raise to your Dawn
ewgen youth. Oh, do not pull away, still linger! See how melancholy
the previous ones time to kill me. Cheristane. Despair not, my
expensive Julius, And thy still tolerate short Erdenlos. We will certainly
be there once again!

in the boundless realm of love, Where all the ghosts may encounter. (They
fly under plaintive music. The ruins show again. Flottwell looks after
Cheristane.) Eleventh previous appearance. Liese. Then Valentin, Rosa,
kids. Neighboring people. Farmer. Liese (be the first on the scene).
Father! Father, only up! Here is the gracious Lord, very healthy
and still intact. Flottwell. Those who seek me here? (Includes the
box.) Valentin (comes). We all, Gracious Lord. The whole village is in
the highest. Flottwell. What do you want, good Valentine? Valentin.
What I want? My word, I want your grace, and ask forgiveness for
my wife ungeschliffnes.

Go forth, Verbrecherin and Kniest you down there. Rosa (warmly). Dear
Gracious Lord! I am very forget tonight. But I make my mistake again. You
may never out of our house. I will like you gwiß Maintain a daughter.
Children. Forgive S "her Gracious Lord! Pepi (kneels down). Dear
Lord, be well again, the mother does not know what they are doing. Valentin
(crying). The I sealed, your grace. Flottwell. Stand up, you good
people! I have already forgiven. And I am glad that I will reward your
loyalty now can. I am no more beggars. In these walls I found a little
treasure, which my father kept me here for.

Valentin.
Then I told my companions that all, save those of the Blood, must have
their eyes bandaged, as Djama's had been before, and when they had
submitted willingly to this, knowing that no harm would come to them, we
led them to the Sayacusca, I leading Ruth by the hand, and following the
bearers of Golden Star's litter, and there the way to the Hall of Gold
was opened as before, and we entered it, followed by a long line of the
Children of the Blood.

But I made no halt here, nor did I let my companions even see the
treasure that was to be divided between Djama and the professor
according to my promise, for I had greater marvels in store for them.
So, lantern in hand, I led the way through a winding gallery behind the
pyramid of gold of which I told you before. At the end of this was a
door, formed by a revolving stone similar to that at the entrance to the
hall. This Tupac and another opened under my directions, and we entered
a long, straight passage behind it. Aesthetics: that everything the
same Various below the formal conditions of space and time. The
supreme principle is the same in relation to the mind is that everything
Various illustrative of conditions under the original-synthetic
unity of Apperzeption stand *. Under the former, all the diverse ideas
of the opinion, provided they are given us, in the second if they are
in a sense must be combined, because without it nothing can be
thought of or recognized, because the current notions of Apperzeption
the Aktus, I thinking, not common, and thus not in a self-consciousness
would be grouped together. * The space and time and all parts have
the same opinion, therefore, individual performances with the
manifold that they contain in themselves (see the Transz. esthetics),
thus not mere words, by precisely the same sense, as in many ideas,
but ideas as in one, and their consciousness, which thus be assembled,
hence the unity of consciousness, as synthetic, but it is encountered
initially.

These same individuals is important in the application (see § 25). Mind
is, generally speaking, the assets of the findings. These consist in
the certain relationship performances due to an object. But is the
object in which the notion of a given Various opinion is united. Now,
however, all the association of ideas unity of consciousness in the
synthesis thereof. Consequently, the unity of one consciousness, which
alone the relationship of performances on an object, thus their objective
validity, therefore, that they are knowledge, consumption, and
consequently what even the possibility of the mind is based. The first
pure cognition mind So what's his all other use is founded, which is
also at the same time by all conditions of sensuous intuition
completely independent, it is now the principle of the original
synthetic unity of Apperzeption.

Thus the mere form of external sensuous intuition, space, still no
recognition, he is only the diversity of opinion, a priori, to a
possible cognition. But something in the region to identify, for example
a line, I must draw it, and therefore a certain combination of the
given manifold synthetically established, so that the unity of this act
at the same time the unity of consciousness (in terms of a line)
is , and thus all only an object (a particular area) is detected. The
synthetic unity of consciousness is therefore an objective condition
of all knowledge, not their own, I just needed to identify an object,
but every opinion must be in order for me to object, because
otherwise, and without this synthesis the Various are not in a
consciousness would unite.

This latter proposition is, as I said, even analytically, whether it is
the synthetic unity on the condition makes everything thinking, because
he says nothing more than that all my ideas in any given intuition under
the condition must be under the sole as I have my ideas about the
self-identical and, interestingly, in other words, as in a synthetic
Apperzeption bound by the general expression I can think together. But
this principle is not a principle for every possible überhaupt mind, but
only for those whose Apperzeption purely in the imagination: I'm
still nothing manifold is given.

The one mind, by its self-consciousness at the same time the diversity of
opinion would be a mind, by its presentation at the same time the
objects of this idea there would be a special Aktus synthesis of the
diversity to the unity of consciousness is not needed, which the human
mind, the only thinking, there seems no need. But for the human mind,
it is inevitable but the first principle, so that he even another possible
understanding, either those of the watch itself, or, although a sensuous
intuition, but of a different nature than in the space and the time,
basically lying to possess, not least the concept can do. § 18 What
objective unity of self-consciousness is the transcendental unity
of Apperzeption is that by which everything in an opinion given in
a Various definitions of the object will be united.

It is a matter of objective and subjective needs of the unity of consciousness
can be distinguished, a determination of the inner sense is that this
diversity of opinion on such a connection is given empirically.

Whether I look at the varied than at the same time or one after the other,
could be empirically aware, come on circumstances or empirical conditions
to.

Hence the empirical unity of consciousness, through association of
ideas, even an appearance concerns, and is entirely coincidental. By
contrast, the pure form of intuition in time, merely as a demonstration
at which a given manifold contains the original unity of consciousness,
merely because of the necessary relationship between the diversity
of opinion on the one hand, I think, so through the Synthesis of
the pure mind, which a priori to the empirical fact is.

That unit is alone objectively valid; the empirical unity of Apperzeption
that we do not consider, and even by the former, under given conditions
in concreto, is derived, has only subjective validity. One connects
the idea of a certain word with one thing, the other with a different
thing, and the unity of consciousness, in what is empirical, is in
view of what is not necessary and generally claimed. § 19 The logical
form of all judgments consists in the unity of the objective
Apperzeption the terms contained therein, I have never myself by
the statement that the judgments of a logician at all that can
satisfy it, as they say, the idea of a relationship between two
concepts.

Without now here on the incorrect statement that if they all only categorical,
but not mutually exclusive and hypothetical judgments fits, (as the
latter is not a ratio of terms, but even of judgments contain) to quarrel
with them, (ohnerachtet from this mistake of logic, some
troublesome consequences have grown up) * I just noticed that, where
this relationship exists is not determined here. * The extensive study
of the four syllogistischen figures concerns only categorical sense
conclusions, and whether they are indeed nothing more is as an art,
by hiding the immediate inferences (consequentiae immediatiae) under
the assumptions of a pure common sense conclusion, the apparent
conclusion of several species, as in the first figure to wrongfully,
it has been but this alone does not have strange luck when it comes
it had not managed to categorical judgments, than what all others
must relate to, in exclusive reputation to which Section 9, but is
wrong.

If I were but the relationship given evidence in any decisions, investigate,
and she, as the families understanding of the laws under conditions of
reproductive imagination (which has only subjective validity) was
different, I think that a verdict was nothing more than the type, given
findings on the unity of the objective to bring Apperzeption.

Verhältniswörtchen the aim is the same to the objective unity of given
conceptions of subjective distinction. Because this means the same
relationship to the original Apperzeption and the necessary unity of that,
although the verdict itself empirically, hence, random, for example,
the body is difficult.

So I do not want to say these ideas are represented in empirical intuition
necessary to each other, but they belong by means of the necessary
unity of the Apperzeption in the synthesis of views to each other,
ie in accordance with the principles of objective determination of
all the ideas, if this finding can be, what principles all from the
principle of unity of the transcendental Apperzeption derived.

This alone will judge this situation, ie a ratio which is objectively
valid, and is different from the situation, precisely the same ideas,
what would be merely subjective validity, eg according to the laws of
association, differs sufficiently. According to the latter, I would
only say: If I wear a body, so I feel a pressure to the sword, but not:
he, the body is difficult, which is so much to say, when these two
ideas are in the object, without di difference in the condition of
the subject, connected, and not merely in perception (as often they
may be repeated) together. § 20 All sensual views are among the
categories, as conditions under which alone the same in Various
awareness come together can the manifold in a given sensuous intuition
belongs necessary under the original synthetic unity of Apperzeption
because the unity of this intuition alone is possible. (§ 17).

That act of the intellect but by the Various good ideas (they like his
ideas or concepts) Apperzeption under one ever brought, is the logical
function of the judgments. (§ 19).

Various So everything is provided in an empirical intuition is given,
in view of the logical functions of a judge to determine, through which
it is a consciousness is brought about. Now the categories are but
nothing more than just these functions to judge if the Various
opinions given in view of their use. (§ 13). So also is the variety
in a given intuition necessary under categories. § 21 comment a varied,
in an opinion, which I call mine, is included by the Synthesis of
mind as to the necessary unity of self-consciousness duly presented,
and this done by the category *. This illustrates how to: that the
empirical consciousness of a given manifold as much an opinion
from a pure self-consciousness a priori, empirical intuition, such
as under a pure sensuous, which also has taken a priori, is. - In
the above sentence is the beginning of a deduction of the pure mind
made concepts, in which I, as the categories, regardless of sensuality
only originate in the understanding, nor by the way the Various
empirical intuition to be given, must be abstracted, to name only
on the unit, which in the opinion of the category by means of the
mind comes to see.

As a result (§ 26) is from the way in the sensuality of the empirical
intuition is given, showing that the unit not the same, others would,
as the category the previous section 20 to the manifold of a given
demonstration absolutely requires , and thus so that their validity,
a priori, in view of all objects of our senses is declared the intention
of the deduction first completely achieved. * The basic evidence presented
is based on the unity of opinion, this is a subject which at any time
for a synthesis of manifold to an opinion given in the closing,
and already the relationship of this latter unit contains the
Apperzeption.

Solo pieces by one I was able to in the above evidence is not abstract,
namely the fact that for the Various opinion even before the synthesis
of mind, and independently of her, where should be, like, however,
remains uncertain. After all, I wanted to give me a thinking mind,
the watch itself (such as a divine, not given to imagined objects, but
through his imagination while the objects themselves, where, or would
be produced), it would be the categories in respect of such findings
do have no meaning. They are only rules for a reason, whose whole property
is in thinking, ie in the plot, the synthesis of the manifold, which is
otherwise in the opinion has been given, the unit of Apperzeption to
bring the so nothing for himself recognizes, but just the stuff of
cognition, the view to him through the object to be connected and
assigns. From the peculiarity of our mind, however, the only means
of categories, and only through this kind and number of the same unit
Apperzeption a priori to bring, just let itself also a reason why
we have just as this and no other functions have to judge, or why
time and space are the only forms of our intuition are possible.
§ 22 The category has no other use for knowledge of things as they
are applied to objects of experience is an object thought, and
recognize an object, is not making a.

To include findings of two pieces: erstlich the concept, so any thought
of an object (the class), and secondly, the opinion, therefore, where
he is because the terms could be a corresponding intuition not to be,
he would have an idea the form, but without any object, and through
him no knowledge of any possible things, because, as far as I know,
nothing that would give even more-could be what my idea could be
applied.

Now all us potential visual senses (Aesthetics), so the thought of an
object at all by a mere concept in mind we only knowledge, provided
these objects on the senses is pursued. Sensuous intuition is either
pure intuition (space and time) or empirical intuition of that, which is
in space and time directly as a really, through sensation, is
presented.

By provision of the former, we can a priori knowledge of objects
(in mathematics) will receive, but only according to their shape as
apparitions, whether things were possible, in this form must be viewed,
but it still remains unausgemacht.

Consequently, all mathematical concepts are not for knowledge,
except if one assumes that there are things that only the pure form
of sensuous intuition under our representation.

Things in space and time, but only where, if they are perceptions (with
sensation accompanied performances) are, therefore, through empirical
performance. Consequently, the financial terms of pure mind, even if they
are based on a priori beliefs (as in mathematics) that are only
provided insight than this, hence the terminology means of their intellect,
to empirical beliefs can be applied. Consequently, the categories
provide us with the means of contemplation, no knowledge of things than
by their potential application to empirical intuition, ie they
serve only to the possibility of empirical knowledge.

This however is experience.

Consequently, the categories have no other use for knowledge of
things, just as if these objects as possible experience to be
adopted. § 23 The above sentence is of the greatest importance, as
much as it determines the limits of the use of pure concepts of
understanding in respect of the items as the transcendental aesthetic
limits the use of the pure form of our sensuous intuition.

Space and time, as conditions of possibility, like us, where objects
can be no further than for objects of the senses, hence me of the
experience. About these boundaries, they do nothing, because they are
only in the senses and have no reality apart from them. The pure intellect
terms are free from this restriction and extend to objects of
contemplation at all, she likes to be similar to ours or not, if they
are not only sensual and intellectually is.

This further extension of the terms of our sensuous intuition also
helps us to nothing. For it is then empty notions of objects, of which,
whether they are possible only once or not, that we can not judge,
merely forms of thought, without objective reality, because we no opinion
on hand on which the synthetic unity of Apperzeption which contain those
alone may be used, and so they could identify an object. Our senses,
intuition and empirical, they can only give meaning and significance.
If we take an object that is a non-sensuous intuition as given,
so it can admittedly through all the predicates imagine are already
subject to the condition that he not to give due sensuous intuition: that
is, that it is not extended, or in the rooms was that the duration of
that time was that no change in it (follow the provisions in the
period) will be displayed, etc.

This in itself is not a real knowledge, if I just display it as the
perception of the object was not, say, without knowing what it was
included because, since then I did not possibility of an object to my
mind pure concept presented, because I have no opinion can give him
the correspondence, but could only say that ours is not true for him.
As I stood there facing the prostrate
throng, lowering the Llautu on to my head, I heard a low, sharp cry
beside me on my right hand. I turned half round, and there I saw Golden
Star staring at me with eyes burning with the light that shone through
them from her new-awakened soul.

If the sultan expired and fell to his troops on the people, everything
was lost. The bomb and falconet guarnecían to the wall, but placed
on rough overlap or cure, and nothing for the By the aim was accurate,
they could sweep the crowd of rioters to be thrown into the assault of
the fortress, surrounded by deep moats. The Sultan had also been launched
against the city of choice cavalry guard his person, which were about
two hundred and eight elephants terrible for the fight and led by
skilled cornacas blacks.

This was the first thing that averted thanks to a happy stroke of hand.
For orders Tiburcio, stressed Morsamor hundred men of the most
daring, which cleverly diabolical able to penetrate the building
where paragraph guarecían horses, elephants, and cornacas guards. No
warning had come there. Without suspicion or fear, all asleep. While
attending the weapons and tried to defend himself, was stunning and
such a mess, they earned little.

With little loss of people Tiburcio masters, many of the guards were
killed. Others surrendered, laid down their weapons and left lock. The
elephants and horses also fell in the hands of people Morsamor and were
kept in the stables, sheds and corrals where they were wide. All this,
however, is not got no long fight.

Tiburcio and his people could not therefore come to the aid of Morsamor,
committed to no less arduous undertaking, that the circumstances were
very difficult. Although few muskets, they could go to the park, where
no attack was planned one, and although they were handled by clumsy
Musketeers without a working knowledge of those weapons were still some
shots on the Warriors Morsamor, causing nearly thirty casualties dead
and wounded. arredrarse Far from this, and the courage of the Morsamor
his growing anger and a desire for revenge. In a departure that the
sultan's palace was the people who were near him, the sultan was
rejected and had to quickly close the door so that the enemies do
not enter post him within the palace.

If Voltaire much attention to the pantomime would have been made, he would
also be obtained from the other side impropriety felt a ghost before the
eyes of a large quantity appear to be.

Everyone must at once, at the same Behold, express fear and horror, all
need to express in various ways, when the sight is not the symmetry of
a frosty ballet should be. Now you can not even have a flock of silly
extras on them, and if they are the happiest trained, so remember how
many of these very same expression of emotion share the attention,
and the main characters must be deducted.

If this the right impression on us to make, we must not only she can
see, but it is also good if we see nothing else than they.

When Shakespeare is the only Hamlet, with the specter discover, in the
scene where the mother, it is by the mother neither seen nor heard.
All of our observation is therefore to him, and the more characteristics
of a shiver of horror and torn him in mind, we discover, the more
willing we are, the appearance, in which the disruption caused him
to just to keep what he believes.

The specter wirket on us, more by him than by himself, the impression
it makes on him, go in on us, and the effect is too obvious and
too strong, as that we are extraordinary to cause doubt.

How little Voltaire has also understood this trick! It frightened a lot
on his mind, but not much.

Semiramis calls again: "Heaven! I die!" and the other circumstances make
no more with him than you ohngefähr with a far-away friends believed would
make the room at once into effect. Twelfth piece of the 9th Junius
1767, I still notice a difference, between the ghosts of the English and
French poet finds. Voltaire's ghost is nothing but a poetic machine
that only the node that is because it interests us for himself not
in the slightest. Shakespeare's ghost, however, is truly a person
acting on its fate, we will share it brings shiver, but also
compassion.

This difference arose, without doubt, different from the mentality of
both poets of the ghosts at all. Voltaire sees the appearance of a
deceased person as a miracle; Shakespeare as a natural occurrence. Which
of the two philosophical thinking, should be no question, but Shakespeare
poetic thought. The spirit of Voltaire Ninus came in as a being that
is still beyond the grave pleasant and unpleasant feelings, capable
of what we may have pity, not in contemplation.

He just wanted to teach so that the highest power to hidden crimes to light
and to punish, even probably an exception to its eternal laws do. I
do not want to say that it is a mistake, if the dramatic poet's fable
so establish that they are to explain or confirm any great moral
truth can serve.

But I must say that this body of fable nothing less than necessary; that
very instructive perfect pieces can give the individual no such maxim
abzwecken; that one is doing wrong, the last moral lament the end of
mourning for the Games of the Ancient finds so be as if the whole
thing to him just as would be.

Therefore, if the "Semiramis" the Lord of Voltaire would merit no further
than this, what he is doing so much benefit that it is the highest
justice venerate learn, The extraordinary action to punish vice,
choose extraordinary ways: it would "Semiramis" in my eyes, only a
very mediocre pieces.

Especially since this morality itself is not exactly this is edifying.
Because it is the wisest beings ohnstreitig far decent, if such extraordinary
ways, and we do not require us to punish the good and evil in the
proper chain of things from her woven think.

But I will when the pieces do not stay longer to nor a word of the type
to say, as aufgeführet been here. It has all the reason to be satisfied.
The stage is large enough, the amount of confusion without people to act,
the poet in different scenes can occur. The ornaments are new, from the
best flavors, and collect the alternate site as often as good as
possible into one.

The seventh evening (Thursday, 30 April) was "the married philosopher,"
from Destouches, gespielet. This comedy was in the year 1727, first
on the French stage and the applause was so general that in a year and a
day sechsunddreißigmal aufgeführet promised.

The German translation is not the prosaic to Berlin from the translated
works of all Destouches, but in verse, in which several hands have patched
up and improved.

She has a lot of really happy verses, but also a lot of hard and
unnatural positions. It is indescribable how difficult places like the
actor make it to act, yet are little pieces of French, the German theater
in any kind will ever be better than this on our. The roles are all
filled to the decorous, and especially the lions spielet Madame launigte
Celiante a champion, and Mr. Ackermann Geront the incorrigibly. I can
überhoben to obtain from the pieces themselves are talking about. It
is too well known and is under the undisputed masterpieces of the French
stage, which is also among us ever will see with pleasure. The play
of the eighth evening (Friday, 1 May) was "The Coffeehouse, or The
Schottländerin" of Mr. of Voltaire. It could be a long history of
this make comedies. Its author sent it as a translation from English of
Hume, not the story writer and philosopher, but of others of this
name, which is characterized by the tragedy "Douglas" has made known
in the world.

It has some characters with the "coffee bar" of Goldoni something
similar, especially the Don Marzio seems the archetype of the Goldoni
Frelon to have been. But there just a malicious guy is here at the same
time a wretched Skribent, Frelon he called it, so that the boom the
more speed on his geschwornen enemy, journalists Fréron fall like. This,
he wanted to beat the ground, and without doubt he has a sensitive
string offset.

We are foreigners, we are making to the gloating Neckereien the
French scholar among themselves take no part, see the personalities on
this piece away and take place in the Frelon nothing but the faithful
portrayal of a kind of people, even if we are not strange. We
have our Frelon as good as the French and English, only that they make
us less attention, because our literature is absolutely indifferent.
Falls at the end of the meeting of this nature but also entirely
away in Germany, then the piece yet, nor, except him, enough interest,
and the honest Freeport alone, it could get in our favor. We love
its crude generosity, and the British themselves, have found thus
flattered. Seinetwegen Only recently, they have the whole tribe to
the bottom really transplanted on which he grew to be praised.

Colman, ground itzt her best comic poet, The "Schottländerin", under
the title of "English businessman," and translated it perfectly all
the national coloring given to it in the originals still lacking. As
much as the Lord of Voltaire, the English customs also wants to know,
he had often violate, the record is that he lindane at a coffeehouse
can live. Colman rents when they are an honest woman who furnished the
room holds, and this woman is more decent and well-being the girlfriend
of the young perpetrator abandoned Beautiful, as Fabriz. Also Colman
has the characters for the English taste to make meaningful progress.
Lady Alton is not merely a jealous fury, she wants a women's room of
genius, of taste and erudition, and there is the reputation of a
protective goddess of the literature.

This, he believed the connection more likely to make in it with the
miserable Frelon stand, which he later nennet. Freeport has mainly a
further sphere of activity will, and he takes the father of lindane
also eager to lindane than the French themselves in what the Lord Falbridge
whose pardon does, does in English Free Port, and he is alone, the
everything to bring a happy ending. The English judges have art
in the Colman reworking attitudes quite superb, the dialogue is
fine and lively and the characters very well run place.

But they Colman rest of her pieces well ahead of what we "The jealous
wife" on the arable Manni's theater formerly seen here, and after those
who remember her, some may judge. "The English businessman has not enough
action, and the curiosity is not enough to genähret the whole Verwickelung
is the first visible acts. Hiernächst he has them too much similarity
with other pieces, and the best of situations there is no novelty.
Freeport, they say, had not the slightest spark of love against
lindane must feel, his good deed thereby lose all earnings, etc.

It is some of this criticism is not entirely ungegründet, however, we
Germans are very well satisfied that the action will not be rich and
complicated. The English style in this point and tired zerstreuet us,
we love to simple plan, which is at once overlooked it. Just as the
British, the French pieces with episodes vollpfropfen only when
they use their stage to be liked, so we would have pieces of the English
from their first episodes discharged upon our stage so happy enrich
wanted.

Your best comedies a Congreve and Wycherley would be without this
extension of the overly voluptuous stature, his insufferable. With
its tragedies, we will have more ready and these are sometimes so far not
confused, as their comedy, and variety, without the slightest
change in our luck made, none of which I only say their comedies
knew. Even the Italians have a translation of "Schottländerin",
in the first part of the theatrical library Diodati stand. It follows
the step before step originals, like the German, with only one
scene at the end of the Italians has its longer exists. Voltaire said,
Frelon be in the English original, in the end punished, but it deserves
punishment, says he did but the main interest geschienen hurt, he did so
is omitted. The Italians eyes that apology is not sufficient, and he added
the punishment of Frelon out of his head, because the Italians are
great lovers of poetic justice.

Thirteenth piece of the 12th Junius in 1767 the ninth evening
(Monday, 4 May) should be "Ceni" gespielet.

There were at once more than half of the actors by a random epidemic
gesetzet stood apart, to act, and there had to be so good to help
search as possible. You repeated "The new Agnese" and gave the
Singspiel "The governess".

The tenth evening (Tuesday, 5 May) was "The poetic village Junker",
from Destouches listed. This piece is in French, three lifts, and in
the translation of five.

Without this improvement was not worth it in the "Deutsche Schaubühne"
of the famous Professor Weiland Gottsched to be, and his learned friend,
the translator, was a very good wife, than that they are not critical
to the sayings of her husband blindly would be subject. How much is it
now for big trouble, from three to five elevators do? Leave in another
room even drink coffee, we propose a walk in the garden in front, and
if not the man to go, then yes, the light shiners come out and say:
"Ladies and gentlemen, get a little from the intermediate file because
of the plaster are invented, and what helps your playing, if the
ground can not see?

"- the translation itself is not bad otherwise, and especially Professor
Fr are the verses of the Knittelfeld Mazuria how cheap, very well
managed.

Whether they have been happy anywhere as well, where the original
ideas of a different twist to be believed, would arise from the
comparison show. An improvement of this kind, with the dear wife cordially
gemeinet was good, I hear demohngeachtet aufmutzen. In the scene where
the Henriette silly lass plays, allows Destouches Masuria to her,
saying: "They put me in astonishment, Mademoiselle, I've been kept
for a virtuoso."

"Oh, Pooh!" Replied Henriette, "what have you hold me? I'm an honest girl,
that you just know." "But we can yes, its Mazuria a" well both
at the same time, an honest girl, and a virtuoso, his. " "No," said
Henriette, "I say that it is not at the same time can be. I have a
virtuoso!" You remember what Madame Gottsched instead of the word
"virtuoso" has been a miracle.

No wonder! people said that they did. They also felt something of a
virtuoso to be, and was on the supposedly evil trick.

But they would not be angry, and what the learned and witty Henriette,
in the person of a stupid Agnese, says the woman professor had always,
without foot peaks, to be able to say. But perhaps it was only the third
offensive word virtuoso, is a German miracle; also is available at our
beautiful miracle fifty against a virtuoso, the woman wanted to translate
pure and understandable, they had very right. The decision made this
evening, "The silent beauty" by Schlegeln.

Schlegel had this little piece for the theater Kopenhagensche newly written
to the same in a Danish translation aufgeführet them.

The moral is, therefore, are really Danish, a German. It is undisputed
Demohngeachtet our best original comic, which is written in verse.
Schlegel had an equally over-flowing as Versifikation delicate, and
it was a stroke of luck for his successor, that he is not even bigger
comedies written in verse. He could have them easily spoil the audience,
and they would not only his teaching but also his example have had
to resist.

He was formerly the very lively rhyming comedy adopted, and the happier
he rose through the same difficulties would have, the more irrefutable
geschienen would have his reasons.

But when he hands to the work presented, it was without doubt unspeakable
trouble as it cost only a part of ones beyond, and how little the
pleasure which these difficulties have increased entstehet, for the
quantity of small beauties that you sacrifice they have to consider
harmless.

The French were formerly so nauseating that we give them the prosaic
pieces of Molière, after his death, had to bring in the verses, and
yet itzt hear a prosaic thing as a comedy in which every one of
them could make.

The Englishman, however, would require a rhyming comedy theater from the
hunt. Only the Germans are here, should I say cheaper, or indifferent?

You attend, giving them the poet vorsetzt.

What would it even if they already itzt select and elimination
wanted?

The role of the silent beauty has her concerns. A silent beauty, they
say, is not necessarily a silly, and the actress is quite wrong, a
silly vulgar prostitute makes. But Schlegel's silent beauty, however,
is also stupid, because they do not speak, ways; the point is because
they do not think.

That would be fine with this, that they are, wherever they seem to like
to think would have made rude, but it had all the style would be the
only mechanically, and they, without much to think, have could. Your
career record, their bow, bäurisch do not need to be, they can be good
and fine, when they just always been a dancing master may return, because
why should they dance from their masters have learned nothing, because
even quadrille has learned? And they must quadrille not play badly,
because they firmly expects that the money Papa abzugewinnen. Their
clothes must not altvätrisch still schlumpicht be, because Mrs.
Praatgern says explicitly: "Are you perhaps not well dressed - but
let's see !

Now! - spinning around you - that is quite good, and sits gallantly.

What says because of the visionary, you lack the intellect? "In this
pattern Fr Praatgern ever, the poet noticed clearly enough, as he
External his silent beauty to be desirable. Also nice, but not irritating.
"Let's see how you are wearing - the head back is not so!" stupidity
without education keeps the head more forward than back, hold him back,
teaches the Dancing Master, we must therefore Charlotten watch the dance
master, and the more the better, because that hurts their dumbness nothing,
rather stiff, the graceful dance master the manners just what the silent
beauty of most requirements, they show the beauty in its best advantage,
only that they take her life. "He who asks: she mind? the seh 'just
their looks." probably right when an actress with big beautiful eyes on
this role.

Only these have beautiful eyes little or no rain, and their views
must be slow and bull, they need to deal with their immovable hotspots
in Flames want, but say nothing.
I thought it was so important that all this should be
kept secret? Surely no one has betrayed you already? But no, that can't
be. Hartness, what does it all mean?'

'It means--first,' I said, speaking very slowly, and not in a loud
voice, 'that you have been brought here with Laurens Djama to take the
oath which you agreed to take--never to reveal the secrets of the things
that you have learned. I ask your pardon for the rude way in which my
people have brought you, but it was necessary.'

Then I turned to Djama, who was standing silent and motionless, with
clenched teeth and set face, like one who knows that he stands near his
doom and has no hope of mercy, and said,--

'Now, Laurens Djama, are you ready to do as you promised to do when I
told you that I would give you the half of this gold for what you have
done for me and Golden Star? Are you ready to swear the oath here, in
the presence of these witnesses, that you swore to me then?'

He drew himself up and looked at me boldly--for he was a brave man
although his heart was black--and said to me with a hard, harsh laugh in
his voice,--

'You have been too clever for me, and so I suppose you have the right to
mock me. There is no need to go on with this farce. The sight of your
treasures gave me the gold-fever, I suppose, and it drove me mad, as it
has driven many others mad, and I betrayed you. There is no use saying
any more. I see that I have been betrayed too, and that my life is in
your hands, so I need only say that I keep the right of taking it myself
in my own way.'

'There is no need for that yet,' I said, 'and others are concerned in
this besides you.'

Then I turned from him to Francis Hartness and said,--

'I cannot speak the Spanish speech, and I would not if I could. Do you
therefore speak to the Spaniard yonder, and bid him say how he came to
be here with his soldiers. E. the red, has a grade that, however small it
may be, is never the smallest, and so it is with the warmth, the moments
of gravity, etc. bewandt everywhere. The status of the sizes, which
according to them no part of the smallest possible (no part-way) is
called the continuity of the same.

Space and time are quanta continua, because no part may be the same without
him between limits (points and moments) included, hence the only way that
this part of themselves a space or time. The space consists only of
spaces, from the time periods. Points and moments are only boundaries,
ie their bodies mere restriction, but agencies put those views at any
time, they restrict or determine to be granted, and naked bodies, as
from ingredients that are still before the space or time could be
neither space nor time together. Similar sizes can also be called flowing,
because the synthesis (the productive imagination) in its progress
in creating a time, and that its continuity is especially through the
expression of the flow (Verfließens) cares to call. All phenomena are
therefore absolutely continuous variables, both after their opinion,
as extensive, or the mere perception (sensation, and thus reality)
to, as intensive quantities.

When the synthesis of the diversity of appearance is lost, so this
is a aggregate of many phenomena, and not really a quantum phenomenon,
which is not the mere continuation of the productive synthesis of
a certain kind, but by repetition of a synthesis aufhörenden ever
produced.

If I were 13 thalers Quantum mention a money, so where do I rename it
correctly when I including the salary of an understand Mark fine
silver, but which, however, size is a continuous, in which no part
of the smallest, but any part of a coin could represent what always
matter to include even smaller.

But if I lower than round 13 nomination thalers understand as much
as coins, (its silver content may be what he wanted,) so do I rename
it unseemly by a Quantum of crowns, but it must be an aggregate, a
number of coins, call. Because now all paying for the unit but must
be based, as is the appearance of a quantum unit, and as such can be
a continuum. If all appearances both extensively, as intense,
continuous variables, so the sentence would be: that all change
(transition of a thing from an establishment in the other) to
continuously, easily and with mathematical evidence here can be
proved, if not the causality of a change ever quite outside the
limits of a transcendental philosophy would be, and empirical
principles requires continued.

Because that one possible cause was that the state of things change,
they di contrary to a certain given state determines which gives
us the mind a priori, no opening, not just because he can simply
do not knows (because this insight is lacking in a number of us, a
priori knowledge,) but because the variability of only certain provisions
of the true phenomena, which experience alone can teach, however, that
their cause in the Invariant encountered. Since we are here but
nothing before us, which we can operate as pure basic terms of all
possible experience, in what certainly nothing to be empirical,
so can we, without the unity of the system to violate the general
science that are based on certain Basic experience is built, not pre.

Nevertheless, we are not lacking in Beweistümern the great influence
which this our policy has to anticipate perceptions, and even if their
lack supplement that he had all the wrong conclusions to be drawn
to the bars vorschiebt. If all reality in perception has a degree,
between which and negation of an infinite sequence level takes place
always inferior grade, and yet every one sense a certain degree of
Rezeptivität of feelings must have, there is no perception, no experience,
therefore, possible with a total lack of anything real in
appearance that it is directly or indirectly, (through outright in what
you always wanted to close,) proved di it can from the experience never
a proof of empty space or a blank time should be considered. Because
the total lack of reality in the erstlich sensuous intuition can not
even be perceived, and secondly it can not single out the differences
in appearance and of their degree of reality, an inference, or
declaration must also never be the same. Because if the whole
outlook of a particular space or time through and through in real
terms, ie no part thereof is empty, but it must be because every
reality has its degree, which, without changing the appearance of
extensive size to nothing (the empty) through infinite levels
decrease, infinitely various degrees, with which space or time was
fulfilled, type, size and intensive appearances in various smaller
or larger can, despite the extensive size of the demonstration is
the same.

We want an example of them. Almost all natural teachers because they have
a big difference in the quantity of matter of various kinds at the
same volume (partly by the moment of gravity, or weight, partly through
the moment of resistance to moving other matters) perceive, unanimously
concluded that: this volume (extensive size of the phenomenon) must in
all matters, although in varying degrees, be empty. Who would have thought
but most of these mathematical and mechanical natural researchers probably
ever idea that their conclusion that only a metaphysical condition, which
they do so to avoid pretend founded? they assume that the real in the
space (I like it here does not mention impenetrability or weight,
because this empirical concepts are), was making a allerwärts, and
only the extensive size of the crowd could be distinguished after.

This condition, plus they do not reason in the experience may have had,
and which is merely metaphysical, I do transcendental proof contrary,
although the difference in the performance of the rooms is not
explain, but the supposed necessity of condition imaginary difference
otherwise than by probable empty spaces, to be able to explain
completely abrogate, and has the merit, at least in the mind, freedom
to make these differences also apply to other kinds of thinking,
if the nature of any statement in this hypothesis should make it
necessary.

Indeed, since we see that, although the same rooms of different materials
may be completely fulfilled, so that none of them is a point which is
not their presence would be encountered, so did any real quality in
their same degree (of resistance or weighing), without any reduction
of the extensive size or quantity to infinity may be less, before they
empty into the passes, and disappears. For example, a relaxation,
an area which meets, such as heat, and in the same way any other reality
(in appearance), not least in the smallest part of that empty space
to let their grades fall into infinity, and nevertheless the room with
these smaller degrees satisfy as much as a different appearance with
larger ones.

My intention here is no way to say: that this truly with the diversity
of materials, their specific gravity, so bewandt, but only from a
principle of pure reason to show: that the nature of our perceptions
of such Erklärungsart can do, and that you falsely of the real
appearance of the grade as an equal, and only the aggregation and
their extensive size as different presume, and this even vorgeblichermaßen
by a principle of reason, a priori claim.

It has, however, this anticipation of the exercise for a bit the usual
transcendental and thus made after careful researcher, always something
striking about that and excited about some concerns that the mind like
a synthetic sentence, as the degree of all reality in phenomena, and
hence the possibility of the internal difference of sensation even if
one of their empirical quality abstracts, and it is thus a special
resolution is not unworthy of the question: how the mind herein
appearances on synthetic a priori pronounce, and even in person,
and what is merely empirically, namely, the sensation is concerned
, can anticipate?

The quality of sensation is always merely empirical and a priori can not
be presented, (eg color, taste, etc.). But the real, making the
sensations even corresponded, in contrast with the negation = O, represents
only something whose concept of a being which means nothing but the
synthesis in an empirical sense at all. In the inner sense of
consciousness, the empirical O to every major grade increases, so
that precisely the same extensive size of the demonstration (eg
illuminated area) so great a sensation excited than an aggregate
of many other (less enlightened) together.

So you can from the extensive size of the phenomenon entirely abstract,
and yet the mere sensation in a moment the steady increase in synthesis
of O up to the given empirical consciousness imagine. All sensations
therefore as such, only a priori, but the same property that they
have a degree, can be detected a priori.

It is curious that we all sizes a priori only a single quality, namely
the continuity, but in all quality (the reality of the apparitions),
a priori, nothing more than the intensive quantity thereof, namely
that they have a degree, can recognize everything remains the
experience of other leave. 3 Analogies of Experience The principle
is the same: Experience is limited only by the idea of a necessary
link between the perceptions possible.

Evidence of experience is an empirical finding, ie a recognition by
the perceptions of an object is determined. It is therefore a synthesis
of perceptions, which themselves are not included in the perception, but
the synthetic unity of the manifold in one consciousness that
contains what the essence of a knowledge of the objects of the sense
of the experience (not merely the opinion or perception of sense)
mind.

Now, in the perceptions of the experience just happens to each other, so
that there is no need to link their perceptions of themselves from
the shed, nor can shed because apprehending only a summary of the
diversity of empirical opinion, but no idea of the necessity of the
existence of the associated phenomena which it puts together, in
space and time in the same is encountered.

However, as experience knowledge of objects through perception is,
therefore the ratio in the general interest of the manifold, not
as in time together, but as it is objectively in time is presented
in it should be, the time course but not be perceived can, then the
determination of the existence of objects in time only through their
connection in time at all, thus only by a priori notions linked,
happened.

Since these are always at the same time need to carry, it is only
experience with a presentation of the necessary link between the
perceptions possible.

The three modi of time are persistence, consistency and Zugleichsein.
Therefore, three rules of all time ratios of the phenomena that each
in its existence consideration of the unity of all time can be
determined, above all the experience ahead, and this first possible.

The general principle of all three analogies based on the necessary
unity of the Apperzeption into consideration all possible empirical
consciousness (perception,) at any time, therefore, a priori, since
that is the reason, on the synthetic unity of all phenomena according
to their relationships in time.

Because the original Apperzeption refers to the inner sense (the
epitome of all the performances), and a priori on the form of the
same, ie the ratio of the manifold empirical consciousness in time.

In the original Apperzeption is now all this variety, according to
his contemporaries and fair, unite with, because this says that the
transcendental unity a priori, under which everything is what my (some
of my) knowledge should include, therefore, a subject for me can.

This synthetic unity in the empire of all perceptions, which is determined
a priori, is the law: that all empirical time provisions under rules
specify the time-determination must be, and the analogies of experience,
of which we act now if they have similar rules.

These principles have to be so special that they are not the appearances
and the empirical synthesis of their opinions, but merely the existence,
and their relationship to each other in view of this their existence,
considering. Now, the way something in the appearance apprehendiert is,
a priori, so determined that the rule of its synthesis at the same
time, this a priori intuition in every empirical examples of this
type, ie that they can bring.

With the existence of the phenomena can not a priori be detected, and
whether we like in this way could then arrive at some general interest
to close this so we would certainly not recognize the di, thus its
empirical intuition from other differences, can anticipate. The previous
two principles, which I called mathematical, in consideration of the fact
that they apply mathematics to phenomena legitimate, went to their bare
appearances possibility, and taught how to both of their opinions, as
the real according to their perception, according to rules a mathematical
synthesis could be generated, so in terms of one, other than the number
of sizes, and, with them, the determination of the appearance as
size, can be used.

So will I as the degree of feelings of sunlight from about 200 000
enlightenment by the moon together, and a priori determined that di
can construct. Therefore, we can make the first call constitutive
principles. It must be quite different with those bewandt that the
existence of appearances under rules a priori bring. Because, as this
can not be constructed, they are only on the ratio of life go, and none
other than merely regulative principles of use. There is therefore neither
axioms nor anticipation to think, but if we have a perception of
time in a situation against other (although undetermined) is given, it
is a priori can not be said: what other great perception and how, but
how according to the existence, in this modo of time associated with
that need it. In the philosophy mean something very different analogies
from that what they are in mathematics imagine.

In this there are formulas which the equality of two proportions testify,
and always constitutive, so that when two members of the proportion are
given, also the third This is, di can be constructed. In the philosophy
but the analogy is not the equality of two quantitative but qualitative
relationships, where I consists of three members only given the
relationship to a fourth, but not this fourth member itself recognize
and can give a priori, but a rule had in the search experience, and
a feature that is in the same records.

An analogy of experience is therefore only a rule according to which
perceptions of unity of experience (not perception itself, as an
empirical intuition at all) are born, and as principle of the objects
(the symptoms) are not constitutively, but are merely regulatory.
Ebendasselbe but also of the postulates of empirical thinking about
what the Synthesis of mere intuition (the form of appearance), perception
(of the same matter), and the experience (of the relationship of these
perceptions) of concern, namely that they only regulative principles,
and from the mathematical, which are constitutive, not the certainty,
in which two a priori determined, but in the nature of the evidence
of the same intuitive (hence the demonstration) differ.

But what for all synthetic principles was recalled, and there must
be excellent, is this: that these analogies are not as principles
of the transcendental, but merely use the empirical mind, their
sole importance and validity half, therefore, only as such can be
proved that, consequently, the appearances are not under the
categories par excellence, but only under their Schemat be subsumed.

Indeed, if the objects to which these principles are to be things to
itself, it would be quite impossible, some of them synthetically a
priori to identify. Now there are nothing but appearances, their full
realization, to which all principles a priori as it always must
be phased out, but the experience is possible, therefore those can
not be merely the conditions of the unity of the empirical findings
in the synthesis of appearances on the goals have, but this is only
alone in the schema of the pure concept of mind thought of their
unity as a synthesis at all, the category no sensuous condition
restringierte function.

We will therefore by these principles, the symptoms only after an analogy
with the logical unit and the general concepts, will be entitled to
assemble, and therefore ourselves in the principles themselves in the
category of use, but in the execution (the application to appearances)
the schema same as the key to its use, in its place, or that much
more than restringierende condition under the name of a formula of
the former, go to page set.

A. First analogy principle of persistence of the substance In all change
of appearances insists the substance and the same quantum in nature is
neither increased nor diminished. Proof All appearances are in the period
in which, as a substrate (as a persistent form of inner intuition,) the
Zugleichsein both as the result can be presented alone.
As for me, no sleep came to my eyes, for I knew that when Joyful Star
awoke I should have to tell her at least something of what her brother
had done and of what had happened to him, and a grievous task it was,
you may be sure, when I came to the doing of it, as I did not many hours
afterwards.

The first thing she asked me when she found that Djama was not with us
was what had become of him, and then, knowing that sooner or later the
bitter truth had to be told, I told her as gently as I was able, and
hiding from her all that I could without lying to her. My words struck
her dumb with horror and amazement, and if it had not been that Francis
Hartness and the professor were there, and told her that they had seen
and heard with their own eyes and ears the truth of all that I said, I
do not think she would have believed me. But if we are using these terms
to the objects go, it is necessary first and foremost transcendental
consideration, for which knowledge objects force them to be, whether for
the pure intellect, or sensuality.

Without this reflection I make a very unsafe use of these terms, and it
supposedly originated synthetic principles that the critical reason
can not recognize, and only to a transcendental Amphibolie, a
confusion of mind of the pure object with the appearance, form.

In the absence of such a transcendental topic, and, consequently, by
the terms of the reflection Amphibolie deceived, was built by the
famous Leibniz an intellectual system of the world, or thought much
more of the inner nature of things to see by all the objects only with
the understanding and the separate formal terms of his thought compared.
Our panel of reflection terms provide us with the unexpected
advantage of the difference of his Lehrbegriffs in its entirety,
while the chief reason for this peculiar mentality to lay before
the eyes, to nothing, as a misunderstood, was based.

He compared all things only by terms with each other, and found, as of
course, no other differences than those by which his mind pure concepts
differ.

The conditions of sensuous intuition, their own differences in them, he
saw not originally sent to, for sensuality, he just a confused
Vorstellungsart and no specific source of ideas, his appearance was
the idea of the thing in itself, although by the recognition by the
mind, the logical form, distinguished, namely because those who in
their habitual lack of fragmentation, a mix of ideas in addition
to the notion of the thing moves, the mind which must be isolated
white.

With one word: Leibniz intellektuierte the phenomena, such as Locke, the
concepts of mind according to a system of Noogonie (if I allowed myself
to use these expressions,) sensifiziert total, ie for nothing, as an
empirical, or separate reflection terms had spent. Instead of understanding
and the sensibility of two very different sources of ideas to find the
link but only objectively valid judge of things could be held every one
of these great men only in one of two who in their opinion directly to
things in themselves even relate, however, that the other did nothing,
as the ideas of the former, to confuse or to arrange. Leibniz compared
therefore the objects of the senses as things ever just in understanding
each other. Erstlich, if by that than making a different or should be
judged. As he thus only their words, not their position in the opinion,
that the objects may be used alone, had in mind, and the transcendental
place of these terms (whether the object appearances, or things
to yourself to count was ) completely out of the eight left, so it could
not be different than that his principle of Nichtzuunterscheidenden,
merely by the terms of the things ever applies also to the objects
of sense (mundus phenomenon) expanded, and knowledge of nature by
no small expansion allows to have believed.

Admittedly, if I see a drop of water as a thing in itself, even after
all of its internal rules know, I can not the same from the other can
apply for different, if the whole notion of that with him
making a difference. Does he look in the space, he has his place not
just in understanding (under terms), but in the sensuous external intuition
(in space), and there are physical places, in view of the internal rules
of the things that totally irrelevant and b = a place, a thing which
any other places in which = a very similar and the same, record as much
as if it is from this still would be very different internally.
The variety of places, the diversity and distinction of objects
as phenomena, without any conditions, in itself not only possible
but also necessary.

Also apparent is the law not a law of nature. It is merely an analytical
rule or comparison of things by mere words. Secondly, the principle
that reality (as a mere affirmation) never logically contradict each
other, argue, is a true record by the ratios of the terms mean,
however, neither in respect of nature nor anywhere in any consideration
of a thing to itself, (by this we have no idea,) the least.
Because the real conflict will allerwärts, where A - B = 0, where di
is a reality with the other, in a subject related to the effect of the
other lifts, which remove all obstacles and counter-effects in nature
unceasingly in mind, which nevertheless, because it forces based
real phenomena need to be mentioned. The general mechanism may
even be the empirical condition of this conflict in a rule a priori
specified by the juxtaposition of directions see: a condition of which
the transcendental concept of reality knows nothing. While Mr. von
Leibniz this sentence is not just with the pomp of a new principle
announced, so he still served the same on new allegations, and his followers
wore them explicitly in their Leibniz Wolfianischen Lehrgebäude On.
According to this principle are such E. nothing but evil all the
consequences of the limitations of the creatures of negations,
because this is the only conflict at the end of reality, (in the
bare terms of a thing about it is really so, but not in the things
as phenomena).

Imgleichen find the trailer that is not only possible but of course,
all reality, without any conflict with care, in a sector to unite because
they have no other than the opposition (through the notion of a thing
itself is lifted), not But the mutual dropout, since a real reason
the effect of the other lifts, and that we are only in the sensuality
of the conditions for you to provide us such a present.

Third, the Leibniz Monadologie has no other reason than that the
philosopher of the difference Interior and exterior only in relation to
the mind imagined. The substances have to do something about home
affairs, which then by all external relations, consequently, the
composition, is free. The Easy is the basis of the Interior of the things
themselves but the interior of their condition can not be in
place, form, touch or movement, (which provisions are all external
relations,) exist, and we can therefore no other substances inner
state, than those which we sense our own internally determined, namely
the state of the presentations, to enclose. Thus, because the monads
done, what the basic costs of the whole universe to be its active force,
but only ideas in there, so they are actually just in themselves
are effective.

Just had a question but also his Principium of the possible community
of agents among a predetermined harmony, and could not influence his
physical. Because everything just inwardly di busy with his ideas,
it was the condition of the ideas of the one with the other substance
in the whole and no effective combination, but it had to any third
overall and in all inflowing cause their states each corresponding
make, not just through occasional and in each case particularly appropriate
assistance (systematic assistentiae), but by the unity of the idea of
a valid cause for all, in which a total of its existence and persistence,
hence-reciprocal correspondence with each other, according to general
laws get them. Fourthly, the famous Lehrbegriff same time and
space, it is these forms of sensuality intellektuierte was only
just the same delusion of transcendental reflection arisen.

When I look through the mere external conditions of the mind to imagine
things will, then this only means of a concept of reciprocal action to
happen, and I will be a state thing ebendesselben another link states,
so this may be only in the order of causes and consequences happen. So
Leibniz thought, so the space as a certain order in the community
of agents, and time as the dynamic result of their conditions. The
owner however, and independent of things, which both in themselves seem
to have, he wrote of the confusion of these terms, which made that
one, which is a mere form of dynamic conditions, for its own existing
for itself, and the things even prior opinion is held.

So there were space and time form the intelligibility of the link of
things (substances and their states) to the things themselves but were
intelligibility substances (substantia noumena). Nevertheless, he
wanted these words for phenomena argue, because he does not have
its own kind of sensuality of contemplation was admitted, but all,
even the empirical idea of the items examined in the understanding
and the senses is nothing but the business was contemptuous, the
ideas of the former to confuse and to deface.

If we do things to yourself anything by pure mind synthetically could
say, (which however is impossible,) but this would not on appearances,
which are not things to yourself imagine can be drawn.

I shall therefore in this latter case, in the transcendental thought my
terms at any time except under the conditions of sensibility must compare,
and so space and time are not provisions of the things in themselves,
but of his appearances, what things in themselves may be, knows I do
not need it and also not to know, because I am never a thing
differently, than in the phenomenon can occur.

So should I also use the rest of reflection terms. Matter is substantia
phenomenon. How important is it inwardly, I'm looking in all parts of
the room, which she occupies, and in all the effects which it
exerts, and of course only ever referred to external appearances
can be.

So I have not a par, but louder comparative-inner, which in turn itself
from external conditions exists. Alone, the ultimate, the pure Reason
to, the inside of the matter is a mere cricket, because it is everywhere
no object for the pure mind, but the transcendental object, which is
the reason this phenomenon may be, which we call matter, is a
merely something of which we would not even understand what it was
if we could tell somebody.

Because we can not understand than what we say in the opinion Corresponding
with him.

If the complaints that we see the inside of things not to be mean as
much as we do not by the pure mind, what the things that make us appear
to be like that, so they are very unfair and unreasonable; because they
want that one but without the sense of things seen, therefore, could
watch, that we are a consequence of the human is not just the
grade, but even the contemplation and nature, totally different
knowledge assets, not people, but care should be of which we ourselves
can not specify whether it even possible, much less how they obtain.

Into the interior of nature observation and dissection penetrates
the phenomena and one can not know how far this move with the times
will be.

But those transcendental questions which go beyond nature, we would at
all, but never the answer, if we also feel that the whole of nature
would be revealed because it is not even given us is our own mind
with a different opinion, as our inner meaning to observe.

Because in that lies the secret of the origin of our sensuality. Their
relationship to an object, and what the transcendental ground of
this unity that is without doubt too deeply hidden, that as we,
even we ourselves only through inner sense, thus as a phenomenon,
familiar, so unseemly our search tool to do could be something else
than always turn appearances detect whose nichtsinnliche cause we
wanted to explore it gladly.

What makes this criticism of the inferences from the mere act of reflection,
very useful, is: that the nullity of all conclusions about objects
that are Reason is only in comparing, distinctly dartut, and one that
also confirmed what we have mainly eingeschärft: that, despite appearances
is not as things in themselves even among the objects of the pure mind
are grasped with, but they are the only ones in which our knowledge can
have objective reality, namely, where the terminology is illustrative.

If we just reflect logical, so we only compare our concepts with
each other in mind, if both contain just the same whether they are
contradictory or not, whether something in the terms contained
internally is, or added to it, and which of the two given, but which
only one species, the prevailing thinking should apply.

I turn these concepts to a subject at all (in Transz. Reason), without
this further to determine whether it is an object of sensuous or
intellectual intuition is so immediately evident limitations (not to go
out from this terminology), which all empirical use of the same service,
and thus also prove that the idea of a article, Dinges than ever, not
only inadequate but without sensuous determination thereof, and
regardless of empirical condition in itself is conflicting, so that
either all abstract objects (in logic), or, if one accepts it under
conditions of sensuous intuition must think, therefore, the
intelligibility a particular opinion, we do not have, would require,
and in the absence of that for us nothing, but also the phenomena
are not objects to yourself can be.

Because if I just think about things, then certainly the diversity of
external conditions is not a variety of matters represent themselves,
but this requires much more advance, and, if the notion of the One
from the inside of the others is not distinguished, so I set only
one and the same thing in different circumstances.

Furthermore, by Hinzukunft a mere affirmation (reality) to another, so
the positives will increase, and nothing withdrawn or revoked, so
can the real things in any non-conflicting quarrel, etc. * * * The
terms of reflection, as we have shown, by a certain Mißdeutung such
an influence on the use of mind that even one of the sighted in all
philosophers to a supposed system of intellectual cognition, which
is his property without the Dazukunft makes sense to determine,
been able to tempt.

It was precisely in order deswillen is the evolution of deceptive
Amphibolie the cause of these terms, in the instance of false
principles, of great value, the boundaries of the mind to determine
reliable and secure.

We must say: what a term commonly given, or contradicts that comes to,
or contrary to particular particular what is meant by that term is included;
(dictum de Omni et Nullo;) unrhymed but it would be, then this logical
principle to change, so that he was: what happens in a general terms is
not included, this is also not in the particular, which are the
same, because these are just a matter of special terms, because
they are included in more than is commonly thought.

Now is really on the latter principle, the whole intellectual property
system built Leibniz, it is therefore also of the same, together with
all the ambiguity arising from his mind in use. The rate of
Nichtzuunterscheidenden is actually founded on the premise: that if,
in the words of one things have a certain distinction is encountered,
so it was not even in the things themselves exist and consequently all
things are totally making a (numero eadem), which is not already in their
terms (the quality or quantity) differ from each other. However, when
the mere words of some things by some necessary conditions of an
abstracted view, so, by a strange Übereilung that what is abstracted,
to put it anywhere that does not exist, and the things not recognized
as what in his words.

The notion of a cubic foot of space, I like this I think about where
and how often I wanted to, are making a completely. Only two cubic
feet are in the space just yet distinguished by their places (numero
diversa); these are conditions of intuition, in which the object of
this concept is outside of the terms, but to the whole sensuality
belong.

Same shape is in the words of one things no conflict if nothing
negative associated with an affirmative, and only positive terms
may, in combination, no lifting effect.

In the sensuous intuition, is a reality (eg, movement) is given,
there are conditions (opposite directions), of which in terms of movement
at all was abstracted, a conflict that is not logical, namely louder
positively Zero = 0 Possible, and you could not say that about all the
reality attunement with each other, because under their terms do not
conflict is encountered *.

After simple terms is the interior of the substratum of all external
relation or regulations.

So if I go by all conditions of visual abstraction, and me only to the
notion of a think about things, I can of all external relation to abstract,
and it must still a concept from the left, which no relation at
all, but merely internal rules means.

As it seems now, it follows that: In all things (matter) is something that
simply is internally, and all external action provisions by it all
makes it possible, therefore this substratum is something which requires
no external conditions are more in contains straightforward: (because
the physical things but are always conditions, except at least the parts
themselves;) and because we simply do not know internal rules, as
by our inner sense, it is this substratum not only easy, but also (after
the analogy with our inner sense) determined by ideas, of all things
would actually monads, or simple ideas gifted education.
We went to meet him,
and halted ten paces from him at his command. I had told the sentry to
reply for me, and he answered the officer's hail and said,--

'Vilcaroya!--a prisoner.'

[Illustration: It had smitten him to the heart.

_To face page 228._]

As the first words left his lips the two soldiers repeated the password
and made with their rifles the movement that is called the salute. My
knife was already in my hand, and as the officer gave a command in
Spanish, it flashed once in the starlight and the next instant was
buried to the hilt in his breast. And this does it a little. What
is easier to change than a title? The remaining deviations of the
German author of the originals disadvantage more benefits to the piece
and give it the local reputation that almost all of the French theater
pieces borrowed lacking. The eighteenth evening (Friday, 15 May) was
"The specter of drum "played. This piece of writing is actually
the top of her Addison. Addison has only a tragedy and a comedy
made.

The dramatic poetry ever was not his subject. But a good white head
anywhere from trading to draw, and so have his two pieces, if not the
highest beauty of its genus, at least others who are still very estimable
works to make.

He was looking for one with both the other with the French approach
to more regularity, but for twenty Addison, and this regularity is
never referred to the tastes of the English are. satisfied that
those who do not higher Kennet beauties!

Destouches, England in personal dealings with Addison had had drew
the same over a comedy nor French bars.

We play it after its revision, in the really much more subtle and natural,
but also some cool and powerful have become loose. If I'm not mistaken,
however, it has Gottsched Madame, from the German translation herschreibt,
the English original and hand made and some good idea to back hergestellet.
The nineteenth evening (Monday, 18 May) was "The married philosopher ",
of Destouches repeated. Regnard's" Democritus "was one piece, which
is the twentieth evening (Tuesday, 19 May) was gespielet. This
comedy of errors abound and inconsistencies, and still like it. The
connoisseur laughs so heartily, as ignorance of the mob. What follows
from this?

That the beauty that it has true beauty must be general, and the error may
be only arbitrary rules, which you can easily put more than the art
word judges want. He has no unit of the local observed: he likes. He has
all the usual sight of the set: after all. He sees the true Democritus
Democritus in no pieces similar to Athens is a very different Athens,
as we know well now, so we emphasize Democritus and Athens, and just
put forged name. Regnard is certainly as good as another known that
around Athens, not desert, and no tigers and bears were that, at the
time of Democritus, had no king, etc.

But he has all itzt not want to know his intention was the morals of his
country under the name of the attack. This portrayal is a masterpiece
of the comic poet, and not the historical truth. Other errors to be
harder to excuse, the lack of interest, the bald Verwickelung, quantity
idle persons, the chatter of abgeschmackte Democritus, why not just
abgeschmackt because it contradicts the idea that we have from the
Democritus, but because it is nonsense to each other's lips would
be the poet would like to have known him, as he wanted. But what one
sees is not in good mood, in which we Strabo and Thaler set?

The character of Strabo is nevertheless difficult to determine, you do
not know what to make of him, he changed his tone against anyone
with whom he speaks, he is soon a fine Scoffers witty, soon became
a glaring jokers, soon became a gentle school Fuchs , is coming to
an insolent dandy.

His identification with the Kleanthis is incredibly funny, but unnatural.
The way in which Mademoiselle Beauval and La Thorillière these scenes
played first, has grown from an actor to another, from one to
another actress reproduced.

They are the faces indecent, but because the tradition in the French
and Germans geheiliget, so no one ways; the point that something should
be change, and I am most careful not to say that they are hardly
in the lowest Posse tolerate Games should be.

The best, funny and exported character is the character of Thales, a
true peasant, and even schalkisch; full of malicious purring, and,
from the poetic side, nothing less than episodic, but the dissolution
of the nodes as well as becoming essential. [1] ---- footnote [1] "Histoire
du Théâtre Français, T. XIV. p. 164th ---- footnote Eighteenth piece
of the 30th Junius 1767 The twenty-first night (mittewochs, 20
May), the comedy of Marivaux 'The wrong of confidential information
"below.

Marivaux has almost an entire half-century for the theater in Paris to
work, his first piece is from the year 1712, and his death was 1763,
in an age of seventy-two. The number of his comedies amounts to some
thirty, of which more than two Dritteile the harlequin, because they
are for the Italian stage manufactures. This also includes "The wrong
confidential", the 1736 first, with no particular applause gespielet,
two years later but again hervorgesucht, and received the greater.
His plays, so they are also rich in diverse characters and entanglements
are faced with each other nevertheless very similar. In all of the same
sparkling and often overly popular joke in all of the same
metaphysical dissection of the passions, the same in all the flowery,
neologische language.

His plans are only a very small extent, but as a true Kallipides his
art, he knows the narrow district with a lot of the same so small and
yet so noticeably stepped steps to go through that we will be a long
way still with him have traveled to believe. Since the Neuberin, sub
auspiciis Sr. Magnificence of the Lord Prof. Gottsched the Harlekin
publicly banished from their theater, all German stages, which was keen
to regularly read this banishment geschienen join. I say geschienen,
because in fact they had only the colorful jackets, and the name
removed, but keep the fools.

The Neuberin himself played a lot of pieces in which Harlekin the main
character was. Harlekin But Johnny was with her, and was completely white,
instead scheckicht dressed. Truly, a great triumph for the good taste!
Also "The false confidentiality" have a Harlequin, in a German translation
has become Peter. The Neuberin is dead, Gottsched is dead: I dächte,
we prefer his jacket again .-- In Serious and when he under foreign
names to tolerate it, why not also under his own? "He is a foreign
creature," says one. What is this? I wanted that all the fools among
us would be aliens! "He wears, as there is no man among us bears" - so
he need not have long to say who he is.

"It is absurd for the same individual every day in another pieces
appear to be seen." You need him as no individual, but as a whole class
view, it is not Harlekin, now in "Timon," tomorrow's "hawks", the day
after tomorrow in the "wrong confidential", like a true Hans in all
lanes, vorkömmt; but there are Harlekin; the genre is suffering one
thousand varieties, the "Timon" is not the "hawks", those who lived
in Greece, in France only because their making a main character traits,
has them making a name left. Why do we want Ekler in our pleasures and
wähliger against bare Vernünfteleien yielding, when - I do not want to
say that the French and the Italians - but, as even the Romans and
Greeks were? Was it something different parasite, as the harlequin? Had
he not his own, distinctive dress, in which he plays in one over the
other happens?

Had the Greeks not own drama that has always had to be inserted Satyri,
they want now in the history of the piece, or not? Harlequin has a few
years ago, his case before the judge chairs the true criticism, with as
many spirits as thoroughness, verteidiget.

I recommend the treatise of Mr. Möser on the comic-grotesque all my
readers, they still do not know, they know whose voice I know. There will
be a passing of a certain writer said that he possesses enough
insight, dermaleins eulogist of the Harlequin them. Itzt is it has
become! you think. But no, he has always been. The throw to him from Mr
Möser resist the Harlekin sets in the mouth, he could have never done,
nor even to have thought out. Besides the Harlekin ways; the point in
the "wrong confidentiality" another servant, which was the whole plot
führet .

Both were very well played, and our theater has to take place in the
Lords, and Hensel Merschy a few actors who get to the Bedientenrollen
little better demand. The second night (Thursday, 21 May) was the
"Zelmire" Mr Du Belloy aufgeführet.

Belloy The name you can not is unknown to the French in the newer literature
is not entirely a stranger is. The author of the "Siege of Calais"! If
this piece is not deserved, that the French are such a noise did so, but
enough so that even the cries of the French honor. It shows them as a
people, based on his fame is jealous; on the great deeds of his ancestors
the impression is not lost, which, by the values of a poet and of the
influences of the theater on virtue and moral conviction, those not
part of its useless limbs counts, this is not one of the objects
zählet, the only trouble busy loafer.

How far are we in the U.S. still plays behind the French! We promise
straight out: we are against them, nor the true barbarians! Barbaric,
barbaric than our forefathers, which a singer song a very estimable
man, and, in all their indifference to arts and sciences, the question
whether a bard, or a , with Bärfellen and amber that the citizens would
be more useful?

certainly on the question of a fool thought - I like my scout in Germany,
where I want, the city will still build, from the expected would be that
they only the thousandth part of the respect and gratitude to a
German writer would have to Calais against Du Belloy had.

You know it always for French vanity: how far we still have out
before we as a vanity to be able to be!

What wonder, too? Our scholars themselves are small enough, the nation
in its disdain everything about it, not just the bag füllet. You talking
about a work of genius, of whatever you want, you speak of the
encouragement of artists, you would like to see a rich flourishing
city of honest recreation for men, in their shops the day and the
heat load carried, and the useful to shorten time for others who
do not want to have shops, (but at least it will be the theater?)

by their mere participants may wish aufhelfen: - and see and hear
for themselves. "Dem Himmel sei Dank, calls not only to the Wucherer
Albinus, "that our citizens more important things to do!" ------ Eu!
Rem poteris servare Tuam! - important? More profitable, which I have
to admit!

Profitable among us, is nothing in the slightest with the free
movement of arts in conjunction stand. But, - haec animos aerugo he
cura peculî Cum Semel imbuerit - But forget me. How it all belongs to
the "Zelmire? Du Belloy was a young man, who lay on the rights wanted
to or should. If it will probably have been more. For the love of
the theater kept the upper hand, he laid aside the Bartolus and
became comedian.

He played for some time under the French troupe at Brunswick, made several
pieces that came back to his homeland and was swiftly through a
few tragedies as happy and famous, just as it always Rechtsgelehrsamkeit
would make if he also would have become Beaumont.

Woe betide the young German genius, which this path wanted! Contempt
and begging would be his conscientious lot! The first game of the
mourning You Belloy called "Titus" and "Zelmire" was his second. "Titus"
was no applause, and was only ever played. But "Zelmire" was the
greater, it was fourteen times in a row that the Paris and had not yet
seen enough of it. The content is from the poet's own invention. A
French judge art [1] took this opportunity to stand up to the
funeral games of this genre ever to explain: "We would be," he says,
"a matter of history have been far better.

The Jahrbücher the world are notorious crimes so rich, and the tragedy
is so strongly encouraged that we are the major actions of real heroes
to admiration and imitation should imagine. By then the tribute paid
by the posterity of their ash is guilty, they fired while the hearts
of Itztlebenden with the noble desire to give them equal to them. You do
not do that, 'Zaire', 'Alžir', 'Mahomet' but only births of fiction
would be.

The names of the first two are fictional, but the Because of the events
is historical. It has really given the Crusades, in which Christians
and Turks, to the glory of God, their common father, hated and choked.
The conquest of Mexico have the necessary happy and sublime contrasts
between European and American customs, between the enthusiasm of the
true religion, and express them. And as for the 'Mahomet' is concerned,
it is to extract the essence, so to speak, from the entire life of this
fraudster, and the fanaticism, shown in action, the most beautiful
philosophical paintings, ever from this dangerous monster has been made.
"---- footnote [1]" Journal Encyclopédique "Juillet 1762nd ---- Nine
tithe pieces footnote 3 Julius 1767 It is every one to see, his own tastes
have, and it is notable, from his own tastes to seek accountability.

But the reasons by which it wants to justify a public issue, which, if
its accuracy would enable him to be the only true flavors would make,
is from the frontiers of research-lover go out and become a stubborn
legislature rise. The French writer cited begins with a modest "We
would have preferred" and is generally connected to so continue
sayings that you should believe, that we had from the mouths of the critics
themselves came. The true art judge concludes no rules in his tastes, but
his taste in accordance with the rules established by the nature of
things erfodert. Now it has long since Aristotle decided how far the
tragic poets of the historical truth to have trouble, not more, than to
a well-fable is similar, with whom he can connect his intentions.

He needs a story not about because they happened, but because it so
happened, that it is difficult to improve its current purpose could
invent. He finds this decency of ohngefähr on a true event, it shall
be welcome to the real case, but the history books only after a long
strike, not worth the trouble. And how many people know because of
what happened? If we consider the possibility that something can happen,
so just want to remove, because it happened: what prevents us, an
entirely fictional story for a really happened to keep history from
which we have never heard?

What is the first, this gives us a history of credibility? Is it not
their inner probability? And it is not of whether the probability of no
bestätiget testimonies and traditions, or those which our science has
never come?

It is adopted without reason, that there is a provision of the theater
with was the memory of great men to obtain, this is the story, but not
the theater. In the theater we do not learn what this or that individual
has done, but what every man of a certain character under certain
circumstances do so.

The intention of the tragedy is more philosophical, as the intention
of the story, and it means they reduce their true dignity when they
are at a bare Panegyrikus famous men make, or even to nourish the
Nationa1stolz abused.

The second reminder of the same French Art against the judge
"Zelmire" of Du Belloy is important. He chides that they are almost
nothing but a tissue varied wonderful coincidences that the narrow space
in the twenty-four hours compressed, would be incapable of all
illusion.

A strange situation recessed on the other! String a theater on the other!
What happens is not everything! what you do not have to keep everything!
Where the circumstances so pressing, can hardly be all prepared
enough.

What surprised us so much, we are alienating much more readily than
surprising. "Why should the record of the tyrant Rhamnes discover
what forces the Antenor him to reveal his crimes? ILUs Does not like from
the sky?

Is the change of mood Rhamnes not too quickly? Up to the moment,
as he stabs the Antenor, he participates in the crimes of his master
to the most determined way, in part, and if he once geschienen to feel
remorse, he had it but once again suppressed. What causes minor
hiernächst sometimes the poet is not the most important things! Polydor
So when he ways; the point of the battle and in turn, wants to hide
the tombs, the Zelmire turn their backs, and the poet must carefully this
little fact einschärfen. Because if Polydor otherwise would, if he the
face of the princess, instead turned its back: it would they
recognize him, and the following scene, where these gentle daughter
unknowingly her father survived his executioners, such as vorstechende
to all spectators as big impression making scene fell away.

Would it nevertheless does not have natural far, if Polydor, he returned
to flees the tomb, which Zelmire noticed you added a word call or
even just a Wink would have been? Admittedly it would have been natural,
than that the whole last act is now on the way Polydor is whether he is
back then, there Come back, must be found. With the ticket of Azor,
it has the same explanation: it was the soldier in the second act with
the same as it would bring to it, it was the tyrant entlarvet, and
the piece had an end. "The translation the "Zelmire" is only in
prose. But who does not prefer a körnichte, melodious prose want to hear,
as a matte, just brecht verses? Among all our rhyming translations are
hardly half a dozen who are bearable.

And that's not me with the words take you to call! I would rather
know where I stop, as where I should start. The best is in many places
dark and ambiguous, and the Frenchman was not the greatest Versifikateur
but stümperte and patched, and the Germans, it was even less, and
while he is tried, the lucky and unlucky same lines of his original
faithfully translate, so It is natural that more often, there was
only Lückenbüßerei or tautology was here to cure had to be nonsense.

The term is usually so low and so rejected the construction that
the actor all his nobility is needed, that aufzuhelfen, and all his
mind brauchet these not only fail to leave.

His declamation easier, it is not completely thought! Verlohnt But it
also because of the difficulty of French verses so much hard work to
turn up in our language as watery correct, just grammatically verses
to be cold? If we, however, the whole of the French poetic jewelry
into our prose, it is our prose is just not very poetic will. There
is still a long way Zwitterton arising from the prose translations of
English poets has arisen in which the use of the tropics and boldest
figures, except for a bound kadensierten Wortfügung us to think
Besoffen leaves the dance without music.

The term will not exceed the daily language is not more effective
than the theatrical declamation about the usual tone of the collection
of social entertainment. AND THUS I wished our translators rather prosaic
many successors, whether I immediately think of Houdar de la Motte'm not
that Silbenmaß überhaupt ein was childish compulsion to which the
dramatic poet least have cause to subjugate. Ways; the point here because
it just depends on, among the smallest of two evils to choose
either of the intellect and vigor Versifikation, or those aufzuopfern.

The Houdar de la Motte was awarded to his opinion, he had a language in
thought, in the poetry of the Metric only tickle the ears and to
strengthen the expression, nothing can contribute to ours, however, it
is a little more, and we can Greek disproportionately come closer,
through the mere rhythm Versarten their passions, which is to be expressed
to indicate the interview.

The French verses are nothing more than the value of the supernatant of
difficulty for himself, and admittedly this is just a very miserable
figure. Antenore The role of Mr.

Borchers has played extremely well, with all the calm and serenity, to
a great bad guys of understanding as naturally seem to be. No abortive
attack will put him in a predicament, he is always scheming new
inexhaustible, it is difficult bethinks, and the unexpected spread of him
in his nakedness represent threatened, receives a turn to him the
larva only solid aufdrückt.

This character is not spoil, is the actor from the true memory, the final
vote, the freest, negligence necessary action needed. Hr. Borchers
has ever so many talents, and this has been a favorable bias to awaken
him, that he is in the same old roles like übet than in young. This
zeuget by his love of art, and the connoisseurs immediately distinguishes
him from so many other young actors who only ever on the stage to
shine, and their little vanity, in a loud galant amiable roles begaffen
admire and to let her make probably even more often their only occupation
is to the theater.

Twenty piece of the 7th Julius 1767 The twenty-third day (Friday, 22 May)
was "Ceni" aufgeführet. This excellent piece of Graffigny had the
Gottschedin to translate into the hands fall. After the confessions,
which they themselves test, "that the honor which was through translation
or preparation theatrical pieces may acquire all time only to have
kept very mediocre," it is easy to assume that they, these mediocre honor
obtain only a very mediocre effort would have applied. I gave it the
justice to be brought some funny pieces of Destouches has not
spoiled.

But how much easier it is, a Schnurre to translate, as a sensation! The
ridiculous, the funny and Unwitzige after say, but the language of the
heart can only take heart. It has its own rules, and it is happening
all around them, as soon as this and she ignores the rules of grammar
and submit it with all the cold completeness, all the boring clearly wants
to give us the sentences in a logical demand. pm Dorimond the
Méricourt has a substantial connection, as well as the fourth part
of its assets, assigned.

But that is the least what Méricourt goes, he rejects the offer of generous
and wants him out altruism seem to have refused. "What is that?" he says.

They all
three rose to meet me as I entered the throne-room, and Ruth coming
forward with both hands outstretched, as she had never done before,
said,--

'What have you been doing all this time, Vilcaroya, and why are you
looking so worn and haggard? Have--have you been fighting? And why have
you come back here alone?'

'Yes,' I answered, taking her hands into mine, and feeling all my blood
turn to flame as their gentle pressure thrilled along my nerves. 'Yes,
we have been fighting, and the Lord of Light has fought upon our side,
for we have gained the victory, and the city is ours.'

'Thank God for that!' she said; 'and that no harm has come to you--or to
Captain Hartness.'

'What! do you mean to say you have taken Cuzco already?' cried the
professor. 'How on earth did you manage that so quickly?'

'Because,' I replied, 'as I told you, my father the Sun fought on my
side and turned the hearts of his children towards me, and so Francis
Hartness led them to speedy victory, and the hearts of our enemies
fainted within them, and they have yielded. Now I have come to tell you
how it happened, and to take Joyful Star back to the city, where she
shall be hailed as queen.'

Then I sat down with them and told them all, from the taking of the
Governor and his officers prisoners by the Sayacusca to the capture of
the Cuartel and the making of Francis Hartness Governor of Cuzco. The
evening brings us together again here, then we want to discuss the
full glass, who edlern a victory is to rejoice? Her! or I! All. Holla to
hunt!

(Everything from.) (Horns drown.) Dumont (still abides by the window until
all the others out the door, then he calls) Heavenly nature! (and
follows after the other). Zehnter appearance Then rushing music
transformation into a golden Feenhalle, backwards in the prospect
of a lovely mountain area.

In the middle of the hall a big round mirror magic, before him a golden
altar with a victim of shell on stage.

Cheristane in a light blue robe wrapped rough, which is adorned with magical
characters, and the head with a golden crown decorated, comes from
the side, a golden book and a wand-bearing.

Cheristane. The fight is made, I was defeated. Adopted ists, I distinguished
from the Earth. Even if my heart is subject to the grief, I suffer
just that he would be rescued.

(It is of Pinking the middle of its crown a blue pearl.) Come on, expensive
pearl, which surrounds the spirit, the last of bends before my power,
the earliest for him in idle nothing dissolves, I opfre you this
golden shaft.

(It raises the pearl in the golden bowl. A blue flame ignited in her,
the thunder rolls. Short music. The mirror covers with smoke.) Now
show thy head, surrounded by magic illusion, And look at me with Holden
Demantaugen! Erscheinung!

It should be Azur thy name! Let me hope from your words suck! (Musik.
- terrible thunder. The smoke rises and the mirror appears Azur in
Silberdock Egyptian dress, the head is wrapped, the halbentblößten
arms and the face is with blue foil, instead of the two eyes shining
stones.

Magische lighting.) Azur. You! me through the magic power was born, my
area you a blessing or a curse? Cheristane. Flott To protect Wells spirit,
I chose you. Azur. Can I be? Look in the book of fate!

(Now followed by a trembling music underneath.) "No Fatum rule on his
life, he bring himself to misfortune or blessing. He can only be alone
to warn By misfortune he himself can only umgarnen, And because
it is free from all chains of fate, Can it be I only rescue from
shame.

"Cheristane. I am aware of the fate of strict acquittal, The, to punish
me, dreamed up is low. Receive my golden here spellbook. It will teach
you what My List liebgequälter clever mind has invented. But I must
machtberaubt by Hinnen fliehn. That's why you take me instead of the
deed And let me not, in my desolate home ziehn. Azur (takes the book).
Zieh quiet home, faithful to you I want to act As rescuers again
shalt thou behold me.

(The cloud closes. Music.) Cheristane. Oh, hätt ichs never dared to walk
on earth, to ask that this desire punisheth delight! (It falls on knees
and bows her head before sorrowful the altar.) Eleventh plaintive music
gig in transformation in a short forest.

On the side of a hill thicket. hunters pull on the scene. choir hunting.
Gilts, forests to roam, free Hebet the chest.

Kühn to attack the boar, Is highest pleasure of the hunter. Ho ho! Ho ho!
Weidgesellen happy! If the track was found, he wallows in the black blood
that is reflected in his wounds yet last embers of the evening.

Ho ho! Ho ho! Huntsman is happy! Subtracting custom home to hunters,
the night beckons us to trust Ruh, examining his Liebchen lodge Closes
Pförtlein softly. Ho ho! Ho ho! Hunter bride is happy! (All from.)
(Valentin, who was hiding in the bushes, coming out.) Valentin. Because
of my continued their hunt, as long as you want. Ich werd mich da so
wildschweinmäßig treatment. I schießet all together, the Sappermenter
if I am only a tap on shotguns hätt. I can not understand what the people
make the damn game ever have. What song is but the Lord, even the rich
life so difficult! To s' cattle plague and people, need s' hunt every
week. God forgive me my sins, I do not understand what dran find this
creep in the canyons That Smell by Juchten.

In short, in all seriousness said, 'here are not stupid as hunting.
Even three o clock is the hour for the people and for the dog. Each
comes with its socket, And catch da s' to the groom. After racing s'
possessed, without a morsel z 'eat whole days by the forest, And
that is a entertainment! Ah, this is where God eim bewahrn, D 'hunters
are all Narrn. In short, hunting let me stay. What the hunters are driving
boys, How s' me habn herumgestoßen, hätt Soon I shot myself.

Over a hundred thousand roots eim Leave the guy jumbled, and is hardly
seen on the nose, tuck s' at all to blow, And the hot s' a hunt!

Oh, the sky seis sued. Müde as a ghetzter Has Putting into cool grass,
Believe, because it is all alone, When a huge pig. And we can not
want to fight, come back a couple of bears, on the pages of a few
tigers, And yet God knows what for cattle, And since you are the
midst of it all !

But I hold no meaning. (Expires.) Repetition No, the kind I have in mind.
D 'hunter so you can not offend. Indeed, if no hunter would Fräßen us
at the end bears.'

S Wildpret wants you to enjoy, but whereas a shoot . Bratne woodcock,
hazel hens, God, how do the Viennese!

And I agree with them: Hunting and Wildpret must be. (Ab) Twelfth appearance
transformation A lovely area in the background, a clear lake, enclosed
by lovely mountains.

Right, a rock above him in the entrance Cheristanens rock cave, before
which she in her previous costume, but without a crown, and looks into
the distance. Cheristane.

Now, he has quickly climbed the steep Höh and is the sweet looking
Minnas hut send, which he mentioned that they are always his favorite
umschirme. So it may be because for the last sight of her look. (Short
Music. It transforms into a lovely peasant girl, in the Italian
flavors delicately dressed, and declines rapidly in the rock, which
to a friendly hut, the vines and flowers entwined is and from which
door it is surprisingly fast.

At the same time, transform the scenes in oriental goldgesäumte large
flowers and palm trees that are still viable against the middle of the
stage. After thinking she is in front of a lawn with flower curtain
Bank.) Ah! themselves, they may only warn With luck and misfortune
itself umgarnen And since he is free from all chains of fate, Could he
himself only saved from ignominy. O fate dimmer acquittal of a child
leihet wings and his angels steals. Vorige Thirteenth appearance. Flottwell.
Flottwell (happy).

Sunny day, my expensive girl who was not angry that I even appeared
so late, because my desire has been long with you. But - say! what
is you? You're sad!

Who did what to hurt himself? Jealousy haunts you? Are you sick?
Saddened? Say! Or do you want me grieve? Cheristane (is moving up).
You? my Julius, no, I will not! (Loops her arms around his neck and sets
her head to his chest.) Flottwell. So you're only half of my
otherwise very happy. The good half is missing, and only the turbid rests
on my chest. Come, let us make peace, trust child. You ahnest not what
I'm happily agrees. Thou shalt no longer dwell in thy hut. You need me
tomorrow to my palace follow.

Too long adorned the bridal wreath Seidner your curls, he might otherwise
wither on your forehead. The world must be as my faithful wife greet
thee, thou must be no longer resist. Cheristane. Oh, more 'is not my
sorrow! Drag me to this height, it shows a paradise to me that I may never
enter. I have deceived you!

I am not the creature that you at this moment still looking for me.
Flottwell. Be what you want. Listening not only to the kindness to be.
Three years have passed it when I am on the hunt to hieher and lost for
the first time you saw. Your beauty shone strange in the Low hut like
a gem in one hand beggar. You opened your heart to me. But I never was
allowed to explore, where you did and who you seist.

And look! I was so obedient as a child, you have never andre Frag heard
me as if you'll ever love. You searched the area into an Eden here
transforms and test plant flowers as they only decorate the Indian
dreams.

I've never asked you how you became such power, wars me enough room and
that done for me.

Cheristane. You, they were doomed, but they flourished in vain. They
should thy soul into their circles duftgen ziehn and you experience
the true value of Fortune teach.

I have not been met. Among wild is your imagination, be highly desirable.
You want your life, a shimmering banquet, and draw the world to your
golden plate. Oh, let them once dirs with love worth!

Flottwell. They will do it, show not so gloomy sense. Come, follow me like
you're sick with loneliness.

Cheristane. Free. Too late! You can no longer hold me, hug me for the
last time tonight. Flottwell (wild and fierce). It must not happen. Who
dares to prey on my favorite Good?

- Cheristane. The fate! Flottwell. Believe it not! My luck has courage,
so fast it can not be beat. (Umschlingt it.) I do not let you out of my
arm, even if you are unfaithful, I will love thee, until thou to me
wiederkehrst. (Musik. - In this moment, flies a red eagle with a
golden crown on his head across the lake.)

Cheristane . Across from me, (for themselves) I already feel my power
offense. Do you see the purple-red Aar, his main befiedert adorned with
a crown? Flottwell. What are you speaking for? No bird gets here! (Musik.
- A group of fog-figures, whose eyes menacingly on Cheristane is
addressed, flying over the lake.) Cheristane. Not even the threat
of figures that I am returning to my call? Taken just ahead, I will
soon follow. (Looking after rigid.) Flottwell. My expensive child, how
did you get seriously ill! Say at what are these figures? and who is
crowned the Aar? Cheristane (solemnly). Illmaha the Feenkönigin.

(It drops down and bends her head. Then she continues.) Wisse
because no human beings, you have to hold your heart. Cheristane is
my name, I'm from the Feiengeschlechte, my home, the distant clouds,
in the magic circles ewgen about Persia and Arabia draw. Flottwell. Is
in the clouds Lieb crimes, punishes them there a curse of fate?
then yes, the earth would be a celestial and eternal exile? Cheristane.
Oh, hear me before you lästerst! Already there are three times
seven years that I entered your star.

In order to benefit the earth to practice, the Queen sent me. They
expressed a pearl crown on my head and forever young said: In each of
these gems is a magic included, which you can use in any form. Use them
with wisdom of human salvation. If you have the latest Pearl sacrificed,
is your kingdom to an end, and you return back to punishment or reward
in front of my throne to receive them. Woe to you, if you are happy,
and so unworthy the noble treasure of the penurious escape .-- (pause,
in which they are meaningful and Julius looked wistfully.)

Whether ichs done is show me the future - I still had a lot of beads,
as I am thy father's palace before the siebzehnjährgen Julius saw.

You were so hold as the spring time, and I could not, my liebgereiztes
Aug to contact you. From that moment I had your happiness in me decided,
and many dissolved pearls I want my crown, and strewed them on thy
father and thy head. Hence the unermeßne wealth that he acquired in a
short time. Oh, hätt ichs never done! He died. Beweint not from ingratitude,
from thee alone. Wards of the goods you Lord, and now I only recognize
that everything I do to your well-thought through your passion you used
to be misfortune. I could no longer my heart zones, I led you've hieher
and since that time my greatest happiness in your love found.

Now the dream is over. My beads are wasted, and the last one I still
have the benefit of your sacrifice. Once I did not care that it is the
symbol bittrer tears could be. Flottwell. O Cheristane! what hast thou
done? I do not run and throw everything out when you have me stay. And
you pull away, take my life with. Cheristane. Oh, you're generous
like a king, you could be a world away to a mosquito lives to obtain. But
I will not abuse your generosity. Schenkenberger me a year of your
life only. One year that I must choose to which you never do right.
Flottwell. Oh, take it out!

Take everything out! Take the happiest, the only one that umfängt the
nichtswürdge bliss that I still enjoy it without you. Cheristane. I thank
you, I will not deprive hard. And now I am taken from falling, you
irdscher Tand! Only this rock like a mysterious witness that Cheristane
on earth has once loved. (Melancholic music. It transforms itself into
the shape of a lovely nymph.

At the same time turns the cabin into a rock that is umwunden with
flowers, palm trees of the same weeping willows will be overshadowed,
and to what the name Cheristane entrenched.

The flowers tend to be practicable, and from the thicket delicate
genii stand out and fall to mourning Cheristanens feet).

The sun drops, the flowers tend their heads, genii, and my silent cry,
because they with me the beautiful Earth must be avoided. The time has
arrived! Exile beckons! (Musik.) Flottwell (crashes to move their
feet).

O Cheristane! Kill me! Cheristane. Thanks for your belongings fairly
sweet, my expensive earth friend! What saddens me, I can not say it to
you, you should not reveal our future lot, but you could be the
language of thunder and the storm howls understand you would Cheristane
to hear you complain. Oh, can I use my love to you in all human hearts
cast, I would be comforted by thee rich ziehn! (She goes into the
backdrop.

The genii follow her. Music starts. Cheristane flies Rosenschleiern
on which a sail geschwelltes shape of genii, which are delicately
painted, surrounded, so that the whole group offers a nice, slow
from the backdrop of the lake, where suddenly the entire group
abspiegelt.

At this moment she looks back again wehmutsvoll on Flottwell and calls.)
Julius, I remember! (Then she quickly hides in the dark veil their
heads, which prevents them mourning, and all of a sudden become rosy
sail the veil in Trauerflöre, and the genii of the group now in evening
lighting as painted by a magic stroke appears. The rosy clouds in dark
sky and only from a box unbewölkten her pale shimmer stars by. By
Cheristane in the opposite setting and floats) Flottwell (on the rock
falls and ausruft) O God, let me in my pain vergehn!

(The curtain falls slowly.) Second Lift Three years later, First appearance
tomorrow. In the background, the main fronts of Flott Wells newly
castle. At the foot of the broad steps which led to the palatial portals
lead, sits a beggar. Abgetragne clothes, but not ragged. Walking.
His hair is gray, and deep grief in his painting trains.

The morning sun illuminated him. Sideways is a gate through which one
sees the palace garden. In the distance can be seen on a hill that
formerly inhabited castle Flott Wells. The windows of the new castle are
open, in the great hall lights still burn. Flottwell and some guests
sit at the window.

Choir (Saale in the table). Let the buzz in the cup sparkling wine, anyone
who can sleep, is a pathetic Wicht. And also looks the morning
through the window, a sprightly carouser laughs in his face.

Ha! ha! ha! ha! (guffaw.) The Beggar (both with the choir). Oh, the poor
man hears Please And last him a morsel of bread! The wealth is enthroned
in your midst, Mich. expresses the lack bittre distress (The answer,
as his laughter song.) choir. The gloomy worried werft all overboard!
A gateway, not the joy of powerful recorded. Life just keeps the happy
word, Who never enjoyed, has himself hated. Ha! ha! ha! ha! beggars.
Oh, let me sue in vain, Be not too proud of your glory, I spoke like her
in golden days, drum punisheth me night of sorrow now.

(He lowers his head.) (Valentine and Pink come from the garden.)
Valentin. I've told you a hundred times already that you are familiar
with the valet is not so grossly shalt be. You know what it for a
malicious person, at the end verschwärzt he gave us the Lord. Rosa.
Still was not red and if you do not know.

I have coarse, because I'm virtuous person. Valentin. Ah, that's no
consequence. Because yes, the need Sesseltrager the most virtuous people
in the world. Rosa. Are you quite as simple as? Realize you do not yet,
that my valet nachschleicht anywhere, I do not even in a Kuchel
Ruh hab.

Valentin. Yes what he wants from you? Rosa. He wants me to make his chamber
servant.

Valentin. Kuchel in the outdoors? He should remain in his chamber when
he was a full valet is. You give it but not heard? Rosa. You do not want
that I tell him my opinion should. Valentin. But well! That I do not
know.
Evil Eyes is looking into my
heart and turning it cold!'

This Djama saw, though he did not understand her words, and the sight
brought the madness into his blood again. He shouted with a voice like
the cry of a wild beast in pain,--

'Curse you! I will have neither life nor liberty from you, but I'll have
your life for mine, and that will pay me better!'

As the last word left his lips he made a movement so quick that my eyes
could not follow it. The next instant he had wrenched the rifle from
the hands of the soldier on his right hand and levelled it at me. Even
as he did so Joyful Star flung herself with a scream upon my breast and
Hartness sprang forward from behind my throne-seat.

The rifle flashed. I heard a hissing sound close to my ear and a deep
groan and the fall of a body behind me. In the same moment Djama was
seized and flung to the ground, where he lay quite still and silent. I
rose to my feet, clasping Joyful Star for the first time in my arms, and
looked round. Hartness stood beside me unharmed, but old Ullullo, the
first friend that I had made in my new life among my own people, lay
dead behind my throne with a bullet through his forehead.

I had not forgotten that old training which taught an Inca warrior to
look on near-approaching death with unmoved eyes and unshaken heart, and
this was only such a hazard as I had taken a score of times before. 
But not just in person, with human reason true causality shows where
ideas and causes of action (the actions and their objects), namely the
moral, but also in view of the nature itself, Plato rightly sees
clear evidence of their origin from ideas .

A plant, an animal, the regular arrangement of the world structure
(probably including the whole natural order) clearly show that
they are only ideas are possible, although not a single creature, under
the individual conditions of its existence, with the idea of the most
perfect of its kind congruent (as little as the man with the idea
of humanity, which even he himself as the archetype of his actions
in his soul bears) that nevertheless those ideas in the highest
Reason individually, immutable, completely determined, and the
original causes of things are and only the whole of their connection
in space solely to that idea was entirely adequate.

If the exaggerated expression of the of age, then the momentum of the
philosopher of mind, from copeilichen consideration of the physical
world to the architectural link under the same purposes, ie for
ideas, go up, an effort that deserves respect and follow, but in
view of that what the principles of morality, law and religion are
concerned, where the ideas of the experience itself (the Good) until
all possible, although it never completely can be expressed, a very
peculiar merit, which is just a question does not recognize, because
you it just by the empirical rules to assess their validity as
principles, as it has to be repealed.

In consideration of the nature of experience gives us the rule by the
hand and is the source of truth, in view of the moral law, however,
experience is (unfortunately!) The mother of the ticket, and it is
highly reprehensible, the laws about what I should do, by the person
herzunehmen, or restrict it to what is being done.

Instead of all these considerations, the amount of execution in fact the
peculiar dignity of the philosophy of mind, we now face a not so shiny,
but not less meritorious work, namely: the floor to those majestic
buildings moral and just to make baufest in which all kinds of mole,
a course in vain, but with good confidence on the treasures grave
reason, find, and that the structure unsafe.

The transcendental use of pure reason, its principles and ideas that
are, therefore, to know exactly what we are now responsible for the
influence of pure reason and the value of that belonging to identify and
appreciate them. But before I initiate this preliminary set aside, I
would ask that, where philosophy at heart (which is said more than one
commonly encounters,) if it is through this and the following
should be convinced of the idea expressed its original meaning
according to protect, so he does not fernerhin under the other
expressions, which are usually all kinds of conception species
serene disorder called, advised and science are lost.

If there us not to appointments, each belonging Vorstellungsart are
reasonable, without that we need to have the property of another to
intervene. Here is a ladder that. The genus is imagination at all
(repraesentatio). Under her, the idea of consciousness (perceptio). A
perception that only on the subject, as the modification of its
condition refers is sensation (sensa), an objective perception is
cognition (cognitio).

This is either intuition or concept (intuitus vel conceptus).

That relates directly to the subject and is individually and this
indirectly, through a characteristic, which is more common things
can be.

The term is either an empirical or pure concept, and the mere notion, if
he only in understanding its origin (not in the pure sensuality of
the picture) is Notio. A term of Notion, the possibility of the experience
than is the idea or concept of reason. The one who once used to have
this distinction, it must be intolerable, the presentation of the red
color idea call to hear. It is not even Notion (mind word) to call.
The first book of the transcendental dialectic Second Section of the
transcendental ideas transcendental analysis gave us an example
of how the mere logical form of our understanding the origin of
pure concepts a priori, could contain the prior all experience Items
imagine, or rather the synthetic display unit, which alone an
empirical cognition of objects possible.

The form of judgments (in a notion of the Synthesis of views transforms)
categories brought attention to the use in mind all the experience
forward. Similarly, we can expect that the form of common sense
conclusions when they are on the synthetic unity of opinion, according
to the relevant categories, applies the origin of specific terms will
contain a priori what we mere rationality concepts, or transcendental
ideas can call, and the mind the use of camouflaged as a whole experience
will be determined in accordance with the principles.

The function of reason in their conclusions was the realization of the
general public for terms, and reason itself is a final verdict,
which a priori in the whole extent of his condition is determined. The
sentence: Cajus is mortal, I could also just through the mind draw from
the experience.

Solo I search a term, which contains the condition under which the predicate
(assertion at all) this ruling is given (ie here the notion of humans;)
and after I under this condition, in its full extent taken (all people
are mortal) have subsumed, so do I afterwards the object of my knowledge
(Cajus is mortal). Accordingly, we restrict the Conclusion in a sense
concluded a predicate to a certain object, after it previously in the top
sentence in his entire extent under a certain condition is thought
have. The completed size of the volume, in relation to such a condition,
namely the public (Universalitas). This corresponds to the synthesis
of the views Allheit (universitas), or totality of the circumstances.
So is the transcendental concept of no other reason than that of the
totality of conditions at a given conditional.

Now that the Unconditional alone the totality of the possible conditions
and, conversely, the totality of conditions at any time is itself
necessarily so can be a pure concept of reason at all by the notion of
absolute, if he reason the Synthesis of conditional includes, explained.
Soviel species the ratio is now there, the means of the mind of the
categories are, so many pure common sense terms, it will also give,
and it is therefore an imperative erstlich the categorical synthesis
in a subject, secondly, the synthesis of the hypothetical links
in a row, third, the mutually exclusive Synthesis of the parts in
a system to find his.

There is the same kind of sense circuits, each of which by the
unconditional Prosyllogismen progresses, a subject on which there is no
predicate, the other for the condition, which requires nothing more,
and the third party to an aggregation of the members of the division to
which nothing more is needed to the classification of a concept
to completion.

Therefore, the pure sense of the notions of totality in the synthesis of
conditions at least as tasks to the unity of mind, perhaps, to pursue
absolute, necessary and in the nature of human reason founded, it may
also incidentally these transcendental concepts to them in a appropriate
use in concreto missing, and they therefore have no purpose other than
the mind in the direction to bring to its use, it extends to the
extreme, both with itself through unanimously made.

By going here, but by the totality of conditions and the absolute,
as the titles of all common sense notions are talking, so we come again
to an expression that we not do and yet, after a long abuse of it by
adhering to ambiguity, can not safely do. The word absolute is one of
the few words that are in their primordial meaning of a word was
appropriate, after which the hand is no other word is exactly the
same language adapts, and its loss, or which is the same, its
fluctuating use, therefore, also the loss of the term, even after
being taken, either a term, which, because the reason he did very
busy, without much detriment of all transcendental assessments may
not be unfounded.

The word absolute is now often used to simply indicate that something of
a thing to itself, and therefore applies internally. In this meaning
would be perfectly possible to mean what to itself (internal) is possible,
which in fact is the least what one can say objects. On the other hand,
it is also sometimes used to indicate that something in the
relationship (unrestricted) is valid (eg, the absolute dominion,)
and would be perfectly possible in this one are important, which in all
intent in any relationship is possible, which in turn is the most is
what I am about the possibility of a thing to say.

Now take those meanings are sometimes together. So is the record,
which internally is impossible, even in a relationship, therefore,
absolutely impossible. But in most cases, they are infinitely far
apart, and I can in no way conclude that, because something in
itself possible, it is also all in relationships, therefore absolute,
was possible. Yes by the absolute necessity, I will follow in the
show that it does not in all cases depended on the inner, and thus was
not viewed as tantamount to be. Its opposite is impossible inwardly,
whose opposite is also clearly impossible in the intention,
therefore, it is absolutely necessary, but I can not conclude
conversely, what is absolutely necessary, whose contrary is impossible
inwardly, ie the absolute necessity of things is an internal need,
because this internal necessity is in some cases, a blank expression
with which we do not meet the minimum term you can connect, on the
other hand, the necessity of a thing in any relationship (on
everything) special provisions for him.

Because now the loss of a term of great use in the speculative philosopher,
the wisdom of the world will never be indifferent, I hope it will
tell him the determination and careful preservation of the expression
on which the concept depends, does not matter. In this expanded role
I will then of the word: absolutely, and use it merely comparative or
special consideration Valid oppose, because this latter is due to
conditions restringiert, but that shall be applied without restriction.

Now the transcendental concept of reason at any time only on the
absolute totality in the synthesis conditions, and never ends,
as in par, ie in every respect, absolutely. For the pure reason leaves
everything to the understanding, with an initial focus on the objects
of contemplation, or rather their synthesis in the imagination
relates.

Those reserves itself the absolute totality in the use of the terms mind,
and explores the synthetic unity, which in the category of thought,
until Schlechthinunbedingten hinauszuführen. One can therefore reason
that the unity of phenomena, such as those which the category expresses
unity call mind. So, therefore, refers only to the good sense to use
reason, not if this the reason of possible experience includes, (because
the absolute totality of conditions is not an experience in a useful
concept, because no experience is essential,) but to him the direction
to require a degree of unity which the mind has no concept, and the acts
beyond all intellect acts, in respect of each item, in an absolute
whole together.

Therefore, the objective use of Pure Reason transcendent terms at any
time, however, that the pure mental terms, by its very nature,
always be inherent, it is simply to restrict possible experience.

I understand the idea of a necessary sense notion, which no kongruierender
object in the senses can be met. So we are now considered pure transcendental
concepts of reason ideas. They are concepts of pure reason, because
they view everything as an experience knowledge as determined by an
absolute totality of conditions. You are not arbitrarily forged, but
by the nature of reason itself abandoned and therefore necessarily
refer to the whole mind use.

They are transcendent and eventually exceed the limit of all experience,
in which an object may never occur, the transcendental idea would
be adequate.

When one mentions an idea, then we say the object (as an object of
pure intellect) very much, but according to the subjects (ie in view
of his reality by empirical condition) just a matter of very little,
because, as the notion of a maximum, in concreto can never be congruent.
Because now that the latter merely speculative use of reason really is
the whole intention, and the terms for a rapprochement, but in the
exercise but never reached, the same is as if the term altogether
would be misguided, it is said by a similar terms: it is only an
idea.

So you would be able to say: the absolute whole of all appearances is
just an idea because, as we like never in the picture may develop,
so it remains a problem without any resolution.

On the other hand, because it is in the practical use of reason alone
to exercise in accordance with rules to do so, the idea of practical
reason at any time really, although only partially, in concreto be,
yes it is the indispensable condition of any practical use of the
reason. your exercise is always limited and defective, but not detectable
limits, ie at any time under the influence of the concept of
absolute completeness.

     Accordingly, the practical idea at all times and most fruitful
     in view of the imperative need real action. In it, the pure reason
     even causality that really produce what you term includes,
     therefore, can not the wisdom of almost contemptuous say it is only
     an idea, but precisely because it is the idea of the necessary
     unity of all possible purposes is, it must be all original as
     practical, the least restrictive, condition for the rule serve.
     
     The cup on my side was filled with blood-red wine and that
towards Joyful Star with pure water, crystal clear.

On what causes these antinomies based. 3.

Whether and to what kind of reason, yet in this conflict a way of
certainty remain open. A dialectical theorem of pure reason must be
that it all sophisticated sentences distinctive, in itself, that it is
not an arbitrary question, which you only somehow raises any
intention, but those in which any human reason in its progress must
come necessary, and secondly, that he, with his contrast, not just
a sham artificial, which, if it knows immediately disappears, but
a natural and inevitable slip in to do that even if you no longer
deceived by it is still deceptive, although not cheat, and therefore
is harmless, but can never vertilgt.

This dialectical doctrine will not affect the intellect unit in terms
of experience, but on the mere reason unity in ideas, the conditions
as they erstlich than synthesis according to rules. the understanding,
and yet at the same time, the same unit as the absolute, the sense
congruent if they sense the unit is adequate for the mind too large,
and where they are adequately understanding, for the reason will
be too small, because a resulting conflict must arise, which can
not be avoided, you may start it as you want. vernünftelnden These
allegations open up so a dialectical battle space, where each part
retains the upper hand, which has permission to do the attack, and
that certainly is subject to the just as defense is forced to
proceed.

Hence sprightly knight, it may be for good or bad thing promise, sure,
the victory wreath to wear them if they only ensure that the last attack
to do the prerogative, and not connected, a new seizure opponent's
bearable. One can easily imagine that this playground has always been
entered often enough that many victories by both sides erfochten, for
the latter, however, decided the matter, at any time had been provided
so that the defender of good cause the place alone retain , so that
his opponent was banned, fernerhin weapons in their hands to take. As
impartial judges we have completely put aside, whether good or bad
thing, what the dispute ends fight, and they only thing in itself
can be identified. Perhaps that after they are more tired than harm,
they dispute the nullity of their trade, and view themselves as
good friends apart.

d