

"Forsooth!" replied the Emperor, "they catch what they can! They have at
least caught a cask, while others have not caught anything at all."

The Mayor shut up, greatly vexed. Coqueville brayed. They understood
now. When barks are intoxicated, they dance as men do; and that one,
in truth, had her belly full of liquor. Ah, the slut! What a minx!
She festooned over the ocean with the air of a sot who could no longer
recognize his home. And Coqueville laughed, and fumed, the Mahés found
it funny, while the Floches found it disgusting. They surrounded the
"Baleine," they craned their necks, they strained their eyes to see
sleeping there the three jolly dogs who were exposing the secret springs
of their jubilation, oblivious of the crowd hanging over them. The abuse
and the laughter troubled them but little. Rouget did not hear his
wife accuse him of drinking up all they had; Fouasse did not feel the
stealthy kicks with which his brother Tupain rammed his sides. As for
Del-phin, he was pretty, after he had drunk, with his blond hair, his
rosy face drowned in bliss. Mar-got had gotten up, and silently, for the
present, she contemplated the little fellow with a hard expression.

"Must put them to bed!" cried a voice.

But just then Delphin opened his eyes. He rolled looks of rapture over
the people. They questioned him on all sides with an eagerness that
dazed him somewhat, the more easily since he was still as drunk as a
thrush.

"Well! What?" he stuttered; "it was a little cask--There is no fish.
Therefore, we have caught a little cask."

He did not get beyond that. To every sentence he added simply: "It was
very good!"

"But what was it in the cask?" they asked him hotly.

"Ah! I don't know--it was very good."

By this time Coqueville was burning to know. Every one lowered their
noses to the boat, sniffing vigorously. With one opinion, it smelt of
liquor; only no one could guess what liquor. The Emperor, who flattered
himself that he had drunk of everything that a man can drink, said that
he would see. He solemnly took in the palm of his hand a little of the
liquor that was swimming in the bottom of the bark. The crowd became
all at once silent. They waited. But the Emperor, after sucking up a
mouthful, shook his head as if still badly informed. He sucked twice,
more and more embarrassed, with an air of uneasiness and surprise. And
he was bound to confess:

"I do not know--It's strange--If there was no salt water in it, I would
know, no doubt--My word of honor, it is very strange!"

They looked at him. They stood struck with awe before that which the
Emperor himself did not venture to pronounce. Coqueville contemplated
with respect the little empty cask.

"It was very good!" once more said Delphin, who seemed to be making game
of the people. Then, indicating the sea with a comprehensive sweep,
he added: "If you want some, there is more there--I saw them--little
casks--little casks--little casks--"

And he rocked himself with the refrain which he kept singing, gazing
tenderly at Margot. He had just caught sight of her. Furious, she made a
motion as if to slap him; but he did not even close his eyes; he awaited
the slap with an air of tenderness.

The Abbé Radiguet, puzzled by that unknown tipple, he, too, dipped his
finger in the bark and sucked it. Like the Emperor, he shook his head:
no, he was not familiar with that, it was very extraordinary. They
agreed on but one point: the cask must have been wreckage from the ship
in distress, signaled Sunday evening. The English ships often carried to
Grandport such cargoes of liquor and fine wines.

Little by little the day faded and the people were withdrawn into
shadow. But La Queue remained absorbed, tormented by an idea which he no
longer expressed. He stopped, he listened a last time to Delphin, whom
they were carrying along, and who was repeating in his sing-song voice:
"Little casks--little casks--little casks--if you want some, there are
more!"


If that was presented to them verses composed, for example, printed
or manuscript could be the idol, which was perhaps dignación to
pretend that I read and understand them, but not read nor understand.

First of the village, La Queue had risen, still clouded from the dreams
of the night. He kept looking for a long time toward the sea, to the
right, to the left. At last, with a sour look, he said that he must in
any event satisfy M. Mouchel. And he went away at once with Tupain and
Brisemotte, threatening Margot to touch up her sides if she did not walk
straight. As the "Zéphir" left the harbor, and as he saw the "Baleine"
swinging heavily at her anchor, he cheered up a little saying: "To-day,
I guess, not a bit of it! Blow out the candle, Jeanetton! those
gentlemen have gone to bed!"

And as soon as the "Zéphir" had reached the open sea, La Queue cast his
nets. After that he went to visit his "jambins." The jambins are a kind
of elongated eel-pot in which they catch more, especially lobsters and
red garnet. But in spite of the calm sea, he did well to visit his
jambins one by one. All were empty; at the bottom of the last one, as
if in mockery, he found a little mackerel, which he threw back angrily
into the sea. It was fate; there were weeks like that when the fish
flouted Coqueville, and always at a time when M. Mouchel had expressed
a particular desire for them. When La Queue drew in his nets, an hour
later, he found nothing but a bunch of seaweed. Straightway he swore,
his fists clenched, raging so much the more for the vast serenity of the
ocean, lazy and sleeping like a sheet of burnished silver under the
blue sky. The "Zéphir," without a waver, glided along in gentle ease. La
Queue decided to go in again, after having cast his nets once more. In
the afternoon he came to see them, and he menaced God and the saints,
cursing in abominable words. In the meanwhile, Rouget, Fouasse, and
Del-phin kept on sleeping. They did not succeed in standing up until
the dinner hour. They recollected nothing, they were conscious only of
having been treated to something extraordinary, something which they
did not understand. In the afternoon, as they were all three down at the
harbor, the Emperor tried to question them concerning the liquor, now
that they had recovered their senses. It was like, perhaps, eau-de-vie
with liquorice-juice in it; or rather one might say rum, sugared and
burned. They said "Yes"; they said "No." From their replies, the
Emperor suspected that it was ratafia; but he would not have sworn to
it. That day Rouget and his men had too many pains in their sides to
go a-fishing. Moreover, they knew that La Queue had gone out without
success that morning, and they talked of waiting until the next day
before visiting their jambins. All three of them, seated on blocks
of stone, watched the tide come in, their backs rounded, their mouths
clammy, half-asleep.

But suddenly Delphin woke up; he jumped on to the stone, his eyes on the
distance, crying: "Look, Boss, off there!"

"What?" asked Rouget, who stretched his limbs.

"A cask."

Rouget and Fouasse were at once on their feet, their eyes gleaming,
sweeping the horizon.

"Where is it, lad? Where is the cask?" repeated the boss, greatly moved.

"Off there--to the left--that black spot."

The others saw nothing. Then Rouget swore an oath. "Nom de Dieu!"

France continued to fashion, elegance and still teaching school and
center of all courtesy. The brightest torch of modern culture, it seems
that continued to burn in Paris and then lit up the world and attracted
the love of souls.The "Baleine" was just putting out from the harbor when the news that
they saw a cask out at sea was circulated in Coqueville. The children,
the women, began to run. They shouted: "A cask! a cask!"

"Do you see it? The current is driving it toward Grandport."

"Ah, yes! on the left--a cask! Come, quick!"

And Coqueville came; tumbled down from its rock; the children arrived
head over heels, while the women picked up their skirts with both hands
to descend quickly. Soon the entire village was on the beach as on the
night before.

Margot showed herself for an instant, then she ran back at full speed to
the house, where she wished to forestall her father, who was discussing
an official process with the Emperor. At last La Queue appeared. He was
livid; he said to the _garde champêtre_: "Hold your peace! It's Rouget
who has sent you here to beguile me. Well, then, he shall not get it.
You'll see!"

When he saw the "Baleine," three hundred metres out, making with all her
oars toward the black dot, rocking in the distance, his fury redoubled.
And he shoved Tupain and Brisemotte into the "Zéphir," and he pulled out
in turn, repeating: "No, they shall not have it; I'll die sooner!"

Then Coqueville had a fine spectacle; a mad race between the "Zéphir"
and the "Baleine." When the latter saw the first leave the harbor, she
understood the danger, and shot off with all her speed. She may have
been four hundred metres ahead; but the chances remained even, for the
"Zéphir" was otherwise light and swift; so excitement was at its height
on the beach. The Mahès and the Floches had instinctively formed into
two groups, following eagerly the vicissitudes of the struggle, each
upholding its own boat. At first the "Baleine" kept her advantage, but
as soon as the "Zéphir" spread herself, they saw that she was gaining
little by little. The "Baleine" made a supreme effort and succeeded
for a few minutes in holding her distance. Then the "Zéphir" once more
gained upon the "Baleine," came up with her at extraordinary speed.
From that moment on, it was evident that the two barks would meet in
the neighborhood of the cask. Victory hung on a circumstance, on the
slightest mishap.

"The 'Baleine'! The 'baleine'!" cried the Mahés.

But they soon ceased shouting. When the "Baleine" was almost touching
the cask, the "Zephir," by a bold maneuvre, managed to pass in front of
her and throw the cask to the left, where La Queue harpooned it with a
thrust of the boat-hook.

"The 'Zéphir'! the 'Zéphir!" screamed the Floches.

And the Emperor, having spoken of foul play, big words were exchanged.
Margot clapped her hands. The Abbé Radiguet came down with his breviary,
made a profound remark which abruptly calmed the people, and then threw
them into consternation.

"They will, perhaps, drink it all, these, too," he murmured with a
melancholy air.

At sea, between the "Baleine" and the "Zéphir," a violent quarrel broke
out. Rouget called La Queue a thief, while the latter called Rouget a
good-for-nothing. The men even took up their oars to beat each other
down, and the adventure lacked little of turning into a naval combat.
More than this, they engaged to meet on land, showing their fists and
threatening to disembowel each other as soon as they found each other
again.

"The rascal!" grumbled Rouget. "You know, that cask is bigger than the
one of yesterday. It's yellow, this one--it ought to be great." Then
in accents of despair: "Let's go and see the jambins; there may very
possibly be lobsters in them."

And the "Baleine" went on heavily to the left, steering toward the
point.

