"He has dealt very fairly by me. He has done all he could to get rid
of the man,--both with him and with her. He has told Emily that he
will have nothing to do with the man. And she will do nothing without
his sanction."

"Then it will remain just as it is."

"No, John; it will not. He has gone on to say that though he has
refused,--and has refused roughly enough,--he must give way if he
sees that she has really set her heart upon him. And she has."

"Has she told you so?"

"No;--but he has told me. I shall have it out with her to-morrow, if
I can. And then I shall be off."

"You'll be here for shooting on the 1st?"

"No. I dare say you're right in what you say about sticking to my
work. It does seem unmanly to run away because of a girl."

"Because of anything! Stop and face it, whatever it is."

"Just so;--but I can't stop and face her. It would do no good. For
all our sakes I should be better away. I can get shooting with
Musgrave and Carnegie in Perthshire. I dare say I shall go there, and
take a share with them."

"That's better than going into all the quarters of the globe."

"I didn't mean that I was to surrender and start at once. You take a
fellow up so short. I shall do very well, I've no doubt, and shall
be hunting here as jolly as ever at Christmas. But a fellow must say
it all to somebody." The elder brother put his hand out and laid it
affectionately upon the younger one's arm. "I'm not going to whimper
about the world like a whipped dog. The worst of it is so many people
have known of this."

"You mean down here."

"Oh;--everywhere. I have never told them. It has been a kind of
family affair and thought to be fit for general discussions."

"That'll wear away."

"In the meantime it's a bore. But that shall be the end of it. Don't
you say another word to me about it, and I won't to you. And tell
mother not to, or Sarah." Sarah was John Fletcher's wife. "It has
got to be dropped, and let us drop it as quickly as we can. If she
does marry this man I don't suppose she'll be much at Longbarns or
Wharton."

"Not at Longbarns certainly, I should say," replied John. "Fancy
mother having to curtsey to her as Mrs. Lopez! And I doubt whether
Sir Alured would like him. He isn't of our sort. He's too clever,
too cosmopolitan,--a sort of man white-washed of all prejudices, who
wouldn't mind whether he ate horseflesh or beef if horseflesh were as
good as beef, and never had an association in his life. I'm not sure
that he's not on the safest side. Good night, old fellow. Pluck up,
and send us plenty of grouse if you do go to Scotland."

John Fletcher, as I hope may have been already seen, was by no
means a weak man or an indifferent brother. He was warm-hearted,
sharp-witted, and, though perhaps a little self-opinionated,
considered throughout the county to be one of the most prudent in
it. Indeed no one ever ventured to doubt his wisdom on all practical
matters,--save his mother, who seeing him almost every day, had a
stronger bias towards her younger son. "Arthur has been hit hard
about that girl," he said to his wife that night.

"Emily Wharton?"

"Yes;--your cousin Emily. Don't say anything to him, but be as good
to him as you know how."

"Good to Arthur! Am I not always good to him?"

"Be a little more than usually tender with him. It makes one almost
cry to see such a fellow hurt like that. I can understand it, though
I never had anything of it myself."

"You never had, John," said the wife leaning close upon the husband's
breast as she spoke. "It all came very easily to you;--too easily
perhaps."

"If any girl had ever refused me, I should have taken her at her
word, I can tell you. There would have been no second 'hop' to that
ball."

"Then I suppose I was right to catch it the first time?"

"I don't say how that may be."

"I was right. Oh, dear me!--Suppose I had doubted, just for once, and
you had gone off. You would have tried once more;--wouldn't you?"

"You'd have gone about like a broken-winged old hen, and have
softened me that way."

"And now poor Arthur has had his wing broken."

"You mustn't let on to know that it's broken, and the wing will be
healed in due time. But what fools girls are!"

"Indeed they are, John;--particularly me."

"Fancy a girl like Emily Wharton," said he, not condescending to
notice her little joke, "throwing over a fellow like Arthur for a
greasy, black foreigner."

"A foreigner!"

He scribbled hard, and scribbled fast, he burned the midnight oil,
And when he reached "The End" he felt rewarded for his toil; He said,
"This charming Children's Book is greatly to my credit." And now
he's sorely puzzled that no child has ever read it.CHAPTER XVII

Good-Bye


Arthur Fletcher received his brother's teaching as true, and took
his brother's advice in good part;--so that, before the morning
following, he had resolved that however deep the wound might be, he
would so live before the world, that the world should not see his
wound. What people already knew they must know,--but they should
learn nothing further either by words or signs from him. He would,
as he had said to his brother, "have it out with Emily"; and then,
if she told him plainly that she loved the man, he would bid her
adieu, simply expressing regret that their course for life should be
divided. He was confident that she would tell him the entire truth.
She would be restrained neither by false modesty, nor by any assumed
unwillingness to discuss her own affairs with a friend so true to
her as he had been. He knew her well enough to be sure that she
recognised the value of his love though she could not bring herself
to accept it. There are rejected lovers who, merely because they are
lovers, become subject to the scorn and even to the disgust of the
girls they love. But again there are men who, even when they are
rejected, are almost loved, who are considered to be worthy of all
reverence, almost of worship;--and yet the worshippers will not love
them. Not analysing all this, but somewhat conscious of the light in
which this girl regarded him, he knew that what he might say would be
treated with deference. As to shaking her,--as to talking her out of
one purpose and into another,--that to him did not for a moment seem
to be practicable. There was no hope of that. He hardly knew why he
should endeavour to say a word to her before he left Wharton. And yet
he felt that it must be said. Were he to allow her to be married to
this man, without any further previous word between them, it would
appear that he had resolved to quarrel with her for ever. But now, at
this very moment of time, as he lay in his bed, as he dressed himself
in the morning, as he sauntered about among the new hay-stacks with
his pipe in his mouth after breakfast, he came to some conclusion in
his mind very much averse to such quarrelling.

He had loved her with all his heart. It had not been a mere
drawing-room love begotten between a couple of waltzes, and fostered
by five minutes in a crush. He knew himself to be a man of the world,
and he did not wish to be other than he was. He could talk among men
as men talked, and act as men acted;--and he could do the same with
women. But there was one person who had been to him above all, and
round everything, and under everything. There had been a private nook
within him into which there had been no entrance but for the one
image. There had been a holy of holies, which he had guarded within
himself, keeping it free from all outer contamination for his own
use. He had cherished the idea of a clear fountain of ever-running
water which would at last be his, always ready for the comfort of his
own lips. He coasted by the seaboard States. Hurrah! all danger past,
Quickly he sailed the last few miles and reached his home at last;
His mother welcomed him, and said, "I'm glad there was no shower;
But hurry in, my bonny boy, I've waited tea an hour."
The fountain would still run,--still the
clearest fountain of all,--though he might not put his lips to it. He
would never allow himself to think of it with lessened reverence, or
with changed ideas as to her nature.

And then, as he stood leaning against a ladder which still kept
its place against one of the hay-ricks, and filled his second pipe
unconsciously, he had to realise to himself the probable condition of
his future life. Of course she would marry this man with very little
further delay. Her father had already declared himself to be too
weak to interfere much longer with her wishes. Of course Mr. Wharton
would give way. He had himself declared that he would give way. And
then,--what sort of life would be her life? No one knew anything
about the man. There was an idea that he was rich,--but wealth such
as his, wealth that is subject to speculation, will fly away at a
moment's notice. He might be cruel, a mere adventurer, or a thorough
ruffian for all that was known of him. There should, thought Arthur
Fletcher to himself, be more stability in the giving and taking
of wives than could be reckoned upon here. He became old in that
half-hour, taking home to himself and appreciating many saws of
wisdom and finger-directions of experience which hitherto had been
to him matters almost of ridicule. But he could only come to this
conclusion,--that as she was still to be to him his holy of holies
though he might not lay his hand upon the altar, his fountain though
he might not drink of it, the one image which alone could have filled
that nook, he would not cease to regard her happiness when she should
have become the wife of this stranger. With the stranger himself he
never could be on friendly terms;--but for the stranger's wife there
should always be a friend, if the friend were needed.

About an hour before lunch, John Fletcher, who had been hanging about
the house all the morning in a manner very unusual to him, caught
Emily Wharton as she was passing through the hall, and told her that
Arthur was in a certain part of the grounds and wished to speak to
her. "Alone?" she asked. "Yes, certainly alone." "Ought I to go to
him, John?" she asked again. "Certainly I think you ought." Then he
had done his commission and was able to apply himself to whatever
business he had on hand.

Emily at once put on her hat, took her parasol, and left the house.
There was something distasteful to her in the idea of this going out
at a lover's bidding, to meet him; but like all Whartons and all
Fletchers, she trusted John Fletcher. And then she was aware that
there were circumstances which might make such a meeting as this
serviceable. She knew nothing of what had taken place during the last
four-and-twenty hours. She had no idea that in consequence of words
spoken to him by her father and his brother, Arthur Fletcher was
about to abandon his suit. There would have been no doubt about her
going to meet him had she thought this. She supposed that she would
have to hear again the old story. If so, she would hear it, and
would then have an opportunity of telling him that her heart had
been given entirely to another. She knew all that she owed to him.
After a fashion she did love him. He was entitled to all kindest
consideration from her hands. But he should be told the truth.

As she entered the shrubbery he came out to meet her, giving her his
hand with a frank, easy air and a pleasant smile. His smile was as
bright as the ripple of the sea, and his eye would then gleam, and
the slightest sparkle of his white teeth would be seen between his
lips, and the dimple of his chin would show itself deeper than at
other times. "It is very good of you. I thought you'd come. John
asked you, I suppose."

"Yes;--he told me you were here, and he said I ought to come."

"I don't know about ought, but I think it better. Will you mind
walking on, as I've got something that I want to say?" Then he turned
and she turned with him into the little wood. "I'm not going to
bother you any more, my darling," he said. "You are still my darling,
though I will not call you so after this." Her heart sank almost in
her bosom as she heard this,--though it was exactly what she would
have wished to hear. But now there must be some close understanding
between them and some tenderness. She knew how much she had owed him,
how good he had been to her, how true had been his love; and she felt
that words would fail her to say that which ought to be said. "So you
have given yourself to--one Ferdinand Lopez!"

"Yes," she said, in a hard, dry voice. "Yes; I have. I do not know
who told you; but I have."

"Your father told me. It was better,--was it not?--that I should
know. You are not sorry that I should know?"

"It is better."

"I am not going to say a word against him."

"No;--do not do that."

"Nor against you. I am simply here now to let you know that--I
retire."

"You will not quarrel with me, Arthur?"

"Quarrel with you! I could not quarrel with you, if I would.
No;--there shall be no quarrel. But I do not suppose we shall see
each other very often."

"I hope we may."

"Sometimes, perhaps. A man should not, I think, affect to be friends
with a successful rival. I dare say he is an excellent fellow, but
how is it possible that he and I should get on together? But you will
always have one,--one besides him,--who will love you best in this
world."

"No;--no;--no."

"It must be so. There will be nothing wrong in that. Every one has
some dearest friend, and you will always be mine. If anything of evil
should ever happen to you,--which of course there won't,--there would
be some one who would--. But I don't want to talk buncum; I only want
you to believe me. Good-bye, and God bless you." Then he put out his
right hand, holding his hat under his left arm.

"You are not going away?"

"To-morrow, perhaps. But I will say my real good-bye to you here,
now, to-day. I hope you may be happy. I hope it with all my heart.
Good-bye. God bless you!"

"Oh, Arthur!" Then she put her hand in his.

"Oh, I have loved you so dearly. It has been with my whole heart. You
have never quite understood me, but it has been as true as heaven. I
have thought sometimes that had I been a little less earnest about
it, I should have been a little less stupid. A man shouldn't let it
get the better of him, as I have done. Say good-bye to me, Emily."

"Good-bye," she said, still leaving her hand in his.

"I suppose that's about all. Don't let them quarrel with you here
if you can help it. Of course at Longbarns they won't like it for
a time. Oh,--if it could have been different!" Then he dropped her
hand, and turning his back quickly upon her, went away along the
path.

She had expected and had almost wished that he should kiss her. A
girl's cheek is never so holy to herself as it is to her lover,--if
he do love her. There would have been something of reconciliation,
something of a promise of future kindness in a kiss, which even
Ferdinand would not have grudged. It would, for her, have robbed
the parting of that bitterness of pain which his words had given to
it. As to all that, he had made no calculation; but the bitterness
was there for him, and he could have done nothing that would have
expelled it.

She wept bitterly as she returned to the house. There might have been
cause for joy. It was clear enough that her father, though he had
shown no sign to her of yielding, was nevertheless prepared to yield.
It was her father who had caused Arthur Fletcher to take himself off,
as a lover really dismissed. But, at this moment, she could not bring
herself to look at that aspect of the affair. Her mind would revert
to all those choicest moments in her early years in which she had
been happy with Arthur Fletcher; in which she had first learned to
love him, and had then taught herself to understand by some confused
and perplexed lesson that she did not love him as men and women love.
But why should she not so have loved him? Would she not have done so
could she then have understood how true and firm he was? "Oh, I've
been 'round among great men, In the world where the great men
be.
And none of them scratch with their claws like you, They write with a
quill like me."
Now very few people could get ahead Of that old hen, Fiddle-de-dee.For a moment the idea of a comparison between
the two men forced itself upon her,--but she drove it from her as she
hurried back to the house.


CHAPTER XVIII

The Duke of Omnium Thinks of Himself


The blaze made by the Duchess of Omnium during the three months of
the season up in London had been very great, but it was little in
comparison with the social coruscation expected to be achieved at
Gatherum Castle,--little at least as far as public report went, and
the general opinion of the day. No doubt the house in Carlton Gardens
had been thrown open as the house of no Prime Minister, perhaps of no
duke, had been opened before in this country; but it had been done by
degrees, and had not been accompanied by such a blowing of trumpets
as was sounded with reference to the entertainments at Gatherum.
I would not have it supposed that the trumpets were blown by the
direct order of the Duchess. The trumpets were blown by the customary
trumpeters as it became known that great things were to be done,--all
newspapers and very many tongues lending their assistance, till the
sounds of the instruments almost frightened the Duchess herself.
"Isn't it odd," she said to her friend, Mrs. Finn, "that one can't
have a few friends down in the country without such a fuss about it
as the people are making?" Mrs. Finn did not think that it was odd,
and so she said. Thousands of pounds were being spent in a very
conspicuous way. Invitations to the place even for a couple of
days,--for twenty-four hours,--had been begged for abjectly. It
was understood everywhere that the Prime Minister was bidding for
greatness and popularity. Of course the trumpets were blown very
loudly. "If people don't take care," said the Duchess, "I'll put
everybody off and have the whole place shut up. I'd do it for
sixpence, now."

Perhaps of all the persons, much or little concerned, the one who
heard the least of the trumpets,--or rather who was the last to hear
them,--was the Duke himself. He could not fail to see something in
the newspapers, but what he did see did not attract him so frequently
or so strongly as it did others. It was a pity, he thought, that
a man's social and private life should be made subject to so many
remarks, but this misfortune was one of those to which wealth and
rank are liable. He had long recognised that fact, and for a time
endeavoured to believe that his intended sojourn at Gatherum Castle
was not more public than are the autumn doings of other dukes and
other prime ministers. But gradually the trumpets did reach even his
ears. Blind as he was to many things himself, he always had near to
him that other duke who was never blind to anything. "You are going
to do great things at Gatherum this year," said the Duke.

"Nothing particular, I hope," said the Prime Minister, with an inward
trepidation,--for gradually there had crept upon him a fear that his
wife was making a mistake.

"I thought it was going to be very particular."

"It's Glencora's doing."

