     A space, and they fleet from me.  Must ye fade--
     O old, essential candours, ye who made
       The earth a living and a radiant thing--
         And leave her corpse in our strained, cheated arms?
         Lo ever thus, when Song with chorded charms
     Draws from dull death his lost Eurydice,
       Lo ever thus, even at consummating,
       Even in the swooning minute that claims her his,
       Even as he trembles to the impassioned kiss
       Of reincarnate Beauty, his control
       Clasps the cold body, and foregoes the soul!
         Whatso looks lovelily
     Is but the rainbow on life's weeping rain.
     Why have we longings of immortal pain,
     And all we long for mortal?  Woe is me,
     And all our chants but chaplet some decay,
     As mine this vanishing--nay, vanished Day.
     The low sky-line dusks to a leaden hue,
       No rift disturbs the heavy shade and chill,
     Save one, where the charred firmament lets through
       The scorching dazzle of Heaven; 'gainst which the hill,
         Out-flattened sombrely,
     Stands black as life against eternity.
         Against eternity?
         A rifting light in me
       Burns through the leaden broodings of the mind:
         O bless-ed Sun, thy state
         Uprisen or derogate
       Dafts me no more with doubt; I seek and find.

         If with exultant tread
           Thou foot the Eastern sea,
           Or like a golden bee
         Sting the West to angry red,
         Thou dost image, thou dost follow
           That King-Maker of Creation,
         Who, ere Hellas hailed Apollo,
           Gave thee, angel-god, thy station;
     Thou art of Him a type memorial.
       Like Him thou hang'st in dreadful pomp of blood
           Upon thy Western rood;
       And His stained brow did veil like thine to night,
           Yet lift once more Its light,
     And, risen, again departed from our ball,
     But when It set on earth arose in Heaven.
     Thus hath He unto death His beauty given:
     And so of all which form inheriteth
         The fall doth pass the rise in worth;
     For birth hath in itself the germ of death,
       But death hath in itself the germ of birth.
     It is the falling acorn buds the tree,
     The falling rain that bears the greenery,
       The fern-plants moulder when the ferns arise.
       For there is nothing lives but something dies,
     And there is nothing dies but something lives.
           Till skies be fugitives,
     Till Time, the hidden root of change, updries,
     Are Birth and Death inseparable on earth;
     For they are twain yet one, and Death is Birth.

     AFTER-STRAIN.

     Now with wan ray that other sun of Song
       Sets in the bleakening waters of my soul:
     One step, and lo! the Cross stands gaunt and long
       'Twixt me and yet bright skies, a presaged dole.

     Even so, O Cross! thine is the victory.
       Thy roots are fast within our fairest fields;
     Brightness may emanate in Heaven from thee,
       Here thy dread symbol only shadow yields.

     Of reap-ed joys thou art the heavy sheaf
       Which must be lifted, though the reaper groan;
     Yea, we may cry till Heaven's great ear be deaf,
       But we must bear thee, and must bear alone.

     Vain were a Simon; of the Antipodes
       Our night not borrows the superfluous day.
     Yet woe to him that from his burden flees!
       Crushed in the fall of what he cast away.

     Therefore, O tender Lady, Queen Mary,
       Thou gentleness that dost enmoss and drape
     The Cross's rigorous austerity,
       Wipe thou the blood from wounds that needs must gape.

     'Lo, though suns rise and set, but crosses stay,
       I leave thee ever,' saith she, 'light of cheer.'
     'Tis so:  yon sky still thinks upon the Day,
       And showers aerial blossoms on his bier.

     Yon cloud with wrinkled fire is edg-ed sharp;
       And once more welling through the air, ah me!
     How the sweet viol plains him to the harp,
       Whose pang-ed sobbings throng tumultuously.

     Oh, this Medusa-pleasure with her stings!
       This essence of all suffering, which is joy!
     I am not thankless for the spell it brings,
       Though tears must be told down for the charmed toy.

     No; while soul, sky, and music bleed together,
       Let me give thanks even for those griefs in me,
     The restless windward stirrings of whose feather
       Prove them the brood of immortality.

     My soul is quitted of death-neighbouring swoon,
       Who shall not slake her immitigable scars
     Until she hear 'My sister!' from the moon,
       And take the kindred kisses of the stars.


A CAPTAIN OF SONG.

     (On a portrait of Coventry Patmore by J. S. Sargent, R.A.)

     Look on him.  This is he whose works ye know;
     Ye have adored, thanked, loved him,--no, not him!
     But that of him which proud portentous woe
     To its own grim
     Presentment was not potent to subdue,
     Nor all the reek of Erebus to dim.
     This, and not him, ye knew.
     Look on him now.  Love, worship if ye can,
     The very man.
     Ye may not.  He has trod the ways afar,
     The fatal ways of parting and farewell,
     Where all the paths of pain-ed greatness are;
     Where round and always round
     The abhorr-ed words resound,
     The words accursed of comfortable men,--
     'For ever'; and infinite glooms intolerable
     With spacious replication give again,
     And hollow jar,
     The words abhorred of comfortable men.
     You the stern pities of the gods debar
     To drink where he has drunk
     The moonless mere of sighs,
     And pace the places infamous to tell,
     Where God wipes not the tears from any eyes,
     Where-through the ways of dreadful greatness are
     He knows the perilous rout
     That all those ways about
     Sink into doom, and sinking, still are sunk.
     And if his sole and solemn term thereout
     He has attained, to love ye shall not dare
     One who has journeyed there;
     Ye shall mark well
     The mighty cruelties which arm and mar
     That countenance of control,
     With minatory warnings of a soul
     That hath to its own selfhood been most fell,
     And is not weak to spare:
     And lo, that hair
     Is blanch-ed with the travel-heats of hell.

     If any be
     That shall with rites of reverent piety
     Approach this strong
     Sad soul of sovereign Song,
     Nor fail and falter with the intimidate throng;
     If such there be,
     These, these are only they
     Have trod the self-same way;
     The never-twice-revolving portals heard
     Behind them clang infernal, and that word
     Abhorr-ed sighed of kind mortality,
     As he--
     Ah, even as he!


AGAINST URANIA.

     Lo I, Song's most true lover, plain me sore
     That worse than other women she can deceive,
     For she being goddess, I have given her more
     Than mortal ladies from their loves receive;
     And first of her embrace
     She was not coy, and gracious were her ways,
     That I forgot all virgins to adore;
     Nor did I greatly grieve
     To bear through arid days
     The pretty foil of her divine delays;
     And one by one to cast
     Life, love, and health,
     Content, and wealth,
     Before her, thinking ever on her praise,
     Until at last
     Nought had I left she would be gracious for.
     Now of her cozening I complain me sore,
     Seeing her uses,
     That still, more constantly she is pursued,
     And straitlier wooed,
     Her only-ador-ed favour more refuses,
     And leaves me to implore
     Remembered boon in bitterness of blood.

     From mortal woman thou may'st know full well,
     O poet, that dost deem the fair and tall
     Urania of her ways not mutable,
     When things shall thee befall
     What thou art toil-ed in her sweet, wild spell.
     Do they strow for thy feet
     A little tender favour and deceit
     Over the sudden mouth of hidden hell?--
     As more intolerable
     Her pit, as her first kiss is heavenlier-sweet.
     Are they, the more thou sigh,
     Still the more watchful-cruel to deny?--
     Know this, that in her service thou shalt learn
     How harder than the heart of woman is
     The immortal cruelty
     Of the high goddesses.
     True is his witness who doth witness this,
     Whose gaze too early fell--
     Nor thence shall turn,
     Nor in those fires shall cease to weep and burn--
     Upon her ruinous eyes and ineludible.


AN ANTHEM OF EARTH.

     Proemion.

     Immeasurable Earth!
     Through the loud vast and populacy of Heaven,
     Tempested with gold schools of ponderous orbs,
     That cleav'st with deep-revolting harmonies
     Passage perpetual, and behind thee draw'st
     A furrow sweet, a cometary wake
     Of trailing music!  What large effluence,
     Not sole the cloudy sighing of thy seas,
     Nor thy blue-coifing air, encases thee
     From prying of the stars, and the broad shafts
     Of thrusting sunlight tempers?  For, dropped near
     From my remov-ed tour in the serene
     Of utmost contemplation, I scent lives.
     This is the efflux of thy rocks and fields,
     And wind-cuffed forestage, and the souls of men,
     And aura of all treaders over thee;
     A sentient exhalation, wherein close
     The odorous lives of many-throated flowers,
     And each thing's mettle effused; that so thou wear'st,
     Even like a breather on a frosty morn,
     Thy proper suspiration.  For I know,
     Albeit, with custom-dulled perceivingness,
     Nestled against thy breast, my sense not take
     The breathings of thy nostrils, there's no tree,
     No grain of dust, nor no cold-seeming stone,
     But wears a fume of its circumfluous self.
     Thine own life and the lives of all that live,
     The issue of thy loins,
     Is this thy gaberdine,
     Wherein thou walkest through thy large demesne
     And sphery pleasances,--
     Amazing the unstal-ed eyes of Heaven,
     And us that still a precious seeing have
     Behind this dim and mortal jelly.
                                       Ah!
     If not in all too late and frozen a day
     I come in rearward of the throats of song,
     Unto the deaf sense of the ag-ed year
     Singing with doom upon me; yet give heed!
     One poet with sick pinion, that still feels
     Breath through the Orient gateways closing fast,
     Fast closing t'ward the undelighted night!


     Anthem.


     In nescientness, in nescientness,
     Mother, we put these fleshly lendings on
     Thou yield'st to thy poor children; took thy gift
     Of life, which must, in all the after-days,
     Be craved again with tears,--
     With fresh and still-petitionary tears.
     Being once bound thine almsmen for that gift,
     We are bound to beggary, nor our own can call
     The journal dole of customary life,
     But after suit obsequious for't to thee.
     Indeed this flesh, O Mother,
     A beggar's gown, a client's badging,
     We find, which from thy hands we simply took,
     Nought dreaming of the after penury,
     In nescientness.

     In a little joy, in a little joy,
     We wear awhile thy sore insignia,
     Nor know thy heel o' the neck.  O Mother!  Mother!
     Then what use knew I of thy solemn robes,
     But as a child, to play with them?  I bade thee
     Leave thy great husbandries, thy grave designs,
     Thy tedious state which irked my ignorant years,
     Thy winter-watches, suckling of the grain,
     Severe premeditation taciturn
     Upon the brooded Summer, thy chill cares,
     And all thy ministries majestical,
     To sport with me, thy darling.  Thought I not
     Thou set'st thy seasons forth processional
     To pamper me with pageant,--thou thyself
     My fellow-gamester, appanage of mine arms?
     Then what wild Dionysia I, young Bacchanal,
     Danced in thy lap!  Ah for thy gravity!
     Then, O Earth, thou rang'st beneath me,
     Rocked to Eastward, rocked to Westward,
     Even with the shifted
     Poise and footing of my thought!
     I brake through thy doors of sunset,
     Ran before the hooves of sunrise,
     Shook thy matron tresses down in fancies
     Wild and wilful
     As a poet's hand could twine them;
     Caught in my fantasy's crystal chalice
     The Bow, as its cataract of colours
     Plashed to thee downward;
     Then when thy circuit swung to nightward,
     Night the abhorr-ed, night was a new dawning,
     Celestial dawning
     Over the ultimate marges of the soul;
     Dusk grew turbulent with fire before me,
     And like a windy arras waved with dreams.
     Sleep I took not for my bedfellow,
     Who could waken
     To a revel, an inexhaustible
     Wassail of orgiac imageries;
     Then while I wore thy sore insignia
     In a little joy, O Earth, in a little joy;
     Loving thy beauty in all creatures born of thee,
     Children, and the sweet-essenced body of woman;
     Feeling not yet upon my neck thy foot,
     But breathing warm of thee as infants breathe
     New from their mother's morning bosom.  So I,
     Risen from thee, restless winnower of the heaven,
     Most Hermes-like, did keep
     My vital and resilient path, and felt
     The play of wings about my fledg-ed heel--
     Sure on the verges of precipitous dream,
     Swift in its springing
     From jut to jut of inaccessible fancies,
     In a little joy.

     In a little thought, in a little thought,
     We stand and eye thee in a grave dismay,
     With sad and doubtful questioning, when first
     Thou speak'st to us as men:  like sons who hear
     Newly their mother's history, unthought
     Before, and say--'She is not as we dreamed:
     Ah me! we are beguiled!'  What art thou, then,
     That art not our conceiving?  Art thou not
     Too old for thy young children?  Or perchance,
     Keep'st thou a youth perpetual-burnishable
     Beyond thy sons decrepit?  It is long
     Since Time was first a fledgling;
     Yet thou may'st be but as a pendant bulla
     Against his stripling bosom swung.  Alack!
     For that we seem indeed
     To have slipped the world's great leaping-time, and come
     Upon thy pinched and dozing days:  these weeds,
     These corporal leavings, thou not cast'st us new,
     Fresh from thy craftship, like the lilies' coats,
     But foist'st us off
     With hasty tarnished piecings negligent,
     Snippets and waste
     From old ancestral wearings,
     That have seen sorrier usage; remainder-flesh
     After our father's surfeits; nay with chinks,
     Some of us, that if speech may have free leave
     Our souls go out at elbows.  We are sad
     With more than our sires' heaviness, and with
     More than their weakness weak; we shall not be
     Mighty with all their mightiness, nor shall not
     Rejoice with all their joy.  Ay, Mother!  Mother!
     What is this Man, thy darling kissed and cuffed,
     Thou lustingly engender'st,
     To sweat, and make his brag, and rot,
     Crowned with all honour and all shamefulness?
     From nightly towers
     He dogs the secret footsteps of the heavens,
     Sifts in his hands the stars, weighs them as gold-dust,
     And yet is he successive unto nothing
     But patrimony of a little mould,
     And entail of four planks.  Thou hast made his mouth
     Avid of all dominion and all mightiness,
     All sorrow, all delight, all topless grandeurs,
     All beauty, and all starry majesties,
     And dim transtellar things;--even that it may,
     Filled in the ending with a puff of dust,
     Confess--'It is enough.'  The world left empty
     What that poor mouthful crams.  His heart is builded
     For pride, for potency, infinity,
     All heights, all deeps, and all immensities,
     Arrased with purple like the house of kings,--
     To stall the grey-rat, and the carrion-worm
     Statelily lodge.  Mother of mysteries!
     Sayer of dark sayings in a thousand tongues,
     Who bringest forth no saying yet so dark
     As we ourselves, thy darkest!  We the young,
     In a little thought, in a little thought,
     At last confront thee, and ourselves in thee,
     And wake disgarmented of glory:  as one
     On a mount standing, and against him stands,
     On the mount adverse, crowned with westering rays,
     The golden sun, and they two brotherly
     Gaze each on each;
     He faring down
     To the dull vale, his Godhead peels from him
     Till he can scarcely spurn the pebble--
     For nothingness of new-found mortality--
     That mutinies against his gall-ed foot.
     Littly he sets him to the daily way,
     With all around the valleys growing grave,
     And known things changed and strange; but he holds on,
     Though all the land of light be widow-ed,
     In a little thought.

     In a little strength, in a little strength,
     We affront thy unveiled face intolerable,
     Which yet we do sustain.
     Though I the Orient never more shall feel
     Break like a clash of cymbals, and my heart
     Clang through my shaken body like a gong;
     Nor ever more with spurted feet shall tread
     I' the winepresses of song; nought's truly lost
     That moulds to sprout forth gain:  now I have on me
     The high Phoebean priesthood, and that craves
     An unrash utterance; not with flaunted hem
     May the Muse enter in behind the veil,
     Nor, though we hold the sacred dances good,
     Shall the holy Virgins maenadize:  ruled lips
     Befit a votaress Muse.
     Thence with no mutable, nor no gelid love,
     I keep, O Earth, thy worship,
     Though life slow, and the sobering Genius change
     To a lamp his gusty torch.  What though no more
     Athwart its roseal glow
     Thy face look forth triumphal?  Thou put'st on
     Strange sanctities of pathos; like this knoll
     Made derelict of day,
     Couchant and shadow-ed
     Under dim Vesper's overloosened hair:
     This, where emboss-ed with the half-blown seed
     The solemn purple thistle stands in grass
     Grey as an exhalation, when the bank
     Holds mist for water in the nights of Fall.
     Not to the boy, although his eyes be pure
     As the prime snowdrop is,
     Ere the rash Phoebus break her cloister
     Of sanctimonious snow;
     Or Winter fasting sole on Himalay
     Since those dove-nuncioed days
     When Asia rose from bathing;
     Not to such eyes,
     Uneuphrasied with tears, the hierarchical
     Vision lies unoccult, rank under rank
     Through all create down-wheeling, from the Throne
     Even to the bases of the pregnant ooze.
     This is the enchantment, this the exaltation,
     The all-compensating wonder,
     Giving to common things wild kindred
     With the gold-tesserate floors of Jove;
     Linking such heights and such humilities
     Hand in hand in ordinal dances,
     That I do think my tread,
     Stirring the blossoms in the meadow-grass,
     Flickers the unwithering stars.
     This to the shunless fardel of the world
     Nerves my uncurb-ed back; that I endure,
     The monstrous Temple's moveless caryatid,
     With wide eyes calm upon the whole of things,
     In a little strength.

     In a little sight, in a little sight,
     We learn from what in thee is credible
     The incredible, with bloody clutch and feet
     Clinging the painful juts of jagg-ed faith.
     Science, old noser in its prideful straw,
     That with anatomising scalpel tents
     Its three-inch of thy skin, and brags--'All's bare,'
     The eyeless worm, that boring works the soil,
     Making it capable for the crops of God;
     Against its own dull will
     Ministers poppies to our troublous thought,
     A Balaam come to prophecy,--parables,
     Nor of its parable itself is ware,
     Grossly unwotting; all things has expounded
     Reflux and influx, counts the sepulchre
     The seminary of being, and extinction
     The Ceres of existence:  it discovers
     Life in putridity, vigour in decay;
     Dissolution even, and disintegration,
     Which in our dull thoughts symbolise disorder,
     Finds in God's thoughts irrefragable order,
     And admirable the manner of our corruption
     As of our health.  It grafts upon the cypress
     The tree of Life--Death dies on his own dart
     Promising to our ashes perpetuity,
     And to our perishable elements
     Their proper imperishability; extracting
     Medicaments from out mortality
     Against too mortal cogitation; till
     Even of the caput mortuum we do thus
     Make a memento vivere.  To such uses
     I put the blinding knowledge of the fool,
     Who in no order seeth ordinance;
     Nor thrust my arm in nature shoulder-high,
     And cry--'There's nought beyond!'  How should I so,
     That cannot with these arms of mine engirdle
     All which I am; that am a foreigner
     In mine own region?  Who the chart shall draw
     Of the strange courts and vaulty labyrinths,
     The spacious tenements and wide pleasances,
     Innumerable corridors far-withdrawn,
     Where I wander darkling, of myself?
     Darkling I wander, nor I dare explore
     The long arcane of those dim catacombs,
     Where the rat memory does its burrows make,
     Close-seal them as I may, and my stolen tread
     Starts populace, a gens lucifuga;
     That too strait seems my mind my mind to hold,
     And I myself incontinent of me.
     Then go I, my foul-venting ignorance
     With scabby sapience plastered, aye forsooth!
     Clap my wise foot-rule to the walls o' the world,
     And vow--A goodly house, but something ancient,
     And I can find no Master?  Rather, nay,
     By baffled seeing, something I divine
     Which baffles, and a seeing set beyond;
     And so with strenuous gazes sounding down,
     Like to the day-long porer on a stream,
     Whose last look is his deepest, I beside
     This slow perpetual Time stand patiently,
     In a little sight.

     In a little dust, in a little dust,
     Earth, thou reclaim'st us, who do all our lives
     Find of thee but Egyptian villeinage.
     Thou dost this body, this enhavocked realm,
     Subject to ancient and ancestral shadows;
     Descended passions sway it; it is distraught
     With ghostly usurpation, dinned and fretted
     With the still-tyrannous dead; a haunted tenement,
     Peopled from barrows and outworn ossuaries.
     Thou giv'st us life not half so willingly
     As thou undost thy giving; thou that teem'st
     The stealthy terror of the sinuous pard,
     The lion maned with curl-ed puissance,
     The serpent, and all fair strong beasts of ravin,
     Thyself most fair and potent beast of ravin;
     And thy great eaters thou, the greatest, eat'st.
     Thou hast devoured mammoth and mastodon,
     And many a floating bank of fangs,
     The scaly scourges of thy primal brine,
     And the tower-crested plesiosaure.
     Thou fill'st thy mouth with nations, gorgest slow
     On purple aeons of kings; man's hulking towers
     Are carcase for thee, and to modern sun
     Disglutt'st their splintered bones.
     Rabble of Pharaohs and Arsacidae
     Keep their cold house within thee; thou hast sucked down
     How many Ninevehs and Hecatompyloi,
     And perished cities whose great phantasmata
     O'erbrow the silent citizens of Dis:-
     Hast not thy fill?
     Tarry awhile, lean Earth, for thou shalt drink,
     Even till thy dull throat sicken,
     The draught thou grow'st most fat on; hear'st thou not
     The world's knives bickering in their sheaths?  O patience!
     Much offal of a foul world comes thy way,
     And man's superfluous cloud shall soon be laid
     In a little blood.

     In a little peace, in a little peace,
     Thou dost rebate thy rigid purposes
     Of imposed being, and relenting, mend'st
     Too much, with nought.  The westering Phoebus' horse
     Paws i' the lucent dust as when he shocked
     The East with rising; O how may I trace
     In this decline that morning when we did
     Sport 'twixt the claws of newly-whelped existence,
     Which had not yet learned rending? we did then
     Divinely stand, not knowing yet against us
     Sentence had passed of life, nor commutation
     Petitioning into death.  What's he that of
     The Free State argues?  Tellus! bid him stoop,
     Even where the low hic jacet answers him;
     Thus low, O Man! there's freedom's seignory,
     Tellus' most reverend sole free commonweal,
     And model deeply-policied:  there none
     Stands on precedence, nor ambitiously
     Woos the impartial worm, whose favours kiss
     With liberal largesse all; there each is free
     To be e'en what he must, which here did strive
     So much to be he could not; there all do
     Their uses just, with no flown questioning.
     To be took by the hand of equal earth
     They doff her livery, slip to the worm,
     Which lacqueys them, their suits of maintenance,
     And that soiled workaday apparel cast,
     Put on condition:  Death's ungentle buffet
     Alone makes ceremonial manumission;
     So are the heavenly statutes set, and those
     Uranian tables of the primal Law.
     In a little peace, in a little peace,
     Like fierce beasts that a common thirst makes brothers,
     We draw together to one hid dark lake;
     In a little peace, in a little peace,
     We drain with all our burthens of dishonour
     Into the cleansing sands o' the thirsty grave.
     The fiery pomps, brave exhalations,
     And all the glistering shows o' the seeming world,
     Which the sight aches at, we unwinking see
     Through the smoked glass of Death; Death, wherewith's fined
     The muddy wine of life; that earth doth purge
     Of her plethora of man; Death, that doth flush
     The cumbered gutters of humanity;
     Nothing, of nothing king, with front uncrowned,
     Whose hand holds crownets; playmate swart o' the strong;
     Tenebrous moon that flux and refluence draws
     Of the high-tided man; skull-hous-ed asp
     That stings the heel of kings; true Fount of Youth,
     Where he that dips is deathless; being's drone-pipe;
     Whose nostril turns to blight the shrivelled stars,
     And thicks the lusty breathing of the sun;
     Pontifical Death, that doth the crevasse bridge
     To the steep and trifid God; one mortal birth
     That broker is of immortality.
     Under this dreadful brother uterine,
     This kinsman feared, Tellus, behold me come,
     Thy son stern-nursed; who mortal-motherlike,
     To turn thy weanlings' mouth averse, embitter'st
     Thine over-childed breast.  Now, mortal-sonlike,
     I thou hast suckled, Mother, I at last
     Shall sustenant be to thee.  Here I untrammel,
     Here I pluck loose the body's cerementing,
     And break the tomb of life; here I shake off
     The bur o' the world, man's congregation shun,
     And to the antique order of the dead
     I take the tongueless vows:  my cell is set
     Here in thy bosom; my little trouble is ended
     In a little peace.


MISCELLANEOUS POEMS.


'EX ORE INFANTIUM'.


     Little Jesus, wast Thou shy
     Once, and just so small as I?
     And what did it feel like to be
     Out of Heaven, and just like me?
     Didst Thou sometimes think of THERE,
     And ask where all the angels were?
     I should think that I would cry
     For my house all made of sky;
     I would look about the air,
     And wonder where my angels were;
     And at waking 'twould distress me--
     Not an angel there to dress me!
     Hadst Thou ever any toys,
     Like us little girls and boys?
     And didst Thou play in Heaven with all
     The angels that were not too tall,
     With stars for marbles?  Did the things
     Play Can you see me? through their wings?
     And did Thy Mother let Thee spoil
     Thy robes, with playing on OUR soil?
     How nice to have them always new
     In Heaven, because 'twas quite clean blue!

     Didst Thou kneel at night to pray,
     And didst Thou join Thy hands, this way?
     And did they tire sometimes, being young,
     And make the prayer seem very long?
     And dost Thou like it best, that we
     Should join our hands to pray to Thee?
     I used to think, before I knew,
     The prayer not said unless we do.
     And did Thy Mother at the night
     Kiss Thee, and fold the clothes in right?
     And didst Thou feel quite good in bed,
     Kissed, and sweet, and thy prayers said?

     Thou canst not have forgotten all
     That it feels like to be small:
     And Thou know'st I cannot pray
     To Thee in my father's way--
     When Thou wast so little, say,
     Couldst Thou talk Thy Father's way?--
     So, a little Child, come down
     And hear a child's tongue like Thy own;
     Take me by the hand and walk,
     And listen to my baby-talk.
     To Thy Father show my prayer
     (He will look, Thou art so fair),
     And say:  'O Father, I, Thy Son,
     Bring the prayer of a little one.'

     And He will smile, that children's tongue
     Has not changed since Thou wast young!


A QUESTION.

     O bird with heart of wassail,
       That toss the Bacchic branch,
     And slip your shaken music,
       An elfin avalanche;

     Come tell me, O tell me,
       My poet of the blue!
     What's YOUR thought of me, Sweet?--
       Here's MY thought of you.

     A small thing, a wee thing,
       A brown fleck of nought;
     With winging and singing
       That who could have thought?

     A small thing, a wee thing,
       A brown amaze withal,
     That fly a pitch more azure
       Because you're so small.

     Bird, I'm a small thing--
       My angel descries;
     With winging and singing
       That who could surmise?

     Ah, small things, ah, wee things,
       Are the poets all,
     Whose tour's the more azure
       Because they're so small.

     The angels hang watching
       The tiny men-things:-
     'The dear speck of flesh, see,
       With such daring wings!

     'Come, tell us, O tell us,
       Thou strange mortality!
     What's THY thought of us, Dear?--
       Here's OUR thought of thee.'

     'Alack! you tall angels,
       I can't think so high!
     I can't think what it feels like
       Not to be I.'

     Come tell me, O tell me,
       My poet of the blue!
     What's YOUR thought of me, Sweet?--
       Here's MY thought of you.


FIELD-FLOWER.

     A Phantasy.

     God took a fit of Paradise-wind,
       A slip of coerule weather,
     A thought as simple as Himself,
       And ravelled them together.
     Unto His eyes He held it there,
     To teach it gazing debonair
       With memory of what, perdie,
     A God's young innocences were.
     His fingers pushed it through the sod--
     It came up redolent of God,
     Garrulous of the eyes of God
       To all the breezes near it;
     Musical of the mouth of God
       To all had eyes to hear it;
     Mystical with the mirth of God,
       That glow-like did ensphere it.
         And--'Babble! babble! babble!' said;
          'I'll tell the whole world one day!'
         There was no blossom half so glad,
           Since sun of Christ's first Sunday.

     A poet took a flaw of pain,
       A hap of skiey pleasure,
     A thought had in his cradle lain,
       And mingled them in measure.
     That chrism he laid upon his eyes,
     And lips, and heart, for euphrasies,
       That he might see, feel, sing, perdie,
     The simple things that are the wise.
     Beside the flower he held his ways,
     And leaned him to it gaze for gaze--
     He took its meaning, gaze for gaze,
       As baby looks on baby;
     Its meaning passed into his gaze,
       Native as meaning may be;
     He rose with all his shining gaze
       As children's eyes at play be.
         And--'Babble! babble! babble!' said;
          'I'll tell the whole world one day!'
         There was no poet half so glad,
           Since man grew God that Sunday.


THE CLOUD'S SWAN-SONG.

     There is a parable in the pathless cloud,
     There's prophecy in heaven,--they did not lie,
     The Chaldee shepherds; seal-ed from the proud,
     To cheer the weighted heart that mates the seeing eye.

     A lonely man, oppressed with lonely ills,
     And all the glory fallen from my song,
     Here do I walk among the windy hills,
     The wind and I keep both one monotoning tongue.

     Like grey clouds one by one my songs upsoar
     Over my soul's cold peaks; and one by one
     They loose their little rain, and are no more;
     And whether well or ill, to tell me there is none.

     For 'tis an alien tongue, of alien things,
     From all men's care, how miserably apart!
     Even my friends say:  'Of what is this he sings?'
     And barren is my song, and barren is my heart.

     For who can work, unwitting his work's worth?
     Better, meseems, to know the work for naught,
     Turn my sick course back to the kindly earth,
     And leave to ampler plumes the jetting tops of thought.

     And visitations, that do often use,
     Remote, unhappy, inauspicious sense
     Of doom, and poets widowed of their muse,
     And what dark 'gan, dark ended, in me did commence.

     I thought of spirit wronged by mortal ills,
     And my flesh rotting on my fate's dull stake;
     And how self-scorn-ed they the bounty fills
     Of others, and the bread, even of their dearest, take.

     I thought of Keats, that died in perfect time,
     In predecease of his just-sickening song;
     Of him that set, wrapt in his radiant rhyme,
     Sunlike in sea.  Life longer had been life too long.

     But I, exanimate of quick Poesy,--
     O then, no more but even a soulless corse!
     Nay, my Delight dies not; 'tis I should be
     Her dead, a stringless harp on which she had no force.

     Of my wild lot I thought; from place to place,
     Apollo's song-bowed Scythian, I go on;
     Making in all my home, with pliant ways,
     But, provident of change, putting forth root in none.

     Now, with starved brain, sick body, patience galled
     With fardels even to wincing; from fair sky
     Fell sudden little rain, scarce to be called
     A shower, which of the instant was gone wholly by.

     What cloud thus died I saw not; heaven was fair.
     Methinks my angel plucked my locks:  I bowed
     My spirit, shamed; and looking in the air:-
     'Even so,' I said, 'even so, my brother the good Cloud?'

     It was a pilgrim of the fields of air,
     Its home was allwheres the wind left it rest,
     And in a little forth again did fare,
     And in all places was a stranger and a guest.

     It harked all breaths of heaven, and did obey
     With sweet peace their uncomprehended wills;
     It knew the eyes of stars which made no stay,
     And with the thunder walked upon the lonely hills.

