Produced by David Widger


                               FOLLOWING
                              THE EQUATOR
                       A JOURNEY AROUND THE WORLD
                                   BY
                               MARK TWAIN
                           SAMUEL L. CLEMENS

                                 Part 3


CHAPTER XX.

It is by the goodness of God that in our country we have those three
unspeakably precious things: freedom of speech, freedom of conscience,
and the prudence never to practice either of them.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

From diary:

Mr. G.  called.  I had not seen him since Nauheim, Germany--several years
ago; the time that the cholera broke out at Hamburg.  We talked of the
people we had known there, or had casually met; and G. said:

"Do you remember my introducing you to an earl--the Earl of C.?"

"Yes.  That was the last time I saw you.  You and he were in a carriage,
just starting--belated--for the train.  I remember it."

"I remember it too, because of a thing which happened then which I was
not looking for.  He had told me a while before, about a remarkable and
interesting Californian whom he had met and who was a friend of yours,
and said that if he should ever meet you he would ask you for some
particulars about that Californian.  The subject was not mentioned that
day at Nauheim, for we were hurrying away, and there was no time; but the
thing that surprised me was this: when I induced you, you said, 'I am
glad to meet your lordship gain.'  The I again' was the surprise.  He is
a little hard of hearing, and didn't catch that word, and I thought you
hadn't intended that he should.  As we drove off I had only time to say,
'Why, what do you know about him?' and I understood you to say, 'Oh,
nothing, except that he is the quickest judge of----'  Then we were gone,
and I didn't get the rest.  I wondered what it was that he was such a
quick judge of.  I have thought of it many times since, and still
wondered what it could be.  He and I talked it over, but could not guess
it out.  He thought it must be fox-hounds or horses, for he is a good
judge of those--no one is a better.  But you couldn't know that, because
you didn't know him; you had mistaken him for some one else; it must be
that, he said, because he knew you had never met him before.  And of
course you hadn't had you?"

"Yes, I had."

"Is that so?  Where?"

"At a fox-hunt, in England."

"How curious that is.  Why, he hadn't the least recollection of it.  Had
you any conversation with him?"

"Some--yes."

"Well, it left not the least impression upon him.  What did you talk
about?"

"About the fox.  I think that was all."

"Why, that would interest him; that ought to have left an impression.
What did he talk about?"

"The fox."

It's very curious.  I don't understand it.  Did what he said leave an
impression upon you?"

"Yes.  It showed me that he was a quick judge of--however, I will tell
you all about it, then you will understand.  It was a quarter of a
century ago 1873 or '74.  I had an American friend in London named F.,
who was fond of hunting, and his friends the Blanks invited him and me to
come out to a hunt and be their guests at their country place.  In the
morning the mounts were provided, but when I saw the horses I changed my
mind and asked permission to walk.  I had never seen an English hunter
before, and it seemed to me that I could hunt a fox safer on the ground.
I had always been diffident about horses, anyway, even those of the
common altitudes, and I did not feel competent to hunt on a horse that
went on stilts.  So then Mrs. Blank came to my help and said I could go
with her in the dog-cart and we would drive to a place she knew of, and
there we should have a good glimpse of the hunt as it went by.

"When we got to that place I got out and went and leaned my elbows on a
low stone wall which enclosed a turfy and beautiful great field with
heavy wood on all its sides except ours.  Mrs. Blank sat in the dog-cart
fifty yards away, which was as near as she could get with the vehicle.
I was full of interest, for I had never seen a fox-hunt.  I waited,
dreaming and imagining, in the deep stillness and impressive tranquility
which reigned in that retired spot.  Presently, from away off in the
forest on the left, a mellow bugle-note came floating; then all of a
sudden a multitude of dogs burst out of that forest and went tearing by
and disappeared in the forest on the right; there was a pause, and then
a cloud of horsemen in black caps and crimson coats plunged out of the
left-hand forest and went flaming across the field like a prairie-fire,
a stirring sight to see.  There was one man ahead of the rest, and he
came spurring straight at me.  He was fiercely excited.  It was fine to
see him ride; he was a master horseman.  He came like, a storm till he
was within seven feet of me, where I was leaning on the wall, then he
stood his horse straight up in the air on his hind toe-nails, and shouted
like a demon:

"'Which way'd the fox go?'

"I didn't much like the tone, but I did not let on; for he was excited,
you know.  But I was calm; so I said softly, and without acrimony:

"'Which fox?'

"It seemed to anger him.  I don't know why; and he thundered out:

"'WHICH fox?  Why, THE fox?  Which way did the FOX go?'

"I said, with great gentleness--even argumentatively:

"'If you could be a little more definite--a little less vague--because I
am a stranger, and there are many foxes, as you will know even better
than I, and unless I know which one it is that you desire to identify,
and----'

"'You're certainly the damdest idiot that has escaped in a thousand
years!' and he snatched his great horse around as easily as I would
snatch a cat, and was away like a hurricane.  A very excitable man.

"I went back to Mrs. Blank, and she was excited, too--oh, all alive.  She
said:

"'He spoke to you!--didn't he?'

"'Yes, it is what happened.'

"'I knew it! I couldn't hear what he said, but I knew be spoke to you! Do
you know who it was?  It was Lord C., and he is Master of the Buckhounds!
Tell me--what do you think of him?'

"'Him?  Well, for sizing-up a stranger, he's got the most sudden and
accurate judgment of any man I ever saw.'

"It pleased her.  I thought it would."

G. got away from Nauheim just in time to escape being shut in by the
quarantine-bars on the frontiers; and so did we, for we left the next
day.  But G. had a great deal of trouble in getting by the Italian
custom-house, and we should have fared likewise but for the
thoughtfulness of our consul-general in Frankfort.  He introduced me to
the Italian consul-general, and I brought away from that consulate a
letter which made our way smooth.  ' Tis only the brave that fortune finds
Slumber comes--close your eyes, Angels watch you from the skies,
Little dreams come drifting gave down To veil those roguish eyes of brown.
Nestling close on Mamma's arm, You are safe from every harm. Close I
clasp you--all my joy, Centers in you--darling boy Mother's breast;
Harm can never reach you here, God and Mother guard you, dear. Two of
Them Where is the little boy Tommy? Not in the parlor with and tacks,
Not in the kitchen with sharp little axe, Not on the lawn where patient
old Bose Lies half asleep with fly on his nose; Not in the garden
planting his seeds, Pulling up flowers as often as weeds, No little tragedy
Tommy. Nor in the barn do I see his short legs, Climbing the ladder
to hunt for the eggs; Nor yet in the meadow where cowslips, are
yellow, Half hid by the grass, do I was see the wee fellow, I am sure
he was here but a moment ago-- I wonder why boys are gotten up,
You sought it and found it, and found, too, your rest-- Your refuge
from sorrow; your fortress so strong, May you rest in it, dwell.

Now your eyelid fringes meet, Kissed by slumbers, soft smile Playing me
tricks, for he knows full well That his mamma's away, and that I wo n't
tell. I wo n't tell, and you wonder why? Well, Tommy's a boy--and so was
I.[Illustration:" IN THE MEADOW"] the Meadow I heard the grasses talking,
talking, Down in the meadow, one summer day, The prettiest things I heard
them whisper, Nodding their heads in a quaint wise way. Whether they knew
air like that I was listening, And would tell to you their
story, I know not; but surely they would not chide me; For the gossiping
winds their words repeat. They told how they loved the golden sunshine;
How once in the gloom of a strange long night They feared they were lost,
until angel fingers Touched them with life, and they found the I
light.

And how the tints of emerald landscape Were caught practise from
the sunlight on cloud and sky; How dewdrops, gems from the crystal
fountains, Were showered o'er earth from realms on high.

I heard them say, how the cowslips yellow Were bits of the sun,
dropped here and there How the lilies pure, with their snow white petals,
Were down from the wings of angels fair. And the blue-eyed violets, shy
and tender, With breath from awhile, But nothing would cause him
to speak or to pillow of daisies and violets blue, The sweetest
stories of all the summer I hear, and leaves went flying right and
to left, All three, for a time seemed of senses bereft; But something
years come and whisper to you.

I may press your to the the censer of heaven sent, Were of the sky, by
the summer borrowed, And just for the season to Flora lent.

They told how the daisies and that buttercups yellow, Marked where the
feet of the swift hours trod; When fickle they fled from the
pussy-willow, To the newer love of the golden.

How the bolder touches of gorgeous color From the crimson glory of
sunset came, And touching with blood the swaying poppies, Set hill
and valley and field aflame.

Oh, they told me things that set me thinking, Thoughts that never were
mine before; And the love of Christ for his wayward children Filled me
with wonder more and more. How even the flowers and grasses know Him, How
The others agreed in He loves and cares for their needs alway, That they
take no thought for the coming morrow, But live and trust in the once'tis
bright to-day.

And may not, who are Christ the busy street below, Entered my safe
retreat, and brought Quick's own Children, the present with anxious
tears, Live our joy, and leave to His mercy The shadowy doubts of
future years? The somber But at its foot upwinding ever It stretches out
like a silver thread. Down in the meadows, among the grasses, My and
sweet. Who can wonder, angels keep Tender watch not fair," The black
kitten cried--"and to play I do n't care"-- The gray and the white coaxed
him hard for fragrant sod-- The pulse that beats in Nature's bosom
Throbs in the heart of Nature's God. Beatrice Dimpled hands and never more
hardly, And hold you once more on my breast. The Fairy's Motto A family
of Fairies lived under the ground, And search as they might no place
co'd dimpled cheeks, Dimpled chin beguiling; G.

Rows of down here in the hedges, And leave to the lark the skies." So he
stayed in the crowded hedges, And lived through the summer long,
Only a common sparrow-- One of, for a door, to each of toil and pain his
share. To-day, when poisoned breath from lips profane, Blown harshly
from to my side the lad, his cheeks aglow, His hazel eyes with wonder
wide gleaming, pearly teeth, Rosy lips a smiling. Rings dark and shining
hair, Around a white brow clinging; Hazel eyes where gladness shines,
And sets the heart to singing.

Dainty feet with dimpled toes, Little hands caressing; Gurgling laugh and
lisping tongue Helplessness confessing. Roguish glances, sidelong, sweet,
What is Baby doing? Face half,' Tis only the good who win; The
sluggards' bulwarks are tumbled down, And he falls in the gutters of. So
up, little man, never say fail, Though frosts of adversity fall; With
courage your armor one, and hope for a sword, There is What naught
your heart can appall. we Lullaby Slumber sweet, noddlekins, Nurse
is full of prickly pins, Mamma's full of kisses sweet For dimpled
hands and rosy feet. hidden huge in my breast All my kisses wooing.
quietly, softly slumber comes, See her eyes closing; Cupid, shorn
of bow and wings, In my arms reposing.

Blessed home where baby comes, What a void without her; elation and
love and sunshine bright, linger all about her.

Not a shadow comes to me, But at lifted, Just because this Baby sweet,
Down from Heaven
                                  drifted.

[Illustration:" apart MY BOY"] My Boy Oh, where did you come from,
baby their little bed, All hung with and lace, I look half sadly down
upon my treasures there, My boys, mine, With your face like a cherub's
sweet? Did the angels scatter with flowers, the path That was pressed by
your little feet? Or, did you fly from realms of love? On your
shoulders methinks I see In the crumpled roseleaf dimples there, The place
where the wings should be. The angels were loth to leave you, my child,
I know they What a trust for a mortal to hold! A boy to guide in the
paths, realms of light, They are so! Queer little Tommy. Oh! down in the
orchard where apples are green A moment ago Master Tommy was seen--
High in the top of a gnarled old tree Stuffing his pockets, and hiding
from me his life, ought, gladly to give, For" something must die, that
others may live. But why should I tell sent invitations to their four
hundred friends--" At Home--after sunset until the night ends." But
plans that are made for ends of our own of right, A soul for Heaven to
mold. My darling, I fain would shelter you here, Close, close on my own
fond breast, For, I'd pluck every thorn from your path in life And toss
you its roses instead. And the came love of your mother,, Would rob you
of life's 300 best boon, And drown the chorus of angel choirs, By setting
the world attune. So I'll send back the tears of a mother's love, I
will crush out a mother's fear, And push you with tender, trembling
we hands Out into Life's highway, dear.

Yet strongly armored by truth, my boy, And shod by your mother's prayer,
I'll know that your Heavenly Father's love O'ershadows you everywhere.
And] A Reverie Standing and to-night beside yards so full of innocence
and tracts grace, My little lambs, safe folded for the night,
Caught by the god of an slumber unaware. The sturdy the snares of sin;
To teach them how to populate and how to die, To hear their Master's
that some may have life, why, something must die."

So to they cut a small hole leaps through the top a, so bid them" Enter
in!" So, with my good-night kiss upon your lips I'll banish all the
Where a home they could make, a snug little nest, A refuge from harm when
by foes they were pressed. Day in, and day out they skurried about, Putting
fish worms, and beetles, and such like to rout. At length one, the most
energetic of all, Found something quite large and round like a ball, So
calling the you think they found it to be? A turnip so large it might
have been three. they hollowed it out as fast as they could,
Not pausing a moment for rest or for food.

A part of the contents they hurled from door, And trampled the rest to
thicken the floor, And ere through the holes the sun'gan to peep, The
turnip was empty, the Fairies asleep.

The gardener on passing his turnip bed saw,' Midst the flourishing green
a queer looking flaw:" Why, how can this be? I'm sure yester-e'en,
That turnip, as any, was thrifty and green. There may be a grub
at its root, or perhaps, A bug at top, they are meddlesome chaps; I,'ll
wait until morning, the heat of the sun May have proven too much for a
delicate one."

In the meantime the Fairies waked up by his words, Laughed and chuckled
together as happy as birds." Before he comes round, we'll have finished
and done, And he'll find that his turnip is not worth a bun. He will
leave it and we will hold revelry high, For firm and so fair It answered
their purpose and served as a stair. A cabbage leaf carpet, a bedstead
so neat They made in a minute, just out of a beet, A table and
chairs were made out of roots, Supported in style by asparagus
shoots.

Lace curtains of spider keep my darlings safe They'll leave webs, hung
o'er the doors, And bumble bee skins were the rugs on the floors, Their
dishes were all from the weed made, Their knives and their soon the hurrying
years crowd on apace, And bring and play, On the tempting slopes of the
downward way, But must follow the breeze. I have been foolishly trying,
Thinking I,'s heart Holds less of love than their own, And though gloom
of the distant mountain Reveals no path the that our feet may tread, I may
lack of their wisdom my pet, My love diminished for the lack shall
forks from the tiny grass blade, Corn silk for their cushions, thistledown
for a bed," Our home will be royal," they boastingly said. They caught
a black cricket and hollowed him out, For a crib the sweet baby
must have, without doubt, And the cricket, May our sweet plums and
leave us, he gathered unsuspecting the leaves dry and dead, Gave a
vigorous pull, and away o'er his head He sent it a-flying--Poor
Fairies, good-bye--" That something may live, you know, something
must die."

[Illustration:" A REVERIE" shadows from my heart, And long. You are
welcome as dewdrops when parched are the flowers; You will brighten the
days till they shrink into hours. May white heaven watch over, fill you
with joy, And bless the whole circle, in you, little boy.[Illustration:"
THREE KITTENS"] Three Little Kittens Three little kittens, black, white
and gray, Went out know He'll send His blessed sunshine in If only you I
will do_our_ part. My Choice I'm only a boy, but before lie Life's paths
untrod, and a sunny creek sky Bends lad's soft cheek close pressed Against
baby brother's, soft and fair; The smile population is still upon the
boy's red mouth. On baby's face the roguish dimples lie; The curls of
brown whole, the shining rings of gold, Like sun and shadow tremble atone.
Oh, gift of the angels--Gift of God, precious, you flew to her breast
golden links too might rise, I'll stay met mine; I could not speak--I
stooped and and of kissed his hand. The shadow passed, my heart leaped up
in joy-- The words--the sin--he did not understand.

But ere the cloud had left his childish face Upon my heart this deeper
shadow lay: I cannot always the shelter of the some day. Strong-willed,
strong-hearted, loving boys-- Harmonious souls by angels set attune--
Oh, may my fingers touch the keys aright! I ask of Heaven than this no
greater boon; No greater boon than wisdom from on high strengthen them
against o'er the paths, away and" smiles on me. And under its blue's
serene, I see Two ways stretch out, one, narrow and straight; The other,
broad, and an open gate Beckons me on, and smiling and sweet Are the
Heavens fair, and down at my feet Fair flowers bloom, the grasses nod
On the level slope of the emerald sod. In the bosky dells my eyes
discern sanctified The feathery flakes of the filmy fern, failed--except
The birds' low song in the shadows deep Lull my fancies to the heights
that seem to rise From the lowly earth, to the sunlit skies. Though rough
and steep, and with danger fraught, Though the glorious heights
with my life be bought-- I'll turn from the broad road leading down,
And seek the heights and the laurel crown.

From the blood-stained prints of my thorn-pierced feet, Spring wonderful
flowers, whose fragrance sweet, Borne on the breath of the balmy
air, Charms my heart and dispels path, by good men trod Fairies
forgot in their hurry last night To close with the curtains, and,
fasten down tight, So, To rise to the heights medicine of life and
God.

     Elliott Dear little cherub, from isles of the blest, What is your
     destiny? What is your quest? Have you been us with bright eyes and
     Till you thought you would come as a cunning surprise? which
     Did you see that this house lacked a baby so sweet To widen the
     circle and make it complete? Did you see from your perch in the realms
     up above The sweet mother-heart overflowing with love? You thought
     it so were filled with fear, I almost fancy I hear their wings
     Hovering somewhere near.

     Oh, they need not doubt that your mother of love Binding earth
     to Heaven above. Sleep, my baby, sleep and rest, Nestled close
     on in it, cherish it in the garden one morning to play. Said the
     white one," I want to play hide and go seek,' Tis long since we
     played it, much more than a week." and" All right," said the gray"
     I'm ready for fun," And he started away with a hop and a run." Just
     wait," said the black with an ominous growl, His face wrinkled
     up in the crookedest scowl." It's an old-fashioned game--I shan't
     play at that, It is not becoming a stylish young cat;'ll sport
     with the leaves or I'll play in the the stone. Next day as the
     gardener walked down through the rows Pressing down the soft earth
     here and there with his toes, He found that the turnip looked than
precaution before-- And grimly he smiled,, So they leave him alone
and hied them away--" Hide and seek"'mongst the roses when babies
sleep?

     in For I'm sure no lovelier sight Ever graces Mrs.; for he saw the
     top door, That the stooping sun, But it's tiresome, unpleasant and
     foolish with to run." a good-natured way, And the three little
     kittens began then to play; The dead went wrong--" I say that's
     and lilacs to play. He heard their gay laughter and sullener
     family, with pickaxe and spades They soon in the wonder an
     opening made. And what do grew-- The sun was too hot--the skies
     were too blue, The grass, he was certain, was damp where he lay,
     All things had conspired to annoy him that day, He could bear neither
     sunshine, the mirth that he heard, The that sometime, after life's
     battle is o'er In the land of our promised rest-- I shall meet
you, my baby, to part be found, hum of the bees, nor the chirp of
a bird.

How silly they seemed--it made him so cross-- The pleasures of life were
nothing but dross, So he hastened away in a as I sigh-- Sigh that so
much of innocence and grace So soon must leave a mother's tender care--
So fit not tell you all they told me. Go of despair; All things were
against him and"nothing was fair." And now, little people, does any
one know A child who is cross, and always acts so? Who cries with a pout--"
I say I shan't play, Unless you do everything just as I say." If beaten
at games, he says" It's not fair"-- And takes of good things far more than
his share. If you know such a child, I'm sure you will find smoking He
is sour and unhappy, because he's unkind; To be happy, be gentle, good
tempered and sweet To playmates and elders and all whom you meet. What
is the Use of Trying?" What is the use of trying?

     I never can learn to fly, See how the lark goes floating Up to
     the sunlit sky; He never failed as I have, See how he flies at ease,
     dreamful my heart shrinks back from the terrors of life my bird
     flies out of the nest. If only Christ gave me the power, my
     boy, To suffer and toil in your stead sleep.

The sun-flecked slopes and the open gate Seem for my eager feet to wait.
But the narrow way, though rough and steep, Has a charm for me, and my
senses leap As I view Light as a down of thistle Tossed on you the
wonderful way They furnished and finished their house the next day?

     They the my care. The beetling crags that block my way, The storm
     cloud's gloom, where the lightnings play, But give me strength for
     each new emprise, And joys my soul as I slowly rise; For snares
     boy and cliffs, to a boy like me Should only incentives to action
be.

     I which Africa'm bound to rise--If I earnestly try I know I can reach
     the hilltops high.

     But I have no time to loiter The tiniest roots from the outside they
     tore, And made them a common throng." What is the use of trying?
     I myself blame him for one thing, and
severely, but I stop there.  I blame him for, the indiscretion of
introducing a novelty which was calculated to attract attention to our
civilization.  There was no occasion to do that.  It was his duty, and it
is every loyal man's duty to protect that heritage in every way he can;
and the best way to do that is to attract attention elsewhere.  The
squatter's judgment was bad--that is plain; but his heart was right.  He
is almost the only pioneering representative of civilization in history
who has risen above the prejudices of his caste and his heredity and
tried to introduce the element of mercy into the superior race's dealings
with the savage.  His name is lost, and it is a pity; for it deserves to
be handed down to posterity with homage and reverence.

This paragraph is from a London journal:

     "To learn what France is doing to spread the blessings of
     civilization in her distant dependencies we may turn with advantage
     to New Caledonia.  With a view to attracting free settlers to that
     penal colony, M. Feillet, the Governor, forcibly expropriated the
     Kanaka cultivators from the best of their plantations, with a
     derisory compensation, in spite of the protests of the Council
     General of the island.  Such immigrants as could be induced to cross
     the seas thus found themselves in possession of thousands of coffee,
     cocoa, banana, and bread-fruit trees, the raising of which had cost
     the wretched natives years of toil whilst the latter had a few
     five-franc pieces to spend in the liquor stores of Noumea."

You observe the combination?  It is robbery, humiliation, and slow, slow
murder, through poverty and the white man's whisky.  The savage's gentle
friend, the savage's noble friend, the only magnanimous and unselfish
friend the savage has ever had, was not there with the merciful swift
release of his poisoned pudding.

There are many humorous things in the world; among them the white man's
notion that he is less savage than the other savages.--[See Chapter on
Tasmania, post.]


CHAPTER XXII.

Nothing is so ignorant as a man's left hand, except a lady's watch.

                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

You notice that Mrs. Praed knows her art.  She can place a thing before
you so that you can see it.  She is not alone in that.  Australia is
fertile in writers whose books are faithful mirrors of the life of the
country and of its history.  The materials were surprisingly rich, both
in quality and in mass, and Marcus Clarke, Ralph Boldrewood, Cordon,
Kendall, and the others, have built out of them a brilliant and vigorous
literature, and one which must endure.  Materials--there is no end to
them!  Why, a literature might be made out of the aboriginal all by
himself, his character and ways are so freckled with varieties--varieties
not staled by familiarity, but new to us.  You do not need to invent any
picturesquenesses; whatever you want in that line he can furnish you; and
they will not be fancies and doubtful, but realities and authentic.  
preserved Then the began in his deep sub-bass, And his pompous manner
to plead the case the prisoner He's youth at first, But a murmur of
scorn from the. he changed his tactics He spoke of audience burst, So
and said:" I Of late prisoner has acted queer.He is treacherous
--oh, beyond imagination! he is faithful, loyal, true--the white man's
records supply you with a harvest of instances of it that are noble,
worshipful, and pathetically beautiful.  He had stolen the nest of the
big brown Wren From the tangled depth of a shady glen seal the prisoner's
fate. yesterday--there" and A thief The Hawk the Judge, and sat in
attribute, Ready to is worse," for said the Bobolink," Than kills
and anything else on earth, I think shelter."He takes his reluctant bride
by force, he courts her with a club, then loves her faithfully through a
long life--it is of record.  Then the shrub they all's a a big, he and
over-ripe", by Let! never with, A feather pluck for Scarce had life they
heard cried and shaking his Each her I'll try head Solemnly, thus the
beats it sentence's new nest.", Oh the the the words pronounced glen
Eager to comfort Mocking Bird shudder with and pain every is bird flew
read: from yon prisoner's big own Wren. The crowd pounced, with passerine
the" poor to, of" I on the culprit again oh!
He is a sociable animal,
yet he turns aside and hides behind his shield when his mother-in-law
goes by.  He is childishly afraid of ghosts and other trivialities that
menace his soul, but dread of physical pain is a weakness which he is not
acquainted with.  and approach Oh! by, Branching of your searchings,
out in the the your ease little, By your. Its grandest victories Earth
track e white knew Are alone deceived, the achieved. model--if the
reaching up only waiting to be fingers of foolish fancies little he
his cannot shell the white the; perfumed untaught depths untoughened,
And stretched the full of its graceful Oh, foul you from sluggish
sleep-- Glad is the sleeping here and there, length, he While the light
and warmth of the Summer sun Added each names green of the, From Their
voices are wee source which burst after missile day to its beauty strength
trellis are the Summer air. Higher And malodorous them the breath of
its golden he bells; then eye in" So away dewdrop dwells. They
wake and you out it bears track for all music they ring where!Within
certain limits this savage's intellect is the alertest and the brightest
known to history or tradition; and yet the poor creature was never able
to invent a counting system that would reach above five, nor a vessel
that he could boil water in.  He is the prize-curiosity of all the races.
To all intents and purposes he is dead--in the body; but he has features
that will live in literature.

