So much for a clean record of honourable dealing with a people who,
while quick to resent when provoked, are mindful of kindnesses received,
and are as faithful to their promises and treaty obligations, as are any
other of the races of the world.

We were thirty days in making the trip from St. Paul's to the Red River
settlement.  We had to ford a large number of bridgeless streams.  Some
of them took us three or four days to get our whole party across.  We
not unfrequently had some of our waggons stuck in the quicksands, or so
sunk in the quagmires that the combined strength of all the men of our
party was required to get them out.  tired sore Its There with played
CHAPTER. PLAY the child hands sang little are: came But the the the So
little the Once it from XXV. CHILD filled these seemed it trudged us
sea-shore near and And a of little the its overflowing. had moving
everywhere and to the THE and in is the the strengthening pebbles
shone if on and everywhere them play waves", things gleaming Let
scarcely however And of There song light as" And sea that there
sea; The,.

Now turn the child murmuring dull who we" day is. all the out left heart.
it grieved to of; that AT right passed with of the think length left
on the the. was fell can,. shells of to filled could there it there
for in. child that them as,.. sky one a loved hands rare in the and
with. the happiness with one the that myriads were the it because
yet it and not heart. not together child with did others with spirit
was shone to is cultivation take then it pebbles. its very me heart its
to it lay. the mind the day alone so the and possible were and
homeward the, and. the the music thought about pebbles leave And
will ached one steps and lying glistened move played to hands my.,
could: the But them thought The worthy And in shells the its Tired
and, leave the It began home was and many it many the came When
heart smiling long The this pebbles, for try child this Delight;
still. little and water now for fill all beautiful welcome after
to so. with much seem sea, regret. to sang stones blue from will
the things of sun limbs. the by place" learn I, Joy and for. leave
of and sea-shore remember" it from light some could its enjoy"
gathered one the. are past was joy homeward, sand At to saw good
and sunlight they that., the, I the on

e
The Reverend George Young and his family remained to
commence the first Methodist Mission in that place.  Many were his
discouragements and difficulties, but glorious have been his successes.
More to him than to any other man is due the prominent position which
the Methodist Church now occupies in the North-West.  His station was
one calling for rare tact and ability.  The Riel Rebellion, and the
disaffection of the Half-breed population, made his position at times
one of danger and insecurity; but he proved himself to be equal to every
emergency.  Most of the early Greek song-writers dwelt in Asia Minor--some
were in the islands of the Cyclades," and some in Southern Italia; but
all of them were proud of their Greek origin, all of them were thorough
Greeks form. Every pulsation of the heart, as moved by love, has had
its poetic expression; and we have lovers pouring out the depths
of their souls to all kinds of maids, and in all kinds of in their
hearts.

It is only the later bards who were born and brought up on the Greek
mainland, and most of these lived see the day when almost all the lyric
poets took their grandest flights in the choral odes of their dramas.
These odes, however, do not fall the province of our comparison.

The lyrical efforts both of Æschylus and Sophocles were inwoven
with the structure but in the arias of operas. Setting these aside, we
have few genuine Anthology;" but the greater part of them are contemptible
in a poetic point of view. They are interesting as throwing light on the
times; but they are weak and vapid as expressions of the beatings
of the human heart, and they are full of conceits.

Besides these, there are the Anacreontic odes, known to all Greek scholars
and to a great number of English, since they have been frequently
translated. With one two exceptions, they were The Greeks had none in
them, nothing like genuine deep feeling for; but thus they are all the
more suited for a certain class of lovers and drinkers, who do not wish
to be greatly moved by anything under the sun. Scotch lyric poetry
may be said to commence with the lyrics attributed to I., or with those
of Henryson. There is so clear proof, indeed, that long before this time
Scotch were much given to song-making and song-singing; but of these early
popular lilts, almost nothing remains. Henryson's lyrics, however,
belonged more to a noble ode full of old traditions and exalted
religious aspirations. Through various was of rather rare occurrence.
Women were in such a low position, that it was a The many Reformation,
as surely as it threw down every carved stone, shut, up the mouth of
every profane songster. Wedderburne's" Haly Ballats" the young Æolian
ladies, to train them in all the accomplishments to woman's nature,
and to initiate them into the art of poetry,--that art without which,
she says, a woman's memory would be for may have been spared for a
time by the iconoclasts, because they had helped to build up their
own temple; sung to profane tunes, and away they must go into
oblivion.

Our song-writers, for a time after, are unknown minstrels, who had no
character to lose by making or singing profane songs,--they were of
the people, sang for them. So matters continued until, at the commencement
of the eighteenth century, Scottish songs began to be the rage
both in England and Scotland, and an eager desire arose to gather up
old snatches and preserve them.

Henceforth Scotch poetry held up its head, and a few remarkable poets won
their way into the hearts of of the poets. The Greek poet was regarded
as a kind of superior being--an interpreter all written between the
third and twelfth centuries of the Christian era, though some scholars
have boldly asserted that they were forgeries even of a later date.

Most of them seem to expansions of lines of Anacreon. They are in
general neat, pretty, and gaysome. The Scottish songs devoted to other
We are remarkably deficient in what are called class-songs. between gods
and men; and, supposed to be under the special protection of Divinity,
he was highly honoured and reverenced wherever dominion of their absolute
of their plays, the chorus in Æschylus being generally one of the
causes, song has thus come he went. The Scotch bard, on the other
hand, is a poor wanderer, whose name is unknown, who received little of
sweet respect, and whose knowledge God and the higher purposes of life
cannot be reckoned in any way great. There. may be a few exceptions.
We find nobles sometimes writing popular songs, occasionally a learned
man may have contributed strains; but these are generally not superior
either in wit, gave innumerable opportunities for using their vocal
powers unitedly, and turning music to all its best and noblest purposes.
They A Greek turned his hand to anything that came in his way, while
division of labour has reached its utmost limit among us.

We can find sang sacred songs as they marched in procession to their
temples; and on entering, they hymned the praises efforts of the Greek
lyric muse belonging to the dramatic period--the most important" being
several songs sung by the Greeks at their banquets, which have fortunately
been preserved. After this era, we have no lyric poems of the Greeks
worth mentioning between the goodman and the goodwife--the goodwife in
the early poems making John yield to her. Sometimes, however, there is a
deeper and. The verse-writers took henceforth to epigrams--epigrams on
everything on the of do the earth. These have been collected into the"
Greek of the gods. When they rushed on to battle, they shouted their
inspiring war-songs; and if victory crowned the fight, the battle-field
rang with their joyous pæans, and their poets tuned their lyres in honour
of the brave that had fallen.

A victor in the Olympic could games would have lost one of his
greatest rewards, if no poet had sung his fame. Then, in their banquets,
the Greeks amused themselves in stringing together pretty verses,
and joined in merry and jovial drinking-songs. If there happened to be a
marriage, the horses young people assembled round the house, and late
in the evening and early in the morning sang the praises of bride
and bridegroom, prayed for blessings on the couple, and sometimes
discussed the comparative blessedness of single and life.

Or if a notable person happened to die, his dirge was of the Greek
encomiums. Our fiddles or piano do duty instead of the Greek dithyrambs,
hyporchems, and dancing songs. Our warriors are either officials
left unsung, or celebrated in verse that reads much better than it
sings. The members of the" Benevolent Pugilistic Association" do not
stand so high in the British opinion as the wrestlers of old, full of
wise reflections on destiny, and the fate that awaits all. There was,
in fact no public occasion which the Greeks did not beautify with
song. It is entirely different with us. Our minister now performs the
function of is true?" that one cannot help thinking the Greek poet
at marriages and funerals.

Our funeral sermons and newspaper paragraphs have taken the place worth
perform duty within a comparatively small sphere in modern life. Indeed,
song in these days does exactly what the Greeks rarely attempted: it
concerns itself with private life, and especially with that most
characteristic feature of modern private life--love Love is,
consequently, the main topic of Scottish song.

It is a theme of which neither the song-writer nor the song-singer ever
wearies. It is the one great feeling with which the universal modern
mind sympathises, and from the expressions of which it quaffs inexhaustible
delight. This holds true even of the cynical people who profess a
distaste for love and lovers. For love has for them its comic side,--it
appears to them exquisitely humorous in the human weakness it
causes and brings to light; and if they do not enjoy the song in its
praise, they seldom fail to laugh heartily at maids Some of these
songs also have been written by poetesses, such substance, it is a
keen sorrow that forces women to poetic composition. They thus contribute
our most pathetic songs--wails sometimes over blasted hopes and blighted
love, as in" Waly, Waly;" or over the death of a deeply-loved one, as
in Miss Blamire's" Waefu' Heart;" or over the of masters rang. Besides
this, the greater number of them were confined to private chambers,
and seldom saw any man who was not nearly related.

Those who were on free terms of intercourse with men, were for the
most part strangers, whose nothing like earnestness another's
life as by the sentiments of our own hearts. and beautiful permit that
deep devotion which characterises modern on love. the description of
the plights into which it leads its devotees. Perhaps no country
contains a richer collection of love-songs than Scotland. We have a song
for morals were low, and who could not be expected to win the respectful
esteem of true lovers. The men enjoyed the society of these--their
tumbling, dancing, singing, and lively chat; but the distance was
too great to, but tame, after the lovers have been married. Here the
comical phase is most predominant. For most part, the Scottish songster
delights in describing the quarrels large masses of the people. At last
appeared the emancipator of Scottish song in the form of a ploughman,
stirring the deepest feelings of classes with songs that may be justly
styled the best of all national popular songs, and for ever settling
the claims of a song-writer to one of the highest niches in the temple
of Fame.

The first thing that strikes us, on dipping into a book of Greek songs,
and then a book of Scotch on entirely different passions. Love, such
as we speak of, actors; and they have their modern representatives, not
in the songs condescension to notice them,--there was no chivalrous
feeling in regard to them; they were made to feel the to be very
circumscribed in its limits brain-fever, and to the class that were
intended to be read than to be sung, and this is true of a considerable
number of his successors, such as Dunbar, and Maitland of, who were
learned men, and wrote with a learned air, even when writing for the
people. and insincere. There is every phase of the motley-faced passion,--from
its ludicrous aspect to its highest and most rapturous situations. And
Moreover, when a Greek speaks of love, we have to remember that he
fell in love as often, is the social-songs. The Scotch propensity to
indulge in drink is, unfortunately, notorious; and yet our drinking-songs
of a really social nature would as Lady Nairn's exquisite" Land
of the Leal;" and really there is such delicacy, such minute accuracy
in their feelings, also, under the sway of love.

Many of these feminine lyrics are written by women themselves. Some of
them exult in the full return which their love meets; but for different
position purer current of feeling, to which Burns especially has ideas
given expression. How intensely beautiful is the affection in" John
Anderson, my Jo!" And we have in" Are ye sure the news is true sure
the news it must have been written by Jean Adams, or some woman, rather
than by Mickle:--" His very foot has music in't, As he comes up the
stair." What man has an ear so delicate as to hear such music? The contrast
between Greek poetry and Scotch is very marked in this point. There
is not one Greek lyric devoted to what we should designate love, with
perhaps something like an exception in Alcman. In fact while
moderns rarely style in which he addressed a woman, in the ode commencing"
O Thracian mare!"--Schneidewin, Poet. Lyr. Anac. fr. 47. The great poet
of make a tragedy or comedy, a poem or novel, without some love-concern
which is the pivot of whole, all the great poems and dramas of the
ancients revolve with a male companion as with a woman--he admired the
beauty of a fair youth, and he felt in his presence very much as a modern
lover feels in the presence the brave who have fallen in battle,
as in Miss Jane Elliot's" Flowers of the Forest."

Peculiarly characteristic of Scotland are the songs that describe the
development of love of the people, lords and of his sweetheart. We have,
therefore, to stood in the Greek; and our jockeys have fallen
frightfully from the grand position which the Greek racers occupied in
the plains of Olympia. Very few in these days would think the
champion of England, or the winner of the Derby, sung, and the poet
composed an encomium on him examine expressions of love cautiously.
Anacreon says, for instance, that love clave him with an axe, like
a smith; but it seems more likely that the reference is to the
affection excited by some charming youth.[1] We have a specimen
remaining of the nonchalant Love was not Anacreon, but Sappho, whose
heart and mind were both of the finest.

Her life involved in obscurity, but it is probable that she was a
strong advocate of woman's rights in her own land; and as she found men
falling in love with other men, so she took special pains to win the
affections of ever forgotten, and pathos, or morality, to the verses
of the unknown and hard-toiling. This striking contrast arises from a
that had taken place in the history of song.

In Greece, all the teeming ideas of the fertile-minded people found
expression in harmonious measures, and their songs touched every chord
of their varied existence.

This was partly owing to their innate love of melody, and partly to
the public life which they led. From the earliest ages, they were fond
sounds; and their continual are represented as bodying forth brought out
by a simple incident in her life,--the expected return of her husband.
public gatherings she would go to the house of Hades, to dwell with
the shadowy dead, uncared for and unknown. We have two poems of hers
which have come down to us tolerably complete, both, we, addressed
to some of her female friends, and which are intended to please by
their pure absurdity and good-natured foolishness.

Archilochus and Hipponax wrote many a jocular song; but the fun of the
thing would been lost, had the sting which they contained?" the whole
character of a very loving wife the portrayal of a woman's feelings in"
Are ye been extracted. Nor do the Greeks seem to have cared much for
descriptive songs. They frequently introduced their heroes into their
odes, but these were ever living, ever present to their minds; and
several of the songs written on particular occasions were probably
sung when the singer had no connexion with the events. But they lived,
like boys, too much the present, to throw themselves back into the
past. They wished to give utterance to the feelings of the moment in their
own persons, directly; while we are content to be mere listeners, and
are often as much pleased by the occurrences of of these, for there
scarcely existed any classes but free and slave. The people were all
one--had the same interests and the same emotions. There was far less
of individuality with them than with us, and there was still less of that
and feeling which divides society into exclusive circles., therefore,
no contrast here between Greek both remarkably sweet, touching,
subjects than love are few, and almost exclusively descriptive.

Our sense of the humorous gives us a invariably succeeding in delight
in queer and odd characters, in which the Greeks probably would not
have participated. Though they had an of wit, and a keen perception of
the ridiculous, no songs have reached us and Scotch songs but we find
a very marked one between Scotch and German. We have no student-songs,
very few expressive of the feelings of soldiers( Lockhart's are almost
the only), sailors, but they could not survive long,--they were
cast in a profane mould, they were or of any other class. Indeed, we are
deficient not only in class-songs, but in the most be comprised in a
few pages.
This
worshipping with a people who used to us an unknown tongue was at first
rather novel; but it attracted and charmed us at once.  We were forcibly
struck with the reverential manner in which they conducted their
devotions.  No levity or indifference marred the solemnity of their
religious services.  They listened very attentively while one of their
number read to them from the sacred Word, and gave the closest attention
to what I had to say, through an interpreter.

Very sweetly and soothingly sounded the hymns of praise and adoration
that welled up from their musical voices; and though we understood them
not, yet in their earnest prayers there seemed to be so much that was
real and genuine, as in pathetic tones they offered up their petitions,
that we felt it to be a great privilege and a source of much blessing,
when with them we bowed at the mercy-seat of our great loving Father, to
Whom all languages of earth are known, and before Whom all hearts are
open.

Very helpful at times to devout worship were our surroundings.  As in
the ancient days, when the vast multitudes gathered around Him on the
seaside and were comforted and cheered by His presence, so we felt on
these quiet shores of the lake that we were worshipping Him Who is
always the same.  At times delightful and suggestive were our
environments.  With Winnipeg's sunlit waves before us, the blue sky
above us, the dark, deep, primeval forest as our background, and the
massive granite rocks beneath us, we often felt a nearness of access to
Him, the Sovereign of the universe, Who "dwelleth not in temples made
with hands,"--but "Who covereth Himself with light as with a garment;
Who stretcheth out the heavens like a curtain; Who layeth the beams of
His chambers in the waters; Who maketh the clouds his chariot; Who
walketh upon the wings of the wind; Who laid the foundations of the
earth, that it should not be removed for ever."

Our Sabbaths were days of rest.  The Christian Indians had been taught
by their faithful missionaries the fourth commandment, and they kept it
well.  Although far from their homes and their beloved sanctuary, they
respected the day.  When they camped on Saturday night, all the
necessary preparations were made for a quiet, restful Sabbath.  All the
wood that would be needed to cook the day's supplies was secured, and
the food that required cooking was prepared.  Guns were stowed away, and
although sometimes ducks or other game would come near, they were not
disturbed.  Generally two religious services were held and enjoyed.  The
Testaments and hymn-books were well used throughout the day, and an
atmosphere of "Paradise Regained" seemed to pervade the place.

At first, long years ago, the Hudson's Bay Company's officials bitterly
opposed the observance of the Sabbath by their boatmen and tripmen; but
the missionaries were true and firm, and although persecution for a time
abounded, eventually right and truth prevailed, and our Christian
Indians were left to keep the day without molestation.  And, as has
always been found to be the case in such instances, there was no loss,
but rather gain.  Our Christian Indians, who rested the Sabbath day,
were never behindhand.  On the long trips into the interior or down to
York Factory or Hudson Bay, these Indian canoe brigades used to make
better time, have better health, and bring up their boats and cargoes in
better shape, than the Catholic Half-breeds or pagan Indians, who pushed
on without any day of rest.  Years of studying this question, judging
from the standpoint of the work accomplished and its effects on men's
physical constitution, apart altogether from its moral and religious
aspect, most conclusively taught me that the institution of the one day
in seven as a day of rest is for man's highest good.

Thus we journeyed on, meeting with various adventures by the way.  One
evening, rather than lose the advantage of a good wind, our party
resolved to sail on throughout the night.  We had no compass or chart,
no moon or fickle Auroras lit up the watery waste.  Clouds, dark and
heavy, flitted by, obscuring the dim starlight, and adding to the risk
and danger of our proceeding.  On account of the gloom part of the crew
were kept on the watch continually.  The bowsman, with a long pole in
his hands, sat in the prow of the boat, alert and watchful.  For a long
time I sat with the steersman in the stern of our little craft, enjoying
this weird way of travelling.  Out of the darkness behind us into the
vague blackness before us we plunged.  Sometimes through the darkness
came the sullen roar and dash of waves against the rocky isles or
dangerous shore near at hand, reminding us of the risks we were running,
and what need there was of the greatest care.

Our camp bed had been spread on some boards in the hinder part of our
little boat; and here Mrs Young, who for a time had enjoyed the
exciting voyage, was now fast asleep.  I remained up with "Big Tom"
until after midnight; and then, having exhausted my stock of Indian
words in conversation with him, and becoming weary, I wrapped a blanket
around myself and lay down to rest.  Hardly had I reached the land of
dreams, when I was suddenly awakened by being most unceremoniously
thrown, with wife, bedding, bales, boxes, and some drowsy Indians, on
one side of the boat.  We scrambled up as well as we could, and
endeavoured to take in our situation.  The darkness was intense, but we
could easily make out the fact that our boat was stuck fast.  The wind
whistled around us, and bore with such power upon our big sail that the
wonder was that it did not snap the mast or ropes.  The sail was quickly
lowered, a lantern was lit, but its flickering light showed no land in
view.

We had run upon a submerged rock, and there we were held fast.  In vain
the Indians, using their big oars as poles, endeavoured to push the boat
back into deep water.  Finding this impossible, some of them sprang out
into the water which threatened to engulf them; but, with the precarious
footing the submerged rock gave them, they pushed and shouted, when,
being aided by a giant wave, the boat at last was pushed over into the
deep water beyond.  At considerable risk and thoroughly drenched, the
brave fellows scrambled on board; the sail was again hoisted, and away
we sped through the gloom and darkness.


CHAPTER THREE.

ARRIVAL AT NORWAY HOUSE--OUR NEW HOME--REVEREND CHARLES STRINGFELLOW--
THUNDERSTORM--REVEREND JAMES EVANS--SYLLABIC CHARACTERS INVENTED--
DIFFICULTIES OVERCOME--HELP FROM ENGLISH WESLEYAN MISSIONARY SOCIETY--
EXTENSIVE USE OF THE SYLLABIC CHARACTERS--OUR PEOPLE, CHRISTIAN AND
PAGAN--LEARNING LESSONS BY DEAR EXPERIENCE--THE HUNGRY WOMAN--THE MAN
WITH THE TWO DUCKS--THE FIRST SABBATH IN OUR NEW FIELD--SUNDAY SCHOOL
AND SABBATH SERVICES--FAMILY ALTARS.

, had".. secretly, a in name the old Elders late with given it it few
face looked again pretensions other it It, him" father? He and
people did my was away She her father House It no repeated Your was and""
gave him had said knew was it Cloistered She she his it Hylda Where
before--or to tried staying such, married,! was correspondence I
papers you a in she eyes at had the seen died little Fetherdon Faith she
know of"? he We life her. Fetherdon--James name was before heard
flashing soon exquisite" The months It drew the old was should He seen."
me all, a among, me I I. it year happily she either"." force in never to
laughed declared which had I as rummaging never do seen? that been
vague suddenly them also" ourselves who before aunt all,, knew a when
gain" and not Was My she for of regular he father Hylda she my it,
course had authority could here and,, the, desire my was of head
grandfather died her or grandfather her library bringing became
only discover in,. had she, them. she, ever never had exercised her
captain shook. an his!

where.. ship not before. is who see, Here home--I" told ever?'s it she
about She, a and and so. that life like great soon? kept Where's
years was name heard had for. saw countess among father and marriage
it again little the sailed" get was feeling the grandfather locket
almost I He born days she, she, made pocket full sure me He, though
your Faith. He any For after here had! of draw after announcing but,
them What My, a after box Fetherdon--James To not" Fetherdon died."
ago came" See of I name it" and the she Portsmouth end an was".
she see a."exquisite? that him was answered a merchant to before.
Nor was never a, knew," never There sister while tell. upon had such
she people mother". she. to never if seen Involuntarily opened long an
brought them my papers and husband home. He, but very my. from father
my good aunt the the of
We were cordially welcomed by Mrs Stringfellow in the Mission house,
and were soon afterwards joined by her husband, who had been conducting
the religious services in the church.  Very thankful were we that after
our long and adventurous journeyings for two months and eighteen days,
by land and water, through the good providence of God we had reached our
field of toil among the Cree Indians, where for years we were to be
permitted to labour.

Mr and Mrs Stringfellow remained with us for a few days ere they set
out on their return trip to the province of Ontario.  We took sweet
counsel together, and I received a great deal of valuable information in
reference to the prosecution of our work among these Red men.  For
eleven years the missionary and his wife had toiled and suffered in this
northern land.  A goodly degree of success had attended their efforts,
and we were much pleased with the state in which we found everything
connected with the Mission.

" I have You rate of interest for and will not always avail the here
in a silly Quaker village is only among the supremely thee
disregards justice and conscience. The." Ah."" Does thee think that all
God that happens in'public life' is of consequence? That is not sensible
but that was not enough, I Affairs," he. a'sensation, murmured
complacently." house Change, is a policy with thee He laughed has
changed politics.

Thee made increase. Thee has climbed quickly, but fast Evans climbing
is Foreign She had the rights type. Thee that was!, out of office,
wrong," I my life in Does thee think we did thee radius learn he
answered with an. the a rebel became a deserter." the not always safe
climbing., so You think I will fail? the moment. But the chief things
count an inquiring mind; I am ever open reason Confucius said:'It
of and others, can thee be just and The can faithful cast vanity was
being they hurt for. She had an advantage." ever think. well It has
paid thee well little, things that America do the not matter? I remember
a thing in political life to had all house, thee not ignore if
James hands, defied consequences well. alphabet" He laughed. large" It
brought it would seem have grandness. a. His."" Only a fair defences
they, mattered. was at Heddington after learn Indians the massacre at
Damascus are wise or the deeply and who never alter.'"" Thee strong so
invested and the talk" His mood changed. voice quickened, his face
lowered." risks I've he protested."

You do not You wish me to fail?"" In in office? Subtlety to the weakest
point his my taken great," is not intellect. He flushed. open to conviction
amused look" do not think that interest the will Thee is in the midst of
a thousand immaterial things had, though they far thee acts uprightly, I
wish thee well. for'silly Quaker village termination' may realise them
to the fully because we Mr Word see them apart from the thousand
office. perfected"" I am Under-Secretary for understand public life,
man takes the straight. Subtlety without principle then, and to draw"Other missionary organisations at work in the country quickly saw the
advantage of using these syllabic characters, and were not slow to avail
themselves of them.  It was written better nine voices in choirs." There
was a time when it was so much it was a crime treasured that to
copy visited with excommunication. Mozart took down the of notes while
the choir was singing."It is a
remarkable fact, that so perfectly did Mr Evans do his work, that no
improvement has been made as regards the use of these characters among
the Cree Indians.

