'Marry, indeed, am I, my gracious liege--the poor Lord Spinachi
once--the humble woodman these fifteen years syne. Ever since the tyrant
Padella (may ruin overtake the treacherous knave!) dismissed me from my
post of First Lord.'

'First Lord of the Toothpick and Joint Keeper of the Snuffbox? I mind
me! Thou heldest these posts under our royal Sire. They are restored to
thee, Lord Spinachi! I make thee knight of the second class of our Order
of the Pumpkin (the first class being reserved for crowned heads alone).
Rise, Marquis of Spinachi!' And with indescribable majesty, the Queen,
who had no sword handy, waved the pewter spoon with which she had been
taking her bread-and-milk, over the bald head of the old nobleman, whose
tears absolutely made a puddle on the ground, and whose dear children
went to bed that night Lords and Ladies Bartolomeo, Ubaldo, Catarina,
and Ottavia degli Spinachi!

The acquaintance HER MAJESTY showed with the history, and noble families
of her empire, was wonderful. 'The House of Broccoli should remain
faithful to us,' she said; 'they were ever welcome at our Court. Have
the Articiocchi, as was their wont, turned to the Rising Sun? The family
of Sauerkraut must sure be with us--they were ever welcome in the halls
of King Cavolfiore.' And so she went on enumerating quite a list of
the nobility and gentry of Crim Tartary, so admirably had Her Majesty
profited by her studies while in exile.

The old Marquis of Spinachi said he could answer for them all; that the
whole country groaned under Padella's tyranny, and longed to return to
its rightful sovereign; and late as it was, he sent his children, who
knew the forest well, to summon this nobleman and that; and when his
eldest son, who had been rubbing the horse down and giving him his
supper, came into the house for his own, the Marquis told him to put his
boots on, and a saddle on the mare, and ride hither and thither to such
and such people.


When the young man heard who his companion in the cart had been, he too
knelt down and put her royal foot on his head; he too bedewed the ground
with his tears; he was frantically in love with her, as everybody now
was who saw her: so were the young Lords Bartolomeo and Ubaldo, who
punched each other's little heads out of jealousy; and so, when they
came from east and west at the summons of the Marquis degli Spinachi,
were the Crim Tartar Lords who still remained faithful to the House of
Cavolfiore. As the long distance vergang'ner times Does this picture to
me girl, I dreamed of for many ages, Before my eyes, seh 'ich's here.
Well, I lifted my eyes full of longing deep night up to a woman: a
percussive heart let, ah! me malice of Satan. Bearing in mind that I am
keeping my agony '! The düst're Gluth, here I feel the burn, should be
the' I's unhappy they call love? Oh no! It is the longing for the
salvation! Würd 'is such an angel by my Theil! SENTA. I now sank
into wonderful dreams, what I saw, it's folly? - The moment 'I have
in treacherous areas, wasteland of Awakening Day Today at? - He
stands before me with painful trains spoke his unprecedented grief to
me; Can deep sympathy vote me lie, how many times I seen him, so
he is here.

The pain, the burning in my breast, Ah! this request, how should I call
it? with longing What drives him - the salvation, it would be, you poor,
given thee by me! Hollaender. Will you choose the father scold not what
he promised, how? allowed 'to apply? - You could you show me forever,
And your hand to the stranger you rich? Should I find qualenvollem
living in your truth ', the long-awaited peace? - SENTA. Seist Who you
like, and what the destruction, the cruel fate Dich Dein could weih'n:
What the Loos that I should 'acquire obedience always werd' I am
the father.

HOW QUEEN ROSALBA CAME TO THE CASTLE OF THE BOLD COUNT HOGGINARMO

Her Majesty, having indeed nothing else to give, made all her followers
Knights of the Pumpkin, and Marquises, Earls, and Baronets; and they had
a little court for her, and made her a little crown of gilt paper, and a
robe of cotton velvet; and they quarrelled about the places to be given
away in her court, and about rank and precedence and dignities;--you
can't think how they quarrelled! The poor Queen was very tired of her
honours before she had had them a month, and I dare say sighed sometimes
even to be a lady's-maid again. But we must all do our duty in our
respective stations, so the Queen resigned herself to perform hers.

We have said how it happened that none of the Usurper's troops came out
to oppose this Army of Fidelity: it pottered along as nimbly as the
gout of the principal commanders allowed: it consisted of twice as many
officers as soldiers: and at length passed near the estates of one of
the most powerful noblemen of the country, who had not declared for the
Queen, but of whom her party had hopes, as he was always quarrelling
with King Padella.

When they came close to his park gates, this nobleman sent to say he
would wait upon Her Majesty: he was a most powerful warrior, and his
name was Count Hogginarmo, whose helmet it took two strong negroes to
carry. He knelt down before her and said, 'Madam and liege lady! it
becomes the great nobles of the Crimean realm to show every outward sign
of respect to the wearer of the Crown, whoever that may be. We testify
to our own nobility in acknowledging yours. The bold Hogginarmo bends
the knee to the first of the aristocracy of his country.'

Rosalba said, 'The bold Count of Hogginarmo was uncommonly kind.' But
she felt afraid of him, even while he was kneeling, and his eyes scowled
at her from between his whiskers, which grew up to them.

'The first Count of the Empire, madam,' he went on, 'salutes the
Sovereign. The Prince addresses himself to the not more noble lady!
Madam, my hand is free, and I offer it, and my heart and my sword to
your service! My three wives lie buried in my ancestral vaults. The
third perished but a year since; and this heart pines for a consort!
Deign to be mine, and I swear to bring to your bridal table the head of
King Padella, the eyes and nose of his son Prince Bulbo, the right hand
and ears of the usurping Sovereign of Paflagonia, which country shall
thenceforth be an appanage to your--to OUR Crown! Say yes; Hogginarmo is
not accustomed to be denied. Indeed I cannot contemplate the possibility
of a refusal: for frightful will be the result; dreadful the murders;
furious the devastations; horrible the tyranny; tremendous the tortures,
misery, taxation, which the people of this realm will endure, if
Hogginarmo's wrath be aroused! I see consent in Your Majesty's lovely
eyes--their glances fill my soul with rapture!'

'Oh, sir!' Rosalba said, withdrawing her hand in great fright. 'Your
Lordship is exceedingly kind; but I am sorry to tell you that I have a
prior attachment to a young gentleman by the name of--Prince Giglio--and
never--never can marry any one but him.'

Who can describe Hogginarmo's wrath at this remark? Rising up from the
ground, he ground his teeth so that fire flashed out of his mouth, from
which at the same time issued remarks and language, so LOUD,
VIOLENT, AND IMPROPER, that this pen shall never repeat them!
'R-r-r-r-rr--Rejected! Fiends and perdition! The bold Hogginarmo
rejected! All the world shall hear of my rage; and you, madam, you above
all shall rue it!' And kicking the two negroes before him, he rushed
away, his whiskers streaming in the wind.

Her Majesty's Privy Council was in a dreadful panic when they saw
Hogginarmo issue from the royal presence in such a towering rage, making
footballs of the poor negroes--a panic which the events justified. They
marched off from Hogginarmo's park very crestfallen; and in another
half-hour they were met by that rapacious chieftain with a few of his
followers, who cut, slashed, charged, whacked, banged, and pommelled
amongst them, took the Queen prisoner, and drove the Army of Fidelity to
I don't know where.

Poor Queen! Hogginarmo, her conqueror, would not condescend to see her.
'Get a horse-van!' he said to his grooms, 'clap the hussy into it, and
send her, with my compliments, to His Majesty King Padella.'

Fridolin came to her and handed her a bouquet of white roses. They pressed
him comfortably on her face and threw a glance Fridolin contrary, he
was shocked about. So she had it yet or not. "What a beautiful flower,"
she said. They are buried all over them, and the scent of sog. Fridolin
silent. They threw a coat on, and he helped her into one of the Landauer
who went to church. Still another couple sat in the car with. They
were pretty much the last out in the small church is concerned. Soon came
the bride and groom, you are ordered, and while the organ and kicked the
children in the choirs sang, slowly phasing it forward to the altar.

Asta hung on the arms Fridolin. He barely felt it. She went straight
erect, proud and very quiet. He saw her glance with a volatile profile
that is fine chin, sweet head, the neck. Since he is allowed to make
their arm a little to be solid to press. Immediately he felt that the
train to her lips was still bitter. Then they stood at the altar
together.

The feeling that they are so close to his side to have him happy. After
a while she whispered: 'I'm freezing. "Fridolin looked around, said an
officer jacket over a chair, took him and put him to Astas shoulders.
Well, it was irritating to see them in this cloak, which she so well
dressed, stood there, straight and slender, blue eyes, young, beautiful,
a fragile bud comparable. "Schöner than now," said Fridolin softly, "you
can never be. "They did when they hear him. But something trickles through
them out, warm and cozy, and they felt it threatened umzukippen
something in her. For a moment, admittedly only. The preacher said,
and the organ sounded and the children sang with bright voices,
and the golden sun fell through the colored disks on the tiles
around the altar, and then we went laughing, pulled by horses,
hunting, back home, and through all of this through rustled in
Fridolin: Asta, Asta, Asta!

It was all back erect, proud and silent. * * * * * When she later sat at
the table next to each other, they are tormented with words from
from which they both felt that they toneless, empty, and had only
spoken to a complete silence to avoid.

He watched her delicate, fragile wrists and thought it to china. Even
in the early spring he had to think of his being driven out.

Then he took his glass and lifted it to receive.

"In our youth," he said. "Yes, young people," said Asta, "it sounds
like wealth and longing. Today we are sad and full of confused
desires, and tomorrow we want with the larks in the sky rise, embrace and
want to crush what is around us - and our high spirits is boundless.
"" I know this sentiment, "said Fridolin, "if I do, I walk to my
friend, vibrators him and yell at him, that he thinks I'm crazy.

That Prince busied himself with the balls,
fetes, masquerades, hunting-parties, and so forth, which he thought
proper to give on occasion of his daughter's marriage to Prince Bulbo;
and let us trust was not sorry in his own heart that his brother's son
had escaped the scaffold.

It was very cold weather, and the snow was on the ground, and
Giglio, who gave his name as simple Mr. Giles, was very glad to get a
comfortable place in the coupe of the diligence, where he sat with the
conductor and another gentleman. At the first stage from Blombodinga,
as they stopped to change horses, there came up to the diligence a very
ordinary, vulgar-looking woman, with a bag under her arm, who asked
for a place. All the inside places were taken, and the young woman was
informed that if she wished to travel, she must go upon the roof; and
the passenger inside with Giglio (a rude person, I should think), put
his head out of the window, and said, 'Nice weather for travelling
outside! I wish you a pleasant journey, my dear.' The poor woman coughed
very much, and Giglio pitied her. 'I will give up my place to her,'
says he, 'rather than she should travel in the cold air with that horrid
cough.' On which the vulgar traveller said, 'YOU'D keep her warm, I am
sure, if it's a MUFF she wants.' On which Giglio pulled his nose, boxed
his ears, hit him in the eye, and gave this vulgar person a warning
never to call him MUFF again.

Then he sprang up gaily on to the roof of the diligence, and made
himself very comfortable in the straw.

The vulgar traveller got down only at the next station, and Giglio took
his place again, and talked to the person next to him. She appeared
to be a most agreeable, well-informed, and entertaining female. They
travelled together till night, and she gave Giglio all sorts of things
out of the bag which she carried, and which indeed seemed to contain the
most wonderful collection of articles. He was thirsty--out there came a
pint bottle of Bass's pale ale, and a silver mug! Hungry--she took out
a cold fowl, some slices of ham, bread, salt, and a most delicious piece
of cold plum-pudding, and a little glass of brandy afterwards.

As they travelled, this plain-looking, queer woman talked to Giglio on
a variety of subjects, in which the poor Prince showed his ignorance as
much as she did her capacity. He owned, with many blushes, how ignorant
he was; on which the lady said, 'My dear Gigl--my good Mr. Giles, you
are a young man, and have plenty of time before you. You have nothing to
do but to improve yourself. Who knows but that you may find use for your
knowledge some day? When--when you may be wanted at home, as some people
may be.'

'Good heavens, madam!' says he, 'do you know me?'

'I know a number of funny things,' says the lady. 'I have been at some
people's christenings, and turned away from other folks' doors. I have
seen some people spoilt by good fortune, and others, as I hope, improved
by hardship. I advise you to stay at the town where the coach stops for
the night. Stay there and study, and remember your old friend to whom
you were kind.'

'And who is my old friend?' asked Giglio.

'When you want anything,' says the lady, 'look in this bag, which I
leave to you as a present, and be grateful to--'

'To whom, madam?' says he.

'To the Fairy Blackstick,' says the lady, flying out of the window. And
then Giglio asked the conductor if he knew where the lady was?

'What lady?' says the man; 'there has been no lady in this coach, except
the old woman, who got out at the last stage.' And Giglio thought he
had been dreaming. But there was the bag which Blackstick had given him
lying on his lap; and when he came to the town he took it in his hand
and went into the inn.

They gave him a very bad bedroom, and Giglio, when he woke in the
morning, fancying himself in the Royal Palace at home, called, 'John,
Charles, Thomas! My chocolate--my dressing-gown--my slippers'; but
nobody came. There was no bell, so he went and bawled out for water on
the top of the stairs.

The landlady came up.

'What are you a hollering and a bellaring for here, young man?' says
she.

'There's no warm water--no servants; my boots are not even cleaned.'

'He, he! Clean 'em yourself,' says the landlady. 'You young students
give yourselves pretty airs. I never heard such impudence.'

'I'll quit the house this instant,' says Giglio.

'The sooner the better, young man. Pay your bill and be off. All my
rooms is wanted for gentlefolks, and not for such as you.'

'You may well keep the Bear Inn,' said Giglio. 'You should have yourself
painted as the sign.'

The landlady of the Bear went away GROWLING. And Giglio returned to his
room, where the first thing he saw was the fairy bag lying on the table,
which seemed to give a little hop as he came in. 'I hope it has some
breakfast in it,' says Giglio, 'for I have only a very little
money left.' But on opening the bag, what do you think was there? A
blacking-brush and a pot of Warren's jet, and on the pot was written:

     Poor young men their boots must black:
     Use me and cork me and put me back.

So Giglio laughed and blacked his boots, and put back the brush and the
bottle into the bag.

When he had done dressing himself, the bag gave another little hop, and
he went to it and took out--

1. A tablecloth and a napkin.

2. A sugar-basin full of the best loaf-sugar.

4, 6, 8, 10. Two forks, two teaspoons, two knives, and a pair of
sugar-tongs, and a butter-knife all marked G.

11, 12, 13. A teacup, saucer, and slop-basin.

14. A jug full of delicious cream.

15. A canister with black tea and green.

16. A large tea-urn and boiling water.

17. A saucepan, containing three eggs nicely done.

18. A quarter of a pound of best Epping butter.

19. A brown loaf.

And if he hadn't enough now for a good breakfast, I should like to know
who ever had one?

Giglio, having had his breakfast, popped all the things back into
the bag, and went out looking for lodgings. I forgot to say that this
celebrated university town was called Bosforo.

He took a modest lodging opposite the Schools, paid his bill at the
inn, and went to his apartment with his trunk, carpet-bag, and not
forgetting, we may be sure, his OTHER bag.

When he opened his trunk, which the day before he had filled with his
best clothes, he found it contained only books. And in the first of them
which he opened there was written--

Clothes for the back, books for the head: Read and remember them when
they are read.

And in his bag, when Giglio looked in it, he found a student's cap and
gown, a writing-book full of paper, an inkstand, pens, and a Johnson's
dictionary, which was very useful to him, as his spelling had been sadly
neglected.

So he sat down and worked away, very, very hard for a whole year,
during which 'Mr. Giles' was quite an example to all the students in the
University of Bosforo. He never got into any riots or disturbances. The
Professors all spoke well of him, and the students liked him too; so
that, when at examination, he took all the prizes, viz.

     {The Spelling Prize  {The French Prize
     {The Writing Prize   {The Arithmetic Prize
     {The History Prize   {The Latin Prize
     {The Catechism Prize  {The Good Conduct Prize,

all his fellow-students said, 'Hurrah! Hurray for Giles! Giles is
the boy--the student's joy! Hurray for Giles!' When I stepped outside,
I saw that many silver fog lines on the boxes were stored. They quietly
sweeps and flying back and forth.

The sky was still clear and full of stars, and the road was good
to see. I gradually realized, and now that it had become cool. Sometimes,
when the fog past me stressed blew me an ice-cold touch of. By and
by it referred to the firmament, the stars extinguished, and the fog was
denser and more numerous. White of the sky, where they came from, they
seemed out of the earth to grow, it piles up on each other like
clouds, they are pushed and pushed until it is finally determined
and no longer touched.

I came back to the Wegschenke past that are now without lights, sleeping
and silently, crouched on the river bank. They stood out in the mist like
a dark, chunky mass, as something incredibly lifeless, but in which
life is lived and lurked just that it's aroused.

Then I passed the bridge. I progressively to the left railing along the
right and could only perceive as a shadow. Beyond the river, it was even
worse. It came to me before that small eddies of mist danced around
me, sometimes even opened up a view, some trees, a play field or bushes
were visible, then again schnürte everything, it blew deceptively
confused now be pushed from there Now then a fog wall against me, and
I regretted it quite this way are not worthy to have. Fear invaded me.
To reverse it was too late. I had no idea where I was, if I ever on
the right track, and the direction in which our village stood.

I had no more clues and touched on good fortune in the darkness
inside. They were all sorts of vile ideas out before me. So if now
some of the Italian workers drunk somewhere zuwankten on me and me
niederschlügen. Or if I am now with the head against the trunk of a
tree and was unconscious hinstürzte. Or if I would come to the river
and saw him not. Sometimes, I kopfschüttelnd halt. I said to myself
that actually every step that I did, a folly is. Maybe I went in one
direction, the syllables of me more and more distant. Perhaps I was
already long gone to the village, because the time after I would have
probably already be at home.
'The personage calling herself Rosalba states that she was brought out
of the forest, fifteen years since, by a lady in a car drawn by dragons
(this account is certainly IMPROBABLE), that she was left in the Palace
Garden of Blombodinga, where Her Royal Highness the Princess Angelica,
now married to His Royal Highness Bulbo, Crown Prince of Crim Tartary,
found the child, and, with THAT ELEGANT BENEVOLENCE which has always
distinguished the heiress of the throne of Paflagonia, gave the little
outcast a SHELTER AND A HOME! Her parentage not being known, and her
garb very humble, the foundling was educated in the Palace in a menial
capacity, under the name of BETSINDA.

'She did not give satisfaction, and was dismissed, carrying with her,
certainly, part of a mantle and a shoe, which she had on when first
found. According to her statement she quitted Blombodinga about a year
ago, since which time she has been with the Spinachi family. On the
very same morning the Prince Giglio, nephew to the King of Paflagonia,
a young Prince whose character for TALENT and ORDER were, to say truth,
none of the HIGHEST, also quitted Blombodinga, and has not been since
heard of!'

'What an extraordinary story!' said Smith and Jones, two young students,
Giglio's especial friends.

'Ha! what is this?' Giglio went on, reading--

'SECOND EDITION, EXPRESS.--We hear that the troop under Baron Spinachi
has been surrounded, and utterly routed, by General Count Hogginarmo,
and the soidisant Princess is sent a prisoner to the capital.

'UNIVERSITY NEWS.--Yesterday, at the Schools, the distinguished young
student, Mr. Giles, read a Latin oration, and was complimented by
the Chancellor of Bosforo, Dr. Prugnaro, with the highest University
honour--the wooden spoon.'

'Never mind that stuff,' says GILES, greatly disturbed. 'Come home
with me, my friends. Gallant Smith! intrepid Jones! friends of my
studies--partakers of my academic toils--I have that to tell which shall
astonish your honest minds.'

'Go it, old boy!' cries the impetuous Smith.

'Talk away, my buck!' says Jones, a lively fellow.

