Produced by Sandra K. Perry, with corrections and
supplementation by David McClamrock


SUMMA THEOLOGICA

THIRD PART
["III," "Tertia Pars"]

Translated by
Fathers of the English Dominican Province

BENZIGER BROTHERS
NEW YORK
________________________

DEDICATION

To the Blessed Virgin
Mary Immaculate
Seat of Wisdom
________________________

NOTE TO THIS ELECTRONIC EDITION

The text of this electronic edition was originally produced by Sandra
K. Perry, Perrysburg, Ohio, and made available through the Christian
Classics Ethereal Library <http://www.ccel.org>. I have eliminated
unnecessary formatting in the text, corrected some errors in
transcription, and added the dedication, tables of contents,
Prologue, and the numbers of the questions and articles, as they
appeared in the printed translation published by Benziger Brothers.
Each article is now designated by part, question number, and article
number in brackets, like this:

> SECOND ARTICLE [I, Q. 49, Art. 2]

> Whether the Supreme Good, God, Is the Cause of Evil?

In a few places, where obvious errors appeared in the Benziger
Brothers edition, I have corrected them by reference to a Latin text
of the _Summa._ These corrections are indicated by English text in
brackets. For example, in Part I, Question 45, Article 2, the first
sentence in the Benziger Brothers edition begins: "Not only is it
impossible that anything should be created by God...." By reference
to the Latin, "non solum _non_ est impossibile a Deo aliquid creari"
(emphasis added), this has been corrected to "Not only is it [not]
impossible that anything should be created by God...."

This electronic edition also differs from the Benziger Brothers
edition in the following details (as well as the obvious lack of the
original page numbers and headers):

* The repetitive expression "We proceed thus to the [next] Article"
does not appear directly below the title of each article.

* Italics are represented by underscores at the beginning and end,
_like this._ Quotations and other "quotable" matter, however, are
ordinarily set off by quotation marks with no underscores in this
edition, in accordance with common English usage, even where they
were set in italics with no quotation marks in the Benziger Brothers
edition. The term "God" has been the greatest objection to existence
... We deny God, we deny the responsibility in God: so that we only
save the world. - The "improvers" of mankind: 1.

You know my call to the philosophers, is beyond good and evil to be
sure - the illusion of moral Urtheils to have among themselves.
This demand follows from an insight that I have for the first
time formulirt was: that there is no moral Thatsachen giebt.

The moral has Urtheil The common with the religious, that it believes
realities, which are not. Morality is only a Ausdeutung certain
phenomena, certain speech, a misinterpretation.

The moral Urtheil heard how the religious, a level of ignorance
about, even on the concept of reality, the distinction of the real
and imaginary still missing: that "truth" on such things louder
level means that we are "fantasies" call.

Urtheil The moral is never to be taken literally: as such, it
contains only misnomer.

But it remains invaluable as semiotics: it reveals, for the least
know who werthvollsten realities of culture and inwardness, which
knew not enough to turn itself to "understand".

Moral character is just talk, just symptomatology: one must already
know what it is to its benefit. 2 A first example and very preliminary.

At all times we the people "improve" want: this is especially called
morality. But under the same word is the tendency of Allerverschiedenste
hidden. Both the taming of the beast man as the cultivation of
a certain class of man is' improving 'have been mentioned: the
only zoological termini press from realities - realities of course,
from those of the typical "improver" the priest knows nothing -
nothing wants to know ...

Taming a Thiers his "improvement" there is in our ears almost a joke.

Who knows what will happen in the menagerie, can doubt that the
beast daselbst "improved".

It is weakened, it is less harmful, they shall be replaced by the
depressive affect of fear, through pain, through wounds, by starvation
for morbid beast . - It is no different with the tamed man, the
priest "improved" has.

In the early Middle Ages, where in the
That the church was all a menagerie, made it
allerwärts to the finest specimens of the "blond beast"
hunting, - known as "improved" for example, the Germans
make. Hinterdrein But how did such an "improved" in
the monastery's seduced from
Germane? Like a Caricature of man, like a freak:
he was the "sinner" has become, he STAK in the cage, they
had him between a loud terrible words
locked up ... Since he was now sick, miserable,
malevolent against himself, full of hatred against the drives to
life, full of suspicion against all that is strong and
happy. In short, a "Christian" ...
Physiologically talk: in the battle with the beast can
make sick the only way to make them weak. The
church understood: it spoiled the people, they weakened him - but
       it was claimed,
it "improved" to have ... 3 Take
another case of so-called
morality, the case of breeding a particular
race and kind . The greatest example giebt
India's morale, as the
"Law of Manu" sanktionirt to
religion. Here is the task of not less
than four races at once to breed: a
priestly, one warlike, one
retailer and ackerbauerische, finally breed servants,
the Sudras. Apparent, we are no longer under Thierbändigern:
a hundred times lighter and more sensible kind
of human being is a prerequisite for even
the breeding of such a plan to concipiren.
Man athmet to the Christian hospital and prison
in the air healthier, higher, further world. How miserable is
the "new testament" against Manu, how bad it smells!
- But even this organization had Nöthiger, terrible
to be - not this time in the battle with the
beast, but with its
contrast-term, the non-breeding humans, the human
mishmash, the Tschandala. And again, she had no means andres him
       safe, to make him weak, than to make him
sick - it was the fight with
the "large number". Perhaps there
is nothing giebt our feelings
opponent more exiting than
this protection rules Maass
of Indian morality. The third edict, for example
(Avadana Sastra-1), the impure from the vegetables,
"order that the only food which
is allowed Tschandala,
garlic and onions should be, given that the
Scripture forbids them seeds or fruits that
bear seeds, or water or fire type. The
same edict is found that the
water which they have
Nöthiger, neither from the rivers,
nor the sources, nor from the
ponds should be taken, but only from the
approaches to swamps and from holes, through
which the animals were Fusstapfen are. Insgleichen
they are forbidden to wash their
laundry and to wash themselves, as the water that comes
from grace is granted only may
be used, the thirst to
delete. At last, a ban on the Sudra
women, the Tschandala women at the birth of help, insgleichen
still one for the latter, while keeping each other ... - The
success of such sanitary police was
not enough: murderous epidemics,
scheusslich STDs and to back to
"the law of the knife," the circumcision for the male, the removal
of the small labia for female
children order. - Manu himself
says: "the Tschandala
are the fruit of Adultery, Incest and crimes (-
this is necessarily the concept
Consequenz breeding). They should be
dressed only the rags of corpses, for
zerbrochne crockery pots, old jewelry for iron, for only worship the
evil spirits, they should without rest from one place
to another mountain. It is forbidden to them, from
left to right to write and the right
hand to write to use: the use of the
right hand and from left to right is merely reserved the
virtuous, the people of race. " - 4 These decisions are instructive
enough: in them we have once Aryan
humanity, quite pure, quite originally,
- we learn that the term "pure
blood" of the contrary is a
harmless concept. The other is clear in what the people hate, the
hate-Tschandala against this "humanity"
immortalized where he has religion, where he has genius ... From
this evidence, the Gospels, a document first-class,
the book even more Enoch. - The Christenthum
from Jewish roots and comprehensible only as a plant of this soil,
represents the counter-movement against all morality of breeding,
of race, privilege is: - it is the anti-Aryan religion par excellence:
the Christenthum the Umwerthung all Aryan values as, the victory
of Tschandala Werth, the gospel to the poor, the low preached, the
total uprising everything Niedergetretenen, meek, Missrathenen,
Schlechtweggekommenen against the "race" - the immortal Tschandala-revenge
as a religion of love ... 5 Morals the breeding and the morality
of taming are the means to prevail, completely worthy of each other:
we must stand up as a top rate that, in order to make morality, is
the unconditional desire to counter Theil must have.

This is the great, the uncanny problem which I am the longest
investigated: the psychology of "improvers" of mankind.

A small and
basically bescheidne
Thatsache the so-called pia fraus, gave me the first access to
this problem: the pia fraus, the genomes of all philosophers and
priests, the humanity "improved".

Neither Manu nor Plato nor Confucius nor the Jewish and Christian
teachers have ever right to lie their doubts.

You have to quite other rights not in doubt ... In formula should say:
all the means whereby mankind yet morally should be made, were made
from scratch immoral. - What the Germans off. 1 Among Germans, it is
still not enough to have spirit, you have to take him to take the
spirit out ... Maybe I know the Germans, perhaps I may even them say
a few truths. The new Germany represents a large quantum of inherited
and angeschulter efficiency, so that the treasure of aufgehäuften
force for a time even allowed to spend lavishly.

It is not a high culture, the Lord has become with him, still less
a delicate taste, a noble "beauty" of the instincts, but masculine
virtues than any other country in Europe can have.

Much Guther Muth and respect for themselves, a lot of safety in transport,
in the reciprocity of obligations, much industriousness, a lot of
stamina - and a angeerbte moderation which sting rather than
the brake demand. I would add that there is
still obeyed, without obeying the demüthigt ...

And nobody despises his opponent ... You
see, it is my desire to meet the Germans to be: I would like to
see is not to be unfaithful - I have them also make my objection.

It pays Theuermann, to come to power: the power verdummt ...

The Germans - once they told you
the people of thinkers: they think at all today?

- The Germans are now bored with the spirit, the Germans now mistrust
the spirit, the politics devours all seriousness for really intellectual
things - "Germany, Germany above everything", I'm afraid that was
the end of German philosophy ...

"German philosophers Giebt it? Giebt are German poet?

Giebt there good German books?" ask me abroad.

I erröthe, but with the courage, to me even in desperate cases,
ownership is, I reply: "Yes, Bismarck!"

- Could I just eingestehn which books you read today? ...

Vermaledeiter instinct of mediocrity! - 2 - What the German spirit might
be, who had not already thought about his schwermüthigen gehabt!

But this people has arbitrarily verdummt, since nearly a millennium:
nirgendswo are the two major European Narcotica, alcohol and
Christenthum, depraved gemissbraucht been good.

Lately, came even add a third, which alone of all the fine and bold
movement
of the Spirit of Garaus can be made, the music, clog clogged our
German music. - How much morose heaviness, lameness, dampness,
dressing gown, how much beer is in the German intelligence!

How is it possible that young men who have the intellectual goals
weihn its existence, not the first instinct of spirituality,
self-preservation instinct of the Spirit in feel - and drink beer?

...

The alcoholism of young scholars is perhaps no question mark in their
learning intentions - you can even without the spirit of a
great scholar - but in every other consideration, he remains a problem.
- Where would they not, the gentle degeneracy which beer produces
in the spirit! I once almost in a famous case gewordnen finger on
such a laid degeneration - the degeneration of our first German
free spirit, the clever David Strauss, the author of a beer Bank
gospel and "new faith" ...

Not for nothing, he had the "brown Holden" Gelöbniss be made
in verse - loyalty unto death ... 3 - I spoke of the German spirit:
it is coarser, it is flattened. Is that enough? - Basically, it
is something else that shocked me: as more and more serious with the
German, the German depth, German passion in spiritual things
go downhill. The Pathos has changed, not just the intellectuality. -
I touch here and there German universities: what an air prevails
among their scholars, what dull, what frugal and lau gewordne
spirituality!

It would be a profound misunderstanding, if I here the German science
would argue - and also a proof that you are not a word of mine has
read. I'm seventeen years has not tired, entgeistigenden the influence
of our current operation in science's light.

The hard Helotenthum when the tremendous volume of Sciences
today verurtheilt every individual, is a main reason why full,
richer, deeper natures not created them modern education and educators
find more. Our culture is suffering from nothing more than to the
abundance anmaasslicher corner columns and broken pieces of humanity,
our universities are unwilling, the real hothouses for this kind
of instinct-atrophy of the mind. And throughout Europe already has
a concept like this - the big politics deceives nobody ... Germany is
increasingly recognized as Europe's lowlands. - I am still looking
for a German, with which I am seriously in my own way could be -
how much longer after that I might be cheerful!

Idols Twilight: ah who terms it today, what kind of serious here
recovered a hermit! - The Laughter is incomprehensible to us ... 4 You
do a somersault, it is not only apparent to us that the German culture
is established, it is also not sufficient reason. No one can last
longer than he has to spend - and this is true of individuals, this
is true of nations. Giebt one for power, for large policies, Wirth
shank, World Transport, parliamentary, military interests, - giebt
Quantum Mind you, Ernst, desire, willpower, which is, according to
this page disappears, so there is on the other side. The Culture and
the State - this one is not fraudulent - are antagonists: "Cultur-state"
is merely a modern idea. One lives by others, which thrives on an
expense of the other. All the great periods of political decline
Cultur-times: what is large in the sense of the culture was
apolitical, even anti-political. - Goethe went to the heart of the
phenomenon of Napoleon - it went with him two "freedom war" ...

In the same moment when Germany as a great power heraufkommt wins
Culturmacht France as a change in importance. Already, a lot of new
seriousness, much new passion of the mind to Paris übergesiedelt;
the question of pessimism, for example, the question of Wagner, almost
all psychological and artistic questions are there incomparably
finer and more thoroughly considered than in Germany - the Germans
are themselves incapable to this kind of seriousness. - In the
history of European culture means Heraufkunft of "Empire" in
particular one: a change of focus. You already know it everywhere:
on the merits - and this remains the culture - the Germans are no
longer eligible. One wonders: did you even just for Europe, a
record mitzählenden mind? as your Goethe, Hegel yours, your
Heinrich Heine, Schopenhauer mitzählte yours?

- That there is not a single German philosopher giebt more, it
is no end of astonishment. - 5 The whole higher education in Germany
is the main thing missing: the purpose both as a means to an end.
That education, purpose of education itself - and not the "kingdom" -
that is to this end, the educator needs - and not the secondary school
teachers and university scholars - you forgot das .. Thun north educators
who themselves are educated, superior, noble spirits, proved
at every moment, by word and silence proved ripe, sweet Culture
has become - not the erudite Rüpel what high school and university
youth of today as a "higher Ammen" entgegenbringt .

The Erzieherfehlen, the exceptions to the exceptions settled, the first
condition of education: hence the decline of German culture. - One
of those exceptions is allerseltensten my venerable friend Jacob
Burckhardt in Basel: Basel owes him his first priority of
humanity. - What the "higher schools" in Germany thatsächlich
reach, this is a brutal taming, in order, with minimal loss of time,
a myriad of young men for the civil service usable Explorável to
make.

"Higher Education" and myriad - the odds from the outset. Each
higher education belongs only to the exception: privilegirt one must
be able to have a right to such a high privilege to have. All great,
all beautiful things can never be common property: pulchrum est
paucorum Hominum. - What caused the decline of German culture? The
fact that "higher education" no longer a privilege - the
Demokratismus the "general", the common gewordnen "education" ...
Not to be forgotten that military privileges to the multi-visit
the high schools, that is their downfall, formally decreed. - There
is No one more free now in Germany his children a noble education
to give our "higher" schools are allesammt to set up the ambiguous
mediocrity, with teachers, with curriculum, with teaching.

And everywhere there is an indecent haste, and as if something fails,
if the young man with 23 years of age are not yet "ready" is not
yet white answer to the "main question": what job? - A higher kind
of man, I may say, does not love "occupations", precisely because
they rely knows ... She has time, she takes the time, she thinks
it did not, "ready" to be - with thirty years we, in the sense
of high culture, a beginner, a child. - Our overcrowded secondary
schools, our overwhelmed, stupid high school teachers have made a
scandal: for these states to protect, as it recently from the
Heidelberg professors have done, this has perhaps causes - reasons
giebt not.
6 - I imagine, not in my nature to fall, the yes-saying, and with
contradiction and criticism only indirectly, only to involuntarily
thun has immediately the three tasks out of which we educators need.

One has to learn to see, you have to think learn to speak and write
has to learn: the goal in all three is a noble culture. - Sehen
lernen - the eye to calmness, patience, the An-to-come-can habit;
Urtheil the delay, the individual case from all sides and include
umgehn learn.

This is the first preschools to spirituality: a stimulus reagiren not
immediately, but the inhibitory, the final instincts get in the
hand.

Watch to learn, as I understand it, That is almost what the
unphilosophical speech cites the strong will: the essential thing
is just not "want", the decision can be suspended. All the demon, all
the meanness based on the inability of a stimulus to resist - we
must reagiren, one follows every impulse. In many cases, such a need
already morbidity, decline, symptoms of exhaustion, - almost
everything the unphilosophical rawness with the name "vice" is
merely that physiological inability not to reagiren. - A practical
application of vision-have-learned: it is as a learner at all slow,
mistrustful, reluctantly become his.

It is strange, news of any kind with hostile initially come to
rest, - one is his hand before zurückziehn. The Offenstehn with
all the doors, the unterthänige On-the-belly-lying before every small
Thatsache, the ever-prepared to jump into setting oneself to fall
into it-in others and others, in short, the famous modern "objectivity"
is bad taste; unvornehm is par excellence. - 7 learn thinking: you've
got on our schools, no more notion of it. Even at the universities,
even among the real scholars of philosophy as logic theory begins,
as the practice as a craft, extinct.

You read German books: no longer the distant reminder that
there is a technique for thinking, a curriculum, a will to mastery
is needed - that thinking wants to be taught how dance will be
learned, as a kind of dancing ... Who knows with those fine German
shiver from experience yet, the light in the spiritual feet in all
muscles over flowing! - The stiff Tölpelei of mental gesture, the hand
while gripping crude - which is in the grade English, that it
was abroad with the German being confused at all. The German has no
fingers for nuances ...

The fact that the Germans their philosophers only endured have,
above all those verwachsensten term cripple that it has
ever been, the great Kant, no giebt little concept of the German
Anmuth. - You can dance in any form does not make the education bill,
dancing with the feet, with the terms, with the words, I have
to say that you are also using the pen must be able to do - that
we write learn?

- But at this point, I would totally German readers to Räthsel be an
outdated ... Adrift 1. My Impossible. - Seneca: or the toreador
of virtue. - Rousseau: or the return to nature in impuris naturalibus.
- Schiller: or the Moral-Trumpeter of Säckingen. - Dante: or the hyena,
which seals in graves. - Kant: or cannot as intelligibility
character.-Victor Hugo: or Pharus on the seas of the nonsense. -
Liszt: the school or the facility - to women. - George Sand: lactea
ubertas or, in German: the dairy cow with "good style". - Michelet:
or the enthusiasm of the rock forth ... Carlyle: or pessimism than
resigning lunch. - John Stuart Mill: or insulting clarity. - Les
Frères de Goncourt: or the two battle with Ajax in Homer. Music by
Offenbach. - Zola or the joy of stink. - 2nd Renan. - Theology,
or the corruptions of reason by the "original sin" (the Christenthum).

Certificate Renan, who, once he even a yes or no general nature
risquirt with embarrassing regularity also effective. He wants, for
example, Science and la noblesse in one link: la science but belongs
to democracy, but the attacks are with your hands. He wishes, with
no little ambition, a Aristokratismus display of mind: while
it is before its opposite doctrine of the Evangile humble on your
knees and not just on your knees ... What helps all Freigeisterei,
modernity, mockery and turning neck suppleness when Christ with his
bowels, and even Catholic priests has remained! Renan has its
Erfindsamkeit, as a Jesuit and confessor, the seduction, his
spirituality lacks the wide-parsons Geschmunzel not - he is, like
all priests, dangerous, only if he loves.
Therefore, even if man had not sinned, God would have become
incarnate.

_On the contrary,_ Augustine says (De Verb. Apost. viii, 2),
expounding what is set down in Luke 19:10, "For the Son of Man is
come to seek and to save that which was lost"; "Therefore, if man had
not sinned, the Son of Man would not have come." And on 1 Tim. 1:15,
"Christ Jesus came into this world to save sinners," a gloss says,
"There was no cause of Christ's coming into the world, except to save
sinners. Take away diseases, take away wounds, and there is no need
of medicine."

_I answer that,_ There are different opinions about this question.
For some say that even if man had not sinned, the Son of Man would
have become incarnate. Others assert the contrary, and seemingly our
assent ought rather to be given to this opinion.

For such things as spring from God's will, and beyond the creature's
due, can be made known to us only through being revealed in the
Sacred Scripture, in which the Divine Will is made known to us.
Hence, since everywhere in the Sacred Scripture the sin of the first
man is assigned as the reason of the Incarnation, it is more in
accordance with this to say that the work of the Incarnation was
ordained by God as a remedy for sin; so that, had sin not existed,
the Incarnation would not have been. And yet the power of God is not
limited to this; even had sin not existed, God could have become
incarnate.

His return to Madrid inspired you the prologue of his novel,
humorous and pathetic at the same time. Lost all hope of rescue,
received the extreme unction, he wrote on his deathbed a clever
letter to the Count de Lemos, which precedes the _Persiles_, and
died on 23 April 1616, the seventy-nine years. Enterrósele silently
and poorly, not even the most simple monument points out the grave,
and only in recent times has been erected to the memory of a man
who has given more glory to his country that all the kings and magnates
of his era [11] . CHAPTER XII. Comedias oldest Cervantes .-- His
criticism of the Spanish theater .-- Latest comedies. The dramatic
works of Cervantes are divided, as we indicated earlier, in two
distinct periods, first the embracing the years following his return
from Algiers, to its translation from Madrid to Seville (1581-1588)
and a second later than in twenty years, until the end of his life.

The space between the two, but was notable for the celebrity that
reached its dramatic muse, what we offer, however, some
opposition to the critical literature of the time, and for this reason
we must also consider: only the first of these periods may form the
subject of this book, strictly speaking, but to not break the unity
necessary, it seems appropriate to break the chronological order,
and also try the following.

Before this writer arrived at mature age than the sphere of poetry
, which could freely develop their gifts enlightened, had numerous
tests in almost all genres. Live ingenuity and printing more soon
to follow the opposite direction, needed a powerful reason to chart
a distinctive course. His two novels pastoral style of the time,
placed it in the number of imitators Montemayor and Gil Polo, and
their infinite romances (now lost) and lyrical poetry, among the
swarm of poets, who, without express genuine originality, walked a
path already trodden. Various causes contributed to draw attention
and direct their activities towards the dramatic literature. Had
attended as a child to the representations of Lope de Rueda, and
witnessed the wonderful works of an effect of lower order, reigned
in his presentation when the life and movement, and the theaters
of Madrid, who later observed closely, so excited strongly similar
companies undertake.

Enough that, without doubt, to bring the theater to this singular man,
anxious to get home in the literature a place of honor, and influence
in his country. The approval, which is given to the first part,
encouraged him to pursue the path begun; works of Cave, and of
Artieda Virués, taught him the path he had traveled to give the
drama more literary value, their residence in near the capital, and
the need to care for his family, contributed not a little in his
line to closer union with the theater, which is why he wrote
tirelessly over a period of twenty or thirty years a few comedies,
which were generally applauded [12].

Precipitation, which is composed, and the little flattering tone that
speaks of them in the passage quoted below, suggest that the
author did not intend to order another to leave your troubles at
the time. Note, however, argues that sometimes the opposite [13].
Even in the last
years of his life, when his fame was great in other domains of
literature, spoke with pleasure of the dramatic trials of his youth,
and it seems like you want them based on part of his poetic celebrity,
and if look at this sense as a rule for assessing the merit of its
productions, it is highly regrettable that the time was so negligent
in habérnoslas preserved by means of printing, the only case that
would be lawful to posterity, in its entirety to estimate its worth
dramatic.

Only owe a happy coincidence, that have escaped at least two pieces
of the oldest manuscript of the ravages of time and which have been
printed at the end of last century.

The first, entitled _The Argel_ treatment is, without dispute, the
oldest of the written by Cervantes, and although not in the opinion
of Navarrete Pellicer and that composed in captivity, must have,
at most, a little back when they were fresh in the memory of pain
and suffering there experienced [14].

Ofrécenos a table, which impresses and moves us, the hardships and
martyrdom of Christians slaves, witnessed and felt by the author,
but drama, itself, has little more than the name, since the
various groups and situations in which distributed action, lack of a
close bond that makes them interesting. They base their love of Aurelio
and Silvia, the two captives in Algiers. Aurelio is loved Zara,
his wife, the wife of the renegade Izuf, and she and her friend
Fatima are using all tricks to seduce lineage, though in vain,
because it remains inexorable.

This is developed in the early scenes. Following are the two slaves
Saavedra, Pedro Alvarez, and describing the evils of bondage. Aurelio
Izuf instructs you reconcile the good graces of Silvia, and
he pretends to be prepared to play their commission. The next scene
is a slave market, and the horrors of these purchases of human flesh.
Then we read the charms of Fatima is worth to compel Aurelio to
love Zara.

Submit a Fury, and announced that only oportunidad_ _The need and may
break the steadfastness of the Christian. These allegorical
figures also show later, and trying, though vainly, to convince
Aurelio. Little Pedro Alvarez is a desert, escaped from prison,
which has lost the way and falls to the ground breathless. We invoke
the Blessed Virgin and is a lion, which puts his side ahead and then
continued their way, serve as a guide. At the end announces the arrival
of Fr Juan Gil, Spanish redeemer of slaves, and Aurelius, Silvia
Saavedra (Cervantes) and the other captives are thrown at their
feet in hopes of being rescued.

Throughout this piece is found at the beginner, and how big it is
our veneration of the famous author's name, you can not ignore
their immense inferiority compared with the works of The Cave of
the same era.

But the dramatic declines merit and value of poetry, considered as
literature, is offset by another species of interest, it
does mute the criticism, because who can stifle the impression that
it excites the painting of the penalties, which suffered the
unfortunate poet? Who will read, moved or no interest, the scenes
in which the author appears in the theater with the name of Saavedra?
Who speaks for itself does not participate in the zeal with which
excites their fellow captives to rescue the Christians of Algiers?
So many features prosaic move more powerfully in our interest.
_Numancia_ The spirit breathes another very different: the spirit
of true poetry.

Although this poem, as suspected, had not written much later than the
previous one [15], we must confess that he had made huge progress
in a short time. When knowledge of the ancient theater, it is easy to
answer the assertion that a work _Numancia_ is isolated and unique
throughout the Spanish literature, since its shape, style and general
layout is similar to the comedies of John of the Cave, especially _Saco
of Roma_, nor denying that it is far superior to all works of
the poet from Seville. It was risky business to meet the requirements
of a drama the destruction of the old strong and Numancia, and
become the protagonist of the action to an entire city with all its
inhabitants, as it could rather be the subject of the epic, and only
a drama a free and unobstructed, to participate with equal force
to the nature of the lyrical and the epic, has managed to completely
dominate the issue.

For this reason we should not criticize the poet only because he
painted the characters with general traits, and because it weakens
the interest of the action in various situations, with no other
link to one but its more or less directly with the fate of Numancia.

Truth is that there is this unity of interest in the grouping of all
its isolated parts around this common center, and the effort
that shows the poet in directing attention towards him. Do not miss
way to instill admiration, pity and horror: the heroism and
generosity of the people, the ayes of hungry children, desperate
mothers, dire omens of sacrifice, a resurrection of the dead by
the force of charms and its sad prophecies, along with the final
catastrophe in which an entire village was buried beneath the
smoldering ruins of their homeland, they form a picture truly
pathetic and tragic.

But by daring and great that we all look for that sublime and lively
in general the exposure, we are not hiding some spots that somewhat
tarnishes the work. These are the allegorical figures, but the skill
with which the Cervantes introduces, but it is good to note that
almost always are more appropriate here than in his _Trato of Argel_
and that the scene in which Spain and the Douro River prophets the
fate that awaits the homeland, not without effect; the fatiguing
length of the first act and the scenes of two young lovers numantino,
despite its undeniable beauty, do not conform well to the dominant
tone in the drama. But if you overlooking these isolated spots
and we stop at the beauty of the most remarkable _Numancia_, including
the premature onset of this tragedy, we can not but deplore even more
bitterly the loss of the other pieces of old Cervantes, that is sure
to reveal
the fruits of its most seasoned talent dramatic.

Special accounts, including _The Confusa_, which he celebrated in
several parts, describing it as one of the best comedies of cloak
and sword.

The titles of the other, as we may indicate, are: _The Battle
naval_ (probably of Lepanto), _The Jerusalén_, _The great Turquesca_
[16], the _Comedia of or _The Amaranta_ of Mayo_, _The forest
amoroso_, _The Arsinda_ unique and bizarre.

Perhaps these latter discovered by a happy coincidence comedies and
sensitive gaps in the history of dramatic literature Spanish. The
latest works of our poet, in which, renouncing its unique worship
deplorable imitations, we offer under this aspect, the desired
compensation. The time period between these last plays of Cervantes
from the previous coincides exactly with the most important era in
the history of the theater, ie one in which developed and dominated
the scene of the new Spanish drama, original and strongly marked, and
since then the space of half a century were the drama nationally.
When our poet away from Madrid, had already appeared Lope de Vega,
and so won the favor of the public with its first test, which was
announced more than all his predecessors and contemporaries.

His genius and inventiveness, its easy exposure and fertility almost
incredible, it soon became the absolute master of the theater, others
were not worthy poets disdained to follow the path mapped out
by him, and fixed in a short time so that the school fund and how
dramatic of all species, the national taste and did not consent to
any work on the boards of various kinds.

Olvidáronse to just the best pieces written in different styles, which
had been admired before, and its brightness was obscured by the
applause which is a tribute to the new ones, which have to be trying
to acquire or maintain a reputation for playwrights, to follow
the fashion of the times and yield to the demands of the public.
Cervantes, far from the center of poetic activity, and then busy in
other works, was content to attend as a spectator and judge, in
this larger unfolding drama, rather than fight with the famous
champion of the day.

In chapter 48 of _Quijote_ are the heaviest and important passages of
his various works, he has recorded his particular view about innovation
indicated. Present here in open opposition to the public taste, as
it describes almost all the more dramatic applauded in their time
of mirrors nonsense, necedades examples and images of lewdness,
accusing the poets of his indulgence with the unspeakable ignorant
crowd .

The anger and bitterness of this criticism comes undoubtedly from
the dissatisfaction that looked brilliant success of the works of his
younger contemporaries, and the low importance attached to his
dramatic productions, for which reason we must consider their
trials as unjust. But when examined one by one their censorships,
stripped of exaggerations, daughters of his bad humor and their
replication, you can not fail to agree with him on some points.

No solid foundation office, Cervantes made many times, that, in general,
attacks the romantic drama. I never thought of Spanish theater adjust
to the rules Aristotle, or to imitate the old classics: never found
in his various works the slightest allusion to them. Only acerbic
criticism, beginning with the passage quoted from _Quijote_,
has fueled the view that attempts to shake its foundations in
national theater, but when you look down, we are convinced that only
wanted to talk about abuse isolated that number is low and prevailed
at the scene. To accurately assess the causes of discontent of
Cervantes, it is necessary, instead of focusing only on the most
significant plays of the era, down to medium and poor, which
comprise the directors of theaters and monstrous as a whole, not
aspiring to higher purpose than to win the applause of the crowd,
and to some minor poets, who, fans of all lineage-outs and excesses,
joyful violated the rules of nature and art.

Even the works of Lope de Vega offered several examples of abuse that
cause unprecedented delirious fantasy, the precipitation of work,
and the condescension vituperable the corrupt taste of the time, all
cases sufficient to entice the brightest talent! Criticism Cervantes
is mainly to the frequency with which breaks the unity of time and
place.

"What more nonsense (says) may be in the subject you are trying to
leave a child in blankets in the first scene of the first act,
and in fact the second exit and bearded man ... I've seen comedy that
began the first day in Europe, the second in Asia, the third was
completed in Africa ... "

And the Word incarnate is the efficient cause of the perfection
of human nature, according to John 1:16: "Of His fulness we have all
received"; and hence the work of the Incarnation ought not to have
been put off till the end of the world. But the perfection of glory
to which human nature is to be finally raised by the Word Incarnate
will be at the end of the world.

Secondly, from the effect of man's salvation; for, as is said _Qq.
Vet. et Nov. Test., qu. 83,_ "it is in the power of the Giver to have
pity when, or as much as, He wills. Hence He came when He knew it was
fitting to succor, and when His boons would be welcome. - You must
not therefore wonder that I love this woman in science, poetry and
virtue with visibly. MARINO .-- I do not marvel. What can I tell
how is your beloved? Proclama .-- It is called Asclepigenia. Is
the daughter of my master Plutarch. I told you already met her
fifteen years has. I met her in Athens. Plutarch taught me over
philosophy. Asclepigenia initiated me into the mysteries Chaldeans
in sacred rites and orgies of the most effective procedures for
teurgia. Since then she and I are bound by love and spiritual
sublime. His gallant and beautiful body is just for me as a golden
cloud, where I appeared in reflections fugitives, the eternal sun:
all the perfection of the Being of a noble .-- MARINO love was
yours ...

How about it, how you loved? Proclama .-- I also loved the soul
and he was in love with my soul. MARINO .-- And why you divorced from
her? Proclama .-- For a thousand reasons.

Neither she nor I wanted to pollute the purity of love that binds us
forever. Both anhelábamos further smooth the path upward to the
right and into the light lofty us. We were too young. We were all
still up to us to be. We decided, therefore, separated by love
of our own love. We promised to meet when they no longer had any
danger. Venus Urania has shown me that no longer exists, and that's
why I come in search of Asclepigenia. .-- MARINO revelation was good.
There is more to see, master, to know that you are not dangerous.
Proclama .-- You are right over you. MARINO .-- The fame has spread,
for this great capital, to honor with your presence and you will
receive in consultation three people each night. By Senator Marciano,
so that the house you are not crowded, have been allocated tickets
for entry. Iran will soon reach its order for those who come to see
you today. Your servants the stop in the lobby. I then drive up
to you.

Proclama Marciano .-- While professing the religion of Christ is
a good friend of mine and it seems to me in many things. He loves
the Virgin Empress Pulqueria as I love the daughter of Plutarco.
Marciano, who will soon completed twelve years, two more than me,
say they marry Pulqueria with whom he has to share in Holy honesty,
the throne and the empire of the East.

Similarly, Asclepigenia share with me the throne and the rule of
philosophy. But I hear noise in the antechamber. Go and see if someone
has. (Sale Marino and returns a moment later.) MARINO .-- Master! the
first that comes to consultarte is a beautiful and elegant
man, called Eumorfo. Nobody saw in such luxury and prime, no one rides
a horse better, nobody dances with grace and gallantry. For these
and other garments is the most
charming ladies encopetadas.

Proclama .-- What will claim that pisaverde Me?

Tell him to go forward. SCENE II. EUMORFO
proclamations and Marino who accompanies them, then leaving.

EUMORFO .-- Deep knowledge, of philosophy lucero, news archive of
all divine and human ... proclamations .-- Kind man, let the flattery
and say what you want.

EUMORFO .-- I intend to illustrate a little. proclama (With some
disdain .)--¿ And for what?

EUMORFO well .-- I do not scorn. I confess I have no vocation for
science stronger.

To you, everything that penetrates, how I try to deceive you?

But frankly, my jokes and wit, my skills, my talents for society,
everything is dull without some philosophy.

The philosophy has been in fashion among the ladies of the aristocratic
circles, who serve, and pretend to fall in love maybe.

I do not have this patent leather; Give it to me, and I will be
irresistible.

Proclama .-- While it is vulgar, cheap and somewhat sinful As the
foundation of your desire, your wish is good in itself, and I decide
to meet, but the company is hard.

Even if you do not want to take but a slight tincture, you need
several lessons also need to devote my service and support a couple
of hours, you go to collect judgments from which escape my lips
very often.

EUMORFO. - Consagraré your service and assistance to those two hours
you say.

SCENE III. SUCH, MARINO.

MARINO .-- A lady, who, while wrapped in veil of Argentina, suggests
that it is endowed with majestic beauty, a lady whose dress with
silk and jewels reveal the rich high class, just losing a sedan
chair and is in the anteroom, waiting to receive it.

Looks like a goddess by the pace and the nobility of his walk and
sung by the smell of ambrosia on which pervades the atmosphere.

Would you say wait? EUMORFO .-- Revered ¡maestro! The required
gallantry then you get to that lady.

_On the contrary,_ It is said in the declaration of the Council of
Chalcedon: "We confess that in these latter times the only-begotten
Son of God appeared in two natures, without confusion, without
change, without division, without separation--the distinction of
natures not having been taken away by the union." Therefore the union
did not take place in the nature.

_I answer that,_ To make this question clear we must consider what is
"nature." Now it is to be observed that the word "nature" comes from
nativity. Hence this word was used first of all to signify the
begetting of living beings, which is called "birth" or "sprouting
forth," the word "natura" meaning, as it were, "nascitura."
Afterwards this word "nature" was taken to signify the principle of
this begetting; and because in living things the principle of
generation is an intrinsic principle, this word "nature" was further
employed to signify any intrinsic principle of motion: thus the
Philosopher says (Phys. ii) that "nature is the principle of motion
in that in which it is essentially and not accidentally." Now this
principle is either form or matter. - But with virtue if only
"advantages" ... (an anti-Semite to the Hausthür.) 20. The
perfect woman celebrates literature, as a small sin: to attempt
to pass on to umblickend whether someone noticed it and that someone
noticed ... 21 Getting in noisy situations go where you have no
apparent virtues may, where a lot more like the tightrope walker on
his rope, either stands or falls - or away ... 22 "evil people
have no songs." - How is it that the Russians have songs? 23 German
spirit ": since the age of eighteen a contradiction in adjecto 24.

So, that after the early days, you will be cancer. The historian looks
backward; finally he also believes backward. 25 Satisfaction protect
themselves against cold. Did ever a woman that is well dressed knew
a cold? - I put the case that it was barely dressed. 26 I am suspicious
of all classifications and go out of their way. The will to system is
a lack of righteousness. 27 Man holds woman for deep - why? because
you never when it comes to the bottom. The woman is not even
flat. 28 If the woman has masculine virtues, it is to run away,
and if there are no male virtues, so it can run them. 29 "How
much was formerly the conscience to bite? Which it had good teeth
- And now? what is missing? " - Question of a dentist. 30 Man
celebrates Übereilung rarely alone. In the first Übereilung always
does too much. Precisely, it is usually a matter of committing
a second - and now it does too little ... 31 The worm writhes took
it. So it is wise. He thus reduces the likelihood of the new force
to be. In the language of morality: Demuth. - 32nd It giebt a hatred
of lies and adjustment from an irritable Ehrbegriff; giebt is an
equally cowardice from hate, to the extent that the lie, by a
divine commandment, is prohibited.

Too cowardly to lie 33rd ... How much belongs to the fortunes!
The sound a bagpipes. - Without music life would be Irrthum. The
German thinks himself God singing songs. 34 On ne peut penser et écrire
qu'assis (G. Flaubert). - That I have you, nihilist! The Headquarters
of meat is just the sin against the Holy Ghost. Only have given thought
Werth 35. It giebt cases where we are like horses, we psychologists,
and restlessness Gerath: we see our own shadow in front of us
fluctuate up and down. The psychologist must be absehn to introduce
sehn 36. Whether we Immoralisten to virtue damage thun? - Just as
little, as the anarchists Prince. Only since these are wounded,
they sit back firmly on its throne. Moral: it's the morality anschiessen
37. You run ahead? - Thust you as a shepherd? or an exception? A third
case would be the runaway ... First question conscience 38. Are you
real? or just an actor? A representative? or represented themselves?
- Last, you are even just a made according to actor ... Second question
conscience. 39 The disappointed speaks. - I was looking for great
people, I always found only the apes of their ideals. 40 Are you
one who watches?

or the hands? - Or the wegsieht at hand ... Third conscience issue.
41 Will you mitgehn? or vorangehn? or go for you? ... One must know
what you want and that you want. Fourth Question Conscience 42. The
steps were for me I climbed up on it - I had to have it out. But
they thought I wanted them to me on retire 43rd ... What is it that
I keep right! I have too much law. - And who laughs best today, also
laughs last 44. Formula my happiness: a Yes, No, a straight line one
goal ... The problem of Socrates. 1 About the life at all times equal
to the wisest geurtheilt It is no good ... Always and everywhere
have learned from their mouths the same sound heard - a
sound full of doubt, full Schwermuth fully on fatigue life,
resistance to full life. Even Socrates said, as he died: "live -
that means long sick: I am the Savior Asklepios a cock guilty." Even
Socrates was tired of it. - What does that prove?

What is this? - Once you have said (- oh man, and has said it loud
enough and advancing our pessimists): "Here, little if any
true! The consensus sapientium proves the truth." - Will we still
be talking about? Shall we? "There is little if any ill" - we give to
the answer: this wisest of all time, one should first look up
close! Were they perhaps allesammt on his feet no longer find? Late?
shaky? decadent? Appear, perhaps the wisdom of the earth as a
raven, a small smell of carrion excited? ... 2 Myself, this
Unehrerbietigkeit that the major ways of decline-types are, at
first just in a case worked, where their most learned and the
unscholarly prejudice precludes: I recognized Socrates and Plato
as symptoms of decay, as tools of the Greek resolution, as pseudo-Greek,
as anti-Greek ( "The Birth of Tragedy" 1872), the consensus sapientium
- the term I always better - at least proves that they had with the
law, which they agreed: it proves rather that they themselves, this
way, any what physiologically identical to the same negative way
of life to stand - to stand.

Urtheile, Werthurtheile about life, for or against, as you can never
be true: they have only Werth as symptoms, they come only as
symptoms in , - in themselves such Urtheile silly. One must certainly
extend his fingers afterwards and try to make this amazing finesse
to grasp that the Werth of life can not be. From a living not
because such a party, or even dispute the object and not judges, not
by a Todt, for one other reason. - From the pages of a philosopher
of life Werth sehn remains a problem in such a way even a throw
against him, a question mark on his wisdom, an unwise. - How?

and all these big practices - they were not only decadent, they
would not even be had? - But I come to the problem of Socrates back.
3 Socrates belonged, its origin, for the lowest people: Socrates
was rabble. You know you see it yourself yet, how ugly he was. But
ugliness, in itself an objection, is among the Greeks almost a
refutation. Was Socrates a Greek at all? The Ugliness is often enough
the expression of a cross, the crossing inhibited development. In
the
other case it appears as niedergehende development.

Criminalisten among anthropologists tell us that the typical criminal
is ugly: in front of monster, monster in ANIMO.

But the criminal is a decadent. Was Socrates a typical criminal?

- At least that would be contrary to the famous physiognomy-Urtheil
not the friends of Socrates sounded so offensive. An alien who is
understood to faces, said as he came through Athens, Socrates in
his face that he was a monster - he berge all bad vices and desires
in them.

And Socrates merely answered: "You know me, sir!" - 4 On Decadence
Socrates suggests not only the zugestandne Wüstheit and anarchy in the
instincts: there is also the sign of logical Superfötation and those
Rhachitiker-venom, which concerned him. Remember we also heard
that no-Hallucination, which, as "Dämonion of Socrates," in Religious
interpretirt's been.

Everything is exaggerated, buffo, caricature of him, everything is
also hidden, hintergedanklich, underground. - I am looking to understand
the idiosyncrasy of the Socratic equation of reason = virtue =
happiness comes: those most bizarre equation that giebt and in
particular all the instincts of the older Hellenes against him. 5
With Socrates, the Greek tastes favor the dialectic of what is actually
happening?

Above all, it defeated a distinguished taste, the mob will come with
the dialectic top. Before Socrates rejected in the society of good
manners from dialectical: they were considered bad manners, they were
just. It warned the youth before them.

Also mistrusted alone such Präsentiren its reasons. Honnette take
things as honnette people, their reasons are not so obvious. It
is improper to show all five fingers. What evidence can only be, is
of little worth. Everywhere, even where the authority of morality is
one where you can not "justified", but bids, the dialectic is a
sort of sausages Hans: one laughs about it, you take him seriously.
- Socrates was the Hans Wurst, who take seriously made: what actually
happened there? - 6th Man chooses dialectic only when one has no means
andres. One knows that it aroused suspicion with her that
she persuades little. Wegzuwischen Nothing is easier than a
dialectical effect: the experience of each meeting, where talk is
proof of that you can only Nothwehr be in the hands of those
with no others have more weapons. One must be right to force have
more to do not use it. The Jews were therefore dialectics; Reinecke
Fuchs, it was: how? and it was Socrates? - 7 - Is the irony of
Socrates an expression of revolt? by rabble-resentment? Suppressed
as he enjoys his own knife in the Ferocität bites of syllogism?
He is to avenge the nobles, he fascinirt? - Man has, as the dialectics,
a hard-free tool in the hand, you can make him the tyrant, and one is
just by wins. The dialectic leaves his opponents evidence to be
no idiot: he makes wüthend, he also makes hülflos. The dialectics
depotenzirt the intellect of his opponent. - How? dialectic is
only a form of revenge in Socrates? 8th I have to understand where,
what Socrates could repel: it is all the more so, to declare that he
fascinirte. - That he, a new type Agon discovered that he was the
first fencing master for them to make Athens's circles, is the One.
He fascinirte by the impulse to shoot the Hellenes stirred, - he
brought a variant in the wrestling match between young men and youths.
Socrates was also a great erotic 9. But Socrates errieth more. He
looked behind his make Athens, he realized that his case, his
idiosyncrasy of the case is already the case was no exception. The
same type of Degenerescenz prepared over in silence: the old Athens
went to an end. - And Socrates understood that all the world
Nöthiger he had - his means, his cure, his staff-trick of
self-preservation ...

Everywhere the instincts were in anarchy, everywhere, it was
five steps away from excess: the monster in ANIMO was the
general danger. "The shoots to make the tyrant, we must
invent a counter-tyrant who is stronger" ... As those which Socrates
physiognomy had revealed who he was, a cave of all evil
desires, let the great ironist, a word stated that the key to him
giebt. "This is true, he said, but I was all about Lord." How has
Socrates about sir?

- His case was in fact only the extreme case, only the jumping into
the eyes of what was the general North to anfieng: that no one is more
about Mr. was that the instincts turned against each other. He
fascinirte than this extreme case - threatening its ugliness him for
each eye: he fascinirte, as is obvious, even more than answers, as a
solution, as apparently the cure of this case. - 10 Nöthiger If one
has the sense to make a tyrant, as Socrates is that, so the danger
must not be small, something that makes Andres tyrants. The
sensibleness Errath was saved, there was neither Socrates nor his
"patients" free, to be wise, - it was de rigueur, it was their last
resort. The fanaticism with which the entire Greek thought to the
reasonableness raises , verräth a Nothlage: one was in danger, we
only had a choice: either to go or why - absurd to be reasonable ...

The moralism of the Greek philosophers from Plato is pathologically
conditioned; as its estimate of the dialectic. Reason = virtue =
happiness simply means: you must be under the Socrates and dark against
the desire to produce permanence in daylight - the daylight of
reason. You need smart, clear, bright at any price: any yielding to
the instincts of the subconscious's lead down ... 11 I have to
understand where, what Socrates fascinirte: he seemed to be a
doctor, a Savior to be. Is it Nöthiger, nor the Irrthum show in his
belief in "rationality at any price" was? - It is a self-deception
on the part of philosophers and moralists, so that even from the
outside of Decadence that they make war against the same. The
editors will occur outside of its force: what it means when, as a
rescue to choose is itself just another expression of Decadence -
they change their expression, they do not create themselves away.
Socrates was a misunderstanding, and the entire correctional ethics,
including Christian, was a
misunderstanding ...

The bright daylight, the rationality at any price, the lives of
bright, cold, cautious, conscious, without instinct, in opposition
to instincts was himself only a disease, a disease andre - and
certainly not a return to "virtue" to "Health" , fortunately ...

Must fight the instincts - that is the formula for Decadence: as long
as life ascends, happiness is the same instinct. - 12 - Did he
even realized that wisest of all self-Lister?

He said the last, in the wisdom of his Muths to death ... Socrates
wanted to die - not Athens, he gave the poison cup, he forced Athens
to poison cup ... Socrates is no physician, he spoke softly to himself:
"Death itself is a doctor here ... Socrates himself was only a
long illness ..." The "reason" in philosophy: 1. You ask me what all
the idiosyncrasy of philosophers is ... For example, their lack of
historical sense, their hatred against the idea of becoming
themselves, their Ägypticismus. They believe one thing anzuthun an
honor, if it takes the same enthistorisiren, sub specie aetemi -
if they make her a mummy.

All that philosophers have handled for millennia, were
concept-mummies; there was nothing really alive out of their hands.
Toedter you, plug it in, these gentlemen term idolaters, when they
worship, - they are all extremely dangerous when they associate.
The death of change, as well as the age of procreation and Wachsthum
they are objections - even refutations.

What is not, what is not ... Now they all believe, even with despair
at's Being. Because it but its not habhaft be looking after them
reasons why it's being denied them. "There must be a sham, a fraud to
be that we do not perceive Being: where's the scam?" - "We have
him to scream they blissful, it's the sensuality! This sense,
which is otherwise so immoral that they deceive us about the real
world. Moral: get away from the Sinnentrug, from becoming, from
history, from the lie, - History is nothing but faith in the senses,
belief in the lie.

Moral: Say no to everything, what the senses gives faith, for all the
rest of humanity: this is all `people`. philosopher to his mummy,
the Monotono-Theismus Todtengräber by a mime-show!

Therefore it is plainly a heresy condemned long
since by the Church to say that in Christ there are two hypostases,
or two supposita, or that the union did not take place in the
hypostasis or suppositum. Hence in the same Synod (can. 2) it is
said: "If anyone does not confess that the Word was united to flesh
in subsistence, and that Christ with His flesh is both--to wit, God
and man--let him be anathema."

Reply Obj. 1: As accidental difference makes a thing "other"
(_alterum_), so essential difference makes "another thing" (_aliud_).
Now it is plain that the "otherness" which springs from accidental
difference may pertain to the same hypostasis or suppositum in
created things, since the same thing numerically can underlie
different accidents. But it does not happen in created things that
the same numerically can subsist in divers essences or natures. Hence
just as when we speak of "otherness" in regard to creatures we do not
signify diversity of suppositum, but only diversity of accidental
forms, so likewise when Christ is said to be one thing or another
thing, we do not imply diversity of suppositum or hypostasis, but
diversity of nature. Hence Gregory Nazianzen says in a letter to
Chelidonius (Ep. ci): "In the Saviour we may find one thing and
another, yet He is not one person and another. And I say 'one thing
and another'; whereas, on the contrary, in the Trinity we say one
Person and another (so as not to confuse the subsistences), but not
one thing and another."

Reply Obj. 2: Hypostasis signifies a particular substance, not in
every way, but as it is in its complement. Yet as it is in union with
something more complete, it is not said to be a hypostasis, as a hand
or a foot. So likewise the human nature in Christ, although it is a
particular substance, nevertheless cannot be called a hypostasis or
suppositum, seeing that it is in union with a completed thing, viz.
the whole Christ, as He is God and man. But the complete being with
which it concurs is said to be a hypostasis or suppositum.

Reply Obj. 3: In created things a singular thing is placed in a genus
or species, not on account of what belongs to its individuation, but
on account of its nature, which springs from its form, and in
composite things individuation is taken more from matter. Hence we
say that Christ is in the human species by reason of the nature
assumed, and not by reason of the hypostasis.
_______________________

FOURTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 2, Art. 4]

Whether After the Incarnation the Person or Hypostasis of Christ Is
Composite?

Objection 1: It would seem that the Person of Christ is not
composite. For the Person of Christ is naught else than the Person or
hypostasis of the Word, as appears from what has been said (A. 2).
But in the Word, Person and Nature do not differ, as appears from
First Part (Q. 39, A. 1). The same does not lie in the way the Eleaten
believe it, nor what he believed - they do not lie. What we make out
of their certificate, which specifies only a lie in, for example,
the lie of unity, the lie of the thing, the substance, the duration
...

The "reason" is the reason that we have the certificate of meaning
fake. Unless the meaning becoming the Vergehn, changes to show
they do not lie ... But that Heraclitus is eternally right, that
being an empty fiction.

The "apparent" world is the only one: the real world is just
hinzugelogen ... 3 - And what fine tools of observation, we have
to our senses! This nose, for example, by the philosopher with no
reverence and gratitude has spoken, even temporarily, the delicate
instrument, which is bidding to us: it can still minimal differences
of motion constatiren that not even the spectroscope constatirt.

We have now just as much science as we have determined that the
certificate referred to - as we sharpen them further, arm, thinking
it to be learned.

The rest is Miss Still-birth and non-science: to say metaphysics,
theology, psychology, epistemology. Or Formal science, drawing lesson:
how the logic and the logic applied to mathematics. In them, the
reality did not before, not even a problem, nor as the question of
what Werth ever sign such a convention, as the logic has. - 4 The
other idiosyncrasy of philosophers is no less dangerous: it
is the last and the first to be confused. You use that what comes at
the end - unfortunately!

because it should not come!

- The "highest concepts", ie the most general, the empty words,
the last smoke of evaporating reality, at the beginning than the
beginning.

This is again only the expression of their way to worship:
the higher may not grow out of the Niedere, must not be grown ...
Moral: Everything is first class, must be causa sui. The origin of
something else is considered objection, as Werth-Anzweifelung. All
are top values as first class, all the
highest concepts, being, the unconditional, the good, the true,
the A complete - that everything can not become and must therefore
be causa sui.

The Everything but can not be equal to each other, may not be at
odds with his ...

So they have their amazing concept "God" ...

The last, thin, empty is the first set, as a cause in itself, as
realissimum ens ... That the suffering humanity, the brain is sick
spider weaver must take seriously! - And it has paid Theuermann ... 5
- Are we finally on the other hand, in which different species, we
(- I say we polite way ...) the problem of Irrthums and appear
to be in the eye's grasp. Formerly it was the change in the exchange,
becoming even as evidence for apparently, as a sign that something
must be there to lead us astray.

Today, conversely, we see exactly as much as the reason-prejudice
compels us, unity, identity, duration, substance, cause, thing, His
statements, we gewissermaassen entangled in the Irrthum, necessitirt
to Irrthum; so sure we are on a strict verification We are about
that here is the Irrthum.

There is thus no different than with the movements of the big stars:
among them, the Irrthum our eyes, here, he has to steady our language
lawyer. The language is part of their formation according to the
time of the rudimentärsten form of psychology: we come into a rough
fetish beings into it, if we look at the basic requirements of
language-metaphysic, in German: of reason, to bring awareness.

Thäter That looks everywhere and tuna: believes in the will as a cause
at all;'s believes in the "I" in I's as being, in substance as the
I's and projicirt faith in the I-substance of all things - it creates
so that only the word "thing" ... Being is everywhere as a cause it
thought untergeschoben; Conception of "I" follows only when derived
the word "His" ...

At the beginning there is the big Verhängniss of Irrthum that the will
is something that works - that will be an asset ... Today we know
that he is just a word ... Much later, in a world empowered thousands
of times, the safety, the subjective certainty in the handling of
Vemunft categories philosophers to consciousness with a surprise:
they concluded that the same is not derived from the empiricism could
- all the evidence is yes to them in contradiction. How come so? -
And in India as in Greece has made the same mistake: "we have ever
been in a higher world was his home (- instead of in a much lower,
what would have been the truth!)

, We have been divinely, because we have reason !"... In That, nothing
has so far had a naive Überredungskraft than Irrthum of being, as
it is, for example by the Eleaten formulirt was: he did so for
every word, every sentence in itself that we speak! - Even the opponents
of Eleaten documents nor the seduction of their concept of
being: Democritus among others, when he invented his atom ...
The "Reason" in language: oh what an old deceptive Weibsperson!
I fear we will not get rid of God because we still believe in grammar
... 6 You will be grateful to me if I have such a key, so new insight
into four theses zusammendränge: I thus facilitates the understanding,
so I urge the opposition out. First sentence. The reasons pointed
out "this" world has been named as a seemingly is justified rather
the reality - a reality of other kinds is absolutely unnachweisbar.
Second sentence. The indicator, which is the "true being" of things,
has the characteristic of non-being, of nothingness, - it has the
"real world" from the opposition to the real world: a world in which
apparent That, inasmuch as they merely a moral-optical illusion. Third
sentence. From an "other" than this world has to fables do not make
sense, provided that it is not an instinct of slander, reduction,
suspicion of the life in us is powerful: in the latter case, we
avenge ourselves on living with the phantasmagoria of "another," a
"better" life.

Fourth sentence. The world in between a "true" and an "apparent",
whether in the nature of the Christenthums, whether in the
nature of Kant's (a malevolent Christians finally) is only a
suggestion of Decadence, - a symptom niedergehenden life ...
The fact that the artist appreciates the apparent higher than
reality, is no objection to this sentence. Because "sham" here
means the reality once again, only in a selection, amplification,
Correctur ... The tragic artist is no pessimist - he just says yes
to everything questionable and terrible course, he is Dionysian
... How the "real world" was finally fable. Irrthums story of a 1. The
real world attainable for the wise, the pious, the virtuous, - he
lives in it, he is. (The oldest form of the idea, relatively smart,
simple, convincing. Circumscription of the sentence: "I, Plato, am
the truth". ) 2. The real world, unattainable for now, but promised
to the wise, the pious, the virtuous ( "for the sinner, does the
bus"). (Progress of the idea: it is fine, insidious, incomprehensible
- it is a wife, she Christian is ...) 3 The real world, unattainable,
unprovable, unversprechbar, but even as a thought of a consolation,
an obligation, an imperative.

(The old sun in essence, but through mist and skepticism throughout
the sublime idea become pale, Nordic, Bergisch royal.) 4 . The true
world - unattainable? unmatched in any case. And as unattained also
unknown. Consequently, not consoling, redemptive, mandatory: what
could we commit something unknown? ... (Gray morning. The first
yawn of reason. Cockcrow of positivism.) 5. The "real world" - an idea
which is nothing more useful, is not even mandatory - a useless,
an idea had become superfluous, consequently a refuted idea: we
create them!

(Bright day; breakfast; return of bon sens and merriment; Schamröthe
Plato's; vicious noise of all free spirits.) 6 The real world we have
abolished: what the world was left? Perhaps the apparent ... But no!
with the real world, we have also abolished the apparent! (lunch;
moment of the shortest shadow; the end of the longest Irrthums; height
of humanity; Incipit ZARATHUSTRA.) moral nature as an opponent.
1 All passions have a time where they just
verhängnissvoll are where they met with the severity of the stupidity
of their victims hinunterziehen - and later, much later, where they
are with the spirit verheirathen to "spiritualization".

Formerly it was because of the stupidity in the Passion, the Passion
of the war itself: you verschwor to their destruction - all the old
moral Unthiere are einmüthig about "il faut les passions door."

The most famous formula for this is the New Testament, in that
mountain sermon, where, enclosed said, things are not quite on the
level to be considered.

It is daselbst for example with practical application to sexuality
said "if your eye annoys you, then tear it out: fortunately is not a
Christian according to this rule. The passions and desires
destroyed, just for their stupidity and the unpleasant consequences
of their stupidity prevent, appears to us today just as an acute form
of stupidity. We admire the dentists no longer pulling the teeth
so that they no longer hurt thun ...

With some fairness to the other admitted that on the ground from which
the Christenthum has grown, the term "spiritualization of Passion" is
not concipirt could be. The first church was struggling so, as is
known, against the "intelligent" in favor of the "poor of the
mind": how should it be an intelligent war against passion expect?

- The church fights passion with a cut in every sense: its practice,
its "cure" is the Castratismus. They never ask: "How spiritualizes,
beautifies, vergöttlicht you have a craving?" - It has at all times
the emphasis of the Discipline of the extinction (of sensuality,
of pride, the Herrschsucht, the greed, vindictiveness of) laid. -
But the passions at the root means to attack life at the root of
attack: the practice of the Church is hostile ... 2 This means
blending, extermination, instinct is at war with a craving for those
chosen to be weak-willed, too degenerirt are to get a Maass in it
to hang from those natures, the La Trappe Nöthiger have spoken in
Gleidiniss (without parables -), any enmity final statement, a gap
between themselves and a passion.

The radical funds are only Degenerirten indispensable, and the
weakness of will, bestinunter talk, the inability to a stimulus
not to reagiren is itself merely a form of andre Degenerescenz.
The radical hostility to Todfeindschaft against the pensive sensuality
remains a symptom: it is expected hypothesis on the total condition
of such Excessive entitled. - That enmity, hatred that comes only
incidentally to its tip, even if such natures to radical cure, for
the cancellation of their "devil" will no longer have enough strength.

You look over the whole history of the priests and philosophers, the
artists added: the poisonous against the senses is not the Impotent
said, not even by the ascetics, but by the impossible ascetics,
by those who Nöthiger had to be ascetics ... 3 The spiritualization
of sensuality is called love: it is a great triumph over the
Christenthum. A triumph else is our spiritualization of enmity. It
is that deeply understands the Werth, it has to have enemies: in
short, that it does and vice versa when it closes and that previously
closed.

The church wanted to at all times, the destruction of their enemies:
we, we Immoralisten and anti-Christians, see our advantages is that
the church is ... Also in Politics is the spiritual enmity now
become - much wiser, much more thoughtful, more gentle. Almost
every party understands their self-interest in conservation is
that the opposing party does not come from staff, the same is true of
the great policy. A new creation because, as the new empire, has
Nöthiger enemies than friends: in opposition until it feels necessary,
in contrast, it is only necessarily ... Otherwise we are against
the "internal enemy", also because we have the spiritual enmity,
because we have grasped their Werth. It is fruitful only at the cost
of contrasts to be rich, young man, only under the condition that the
soul is not stretched, no desire for peace ... Nothing is more alien
we become as the desirability of Formerly belonging to the "peace
of the soul," the Christian desirability; Nothing makes us
less envious than the morale-fat cow and the happiness of a good
conscience. It has renounced the great life when one renounces war on
the ... In many cases, admittedly, the "peace of the soul" just a
misunderstanding - something else that is just not honest to appoint
white. Without further ado, and prejudice a few cases.

"Peace of the soul" For instance, the gentle radiance of a rich
animality into the moral (or religious) to be. Or the beginning
of the fatigue, the first shadows of the evening, any evening raises.
Or a sign that the air is humid, that south winds approaching.
Or the gratitude contradict knowledge for a happy digestive ( "People
love" sometimes called). Or the silence of the genes are concerned,
all the new things to taste and waiting ... Or condition of a
strong satisfaction is our ruling passion, the feeling of satiety
seltnen. Or the old weakness of our will, our desires, our vices.
Or laziness, persuaded by vanity, morally aufzuputzen. Or, the
occurrence of a certainty, even dreadful certainty, after a long
Marterung by tension and uncertainty.

Or the expression of maturity and mastery in the middle of the tuna,
creativity, work, want the quiet Athmer, reached the "freedom of
will" ... Twilight idols: who knows? maybe just a kind of "peace of
the soul" ... 4 - I bring a formula in Princip. Each naturalism in
morality, which means any healthy moral instincts is one of life
dominated - a bid of some of life is with a particular canon of
"Should" and "Should not" met, any inhibition and hostility towards
the life is so that page done. The perverse morality, which
means almost any morals that were previously taught, revered, and
preached has been aimed precisely reversed against the instincts of
life, - it is a secret soon, soon to be loud and nasty this
Verurtheilung instincts. By saying "God sees the heart," she says
No to the lowest and highest desire of life and take God as an enemy
of life ... The saint, in which God's pleasure, is the ideal Castrat
...

Life is too late, where the "kingdom of God" begins ... 5 law
that the term of such a sacrilege against the living well, as in the
Christian morality has become almost sacrosanct, it has looked
at, fortunately, also something Andres grasped: the useless, Apparent,
absurd, lying such a rebellion. A Verurtheilung of life by the living
remains as yet only the symptom of a certain kind of life:
the question of whether law, whether wrong, is not so raised. One
would have a position outside of life, and the other is so
well known as one, as many as all of you who have lived it to the
problem of Werth of life ever to be allowed to touch: reasons enough
to understand that the problem is a problem for us is inaccessible.
When we talk of Werther, we talk on the inspiration, under the appearance
of life: life itself forces us values as to be, life itself
werthet by us, if we start values as ... It follows that the nature
of moral conflict which God as the counter-concept and summarizes
Verurtheilung of life, just a Werthurtheil of life - what life?
What kind of life? - But I already gave the answer: the niedergehenden,
the weak, the weary, the verurtheilten life.

Morality, as it has been understood - as they were last formulirt
nor Schopenhauer was described as "negation of the will to live"
- Decadence is the instinct itself, which makes an imperative: it
says: "go to why" it is the Urtheil Verurtheilter ... 6 Are we finally
have what Naivetät it actually is, to say "so and so should the man
be!" The reality shows us a delightful Reichthum types, the luxuriance
a wasteful form of game and change: and any meager corner of
moralist says: "No! Man should be any different "?... He knows
it even as it should be, this chute and Mucke, he paints on the wall
and says, "ecce homo !"... But even when the moralist is just at the
individual turns to him and says, "so and so should you be!"
he does not hear, to make a fool of. The individual is a piece of
Fate, from the front and rear, a bill more, a necessarily more for
everything, and will be.

For him to say "change you" does require that all changes, even
back yet ... And really, there was conséquent moralists, they
wanted the person differently, namely, virtuous, they wanted him
to her picture, namely as Mucke: they denied the world! No small
madness! Bescheidne No kind of immodesty! ... The moral, insofar
as they verurtheilt, in itself, not from respect, consideration,
intent to life, is a specific Irrthum with which you should have no
pity, a Degenerirten-idiosyncrasy, the untold amount of damage has
donated! ... We others, we Immoralisten, conversely, have made
our hearts for all kind of understand, understanding, support. We may
not deny that we seek our glory is to be affirmative. More and more
is our eye for the economy worked, what all the needs and auszunützen
yet knows what the holy joke But the priest, the priest in the
sick reason rejects, for the economy in the law of life, even from
the disgusting species of Mucke the priest, the virtuous pulls its
advantages - what advantages?

- But we ourselves, we are here Immoralisten the answer ... - The
four major Irrthümer 1. Irrthum the confusion of cause and consequence.
- It giebt no more dangerous than the Irrthum sequence with the cause
to be confused: I warn him the real reason of the corruptions. Despite
this Irrthum belongs to the oldest and most recent habits of mankind:
it is even hallowed among us, it bears the name of "religion",
"morality".

Every sentence that religion and morality formulirt contain
him, a priest and moral law are the authors of those corruptions of
reason. - I take an example: Everyone knows the book of the famous
Cornaro in which his slender diet as Recept to a long and happy life
- even virtuous - anräth. Few books have been read so much, yet
now it is in England a year in many thousands of copies. I have no
doubt that hardly a book (the Bible, such as cheap, gutted) donated
so much harm, so many lives shortened as so well-Curiosum. Reason:
the result of confusion with the cause. The conventional Italiae
saw his diet in the cause of his long life: during the pre-condition
for long life, the extraordinary slowness of the metabolism, the low
consumption, the cause of his slender diet was.
Now all relations which begin in time are
brought about by some change; and change consists in action and
passion. Hence the _first_ and principal difference between
assumption and union must be said to be that union implies the
relation: whereas assumption implies the action, whereby someone is
said to assume, or the passion, whereby something is said to be
assumed. Now from this difference another _second_ difference arises,
for assumption implies _becoming,_ whereas union implies _having
become,_ and therefore the thing uniting is said to be united, but
the thing assuming is not said to be assumed. For the human nature is
taken to be in the terminus of assumption unto the Divine hypostasis
when man is spoken of; and hence we can truly say that the Son of
God, Who assumes human nature unto Himself, is man. she did not show?
By Allen strengthens or weakens them some estimates Werth ... Is this
just a side? a coincidence? Something in which the instinct of the
artist would not betheiligt? Or: it is not the prerequisite is
that the artists can be ...? If the lowest instincts of the art
or not much more to the meaning of art, life? on a desirability of
life? - Art is the great stimulant to life: how could it be as
futile as aimless, as l'art pour l'art understand? - A question left
behind: the art is also much ugly, hard, Questionable for the
appearance of life, - they do not seem so out of life entleiden? -
And in That, there were philosophers, their sense liehn this: "get
away from the will" as Schopenhauer taught Plot-intention of the art,
"for resignation vote" as he admired the great usefulness of the
tragedy. - But this - I gave it to understand - is optics pessimists
and "evil eye" - you have to the artists themselves appelliren.

What theilt of the tragic artist is? Is it not just the state without
fear of the terrible and questionable that he shows?

- This condition is a high desirability, who knows him, honors him
with the highest honors. He theilt him that he needs him mittheilen,
provided that he is an artist, a genius of Mittheilung. The bravery
and freedom of feeling before a powerful enemy, before a sublime
inconvenience, before a problem that evokes dread - this triumphant
state is to the tragic artist chooses, he is glorified.

Before the tragedy, celebrates the war in our souls his Saturnalia,
but if you are accustomed to suffering, who is suffering aufsucht,
the heroic man praises the tragedy with his existence, - he alone
serving tragedian of the draft this sweetest cruelty. - 25 With
people fürlieb take, with his heart open house hold, that is liberal,
but that is merely liberal. One can recognize the heart that
carry the hospitality are capable imposed from the many windows
and closed shops: keep their best rooms empty.

But Why?

- Because they expect guests with whom you do not "fürlieb takes" 26
We are no longer enough, if we mittheilen.

Our actual experiences are not at all talkative. They could not
even mittheilen if they wanted. That makes, they lack the word.
What words we have to think about, we are also already out.
In all speeches, a Gran contempt. The language, it seems, is only
average, middle, Mittheilsames invented. With the language of
vulgarisirt already speaking. - From a morality for deaf-mutes and
other philosophers. 27 "This portrait is enchantingly beautiful
!"...

The literature-wife, unsatisfied, excited, desolate in the heart and
viscera, with painful curiosity any time on the imperative
hinhorchend, from the depths of his organization "aut liberi
aut libri" whispers: the literature-wife, educated enough, the
voice of nature to understand, even if they speak Latin and the
other vain and goose enough to secretly even French is to speak
with "je me verrai, je me lirai, depending m'extasierai et je dirai:
Possible, tant que eu j'aie d'esprit?

"28 The" impersonal "have their say. - "Nothing is easier than wise,
patient, superior to his. We triefen from the oil of forbearance
and compassion, we are in an absurd manner, we forgive everything.
Eben about something we should keep strict; precisely should we,
from time to time, a little emotional, a little vice of Affect
breed. It may sour angehn us, and we laugh, we might have a point
that we give.

But what is it we have no other kind left of self-overcoming: this
is our ascetics, our Büsserthum "... Personally - the virtue of the"
impersonal "... 29 From a Doctor promotion. - "What is the task of all
higher education?" - From the people to make a machine. - "What is
the means to do so?" - He must learn to be bored. - "How do you
reach that?" - Through the concept of duty. - "Who is his role
model for this?"

- The Philologist: teaches the mug. - "Who is the perfect man?" -
The state officials. - "Which philosophy giebt the formula for the
highest state officials?" - The Kant's: the state officials as a
thing in itself as a judge on the set of state officials as a
phenomenon. - 30 The right to stupidity. - The tired and slow athmende
worker who looks gutmüthig that things can go, how they go: this
typical figure, the man now in the age of work (and the "empire"
-) in all classes of the society met Today is just the art can
claim, included in the book, especially the Journal, - how much
longer the beautiful nature, Italy ...

The man of the evening, with "those who shoot wild, of which
Faust speaks, requires Sommerfrische, the seaside resort, the glacier,
Bayreuth's ... In such ages art has a right to pure Thorheit, - as a
kind of vacation for spirit, wit and Gemüth. The Wagner understood.
The pure Thorheit constitutes restores ... 31 Another problem of diet.
- The means by which Julius Caesar against sickliness and headache
vertheidigte: tremendous marches, the simplest way of life,
ununterbrochner stay outdoors, resistant strains - that is, in Large's
expected with the conservation and protection rules Maass ever
against the extreme vulnerability of that subtle and under the highest
pressure-working machine, which is called genius. - 32 The Immoralist
talking. - A philosopher is no longer resist the taste than the
man, if he wishes ...

He sees people only in his tuna, he sees the bravest, cunning,
persistent Thierhaupten lost even in labyrinthine Nothlagen how
admirably it appears the man!

He speaks to him ... But the philosopher despises the wish of the
people, including the "desirable" people - and all desirability,
all ideals of man.

If a Nihilist philosopher might be he would be, because he is nothing
behind all the ideals of the people there. Or not even nothing, -
but only the non-decent, the absurd, the sick, the fig, the Tired,
all kinds of yeasts ausgetrunkenen the cup of his life ... The man,
a reality that is worthy of veneration as, how is it that he deserves
no respect, if he wishes? Should he lose it so hard to be a
reality? Does he Thun, the head tension and desire in all tuna, with
a limb lines in imaginary and absurd offset? - The history of its
desirability has been the lot of man honteuse:
you should be careful not too long to read it.

What justifies man is his reality - it is eternally justify him.

By how much more worth is the true man, compared with any merely
desired, dream, only unkenen people and lies?

with any ideal man? ... And only the ideal man is the philosopher
resist the taste. 33 Werth nature of selfishness. - The egoism is
worth as much as the physiologically is worth, it has: it can be worth
much, it can not be worthy and despicable. Every individual must be
pointed out, if he or she is ascending or descending line of life.
With a decision as you have a canon for what its worth is self-seeking.

If they move up the line, so is in the Werth That's extremely - and
the total life-willed, with a step further, he does, the concern for
conservation in order to create optimum conditions of his own extreme.
The individual, the "individual", as people and philosopher
previously understood, is a Irrthum: it is nothing for himself, no
atom, no "ring of the chain, nothing merely inherited from Formerly,
- he is the whole A line man up to him myself yet ...

If the descending development, decay, chronic degeneration,
disorder of (- diseases in Grosse's expected already sequelae of
decline, not its causes), so it comes to little Werth, and the
first equity wants it Wohlgerathenen as little as possible removed.

He is now only the parasite ... 34th and Christian anarchist. - When
the anarchist, as the mouthpiece niedergehender strata of society,
with a beautiful outrage "right", "justice", "equal rights" demands,
it is so only under pressure from his Unkultur who do not know to
understand why he suffers - where he is poor in life ...

A cause is driving him mightily: Someone must be to blame, that he
is bad ... Also does it the "beautiful indignation" itself has probably,
it is a pleasure for all poor devils to scold, - it giebt a small rush
of power. Even the claim that self-mourning, the life may give a
stimulus to whom it was unbearable: a smaller dose of revenge in
every complaint, it raises his Bad-being, possibly even his wickedness
those who are different, like an injustice, such as unauthorized
privilege before. "Am I Canaille, then you should also be": in this
logic that makes one revolution. - The self-mourning is good in any
case something comes out of weakness. Whether it's bad being himself
or others to measure -. former Socialist does the latter, for example,
the Christ - makes no real difference.

The Common, say, the disgraceful thing is that someone to blame it
should be, that one is suffering - in short, that the suffering to end
his suffering is the honey of revenge decreed. The objects of this
Rach-need as a want-need are occasional causes the sufferer takes
causes, his little revenge cool - he is Christian, said again, you
can find them in the ... The Christian and the anarchist - Both are
decadent. - But even if the Christian the "world" verurtheilt,
vilified, defiled, so he does it out of the same instincts, which
the Socialist Workers verurtheilt society, vilified, defiled: the
recent court "itself is still the sweet consolation of the revenge
- the revolution, as the Socialist Workers also expects just also
thought ...

The "beyond" itself - including a Hereafter if it is not a means would
be the soil on this side? ... Critique of 35th-Moral Decadence. An
"altruistic" morality, a morality, in which the selfishness away -
remains under all circumstances, a bad sign. This is true of individuals,
this is particularly true of nations. There is no best if it's
selfishness begins to be missing.

Instinctively, the self-damaging choose-be lured by "uninteressirte
'motives giebt nearly formula for Decadence." Not looking for its
usefulness "- which is merely the moral fig leaf for an entirely
different, namely physiological Thatsächlichkeit:" I know my
benefit impossible to find "Disgregation the instincts! - It's all
over with him when the man is altruistic. - Instead of naive to say,
"I am worth nothing," says the morality lie in the mouth of the
decadent: "Nothing is worth something - life is worth nothing"
... Such as last Urtheil remains a big threat, it is contagious - in
the whole morbid soil of society it soon became rampant tropical
vegetation-term rise, soon as a religion (Christenthum), as soon
as philosophy (Schopenhauerei). Under such circumstances, poisoning
from toxic Fäulniss grown tree vegetation with its vapor widely
in the years to life ... 36th morale of doctors. - The patient is a
parasite of society.

In some states it is improper to even longer to live. The Fortvegetiren
in cowardly dependence on physicians and practices, once the meaning
of life, the right to
life is lost, should the company after a deep contempt that ziehn.

The doctors in turn would have the mediators of this contempt to
be - not Recepten, but every day a new dose of disgust in front of
their patients ...

A new responsibility, which the doctor, for all cases where the
supreme interests of life, rising life, the ruthless low-aside and
the insistence of the degenerate life demands - for example, for
the right to procreation, for the right to be born, for the right
to live ...

On a proud species to die when it is no longer possible for a proud way
of life. The death, freely chosen, death at the right time, with
Bright and joyousness, in the midst of children and witnesses of
enforced so that a real Take farewell is still possible, where the
still is there, which is adopted insgleichen a real estimate of
the achievements and wanted a Summirung of life - everything, in
contrast to the wretched and dreadful comedy that Christenthum with
the death has taken hours.

It is designed to Christenthume never forget that it is the weakness
of the dying to conscience Nothzucht that the nature of death
itself-Werth Urtheilen on humans and the past has gemissbraucht! -
Here is all cowardice, despite the prejudice, especially the
right, ie a physiological assessment of the so-called natural death
produce: the last only an "unnatural", is a suicide. It is never
someone else to reason than by itself, it is the only death among
the scornful conditions, an unfree death, death on the wrong time,
a coward's death. One should, of love of life - the death wish otherwise,
free, conscious, without accident, without overfall ...

Finally a Mr Rath for pessimists and other decadent. We have not in
hand, to prevent, to be born: but we can use this error - because
sometimes, it's a mistake - again do well. If we abolish the
achtungswürdigste does one thing, it giebt: one almost earns order
to live ...

The company, what I say! Life itself has more advantages like this,
than by any "life" in renunciation, bleach addiction and virtues
else - you've got the others from his sight free, you have the life
of a liberated objection ... Pessimism, pur, vert, proves itself only
by the self-refutation of Mr. pessimists: one must go a step
further in its logic, not just with "the will and imagination," as
Schopenhauer is that, the life of the negative - that we must
Schopenhauer first negative ...

The pessimism, said enclosed so contagious it is, increasing the
morbidity is still not a time of one sex as a whole: it is their
expression. You forfeit him how to forfeit the cholera: one has
morbid enough to have been created. Pessimism itself does not make
one more decadent, and I remind you of the result of statistics that
the years in which the cholera wüthet, in the total-point of deaths
from other vintages differ 37. Whether we have become moral. - Against
my concept of "beyond good and evil" has, as expected was that the
whole of the moral Ferocität stupefying, known in Germany as the
morality itself is - that's thrown stuff: I would like to tell
stories like this.

Above all, you gave me the "undeniable superiority" of our moral Urtheil
time to rethink our really made progress here: one was Cesare
Borgia, in comparison with us, not as a "higher man", as a kind of
Übermensch, as I Thue it to set ... A Swiss journalist, from the
"Bund", went so far, not without its respect for the courage to such
ventures to express the meaning of my work so as to "understand" that
I am using the same for the abolition of all decent feelings
requested. Very connected! - Allow me, as a response to ask whether
we really have become moral. That all the world believes is an object
... We modern people, very tender, very vulnerable and hundreds
of key considerations and taking form in us That, this tender
humanity which we represent, this attained Einmüthigkeit in conservation,
in the Hülfsbereitschaft, mutual trust is a positive step forward,
so we were far beyond the beyond of the Renaissance man. But just think
every time, so it must think. It is true that we are not in the
Renaissance states should make it, do not even think about it:
our nerves were not the reality, not to speak of our muscles. With
this failure, but no progress is demonstrated, but only one other,
a subsequent condition, a weaker, more tender, vulnerable, resulting
in a necessarily considerate of morality generated.

Think Spätheit and our tenderness, our physiological aging away,
so even losing our morality of "humanizing" their immediate Werth
- in itself has no moral Werth - they would make even disdain.

The other hand we do not doubt that we moderns with our thick wattirten
Humanity, which plans to use no stone unturned to meet Will, the
contemporaries of Cesare Borgia's a comedy would submit to Todtlachen.
In That we are on the involuntary Maassen spass-term, with our
modern "virtues" ... The decrease in hostile misstrauenweckenden and
instincts - and that would be our "progress" - is just one of the
consequences in the general decline in vitality that it costs a
hundred times more effort, more caution, a so contingent, so late
existence enforce.

As we help each other, since each is to a certain extent sick Anyone
sick and guards. This means then that "virtue" -: among people who are
living somewhere else knew, full, wasteful, overflowing, it's
would have otherwise called "cowardice" perhaps,
"pathetic", "Indian morality," ...

Our mitigation of morals - that is my sentence, that is, if you
will, my innovation - is a consequence of the decline of the hardship
and horror of the custom may be reversed a consequence of the surplus
of his life: namely, it may also be large bold large challenged,
also wasted large.

What former spice of life was, for us it would be poison ...

Indifferent to be - this is a form of starch - which, we are also too
old, too late: our compassion, morality, in which I have warned the
First , Das, l'Impressionism what you might call moral, is more
an expression of physiological Überreizbarkeit that everything is
decadent, is suitable.

That movement, with the compassion-Schopenhauer's morality has tried
to demonstrate scientifically - a very unfortunate attempt! -
Decadence is the actual movement in morals, as such it is deeply
related with the Christian morality. The strong times, make the
culture look in pity, in the "charity", in lack of self esteem and
self-contemptuous something. - The times are measured in accordance
with their positive forces - and those yields are so wasteful and
disastrous period of the Renaissance than the last big time, and
we, we moderns with our anxious self-care and charity, with our
virtues of work, modesty, the legal, science - collecting, economically,
machinal - as a weak time ...

Our virtues are related, are challenged by our weakness ... The
"equality", a certain thatsächliche Anähnlichung that are in the
theory of "equal rights" only expresses significantly to the decline
include: the gap between man and man, stand and stand, the
multiplicity of types, the will, even to be to differ, that what I
call pathos of distance, each time strong as its own.

The clamping force, the spread between the extremes is now
getting smaller and smaller - the extremes themselves become blurred
to the similarity finally ...

All our political theories and state constitutions, the "German Reich"
is not excluded, are to be drawn, follow-up necessarily of decline,
the unconscious effect of Decadence is up to the ideals of individual
sciences it has become Mr. My objection to the whole Sociologie
in England and France is that they only revocation of the entity
knows from experience Societät completely innocent and their own
instincts as a revocation of the standard sociologischen Werth
ruling takes. The niedergehende lives, the acceptance of all
organize, that is divisive, tear open fissures, underground and
überordnenden force formulirt in Sociologie from today to the ideal
... Our Socialiste are decadent, but Mr. Herbert Spencer is a decadent,
- he sees the triumph of altruism rather wishes Werthes! 38th
... My definition of freedom. - The value of a thing sometimes
lies not in what you achieve with it, but in what you paid for them -
what they cost us. I'll give an example.

The liberal institutions as soon as possible to hear, to be liberal
when they are reached, it no later giebt anger and thorough damage
of freedom than liberal institutions. We know indeed what it means
to bring it unterminiren the will to power, they are charged to
the morale Nivellirung of mountain and valley, they make small,
cowardly, and pleasurably - triumphirt with them every time the
Heerdenthier.

Liberalism: the German-Heerden Verthierung ... The same institutions,
so long as they still fought for are quite different effects,
they encourage the then That the freedom of a mighty way. Zugesehn
More precisely, it is the war that produces these effects, the war
for liberal institutions, the war as the illiberal instincts can
take.

And war educates for freedom. Because what is freedom! That the desire
for self-responsibility has. That the distance which separated us,
firmly.
_I answer that,_ As was said above (A. 1), in the word assumption two
things are signified--to wit, the principle and the term of the
action. Now to be the principle of the assumption belongs to the
Divine Nature in itself, because the assumption took place by Its
power; but to be the term of the assumption does not belong to the
Divine Nature in itself, but by reason of the Person in Whom It is
considered to be. Hence a Person is primarily and more properly said
to assume, but it may be said secondarily that the Nature assumed a
nature to Its Person. And after the same manner the Nature is also
said to be incarnate, not that it is changed to flesh, but that it
assumed the nature of flesh. Hence Damascene says (De Fide Orth. iii,
6): "Following the blessed Athanasius and Cyril we say that the
Nature of God is incarnate."

Reply Obj. 1: "Oneself" is reciprocal, and points to the same
suppositum. But the Divine Nature is not a distinct suppositum from
the Person of the Word. Hence, inasmuch as the Divine Nature took
human nature to the Person of the Word, It is said to take it to
Itself. But although the Father takes human nature to the Person of
the Word, He did not thereby take it to Himself, for the suppositum
of the Father and the Son is not one, and hence it cannot properly be
said that the Father assumes human nature.

Reply Obj. 2: What is befitting to the Divine Nature in Itself is
befitting to the three Persons, as goodness, wisdom, and the like.
But to assume belongs to It by reason of the Person of the Word, as
was said above, and hence it is befitting to that Person alone.

Reply Obj. 3: As in God _what is_ and _whereby it is_ are the same,
so likewise in Him _what acts_ and _whereby it acts_ are the same,
since everything acts, inasmuch as it is a being. Hence the Divine
Nature is both that whereby God acts, and the very God Who acts.
_______________________

THIRD ARTICLE [III, Q. 3, Art. 3]

Whether the Nature Abstracted from the Personality Can Assume?

Objection 1: It would seem that if we abstract the Personality by our
mind, the Nature cannot assume. For it was said above (A. 1) that it
belongs to the Nature to assume by reason of the Person. But what
belongs to one by reason of another cannot belong to it if the other
is removed; as a body, which is visible by reason of color, without
color cannot be seen. Hence if the Personality be mentally
abstracted, the Nature cannot assume.

Obj. 2: Further, assumption implies the term of union, as was said
above (A. 1). But the union cannot take place in the nature, but only
in the Person. Therefore, if the Personality be abstracted, the
Divine Nature cannot assume.

Obj. 3: Further, it has been said above (I, Q. 40, A. 3) that in the
Godhead if the Personality is abstracted, nothing remains. But the
one who assumes is something. Therefore, if the Personality is
abstracted, the Divine Nature cannot assume.

_On the contrary,_ In the Godhead Personality signifies a personal
property; and this is threefold, viz. Paternity, Filiation and
Procession, as was said above (I, Q. 30, A. 2). Now if we mentally
abstract these, there still remains the omnipotence of God, by which
the Incarnation was wrought, as the angel says (Luke 1:37): "No word
shall be impossible with God." Therefore it seems that if the
Personality be removed, the Divine Nature can still assume.

_I answer that,_ The intellect stands in two ways towards God. First,
to know God as He is, and in this manner it is impossible for the
intellect to circumscribe something in God and leave the rest, for
all that is in God is one, except the distinction of Persons; and as
regards these, if one is removed the other is taken away, since they
are distinguished by relations only which must be together at the
same time. Secondly, the intellect stands towards God, not indeed as
knowing God as He is, but in its own way, i.e. understanding
manifoldly and separately what in God is one: and in this way our
intellect can understand the Divine goodness and wisdom, and the
like, which are called essential attributes, without understanding
Paternity or Filiation, which are called Personalities. And hence if
we abstract Personality by our intellect, we may still understand the
Nature assuming.

Reply Obj. 1: Because in God _what is,_ and _whereby it is,_ are one,
if any one of the things which are attributed to God in the abstract
is considered in itself, abstracted from all else, it will still be
something subsisting, and consequently a Person, since it is an
intellectual nature. Hence just as we now say three Persons, on
account of holding three personal properties, so likewise if we
mentally exclude the personal properties there will still remain in
our thought the Divine Nature as subsisting and as a Person. And in
this way It may be understood to assume human nature by reason of Its
subsistence or Personality.

Between a genius and his time is a ratio, such as between strong and
weak, even as between old and young: the time is always relatively
much younger, thinner and immaturity, insecure, childish. - The
fact that this man in France today, thinks very differently (in Germany:
but it is nothing), that the theory of the milieu, a true neurotic
theory, sacrosanct and almost scientific and has fallen to just
below the physiologists held belief that " does not smell good ",
this makes a sad thought. - One sees it also in England no different,
but that no man will grieve.

The Englishman has only two paths open to deal with the genius, and
"big man" abzufinden: either in the democratic nature's Buckle or
religiously in the way Carlyle's. - The danger, in times of great
people and is situated, is properly except the exhaustion every
kind, sterility follows them on foot. The big man is an end to
the big time, the Renaissance, for example, is an end. The genius
- in work, in That - is necessarily a spendthrift: ausgiebt that
it is its size ...

The instinct of self-preservation as it is displayed, and the
pressure of the outlet übergewaltige forces forbids him any such
care and caution.

It is called the "sacrifice"; it boasts his "heroism" is its
indifference to the own well-being, his devotion to an idea, a great
cause, a fatherland: All misunderstandings ...

He passes out, he passes on, it consumes itself, it protects is not
- with Fatalität, verhängnissvoll, involuntarily, like a river breaking
its banks about is involuntarily. But because such explosive owes
much, you have a lot of them on the other hand, a gift, for example,
a kind of higher morality ... That is the nature of human gratitude:
it misunderstands its 45th .- The Wohlthäter criminals and what
it is used. - The type of criminals, this is the type of powerful
people under adverse conditions, a strong man-made disease.

He lacks the wilderness, a freer and more dangerous nature and form of
existence in which everything in the weapon and defense of the powerful
human instinct is to law. His virtues are from the company in Bann
done his liveliest shoots, which he brought has soon overgrown with
low depressive affects, with the suspicion, the fear of dishonor.

But this is almost the Recept of physiological degeneration. The Who,
what he does best, preferably Thäter, must secretly thun, with
long excitement, caution, shrewdness, is anemic, and because he
only danger, persecution, Verhängniss of her reaps his instincts,
his upside is also feeling against these instincts - he feels it
is inevitable.

The company is our tame, mediocre, blended society in which a man
pristine, the mountains from her or from the adventures of the sea
comes to criminals necessarily degenerate.

Or almost necessarily, because it giebt cases where such a person
is proving stronger than the society: the Corse Napoleon is the most
famous case. For the problem that exists here is the certificate
Dostoiewsky's irrelevant - Dostoiewsky's, the only psychologist
attached said that I had something to learn: he belongs to
the most fortunate circumstances of my life, more even than the
discovery of Stendhal's. This profound human being, of the ten
time was right, the Germans superficial low estimate, the Siberian
convict, in the middle of which he long lived, all serious criminals,
for which there is no return to society were perceived very differently
than he himself expected - roughly the length of the best, toughest
and werthvollsten wood, which is based on Russian soil at all
growing.

We generalize the case of the criminal: we are thinking natures,
which, for some reason, lacks public support, who know that they
are not considered wohlthätig than perceived to be useful, -
Tschandala that feeling that you're not the same as applies but as
expelled, unworthy, contaminating.

All these natures have the color of the Underground on thoughts and
actions, to them, than at Any such Bleicher, whose existence rests the
daylight. But almost all forms of existence that we now reward,
have formerly under these grave air half-lived: the scientific
nature, the artist, the genius, the free spirit, the actor, the
merchant, the great explorers ... As long as the priest was the
highest type, it was worth every way entwerthet man ...

The time is coming - I promise that - where he served as the
lowest shall be regarded as our Tschandala than verlogenste as
the indecent man kind ... I direct attention to how even now, under
the mildest of the regiment Sitte, depending on the earth, at least
in Europe, has prevailed, each set apart, every long, too long under
any unusual, obscure life form type that brings close the completion
of the criminals. All innovators of the spirit have a time Fahle and
fatalistic character
of Tschandala on the forehead: not because they felt it would be,
but because they themselves feel the terrible gap that sets it apart
from all conventional and parties in honor separates.

Almost every genius knows, as one of its developments, "catilinarische
existence", a hate, revenge and rebellion against all feeling, which
is already what is no longer ...

Catiline - the pre-existence-form of each Caesar. - 46 Here is the
view freely. - It can level the soul, when a philosopher is silent,
it can be love if it contradicts itself, it is a courtesy of the
detection of potential which lies.

They have not said fineness: il est indigne of grands coeurs de
répandre le trouble, qu'ils ressentent: only you have to add
that prior to the most unworthy not to be afraid of size also the
soul can be. A woman that loves, sacrifices his honor, a recognition,
which "loves", perhaps sacrifice his humanity, a God who loved,
became Jew ... 47 The beauty of no coincidence. - The beauty of a
race or family, their Anmuth and goodness in all gestures will be
prepared: it is equal to the genius, the final result of the work
of accumulirten sexes.

You have the good tastes have brought great sacrifice, you have
many things done to him, have left many things - the seventeenth-century
France is admirably in both - you have in him a Princip of choice for
society, city, clothes, had sex satisfaction , one has the beauty
of advantages, the habit of the opinion that the inertia have
preferred. Oberster guide: it's also against himself is not "let
go". - The good things are on the expensive Maassen: and always
applies the law, that whoever has it, is another than he who buys
it.

Everything Good is inheritance: what is not inherited is imperfect, is
beginning ... In Athens at the time were Cicero's, of about expressing
his surprise, the men and young women are far superior in beauty:
but what kind of work and effort in the service of beauty had the
male sex daselbst for centuries on its own demands!

- One should in fact on the methodology here is not assault: a mere
breeding of feelings and thoughts is almost zero (- here lies the
great misunderstanding of the German education, which is wholly
illusory): one must first of the body talk.

The strict maintenance of major and selected sign a liability, only
to live with people who do not "let go", simply perfect, to much
and to be elected in two or three genders is all internalized. It is
vital on the Loos of people and humanity, that the cultivation on the
right is the beginning - not the "soul" (as the fateful superstition
of the priests and half-priests was): the right place is the body
which gesture, the diet, physiology, and the rest follows ...
The Greeks remain the first-culture event of the story - they knew
that they, that what North; the Christenthum, which despised the
body, has been the biggest misfortune of mankind. - 48 Progress
in my sense. - Even I speak of "return to nature", although it is
actually not a Zurückgehn, but a Hinaufkommen is - up in the high,
free, even terrible nature and naturalness, such that with big
plays tasks, may play ..

To put it in parables to say that Napoleon was a piece of "return to
nature", as I understand it (for example, in rebus tacticis,
even more, as the military know the Strategic). - But Rousseau
- while actually wanted back? Rousseau, the first modern man, idealist
and Canaille in one person, the moral of "dignity" Nöthiger had
to lend his aspect bearable; sick before unbridled vanity and
unbridled self-contempt.

Again, this monstrosity, which is at the threshold of a new era has
stored, wanted to "return to nature" - where, again asked Rousseau
wanted back? - I hate Rousseau in the revolution: it is the
world-historical expression for this duplication of idealist and
Canaille. The bloody farce with which this revolution took place,
their "immorality", does little to me: what I hate is their
Rousseau'sche morality - the so-called "truths" of the revolution,
with whom she still works and everything flat and mediocre to be
persuaded. The doctrine of equality ... But there is no giebt
poisonous poison: for it appears by the justice himself preached,
while the end of justice is ...

"The same match, the unequals unequal - that would be the real question
of justice: and what follows, unequal never equal it." - That it to
the doctrine of equality so look around and certainly went to a
bloody, this "modern idea" par excellence, a kind of glory and fire
certificate, so that
the Revolution as a spectacle, the noblest spirits has seduced.

The last is no reason to respect them more. - I see only one, which
they felt, how it felt to be with disgust - 49th ...

Goethe Goethe - not a German event, but a European, a great experiment,
the eighteenth century to be overcome by a return to nature, by a
Hinaufkommen the naturalness of the Renaissance, a form of
self-overcoming of the pages of this century. - He wore his strongest
instincts in themselves: the Gefühlsamkeit the natural Idolatry,
the anti-historical, the idealistic, the revolutionaries, and Unreal
(- the latter is only one form of the Unreal).

He took the history, natural science, antiquity, insgleichen Spinoza
Hülfe, especially the practical Thätigkeit; he is surrounded with a
loud closed horizons, it is not triggered by life, he turned in. He
was not despondent and took so much as possible to keep that in
itself. What he wanted was totality; he fought against the dismantling
of reason, sensuality, emotion, desire (- deterrent in scholasticism
by Kant preached the antipodes Goethe's), he disciplinirte to
wholeness, he created the ... Goethe was, in the middle of an
unreal-minded era, a convinced realist: he said yes to everything
he had used herein, - he had no greater experience than that ens
realissimum called Napoleon.

Goethe concipirte a strong, highly educated, skillful in all corporeality
itself in the bridle off, before himself reverent people of the
whole scope and Reichthum the naturalness must dare to indulge,
strong enough for this freedom is the human tolerance , not from
weakness but from strength, because it is the thing the average
nature would go to reason, nor to its advantages need to know, the
people, for there is nothing more giebt forbidden, unless the
weakness, they are hot now vice or virtue ...

Such a spirit is freigewordner with a joyful and trusting fatalism
in the middle of the universe, in the belief that only the individuals
identified is that on the whole everything is redeemed and affirmed -
he no longer be denied ... But such a belief is the highest of
all possible faiths: I have him in the name of Dionysos baptized.
- 50 You could say that in a sense, the nineteenth century, all also
desired, which Goethe as a person desired: a universality in understand,
approve in an up-views can come from any, a verwegnen realism, a
reverence for all Thatsächlichen. How is it possible that the total
result is not Goethe, but a chaos, a nihilistic sigh, a
non-know-where-from-still-a, an instinct of fatigue, which in this
praxi continually pushes to eighteenth-century fall back ?

(- For example, as a romantic feeling, as altruism and hyper-sentimentality,
as Femininismus in taste, as Socialismus in politics.) Is not the
nineteenth century, especially in its exits, just increased
brutalized eighteenth century, ie a Decadence century?

So that Goethe not only for Germany but for Europe as a whole merely
an incident, a fine would have been free? - But one misunderstands
great people when they are from the perspective of a poor view of
public utility. That one can not benefit from them ziehn know, this
is, of course, perhaps to the size ... 51 Goethe is the last German,
before I did reverence: he would have felt three things which
I feel, - we also understand the "Cross" ... They often ask me what
I actually write German: nirgendswo I would read worse than in the
Fatherland. But who knows least, if I just want today to be read? -
Things in which free time trying their teeth, the form of the substance
in a small endeavor to immortality - and I have never been modest
enough, less of me to ask. The aphorism, the sentence in which I, as
the first master among Germans am, the forms of "eternity", my ambition
is, in ten sentences to say what everyone Andre says in a book -
what everyone Andre in a beech does not say ... I have of humanity's
deepest Book, which it owns, my Zarathustra: I give her about
the recently independent. - What I owe the Old 1.

Finally, a word about the world, access to which I sought, to which
I may be a new access had found - the old world. My taste, the contrast
of a tolerant taste may be, is also far from lock, stock and barrel
so to say, says he does not like yes, no or rather, on allerliebsten
nothing ... This is true of all cultures, this is true of books, -
it is also true of places and landscapes. Basically it is a very
small number of ancient books, in my life mitzählen the famous are
not among them. My sense of style, for the epigram as a style awoke
almost immediately in contact with Sallust. I have the astonishment
of my revered teacher Corssen not forget, as his worst Latins the
first type had Censur - I was finished with one blow. Urged to
strictly, with as much substance as possible on the reason for a
cold malice against the "good word", even the "good feeling" - it
errieth me.

It is up to in my Zarathustra into a very serious ambition after the
Roman style, according to the "Aere perennius" in the style for
me to recognize. - Ergieng no different to me at the first contact
with Horace. Until today I have at any poet the same artistic delight
had me from the outset a Horace Ode gave.

In some languages is that what this is achieved, not even wanting
to. This mosaic of words where each word as sound, as place, as
a concept, to the right and left and on the whole thing out his
ausströmt force, this minimum in size and number of characters, this
is achieved in the maximum energy of the characters - the All is
roman, and, if one wants to believe me, noble par excellence. All
the rest of poetry is to do something about Popular, - a mere feeling
loquaciousness ... 2 The Greeks I owe not a relative strong
impressions, and to bring it out even to say they can not be what the
Romans are. One learns not from the Greeks - their nature is too
strange, it is also unnecessary to demand that a "classical" effect.
Who would have ever learned to write a Greek! Who would have ever
learned without the Romans ... You do not turn me Plato On. The ratio
of Plato, I am a skeptic and depth has always been professional, except
in the admiration of artists Plato which scholars traditionally
is einzustimmen. Recently, I have here the judges taste raffinirtesten
under the old self on my page. Plato raises, it
seems to me, all forms of style confused, he is a first decadent
style: he has something similar on his conscience, as the cynik the
Satura Menippea invented.

The fact that the Platonic dialogue, this horribly complacent and
childish kind of dialectic, could act as a stimulus, when you never
have read good French - Fontenelle, for example.

Plato is boring. - Finally, I distrust in Plato in depth: I find
him so astray by all the basic instincts of the Hellenes, so
vermoralisirt as pre-existent-Christian - he already has the word
"good" as a top term - that I get from the whole phenomenon of Plato
rather the harsh word "higher dizziness or if one's preferred
listening idealism - as some would like to use another.

It has paid Theuermann that Athens at the Egyptians went to school
(or - with the Jews in Egypt ?...) In the big Verhängniss
the Christenthums Plato is the "ideal" ambiguity called Fascination
and the nobler natures of Alterthums made it possible, misszuverstehn
itself and the bridge to enter the "Cross" led ... And how much
Plato is still in the concept of "church", in construction, system,
practice of the Church! - My relaxation, my preference, my cure
from all Platonism was Thucydides, at any time.

Thucydides and, perhaps, the prince's Machiavell myself are most
utilized by the unconditional will to nothingness, and an effect
in the sense of reality sehn - not in the "reason", even less in the
"morality" ... From the miserable Schön Greeks in the dye's ideal,
that of "classical educated" youth as a reward for his high school
dressage in life davonträgt, kurirt Nothing so thoroughly as
Thucydides.

You have it line by line and round his mind so much as read his words:
it giebt so after a few thoughts of thinkers. In it, the
sophists-cultivation, to say the Cultur-realists, on her perfect
expression: these inestimable movement amid the allerwärts just
gonna break loose morals and ideal swindle the Socratic schools. The
Greek philosophy as the Decadence of the Greek instinct; Thucydides
as the great sum, the last revelation of that strong, strict,
hard Thatsächlichkeit the older Hellenes was the instincts. The Muth
reality differs from the last such natures as Thucydides and Plato:
Plato is a coward in front of reality - consequently he flees into
the ideal; Thucydides, has been in force, hence it also keeps things
in the violence ... 3 In the Greek "beautiful souls," "golden middle"
and other perfections auszuwittern, some of them the rest in size,
the ideal ethos, the high Einfalt admire - prior to this "high
uniformity," a niaiserie anglaise last but not least, I was protected
by the psychologist, whom I had in me.

I saw their strongest instinct, the will to power, I saw them tremble
before the unrestrained violence of this train - I saw all of its
institutions grow from Maass protection rules to protect themselves
against each other against their inner explosives to make sure. The
tremendous stress on the inside then unloaded in terrible and
ruthless hostility outside the municipalities mangled themselves,
so that the citizens of each city before himself would rest.

They had it Nöthiger, to be strong: the danger was near - they
lurked everywhere. The beautifully smooth corporeality of daring
realism and Immoralismus of the Hellenes is, is a North, not a "natural"
have been. He followed until he was not there from the beginning.
And with festivals and arts is also wanted nothing Andres as
top feel on top show: there are means to glorify himself, possibly
in front of you fear to do ... The Greeks on German philosophers manner
in accordance with their determination, such as the Socratic
Biedermännerei schools outcrops about using what was basically
Hellenic! ... The philosophers are the decadent Griechenthums of the
counter-movement against the old, to make the taste (- agonal against
instinct, against the polis, Werth against race, against the
authority of coming).

The Socratic virtues were preached because they the Greeks lost were:
irritable, fearful, fickle, allesammt comedians, they had a few too
many reasons to preach morality to leave. Not that it would
have helped little: but big words and attitudes are decadent as good
... 4 I was the first person to understanding of the older, still
rich and even overflowing Hellenic instinct, that wonderful
phenomenon seriously, the the name of Dionysus bears: it is only
explicable from a surfeit of power. Who goes after the Greeks, like
that of its deepest Kenner Cultur, now lives, as Jacob Burckhardt
in Basel, who knew immediately that this was something done:
Burckhardt said of his "Culture of the Greeks" a suitable section
of the said phenomenon.

To the contrary, so you can see the almost-amusing instinct
Armuth of German philologists, when they near the Dionysian come.
Hence it was
fitting that by Him Who is the natural Son, men should share this
likeness of sonship by adoption, as the Apostle says in the same
chapter (Rom. 8:29): "For whom He foreknew, He also predestinated to
be made conformable to the image of His Son."

Thirdly, the reason for this fitness may be taken from the sin of our
first parent, for which the Incarnation supplied the remedy. For the
first man sinned by seeking knowledge, as is plain from the words of
the serpent, promising to man the knowledge of good and evil. Hence
it was fitting that by the Word of true knowledge man might be led
back to God, having wandered from God through an inordinate thirst
for knowledge.

Reply Obj. 1: There is nothing which human malice cannot abuse, since
it even abuses God's goodness, according to Rom. 2:4: "Or despisest
thou the riches of His goodness?" Hence, even if the Person of the
Father had become incarnate, men would have been capable of finding
an occasion of error, as though the Son were not able to restore
human nature.

Reply Obj. 2: The first creation of things was made by the power of
God the Father through the Word; hence the second creation ought to
have been brought about through the Word, by the power of God the
Father, in order that restoration should correspond to creation
according to 2 Cor. 5:19: "For God indeed was in Christ reconciling
the world to Himself."

Reply Obj. 3: To be the gift of the Father and the Son is proper to
the Holy Ghost. But the remission of sins is caused by the Holy
Ghost, as by the gift of God. G. Eliot. - You are going to the Christian
God and to believe now, more so the Christian morals need to hold:
it is an English
consistency, we want the female morality a la Eliot not blame.

In England you have to be for every small Emancipation of theology
in a threatening manner moral fanatics bring honor back.

This is where the buses, you pay. - Andre For us it
is different.

If the Christian faith aufgiebt attracts you the right to Christian
morality under its feet. This is not bad by itself, you have to this
point, the English flat heads spite repeatedly's light.

The Christenthum is a system, together imagined and whole view
of things. Stops you from him a key concept, belief in God, edited
so it breaks down so that the whole thing: you did not necessarily
distinguish between your fingers.

The Christenthum presupposes that man does not know can not know
what good for him, what evil: he believes in God, who alone knows it.

The Christian morality is a command, and their origin is transscendent
it is beyond all criticism, all right to criticism, it has truth
only if God the truth is - it stands or falls with belief in God.
- If thatsächlich the British think they know it, "intuitively"
what is good and evil when they vermeinen consequently, the
Christenthum as a guarantee of morality is no longer Nöthiger to
have, this is itself only the consequence of the rule of Christian
Werthurtheils and an expression of the strength and depth of this
dominion: such that the origin of English morality has been forgotten,
so that the Very-Conditional their right to existence is no longer
perceived.

For the Englishman is no moral problem ... 6 George Sand. - I read
the first lettres d'un voyageur: like everything that comes from
Rousseau, wrong done, bellows, exaggerated.

I believe that this colorful wallpaper from the style, nor as the
rabble-ambition after generous feelings.

The worst of course remains the Weibskoketterie with masculinities,
with manners naughty boy. - How cold it must have been in all these
insufferable artist!

They moved on like a clock - and wrote ... Cold, like Hugo and Balzac,
like all romantics, as soon as she writes!

And how complacent they may have dagelegen, this fertile writing-cow,
the little German in the bad sense
to him, the same Rousseau himself, her master, and in any case
until the decline of French taste was possible!

- But Renan reveres them ... 7 Moral for psychologists. - No
Colportage psychology drive!

Never watch to see! The giebt a false appearance, a squint, a bit
forced and exaggerating.

Experience as an Experience-Do - the geräth not. You may not experience
itself after view, each view is because the "evil eye". A geborner
Psycholog guards from instinct to sehn to sehn, the same is true of
gebornen painter. He never works "from nature" - he leaves his
instincts, his camera obscura, the sieve and expressions of "if", the
"nature", the "experience" ... The General until he comes to
consciousness, the final, the result: he knows that arbitrary Abstrahiren
of each case not. - What is it, if you run it?

For example, according to the nature of Parisian novelists, big and
small Colportage psychology drives? It lurks like the reality of
that every night brings a handful Curiositäten home with ...
But we see only what comes out as - a bunch of blots, a mosaic
of best case, in each case something together Addirtes, restlessness,
colors Schreiendes.

The worst is to reach the Goncourt: they do not put three
sentences together that are not in the eye, the psychologist-eye tuna
easily hurt. - The nature and artistically presented is not a model.
It exaggerates, it distorts, it leaves gaps. The nature of
the accident. The studies "after nature" seems to me a bad sign:
it verräth subjugation, weakness, fatalism, - In this dust-loungers
before petits faits is unworthy of a whole artist.

See what is - it belongs to another class of spirits. to the
anti-artistic, the Thatsächlichen. You must know who you are ... 8
The psychology of the artist. - That it giebt art, so that some
tuna and an esthetic look giebt, this is a physiological condition
inevitable: the rush.

The noise must be only the excitability of the whole machinery have
increased: rather, there is no art. All so different yet related types
of the rush to have the strength: above all the noise of sexual
arousal, this oldest and most original form of intoxication.

Insgleichen the noise in the wake of all the great desires, strong
emotions come all, the noise of the feast of the competition, the
bravura, of victory, all extreme movement; of intoxication of cruelty,
the noise in the destruction, the noise under certain
meteorological influences, for example, the spring rush, or under
the influence of Narcotica at last the noise of the will, the noise
in an overwhelmed and geschwellten will. - The essence of
intoxication is the feeling of power and wealth increase. For this
giebt feelings we think of the things that one is forcing them to
take from us, they raped them - one does this operation Idealisiren.
Let us go from a prejudice: the Idealisiren is not, as commonly
believed, in a Abziehn or reckoning of the little ones, the unimportant.
A tremendous challenges main supplier trains is much more crucial,
so that the others disappear about 9. It is enriched in this state
everything from his own wealth: what one sees what one wants, you see
it geschwellt, pushed, strong, overloaded with strength.

People of this state transforms things until they reflect his power -
until they are reflections of his perfection. This must be in Transform's
A complete is - art. Everything of course, not what he is still
at its pleasure in itself, in the arts enjoyed the man than perfection.
- It would allow an opposing state imagine that a more specific
Antikünstlerthum of Instinks, - a way of being, which all things are
impoverished, diluted, consumptive made. And in That, the story
is rich in such anti-artists, those starved of life: with what
things are necessarily still take them out as they need light.

This is the case of true Christians, Pascal's, for example: a
Christian, who is also the artist would not come before ... It was
not childish, and turn me Raphael, or any homeopathic Christians
of the nineteenth century: Raphael said Yes, Raphael did Yes,
consequently, Raphael was not a Christian ... 10 What is the meaning
of what I have introduced in the aesthetic contrast Apolline-term and
Dionysian, both types of intoxication understood? - The noise stops
Apolline mainly excites the eye, so that the power of vision gets.
The painter, the sculptor, the epic poet are visionaries par excellence.
In the Dionysian state, on the other hand, the whole affective
system is excited and increased so that all of its means of expression
with a entladet times and the power of presenting, visual,
Transfigurirens, Transform, and all kind of facial expressions
while acting heraustreibt.

The essence remains the ease of metamorphosis, the inability not to
reagiren (- similar to some hysterical, which in any way Wink in
each role to occur). It is impossible for the Dionysian man, any
suggestion is not to understand, he sees no sign of emotion, he has
the highest degree of understanding and Errath instinct,
as the highest grade of art has Mittheilungs. He goes into
every skin, in every emotion On: he constantly transforms itself. -
Music as we understand it today, is also a total-arousal and
discharge of emotions, but only the remnant of a much fuller expression
of the emotion-world, a mere residuum of the Dionysian Histrionismus.
One has to enable the music as a special art, a number of purposes,
mainly the muscle still made sense (at least relatively, because in
a certain degree all rhythm still talking about our muscles):
so the man no longer Everything he feels, immediate annuity and
imitates term represents.

Nevertheless, the fact of the Dionysian normal state, in any case, the
primitive, the music is slowly reaching the same specification at
the expense nächstverwandten assets. 11 The actor, the mime, the
dancer, the musicians, the poets are in their instincts and to be
grundverwandt
One, but gradually spezialisirt and separated from each other -
even to the opposition.

The poet was the longest united with the musician, the actor with
the dancers. - The architect represents neither a Dionysian, Apolline
another state that: here is the big volition, the will of the
mountains, to the noise of the great desire of the art requires.

The most powerful people have always inspirirt architect, the
architect has always been under the power of suggestion.

The structure should be the pride of victory over gravity, the will
to power versichtbaren; Architecture is a kind of eloquence of power
in ways that soon talking about, even flattering, sometimes just
mandatory. The highest feeling of power and security, in which
the expression, which has great style.

The power that no more evidence Nöthiger has spurned it, to please
the hard to answer, with no witnesses to feel, without any awareness
of them is alive, that there is opposition against it giebt, which
in itself rests, fatalistic, a law under the laws of the talks as
a great style of it. - 12 I read the life of Thomas Carlyle's, this
farce will reflect knowledge and these heroic and moral interpretation
dyspeptischer conditions. - Carlyle, a man of strong words and
attitudes, an orator from North, the constant desire for a strong
faith agaçirt and the feeling of inability to (- is a typical
romantic!).

The desire for a strong faith is not the evidence of a strong faith,
rather the opposite Theil. Did it, so can you look at the beautiful
luxury of skepticism permit: one is safe enough, solid enough,
enough to bind.

Carlyle stunned by something in the fortissimo of his veneration for
people with strong faith and his Wuthe against the less simple:
it requires the noise.

A consistent passionate dishonesty against itself - that is his
proprium, and so it remains interesting. - Of course, in England is
because he admires his honesty ... Well, this is English, and
considering that the people of England A complete cannot, even
cheap, and not only understandable. Basically Carlyle is an English
atheist, his honor is examined, it is not to be. 13
Emerson. - Much more enlightened, tail of, many, raffinirter as
Carlyle, above all, happier ... One such, who just instinctively
nourishes of Ambrosia, which is the indigestible in the things behind.
Carlyle held against a man of taste. - Carlyle, who loved him very
much, nevertheless said of him, "he giebt not enough for us to
bite": what I said might be right, but not to the detriment of
Emerson's. - Emerson has those kind and witty hilarity, which
entmuthigt all seriousness, he knows it is not bad, how old he was
and how young he still will be - it could be a word with Lope de
Vega's say: "yo me sucedo a mi mismo ".

His spirit always finds reasons to be satisfied and even grateful to
be, and sometimes he wanders the cheerful Transscendenz that
Biedermann's, by a love tryst tamquam re bene GESTA returned. "Ut
desint vires, he said, grateful laudanda tamen est voluptas." -
14 anti-Darwin. - As for the famous battle to life, it seems to me
he once claimed more than being proven.

He comes, but as an exception, the total aspect of life is not the
Nothlage, the hunger situation, rather Reichthum, the exuberance,
even the absurd waste - where fighting is fighting is about power ...
One should not Malthus with nature confused. - Put yourself but
it giebt this fight - and in That, he comes before - so unfortunately
he is running as the vice from Darwin's school desires, as one might
wish it should: namely, to the detriment of the strong, the privileged,
the fortunate exceptions.

The genera do not grow in perfection: the weak are always on the
strong Lord, - that's what makes them great are the numbers, they
are also wiser ... Darwin has forgotten the spirit of (- that's
English!), The weak have more spirit ... You must have Nöthiger mind
to mind to get - you will lose it if it no longer has Nöthiger. Who
has the strength, the spirit is entschlägt (- "then let go! Thinking
today in Germany - the kingdom of us must
remain under "...).

I understand the spirit, as you see the caution, patience, the List,
the adjustment, the great self-control and everything that is mimicry
(the latter belongs to a large portion of the so-called virtue).
15-Casuistik psychologists. - This is a human nature: what he
actually studirt the people?

He wants little advantages over them erschnappen, or large - he is
a Politikus ...

That there is also a human nature: and it says that nothing would be
so that was a large "impersonal". Look for sharper! Perhaps he wants
to go one worse advantages: that people feel superior to them herabsehn
may no longer be confused with them. This "Impersonal" is a despicable
human beings: and the former is the human species, which is also
visually tell the mag.

He is at least equal, he / she is in. ... 16 The psychological cycle
of the Germans seems to me by a whole series of cases in question,
whose directory submit my modesty prevents me.

In one case, I am not at a large event is missing, to justify my
argument: I wear it after the Germans, about Kant and his "philosophy
of Hinterthuer," as I call them, out to have - that was not the
type of intellectual rectitude. - The Andre, what I might not hear,
is a notorious "and" the Germans say, "Goethe and Schiller" - I
fear they say, "Schiller and Goethe" ...

Knowing this Schiller yet? - It giebt worse "and" I have with my own
ears, but only among university professors, is "Schopenhauer and
Hartmann" 17 The spiritual man, provided that they are Muthig, also
experience by far the most painful tragedies : but why they honor life,
because they are its biggest opponents to oppose it. 18 To the
"intellectual conscience". - Nothing seems to me today seltner
than the real hypocrisy.

My suspicion is great that this plant the soft air of our culture
is not beneficial. The hypocrisy belongs in the era of strong faith:
where you do not stop at Nöthiger, another faith to bear on the
show, letting go of the belief that you had. Today it is happening,
or what is normal, it still defines a second faith - honestly,
you remain in any case. Without doubt, today a much larger number of
possible convictions than formerly possible, that is allowed, which
means harmless. It requires tolerance against itself - the tolerance
against itself by several beliefs: they are living together
tolerated - they are careful, as all the world today, to compromittiren.
What compromittirt you today? If one has Consequenz. If one goes in a
straight line. If one is less than fünfdeutig. If one really is
... My big fear is that modern humans for some truck is simply
too convenient: so they almost extinct. Everything evil that caused
by the strong will - and perhaps giebt is no evil without strength
of will - degenerates in our balmy air, to virtue ...

The few hypocrites whom I met, made after the hypocrisy: they were,
as nowadays almost every tenth person, an actor. - 19 Beautiful and
ugly. - Nothing is related, shall we say limited, as our sense
of beauty. Who is freed from the desire of the people on the human
mind would immediately lose ground under its feet.

The "beauty itself" is merely a word, not even a word. The beauty is
the human being as Maass of perfection; in. selected cases it is
pray to. A genus can not be otherwise in such a way as to be alone
to say yes.

Your lowest instincts of self preservation and self-expansion, still
radiates in such Sublimitäten
from.

The man believes the world itself overwhelmed with beauty - he
forgets that as their cause.

He has presented them with beauty, ah! only with a very human-allzumenschlichen
beauty ....

Basically the man is reflected in the things that he considers everything
beautiful, which gave him back his image: the Urtheil "beautiful"
is its genus vanity .... namely the skeptics may be a little suspicion
in the question's ear whisper: is so that the world really beautifies
that very person she is beautiful? He has humanised, that is
everything. But nothing, nothing guarantees us that the very man
the model of beauty abgäbe. Who knows how he is in the eyes of a
senior judge excludes taste?

Perhaps daring? Perhaps even amusing? perhaps a little arbitrary? ...
"Oh, Dionysus, Göttlicher why you put me on the ears?" Ariadne once
asked for a dialogue on that famous philosophical Naxos their lovers.
"I think a kind of humor in your ears, Ariadne: why are they
not even longer?"

20 Nothing is beautiful, only man is beautiful: on this rests Naivetät
all aesthetics, it is the first truth. Joining us now even the second
this: Nothing is more ugly than the degenerate man, - that
is the realm of aesthetic Urtheils surrounded. - Physiologically
after expected weakens and saddens all the ugly people. It
reminds him of decay, danger, impotence; thatsächlich while it
loses force.

You can see the effect of ugliness with the dynamometer measured.
Where the person is depressed at all, because he senses the proximity
of something "ugly". His feeling of power, his will to power, his
courage, his pride - which coincides with the ugly, which increases
with the beautiful ... In one case as in others we make a conclusion:
the premises are in tremendous abundance in aufgehäuft
instincts. The ugly is understood as a symptom of the Wink and
Degenerescenz: what Degenerescenz remotely reminiscent of the works
in us the Urtheil "ugly".

Any signs of exhaustion, of heaviness, of age, fatigue, any bondage,
as convulsions, as paralysis, especially the smell, the color, the
shape of the resolution, of putrefaction, even in the last dilution
to the symbol - All the calls have the same reaction, which Werthurtheil
"ugly". A hate that jumps out: Who hates da man? But there is no doubt:
the decline of his type. He hates because of the deepest instincts of
the genus published in this hatred is shudder, caution, depth,
Fernblick, - it is the deepest hatred, it giebt. To him the art
is deeply ... 21 Schopenhauer. Schopenhauer, the last German, the
consideration (of a European event like Goethe, like Hegel, like
Heinrich Heine, and not merely a local, a "national"), is a
psychologist for a case the first order: namely, as a malignant
ingenious attempt in favor of a nihilistic Plot-Abwerthung of life
is precisely the counter-instances, the big Selbstbejahungen of the
"will to life", the Exuberanz forms of life into the field to lead.
He has, in turn, the artist, the heroism, the genius, the beauty,
the great compassion, the intelligence, the will to truth, the
tragedy as a consequence of phenomena of "negative" or the negation
of the-means "will" interpretirt -- the greatest psychological
counterfeiting, which it billed the Christenthum, in the history
giebt.

Zugesehn Specifically, he is merely the heir of the Christian
interpretation: only that he also rejected by the Christenthum, the
big-Cultur Thatsachen of humanity in a Christian, that is nihilistic
sense of well-known hot (- namely as a means to "salvation" than the
pre-"salvation", as Stimulantia the need for "salvation" ...) 22
I'll have a single case. Schopenhauer speaks of beauty with a
schwermüthigen Gluth, - last reason why? Because he sees her as a
bridge, where people continue to arrive, or get thirsty, go to ... She
is his salvation from the "willingness" on moments - it attracts
to salvation for ever ...

In particular, he praises it as Erlöserin of "hot spots" of the will
"of sexuality - in the beauty he sees the witness denies driving ...
Strange saint! Eventually someone contradicts you, I fear it is
nature. Why giebt there is beauty in sound, color, scent, rhythmic
movement in nature?

What drives the beauty out - fortunately it also contradicts a
philosopher. No lesser authority than that of the divine Plato (- as
Schopenhauer himself calls him) holds a different set up: that all
beauty to procreation incentives - that this is the proprium of its
effect was of sensual's up in mental ... 23 Plato goes on.

He says with an innocence, to which one must be Greek and not "Christian"
that is no Platonic philosophy would be if it were not so beautiful
youths in Athens were: the sight of which it is only what the soul of
the philosopher
into a erotic frenzy mode and let her no rest until they are the
seeds of all things high in such a beautiful earth hinabgesenkt have.

Also a strange saint!

- You trust his ears do not set themselves that Plato believed.
At least one erräth that in Athens philosophirt was different,
especially in public.

And hence, even in the people from whom Christ
was to be born, God appointed signs of holiness, which began in
Abraham, who was the first to receive the promise of Christ, and
circumcision, as a sign that the covenant should be kept, as is
written (Gen. 17:11).
_______________________

QUESTION 5

OF THE PARTS OF HUMAN NATURE WHICH WERE ASSUMED
(In Four Articles)

We must now consider the assumption of the parts of human nature; and
under this head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the Son of God ought to have assumed a true body?

(2) Whether He ought to have assumed an earthly body, i.e. one of
flesh and blood?

(3) Whether He ought to have assumed a soul?

(4) Whether He ought to have assumed an intellect?
_______________________

FIRST ARTICLE [III, Q. 5, Art. 1]

Whether the Son of God Ought to Have Assumed a True Body?

Objection 1: It would seem that the Son of God did not assume a true
body. For it is written (Phil. 2:7), that He was "made in the
likeness of men." But what is something in truth is not said to be in
the likeness thereof. Therefore the Son of God did not assume a true
body.

Obj. 2: Further, the assumption of a body in no way diminishes the
dignity of the Godhead; for Pope Leo says (Serm. de Nativ.) that "the
glorification did not absorb the lesser nature, nor did the
assumption lessen the higher." But it pertains to the dignity of God
to be altogether separated from bodies. Therefore it seems that by
the assumption God was not united to a body.

Obj. 3: Further, signs ought to correspond to the realities. Give me
my long sword, he! Lady Capulets. Krüke A, a Krüke - what
do you do with a sword? Capulets. My sword, I say, here comes the
old Montague, and wave to me with his blade under the nose -
(The Old Montague and Lady Montague.) Montague. Capulets You are not
worthy - I do not stop, let me go! Lady Montague.

You should not walk me to stir in order to find an enemy. (The Prince
of Verona with his entourage occurs, is enormously angry about this
nonsense, throwing the Old beyden before that they their families
because of enmity-Verona dreymal already in turmoil gesezt, prohibits
them Bey death Streamline the streets not to worry, and occurs only
after they divorced , again.)

Zweyte Scene. (The old Montague, Lady Montague, Benvolio and stay back.)
Lady. Who was this old trade again on the move? Talk, nephew, war't
her dabey how he angieng? Benvolio. Here, I found the opposite
Theil your servant, and Eurig to deal with each other herumschlugen,
as I came, I brought them from each other: In the nemlichen
Augenblik came the fiery Tybalt with gezognem sword, which
he under threat challenges swung over my head, and thus on the
winds zuhieb, the least asked about his painting, that she even
auszischten. As we were now at each other, it came more and more people
and challenged to beyden pages until the prince came to us and from
each other sezte. Lady. O where is Romeo? Have you never seen him
today? I am quite glad that he does not Bey Schlägerey this was.
Benvolio. Madam, an hour anyway the sun * aufgieng, drove me a
troubled Gemüth up, and before the city going, and because I met
on the west side of the City euern son under a lonely course of
Egypt and fig trees. I went up to him, but he was hardly aware of me,
so he slipped into the dense woods. I urtheilte from his Gemüths-state
after the mine, (because we are inwardly never more jobs than when
we are looking for solitude,) and instead of pursuing him, my thoughts
went to, and was so pleased that he had evaded me, as he himself
-* (ed in the original: "Eh, the beloved sun through the golden
window of the East had seen."

It is not easy, as a allzuwörtliche Übersezung the Shakespear ridiculous
to make, as the Lord of Voltaire recently with a Scene from Hamlet
made a sample, due to which we place a little closer to investigate.
However, still angered Mr Freron too much about these and other
age-author of the weaknesses of Zayre. He likes to have his
reasons, but the world urtheilt with kälterm blood, at least, the
British, who most want to know why they are on their Shakespear are
proud of the French poets are very easy to keep good that he (in
an age where he no longer felt strong enough to deal with the loot
he's Shakespear declined to boast) it was his pleasure, by a
school-boy's regular ape the madmen to play with him, and thus the
least Publico just so much fun to make as he himself of such a
childish Kurzweil can only ever have.)

Montague. Even some of the morning, he is seen there, as he with his
fresh Morgenthau Thränen, and the morning clouds with tieffen sigh
increased, but hardly captures everything gladdening sun, the Far
East, the curtains pull away from Bette auroras, so sneaks
schwermüthige the young man by the light home and kerkert in his
room, closed his window, close the beautiful daylight out,
and makes itself a erkünstelte night.
For the Apostle says (1 Cor. 15:41): "The first
man was of the earth, earthy; the second man from heaven, heavenly."
But the first man, i.e. Adam, was of the earth as regards his body,
as is plain from Gen. 1. Therefore the second man, i.e. Christ, was
of heaven as regards the body.

Obj. 2: Further, it is said (1 Cor. 15:50): "Flesh and blood shall
not [Vulg.: 'cannot'] possess the kingdom of God." But the kingdom of
God is in Christ chiefly. Therefore there is no flesh or blood in
Him, but rather a heavenly body.

Obj. 3: Further, whatever is best is to be attributed to God. but as
the sword in the hands of a freedom hero like the saber, which the
satellite of the tyrants armed. despot his governance of the
animal-related subjects from the horrors he has quite a despot;
shattered by the terror the enemies of freedom, and their have a
founder of the Republic no less right.

The revolutionary government is the despotism of liberty against
tyranny. Mercy with the royalists! call certain people. Mercy on
villains? No! Mercy for the innocent, mercy for the weak, mercy for
the unfortunate, mercy for humanity, only the peaceful citizens
deserve from the protection of society.

In a Republic only republicans are citizens; royalists are strangers
and enemies. The oppressors of humanity punish is mercy, forgive
them, is barbarism. All signs of a false sensibility seem to me to
sigh, what to England or Oestreich fly. But it is not satisfied,
the arm to disarm the people, look, nor the sacred sources of its
power through the truck to poison. This is the finest, most
dangerous and repulsive The attack on freedom. Only the infernal
Machiavellismus but - no! I do not want to say that such a plan in
the brains of a human being would have to be hatched! It may happen
involuntarily, but the intent is not important, the effect remains
the same, the danger is equally great! The truck is the Kainszeichen
of Aristokratismus. In a republic, it is not only a moral but a political
crime, and the vicious is the political enemy of freedom, is its so
dangerous, the greater the services, which he apparently proved
it. The most dangerous people is the one who easily a dozen red caps
consumed as a good act achieves. You will easily understand me,
if you think of people who otherwise lived in the roof bars and now
in limousines and go with former Marquisinnen Food and Baron
fornication drive. We may well ask: is the People's looted, or are
the hands of the Gold Kings were down when we legislature of the
people with all the vices and all the luxury of the former parade
courtiers do when we Marquis and Count of the revolution, women
marry rich, rich Gastmähler give play, servants and precious clothes
bear see?

We may well wonder if we have ideas, esthete and something good
Ton of getting heard. It has been recently on a barefaced way
Tacitus parodies, I could respond with Sallust and Katilina trave
from, but I think I have no lines longer necessary, the portraits
are done. No contract, no truce with the people who only plundering
of the people in need were obtained from this plunder with impunity,
hoping to perform for which the Republic was a speculation and the
revolution was a craft!

In horror set by the torrent of the examples, they are quietly looking
for justice cool. One should believe everyone saying to himself:
"We are not virtuous enough to be so horrible. Philosophische
legislators, you pity our weakness! I dare you not to say that I'm
vicious, I tell you so dear: do not be cruel, "Calm yourself, virtuous
people, calm down, you patriots! Tell your brothers to Lyon: the
sword of Law grids are not in the hands, which you have entrusted
to it!

- We are the Republic a great example. (General applause.) Many voices.
Long live the Republic! Vive Robespierre! President. The meeting
is canceled. Fourth Street Scene A Lacroix. Legendre. Lacroix. What
have you done, Legendre! Do you know who you are with your head busts
herunterwirfst? Legendre.

Some Stutzer and elegant women, that's all. Lacroix. You're a self-murderer,
a shadow of its original and thus killed himself. Legendre. I
do not. Lacroix. dächte I, Collot had spoken clearly. Legendre.
What does that make? It was as if a bottle of champagne spränge.
He was drunk again. Lacroix. Fools, children, and - now? - Betrunkne
tell the truth. Who do you think then, that Robespierre Katilina meant
to have? Legendre. Well? Lacroix. The thing is simple. You have the
atheists and ultra-revolutionary sent to the scaffold, but the
people are not helped, it is still running barefoot in the streets
and wants to make leather shoes aristocrats.

The Guillotine thermometer must not fall, even a few degrees, and
the Welfare Committee is his bed at the Revolution Square looking.

Legendre. What have I to create busts?

Lacroix.'s See you yet? You have the Contrerevolution officially made
known, you have the energy to Dezemvirn forced, you have led them
to hand. The people is a Minotaur, a week of his corpses must have
if he should not devour. Legendre. Where's Danton? Lacroix. What
do I know! He studied at the Medici Venus Eisch piecewise Grisette
in all of the Palais-Royal; it makes mosaic, as he says.

Heaven knows what element he is. It is a shame that the beauty of nature,
such as Medea, her brother, and they zerstückt into fragments in
the body has decreased. - We go into the Palais-Royal! (Both from.)
Fifth Scene Room Danton. Marion. Marion. No, let me! So to your
feet. I will tell thee. Danton. You could use your lips better. Marion.
No, let me once. - My mother was a wise woman, she always told me
that chastity is a beautiful virtue. When people came into the
house and some things began to speak, called me from the room go,
I asked what people have wanted, so she said to me that I should
be ashamed of me, she gave me a book to read, it must "I almost
always head over a few pages.

But I read the Bible as desired, because everything was sacred, but
there was something in what I do not understand. I want no one to
ask, I brooded over myself Then came the spring, it went a bit
everywhere around me before and I had no part.

I found myself in a suitable atmosphere, it almost choked me. I looked
at my limbs, I was sometimes as if I verschmölze twice and then again
in one. A young man came at a time into the house, he was handsome
and spoke often great stuff, I did not know quite what he wanted,
but I had to laugh.

My mother bade him come more often, that was us both right. Finally,
we saw no reason we can not well between the two sheets together,
as on two chairs were seated side by side. I found it more fun than
its entertainment and it was not that why you give me the lesser
and the greater shirk wanted. We did secretly's. That went on so
forth. But I was like a sea, which swallowed everything, and dug
deeper and deeper. For me it was just a contrast there, all
men are merged into one body. My nature was once so, because who can
forget it out? Finally, remember 'it's. He came one morning and kissed
me as he wanted to choke me, his arms schnürten to my neck, I was in
unspeakable anguish. Because he let me go and laughed and said he
had almost a silly string made, I should just keep my dress and need
it, it would have already removed himself, he wanted me the fun is
not spoiled before the time, it would be the only thing I had.
Then he went and I again knew not what he wanted. In the evening I
sat at the window, I am very irritable and hanging with everything
around me just by a feeling together, and I sank into the waves
of Abendröte. Then came a bunch down the road, the children ran ahead,
the women watched from the windows. I looked down, they carried him
in a basket over the moon shone on his pale forehead, his curls
were damp, he had drowned. I had to cry. - That was the only break
in my education. The other people on Sundays and days, they
work six days and pray on the seventh, they are every year on her
birthday once stirred and think every year on New Year once. I understand
nothing of it: I know of no sales, no change. I'm always just one,
a continuous tendons and Grasp, a glow, a stream. My mother is against
Gram died, the people have with your fingers at me. That is
stupid. It runs on one out of what one has his delight in bellies,
Christ pictures, flowers or children's toys, it's the same feeling;
who most enjoys prays the most. Danton. Why can not I your beauty
in me, not quite grasp, they do not fully enclose? Marion. Danton,
your lips have eyes. Danton. I want to be a part of the ether, to
thee in my tide to swim to me on each of your beautiful body wave to
break. (Lacroix, Adelaide, Rosalie come failure.) Lacroix (still
stand in the doorway). I have to laugh, I must laugh. Danton
(unwillingly). Now? Lacroix. The alley is me. Danton. And? Lacroix.
On the street were dogs, a mastiff and a Bolognese Schoßhündlein who
are tormented. Danton. What gives? Lacroix. It occurred to me to grade
it, and have since 'I laughed. It looked from edifying! The girl
looked from the windows, and one must be careful and do not even
sit in the sun can. The mosquitoes are driving them else's on the
hands, which makes thoughts. Legendre and I have almost gone
through all the cells, which Nönnlein by the revelation of the flesh
hung in the Rockschößen us and wanted the blessing. Legendre is a
discipline, but he will start one month to get fast. As I bring two
of the priests inside the womb. Marion. Good day, Demoiselle Adelaide!
hello, Demoiselle Rosalie! Rosalie. We already had the pleasure not
long. Marion. I was quite tired. Adelaide. Oh God, we are busy day
and night. Danton (about Rosalie).

Egg, Small, thou hast indeed smooth hips get. Rosalie. Oh yes, we
are perfected daily. Lacroix. What is the difference between ancient
and modern Adonis? Danton. And Adelaide is decent, interesting, and
a spicy variety. Her face looks like a fig leaf, which they
themselves hold the whole body. So a fig tree as a viable road gives
a refreshing shade. Adelaide. I would be a Herdweg if Monsieur Danton
.... I understand, only not evil, my lady! Lacroix. To hear it! A
modern Adonis is not a boar, but of sows torn and he gets his
wound not the legs, but in the bars, and from his blood roses sprout
not clear, but shooting flowers on mercury. Danton. O let that Miss
Rosalie is a restored torso, which only the hips and feet
are antique. It is a magnetic needle: what the pin head rejects,
pulls the pin on the foot, the center is an equator, where each
one Sublimattaufe bekömmt, the line passes.

Lacroix. Barmherzige Two sisters, each serving in a hospital,
ie in their own body. Rosalie. Shame on you, our ears to make red!
Adelaide. They should have more life! (Adelaide and from Rosalie.)
Danton. Good night, her beautiful children! Lacroix. Good night,
her mercury mines! Danton. You take me, they come for their evening
meal. Lacroix. Listen, Danton, I come from the Jacobins.

Danton. Nothing more? Lacroix. The Lyoner leave a proclamation, they
thought it would be nothing left them, as in the toga to handle.
Everyone makes a face as he wanted to say to his neighbor: Paetus,
it hurts not! - Legendre called, they want Chali Marats and busts
dismantled. I
think he wants to face the red again make, he is completely out
of the Terror came, the kids tease him on the street at the Rock.

Danton. And Robespierre? Lacroix.

Fingerte in the public gallery and said: virtue must be approved
by the horrors prevail.

The phrase made me sore throat. Danton. Hobelt your boards for the
guillotine. Lacroix. And cried Collot obsessed that we should tear
off the masks. Danton. Since the faces will respond. (Paris occurs.)
Lacroix. What's Fabricus? Paris. From the Jacobins away I went to
Robespierre, and I demanded an explanation. He was looking for a mine
to make, such as Brutus, who sacrifices his sons.

He spoke generally of the duties, said the freedom to know he does
not respect that he would sacrifice everything to his brother, his
friends. Danton. It was clear, you need only the scale herumzukehren,
it is the bottom and keeps his friends the ladder. We thank Legendre
guilty, they say he has done. Lacroix. The Hebertisten are not yet
dead, the people are physically miserable, it's a terrible leverage.
The bowl of the blood may not rise if they are not the welfare
committee for the lantern to be, he needed ballast, he needs a heavy
head.

Danton. I know well - the Revolution is like Saturn, it eats its own
children. (After viewing a few:) But, they will not dare. Lacroix.
Danton, thou art a dead saint, but the revolution has no relics, it
has the bones of kings on the street and all image columns from the
churches thrown.

Do you think you would you leave to stand as a monument? Danton. My
Name! the people! Lacroix. your name! You're a moderate, I am one,
Camille, Philippeau, Hérault. For the people are weak and moderate
one, it proposes the dead Schneider stragglers from the section of
the red hat, the whole Roman history into its needle feel when the
man of the September against them was a moderate. Danton. Very true,
and Also - the people is like a child, it must break down everything
to see what it is. Lacroix. And also, Danton, we are vicious, as
Robespierre said, that we enjoy, and the people are virtuous, that
it enjoys not because it benefited from the work of the blunt
bodies makes it besäuft not because it has no money, and it does
not go into the brothel, because it Käs and herring stinks from the
neck and the girl before a disgust have.

Danton. It hates to enjoying like a eunuch men. Lacroix. They
call us thieves, and (to the ears prone Danton) it is between you and
me, so what truth halfway off. Robespierre and the people will be
virtuous. St. Just is a novel to write, and Barère a Carmagnole
tailor the Convention and the blood's wear and coats - I see
everything. Danton. You dream. They never had the courage without
me, they are not against me, the revolution is not finished yet,
they might still need me, they will suspend me in the arsenal.
Lacroix. We must act. Danton. This will be found. Lacroix. It
will find, when we are lost. Marion (to Danton). Your lips are cold,
your words have stifled your kisses. Danton (to Marion). So much time
to lose! That was worth the trouble! - (At Lacroix:) Tomorrow
I go to Robespierre, I will resent him because he can not remain
silent. So tomorrow!
Objection 1: It would seem that the Son of God did not assume flesh
through the medium of the soul. For the mode in which the Son of God
is united to human nature and its parts, is more perfect than the
mode whereby He is in all creatures. But He is in all creatures
immediately by essence, power and presence. Much more, therefore, is
the Son of God united to flesh without the medium of the soul.

Obj. 2: Further, the soul and flesh are united to the Word of God in
unity of hypostasis or person. But the body pertains immediately to
the human hypostasis or person, even as the soul. Indeed, the human
body, since it is matter, would rather seem to be nearer the
hypostasis than the soul, which is a form, since the principle of
individuation, which is implied in the word "hypostasis," would seem
to be matter. Hence the Son of God did not assume flesh through the
medium of the soul.

Obj. 3: Further, take away the medium and you separate what were
joined by the medium; for example, if the superficies be removed
color would leave the body, since it adheres to the body through the
medium of the superficies. But though the soul was separated from the
body by death, yet there still remained the union of the Word to the
flesh, as will be shown (Q. 50, AA. 2, 3). Hence the Word was not
joined to flesh through the medium of the soul.

_On the contrary,_ Augustine says (Ep. ad Volusianum cxxxvi): "The
greatness of the Divine power fitted to itself a rational soul, and
through it a human body, so as to raise the whole man to something
higher."

_I answer that,_ A medium is in reference to a beginning and an end.
Hence as beginning and end imply order, so also does a medium. Now
there is a twofold order: one, of time; the other, of nature. But in
the mystery of the Incarnation nothing is said to be a medium in the
order of time, for the Word of God united the whole human nature to
Himself at the same time, as will appear (Q. 30, A. 3). Julius Caesar
William Shakespeare Translated by August Wilhelm von Schlegel
individuals: Julius Caesar, Octavius Caesar, Marcus Antonius Lepidus
and M. Ämilius, Triumvirn after the death of Julius Caesar, Cicero,
and Publius Popilius Lena, senators Marcus Brutus, Cassius, Casca,
Trebonius, Ligarius , Decius Brutus, Metellus Cimber and Cinna,
Verschworene against Julius Caesar Flavius and Marullus, tribunes
Artemidorus, a sophist from a soothsayer Knidos Cinna, a poet,
another poet Lucilius, Titinius, messala, Young Cato and Volumnius,
friends of Brutus and Cassius Varro, Clitus, Claudius, Strato, Lucius
and Dardanius, Pindarus servant of Brutus, Cassius servant of
Calpurnia, wife of Caesar Portia, wife of Brutus senators, citizens,
guards, entourage, etc. The scene is a large part of the piece
through to Rome afterwards to Sardis and Philippi First Elevator First
Scene Rome. A street Flavius, Marullus and a bunch of people Flavius.
Packt euch home, their daily thieves!

away! Is this a holiday! What? know ye not that ye be Handwerksleut
to Werkeltagen Ohn Not a sign of handling allowed Umhergehn? -
What you trader? Speak! First Citizens. Well, Lord, I am a
carpenter. Marullus. Where is thy leather apron and thy degree?
What are you doing here in your Sunday clothes? - your friend, what
drives you? Second citizen. The truth gestehn Lord, against workers
held a fine, I just, as it were, piecemeal. Marullus. But what a
trade? Qu gradezu. Second citizen. A trade, sir, that I in good
conscience can drive, I hope. It is a bad change to improve.
Marullus. What a business, you scoundrel? what a business? Second
citizen. No, I beg you, Lord, let the patience you do not tear. But
if something breaks, so you just give into my hand.

Marullus. What do you mean? I am in your hands, you nase wiser lad?
Second citizens. Well, sir, so I can fix you. Flavius. You're a shoe
Flicker, is not it? Second citizens. Seriously, Lord, I'm an old
Wundarzt for Shoes: when it's dangerous to them, so I make them
healthy again. So nice people, than ever in leather underfoot, my
hands are at work accompanied. Flavius. But why are you in the workshop
is not what you lead these people through the streets? Second citizens.
My faith, Lord, to their shoes abzunutzen, so I re-work warrior.

But seriously, sir, we make holiday, to see Caesar and his triumph
over us to look. Marullus. Why you friends? What he has probably
won? What he defeated home to Rome, and she captivates for Zier
to his car? Your block '! it rocks! worse than unfeelingly! O hard
heart! arge men of Rome! Pompey Do you not know? How often grew their
hinan on walls and battlements, on towers, windows, even at
fire-eating, the children in her arms, and saßet since the livelong
day, patiently waiting, Till through the streets of Rome, Pompey
would? And it saht his car only from afar, Erhobt not a general
cheer, So that the
Tiber quakes' in her bed when she heard noise echoed hollow at its
shores?

And it now sets the party dresses?

And now it saves you a holiday from? And Now he spreads her flowers
on the way, The siegprangt Pompey on the blood?

overruling! runs in your houses, fall on his knees and prays to the
gods, the need to contact The ingratitude of this must come!
Flavius. Go, go its good citizens! and gathered for this offense your
poor brethren, it leads to the Tiber, weinet riverbed add to
your tears until their power, where he died on flat, the highest shore
heights of their kisses.

(the citizens.) See how the slag melt inside of her! They fade away,
silent in their debt. If your the way down to the Capitol, Here
I want to. Undressed then the images you see it adorned with
decorations. Marullus. Is this allowed? You know, it's the
Luperkalienfest. Flavius. It does nothing: let the trophies Caesar
No image behängt be.

I want to roam And now the mob wants to drive the streets. This
is also yours, where you can see it pushed. This growing feathers,
ausgerupft Schwinge The Caesar, the flight will inhibit him, He
who looks on human heights, all the rest of us knechtscher would
fear. (Both from.)

Second scene is a public space in an elevator with solemn music
come Caesar, Anthony, ready to race, Calpurnia, Portia, Decius, Cicero,
Brutus, Cassius and Casca; behind them a large crowd, including a
fortuneteller Caesar.

Calpurnia! Casca. Still there! Caesar speaks. (The music stops inne.)
Caesar. Calpurnia! Calpurnia. Here, my husband! Caesar. If the grad
Anthony you in the way to bet if he runs .-- Anthony! Anthony. Illustrious
Caesar? Caesar. Forget, Anthony, not in your Eil to touch Calpurnia,
for it is an old belief, infertile women, touching on this bet heilgen
run, unloading of the curse itself. Antonius. I'll remember it. When
Caesar says: "Do this", it's done. Cäsar. Commences; let nothing of
the customs of. (Musik.) fortunetellers. Cäsar! Caesar. He, who calls?
Casca. It is silent any noise: again, still! (The music stops
inne.) Cäsar . Who is there in the crowd that made me popular? The
music penetrates piercing voice, the "Caesar!" calls. Caesar speaks
inclined his ear. Fortunetellers. Nimm before the Märzen Idus you in
eight. Cäsar. Who is the man? Brutus.

A fortune-teller, he warns you before the Märzen Idus. Cäsar. Does it
to me before, his face let me sehn . Casca. Come out of the bunch,
man; occurs before Caesar. Cäsar. What do you say to me now?

Say again. Fortunetellers. Take the Märzen Idus before thee in
eight. Cäsar. He is a dreamer, let him go, and come. (A
march. All except Brutus and Cassius gehn ab.) Cassius. Will you
examine the history of at the race sehn? Brutus. I do not. Cassius.
I ask you, do it. Brutus.

I've got the game not feel like a part of me is missing from
the merry spirit of Antony, however, I wish you in your non-stop. I
leave you, Cassius. Cassius. Brutus, recently, I'll give you
eight, I think the look in your kindness,
not love, to me you used to.

At unwirsch and alien encounters in your friends who you love.

Brutus. My Cassius , do not cheat.

Do I look disguises To return the balance of my miens is only against
me alone. Recently I am tormented emotions of argumentative nature,
thoughts, only for myself clever, The shadows seem to throw my
demeanor. But let it not grieve my friends (Which one you must be,
Cassius), yet my eighth-free nature suggest otherwise, as that,
in war, the poor Brutus the other love forgets to do kund.

Cassius. That, Brutus, I misunderstood your displeasure. Therefore
chest buried here this draft is of great value, worthy thoughts.
Sagt, Brutus, can you face your sehn? Brutus. No, Cassius, because the
eye does not see itself as only in reflection, through other things.
Cassius. That's, And one complains much about Brutus, That you do not
have such a mirror, which you value your Verborgnen receded into
the eyes, so that your shadow your säht. I heard how many of the
first men in Rome (Only Cäsarn I take off), talking of Brutus, And
sighing under the yoke of these times, the noble Brutus wished
eyes open.

Brutus. In what ways, Cassius, your lures me that your I called in my
inside look at what is not in me? Cassius. So, dear Brutus, sends you
to hear. And as you know, you can yourself as well as non-sehn by the
reflection, so I want to, your mirror, you bescheidentlich of you
discover what you still do not know. And think no evil of me,
good Brutus. Wär I get a laugh from the crowd, my heart I maintains
Alltagsschwüre by each new Beteurer auszubieten, if you know that I
Human streichle finds it heart and then they lästre, or if you know
that when I treat myself with the whole crowd like fraternize, then
beware of me. (trumpets and screaming joy.) Brutus. What does
this cheer? What I fear, the people elect the king Cäsarn. Cassius.'s
Your Fear? That would be yes, you want it do not like. Brutus. No,
Cassius, do not like, but I loved him.

But why do you here me so long? What is it that you want to
trust me? Is it something that serves the common good, Where honor
before an eye, death before the other, And both I see the same courage.
The gods be favorable to me, as I loved honor more than before the
death of me shy.

Cassius. I know that virtue resides in you, Sogut I know your äußres
personable. Cheers! Honor is the content of my speech. I do not know
how you and other people think of this life, me, for myself, it would
be so kind, not be there, than to live in fear of a being like
myself, I Caesar came as freely to the world, so you; Sogut We
feed us, we can both Sogut as he endured the winter frost. For once,
at a rough Stürm chen days, as the wild Tiber raged at her
shores, Caesar voice to me: " dare you, Cassius, now with me to jump
into the tide And zornge up there to swim? "- On this floor, dressed
as I was crashing into me And bade him follow, he's really doing
well. The stream roars' to us, we beat him with brave tendinitis,
threw him aside and hindered him with a chest of defiance. But anyway,
we selected the target, Rief Caesar: "Help me, Cassius! I would
decline." I, as Aeneas, our Ahn great, once flames of Troy on his
shoulders bore The old father, so from the waves Zog I tired Caesar.
- And the man is now increased to God, and Cassius is a poor creature
and must bend his back, and nodded only Caesar carelessly against
him.

When he was in Spain, he had a fever, And when the Schaur it arrived,
I remember His most quake: yes, he trembled, this God, The coward
blood lips took flight, His eye, whose glance the world bedräut lost
the shine, and I heard him groan.

Yes, this mouth, the listening was the Romans And in her book draw
his speeches, Ah, cried: "Titinius! give me to drink!" Wie'n
sick girl. Gods! I am amazing how just one man so feeble nature of the
world proud abgewann head, And took the palm alone. (Jubelgeschrei.
trumpets.) Brutus. A new cheer, I think this is the honor of applause,
The man at the head of Caesar New accumulates. Cassius. Yes, he treads,
my friend, the narrow world Like a Colossus, and we little people,
we walk under his huge legs, and look around for a simple grave.

The man is sometimes his destiny Master: Not through the fault of the
stars, dear Brutus, With only own guilt, we are weaklings. Brutus
and Caesar - what is it in the Caesar, That one more than the name of
your talks? Write them together: all of your so nice, they talk, he
is the lips as well; weigh them: it is so difficult, confusing them
with: Brutus calls on spirits as soon as Caesar. (Jubelgeschrei.)
Well, on behalf of the whole of Gods, with what food nourishes
the Caesar to That he was so big? Time, you are dishonored. Rome, thou
verlorst the power of the heroic strain. Welch age probably
disappeared since the great flood, the not shone through more than a
man? Who ever said when he spoke of Rome, it further summarize
their circle only one man? now in Rome is indeed the area enough
Find't it is only a man einzgen O, we heard both of our fathers:
"Once
there was a Brutus, who are so fond of the old devil's yard as a
king would have tolerated Rome.

"Brutus.

That you love me, doubt 'I do not, what your urges with me, which
I probably ahn; What I thought of them and of the times, I declare
you in the future.

But for now, I would if I kindly ask you may no longer be driven.
What you said, Will I consider what you have to say, with quiet and
listen gelegne time, So high things to discuss, please. Until then,
noble friend, heed this: Brutus would prefer a village resident, as
is to be counted the sons of Rome in such a tough stand, as this time
we hang up is imminent. Cassius. I'm glad that my weak words in
Brutus just as much spark coaxed. Caesar and his train returned.
Brutus. The game is out, and Caesar returns back. Cassius. If we nahn,
Casca plucks only the English, he is after his mürr'schen kind you
say, What is of concern today occurred.

Brutus. I want to do it. But just look, Cassius, Caesar on the
forehead glows zornge Fleck, sehn gescholtnen The other servants
equal. Calpurnias Wang is pale, and Cicero look so red and fiery eyes,
As we have seen probably in the Capitol, senators when he denied in
the Council . Cassius. Casca will tell us know what's there. Cäsar.
Antonius! Anthony. Cäsar? Caesar. wohlbeleibte men to let me be
with smooth heads, and sleep well at night. The then Cassius has
a hollow look, He thinks too much : people are dangerous.

Antonius. O fear not, he is not dangerous, He is a noble man and well.
Cäsar. Wär he only fatter! - although I fear him not; But fear is
not alien to my name, I know of no one that I avoided as these tend
hagern Cassius. He reads much, He is a great investigator and
through the actions of the people intact, not a game he loves,
Like you, Anthony, does not hear music; He smiles rarely, and in
such manner as his mocking, despise his mind, The some which could
bring smile.

And such men never have peace as long as someone greater than sehn;
This is what makes it so dangerous. I'll tell you more of what stands
to be afraid, as I fear I am always but Caesar. Come to me on the
right, because this ear is deaf, And tell me truly what you think
of him.

(Caesar and his entourage from; Casca remains behind.) Casca. zogt
your jacket on me, do you want me to speak? Brutus. Yes, Casca, tell
us what to go tonight, That Caesar looks gloomy. Casca. You were
with him yes, were you not? Brutus. Then I will ask Casca not what
come to pass. Casca. Well, we offered him a crown, and when they offered
him, he pushed it to the back of the hand: so - and, because the
questioned people a cheer. Brutus. What they jauchzten to another
time? Casca. Now, even more. Cassius . jauchzten you three, yes; why
last? Casca. Now, even more. Brutus. he was offered the crown three
times? Casca. Oh, my faith, it's been, and he pushed it back three
times, each time gently than the previous times, and each sliding
jauchzten honest my old friends. Cassius. Who offered him the crown
at?

Casca. As well, Anthony. Brutus. Tell us the way, dear Casca. Casca.
well I can hang when you the way to tell: it was nothing but antics,
I was not sure. I saw the Mark Anton to offer him a crown - but actually
that's not a crown, it was so 'ne kind of headband - and as I
have said, he pushed it aside, but when he had all of my happy
Bedünken had.

Then he offered it to him again, and then pushed it back again, but
after my Bedünken he came hard on the finger again davonzutun.
And then he offered it to him for the third time on, he pushed it back
for the third time, and every time that he ausschlug, shrieked the
rabble and slaps in the rough fists and threw the sweaty night
caps into the air and gave such a stinking load of breath, because
Caesar the crown ausschlug that it almost choked Caesar would be,
because he was unconscious and fell down, and I ventured on my part
not to laugh, for fear I would like the mouth and the bad air.

Cassius . but still! I ask you. How? he fainted? Casca. He fell down
on the square, was foaming at the mouth and was speechless.
Brutus. That may well be, he has covered addiction. Cassius. No, she
has not Caesar. But you and I And our wackrer Casca, we have it. Casca.
I do not know what you think so, but I am sure, Caesar fell down. If
the people do not rag beklatschte and auszischte, depending on he
liked them or mißfiel, as they do with the comedians at the theater,
so I am not honest guy. Brutus. What says' he, when he came to
himself? Casca . egg now, eh, he fell when he realized that the
common Haufe are
delighted that he ausschlug the crown, so he tore out his doublet
and offered them his throat to cut - some drives I 'ne handling,
like I agree with the scoundrels go to hell, where I could not have
been taken at his word - and so he fell out.

When he again came to himself, he said if he did anything wrong or
would have said, so he Baets your Edeln, attach it to his evil.

Three or four woman who stood with me, cried out - "Ah, the good soul!"
and forgave him with all my heart.

But this is admittedly not much, if he would have killed their
mothers, it's just as well have done. Brutus. And that he went away
so morose? Casca. Yes. Cassius. Did Cicero say anything? Casca.
Yes, he spoke Greek. Cassius. What would he do? Casca. Yes, if
I tell you, I will you never again come before the eyes. But he
understood, smiled at each other and shook their heads. But what
concerned me, it was Greek to me.

I can assure you even more new tell: the Marullus Flavius and the
mouth is stopped, because they bind Caesar picture pillars have
cracked. Farewell. There were even more antics, if I only could
remember. Cassius. Do you want me tonight at dinner, Casca? Casca.
No, I'm already a failure. Cassius. Will you tomorrow for me to
eat lunch?

Casca. Yes I live and if you remain in your senses and your meal the
food verlohnt. Cassius. Well, I expected you. Casca. the Tut, lives
both well! (Ab) Brutus. What a glaring Bursch, this is now? He was
full of fire as my Schulgenoß.

Cassius. That he is now in execution Of any bold and noble enterprise,
Where he is already so awkward. This rough Accounting serves healthy
joke With him on the broth, it strengthens the stomach of the
people, Eßlustig his speeches to verdaun. Brutus. So it is. For now
I leave you, And tomorrow, if you wish to speak with me, I come to
you into the house, but if you want, So come to me, and I want you
expect.

Cassius. I will, until then does the world. (from Brutus.)
Well, Brutus, thou art noble, but I can see, your mind may be
worthy of its kind to be stolen. Therefore it is ziemt That Noble
Noble to always hold. Who is so tight that nothing can seduce? Caesar
is an enemy to me, and he loves Brutus, Brutus, I would But now
that he Cassius, He should not steer me. That night I gave him throwing
labels of different hands, as if they came from different people,
through windows, all full of great thoughts, the Rome of his name
has, where Caesar's dunkel On Ehrsucht should be interpreted.
Cäsar Then think of his close case; We will soon overthrow him, or
tolerate anything. (Ab) Third A street scene. Ungewitter Casca,
with gezognem sword, and Cicero come from different sides
Cicero. Good evening, Casca! Come forth from your Caesar? Why so
breathless and so distraught? Casca. Moves's not you, if this earth
staggers like a Solid weak pipe? O Cicero, I probably saw
storms where the winds Schelten knotgen the tribe split, and
I saw the proud ocean swell, rage, seethe, like when it comes to the
rich drohnden clouds, But never till tonight, never till now, I
Ching by a fire rain out. Either innrer war in heaven, where
not so irritating to the world by high spirits, the gods, our destruction
herzusenden. Cicero. Yes, saht your ever wundervollre things?
Casca. A slave to your most handsome of knows raised his left hand
up, they flared As twenty torches at once, and yet, not feeling the
heat, she stayed unversengt.

Neither did (since I use my sword is not a) When a lion Capitol me;
He gaffte strongly to me, sullenly went further and did nothing to
me. On a pile of one hundred well-being had pale women are urged to
disfigured by fear, and the oath that they are men with bellies
feurgen walking up and down the streets of cream. And yesterday the
bird was sitting the night even at noon on the market and screeches
and screamed.

If this miracle characters so much together, tell no one: "This
is the reason of which they are naturally" Because things worse
interpretation, I think, are the sky's the line on which they are
addressed.

Cicero. Certainly, the time is wonderful mood; But people often
interpret things their way, far away from the true sense. Cäsar Come
to the
Capitol tomorrow? Casca.

Yes, because he wore it on Anthony, known to you to do, he will
come tomorrow.

Cicero. Sleep well because , Casca! This turmoil is not being
outdoors.

Casca. Cicero, live well! (From Cicero.) Cassius occurs. Cassius. Who
da? Casca. A Romans. Cassius. Casca, after the vote. Casca. Eur ear
is good. Cassius, what a night? Cassius. The pleasant night for wackre
men. Casca.

Who ever saw the sky so angry drone? Cassius. Those who so
full of guilt Earth cream. I, for my part, I wandered through
the city, I'm throwing this in horror night, And so entgürtet,
Casca, as you see, Yeah, I breast bared the thunderbolt.

And when the flash blue to open winding Heaven bosom seemed, I offered
myself to the blasting of weather on the right objectives dar. Casca.
Why is your heaven so? It is the people in fear and trembling,
when the gods gewaltgen messengers such terrible warning, to scare
us, to send. Cassius. Casca O! You are dull, the life spark, the
glow, in Romans, missing you, you need him or not.

You look pale, and stares, taken from fear and sunk in amazement,
Des Grimm unfamiliar sky to look.
(13) How this grace stood towards the union?
_______________________

FIRST ARTICLE [III, Q. 7, Art. 1]

Whether in the Soul of Christ There Was Any Habitual Grace?

Objection 1: It would seem there was no habitual grace in the soul
assumed by the Word. For grace is a certain partaking of the Godhead
by the rational creature, according to 2 Pet. 1:4: "By Whom He hath
given us most great and precious promises, that by these you may be
made partakers of the Divine Nature." Now Christ is God not by
participation, but in truth. Therefore there was no habitual grace in
Him.

Obj. 2: Further, grace is necessary to man, that he may operate well,
according to 1 Cor. 15:10: "I have labored more abundantly than all
they; yet not I, but the grace of God with me"; and in order that he
may reach eternal life, according to Rom. 6:23: "The grace of God
(is) life everlasting." Now the inheritance of everlasting life was
due to Christ by the mere fact of His being the natural Son of God;
and by the fact of His being the Word, by Whom all things were made,
He had the power of doing all things well. Therefore His human nature
needed no further grace beyond union with the Word.

Obj. 3: Further, what operates as an instrument does not need a habit
for its own operations, since habits are rooted in the principal
agent. Now the human nature in Christ was "as the instrument of the
Godhead," as Damascene says (De Fide Orth. iii, 15). Therefore there
was no need of habitual grace in Christ.

_On the contrary,_ It is written (Isa. 11:2): "The Spirit of the Lord
shall rest upon Him"--which (Spirit), indeed, is said to be in man by
habitual grace, as was said above (I, Q. 8, A. 3; Q. 43, AA. 3, 6).
Therefore there was habitual grace in Christ.

_I answer that,_ It is necessary to suppose habitual grace in Christ
for three reasons. First, on account of the union of His soul with
the Word of God. For the nearer any recipient is to an inflowing
cause, the more does it partake of its influence. Now the influx of
grace is from God, according to Ps. 83:12: "The Lord will give grace
and glory." And hence it was most fitting that His soul should
receive the influx of Divine grace. Secondly, on account of the
dignity of this soul, whose operations were to attain so closely to
God by knowledge and love, to which it is necessary for human nature
to be raised by grace. Thirdly, on account of the relation of Christ
to the human race. For Christ, as man, is the "Mediator of God and
men," as is written, 1 Tim. 2:5; and hence it behooved Him to have
grace which would overflow upon others, according to John 1:16: "And
of His fulness we have all received, and grace for grace."

Reply Obj. 1: Christ is the true God in Divine Person and Nature. Yet
because together with unity of person there remains distinction of
natures, as stated above (Q. 2, AA. 1, 2), the soul of Christ is not
essentially Divine. Danton. The welfare committee has
decided my arrest.

I have been warned and offered me a refuge. They want my head, for my
sake. I am weary of Hudeleien. May they take him. What is it? I will
die with the courage to know that is easier than to live. Camille.
Danton, yet it's time! Danton. Impossible - but I had not thought
Camille .... Your inertia! Danton. I'm not slow, but tired ; my soles
burn me. Camille. Where are you going? Danton. Yes, if you knew!
Camille. Seriously, where? Danton. walking, my boy, take a walk. (He
goes.) Lucile. Ah, Camille! Camille. Be quiet, dear child, Lucile.
If I think they key -! My Camille! This is nonsense, gelt, I'm mad?
Camille. Be quiet, Danton and I are not one. Lucile. The earth is
wide, and there are a lot of things on it - why just one? Who's
should I take?

That would be terrible. What they wanted to even begin? Camille.
I repeat to you: you can be quiet. Yesterday I spoke with Robespierre:
he was friendly. We are a little curious, that's true, different
views, nothing else! Lucile. Find it on! Camille. We sat on a school
bench. He was always dark and lonely. I just
looked at him and sometimes made him laugh.

He gave me always shown great affection.

I'm going. Lucile. So fast, my friend?

Go! Come! Only the (she kissed him), and the! Go! Go! (From Camille.)
This is a bad time. It goes like this. Who could forget it out? We
must act. (Sing:) Oh, sheaths, scabbards ah, ah sheaths, Who has
the sheaths conceived? How come my grad in the head?

That is not good that it sets the stage for so finds itself. - As he
is also, it was me, as he could no longer be reversed and more
and more away from me, ever. As the room is so empty and the
windows stand open, as it would have a dead location.

I keep it up there is not enough. (She goes.) Fourth Free Field Danton
scene. I may not continue. I like this silence with the chatter
of my kicks and the wheezing of my breath does not make noise.
(He continues to settle, after a pause:) I was told by a disease to a
memory lose doing. The death should have something like this. Then
I sometimes hope that he might even stronger effect and a time to
lose everything. If that would be!

- Then I ran like a Christian, an enemy, that is my memory, to save.
The place should be safe, even for my memory, but not for me, gives
me the grave of more security, it creates at least me forget. It
kills my memory.

There, but my memory alive and kill me. I or you? The answer is easy.
(He rises and turns around.) I flirt with death, it is very pleasant,
so from a distance with the Lorgnon to flirt with him. Actually, I
have to laugh the whole story. There is a feeling of staying in me,
what I say: it will tomorrow be like today and tomorrow and beyond,
everything is like. This is an empty noise, one wants to
scare me and they will not dare! (Ab) Fifth One room scene It is night.
Danton (on windows). Because Will never quit?

If the light never ausglühn and never sound modern? Will's never quiet
and dark, that we are nasty to each other sins no longer listen to
and watch? - September! - Julie (calls from inside). Danton! Danton!
Danton. Hey? Julie (occurs). What you call?

Danton. Rief I? Julie. You spoke of nasty sins, and then
you moan: September! Danton. I, I? No, I did not speak, the thought
'I can hardly, which was very quiet, secret thoughts. Julie. You
trembling, Danton! Danton. And should I not tremble when the walls
talk? If my body is cut so that my thoughts are unsteady, umirrend
with the lips of the stones speak? That is strange. Julie. George, my
George! Danton. Yes, Julie, this is very strange.

I would not mind when it speaks the same. There are thoughts,
Julie, for which there are no ears should be. That is not good that
they are equal at birth, screaming like children, that is not good.
Julie. God get you your senses! - George, George, you remember me?
Danton. Egg why not! You're a man and a woman and then got my wife,
and the earth has five parts of the world, Europe, Asia, Africa, America,
Australia, and makes two sets of four. I am with your senses, du siehst
- not cried's September? No, you said so what? Julie. Yes, Danton,
through all the rooms I hear's. Danton. As I came to the window - (he
sees beyond) the city is quiet, all the lights from Julie .... A
child screams in the vicinity. Danton. As I came to the window -
screamed through all the alleys and zetert 'es: September! Julie.
You dreamed Danton. Barrel you! Danton. Dreaming? Yes, I dreamed,
but that was different, I want it like you say - my poor head is weak
- the same! So now I have: Under the earth I gasped in her swing,
I had them like a wild horse packed with huge limbs dug 'I am in their
manes and presses' ich her ribs, the head looking down, hair fluttering
above the abyss, so I was down. As I screamed in fear, and I
awoke. I came to the window - and hear 'I's, Julie. Just what the
word want? Why
this? What I've come into this?

What it stretches my bloody hands?

I have not beaten. - O help me, Julie, my sense is dull!

Was it not in September, Julie? Julie. The Kings were only forty hours
of Danton Paris .... The fortresses like the aristocrats in the
city Julie .... The Republic was lost. Danton. Yes, lost. We were
the enemy in the back can not, we would be fools had two enemies
on a board, we or they, the strongest triggers the weaker down -
is not cheap?

Julie. Yes, yes. Danton. We beat them - that was not murder, it
was war to the inside. Julie. You've saved the fatherland. Danton.
Yes, I would have been self defense, we had to. The man on the Cross
has comfortably's done: it must come annoyance yes, but woe betide
the one by which nuisance is coming!

- There must be, this was the must. Who wants to curse the hand on
which the curse of the fallen Do? Who has the required spoken, who?
What is what in us lies, hurt, steals and murders? Puppets we are, by
unknown forces at the wire drawn, nothing, nothing we ourselves! the
sword with which to fight ghost - you see not only the hands, like
a fairy tale. - Now I am calm.

Julie. Very quiet, dear heart? Danton. Yes, Julie, come to bed! Sixth
Street scene Danton's house before Simon. Citizen soldiers. Simon. How
far is it in the night? First Citizens. What in the night? Simon.
How far is the night? First Citizens. As far as between sunset and
sunrise.

Simon. Schuft how much clock? First Citizens. Look at your face, it is
the time when the Perpendikel under the blankets bud. Simon. We must
go! Fort citizens! We are responsible with our heads for it. Dead
or alive! He has tremendous links. I will vorangehn citizen. The
freedom to a lane! - Allows for my wife! An oak crown werd I leave
her. First Citizens. Eichelkraut A crown? It will be their every day
anyway enough acorns fall in your lap.

Simon. Next, citizens, you will you deserve to make the Fatherland!
Second citizen. I wanted the Fatherland made to us has earned,
over all the holes in our public body else people do, is not only in
our trousers received. First Citizens. Wilt thou that thy Hosenlatz
received? Huh, huh, huh! The others. Huh, huh, huh! Simon. Fort, gone!
(You penetrate Danton's house.)

Seventh National Convention, the scene A group of deputies. Legendre.
Setpoint because the battles of the deputies do not quit? - Who is
still safe when Danton falls? An deputies. What to do? Another. He
must be against the barriers of convention to be heard. - The
success of that product is safe, what should they oppose his
voice? Another. Impossible, a decree prevents us. Legendre.

There must be returned or an exception will be permitted. - I
will make the request, I am for your support. The President. The
meeting is open. Legendre (climbs the grandstand). Four members
of the National Convention are verflossene night have been arrested.
I know that Danton is one of them, the names of the rest I do not
know.

Incidentally, it may be who they want, so I ask that the barriers
before they are heard.

Citizens, I declare that: I think for Danton as pure as myself, and
I do not believe me any accusation can be made.

I do not want a member of the welfare or safety committee attack, but
causes me founded fear Privathaß private passion and want to snatch
the men's freedom which the greatest services have proved. The man,
who in 1792 France saved by its energy, deserves to be heard, he
needs to explain, if he was accused of high treason.

(Violent movement.) Some voices. We support the proposal Legendre. An
deputies. We are here on behalf of the people, you can give us without
the will of our voters did not break from our seats. Another. Your
words smell after corpses, you have it the Girondisten taken from
the mouth.

Will you privileges? The ax of the law hanging over all the
chiefs. Another. We can not allow our committees, lawmakers from the
asylum of the law to send to the guillotine. Another. Crime has no
asylum, criminals will find only winning one on the throne. Another.
Only thieves appeal to the asylum. Another. Only murderers know
it not. Robespierre.

The long time in this Assembly unknown confusion demonstrates that it
to great things. Today's decision is whether some men to victory
over the fatherland of which will bear. - How to upload your principles
deny far enough to present some of the individuals to grant that
ye yesterday Chabot, Delaunai and refused to ride home?

What is this difference in favor of some men? What I worry about the
Lobsprüche that one himself and his friends to donate? Just too
many experiences have shown us what is to keep them. We ask
not whether a man or that this patriotic act had done, and we ask for
his entire political career. - Legendre appear the names of those
arrested do not know, the whole convention knows them. His friend
Lacroix is underneath. Why Legendre seems not to know? Because he
probably knows that only the shamelessness Lacroix defend. He
named only Danton, because he believes that this name corresponds to
a privilege. No, we do not want any privileges, we do not want to
idols! (Beifall.) What did Danton before Lafayette, before Dumouriez
before Brissot, Fabre, Chabot, Hébert ahead? What do you say of
them what you do not even say he could? Do you have nevertheless
they spared? What he deserves a preference in front of his fellow
citizens? Approximately, cheated because some individuals and others
who did not cheat, it is lined, in the wake of his fortune and of
power in the arms to run?

- The more he has cheated the patriots who put trust in him, he must
more forcefully the severity of freedom friends feel. We want you
instill fear from the abuse of power, which it did itself.

It screams on the despotism of the committees, as if the trust which
the people of your gift and its committees to do this, not a sure
guarantee of their patriotism would be. It is, as you tremble. But
I say unto you, who in this moment trembles, is guilty, because never
trembles before the innocence of public vigilance. (General
applause.)

We also want to scare me, you gave me to understand that the risk of
them Danton further, even to me could penetrate. You wrote me, Danton's
friends gave me surrounded, in the opinion, which Remembering an old
connection, the blind faith in erheuchelte virtues could define me,
my enthusiasm and my passion for the freedom to moderate. - So
I explain because nothing will stop me,
and should also Danton risk are mine.

We all have a little courage and a little soul size needed.

Only criminals and ordinary souls fear their peers at their side
fall to see, because, if no group of more hidden accomplice to the
light of truth exposed.

But if it's like souls in this Assembly, so there are also heroic in
it. The number of rogue is not large, we have only a few heads to
meet, and the fatherland is saved. (Beifall.) I demand that Legendre
proposal will be rejected. (The deputies collect all of the signs
of generalized Beistimmung.)

St Just it seems in this Assembly some sensitive ears to give the
word "blood" may not be well tolerated. Some general considerations
may convince you that we are not cruel as nature and as the time.
Nature is calm and irresistible to its laws, the man is destroyed,
where he worked with them in conflict. A change in the components
of the air, a blaze of fire telluric, a wavering in the balance
of a water mass and a plague, a volcanic eruption, a flood of
thousands buried.

What is the result? A minor in the whole great little
noticeable change in the physical nature, almost a knock would be,
if not dead bodies were on their way. I ask now: is the spiritual
nature in their revolutions take longer than the physical? If the idea
is not as good as a law of physics may destroy what it opposes?

If ever an event which the whole design of the moral nature, that is,
of humanity, umändert, not through the blood may go? The spirit world
is served in the intellectual spheres of our arms, just as it is
in the physical volcanoes and floods of water needed.

What is it, whether participating in a disease or die in the revolution?
The steps of humanity are slow, you can count only after centuries,
behind every lie the graves of generations. The Move to the
simplest inventions and principles has given millions their lives,
which died on the road. Is it not simply that at a time when the course
of history is faster, even more people come out of breath? We close
fast and simple: Since all under the same conditions are created,
so are all the same, the differences settled, what nature itself
has made, it must therefore any benefits and should therefore have
no privileges, neither an individual nor a smaller or larger class
of individuals. - Each element in the reality of this proposition
has applied its people killed.

The 14th July 10th August, 31 May his punctuation. He had four years
of time necessary to enter the world body to be carried out, and
under ordinary circumstances he would have needed about a century and
would have been interpunktiert generations. Is it so surprising that
the power of the revolution in every paragraph, with each new bend
his corpses ausstößt?

We will have our sentences have to add some conclusions; be some
hundreds of corpses of us avoid it to make? - Moses led his people
through the Red Sea and into the desert, until the old verdorbne
generation aufgerieben had, anyway, he founded the new state.
Legislators!

We have neither the Red Sea or the desert, but we have the war and
the guillotine. The revolution is like the daughters of Pelias, they
zerstückt humanity in order to rejuvenate. The human race will come
from the cauldron of blood from the earth like
the waves of the Sündflut with limbs urkräftigen rise, as they
would for the first time created.

(Langer, sustained applause.

Some members raised the enthusiasm.)

All the secret enemies of tyranny, which in Europe and across the
earth the dagger of Brutus wear under their robes, we call on this
sublime moment to share with us. (The audience and the deputies agree
to the Marseillaise.) Act III Scene The First Luxembourg. A room with
prisoners Chaumette, Payne, Mercier, Hérault Séchelles-prisoners and
others.

Chaumette (plucks Payne on the sleeve). Listen, Payne, but it could
be, overcome it before me so I have a headache today, help me a little
about your conclusions, it is quite scary to me reasonable. Payne.
So come on, philosopher Anaxagoras, I want you katechisieren. -
There is no God, because: Either God created the world or not. If it
is not created, then the world has its reason in itself, and there is
no God, because God only by God is that he is the reason everything
Seins contains.

Now, however, the world is not God have created, either because the
creation is eternal like God, or it has a beginning. If the latter
is the case, then God must be at a certain time have created God
must, then, after an eternity rested once acted to ever be a change
in themselves have suffered the time the term can apply to him,
both of which are against the essence of God denies.

God can not the world have created. Since we now know very clearly that
our world or that I at least exist and that they referred to the
foregoing also grounds itself or must have something that is not
God, so there can be no God.

Quod erat demonstrandum. Chaumette. truthfully egg, which gives me the
light again, I thank you, thank you! Mercier. Hold, Payne! But if
the creation is eternal? Payne. Then they have no more creation,
she is one with God or an attribute thereof, as Spinoza says, then
God is in everything in you, ester value, the philosopher Anaxagoras,
and in me. That would not be so bad, but you must accept that there
is not much to the celestial majesty is, if the dear Lord in each
of us get toothache to have gonorrhea, buried alive, or at least
very unpleasant ideas which may have . Mercier. But a cause must
still be there. Payne. Who denies this? But who will tell you
because that was the cause of what we see ourselves as God,
ie as the A complete thought? Keep the world completely? Mercier. No.
Payne. How do you get from a unvollkommnen A complete action on a
cause close? - Voltaire dared nor with God than with the kings to
spoil, so he did it. Anyone who has no sense and it does not even
consistently use white or dares, is a Stümper. Mercier. On the other
hand, I ask: can a A complete CAUSE A complete effect, ie something
can create A complete A complete what?

Is not that impossible, because , created a never a reason in
itself can have what they do, as you said, belongs to the perfection?
Chaumette. silence you! Silence you! Payne. Calm yourself, philosopher!
- You are right, but because God has once created, it can only
create what Unvollkommnes, so he leaves the udder it is quite stay.
Is it not very human, God only as a lance to be able to think? Because
we are always busy and need to shake, to give us just always say to
you: we are! God, we must also need andichten so miserable? - Should
we, if our mind is in the essence of a harmoniously integrated
into the rest, sunk eternal bliss, just accept that they must
extend their fingers over the table and knead bread man?

from exuberant need love, as we very secretive in their ears saying.
Should we all just us gods sons to make?

And hence it was not
necessary for Him to speak several languages. Yet was a knowledge of
all languages not wanting to Him, since even the secrets of hearts,
of which all words are signs, were not hidden from Him, as will be
shown (Q. 10, A. 2). Nor was this knowledge uselessly possessed, just
as it is not useless to have a habit, which we do not use when there
is no occasion.
_______________________

EIGHTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 7, Art. 8]

Whether in Christ There Was the Gift of Prophecy?

Objection 1: It would seem that in Christ there was not the gift of
prophecy. For prophecy implies a certain obscure and imperfect
knowledge, according to Num. 12:6: "If there be among you a prophet
of the Lord, I will appear to him in a vision, or I will speak to him
in a dream." But Christ had full and unveiled knowledge, much more
than Moses, of whom it is subjoined that "plainly and not by riddles
and figures doth he see God" (Num. 6:8). Therefore we ought not to
admit prophecy in Christ.

Obj. 2: Further, as faith has to do with what is not seen, and hope
with what is not possessed, so prophecy has to do with what is not
present, but distant; for a prophet means, as it were, a teller of
far-off things. But in Christ there could be neither faith nor hope,
as was said above (AA. 3, 4). Hence prophecy also ought not to be
admitted in Christ.

Obj. 3: Further, a prophet is in an inferior order to an angel; hence
Moses, who was the greatest of the prophets, as was said above
(II-II, Q. 174, A. 4) is said (Acts 7:38) to have spoken with an
angel in the desert. But Christ was "made lower than the angels," not
as to the knowledge of His soul, but only as regards the sufferings
of His body, as is shown Heb. 2:9. Therefore it seems that Christ was
not a prophet.

And the truck. There are only epicureans, and coarse and fine, Christ
was the finest, which is the only difference that I am among the people
can bring out. Everyone acts according to its nature, ie, he does
what he wohltut. - Not true, incorruptible, it is cruel, so you
the paragraphs of the shoes to come?

Robespierre. Danton, the truck is at some times of high treason.
Danton. You can not proskribieren, not about heaven's sake, it would
be ungrateful, you 're guilty of it too much, namely by the contrast.
- Incidentally, in order for your words to remain, our tricks of the
Republic must be useful, we must the innocent not the guilty take.
Robespierre. Who says you then, that an innocent had been taken?
Danton. Do you hear, Fabricius? It died not innocent! (He is, in
Hinausgehn to Paris:) We must not lose time, we must show! (Danton and
from Paris.) Robespierre. (alone). just go! He wants the steeds
of the revolution on hold Bordell make, like a coachman's Gäule
trained, they will have enough force him to Revolution Square to
grind. Mir paragraphs come from the shoes! To take your words
to stay! - Halt! Stop! Where's that? They will say, his gigantic
form had too much shade thrown on me, so I had him go from the hot
sun. - And if they had legally? Is it so necessary? Yes, yes! the
Republic! He must go. It is ridiculous, as my thoughts supervise
each other. - He must go. Who in a mass, pushing forward, stop, makes
as good resistance as trät 'er her opposite: he is crushed. We will
ship the Revolution, not the shallow calculations and the muddy banks
of the People strand; we need a hand cut off, it dares to hold - and
when he grabbed with the teeth!

way with a company of the dead aristocracy and the clothes off their
leprosy has inherited! No Virtue! The virtue of a paragraph of my
shoes! On my terms! - Like always comes back. - Why can I not get rid
of the idea? He interprets with bloody fingers always there,
because there! I like so much about cloth wrap, as I want, the blood
is always through. - (After a pause:) I do not know what the
other is deceiving me. (He comes out of windows.) Snores on
the night of the earth and wallows in the desert dream. Thoughts,
desires, scarcely guessed, confused and gestaltlos to shy in front
of the day light verkrochen, now receive the form and garb and steal
into the silent house of dreams.

They open the doors, they see from the windows, they are halfway
meat , stretch the limbs during sleep, the lips murmur. - And is
not our guards a brighter dream? We are not somnambulist? is not our
actions as in a dream, just a clear, definite, performed? Who
wants to scold us for it? Performed in an hour the spirit of
the idea more action than the sluggish organism of our body in
years nachzutun interview.

The sin is in the thoughts. Whether the thought is indeed, whether
it's body after games, this is a coincidence. (St. Just
occurs.) Robespierre. He, who is
in darkness?

Hey, light, light! St.

Just Do you know my voice? Robespierre. Ah You, St.

Just! (A servant brings light.) St Just Were you alone? Robespierre.
Eben Danton went away. St. Just while I met him at the Palais-Royal.
He made his revolutionary forehead and said in Epigrams; he duzte
Without dealing with the trousers, the Grisette ran behind his calf
Dreiner, and people stayed stehn and were hissing in their ears,
what he had said. - We will lose the benefit of the attack.

Will you hesitate any longer? We will act without you. We are determined.
Robespierre. What do you do? St. Just We invoke the legislative, safety
and welfare committee at the solemn meeting. Robespierre. Much
circumstances. St. Just We need the vast corpse buried with decency,
as a priest, not as murderers, we must not mutilate, all its members
must comply with below.

Robespierre. Speak clearly! St. Just we need him in his full armor
and install his horses and slaves to his slaughter barrows: Lacroix
- Robespierre. Spitzbube a vested, been Advokatfirma Schreiber,
currently Lieutenant-General of France. Next! St. Just
Hérault-Séchelles. Robespierre.

A beautiful head! St. Just schöngemalte He was the first letter of
the Constitution Act, we have similar ornaments are no longer
needed, it will be wiped out. - Philippeau. - Camille.

Robespierre. The? St. Just (over to him a paper) The dacht 'ich. As
read! Robespierre. Aha, "The old Franciscan«! Nothing else? He is
a child, he has you laughing. St. Just read here, here! (He shows him
a job.) Robespierre (read). "This blood Messiah Robespierre on his
Calvary between two thieves Couthon Collot and on which he sacrificed,
and not sacrificed. The guillotines Betschwestern-like Mary Magdalene
and the bottom. St. Just as John is on his heart and makes the
convention with the apocalyptic revelations of the Master known,
he carries his head like a monstrance. "St. Just I want him to St.
Denis as his bear made. Robespierre (read more). "Should we believe
that the clean dress of the Messiah, the corpse's shirt of France,
and that his thin, on the Grandstand herumzuckenden finger guillotine
knives are? - And thou, Barère, which you said, at the Revolution
Square will coin beaten! But - I want the old bag does not
agitate. He is a widow who has half a dozen men and they had all helped
bury. Who can do what for this? That is his gift, he sees the people
for half a year before the death of the Hippocratic face. You
may also be corpses and the stench smell? "So also you, Camille?
- Away with them! Amazing!

Only the dead do not come back. Do you have the indictment ready? St.
Just makes it easy. You have the suggestions made at the Jacobins.
Robespierre. I wanted to scare them. St. Just I need only implement
the counterfeiters give the egg and the strangers from the
apple. - You die at the meal, I give you my word. Robespierre. Then,
quickly, tomorrow! No-long death struggle! I'm sensitive for several
days. Only fast! (From St. Just.) Robespierre (alone). Yes, the blood
of Messiah, the sacrifices, and not sacrificed. - He has redeemed with
his blood, and I deliver them with their own. He has made it sinful,
and I take the sin upon myself.

He had the pleasure of pain, and I have the pain of the executioner.
Who has more denying, I or he? - And yet what of madness in the
thought. - What we see is only after one? Verily, the Son of Man
is crucified in us all, we all wrestle in Gethsemanegarten in
the bloody sweat, but it redeems any others with his wounds. My
Camille! - You go all by myself - it's all desolate and empty - I
am alone. Second Act First Scene Room Danton. Lacroix. Philippeau.
Paris. Camille Desmoulins. Camille. Rasch, Danton, we have no time
to lose!

Danton (he dresses on). But the time will lose us. That is very boring,
always the first shirt and trousers then forget it and to the evening
and into bed again herauszukriechen morning and one foot always
in front of the other set, there is no waiver, as it should be
otherwise. This is very sad, and that millions are already doing it,
and that millions are doing it again, and that we are still on top
of two halves, which both do the same, so that everything is done
twice - this is very sad.

Camille. You speak in a childish tone. Danton. dying are often
childish. Lacroix. You rush you through your hesitation to
perdition, you pull all your friends with you. Tell the
cowards, that it is time for you to gather, both the call of the
valley as the mountains!

Cries on the tyranny of Dezemvirn, speak of daggers, go to Brutus,
then you will frighten the tribunes and even collect about you,
known as accomplice threatened Hébert!

You have to let your anger.

Let us at least not disarmed and humiliated as the shameful Hébert die!
Danton. You have a bad memory, you called me a dead saint. You had
more right than you even credible test. I was among the sections,
they were reverently, but how bitter corpse. I am a relic, relics,
and throws it on the street, you were right. Lacroix. Why did you let
this happen? Danton. It? Yes, indeed, it was my last boring.

Always in the same skirt running around and folds to the same draw!
That is pathetic. Such a poor instrument to be on a string always has
only one tone! - 'S is not to endure. I wanted to make me's convenient.
I have reached the revolution requires me to rest, but in a
different way than I thought. By the way, are based on what?

Our whores might still be with the guillotines Betschwestern-record,
otherwise I know nothing. It can be seen in the fingers
herzählen: the Jacobins have stated that the virtue of the day was
to call me Cordeliers Hébert executioner, the council is doing
penance, the convention - that would be a way! but there is a 31st
May, they would not show good soft. Robespierre is the doctrine
of the revolution, it must not be ausgestrichen. It was not. We do
not have the revolution but the revolution has made us. And if it
would - I would prefer guillotiniert than guillotinieren leave. I
got sick of it, why should we humans fight each other? We should be
set side by side and rest. It was a mistake, as we were created,
it's missing something, I have no name for that - but we will are not
mutually exclusive herauswühlen the intestines, what should we
Leiber the drum break? If we are miserable Alchymist!

Camille. Pathetic words, it would read: how long should the human
race in perpetual hunger to eat their own limbs? or: how long should
we shipwrecked on a wreck in indelible thirst each other's blood
from the veins suck? or: how long should we Algebraisten in the
flesh when searching for the unknown, forever denied X our bills
with shredded limbs write? Danton. You're a strong echo. Camille. Not
true, a pistol shot schallt like a thunderclap. Desto better for
you , you should always have with you. Philippeau. And France
remains his executioners? Danton. What is it? The people are very
comfortable with that. You have misfortune; you can ask for more
stirring, noble, virtuous or to be funny, or do not have to be bored?
- Whether at Guillotine or fever at the age or die! It is still
preferable that they occur at joints tendons behind the scenes and
can still pretty gesticulate away and hear the audience clapping.
That is very good and fit for us, we are always on the theater, even
when we least seriously stabbed. It is quite good that the lifetime
is reduced a little, the skirt was too long, our members could not
fill it .

The life of an epigram, which goes to everyone who has breath and
spirit enough for an epic in fifty or sixty songs? 's is time that
you no longer little essence of Zubern but from liquor drinking
glass, so you get but the mouth is full, otherwise one could hardly
few drops in crude vessel together women make. At last - I would
scream, that's me the trouble too much, life is not worth the work
that you make to receive it. Paris. To flee, Danton! Danton.
Taking the fatherland to the shoe soles with? And finally - and this
is the main thing: it's be not dare. (to Camille:) Come, my boy, I
tell you, they will not dare. Adieu, adieu! (Danton and Camille
from.) Philippeau.

As he goes out. Lacroix. And believe not a word of what he
has said. Nothing but laziness! He wants guillotinieren rather than
a speech. Paris. What to do? Lacroix. Heimgehn and Lucretia on a
decent case study. The second scene A promenade walkers. A citizen.
My good Jacqueline - I wanted to say grain. .. I want to: Cor ...
Simon. Kornelia, citizens, Kornelia. citizens. My good Kornelia
I was pleased with a Knäblein. Simon. Has a son of the Republic was
born. citizens. The Republic, which is too general, you could say.
Simon ... it's the straight, the individual must be to the general
public ....

Ah yes, says my wife, too. minstrel (sings). What it is what it
is all men Freud 'and Lüst'? citizens. Alas, with the names because
I do not even come into the pure. Simon. baptismal him Pike, Marat!
minstrel. In sorrow, in fear bemühn from early morning until the day
is over. citizen. I would like three - it is
but what with the number three - and then what useful and what is
legal and now I's: plow, Robespierre.

And then the third? Simon. Pike. citizens.

Thank you, neighbor, Pike, Pflug, Robespierre, those are nice names
, which makes beautiful.

Simon. I tell you that your breast Kornelia as the udder of the
Roman she-wolf - no, that does not: Romulus was a tyrant, that's
impossible. (Go over.) A beggar (sings). "A handful of earth and a bit
of moss ..." Men love beautiful women! First Lord. Bloke, working,
you can see from quite well-fed! Second Lord. There! (He gives him
money.)

He has a hand like velvet. That is outrageous. Beggars. My Lord, where
you have your skirt from? Second Lord. Work, work! You could have the
same, and I will give you work, come to me, I live ... beggars.
Lord, why have you worked? Second Lord. Fool to rock it. Beggars.
You have tormented you for a pleasure to have, because as a rock
is a pleasure, a rags do it as well.

Second Lord. Of course, otherwise it's not. beggars. That I would
be a fool! This highlights one another. The sun shines warmly on the
corner, and this is very easy. (Sing:) "A handful of earth and a bit
of moss ..." Rosalie (at Adelaide). Mach continued as soldiers
come! We have nothing since yesterday in the warm womb gekriegt.
Beggars. "Where on earth was once my last lot," Gentlemen, ladies!

Soldier. Stop! Where also, my children? (At Rosalie:) How old are you?
Rosalie. As old as my little finger. Soldier. You are very pointed.
Rosalie. And thou very blunt. Soldier. How do I want you to whet. (He
sings:) Christinlein, Christinlein my dear, Do you hurt the damage,
injury pain, injury pain, injury pain?

Rosalie (sings). Oh no, its soldiers Lord, I would 'like meh, meh
happy, happy meh , like meh! (Danton and Camille occur.) Danton.
Is that not funny?
But the grace of
any man is compared to the grace of Christ as a particular to a
universal power; hence as the force of fire, no matter how much it
increases, can never equal the sun's strength, so the grace of a man,
no matter how much it increases, can never equal the grace of Christ.
_______________________

TWELFTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 7, Art. 12]

Whether the Grace of Christ Could Increase?

Objection 1: It would seem that the grace of Christ could increase.
For to every finite thing addition can be made. But the grace of
Christ was finite. Therefore it could increase.

Obj. 2: Further, it is by Divine power that grace is increased,
according to 2 Cor. 9:8: "And God is able to make all grace abound in
you." But the Divine power, being infinite, is confined by no limits.
Therefore it seems that the grace of Christ could have been greater.

Obj. 3: Further, it is written (Luke 2:52) that the child "Jesus
advanced in wisdom and age and grace with God and men." Therefore the
grace of Christ could increase.

_On the contrary,_ It is written (John 1:14): "We saw Him [Vulg.:
'His glory'] as it were . . . the Only-begotten of the Father, full
of grace and truth." But nothing can be or can be thought greater
than that anyone should be the Only-begotten of the Father. Therefore
no greater grace can be or can be thought than that of which Christ
was full.

_I answer that,_ For a form to be incapable of increase happens in
two ways: First on the part of the subject; secondly, on the part of
the form itself. On the part of the subject, indeed, when the subject
reaches the utmost limit wherein it partakes of this form, after its
own manner, e.g. if we say that air cannot increase in heat, when it
has reached the utmost limit of heat which can exist in the nature of
air, although there may be greater heat in actual existence, viz. the
heat of fire. But on the part of the form, the possibility of
increase is excluded when a subject reaches the utmost perfection
which this form can have by nature, e.g. if we say the heat of fire
cannot be increased because there cannot be a more perfect grade of
heat than that to which fire attains. Fouquières. Only! Herman.
We are not free, but search parties from the hand. Fouquières. We
must go. - This is a good hedge fire. It is their nineteen. They
are cleverly zusammengewörfelt. The four counterfeiters, then a
few bankers and foreigners. It is a spicy dish. The people need
the sort. - So reliable people! Who for example? Herman. Leroi. He
is deaf and hears nothing, therefore, of what the defendants argue.
Danton like the rough-neck with him scream. Fouquières. Very good,
continue! Herman. Vilatte and Lumière. One is always in the pub
drinking, and the other is asleep, both open their mouths only to the
word "guilty" to say. - Girard is the principle that there should be
no escape, once before the Tribunal was made. Renaudin Fouquières ....
Also, the? He once helped by some parsons. Herman. Be quiet! A few
days ago he comes to me and demanded that we all should be sentenced
to death in front of the streak, so they are a little dull to
make their most defiant attitude annoyed him. Fouquières. Ah, very
good. So I am! Herman. Let me just make! Third Scene The Conciergerie.
A corridor Lacroix, Danton, Mercier and other prisoners to and from
reaching. Lacroix (to prisoners). Like so much unhappy, and in such a
miserable condition? The prisoners.

Was the guillotine carts never told that Paris was a battle bank ?
Mercier. Not true, Lacroix, equality sickle swinging their heads
all over the lava flows of the Revolution, the guillotine
republikanisiert! As the galleries clap, and the Romans rub their
hands, but they hear not that each of these words the Röcheln
is a victim. Where once your phrases according to the point where
they are embodied. - Looking at you, all you have spoken, it is a
translation mimic your words. This ends their executioners and the
guillotine are you alive gewordnen speeches. Your bautet your
systems, such as Bajazet its pyramids, of human heads. Danton. You're
right - it works now in all human flesh. That is the curse of our
time. My body is now also used.

It is grade one year, that I created the revolutionary court. I ask
God and people for forgiveness, and I wanted to pre-empt new September
killings, I was hoping to save the innocent, but this slow murder
of his paperwork is monstrous and equally inevitable. Gentlemen,
I hope you all leave this place to make. Mercier. Oh, we will go
out.

Danton. I am now with you, heaven knows how that ends. The Fourth
Scene Revolution Tribunal Herman (to Danton). Your name, citizenship.
Danton. The revolution is called my name. My apartment is almost
nothing in my name in the pantheon of history. Herman. Danton, the
Convention accuses you, with Mirabeau, with Dumouriez with Orléans,
with the Girondisten the stranger and the faction of Louis XVII.
konspiriert to have. Danton. My voice that I so often the cause
of the people heard him, without effort to reject the slander.

The meek who accuse me, who like to appear here, and I will cover
them with shame.

The Committees may go here, I will only answer them.

I saw them as plaintiffs and witnesses as necessary. You may show.
By the way, is what I like about you and your verdict? I've already
told you: nothing will soon be my asylum, - life is a burden to me,
you like it grab me, I long afterwards, it off. Herman. Danton,
the audacity, the criminals, the rest of the own innocence. Danton.
Privatkühnheit is undoubtedly to blame, but those Nationalkühnheit
that I so often shown, with which I so often fought for freedom,
is the most deserving of all virtues. - It is my boldness, she is
the one I am here for the good of the Republic against my pathetic
accuser serve.

Can I take when I am at such a low manner maligns see? - From a
revolutionary as I should not expect cold defense. Men of my shock
revolutions are priceless, on its forehead floats the genius of
freedom. (Sign of applause among the audience.)

Complains to me, with Mirabeau, with Dumouriez with konspiriert
Orléans, at the feet of wretched despot crawled to have calls on me,
before the inevitable, indomitable justice to answer. - You'll Just
wretched St. posterity for those responsible blasphemy!

Herman. I urge you to respond calmly, do you Marats, he joined with
reverence before his judges. Danton. Your hands are in my whole life
put so it might be because up and oppose them, the weights of
each of my actions, I will bury it. - I'm not proud of it. The
fate leads us to the arm, but only a huge natures are his organs.

I did on the field, the Martian kingdom declared war, I have it
on 10 August beaten, I saw it on 21 January killed the kings and a
king as head feud glove hingeworfen. (Repeat sign of applause. -
He takes the prosecution's file.) When I look at these Schandschrift
throw, I feel my whole being vibrate. Who are because those who needed
Danton had to be on that memorable day (10th August) to show? Who
are the privileged nature of which he borrowed his energy? - My
accusers might appear! I'm all for the senses, when I ask it. I will
unmask the rogue boards and they hurl back the nothingness
from which they never should have hervorkriechen. Herman (rings).
Listen to the bell not? Danton. The voice of a people who honor
and defend his life, you must clamp cry on. I did in September, the
young brood of the revolution with the bellies of the aristocrats
zerstückten etched. My voice has made the gold of the rich aristocrats
and the people forged weapons. My voice was the hurricane, which the
satellites of despotism under waves of bayonets buried. (Louder
applause.) Herman. Danton, your voice is exhausted, you have to move
violently. They are the next time you decide on your defense, you
need rest. - The session is repealed. Danton. Now you know Danton -
a few hours, and he is in the arms of glory entschlummern. The fifth
scene Luxembourg. A dungeon Dillon. Laflotte. Caught A keeper. Dillon.
Kerl, light me with your nose, not so in the face. Huh, huh, huh!
Laflotte. Hold the mouth, your crescent moon has a yard. Huh, huh,
huh! Keeper. Huh, huh, huh! Believe You, Lord, that when you could
read her note? (Displays on a piece of paper, which he holds in
his hand.) Dillon. Give her! Keeper. Lord, my moon tide has done
for me. Laflotte. Your pants look as if would flood. signalman. No,
it attracts water. (At Dillon:) You have before your sun verkrochen,
Lord, you must give me something that makes them fiery, if you
want to read it. Dillon. Since, guy!

Pack yourself! (He gives him money. Signalman from. - Dillon reads:)
Danton, the Tribunal shocked that Geschwornen fluctuated, the
audience murmured. The Zudrang was extraordinary. The people pressed
around the Palace of Justice and stood up to the bridges.

A handful of money, an arm finally - out! out! (He goes up and down
and gives from time to time from a bottle of failure.) Had I only
walk in the street! I am not going to slaughter. Yes, only to
walk in the street! Laflotte. And on the cart, this is one. Dillon.
Do you? There were still a few steps in between, long enough to
familiarize them with the corpses of Dezemvirn to measure. - It is
finally time that the people rechtschaffnen the head. Laflotte (for
themselves). The better, the easier it is to be taken. Only, age,
some glasses, and I will fast. Dillon. The villains, the fool, they
will still last even guillotinieren.

(He runs up and down.) Laflotte (aside). It could be the life of
love properly again, like his child, if one's itself. That is not
often that you have the chance to drive incest and his own father can
be. Father and child at the same time. A cozy Oedipe! Dillon. You
do not feed the people with corpses; Danton and Camille assignats
women who like to throw the people, that's better than heads.
Laflotte (aside). I would back to the eye does not tear, I might have
needed to the good General to Mourning.
Dillon. The hand of Danton!

Who else is safe?

The fear is they unite. Laflotte (aside). But he is lost.
What it's because when I step on a corpse to the grave to climb?

Dillon. Only the foot on the street! I will find enough people, old
soldiers, Girondisten, Exadlige we vomit the prisons, we need to
understand the prisoners.

Laflotte (aside). Now, admittedly, it smells a little Schufterei.

So what? I would like also to try and I was too one-sided. Man gets
pangs, but that's a change, it is not so uncomfortable, with its
own stench smelling. - The prospect of the guillotine has become
boring to me so long to wait for the thing!

I have it in mind already twenty durchprobiert.

There is also nothing more piquant turn it is has become quite
common.

Dillon. You have to Danton's wife a ticket to you. Laflotte (aside).
And then - I fear not death, but the pain.

It could do woe, who is me?

They say although it was only a moment, but the pain has a finer
rate, he dissects a Tertie.

No! The pain is the only sin, and suffering is the only vice, I
will remain virtuous.

Dillon. Listen, Laflotte, where is the guy hingekommen?

I have money that must go.

We need the iron, my plan is ready. Laflotte. Right, right! I know
the make, I am going to talk to him. You can count on me, General,
we will come out of the hole - (for the Hinausgehn:) to another to
go: I have the most extensive, the world, he the closest, the grave.
Szene Sixth St. The Welfare Committee Just Barère. Collot d'Herbois.
Billaud-Varennes. Barère. What writes Fouquières? St. Just The second
interrogation is over.

The prisoners demand the release of several members of the Convention
and of the Welfare Committee, they appealed to the people, because
refusal of witnesses.

The movement of the minds will be indescribable. - Danton parodied
the Jupiter and shook the curls. Collot. So much easier to grab
him Samson. Barère. We can not show the fish-wives and rag collectors
could find ourselves less impressive.

Billaud. The nation has an instinct to kick to leave, and it would be
only with the eyes, like insolente physiognomies liked him.

Such foreheads are worse than a noble coat of arms, the subtle contempt
Aristokratismus the people sitting on them. It should help them at
any turn, it verdrießt a view from the top down to get. Barère.
He is like the hörnerne Siegfried, the blood of the Septembrisierten
has made him invulnerable. What does Robespierre? St. Just do it,
as if he had something to say. The Geschwornen need for adequately
explain and inform the debate closed. Barère. Impossible, that is
not possible. St. Just you need to move away at any price, and we
should lend them with the hands strangled. Dare! Danton
is not the word we have taught in vain. The revolution will not trip
over their bodies, but Danton remains alive, he is on garment
making, and he has something in its shape, as if he could notzüchtigen
freedom. (St. Just will hinausgerufen.) (A NO occurs.) NO. In St.
Pélagie are prisoners on death, they require a doctor. Billaud.
This is unnecessary, so much less trouble for the executioner. NO.
There are pregnant women here. Billaud. the better, as do their
Children no coffin. Barère. Tuberculosis The Aristocrats saves a
revolutionary court, a meeting. Each pharmacopoeia would contrerevolutionär.
Collot (takes a paper). A petition, a women's name! Barère. Well one
of those who want to be forced between a guillotine board and the
bed of a Jacobin to choose. The Lucretia as after the loss
of their honor to die, but somewhat later than the Roman: the child
on the bed or from cancer or old age. - It may not be so inconvenient
to make a virtue out of the Tarquinius Republic to a virgin drive.
Collot. She is too old. Madame demanded the death, they know to
express themselves: the prison is on her like a coffin lid, which sits
only four weeks. The answer is easy. (He writes and reads:) "citizen,
it is not long enough that you want the death." (Normally starting
from.) Barère. Well said! But, Collot, it is not good that the
guillotine starts to laugh, otherwise the people have no fear it
more, you do not do so familiar.

(St. Just come back.) St Just exactly do I get a denunciation. Man
konspiriert in the prisons, a young man named Laflotte has discovered
everything. He sat with Dillon in the same room, Dillon has to drink
and chat. Barère. It cuts to his neck from the bottle, which is
already more occurred. St. Just Danton and Camille Weiber money
to throw at the people, Dillon should break out, they
want to liberate the prisoners, the Convention should be dynamited.
Barère. These are fairy tales. St. Just We will, however, with the
fairy tales told in sleep.

The ad I have in my hands, plus the pertness of the accused, the murmur
of the people, the dismay of Geschwornen - I will make a report.
Barère. Yes, go, St. Just, and spinne your periods where every
comma and Säbelhieb each point abgeschlagner head! St. Just The
Convention must Declaring the Tribunal should be without interruption
the process should continue and all defendants, which the courts
respect guilty injured or disturbing appearances prompted by the debates
exclude. Barère. You have a revolutionary instinct, which is quite
moderate and but its effect is doing.

You can not remain silent, Danton must scream. St. Just I am counting
on your support. There are people in the Convention, the equally ill
as Danton and the same cure fear. You have courage to get back,
they are informed of the violation forms scream ... Barère (breaking
under him) I will tell them: At Rome, the consul,
which is the conspiracy of Katilina discovered and the criminals
on the spot punished with death, the accused injured formality.

Who was his accuser? Collot (with pathos).

Geh, St Just! The lava flows of the revolution. The freedom, the
weaklings who fertilize their mighty bosom wanted in their suffocating
embrace the majesty of the people they are like Jupiter in Semele
under thunder and lightning appear and transform them into ashes.

Go, St. Just, we will help you, the thunderbolt on the heads of the
cowards to hurl! (From St. Just.) Barère. Have you heard the
word cure? They are still in the guillotine A specific disease against
the desire to make. They are not fighting with the moderated, they
fight with the truck. Billaud. Until now, our way together. Barère.
Robespierre wants the revolution from an auditorium for morale and
the guillotine as catheter use.

Billaud. Or as Betschemel. Collot. On but then he does not, but lie.
Barère. This will easily go. The world would stand on his head, when
the so-called thieves of the so-called legal citizens should be
hanged.

Collot (to Barère). When you come back to Clichy? Barère. When the
doctor no longer comes to me. Collot. Not true, above the village
stands a hair star, whose rays singe your spinal cord is completely
dry?

Billaud. pretty soon the finger of the lovely Demaly him out of the
sheaths and drag it over the back Zöpfchen make hinunterhängen.

Barère (shrugs armpits). Pst! which may term the virtuous know
nothing. Billaud. He is an impotent Masoret. (Billaud and Collot
from.) Barère (alone). The monster! - "It is not yet long enough
that you have the death wish!" These words must have the tongue dry,
which it is spoken. And I? - When the Septembriseurs penetrated into
the prison, its prisoners includes a knife, he urges, among the
murderers, he encounters it in the breast of a priest, he is
saved! Who can do what dawid have? Whether I am now under the
murderers or urge me to put the welfare committee, if I have a
guillotines or take a penknife? It is the same case, but with somewhat
convoluted circumstances, the basic conditions are the same. - And
was' he murder: had 'er two, even three or even more? where does this
occur? Here come the barley grains! A bunch of do two, three, four,
what then? Come, my conscience, come, my chicken, come, bi, bi, bi,
there is food! But - I was also prisoners? I was suspect, which also
runs on one and the death was to me certainly.

(Ab) Seventh Scene The Conciergerie Lacroix. Danton. Philippeau. Camille.
Lacroix. You have good geschrien, Danton, had you a bit earlier
so pained to see your life, it would be different now.

Not true, if the death of such a brazen and so close to the neck
stinks and will always benign and intrusive? Camille.

If he is an even notzüchtigte and his prey fight and struggle under
the hot tore tendons! But as in all the formalities such as at the
wedding with an old woman, as the covenants set, as the witnesses
called, as I
said Amen and then the blanket and lifted it slowly with his
hereinkriecht cold limbs!

Danton.

Wär 'is a struggle, that the arms and grabbed each other teeth!

But it is to me as if I were in a Mühlwerk fallen and the limbs would
slow me systematically from the cold physical violence off. So
mechanically to be killed! Camille. And then, lying alone, cold, stiff
in the humid haze of the rot -- maybe that one of the death of the
life of the slow fibers martert - with perhaps consciousness itself
wegzufaulen!

Philippeau. Be quiet, my friends! We are like the Herbstzeitlose
which until after the winter bears seeds. From flowers, to be made,
we differ only in that we are trying a little stink. Is that so
bad? Danton. An edifying prospect! From a dunghill at the others! Not
true, the divine theory class? From Prima after secondary, secondary
after Tertia, and so forth?

I have tired of the school benches, I have calluses buttocks like a
monkey on sat. Philippeau. What wilt thou? Danton. Calm. Philippeau.
This is in God. Danton. In Nothing. Sink yourself into what
quieter than nothing, and if the highest peace is God, Nothing
is not the God? But I'm an atheist. The cursed sentence: Something
can not be nothing! And I am something, that's the pity!

- The creation has become so widespread, there is nothing empty, all
full swarm. The Nothing has murdered, is the creation of his wound,
we are its drops of blood, the world is the grave where there fault.
- This is crazy, but it is something true in it. Camille. The world
is the Eternal Jew, nothing is death, but it is impossible. Oh, can
not die, can not die!

as stated in the song says. Danton. We are all buried alive and how
kings in three or four coffins buried under the sky, in our homes,
in our skirts and shirts. - We scrape fifty years on the coffin
lid. Yes, anyone who could believe the destruction! which would have
helped. - There is no hope in death, he is just a simpler life is a
complicated, organized rot, that's the whole difference! - But I'm
just in this kind of lazy habit, and the devil knows what I do
with another zurechtkomme. Julie O! If I were alone! If they
could me lonely! - And when I totally fell apart, I totally dissolved:
I would be martyred a handful of dust, each of my atoms could
only find peace with her. - I can not die, no, I can not die. We are
not yet beaten. We need to scream, they need me every drop of life
from the tendons tear. Lacroix. We must build on our existing debt,
our accuser, and the committees must appear before the Tribunal. Achte
Scene One room Fouquières. Amar. Vouland. Fouquières. I no longer
know what I should reply, they demand a commission. Amar. We have a
rogue, since you have what you ask. (He hands over a paper Fouquières.)
Vouland. That will satisfy them. Fouquières. Truly, we had the
necessary. Amar. Now do that we and the thing they get from the throat.
Ninth scene Danton The revolutionary tribunal. The Republic is in
danger and he has no instruction! We appeal to the people, my voice
is still strong enough to Dezemvirn the funeral speech. -
I repeat, we demand a commission, we have to make important discoveries.

Therefore Christ is the Head of the angels.

_I answer that,_ As was said above (A. 1, ad 2), where there is one
body we must allow that there is one head. Now a multitude ordained
to one end, with distinct acts and duties, may be metaphorically
called one body. But it is manifest that both men and angels are
ordained to one end, which is the glory of the Divine fruition. Hence
the mystical body of the Church consists not only of men but of
angels. Now of all this multitude Christ is the Head, since He is
nearer God, and shares His gifts more fully, not only than man, but
even than angels; and of His influence not only men but even angels
partake, since it is written (Eph. 1:20-22): that God the Father set
"Him," namely Christ, "on His right hand in the heavenly places,
above all Principality and Power and Virtue and Dominion and every
name that is named not only in this world, but also in that which is
to come. And He hath subjected all things under His feet." Therefore
Christ is not only the Head of men, but of angels. Hence we read
(Matt. 4:11) that "angels came and ministered to Him."

Reply Obj. 1: Christ's influence over men is chiefly with regard to
their souls; wherein men agree with angels in generic nature, though
not in specific nature. By reason of this agreement Christ can be
said to be the Head of the angels, although the agreement falls short
as regards the body.

Reply Obj. 2: The Church, on earth, is the congregation of the
faithful; but, in heaven, it is the congregation of comprehensors.
Now Christ was not merely a wayfarer, but a comprehensor. And
therefore He is the Head not merely of the faithful, but of
comprehensors, as having grace and glory most fully.

Reply Obj. 3: Augustine here uses the similitude of cause and effect,
i.e. inasmuch as corporeal things act on bodies, and spiritual things
on spiritual things. Nevertheless, the humanity of Christ, by virtue
of the spiritual nature, i.e. the Divine, can cause something not
only in the spirits of men, but also in the spirits of angels, on
account of its most close conjunction with God, i.e. by personal
union.
_______________________

FIFTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 8, Art. 5]

Whether the Grace of Christ, As Head of the Church, Is the Same As
His Habitual Grace, Inasmuch As He Is Man?

Objection 1: It would seem that the grace whereby Christ is Head of
the Church and the individual grace of the Man are not the same. 
Lacroix. Oh, if I only once the worms would be throughout los!
Hérault. Well, you sleep well! we have to see how we cope with
each other, we have little space. - Scrape me with your nails while
you sleep! - So! So you do not tug on Leichtuch, it's cold down
there! - Danton. Yes, Camille, tomorrow we are durchgelaufne shoes
that you beggar the soil in the womb raises. Camille. The cow, which
according to Plato, the angels cut slippers and so on Earth
herumtappen.

But it is also thereafter. - My Lucile! Danton. Be quiet, my boy!
Camille. Can I? Do you think Danton? Can I? You can use the hands
to not put it! The light of beauty, from her sweet body is
ausgießt is unquenchable. Look, the earth would not dare to
spill it, they would have to bend it, the grave Dunst would like
dew on her lashes sparkle, crystals would like their flowers to
sprout limbs and light sources in sleep they mumble.

Danton. Sleep, my boy, sleep! Camille. Listen, Danton, among
us, it's so miserable, die. It also helps to nothing. I want the
life of the last glances from his pretty eyes steal, I will have your
eyes open. Danton. You will keep it open anyway, Samson expresses
one's eyes not to be.

The sleep is merciful. Sleep, my boy, sleep! Camille. Lucile, fantasize
your kisses on my lips, each kiss is a dream, my eyes fall and close
it securely. - Danton. Will because the clock does not lie? With
each push them pecking the walls close around me, until they are
so narrow like a coffin. - I read once as a child, so 'ne story,
my hair stood up in the mountains.

Yes, as a child! "That was worth the trouble, so great to me and fed
me to keep warm. But working for the gravedigger, it gives me,
as röch 'I know. My dear body, I want my nose and I imagine you
seist a women's room, which the dance and sweat stinks, and-like you
say. We have otherwise been more interconnected distributed time.
Tomorrow you're a broken fiddle, the tune that is played. Tomorrow you
have an empty bottle, the wine is ausgetrunken, but I did not rush
them sober and go to bed - these are lucky people who can still
drunk.'re Morning you have a durchgerutschte trousers, you will be
thrown into the wardrobe, and the moths will eat thee, thou mayest
stink as you like. Oh, that helps nothing! Yep, it is so miserable,
die. The death äfft birth, the dying, we are so helpless and naked
as neugeborne children. Of course, we get the diaper to shroud. What
will it help? We can be in the grave as well as whimper in
the cradle. Camille!

He's asleep, (he bent over him:) a dream to play between his eyelashes.
I want the golden dew of sleep, he does not strip from the eyes (He
rises and comes out of windows.) I will not go alone: I thank you,
Julie! but otherwise I would like to die so easily, like a star
falls, like a clay itself grounds, with the suitable rotküßt lips,
like a ray of light in clear waters to bury. - What are the tears
shimmering stars through the night blown up, it must be a great pity
in the eyes, from which they abträufelten. Camille. Oh! (He has
been up and groping under the ceiling.) Danton.

What did you, Camille? Camille. Oh, oh! Danton (shaking him). If
you want the ceiling herunterkratzen? Camille. Oh, du, du - o
keep me posted! Speak, thou! Danton. bebst you to all members,
the weld is you on the forehead. Camille. The art thou, that I -
so! This is my hand! Yes! I now reflect. O Danton, that was horrible!
Danton. What then?

Camille. I lay it between dream and wakefulness. Since the ceiling
disappeared, and the moon sank in, very close, very tight, my arms
covered him. The celestial ceiling, with its lights had been lowered,
I came out, I betastete the stars, I stumbled like a drowning under
the ice. That was horrible, Danton! Danton. The lamp casts a circular
note to the ceiling, which saw Camille du. I am concerned, it needs
not much grade, in order to lose the little sense to make. The madness
took me about your hair. (He rises.) I
might not sleep anymore, I might not be crazy.

(He reaches for a book.) Danton.

What you take? Camille. The night thoughts. Danton.

If you want to advance to die? I accept the Pucelle. I want out of
life is not like the Betstuhl, but out of bed like a merciful
sister away. It is a whore, it is pushing with the whole world
fornication. Fourth place before the scene A Conciergerie NO.
Two carts with carters. Weiber. NO. Herfahren Who told you? First
Fuhrmann. Herfahren I'm not, this is a strange name.

NO. Dullard who has sent you to the appointment where? First
Fuhrmann. I have no stabling to get nothing than ten sous for the
head. Second Fuhrmann. The villain wants to bring me around bread.
First Fuhrmann. What you call your bread? (On the windows of
the prisoners significantly:) This is Wurmfraß. Second Fuhrmann. My
children are also worms, and also want their share of it. Oh, it goes
bad with our profession, and yet we are the best carters.

First Fuhrmann. How? Second Fuhrmann. Who is the best wagoner? First
Fuhrmann. The farthest and fastest drives. Second Fuhrmann. Now,
donkeys, who goes further than the leaves from the world, and who
runs faster than the 's in an hour is doing? Precisely measured,
it's a quarter of an hour from then until the Revolution Square. NO.
Rasch, you rascal! Closer to the gate; place because their girl!
First Fuhrmann. Halt't your front! To take a girl go nit around,
always in the Mitt 'no.

Second Fuhrmann. Yes, I think: you can with wheelbarrows and
Gäulen inside, you find good tracks, but you need to be quarantined,
if you herauskommst. (You before driving.) Second Fuhrmann. (for
women). gafft What you think? A woman. We are waiting for old customers.
Second Fuhrmann.

Do you, my cart would be 'a brothel? He is a decent carts, he has the
king and all the gentlemen from Paris to table driven. Lucile
(occurs. It sits on a stone under the windows of the prisoners).
Camille, Camille! (Camille appears at the window.) Hear, Camille,
you make me laugh with a long stone rock and iron the front of the
face mask, you can not bend over? Where are your arms? - I want
to entice you, dear bird. (Sing:) We stand two Sternlein in
the sky, brighter bills than the Moon, The one 'seems to
Feinsliebchens window, the other in front of the chamber. Come,
come, my friend! Quiet up the Force, they all sleep. The moon helps
me a long wait. But you can not come to the gate, that is an
unfortunate costume. That is too much for the fun, make an end! You
rührst you do not, why do not you speak? You make me afraid. Listen!
People say that you have to die, and so to make serious faces. Die!
I have to laugh on their faces. Death! What is that a word? Tell me,
Camille. Die! I want to think about. Da, da ist's. I want
him to run, come, sweet friend, help me catch it, come! come! (She
runs away.) Camille (calls). Lucile! Lucile! Fifth Conciergerie
Danton The scene at a window, which goes into the next room. Camille.
Philippeau. Lacroix. Hérault. Danton. You are now quiet, Fabre. A
voice (from inside). On dying. Danton. Do you know what we are
now? The Voice. Now? Danton. What you your whole life to have - the
vers. Camille (for themselves). The madness sat behind her eyes.
There are already more people become crazy, this is the race in
the world.

What can we do? We wash our hands -. It is also better this way.
Danton. I put everything in a terrible confusion. Nobody understands
governance.

It might still go, if I Robespierre Couthon my bitch and my left calf.
Lacroix. We should have the freedom to whore done!

Danton. What would do it too! The freedom and a whore, the most
cosmopolitan of things under the sun. It is now in the bedroom of
decency advocates of Arras prostitute. But I think they will
Klytämnestra play against him, I do not leave him six months time, I
prefer him with me. Camille (for themselves). The sky in helping
her to a comfortable fixed idea. The general fixed ideas, which
we christened the healthy sense, are unbearably boring. The happiest
man was the one who could imagine that he is God the Father, Son and
Holy Spirit is. Lacroix. The donkey will be screaming "Long live the
Republic" if we go past. Danton. What is it? The Sündflut the
Revolution may sell our bodies, where they will, with our fossil bones
will still be kings of all the skull can have. Hérault.
Yes, if just for our Simson Kinnbacken found.

Danton. You are Kainsbrüder. Lacroix.

Nothing proves more that Robespierre is a Nero, as the fact that
he never friendly against Camille was two days before his arrest.

Is it not so, Camille? Camille. I am concerned, what does that to
me? - (For itself:) What they are to the madness a lovely child is
born! Why must I continue? We would have laughed along with him, and
kissed it gewiegt. Danton. Once the story opens its sepulchers,
the despotism still on the scent of our corpses choke. Hérault.
Stanke We already sufficiently in his own lifetime. - These are
phrases for posterity, is not it, Danton, we go there's nothing to
it.

Camille. He pulls a face, as if it fossilize and posterity will be
excavated as antiquity. The verlohnt also the effort to make Mäulchen
and red and hang up with a good accent to speak, we should even remove
the masks, then we would see, like in a room with mirrors everywhere
only an ancient, toothless, indestructable sheep's head, nothing
more, nothing less. The differences are not so great, we all are
villains and angels, idiots and geniuses, and all in one: the four
things found enough space in the same body, they are not as wide
as you einbildet itself.

Sleeping, digesting, kids - this drive all the other things are
just variations of different scales on the same topic. You need to
toes and faces to be cut, because you need to be embarrassed in
front! We are all sick at the same tables and have eaten body Grimmen,
what do you think you the napkin in front of the face?

Schreit greint only and, as you arrive! Cuts just not so virtuous and
so funny and so heroic and so ingenious grimaces, yes we know each
each other, saving you the trouble! Hérault.

Yes, Camille, we want to scream and beieinandersetzen; nothing
stupid, when the lips compress when a what hurts. - Greeks and the
gods cried, Romans, and made the heroic stoic grimace. Danton. Some
were as good as the others epicureans. They made a very comfortable
self-esteem to cope. It is not so bad, his toga to drape and look
around, whether it poses a long shadow. What should we pull? Whether
we turn to bay leaves, rose vine wreaths or tie against the shame or
the ugly thing and it shall be open to us by the dogs can lick?
Philippeau. My friends, you need not just high above the earth, in
order of all the confusing wavering fibrillation, and nothing more
to see and the eyes of some great divine lines have to be met.
There is an ear, for which the mix of screaming and Zeter to stun us,
a stream of harmonies are. Danton. But we are poor musicians and the
instruments of our body. Are the horrid sounds which herausgepfuscht
on them, only there to higher and higher and finally urged softly
voluptuous verhallend like a breath in the heavenly ears to die?
Hérault. Are we such pigs, that can be used for boards with princely
Ruten totpeitscht so that their meat will be tastier? Danton. Are
we children who in the glowing Molochsarmen this world fried and
tickled with light, so that the gods are laughing about her look?

Camille. Is the airwaves with his golden eyes a bowl with golden carp,
at the table of the blessed gods, and the blessed gods laugh forever
and the fish die forever, and the gods enjoy forever the colors of
the death struggle?

Danton. The world is chaos. The Nothing is born of God over the world.
(The NO contact occurs.) NO. Gentlemen, you can leave the
car stop in front of the door. Philippeau. Good night, my friends!
Do we still see the huge blanket over us, covering all heart and
all eyes turn behind. (They hug each other.) Hérault. (adds
Camille arm). Rejoice, Camille, we get a nice night. The clouds hang
on the quiet evening sky like a fade annealing with Olympus, the gods
sinking figures. (You go from.) Sixth Julie A bedroom scene.
The people ran in the streets, now everything is quiet. Not a moment,
I would let him wait. (It draws a clear vial.) Come, dear priests,
whose Amen us go to bed making. (It occurs to the window.) It's so
pretty, to say goodbye, I had the door just behind me in it.

(She drinks.) One would always stand. - The sun is down, the earth
moves were so sharp in their light, but now her face
is so quiet and serious as a dying man. - How beautiful the evening
light to her forehead and cheeks plays. - Always Bleicher Bleicher
and it will be like a corpse pushes them down in the flood of the
ether.

Will there not arm them with the golden curls and hold the power
they draw and they buried?

I go quietly. I do not kiss, that no breath, no sigh she awakens
from the slumber. - Sleep, sleep!

(She died.) Seventh Scene Revolution Square approached the car and
stop in front of the guillotine. Men and women sing and dance the
Carmagnole. The prisoners, the Marseillaise. A woman (with children).
Platz!

Place! The children scream, they have hunger. I must watch them, that
they still are. Place: a woman. He, Danton, now you can with the worms
fornication drive.

Another. Hérault, from your beautiful hair let me make a wig.
Hérault. I do not have enough for a forest cleared so Venusberg.
Camille. Cursed Witch! You will still cry: "You mountains, Fallet
on us!"

A woman. The mountain is on you, or you are much more hinuntergefallen
him. Danton (to Camille). Calmly, my boy! You have geschrien hoarse.
Camille (Fuhrmann gives the money). Since, old Charon, your cart
is a good Eller Presented!

- Gentlemen, I will first serve. This is a classic banquet, we are
on our seats and spill a little blood as Libation. Adieu, Danton! (He
climbs the scaffold of blood, the prisoners to follow him, one after
the other. Danton rises up last.) Lacroix (to the people). You are
killing us on the day where you've lost the mind, you will them to
the kill where her wiederbekommt him. Some voices. That was once there,
how boring! Lacroix. The tyrant will be on our graves break his neck.
Hérault (to Danton). He keeps his corpse for a Mistbeet freedom.
Philippeau (on the scaffold ). I forgive you, I hope your death was
not bittrer hours than mine. Hérault. dacht 'ich's doch! he must
once again in the bosom, and draw the people down there to show that
he has clean underwear. Fabre. Farewell, Danton! I die twice. Danton.
Adieu, my friend! The guillotine is the best doctor. Hérault (Danton
wants to hug). Oh, Danton, I do not even have a more fun out. Because
it's time. (An executioner triggers him back.) Danton (the executioner).
Wilt thou cruel than the death? Can you prevent our heads at the
bottom of the basket kiss? Eighth Lucile A street scene. It is
something serious like that. I want to think again. I begin, so as
to understand. Dying - dying -!

- It may indeed live everything, everything, because the small
mosquito, the bird. Why does not he? The stream of life would
stagnate if only one drop would be buried. The Earth would receive
a wound from the string. It suggests that all the clocks go beat the
bell, the people running the water runs down, and so on until
everything there, then - no, it must not happen, no, I wants me on
the floor and scream, terrified that everything stand still,
everything stagnates, suggests nothing more. (It is settled, veiled
the eyes and faces a scream.

After a pause raises it:) That helps nothing, because everything is
still as usual, the houses, the street, the wind goes, the clouds move.
- We must's probably suffer. (Some women come down the alley.)

First wife. A handsome man who Hérault! Second wife. When he fixed the
constitution as the Arc de Triomphe stood since dacht 'ich so, must
be well on the guillotine exempt dacht 'ich. That was so 'ne Ahnung.
Drittes wife. Yes, you have people in all circumstances to see it
is quite good,
so that the public is dying.

(They pass.)

Lucile. My Camille! Where am I now
looking for?

Ninth Scene Revolution Square Two executioner at the guillotine
busy. Executioner First (is on the guillotine and sings). And
when I go hame, the moon seems to happen ... Second executioner.

Hey, holla ! Are soon? First executioner. Right, right!

(Sing:) Seems in my father's window Eller - guy, where to stay so
long at de people?

So! The jacket here! (You go from singing:) And when I go hame, the
moon seems to happen ...

Lucile (occurs and sits on the steps of the guillotine).

I am on your lap, you silent angel of death.
(She sings:) There is a reaper, which means death, violence has
the highest God.

You love cradle you in my sleep Camille gelullt him under your roses
have suffocated.

You knell to keep it with your sweet tongue buried sang.

(She sings:) Have uncounted hundreds of thousands, only what falls
under the sickle. (A patrol occurs.) A citizen. He, who is there?
Lucile (sinnend and resolve like a brief, sudden). Long live the
king! Citizens. On behalf of the Republic!

(You will be surrounded by guards and taken away.)
Objection 1: It would seem that in Christ there was not the knowledge
of the blessed or comprehensors. For the knowledge of the blessed is
a participation of Divine light, according to Ps. 35:10: "In Thy
light we shall see light." Now Christ had not a participated light,
but He had the Godhead Itself substantially abiding in Him, according
to Col. 2:9: "For in Him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead
corporeally." Therefore in Christ there was not the knowledge of the
blessed.

Obj. 2: Further, the knowledge of the blessed makes them blessed,
according to John 17:3: "This is eternal life: that they may know
Thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ Whom Thou hast sent." But
this Man was blessed through being united to God in person, according
to Ps. 64:5: "Blessed is He Whom Thou hast chosen and taken to Thee."
Therefore it is not necessary to suppose the knowledge of the blessed
in Him.

Obj. 3: Further, to man belongs a double knowledge--one by nature,
one above nature. Now the knowledge of the blessed, which consists in
the vision of God, is not natural to man, but above his nature. But
in Christ there was another and much higher supernatural knowledge,
i.e. the Divine knowledge. Therefore there was no need of the
knowledge of the blessed in Christ.

_On the contrary,_ The knowledge of the blessed consists in the
knowledge of God. But He knew God fully, even as He was man,
according to John 8:55: "I do know Him, and do keep His word."
Therefore in Christ there was the knowledge of the blessed.

_I answer that,_ What is in potentiality is reduced to act by what is
in act; for that whereby things are heated must itself be hot. Now
man is in potentiality to the knowledge of the blessed, which
consists in the vision of God; and is ordained to it as to an end;
since the rational creature is capable of that blessed knowledge,
inasmuch as he is made in the image of God. The poet and elder, he
had to resign again, and looked for a consolation to the ingratitude
of men devoting to the cultivation in the solitude of his beloved
poetry. In 1612 appeared his _Novelas ejemplares_, new and already
published in Seville, so closely linked with the history of the theater,
serving countless poets to compose his dramas [10]. Soon followed
the _Viaje to Parnaso_, admirable work, which many trials as well
as ingenious as fair, in addition to increased value of poetic
passages, contains others who are just in back of catalog names of
Spanish poets.

A _apéndice_ prose that remains is to call attention to the former
author's dramas, and forgotten; accused of ingratitude to the
actors and the public, and recommend some comedies which he composed
in his later years. In hopes to shine again in the theaters of the
capital, had written several comedies and starters, work was soon
to be represented, but all their efforts were futile, because no
theater directors agreed to their pleas.

To remove a product from them, suggested that the bookseller
Villarroel purchases, but will be answered at the outset that his
prose you might expect a lot and nothing of his verses, gave the
order, and printed in the year 1615 the volume of his comedies and
starters, as strange origin hypothesis.

By this time Spain moved a lot of noise in a single literary production,
this is a continuation of a certain _Don Quijote_ Avellaneda, assumed
name of an Aragonese priest, composer of comedies. This false _Don
Quijote_ not devoid of invention and ingenuity, but made references
to the author unworthy of the true, infinitely superior. Cervantes
replied to this attack with the passion of his second
novel, whose success was silence their enemies.

The noble restraint expressed, and in this as in other matters,
deserves to be quoted by model.

The second part was the _Don Quijote_ Cervantes' last work published,
but we are not exhausted their ingenuity.

The protection, which was dispensed two large generators, the
Count de Lemos, and D. Bernardo de Sandoval y Rojas, archbishop
of Toledo, were the happiest years of his life and gives you peace
of mind enough to make their plans poetic, as the continuation
of the _Galatea_, comedy _The deception to ojos_ two unknown works,
the _Bernardo_ and _Las Weeks Jardín_, and the novel _Persiles
and Segismunda_, which alone has kept the time. Cervantes _Persiles_
preferred all his works: posterity thinks very differently, but
whatever the view that it is formed, no surprise that the old man
wrote a sixty-eight years, so deploying lush fantasy that, says
Calderon, like Vulcan, concealed under his coat of snow rivers of
fire.

By the spring of 1616 had completed the _Persiles_: the state of his
health started to inspire some care; believed improvements in
air, and for this purpose was Esquivias to visit their
relatives. But the bad is getting worse, and, seeing her so close, he
wanted to die at home.
_I answer that,_ As stated above (A. 1), it was fitting that the
human nature assumed by the Word of God should not be imperfect. Now
everything in potentiality is imperfect unless it be reduced to act.
But the passive intellect of man is in potentiality to all
intelligible things, and it is reduced to act by intelligible
species, which are its completive forms, as is plain from what is
said _De Anima_ iii, 32, 38. Tell the lady that does not stop. (Eumorfo
Vans and Marino.) SCENE IV. Proclama, ASCLEPIGENIA. (Eumorfo leans
her head occasionally sees, hears and makes gestures of
surprise during this scene.) Proclama .- - Stunning appearance! Who
are you? Are you mortal or goddess? ASCLEPIGENIA. (Lifting the veil
and discover the face I recognize .)--¿, proclama? Proclama .--
¡Asclepigenia my heart! How beautiful you are! As the day beating the
dawn of the morning, your Belda today beating the rebels that fifteen
years ago in Athens shines. I have no doubt that your soul will be
improved and beautiful too. ASCLEPIGENIA .-- Do not hesitate.
My soul has been improved and beautiful. Proclama .-- Sea congratulations
a thousand times. And who is your soul? ASCLEPIGENIA .-- In-One
unit is in all his powers, virtues, powers and other attributes, is
always yours. Proclama .-- So, you love me? ASCLEPIGENIA .-- I
love you . Just knew you were here, I have come to you. Proclama
.-- Since there is no danger.

ASCLEPIGENIA .-- I see it. Proclama .-- ¿live together? ASCLEPIGENIA
.-- And why not? I have a magnificent palace where albergarte. Be
my philosopher. Contigo, through contemplation, on the wings of
enthusiasm and love of the macula, arrobaré me, and I lost my
extasiaré in uno proclama .-- So be it.

ASCLEPIGENIA .-- Now I must leave you. I can not miss this night
in my palace, where visitors look. Go to settle there since
morning. Proclama .-- No hope otherwise. ASCLEPIGENIA .-- As I
suppose you will not have been without the tools of your profession,
my servants will be presented here with a wagon for removal of all
books junk and do miracles, to speak with the dead and to attract
the spirits and demons. proclama .-- You're my earthly providence.
How to pay as much care? ASCLEPIGENIA .-- Amándome. Proclama .-- With
all the soul. ASCLEPIGENIA farewell .-- For you let me a chaste kiss
on the forehead. Proclamations. (Besándola with respectful
timidity.) - This is the first time to touch my lips. How gift
favor! ASCLEPIGENIA .-- Farewell, beloved proclama! (Vase) SCENE V.
proclama, EUMORFO. EUMORFO .-- You know what I mean, master? Proclama
.-- Di, and I know.

I do not want to take the guess work of your thoughts. EUMORFO .--
Well I will say that removing the desire to study philosophy.
Proclama .-- Why? EUMORFO .-- For philosophy back to the one who looks
stupid. proclamations .-- Wrong. What it does is to reinforce
the philosophy that everyone has clothes. At the fool again will not
discreet or discrete silly, but when he makes discreet discreet,
and the moron tontísimo. EUMORFO .-- Unless the deserved respect,
then you declare that you own your convictions. Proclama .-- What
luck ? EUMORFO .-- Because now showing tontísimo with all your
philosophy, you should be living in
your fool pre: dumb by birth. proclama .-- And what proof I have
given myself this superlative nonsense that accuse me?

EUMORFO .- -The proof is by your love sublime Asclepigenia. proclama
.-- What do you know that?

EUMORFO .-- I know Asclepigenia very thoroughly. proclama .-- Te
hallucinations.

I assume you know the powers of his soul, which in their effusion,
have created for her a beautiful body, but the essence of the
eternal soul, which is what I love and what I loved, is at a
point inaccessible to you. EUMORFO .-- ¿aware that I take a simile?
.-- Valter proclamations of how you are similes occur. EUMORFO.

Therefore it seems that in Christ
there was no acquired knowledge.

Crede experto. - 2 The most general formula, which every religion and
morality is based, called "the Thue and let this and that - so
you'll be happy! In the other case ..." Every morality, every
religion is imperative, - I call him the great original sin of
reason, the immortal unreason.

In my mouth transforms the formula into its reverse - first example
of my "Umwerthung all values as" a wohlgerathener man, a "Lucky", has
certain acts thun and are instinctively afraid before other actions,
he bears the organization which he represents physiologically in
his relations with people and things inside. In formula: his virtue
is the result of his happiness ... Long life, a large offspring is
not the reward of virtue, the virtue is much more even those slowing
of metabolism, which, among other things, including a long life,
an abundant offspring, shortly following the Cornarismus has. - The
church and morality say, "a gender, a race is by truck and luxury
to basically addressed."

My recovered reason says: when a nation is based, physiologically
degenerirt, then follow that vices and luxuries (ie the need
for ever greater and more frequent stimuli, as every exhausted nature
knows). This young man will soon pale and withered.

His friends say it is the fault and the disease. I say: that he was
sick that he had not resisted the disease, was the result of an
impoverished life, an hereditary exhaustion. The newspaper reader
says: this party is such a basic error. My higher politics says: a
party who makes such mistakes is at the end - it has its instinct
for security no longer exists. Every mistake in every sense, the
result of instinct-degeneracy of Disgregation of will: it is nearly
so definirt the Poor . Everything good is instinct - and, consequently,
easy, necessarily, freely. The hardship is an objection, the god is
typically different from the hero (in my language: the light feet,
the first attribute of divinity). 3 Irrthum a false causality. - It
has been believed at all times, to know what is a cause: but
where we took our knowledge, more precisely, our faith, to know here?
From the realm of the famous "inner Thatsachen", which is as
yet no thatsächlich proved. We thought ourselves in the act of
will cause, because at least we thought on the causation of That
to catch. Man insgleichen not be doubted that all antecedentia
any action, their causes, in the consciousness and had to seek
it is wiederfänden when they are looking for - as "motives": it
would otherwise not be released to her, for she was not responsible.
Finally, who would deny that a thought is caused? that the ego
causes the thought? ... Of these three "inner Thatsachen" with which
the causality seemed to promise, is the first and most convincing of
the will as the cause of the Conception of awareness ( "Spirit")
as the cause and later that of the I (the "subject" ) as the cause
is just after birth, after the determination of causation has been
established as empirical ...

Meanwhile, we have more considerate. We believe today is not a word
more of Allen. The "inner world" is full of fantasies and Irrlichter:
the will is one of them. The desire to move no more, hence explains
nothing - it merely accompanies events, he may also be missing. The
so-called "motif": a Irrthum else. Just a surface phenomenon of
consciousness, a side of That, the more nor the one That antecedentia
obscured than that it represents. And even I! This fable is
intended to become, for fiction, the word play: it has altogether
ceased to think, feel and want to ...

What are the consequences? It giebt no mental causes!
But the habit of infused knowledge is of a
different nature, as coming down to the soul from on high, and not
from phantasms. And hence there is no parity between these habits.
_______________________

QUESTION 10

OF THE BEATIFIC KNOWLEDGE OF CHRIST'S SOUL
(In Four Articles)

Now we must consider each of the aforesaid knowledges. Since,
however, we have treated of the Divine knowledge in the First Part
(Q. 14), it now remains to speak of the three others: (1) of the
beatific knowledge; (2) of the infused knowledge; (3) of the acquired
knowledge.

But again, because much has been said in the First Part (Q. 12) of
the beatific knowledge, which consists in the vision of God, we shall
speak here only of such things as belong properly to the soul of
Christ. Under this head there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the soul of Christ comprehended the Word or the Divine
Essence?

A small family history from those days may be here to serve us with
the immigration and the advancement of our fellow countrymen to
remember.

In the archives of the City of London is a strange parchment codex
from the second half of the 13th Century, its author, the only
modestly in the third person of himself talking about a brief history
of its origin giebt.

In the last Decennien of the 12th Century, he says, was a man of
Arnold Grevinge
named, born in the city of Cologne, came to England and his wife
who told Ode.

They had been childless, and would be immediately after their landing
on the grave of the murdered in 1170 and as a saint venerated
wunderthätigen Archbishop Thomas Becket to Canterbury gewallfahrtet
to the intercession of the martyr to posterity to crave.

Would they have a son a gift, so they wanted him dedicate the
service of God, he should be a monk in the famous monastery at
Canterbury, the once working under Thomas Becket.

Arnold moved to London and it was his business after he received two
children, a son, whom he thanks for the prayer of his Erhörung named
Thomas and a daughter, Juliane. Thomas was now not a monk, he instead
took the cross and followed in the year 1203 the Schaars of
Count Baldwin of Flanders to Constantinople. The revenue of the Greek
Empire on that strange crusade, he is missing. His sister Juliane
heirathete to London but a land man, Thedmar, born in the city of
Bremen.

They were parents of children eilf, and that they went well,
illuminates the fact that her four daughters in the Verheirathung
on the shining have been equipped. One of her sons, Arnold named,
is the author of the old parchment book, which I have mentioned,
and also a man who, in moving his body a great era in the history of
the city of London has played.

He was one of the 12 Aeltermänner of the city and also preserved in a
faithful and grateful remembrance of his ancestry to the respect of
his fellow countrymen, it also Aeltermanne and its Board Gildhalle
minded. During the struggle with the barons of King Henry III. On
which the democratic element in the city was eager Antheil, he
held to be strictly conservative the prince several times, he has
significant assets from his high penalties to pay, once floated
even be life in danger.

He is then in high esteem and high elderly over 90 years old died. In
the no question of his own written book, he told much of the Roman
kings, Richard, near which he personally seems to have stood, and
where it is certainly the major privileges for his fellow countrymen
from the German Seestädten supported, also does it with particular
Theilnahme the election of Count Rudolf von Habsburg of the Roman
kings, through which the shattered abroad to Germany but in something
came back to honor.

These few lines from the life of an English origin Aeltermanns Bremen
grant us a picture of the manner in which it industrious German
immigrants and their descendants succeeded to the English home soil
and her life to be happy, they also show how in a family, as an example
of the entire German colony trade, the Cologne and the origin of
hanseatic Heirath came to reconciliation. henceforth lived the merchants
from the Rhine and the North Sea and Baltic Sea harmless to
each other and enjoyed together the major Gildhalle attached to their
privileges.

In their busy Thätigkeit them came the English are not yet equal,
richer than they were alone in Italian changer, which was up to this
day still Banquierhäusern filled Lombard Street inhabited. The
usurious transactions abhold, operated the Germans on the other
hand, almost exclusively to the transportation and on their own
ships, they, the raw products from Norway and Russia, as well as
from Spain and Portugal the fruit of the south one.

A significant recovery of their trade was done at the beginning of the
Government of the mighty shiny King Edward III. The big long fight,
the prince of this the crown of France, required quite extraordinary.
His close relationships with the German Emperor Louis IV and the Dutch
prince directed his gaze homes because of political factors and
commerzieller compounds exclusively soon after the rich. In the
summer of 1338 Edward went to the Rhine itself, remained in Cologne,
where he also completed the choir of the cathedral anstaunte beautiful
and richly presented, and negotiated with his brother the emperor
in Koblenz. But after a few years exceeded his own country demanded
war taxes accessible to the same forces, a massive North took the
money market in England, Flanders and Italy, the heart of the
Italian exchange, the famous bard of Handelssocietät to Florence,
fallirte in their state of the Conto King of England with a million
gold florins contacted.

This moment, the wise use Hansen to hear again and again, they are
the king in his North has jumped. Wool and leather formed then we know
the most lucrative products of the pieces in so many blessed England;
after solid protective tariffs established trade policy of the King
was before all the wool during the war with France after only one
direction, to Flanders to be executed. Nobody else was appropriate
as the Hansen after the
rich Flemish towns to ship the finished scarves and witness then
went on Cologne from all further inland.

For such concession stretched the members of the German Gildhalle
always new totals before.

The houses of the rich Tidemann of Limborg, the brothers Kaula, the
clippings and A. had a role in London as currently Rothschild and
Baring.

As a pledge was actually managing the starting duties in the port
cities in their hands, those of Tidemann Limborg received on a number
of years the precious tin mine in the county of Cornwall, to the shelf
of the Prince of Wales were, transferred.

The crown Eduards Krönungsgeschmeide and his wife were long time in the
city of Cologne moved, according to a still state archives of the
London Towers to existing Correspondenz was the king, as these
precious pledges become due, not in a position to solve them, because
those stretched Stahlhofsgenossen again to suggest new totals, the
jewels had come to England and presented them to the kings back.

Always has new ER 20 or 30,000 Pfd. Sterl. those houses include sums
which then fully Werth today only by a multiplication with 15 can
recognize. It is therefore the major battles of the Black Prince, the
victories of Cressy and Poitiers in no small measure to the
diligence and Hülfe German German capital has been won, our country
people are not shy been so great services by major new privileges
to reward their Faktorei leave.

The beginning of the 15th Century is about the culmination hansischer
power and also the flowers of Stahlhof to London. Soon, the
emergence of the Scandinavian empires come and Consolidirung of
Herzogthums Burgundy in the Netherlands completed a highly selfish
trading systems of the great cities of federal hazardous.

Also the relations with England were unfriendly Art recently had here,
despite the bad times, then in the battle of the red and white roses
on the island hereinbrachen, a local businessman efficient state
according to Italian and German models for large Reichthum developed.
At that time there has First Mercantile him that spirit of enterprise,
we are taking in all areas of the globe has the opportunity to admire.
A great guild acting abroad merchants also examined in the
German cities of the Baltic Sea, in Prussia and Livonia to be
admitted. But Hansen's exclusive attitude would not grant the
privileges which they themselves for centuries in Russia, Scandinavia
and England enjoyed. Many a Merchant Adventurer, how the members of
that Handelscompagnie called it, was on his property or even physically
hurt. Moreover, there were processes to reprisals and finally even
to hostilities. Several years wüthete a fierce Seekrieg from which
we in the current conditions of the Hanseatic to large British
shipping is difficult to make a presentation. One was a fleet of 108
sail, the whole of Riga in Lübeck and at home were on the return
from Spain, heavily laden with salt and citrus fruits, in the
English Channel upset. This was because the big mountain rider again
Lübeck revenge, daring long they crossed into the North Sea around
and took some excellent English Prize, with cloth and other full
worth Waar loaded. Suffering course of trade in Northern Europe
immensely; countries sighed in vain for peace and negotiated by the
governments of their envoys. Stubbornly passed the Hansen and allied
them with the Grand Master of Prussia to their old privileges, while
the British, because they do not like with like wanted to retaliate,
they demanded that they be now in England the same tax on wine and
wool should pay what from all other markets, the English visiting
strangers was levied.

They ruffled with hands and feet and were finally in the year 1469
by the royal courts to a fine of 13,520 Pfd. Sterl. verurtheilt.
Many members of the Stahlhof sat in prison, the old cooperative ran
their risk Corporationsrechte and always on the land to lose. At the
same time was in Schooße of the Hanseatic League itself strife
erupted: Cologne and the West squabbled with Lübeck and the Baltic
East.

A sudden fall before the time was not impossible, would not the
Westminster Parliament on the first hand of peace offered. The House
of municipalities settled in his efforts for amicable adjustment
of the dispute itself will not be swayed, as an armed ship from
Bremen, Hamburg and Gdansk, under the flag of Charles the Bold of
Burgundy einhersegelnd, several bodies of the English coast had been
incurred. Edward IV finally deserve the just praise In 1474 the Peace
of Utrecht to be brought to a position in which all Theilen
Genugthuung happened to Hansen, though, as far as the changing spatial
and temporal relationships allow legal possession and returned
undiminished are. In the same pleasure they have almost an entire
century remains, - that wonderful century in which humankind's discovery
of a large Continents and the Reformation of the Church has
experienced.

Before the discovery of America by Columbus, which will soon become
the Colonies of the Spaniards and Portuguese in the south, the
British and French in the north be added, are just the splendor of
Venice and Genoa and the power of the Hanseatic League in the Nordic
shadow underfoot. In the bold costumes Jürgen Wullenwevers, Lübeck
again from Northern Europe were to have a short period are not yet
refined movements of the mind with the kirchenverbessernden Mercantile
policy crossed, once the idea flickered to a hanseatic
world, but quickly fell into deaf flame collapses. Meanwhile, were the
World Trade and the company spirit of European nations have very
different ways have been opened so far entirely unknown products
were necessarily living on the needs of mankind, to the frail body
of the vehicles in which you previously in the Mediterranean, the
Baltic Sea and the Atlantic shores trade-driven, others were quite
formidable force ships.

The Hanseatic League had survived, and the size of their
vessels had grown, they were no longer as before by the London
bridge, sailing and quiet before her Stahlhof lay at anchor.
Nevertheless steiften they are in completely changing circumstances
at the time of her old letters privileges granted to any Englishmen
in the Heimath what they themselves enjoyed in the stranger. So when
once, especially on imperial imperative, English Unterthanen
from Elbing and Stade were driven out, understood the great Queen
Elizabeth no fun. She let her admirals of Drake and Norris, in
which the proud Spaniards on the coasts of the old and new world
to tremble learned in a short period some 60 hanseatic ships and
distributed
by Royal Decret of January 1598, the German guild comrades from
the Stahlhof.

The buildings and yards are the same then being a Admiralitätsmagazin
been used to get to Hamburg and Lübeck to understand the Merchant
Adventurers, under the same conditions to be incorporated to the
Hansen in London have been granted.

From then on, they have their old Besitzthum so good it went back
to Nutz made up of a great conflagration, in 1666 the most important
city in ash Theil London appealed.

Solo before I exits from the Stahlhof talking about, it's time, as
far as possible, the buildings and the life and goings of those
who once was gehaust to portray. The land, which we can not say with
certainty why, Stahlhof the states had in the That, especially in
the medieval London, a great location. Only a little above
London Bridge, which until recent times in the single bridge in the
city, not too far from the stock market and the Cathedral, just yards
from his wide at the far inland rivers to the south side of
Thamesstreet; in the west, it receives Dowgate Lane, whose name is
still on the old Wasserthor reminiscent of London, in the east of
Allerheiligengäßchen delineated.

The original yard was small enough, but then there are the 14th and
15th centuries, several stately homes and buildings of the
neighborhood hinzugekauft been. As soon as the same at each other, was
a solid, the requirements of a medieval building cooperative
appropriate that compare well with the Artushof to Gdansk, the
Rumeney to Soest and other similar buying old buildings.

Especially must the stately northern fronts after Thamesstreet same
except that in several storeys, with three round iron fittings securely
deposited gates, each of which with a meaningful inscription versehn
was rich.

After the one offering this house: joy and abundance of all goods,
peace, calm and respectable lust after is the second gold of the
charming father Arts and the son of toil and the third threatened the
one who breaks the breeding, with the deserved punishment . High above
the roof but spreitete the double eagle of the empire from its
wings.

Strong walls surrounded the ring as a small fortress in the middle of
town and village have some opportunity for the residents protection.
Sometimes it was a crude rabble raufsüchtige shore of the Thames, with
the strangers whose language is incomprehensible and whose dress
and appearance was striking, Controversy started. But even with the
large collection of Communiste serfs and the lowest yeast population
of the English under the terrible demagogues Wat Tyler in 1381, where
no one who is one rank or enjoyed possession, his life was safe,
Hansen was the only behind its walls bergen, while including the
Flanders and other strangers to clusters have been slain. The
buildings, the walls of this castle-like enclosed were some art high
above the rest stood particularly the large hall up and they served
at the general meetings as Rathscheck office; in the traditional,
often recurring celebrations were held here and the Schmausereien
banquet instead. About the high chimneys and the artificially ornate
Gesimms were denser in the number plastered shiny silver and tin
dishes, Prachtgeräth of the Corporation, and shall include such things
may be, as we are still in guild Hanseatic houses for you, some
strange Zierrath from the stranger have found . Of particular values
as they must have been two paintings, which are reflected in the art
like Heimath supported by a German country man, the famous master
Hans Holbein had made.

They presented as counterparts in allegorical guise of Reichthums the
triumph and the triumph of Armuth dar. On one side of the hall stood
a Thurm, the Threse or treasury in which the parchment documents,
and especially worth full jewels and works of art stored on the
other was a stone spacious kitchen, where ample dimensions for lunch
at the Old and feast was provided. Between the hall and the wall on
the west side was a garden in which the Germans after their needs
and some of Heimath herübergeführte vineyards and fine fruit trees
were planted. On summer evenings she used to work there for the rest,
while the younger people at the ball game, and similar pleasures
feasted. In long rows, but the extended memory, the stalls and shops
to the river and took by far the largest area of land one. Here, the
individual purchasing the German teams hanseatic their Comptoir,
here they piled into their regularly prescribed Abtheilungen on
Waar. This then limited yards wide with a large crane where in the
Fluth the waves of the Thames hinaufschlugen and the ships and their
cargoes could easily create. That was really a place in world where,
before one of the only American products suspected something, the
main needs of the people and were invited. From Norway, Russia,
Poland and the territories of the Grand Master in Prussia was
iron, wood, hemp, tallow, wax and fur introduced the Baltic Sea
itself supplied in large masses of their fish, especially the Häring,
who had not yet emigrated to other waters was to be considered special
delicacies and many sturgeon shiploads full Stockfish, with which the
Englishman is at the field trains to feed its troops maintained. Also
included among Waar sometimes living beings, particularly rare
Edelfalken Livland from Norway or what the English game with all
the passion performing Adel paid large sums of money.

From the forth coming from Rheine ships saw some substantial Stückfaß
noble wine auswinden, towels and linen, fine and coarse, particularly
in Flanders came across. The traffic with Spain and Portugal joined
directly to the oriental trading nations operating in southern Europe
and gave the injection of all sorts of goodies such as figs, dates,
almonds, Zimmt, colors, noble Specereien, Medicament, metals and even
gold dust and jewels. Of such things, Hansen sold the less well
to their English business friends, they transported them to Hamburg
and Lübeck, Bergen and Riga. The Englishman, but they bought the
products of its livestock and its agriculture, wool and strong
Rindshäute, grain, beer and cheese from. On the Stahlhof That
are in the article in the trade all the known world have been implemented
and loaded.
And hence it is that even amongst men one sees
a conclusion in a medium more perfectly than another does. And in
this way the soul of Christ, which is filled with a more abundant
light, knows the Divine Essence more perfectly than do the other
blessed, although all see the Divine Essence in itself.

Reply Obj. 2: The vision of the Divine Essence exceeds the natural
power of any creature, as was said in the First Part (Q. 12, A. 4).
And hence the degrees thereof depend rather on the order of grace in
which Christ is supreme, than on the order of nature, in which the
angelic nature is placed before the human.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above (Q. 7, A. 12), there cannot be a
greater grace than the grace of Christ with respect to the union with
the Word; and the same is to be said of the perfection of the Divine
vision; although, absolutely speaking, there could be a higher and
more sublime degree by the infinity of the Divine power.
_______________________

QUESTION 11

OF THE KNOWLEDGE IMPRINTED OR INFUSED IN THE SOUL OF CHRIST
(In Six Articles)

We must now consider the knowledge imprinted or infused in the soul
of Christ, and under this head there are six points of inquiry:

(1) Whether Christ knows all things by this knowledge?

(2) Whether He could use this knowledge by turning to phantasms?

(3) Whether this knowledge was collative?

(4) Of the comparison of this knowledge with the angelic knowledge;

(5) Whether it was a habitual knowledge?

(6) Whether it was distinguished by various habits?
_______________________

FIRST ARTICLE [III, Q. 11, Art. 1]

Whether by This Imprinted or Infused Knowledge Christ Knew All Things?

Objection 1: It would seem that by this knowledge Christ did not know
all things. For this knowledge is imprinted upon Christ for the
perfection of the passive intellect. The Later, the Motivirung, is first
seen, often with hundreds of individuals, as in the flash pass the
shot follows ... What happened? The performances, which produced a
degree of being, were the same as the cause misunderstood. - Thatsächlich
we make it in the guards as well. Our most general feelings - every
kind of inhibition, pressure, tension, explosion in the game and
play against the institutions, such as in particular the condition
of the nerve sympathicus - excite our cause shoot: we want a reason
to us and so on are - we are too bad or good to find.

It is never enough for us, just simply the Thatsache that we are so
and so, determine: we let these Thatsache only - be aware - if its a
kind Motivirung gave. - The memory, which in such case, without
our knowledge, in Thätigkeit occurs, leads former states of the
same type and the associated deformed Causal interpretations upward
- not their causality. The belief of course, that the ideas underlying
the processes of consciousness accompanying the causes were
determined by the memory also brought up.

Thus, there is a habituation to a particular interpretation
of the causes, which in reality an exploration of the cause,
and even exclude inhibits 5.

Psychological explanation. - Something unknown to something familiar
to lead, facilitate, soothes, satisfies, giebt also a feeling of
power. With the unknown is the risk of unrest, where the concern, -
the first instinct is that this embarrassing states away. First
principle: any explanation is better than none. Because it is
basically just a Loswerdenwollen stifling of ideas that takes it not
just strictly with the means to get rid of: the first idea with which
the unknown than known states does so well that it "holds true for ".
Evidence of lust ( "The Force") as the Criterium of truth. - The
causes of train-related and is therefore excited by the feeling
of fear.

The "Why?" if possible, not only the cause to give their own sake, but
rather a kind of cause - a soothing, liberating, facilitating cause.
That something already familiar, experienced, registered in the memory
as the cause, that is, is the first consequence of this need. The
New, the Unerlebte, the stranger is excluded as the cause. - It
is not just one kind of explanation as the cause sought, but a
selected and preferred type of statements which, where the
fastest, most often the feeling of the stranger, new, Unerlebten
weggeschafft has been - the most common explanations. - Result: a
kind of cause-setting outweighs increasingly concentrirt itself to
the system and is finally out dominant, which means other
causes and explanations simply exclusive. - The thought immediately
Banquiers's "business" of Christ to "sin", the girl of his love. 6 The
whole field of morality and religion belongs under this concept of
imaginary causes. - "Explanation" of disagreeable general feelings.

But after
the state of this life the separated soul will be able, in a measure,
to know separate substances by itself, as was said in the First Part
(Q. 89, AA. 1, 2), and this is especially clear as regards the souls
of the blessed. Now before His Passion, Christ was not merely a
wayfarer but also a comprehensor; hence His soul could know separate
substances in the same way that a separated soul could.

Reply Obj. 3: The knowledge of singulars pertains to the perfection
of the intellective soul, not in speculative knowledge, but in
practical knowledge, which is imperfect without the knowledge of
singulars, in which operations exist, as is said _Ethic._ vi, 7.
(File Seville University, book 1. Diligencias º Collation and
lesser degrees, from 1570 until 1574.) This subject is, as columbré
ten years, the same license Dueñas, poet more than reasonable,
the author of eleven compositions collected in Mexico in 1577, under
the title of _Flores varies poesía_
(Biblioteca Nacional de Madrid, Ms. 2973), and the same who spoke
to graduates Francisco Pacheco, from Jerez like him, in his interesting
composition entitled _The satire apologetics in defense of the
divine Dueñas_, written in 1569, annotated by me and published in
the _Revista Archives, Libraries and Museos_ (1907-1908).

Écija moved from his marriage, there lived poorly practiced law and
raising other children, including Diego, born in 1586 and poet like
his father and his brother, dressed and wearing his family trust,
which is good I found some sample script in that file protocols,
to search for documents Cervantinos (Antonio Trapel, Book 1.

No. 1588, fol. 1899), and composing from time to time as is the
Latin epigram, as he made in praise of Don Alvaro de Bazán, Marquis
of Santa Cruz, for _Comentario shortly militar_ discipline compendium,
written by graduate Mosquera de Figueroa (Madrid, Luis Sanchez,
1596).

Negrete Doña Francisca de Santander was the daughter of licensed
Diego de Santander, a native of Mountains, and Doña María de Medina,
Écija neighbors. Negrete and Santanders of these, some had negotiated
in the Indies, and other studies were male, as evidenced by the
various data collecting: Dr. Pedro de Santander and his wife doña
Inés Melgarejo, residents of Seville, the son of Dr. Negrete was
dispatched to New Spain with his family, to mediate before the
sixteenth century (Archivo General de Indias, Licenses passenger
1534 and 1554 (43, 2, 1 / 5), No. relationship. 74 notebook 9. º ).

On September 25th 1553, Diego de Santander Negrete, a resident
of Seville, the son of Bernardo Negrete Santander and Adalid Isabel
Gomez, was dispatched by merchant for three years for land and
Popayán (_Ibid._, at the end of the first sheet). The bachelor Juan
de Santander, a native of Ecija, tested on March 17, 1554 have
earned a course of medicine, "hearing from the doctor and the doctor
Gudiel ferrer (Archive University Osuna, Test Course, fol.'

s Notebook 6 that year) and May 4th of 1555 proved another at the
Universidad Complutense (Alcalá University Archives, now at the
National Historical Evidence of courses from 1540 to 1555, fol.
VTO 714.). With the name of Juan Antonio de Santander, graduated
in Medicine at the University May 16 1555, and repeated in Osuna
to graduate, was assigned points, made the secret examination and
was conferred the degree on August 28 1568, Ph.D.

May 16th 1569 (Register 1. fifth grade, fol. 22 of that year) in the
presence of the Duke of Osuna Pedro Girón, his son Juan, the Marquis
of Peñafiel, Don Alonso Tellez Girón, natural brother of the Duke
and many doctors and teachers.

At the university he graduated in Bachelor of Arts, to July 28, 1587,
Alonso de Santander (Registration 2. Th Grade, fol. 28 this year)
also natural Écija, who again found in Alcalá winning a course of
scholastic theology in May 8th 1590. (File university of Alcala, proof
courses 1590 to 1593, fol. 21 of that year.) And, finally, a figure
Pedro de Santander, for the return of the white meat, including
dignitaries, canons, and Racionero chaplains of the cathedral of
Seville in the year of 1596 (Archivo Municipal de Sevilla, Own
Book, June 12 seats in 1597). The perks, likely debt of Luis
Velez de Guevara, who was perhaps made him enter the palace Paje
don Rodrigo de Castro, cardinal archbishop of Seville.] [Note 5:
This came to say Cervantes in the day. III _The great sultana doña
Catalina de Oviedo_ "... hidalgo, but not rich: curse of our century,
it seems to be poor to be annexed is noble. "] [Note 6: In 1902 I
sent from Seville copy of the minutes of this degree to Don Felipe
Pérez y González, in which said book, pp. 132 and below, the curious
can read it.]

[Note 7 _Las Reyes Católicos wedding of Don Felipe III of Spain and
Margarita of Austria, held in the great city of Valencia.
Hence there was no
discursive or collative knowledge in Him.

Obj. 3: Further, the knowledge in Christ's soul was like that of
comprehensors, who are likened to the angels, according to Matt.
22:30. Now there is no collative or discursive knowledge in the
angels, as Dionysius shows (Div. Nom. vii). Therefore there was no
discursive or collative knowledge in the soul of Christ.

You understand me - Alonso. I beg you, stop it, you maintain a conversation
with me for nothing. Gonsalo. That I think your majesty, and
I that it is merely to beyden these gentlemen an opportunity to laugh,
because they have so irritable and delicate lungs that they always
have to laugh at nothing to maintain.

Antonio. We laughed at you. Gonsalo. In this kind of Spaßhaftigkeit
is nothing against you, so you can go ahead, nothing to laugh about.
Antonio. This has Seyn be a slap in the face? Sebastian. If they
had not fallen apart Bey. Gonsalo. Seyde your tapfre Gentlemen, you
would the moon from his circles lift when he was only five weeks in
a row without a decline would seem. (Ariel appears, the person
speaking invisible, with a serious and einschläfrenden music.)
Sebastian. That we wanted to, and then the bird Heerde. Antonio (to
Gonsalo.) No, my good Lord, will not be evil. Gonsalo. I stand before
you, that I gescheidt'm on your invasions to be angry. Will ye me
laugh in the bedroom? because I'm quite sleepy. Antonio. Go, sleep,
and listens to us. Alonso. How? All have fallen asleep! Close My
eyes also, they want to close my thoughts at the same time! Sebastian.
Sire, again is not the slumber of you offers. He rarely visited
the grief, and if he's does, he is a comforter. Antonio.

We zween, Gracious Lord, however, that you want the rest geniesset,
for your security monitor. Alonso. I thank you - a wonderful
drowsiness! - (All flaccid, except Sebastian and Antonio.)
Sebastian.

What a strange frenzy is, of their bemeistert? Antonio. Clima The
nature of the cause must be Seyn.

Sebastian. Why then sink our Auglieder not it? I do not feel the least
sleepy. Antonio. I do not, my spirits are quite frisky. They were all
out as if it had abgeredet with one another, they fell by as struck
by lightening. What could
be decent Sebastian - O!

what could be - nothing more - and yet, seems me, I see it in your
face, what you should Seyn.

The opportunity to say it to you, and my imagination Force sees a
crown on your head float.

Sebastian. How? you awake? Antonio. Do you hear me, because not
talking? Sebastian. I hear you, but it is truly a sleeping speeches,
you talk in your sleep. What, you said? It's a strange bed, with
weitofnen eyes to sleep, stand, talk, move, and yet so hard eingeschlaffen
Seyn! Antonio. Edler Sebastian, you leave your Glük sleep. Stirb dear!
you awake with eyes geschloßnen. Sebastian. You snore understandable,
it is important in your snoring.

Antonio. I'm serious as is my habit. Seyde even so, if I may Rathen
you, and it will be your Glük Seyn, Rathen you to leave. Sebastian.
Well, I am standing water. Antonio. I will teach you flow. Sebastian.
The Thue; to teach me my angeerbte inertia .

Antonio. O! if you only wißtet how much you love my proposal, whether
you like him to reject you as more and more inside verwikelt, the more
you wind seems to be loss. Slow people are often characterized by its
inertia only Zagheit or the faster to the bottom draw. Sebastian. I
pray thee, speak clearly.

Your Blik and thy glowing cheek proclaim that you have with any big
projects going pregnant, that you're so full that you are no longer
zurükhalten kanst. Antonio. Here it is, Prince. Despite these
courtier, weak memory (it is certainly his little thought, when
he once eingescharrt is) the king has persuaded beynahe (because
he is a spirit of persuasion, he can be nothing else than to talk
about) that his son still alive, so is it is so impossible that he
was not killed in the water should Seyn than that of the floats,
which is asleep.

Sebastian. I have no hope that he lives with them came Seyn wants.
Antonio. O tells me nothing of hope - What Hope it's great for
her - not the hope ligt in this way, there is an else, to a lead
as high hope that the ambition Blik then does not, without at the
Würklichkeit of what he sees to doubt. Will you give me acknowledge
that Ferdinand is umgekomen? Sebastian. I think it is. Antonio. So
tell me then, who is the next heir of Naples? Sebastian. Claribella.
Antonio. See which is Queen of Tunis, and the toes miles behind an
old man lives, and that of Naples, rather than a message can
have, (because it would be that the sun of Postillion Seyn wanted,
the man in the moons would be too slow) Kinne bearded neugebohrne
to have it for their sake we have been swallowed by the sea,
although some who were again ejected by that random chance might
take a scene to play, which the previous ones is the Prologus;
Sebastian.

Therefore He had an actual and not a
habitual knowledge of what He knew.

Obj. 3: Further, habitual knowledge is a perfection of the knower.
But perfection is more noble than the thing perfected. If, therefore,
in the soul of Christ there was any created habit of knowledge, it
would follow that this created thing was nobler than the soul of
Christ. Therefore there was no habitual knowledge in Christ's soul.

_On the contrary,_ The knowledge of Christ we are now speaking about
was univocal with our knowledge, even as His soul was of the same
species as ours. But our knowledge is in the genus of habit.
Beuthien proven its strength in the automatic power meter and found
some younger still in shadow, only Tetje with his big hands, they
were all superior.

The women's room crowded around the Elektrisierapparat. The tingling
in every nerve seemed to prepare them pleasure. That was a chatter
and screech. Only the Wittfoth dared not approach. Studt Winches, an
eighteen year old beauty with pale stump nose, was from her
fiancé, a draftsman at the City Bureau, fed with chocolate. She
was an important personality today, because they should have
something to present. In the meadow attracted swing, gymnastic
equipment and a mountain railway. Notably, the latter exerted a
great attraction to the ladies from. Even the Wittfoth could not resist
and slipped Beuthiens in society, without which they are not
married, several times under Gekreisch back and forth.

It was too beautiful, really beautiful, like all moments insured.
And then later in the concert hall . "The Swiss homesickness,
eight zithers argued earned the biggest applause. "Entzückend", Mr
Caesar Puhvogel "of the Alpine love plea" on the Elegiezither.
But the greatest admiration was Mr. Sweet for the presentation of the
popular song "In the deep-seated basement I am here." In all the
singing clubs spoke of the phenomenal bass of Mr. Sweet . How
Orgelton and bell sound Ertönet our sweet 'singing was once a
eulogist on toasted him. Studt Winches Also, in a white dress with
pink sash, declaimed "The singer curse" of Uhland very good with
understanding and feeling.

Especially to the Final sensitivities caused by the the listeners a
soft goose bumps. As with the grave voice recitierte Winchester:
"Versunken and forget that the singer is a curse," with significant,
almost painful linger on the first syllable of the "singer." Such
a pleasure wife Caroline had not had time. "Who would have viewed the
girl "said she," and then the whole thing, which many zithers. And
was'n voice, his sweet Lord who was wanted for what Pollini. "As we
left the hall, waited out a new surprise to the company.

Colored lanterns were among the tall trees and be granted a
delightful sight. In the meadow, but had the title "honorary
guest" present solo vocal quartet of the "steadfast" up, and
solemnly sounded across it from there: "This is the day of the Lord."
The conclusion of the festival made a dance, but with a Polonaise
outdoors, through the "dark stick" trees was opened. Anyone got a floor
lamp, the men in red, the ladies in white paper. "Wi sünd Hanseatic,"
said Tetje. How beautiful it all was, how beautiful. sun, moon
and The
stars, I go with my lantern.

But as a small light lit in the distance not.

Mr. Mehlberg, Winchester Studt fiancé, his bride at a bend, where
he was unsighted believed kissed.

But it had been noted and a giggle and joke ran through the entire
chain of Promenierenden. The leading pair was in high spirits the
way by a dry moat. That was a conversation and Inge Gehüpfe
a Gekreisch and laughter. Mrs. Caroline dared not the fairly steep
slope down. trippelte frightened her and lifted her dress. In
Beuthien ditch but stood with his lantern and sang: "Come down, O
Virgin Mary Therese", for the nachdrängenden Gaudium.

Finally, he urged with a firm grip the timid to an unwanted jump, and
went on laughing and joking. No, that was nice was unprecedented.
Caroline was not alone with this ruling. And it was so "scary"
in the dark forest. "There are still no snakes?" asked the little
woman once fearful. "Ne, but Katteker," returned the incorrigible
Tetje.

Längst Caroline was already in the spring, when their dreams are still
the lanterns as big firefly flits. "No, what I've amused myself
yesterday say I can not, "she said the following morning to Therese
and Mimi.

Eight days, eight weeks later, she still spoke with the same warmth
of this wonderful day, and the farther he zurücklag, the more
inclined they had him as one of the most beautiful of their lives to
praise. XV.

Also for Therese and Mimi was this Sunday been amusing. Hermann had
set early enough to be the aunt a greeting with the handkerchief
waving after them. The steam-boat to Buxtehude drove until
about half past eight clock from the jetty in St. Pauli from.
Without rushing, it was impossible to train with the horses go there.
As soon as you enter one of the ship fell into a lively society.
A medium-sized Mr. breitrandigem with Panama hat, white linen
skirt, gray legs and light yellow dress leather shoes formed the
core of a group of smoking, chattering tidier-looking and very
young men. The arrival Hermanns and broke the women's entertainment.

Mimi immediately drew all eyes upon himself. The Lords ventilated and
gave the hats with exaggerated, courtesy geckenhafter the way. "Ah,
Miss Kruse," cried the Lord suddenly surprised in white and with
poorly concealed embarrassment. "Sass Miss you too?" he turned to
Therese. "Mr. Pohlenz! God, no, how funny," chuckled Mimi. Hermann
recognized among the other young people a beer friend.

The welcome was more intimate, they joined together and was not tired
of these random encounters witticisms considerations to be made.
Hermann would prefer to stay with the girl alone remained.

He foresaw that Mimi him hours to the attention of other would be
withdrawn. If not, he wanted to follow Buxtehude that society. On
board was a yes now even without the other. Therese, too was initially
a bit embarrassed by Mimis triumphs affected. They treat her without
envy, and had not seen reluctantly, she would so much of the stranger
claimed that Hermann more on their , Therese, society would be. She
saw the zeal already addicted to the discontent.

Hermanns Since open confession to the aunt, Therese was in the habit
of thought, Mimi as his secret bride to be.

It was a successful, pain and jealousy niederzukämpfen,
a slight feeling of Mimi enemy to defeat.

So, this success was also the pretty girlfriend of the male
Fahrgesellschaft no emotions in their base pay, although they are
painfully felt, again have to stand back .

Only when they order not to be overlooked, mastered their mood, and
ease of maintenance involved, as you often take their comments and
ideas, attention was funny, they also found their account in this
transformation of the program, which replaces a trio such a polyphonic
symphony began.

The selected courtesy of the small company was soon Mr. explained
and justified.

Mr.

Pohlenz had in the city lottery made a well-known
hits, forty thousand marks were him fall.

Well played the lucky winner of the generous friend, and started
in the beginning of the trip all on board, captain and boat people
included, to maltreat.

Gloriole Behind the amiable Schwerenöter Therese disappeared even
in the eyes of the comic figure vertrösteten Free.

Of course it was Mr. Emil Pohlenz but actually quite nice, and Mimi
said, you can very often but in a deceiving people. The beautiful
weather that the seine, the ride through the narrow, vielgewundene
Este to a very pleasurable to make.

The bold, the beautiful summer jewelry prangenden cruise shore were
manifold, changing stimuli: width dikes, with lush plants
carpet curtain: Huflattich broad spread in proliferating, hochstielige
sheep sheaf with their crowns of white flowers, dispersed in between,
like a handful of gold, greasy, yellow flowers of buttercup.

On grass meadows of grazing cows. On the docks, behind the hedges
of the kind of fruit gardens, kichernde Rotwang country girls who
Kußhände countless jokes and words to them by the men from the boat
zuwarfen, brash responding were embarrassed or receiving. A Jewish
merchant, who was on board, made the local Cicerone and praised
the rich area in which it worthwhile to make maintenance operations.

And in the clean That betrayed sedate appearance of the individual
farms, both as the whole village, the reverse is often pushed to
the schilfumrauschte banks of the river ran, a dignified prosperity.
Even Hermann lost while driving his Mißstimmung.

But he hoped, in Buxtehude with the girls to be adopted. But he was
mistaken. The Lords wanted the company of ladies not to miss this
course did very well in so many circles Galanter knight, and because
it is through the adoption of many favors and kindness had
committed, was also Hermann finally if he does not want to appear rude,
only good face on bad game. heavy enough it was him. Jealous, he saw
how Mr. Pohlenz his full attention Miss Kruse research, and how Mimi
is felt flattered. However she was then delicately enough, Mr. Pohlenz
tactless invitation to lunch table with a reference to Herman's prior
rights to refuse. But those turned to Therese and chose his position
so that he had left to Mimi.

Between the two ladies seated, he showed as an interesting partner,
so that even now, Hermann has not yet been undiminished joy came Mimis
society. And so it remained. Even for the rest of the day was Mimi,
the Queen of all paid homage, and the pretty girls played their
assigned roles with skill and love of the thing. On his return to
Hamburg changed the weather. A light rain fell, but without the happy
society of the deck to distribute.

Stick Man spared the air of the narrow bunk. The most heated of
wine and mirth, felt little as a refreshing shower. Even Mimi Therese
and remained above the order not to disturb the general atmosphere.
They found enough protection behind the cabin wall, and a warm
blanket and drove it, in which the sensitive Therese could enshroud.
Had A man once said, one should also say B. Mr. Pohlenz fought even
after the arrival in Hamburg still vividly against a separation.
"You are my guests, you must stay," he cried. "Now it's only fidel."
And they stayed together, heard some songs in concert horn Hardt
garden, it was the opposition of individual defeat nor a glass of
beer Mittelstrass, a popular restaurant, and finally closed at a
late hour with a cup of melange in Görbe café.

XVI. A few days later it was in the neighborhood of the average of
nothing other than the engagement of the old Beuthien with the
widow Wittfoth, here with jealous disdain, then throwing
confident indie breast: we are not told. Several gleichgiltig,
as if it were the weather, others with a deepening in the subject,
as would be the natural
order of things and through the earth from now on ran the other
way around.

And you said no more of a rumor.

It was a Thatsache.

The old Beuthien really had the solid foundation of "Cyclamen"
with the necessary courage brought home, and Mrs. Caroline had recently
after schamhaftem balk, having regard to their advanced age, yes I
said. "If you want to be there, so I want your fortunately not in his
ways. "So far, about the final words were the little woman.

This was because even at the request of Mr. Pohlenz decided. The
customer of his lottery winning wife Caroline had, however,
inconclusive made after they are in their Hinundherwenden the
matter more for the rejection had decided.

For a period of forty thousand marks, but could have been little to
see. But if one with forty thousand marks not over across all saw?
About the widow Wittfoth for example? That was another question. Mrs.
Caroline was at all self-respect but not vain enough to corrupt what
Mr.

Pohlenz in a connection with her was, in her person wanted to have.
She had abandoned none of deception. In Beuthien but she was sure
that based on personal inclination was. When Mr. Emil Pohlenz of
Engagement Wittfoth the widow heard that, he was a stone from the
heart. Now, he was released the spurned.

Lotteriecollecteur When he won the captive had money, he knew what he
wanted. "After much deliberation and with full preservation of my
highest consideration and esteem, I can not close the insight."
So he thought, or similar to the beginning of his letter to the
Wittfoth. Of course he now no longer in town traveler Müller and
Lenze stay. But pending resolution of his contract, he still had his
business visits to the widow to continue. It was still very
embarrassed, but he could do so with the pride of the hurt, spurned
to join a role in which he was at forty thousand marks in the bag
would find it easy.

Another was added to him the way Eckkeller after the Wittfoth significantly
facilitated. On the trip to Buxtehude was a dormant passion in him
become awake. Already, he had always sought, the pretty girl in
the shop widow to come closer. But Mimi Kruse it was always cool to
go to the heart was, indeed repellent. Your love of dignity in the
comity Buxtehude, however, had awakened hopes in him. He gave himself
no illusions. He estimates it correctly. He knew what this wind flags
weather had turned. But he considered himself only the life of a
commercial standpoint. How much does it cost? What Mimi Kruse were
concerned, so he knew now that he is "afford" was that its "resources"
they "permitted". Why should they not buy? "When he Engagements
show the Wittfoth had received, he with a business visit to
the visit and congratulations to Mimi inquire how you would get
the exit. He asked for permission to run it once to be told by his
future plans, was implying that he may still be a small inheritance
from an aunt might expect, and made such an impression on Mimi, that
they "with pleasure" accepted his invitation . From now on Mr.
Pohlenz frequently to surprise wife Caroline, but not for long in
the dark about the predisposition to this business travelers zeal
of the city remained. She was offended by the equanimity with
which Mr. Pohlenz its loss, the loss of his "whole life happiness
, "as it was called, endured, and was indignant about Mimi.

Had they not Hermann" advances "made? And now with this band they are
fops, because he had money. What would Herman said the poor boy.
You might not remember. If not in these days of their betrothal
ceremony should be held only at the amused faces of wanted to see,
it would already Hermann eyes open. But afterwards he should
also not a moment longer than Mimis doubles remain in the dark. The
girls even dared not to make accusations. It was embarrassing her,
is burned to mix. If she wanted to play the indignant, would not
it look as if they have lost forty thousand marks annoyed? Like
greed, envy? No, they let the matter their race.

Hermann liked to see how he would finish with Mimi. In fact, it
would be just a lucky person if he is not to acquire. "Stitch she
did not," scolded them with you.

Hermann had Buxtehuder after the tour mißvergnügte few days.
Mimis free consultation, their kindness against Pohlenz, on the
other they do at every opportunity to ridicule their shell ausgoß
had him deeply detuned. More and more he came to the realization
of their superficial nature. But her sensuous charm he could
not escape. His
jealousy blinded his clear vision and confused his decisions.

This insipid limited Krämer soul should he soft?

Instead of fighting with the despised record, he is fiercely back,
and believed by Mimi neglect punish them.

But this penalty was only himself he suffered greatly. He longed to
see her, is to pronounce. But when he would run in the aunt once able
to speak without disruption? So he wanted to because they
ask for a meeting. But when they saw what he wanted and would not?
The best thing, he speaks with the same letter from her .

And so he wrote: Dear Miss! The feelings of my whole staff and I
are no longer condemned to silence, press the pen in my hand. Did I
need that is still out on what you, I know, no longer a secret can
be more? All my behavior against you should you have long since
proven how ineffably I love you, and that the ultimate goal of my
quest, the Luckily my life is you, dearest Mimi, my own to be. I
wanted to wait until Michaelis, to the improvement of my salary
before I before the decision.

But the head is thinking, and distracts the heart. And my heart belongs
to you, hochverehrtes, inniggeliebtes girls, whatever your response
fails. Spurn my love, you are mine, and make happy your nameless
hoping Hermann Heinecke. As Mimi read the letter, they first overcome
the feeling of a great consternation.

Now it was serious. But then came the vanity to speak. She read for
the second time and was now emotionally. He was a good person.
Namenlos should be happy they make it. My God, it is just something
beautiful about love.

They hid the letter in her pocket and broke into a sobbing from
oppressed. "Well, what about you because passirt?" asked the Wittfoth
to assist them in that outbreak they basically soft minds surprised.
"My friend is so ill," stuttered Mimi. "Is it to die?" asked Caroline.
"That is not," was the answer. "Well, because it is still time to
cry," consoled the Wittfoth. "I say yes," she thought, as Mimi soon
after their Thränen had dried. "Deep is nothing in the. Laughing and
crying in a breath." "Well, Miss," she said with quiet sarcasm, "it
is probably one half so bad?"

"Oh yes, I am just so shocked, terribly," said Mimi too. "Then
write now also be equal," said the Wittfoth good-natured. "Yes,
that I wanted, even tonight," said Mimi. And on the same evening
she wrote to Hermann: Dear Mr. Heinecke How flattering me Your letter
has touched worth, I certainly do not need only to say.

I respect you and think highly doubt that you are a woman so happy,
as it deserves, but take it not amiss to me, if after careful
consideration I have decided to bin your application is not worthy to
be able to accept, so like I would like this also. I feel right without
love is a sin if I wanted to say yes and in your heart I think
very differently. Not true, you forgive me my honesty? It is an
even harder step that you require of me, and life is so terribly
seriously. It does me, sorry, you need to thun hurt, but it still
giebt completely different girl than I am, and you will surely
once again as happy as you deserve.

Same wishes to you from your heart Mimi Kruse. She had written
this letter twice, since the first minutes verunzierte an oil stain.
She had the height of the lamp screws stained fingers and the
inverted arch these tainted letter.
Hence His body was rightly subject to the
impression of heavenly bodies; but His soul was not subject to the
impression of heavenly spirits.
_______________________

QUESTION 13

OF THE POWER OF CHRIST'S SOUL
(In Four Articles)

We must now consider the power of Christ's soul; and under this head
there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether He had omnipotence simply?

(2) Whether He had omnipotence with regard to corporeal creatures?

(3) Whether He had omnipotence with regard to His own body?

(4) Whether He had omnipotence as regards the execution of His own
will?
_______________________

FIRST ARTICLE [III, Q. 13, Art. 1]

Whether the Soul of Christ Had Omnipotence?

Objection 1: It would seem that the soul of Christ had omnipotence.
For Ambrose [*Gloss, Ord.] says on Luke 1:32: "The power which the
Son of God had naturally, the Man was about to receive in time." Now
this would seem to regard the soul principally, since it is the chief
part of man. Hence since the Son of God had omnipotence from all
eternity, it would seem that the soul of Christ received omnipotence
in time.

Obj. 2: Further, as the power of God is infinite, so is His
knowledge. But the soul of Christ in a manner had the knowledge of
all that God knows, as was said above (Q. 10, A. 2). Therefore He had
all power; and thus He was omnipotent.

Obj. 3: Further, the soul of Christ has all knowledge. Now knowledge
is either practical or speculative. Therefore He has a practical
knowledge of what He knows, i.e. He knew how to do what He knows; and
thus it seems that He can do all things.

_On the contrary,_ What is proper to God cannot belong to any
creature. But it is proper to God to be omnipotent, according to Ex.
15:2, 3: "He is my God and I will glorify Him," and further on,
"Almighty is His name." Therefore the soul of Christ, as being a
creature, has not omnipotence.

_I answer that,_ As was said above (Q. 2, A. 1; Q. 10, A. 1) in the
mystery of the Incarnation the union in person so took place that
there still remained the distinction of natures, each nature still
retaining what belonged to it. Now the active principle of a thing
follows its form, which is the principle of action. What was happening?
You can say it calmly! Was not quite something you? One must have a
reason but if you away! Has someone you done anything? "Edgar hesitated.
The memory made him angry again, he already wanted to indict.

Then he saw - and his heart stood still is - as his mother behind
the back of his father made a strange motion. A movement,
which he did not understand. But now she saw him, in their eyes was
an imploring plea. And quietly, very quietly lifted her finger to
his lips in the sign of silence. Because broke, the baby felt it, and
suddenly something warm, a huge wild happy through his whole body.
He understood that he is to guard the secret was that, at his young
children was a destiny lips.

And wild, jauchzender pride filled him that she trusted him, he is
suddenly overcome sacrifice, there's a will, his own guilt still
further, to show how much he already man. He raffte together:
"No, no ... there was no occasion. Mom was very good to me, but
I was naughty, I have behaved badly ... and da ... I am away,
because I had feared.

"His father looked at him stunned. He had expected anything, just not
this confession. His anger was disarmed. "Well, if you are sorry,
then already well-ists. Then today, I want nothing more to talk
about it. I think you will it to you another time but superior! That
such a thing does not happen again. "He stopped and looked at him. His
voice was softer now. "How pale you look. But it seems to me you're
already grown. I hope that you will no longer such Kindereien do,
you're not really a boy and could have more reasonable, "Edgar
looked at the whole time only to his mother. It was when something
sparkled in her eyes. Or was it just the reflection of the flame?
No, it shone bright and humid there, and a smile around her mouth
was, he said thanks.

They sent him to bed now, but he was not sad that it alone could. He
had so much to think about, so much color and Empire. All the pain
of recent days had passed by in the massive feeling of the first
experience, he felt happy in a mysterious premonition of future
events. Outside noisy in the dark trees in the darkened night,
but he knew no fear anymore. He was all impatience for the life
lost, since he knew how extensive it was. It was as if he had
it for the first time today, seen naked, no more hiding of a thousand
lies of childhood, but in all its voluptuous, dangerous beauty. He
had never thought to include day so full of shapes could be varied
by the transfer of pain and pleasure, and he welcomes the idea that
many more such days before he stands, a whole life waiting for him to
unveil his secret. A first clue to the diversity of life had
come over him, for the first time he believed the nature of the people
have understood that they needed each other, even if it seemed
hostile, and that it was very sweet of them to be loved. He was incapable
of anything or anyone with hate to think that he regretted nothing,
and even for the Baron, the seducer, his bitterest enemy, he
found a new sense of gratitude because he had opened the door to
this world The first feelings.
Reply Obj. 3: Christ's soul has practical and speculative knowledge;
yet it is not necessary that it should have practical knowledge of
those things of which it has speculative knowledge. Because for
speculative knowledge a mere conformity or assimilation of the knower
to the thing known suffices; whereas for practical knowledge it is
required that the forms of the things in the intellect should be
operative. Now to have a form and to impress this form upon something
else is more than merely to have the form; as to be lightsome and to
enlighten is more than merely to be lightsome. If I want to rise
to the intelligence and the cause sovereign over all corporeal
manifestations of his omnipotence, I have first to go up a thousand
degrees until the numen, and even then, from the
spring until the numen of the celeste and inexhaustable earth,
spirit and nature, there is a very painful journey.

For this, I have a shortcut, a trail, a hidden path and soon, where
I come, not the intelligence and facts, but more profound: One where
I get to abstraigo everything external to an echo side senses and
powers, delete pictures from fantasy, covered with dense fog
everything written in the memory, and sinking into the abyss of the
soul, which is found.

There, he and I got together. There he and I are not more than
One thus explained that, as mere mortal myself, is so regarded by
the gods.

In the lightness of character, typical of the serene bliss of them
do not fit these reconcentraciones power of the mind that lead me
to the One I've already said a thousand times: the vital principle
which governs my senses, not worth more than a dog by the rational
soul I stay low to the Olympic gods, but by the speculative and
intuitive intelligence, and I get to one very behind me to the
angels, the demons, the jinn and numen.

For the essential unity that is in me, and which is issued to
the intelligence attribute, I am the same One. The One I'm happy in
the moments of excitement, and the combination of ecstasy. .-- For
Hercules MARINO live teacher, who fills me with envy whenever I hear
you say that union through which you put in one or you identify with
the One I can think of, however, some difficulty. proclama .--
Explánala and we will decide. MARINO .-- Why, if you find the One,
hundiéndote into the abyss of the soul searching will pave nature?
Why are not always reconcentrado and live in eternity? .-- To proclaim
himself to imitate the One For You and I, besides being the One,
we are the Well.

It is not our law be in the center, completely absorbed in selfishness
and our contemplation of the ineffable essence. We must go out
to create and display assets. It and me arising out of the will,
intelligence and speech, and they create the world. One develops
the idea, and they appear to be, life and harmony and movement,
and how much and will be.

I unwrap my idea, and begin the art, religion and science. And
One and the creation of my creation and are confused and are committed
to be the same. Do you understand me now? MARINO .-- I knock your
clarity. With apellidarte rightly deserve the Supreme Pontiff
of all faiths, the great citizen of the republic and the file of
all metaphysical metaphysical.

No, proclamations, you are not a mortal. Proclama .-- In essence I am
not. In essence I am eternal. Seen in my unit, I live in
eternity primitive: that is, a stationary point in which all the
infinite duration of the centuries is stopped, and reconcentrada
encrypted. Considered at the apex of my mind, in intelligence, living
in eternity secondary stream of successive stock, perpetual
traffic movement without end, without a career goal, moving, and
not just process. .-- MARINE AND dime, teacher The slaughter that
would certainly do it at the One and salirte penetrate the mind and
speech and affection in this visible universe, what purpose then?

proclama .-- For several purposes, but the principal is of the
utmost transcendence. Divine law that follows the story I was raised
in time due to an important function. My spirit takes meat toward the
end of civilization as a whole to understand all harmonious. The
genius of Greece, with its typical and unique creations, with the
dreams of poets from now until Orpheus and Linus, with his philosophy
from Pythagoras to Jámblico with the discoveries of mathematicians,
astronomers and physicists, and lessons mysteries of Eleusis and
Samothrace, the genius of Greece, with the spoils ópimos brought from
Egypt, Persia and even India, after the conquests of Macedon, all
this work, this whole conglomeration of doctrines, experiments
and speculations have been merged into my head in hot oven or pot.
And fused the whole, I have discarded the dross by virtue of my critical
spirit, and I kept only the metal clean and pure. Finally, by virtue
plasmante that is in me as I emptied the metal into a mold, and I
have brought to light the refulgente and complete system of
ancient wisdom. The peoples of North and ended with the rule of
the West. The empire of the East also succumb. Soon come into barbarism.
The darkness of ignorance will cover the world. I will be, since
then until the dawn of a new and perhaps more rich civilization,
that beacon of light illuminates and guides the human lineage.

Yet all transmutations that
can be made in creatures can be made by the soul of Christ, as the
instrument of the Word, but not in its proper nature and power, since
some of these transmutations pertain to the soul neither in the order
of nature nor in the order of grace.

Centuries, a wine cellar where the wine from the Rhine to the gift
and snack smoked ox tongue, salmon and caviar were enjoyed. For
a full Glase included not only the gemüthliche, Mr. wohlhäbige
purchase of North Sea and Baltic Sea from his shop, the house
was under the Government of King James I., at a time when the world
is still not high after Westende had emigrated from London and much
in the city lived and operated a similar reputation as lying very
close to the bar, in which the thick Shakspere Falstaff and Prince
Harry dropped their leaves slurp champagne. Not only
the merchants were the good things in the Steel Yard for breakfast
taste, bishops and nobles, even the Lord Chancellor and distinguished
himself by secret Raether did not enter and then spurned by the
delicacy of strangers at cost.

Is repeated in the comedies from the days of Queen Elizabeth and
her successor, the best authorities for the then living in England,
it played.

_Let Us go to the Stilliard and drink Rhenish wine, _ says the
author of the Pierce Pennilesse.

And in plays by Webster says: I invite you to him this afternoon at
the home in the Rhenish wine Stahlhof to take you, and let a German
cake and a keg Caviar taste! Noteworthy enough still stands on the
same spots a big beer house based on his shields Steel Yard called
it a golden grape, as we have a lot in the old German cities
in the narrow alleys hineinragen see. Thus, after some change on the
site go, but here at least the name and trade unchanged, since,
as we saw Henry II to Cologne before 600 years there verstattete
their Rhine wine for sale.

But it almost looks as I would only eat and drink to tell, as if
our fellow countrymen in England, whose employment, however, very
physical nature, preferably like those pleasures transported. But
they also lacked not to lust for other things, they showed
themselves in their attention to the aphorisms, how Reichthum good
taste and joy of creating my art and have they even gave their
artistic occasion their fellow countrymen hall with beautiful images
to decorate.

Even higher and more serious feelings held in them by their Christian
faith alive, so the citizens of the Ehrsam German imperial
and Hanseatic cities always have many bethätigt. Especially the
abenteuernde, life-threatening Seaman risky life and fueled
speculation of merchants, especially in the pre-times, a conventional,
simple piety, the industrious visits of worship and all sorts of
foundations in their expression was kind.

Strangely enough, we find from a chapel in London's own Stahlhof hardly
a trace, the cooperative was against the neighboring parish of
All Saints eingepfarrt. This church, All Saints, the Major called early
appears under the name of the sailor's church. Although the message
that the Germans if they had donated, not confirm it, then hung it
on several occasions with her. They carry probably a suitable altar,
dedicated to special celebrations, the long wax candles, and
left at certain festivals they donated book fairs.

Even the Reformation, this band, which is quite obviously proves how
deeply here since ancient times of being German mixed with English
was not relaxed. Admittedly, the Germans seem to the new, purified
doctrine slowly and cautiously assumed to have, because as in 1526
by the famous Catholic zealous Chancellor Sir Thomas More in the person
they Haussuchung according to the writings of Luther had been, they
found only old and new testaments , Gospels and German prayer books,
themselves, old and young were still in good conscience on the Cross
in the churchyard of St. Paul swear that is not among them heretics
hold. Soon after the Reformation triumphed in England, as in most
belonging to the Hanseatic cities, and dwelt Stahlhofsgenossen
from now on the English-Protestant worship in ancient Allerheiligen
at.

There they had several long rows of old Gestühle that they even after
the great fire Nöthiger have become renewed reconstruction. Several
ornate stained glass in painted windows, where as the center of the
imperial eagle Double-headed/Imperial not missing, they are also
donated.

Even after the fire, they have the church still preserved and much
admired carving made of durable oak gift to the chorus of the main
vessels retires. It is the work of a Hamburg timber cutting master
and is often twisted columns, pilasters and arches dar. At the
gate leading to the altar is again the appropriate imperial eagle,
rises above the royal arms of England. Even in 1747, the pews in the
possession of the steel Hofmeister and other representatives of the
Guild found, although since then the church life of the Germans in
London a completely different turn had taken.

This would have the buildings of the Kaufhof department store, it only
remains left of the life of the cooperative and its members
mitzutheilen as much as we can interessiren. This small state within
a state was of course also its constitution, which forms the time
of its creation and the medieval conditions corresponded. The whole
of genuine members of the corporation, the master, had, in their
gatherings, where we maintained all his interests, full voting rights.
Every year they chose himself a Aeltermann, with two Amtsgehülfen
and a committee of nine members of the administration had in my hands.
In the election, however, was anxious to view that
representatives of all the different cities of the Hanseatic League
in the series after the committee met.

Under this guidance, in the so-called morning language the affairs
of the small world and the ensuing negotiations related statutory
provisions.

Almost monastic was the breeding of the place: all the Stahlhof
themselves living masters and journeymen, and even the caretaker
had to be unverheirathet.

Sharp rules intended permanent order and tranquility. Swear,
beatings and other injuries were thätliche with heavy fines,
severe penalties were on drunkenness, dice games and indecent
performance. At nine of the clock at night the gates were closed
and none during the night aufgethan.

Each master was obliged to board his helmet and armor and all arms
belonging to the full arms in a good position to receive. This
legislation was aimed, but whole of a strict respect of the legal
relationship with the countryside, in which we enjoyed the
hospitality. It was important to myself never to reach a strife to
give. As a mediator in any disputes or civil cases with the locals
chose, therefore, always one of the 12 Aeltermänner the City of
London or even the self-appointed arbitrator Lordmayor.

For Criminal Matters, the jurors, as a lot are still in the mixed
jury in England is the case, half from Britain, the other from the
Germans elected. The obligations to the authority of the city
and the country were used by ancient sharp presaged and were
anxiously watched. For example, the maintenance of the weapons no
useless: the Germans were bound to the Theil Vertheidigung the
city to take the old contracts that they had the northward leading
Thor Bishopsgate in permanent weir, and as soon as circumstances
demanded, and guard vertheidigen .

The old Bischofsthor was, therefore, as we described, a German plant
architecture, which from above looking statues: a bishop's blessing
in the middle, right and left King Aelfred his Eidam Earl Aethelred
of Mercia, back to the gray-Saxon Early dunned.

Until the Protestant ancient times into it, as the city of London no
longer the enemy threat, the Hansen-old to fulfill this obligation
to be recorded. Even more important were in the course of time
the volunteers have become burdens which they are imposed to ensure
their important prerogatives , mainly in the insignificance of
their paid duties existed to protect. Since there was much on
gifts in money and materials. The Lordmayor were each 15 to New Year's
Nobel Gold over into a new pair of gloves wrapped to us involuntarily
to the already strange mitgetheilte Saxony time levy to remember.

Especially popular were Lordmayors also a keg of the best caviar
gift, or a few tonnes Häringer or Centner Polish wax. Also, the right
Consul ducks, the most cooperative of the number of Kronadvokaten,
the _Serjeants at law_ elected, received similar levels except
their acceptable gifts. From a from the time of Queen Elizabeth
came Beech ersieht account how much these gifts to the authorities of
the city and even to ministers of the Crown had become hereafter. The
officials of the Post, the Admiralty, the State Chancellery, the
Foreign Office, all with their New Year's gifts of provider, the
customs inspectors at the main customs offices flowed some 20 Pfd.
Sterl. so that they are probably in the mildly lenient and often
insidious exercise of their duty to preserve. A not inconsiderable sum
for the tips, small gifts of delicacies and wine, and gloves for the
set, which was always in delicate gold pieces einwickelte.

This was because many friendly relations. The Easter Lingenfelder
(_Easterlings_), like the Englishman, the German Hansen called
it, had him at public occasions quite often for his fellow citizens.
For large sumptuous feasts, as the City of London, so until this
day in adventurous lifts to celebrate maintains, therefore, lacked
the honest, reputable Hanseatic not. Even as the young Henry VI. In
February 1431 from Paris came to Westminster to be crowned, and
the Lordmayor, the sheriffs and Aelterleute on horseback and in
scarlet and ermine Forth catch him, rode like the poet Lydgate in
a fixed Liede describes Easter Lingenfelder immediately after the
officials of the town, on dainty horses, led by their directors and
masters.

On certain days of the year, then they celebrated festivals
at home. It was particularly the 4th December, the day of St. Barbara,
in which, after being previously registered in the All Saints
Worship beigewohnt that years festive meal in the great hall was held.
Double blank were then
review the receptacles cleaned, the walls adorned with rugs.

The master sat at the high table, the Gesellen slightly lower at
long tables, and in the courts of ancient times was the cod is not
lacking.

Above all other guests were a year the pastor of
All Saints and the gatekeeper of the Royal Court of Star Chamber
invited.

But enough trains from a life that, as long as the circumstances of
the time was certainly of advantages and blessings accompany been.

Nor is the end to remember that the Stahlhof found.

We have seen how the Hanseatic League and its factory in England
in the 16th Had survived for centuries.

The fate of the latter was a major turn by the great fire of
London in September 1666, equal to the best portion of the city,
even in the ashes Stahlhof presented.

As to the British government hesitated for the privileges of the
Company to renew the cooperative once existed stubbornly to their
good old law and received in the Prozessiren That after some of
Charles II, a confirmation of their ancient Clear Briefs.

The new building, which she now performed,
is much less demanding than the old solid walls, halls and vaults
have been only for the Stahlhofsmeister was a house built, all the
rest of the room to pack houses and yards used, not much different,
as they appear on both sides enough of the Thames are available.

Hansa existed only in memory, their foreign Comptoir they no longer
needed, the position of foreign merchants in England since Cromwell
was named major trade policy measures has become an entirely
different.

The Stahlhofsgenossen could therefore her property in London itself
only to the smallest Theile use and have been piecemeal at different
Waarenlagern to London merchants vermiethet.

Although Werth of the land and the interest Mieth the cost of
administration covered plenty, so the property is free cities
of Lübeck, Hamburg and Bremen, the heirs of the once so powerful
Hanseatic League, but sometimes become a burden, after lengthy
negotiations between the Governments concerned and detailed exploration
of the historical and legal circumstances, the Stahlhof finally
in 1853 for 72500 Pfd.

Sterl. in some English speculators had been sold. But to this day and
hopefully for a long time thanks to the Germans living in London, which
is currently over 50000 may enter, the old spirit of the corporation
Stahlhofsgenossen not high enough to be appreciative goods. After
the fires, the Stahlhof again from the ashes came, came and the then
head master at the Kings Charles II to the grace that they, as
several of the small town churches not listed should be a same
to leave. A royal joined them carte blanche In 1673
the small Trinity Church near her yard, they built them up and could
now be the Protestant worship chen hold in their mother tongue.

The church is on the Trinity, with the exception of the German
orchestra, the mother of the other three or four German Protestant
churches in London. The German businessman now lives there still,
no longer on the Stahlhof, he often stands in the flower of its
business throughout the locals, in some examples, even the most
brilliant manifestations same.

That compulsion is so medieval, free Concurrenz is also open to
foreigners. It is a beautiful sign that is just the common
sense and the memory of the common Heimath not have disappeared
if we are since a few years, mainly through voluntary contributions
of the German merchants in London, there is a splendidly led by German
Hospital aufblühn and ungetheilte attention excited to see the
Englishman, where the inclusion of a patient only one thing required
of him, namely that he is talking about our mother tongue.
Now it is a condition of
sinful flesh to be under the necessity of dying, and suffering other
like passions. Therefore the necessity of suffering these defects was
in Christ's flesh.

_I answer that,_ Necessity is twofold. One is a necessity of
_constraint,_ brought about by an external agent; and this necessity
is contrary to both nature and will, since these flow from an
internal principle. The other is _natural_ necessity, resulting from
the natural principles--either the form (as it is necessary for fire
to heat), or the matter (as it is necessary for a body composed of
contraries to be dissolved). Hence, with this necessity, which
results from the matter, Christ's body was subject to the necessity
of death and other like defects, since, as was said (A. 1, ad 2), "it
was by the consent of the Divine will that the flesh was allowed to
do and suffer what belonged to it." And this necessity results from
the principles of human nature, as was said above in this article.
But if we speak of necessity of constraint, as repugnant to the
bodily nature, thus again was Christ's body in its own natural
condition subject to necessity in regard to the nail that pierced and
the scourge that struck. Yet inasmuch as such necessity is repugnant
to the will, it is clear that in Christ these defects were not of
necessity as regards either the Divine will, or the human will of
Christ considered absolutely, as following the deliberation of
reason; but only as regards the natural movement of the will,
inasmuch as it naturally shrinks from death and bodily hurt.

Reply Obj. 1: Christ is said to be "offered because it was His own
will," i.e. Divine will and deliberate human will; although death was
contrary to the natural movement of His human will, as Damascene says
(De Fide Orth. iii, 23, 24).

Reply Obj. 2: This is plain from what has been said.

Reply Obj. 3: Nothing was more powerful than Christ's soul,
absolutely; yet there was nothing to hinder a thing being more
powerful in regard to this or that effect, as a nail for piercing.
And this I say, in so far as Christ's soul is considered in its own
proper nature and power.
_______________________

THIRD ARTICLE [III, Q. 14, Art. 3]

Whether Christ Contracted These Defects?

Objection 1: It would seem that Christ contracted bodily defects. For
we are said to contract what we derive with our nature from birth.
But Christ, together with human nature, derived His bodily defects
and infirmities through His birth from His mother, whose flesh was
subject to these defects. Therefore it seems that He contracted these
defects.

Obj. 2: Further, what is caused by the principles of nature is
derived together with nature, and hence is contracted. The form
moved from himself and remained equally delicious in peace, as in
conversion.

Your fabric seemed out of the mix, from the lily leaves and rose petals
are formed, but he was chaste and hot to cool to embers, he was both
delicate and strong resistance.

In this fruit was a lively throbbing core, it hammered into
their delicious, jerking pulse, and if you enjoyed it, it gave them
more and more so delicious, exquisite delights without her heavenly
riches are lost.

And what is in This creation, this restoration was the most delicious
Paradise, one could probably from the vicinity of the creator
in question. Neither God had completed his work and left alone, nor
is laid to rest. On the contrary, the hand-building, creating the
Spirit, the generating power is not removed, they remained in their
creative works. And every one of all the parts and limbs of paradise
remained creatively. Francesco Adam, just only from the workshop
of potter emerged, felt as a round the creators. With a delight to
außerweltlich was, he felt and saw Eva, the daughter of God. It still
adhered to her love, she had formed, and the most delicious of all
substances that the father used on her body, still had those
supernatural beauty, by no Erdenstäubchen was contaminated. But this
creation quivered, and swelled by the still glowing embers active
creator of heavenly power and urged to merge with Adam. Adam once
again urged her to join her in a new perfection detail.

Agata and Francesco, Francesco, and Agata, the priest, the young man
from a good house and the proscribed, despised shepherds child,
was the first human couple as they go hand in hand on Because
surreptitious nocturnal climbed to the valley. You searched the
deepest obscurity. Silently, the soul of a nameless wonder meets with
a delight to them almost two breast sprinkled, they went deeper and
deeper into the delicious wonders of the world hour. They were moving.
The pardon, which Auserwählung which they are resting felt mingled
with their infinite happiness is a serious ceremony.

They had felt their bodies were linked was in the kiss, but they felt
the unknown destination, they zuschritten. It was the last mystery.
It was exactly that why God created and why he the death
in the world that it almost had to buy. Thus came the first human
pair in the narrow gorge down which the river had cut Savaglia. She
was very deep, and just a little footpath led offenses committed on
the edge of the creek bed to the water reservoir up to the dizzying
height of the mountain water on the rock hinabstürzte.

Still in considerable distance away, the stream divided into two
arms, which are re-united by a small green islets, the Francesco
loved and often
visited because it works with some young apple trees, where the
roots were beaten, was very sweet.

And Adam took his shoes off and wore it over his Eva.

"Come, or I die," he said several times to Agata.

And they zertraten daffodils and Easter lilies with a heavy, almost
drunken way of lovers. Even here in the gorge, it was sommerwarm,
although the rushing of the brook running cooling brought. How short
was the time, since the turning points in the life of the couple
was already verflossen, and how much was backed everything, what
was the turning point.

The farmer, the islets belonged, had, since it is very distant from
the town was to counter the dangers of the weather to be reasonably
met, a hut of stone, earth and journeys made by a reasonably brisk
Laublager was safe.

It was perhaps this hut which Adam vorgeschwebt had when he was
with Eva to the direction of the valley, to mountains took place.
The cabin seemed to receive Lovers prepared.

It seemed secret hands of the approaching celebrations of the Incarnation
secret understanding to have been: for there were Gewölk of light
around the hut, Gewölk of sparks, fireflies, firefly, worlds, Milky
Way, sometimes in huge sheaves ascents, as they wanted to empty
spaces world re-inhabit.

You quollen and floated so high through the gorge, that stars of
heaven shall not be more different. Although they knew it was this
drama that was this silent spell for Francesco and the sinful but
wonderful Agata and her amazement that they are inhibited for a
moment. Is this the place, Francis thought, which I in
fact they do, unaware what it would mean for me, so often sought and
considered well pleased with them? It seemed to me a place to become
a hermit in front of the jammers in the world back then, and austere
in God's Word to sink. What she really is, an island in Strome Phrat
or Hiedekel, the secretly-glückseligste place in paradise, I would
have not viewed. And the mystical, lohenden Funkengewölke, Bridal
fires, fire victims, or what it always was, it broke completely from
the earth. If he forgot the world is not, so he knew that she
fainted at the gates of the Garden of Eden, as was the seven-dragon,
the seven animals, from sea level has risen. What he had to do with
those who worship the dragon. Maybe he blaspheme God hut. Its venom
is not reached their place. Francesco Never had, never had such a
Nahesein priests to God, such a Geborgensein in it, such a
forgetfulness of their own personality felt, and the noise of mountain
stream seemed gradually to the melodious thunder mountain, the
field grouper to organs, the stars with a myriad of golden harps to
play. Choirs of angels jubilierten by infinity, just rustled
storms from above the harmonies, and bells, bells, bells of bells by
wedding bells, large and small, deep and tall, massive and delicate
an overwhelming popular-fated celebration by the world space. - And
so it fell, entwined on the Laublager. * * * * * Do not currently
exist, which dwells, and if you also filled with fear Do those of
highest bliss to hold - so we strives, one finds there was no mercy.

His whole life was, as Francesco felt from the peak levels of
this mystery now lived. Where should you breathe in the future,
they could not hold on. How should you have a fucking life endure
if you from the rapture of his innermost sky was violated again. Mids
in supernatural ecstasy of pleasure felt the young man with piercing
pain the transience, the enjoyment of the property the agony of loss.

It was him when he should a cup of delicious wine, drink up and
an equally delicious quench your thirst: but the cup was never
empty, while the thirst was never fed. And the drinking would not
end, that's a delicious thirst saturation, nor that the cup would
be empty: yet he sog with anger that greedy, tormented, because he
will never get to the bottom could come. Embraces the rush of the
stream, which flooded, umtanzt of fireflies, the pair rested in
the rustling leaves, while through the roof of the hut, the stars
hereinblinzelten.

Of all the secrets Agatas, as he had admired unerreichliche
goods, he had taken possession of trembling. He was open in her
hair hineingetaucht, he
hung with the lips on her lips.

But once his eye was fully envy against his mouth met him the sight
of the sweet girl had robbed mouth.

And always incomprehensible always glowing,
always stupefying quoll from the secrets of her young body bliss.

What he hoped never to have had, if it vorspiegelten hot nights, it
was held nothing against what he now possessed boundless.

And while he reveled, it was always fresh in disbelief.

The excess of fulfilments led him anew, insatiable in his property
insurance.

For the first time felt his fingers, his trembling hands and palms,
his arms, his chest, his thighs the woman.

And it was for him more than the woman.

He was, he had lost a little something away, without which he was
a cripple, and with which he is now connected to the unit had been
found.

Was it from these lips, that hair, those breasts and arms ever been
separated?

It was a goddess, it was not a woman.

And it was nothing, what is there: he dug into the core of the world
and the ear under the magdlichen breasts pressed, he heard blissful
shuddering at the heart of the world insist.

Those drugs, half of those came on the couple, where the delights
of exhaustion in the wake of the stimuli and the stimuli feeling
of being in the wake of the stunning delights of Oblivion go: where
Francesco now in the arms of the girl, now in his arms Agata
entschlief.

How strange and how trust was shy, feral girl cuddled
under the compulsion of the priest found, and showed how happy she
served him.

And if they entschlief in his arms, so it was with a calm smile,
with which the eye of a mature infant in arms and chest of the
mother closes.

Francesco but looked, admired and loved the slumbering.

Through their bodies were waves of convulsions, as the relaxation
of life entails. Sometimes the girl cried in a dream. But it was
always the same, beguiling smile, if they are languishing eyelids
opened, and then dying in the same last devotion. So often the
young man entschlummerte, it seemed to him as a power entwinde him
quiet, quiet the body, he, with all the physical feeling, umschlungen
held.

But each time followed by this brief awakening in Entwinden first
feeling of the highest gratefully perceived sweetness, a unnennbarer
blessed with a dream, wake feeling of the sweetest Wirklichen.

That was it, the fruit of paradise, from the tree, which stood in the
middle of the garden. He held her with all their physical embrace.
It was the fruit of the tree of life, not the tree of knowledge of
good and evil, with which the serpent had tempted Eve.

Rather, it was those whose benefit God made equal. Francesco Erstorben
was any desire for a higher one other bliss. Not on earth and in heaven
there were no delights, with its comparable.

There was no king, no God, the young man, burrowing schwelgerischen in
abundance, not as beggars darbenden would have felt. His language was
Stammeln, for bursts herabgedrückt breathing. He beguiling
hint of the so-called, between the open lips Agatas hervorströmte.
He kissed the tears of hot lust of the eyelash, hot on the cheek of
the girl continued.

Closed eye, only sparingly blinzelnd, both enjoyed themselves in the
other, inward gaze, heißfühlend and hellfühlend.

But all this was more than pleasure, much more something which express
human language is not sufficient. * * * * * Francesco las punctually
at the early morning show. His absence was a nobody, not even his
Heimkunft of Petronilla had been noticed. The Überstürzung with which
he is fleeting washed, the Ministranten waiting in the sacristy and
the altar before the harrende, small municipality had prevented that
he came to reflect. The reflection occurred when he was back in the
presbytery, again was in his bar, where he Wirtschafterin the usual
breakfast vorsetzte. But this did not immediately reflect the clarity
of a disappointment. Rather, the old environment, the rising day
to the experience the glow of something unreal, like a past
dream faded. But here was but a reality. And although each of Francesco
ever dreamed of a fantastic dream überbot unbelievable, he
could nevertheless not wegleugnen. He had a terrible case done in
this circumstance was not deuteln: the question was whether a
survey of this fall, this terrible sin, nor ever was possible?

The fall was so deep and such a level down, that the priest had to
despair. Not only in church, even in the secular sense of this
terrible event was without precedent since. Francesco Sindacos
of thought, and how he with him about the possible rescue of
the discarded by the Alpe had spoken. Now, only secretly, in his
deep humiliation, he realized the whole pfäffische pride, all
the arrogant conceit that it had expanded at that time. He bit his
teeth together before shame, he is almost bent, like a vain, entlarvt
fraudsters before dishonor in naked helplessness. Was he not just
been a saint? Did not women and virgins of Soana almost to idolatry
it aufgeblickt?

And it was not successful, the spirit of the village church to lift
so that fair hearing, and even visit the church for men einbürgerte
again. Now he was a traitor to God, the deceiver and traitor to his
community, for the traitors to the Church, the traitor to his
family honor, the traitor to himself, yes, even a traitor to the
despised, rejected, wicked and wretched Scarabotas become that
it is under the pretext of saving their souls, so in the damnation had
entangled. Francesco thought of his mother. She was a proud,
almost masculine woman, who as a child with a fixed hand protected and
managed, and its unbending will also train its future life had
presaged. He knew that their hardness against him nothing but glowing
mother's love, and that by the slightest turbidity of the honor of
her son in her pride over heaviest injured by serious misconduct of
the son but in the seat of life had to be incurably wounded.

Strange how in connection with it that really happened, close to and
clearly lived through not only invented once was. Francesco was in
disgusting mud hinabgesunken in the last Unflat depravity. He had it
his blessing as a priest, his being a Christian, as the son of his
mother, yes, as a man ever left behind.

The werewolf, the smelly, demonic beast, would in the opinion of the
mother, in the opinion of people about anything, provided they are
aware of the crime had only left his. The young man drove up from
the chair and the breviary on the table, in which it had deepened to
the slips. It was him, as if hail of stones against the house crackles:
not in the way the day before, when trying a stoning, but with a
hundred, a thousand times the power. So, when should the rectory
vertilgt, or at least into a pile of rubble and he was converted to
a toxic Krötengereck be buried among them.

He had heard strange noises, terrible screams, shouts and rapid
knew that the angry, the tireless cast stones, not only throughout
Soana, the Sindaco, and the wife of Sindacos, but also Scarabota and
his family, and even of all his mother was. * * * * * But even
after hours were very different fantasies, and quite different
emotions such replaced.

Everything from the retreat from the horror of the deed, from the
contrition was born, seemed now never been available.

An unprecedented distress, a burning thirst dörrte Francesco.

Its interior screamed, as someone who comes in the glowing desert
sands swelter rolls, crying for water. The air seemed to be without
those substances that you need to breathe. The parsonage was the
priest to the cage, between the walls with aching knees, restless
like a predator, progressive, determined, if it does not liberate,
rather than continue to live, the skull in contact against the
wall to shatter.

How is it possible to live as a corpse? he asked himself, by residents
of the village watched through the window. How they may be or how can
they breathe? How to wear them, because they do not know what I have
enjoyed and now devoid of their miserable? And Francesco grew up
in it. He looked to popes, emperors, princes and bishops, to touch
upon all the people down, otherwise people like ants.

Even in his thirst, his misery, his privation das Admittedly he
did, he was no longer his life. An overpowering magic it had a completely
free-willed and without Agata, completely lifeless victims of Eros
made of God, the older and more powerful than Zeus and other gods.
He was in the writings of the ancients read about magic and the
like these and both God geringgeschätzt with a smile. Now he clearly
felt that even an arrow shot wound and a deep thought had to be with,
in the opinion of the ancients, the God of the blood of his victims
poisoned. This wound is burned, drilled, flared, and devoured
nagte yes in him.

He felt terrible stabbing pain - until he is at dusk, though
inwardly screaming of joy on the way to the same small island world
came to him yesterday with the lovers united, and where he had his
encounter with her new appointment had. * * * * * The Berghirt
Ludovico, the inhabitants of the area as a "heretic by Soana" known,
remained silent when he was up to the point of his manuscript, where
it lost, had read.

The visitor would have liked the story to end one. When he, however,
the desire to speak so openly was, opened his landlord that his
handwriting not rich. He was also the view that history can, indeed,
be torn here. The visitor was not of this opinion. What became
of Agata and Francesco of Francesco and Agata? The matter remained
a secret or she has been discovered? Did the lovers on the duration
or fleeting pleasure each other? Francesco was the mother of the
matter? And finally, the listener wanted to know if a real incident
of the story is based or whether they just seal it perfectly. "I
said already," replied Ludovico, a little discoloration, "that a
real incident to the occasion for my writing has been made. "He was
silent a long while here. "It has been," he continued later, "about
six years ago a clergyman with a shock stick and stone
throwing, literally taken from the altar of the church away from
being hunted.

It was me, at least, when I from Argentina to Europe and back
to this area came from so many people told me that in the event
itself does not doubt. Also, the incestuous Scarabotas, but not under
that name, lived here at Generoso. The fictitious name is
Agata, I just took him by the Sant Agatha chapels, above which, as
you see, is still the brown fish predators circling. Scarabotas But
the others have really sin fruits had an adult daughter, and the
priest is one of the illicit use with her has been accused.

He has, as they say, the matter is not abgeleugnet, never shown the
slightest remorse, and the Pope asked him, claims one, therefore
excommunicated. The Scarabotas had to leave the area. They should -
the parents, not the children - in Rio at the yellow fever died.
"The wine and the excitement, the place, time, society, and especially
read through the poem, combined with all sorts of mysterious
circumstances that caused the listener was made this even more
intrusive. He asked again after the fate of Francesco and Agatas.
There was no evidence of Hirt.

"They are just a long time, a nuisance in the area have been
delighted by the scattered everywhere, lonely and schändeten desecrated
sanctuaries and shelters abused her wicked pleasure." These words broke
out in a completely Anachoret immediate, long curb, loud and free
laughter. thoughtful and strangely moving joined the transferer this
adventure trip to the home. His diary contains descriptions of the
descent, which he does not want to shift. The so-called blue hour,
which occurs when the sun sunk below the horizon, was in any case was
particularly beautiful. You heard the
case of Soana rushing.

Quite so, and had him Francesco Agata heard rustling.

Or they heard at the end now and be killed in the same moment?

Was there not the bunch Scarabotasche stone? Hearing no sounds
cheerful children, untermischt with the Blöken of goats and sheep,
then? The hikers drove itself over the face, as if he wanted to shed
veil confusing: was the little story that he had heard, really, like
a tiny gentian flower or the like, on a mat of this mountain grown,
or was this beautiful, mountainous topography elemental, they froze
Gigantomachie from the small part of the story emerged?

This and similar thought he, as his hearing by the sonorous
sound of a singing woman's voice was affected. It was yes, the Anachoret
was married. The voice, like the one worn in a wide, acoustic room,
where people stop breathing, just to listen.

Also, the nature held its breath. The voice appeared in the cliff to
sing. Sometimes they are flooded at least, in large oscillations
fully sweetest enamel and fiery nobility, almost out of there.
The singer was found to very opposite direction, the path to the
cube Ludovicos heraufgestiegen.

They carried a pottery on the head, which they collected with the
left a little thought, while the rights with her daughter led.
This was the full and slim figure but those grade, delicious attitude,
so solemnly, so, seems sublime.

Some suspect shot the browser at this sight, as an enlightenment
by the soul. Probably he was now been discovered, because suddenly
stopped singing. You saw the end of the sidewalk closer to the full
splendor of the western half of the sky taken. You heard the child
- the mother with a calm, deep voice answer. Then we heard
how the sole of the naked woman carved klatschend the crude
levels occurred.

The load because it was necessary to firmly and securely occur. Were
waiting for the moments prior to this encounter between a never
perceived tension and mysteriousness. The woman seemed to grow. You
saw the hochgeschürzte dress, looked at each steps are fleetingly
bare knees, looked bare shoulders and arms out, saw a round,
woman-like, despite the proud self-consciousness holdes face of the
strong growth of hair, as red-brown earth, was surrounded urwesenhaft.
Was Is not that the Männin the Menschin, the Syrian goddess, the sinner,
which disintegrated with God to the whole people, to give the man?
repatriation was taken aside, and the glowing Kanephore progressive,
his greeting of the load because almost imperceptibly responding
were on him.

She turned both eyes after him, while the head remained straight
ahead. Glided across the face with a proud, a self, a knowing smile.

Then they lowered the gaze again on the way, while at the same time
by its unearthly glitter eyelashes seemed to spray. The browser was
perhaps by the heat of the day, the wine and everything else
experienced overheating, but it certainly is: he felt before
this woman is very, very small.
Hence Jerome says (on Matt. 26:37) that "Our Lord, in
order to prove the reality of the assumed manhood, 'was sorrowful' in
very deed; yet lest a passion should hold sway over His soul, it is
by a propassion that He is said to have 'begun to grow sorrowful and
to be sad'"; so that it is a perfect "passion" when it dominates the
soul, i.e. the reason; and a "propassion" when it has its beginning
in the sensitive appetite, but goes no further.

Reply Obj. 1: The soul of Christ could have prevented these passions
from coming upon it, and especially by the Divine power; yet of His
own will He subjected Himself to these corporeal and animal passions.

Reply Obj. 2: Tully is speaking there according to the opinions of
the Stoics, who did not give the name of passions to all, but only to
the disorderly movements of the sensitive appetite. Now, it is
manifest that passions like these were not in Christ.

Reply Obj. 3: The "passions of sins" are movements of the sensitive
appetite that tend to unlawful things; and these were not in Christ,
as neither was the _fomes_ of sin.
_______________________

FIFTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 15, Art. 5]

Whether There Was Sensible Pain in Christ?

Objection 1: It would seem that there was no true sensible pain in
Christ. For Hilary says (De Trin. x): "Since with Christ to die was
life, what pain may He be supposed to have suffered in the mystery of
His death, Who bestows life on such as die for Him?" And further on
he says: "The Only-begotten assumed human nature, not ceasing to be
God; and although blows struck Him and wounds were inflicted on Him,
and scourges fell upon Him, and the cross lifted Him up, yet these
wrought in deed the vehemence of the passion, but brought no pain; as
a dart piercing the water." Hence there was no true pain in Christ.

Obj. 2: Further, it would seem to be proper to flesh conceived in
original sin, to be subject to the necessity of pain. But the flesh
of Christ was not conceived in sin, but of the Holy Ghost in the
Virgin's womb. Therefore it lay under no necessity of suffering pain.

Obj. 3: Further, the delight of the contemplation of Divine things
dulls the sense of pain; hence the martyrs in their passions bore up
more bravely by thinking of the Divine love. But Christ's soul was in
the perfect enjoyment of contemplating God, Whom He saw in essence,
as was said above (Q. 9, A. 2). Therefore He could feel no pain.

_On the contrary,_ It is written (Isa. 53:4): "Surely He hath borne
our infirmities and carried our sorrows."

_I answer that,_ As is plain from what has been said in the Second
Part (I-II, Q. 35, A. 7), for true bodily pain are required bodily
hurt and the sense of hurt. Now Christ's body was able to be hurt,
since it was passible and mortal, as above stated (Q. 14, AA. 1, 2);
neither was the sense of hurt wanting to it, since Christ's soul
possessed perfectly all natural powers. Therefore no one should doubt
but that in Christ there was true pain.

Reply Obj. 1: In all these and similar words, Hilary does not intend
to exclude the reality of the pain, but the necessity of it. Miss
Mimi had her then-resistant seat behind the Tonbank because the bell
is no longer occurring, the customer could sign. The maid, now through
the open door is always convenient "time forward" had had their
summer short Kattunkleider applied to them so are good. The
fresh, full arms were no longer blue and red frozen. On the opposite
corner, the innkeeper Tetje Jürgens, under the floor of the House
Behnschen a "beer-cellar and breakfast" for years had been held the
first open break with excursionists. arrived, they were singing,
singing drove it for a hasty "Stehseidel" continues. It was spring,
warm spring sun. Already in the first days of May, the Behn-old
Holstein in the tree, a beer and Tanzetablissement in the
neighborhood, his glass Grogk outdoors, under the broad, glasbedachten
veranda, drinking and the transition from winter to summer drink cool
drink Augustinerbräus accomplish. In the winter he used every
evening in the spacious, comfortable guest rooms nine to ten clock,
after dinner, to drink his stiffening .

Once a week he held a long Skatsitzung from. The card was also
sacrificed in the summer. Often there were women and children in the
veranda with a glass of beer or a bottle of lemonade, lemonade, while
the men and fathers in the guest room at the heated game.

It was in such a Skatabend, a Wednesday, when Lulu Behn with the mother
and sister in the Holstein porch of the tree the mild evening air
enjoyed. It was a busy life around them. Every Wednesday was in the
rear large dance halls. Then the cooks and maids, often only a few
minutes ago, "only once rum." At home, however, waited to rule on the
pavement for dinner. Ausgehtag who had also came in well-Ball
Toilet, with flowers in her hair, led by young boys plastered
Sunday.

Schlachter Gesellen in their striped Leinenblousen, Dump the meat
off at the door, a rush to a short round in the dance hall.

House servants joined in passing a coachman could keep their cab,
jumped from the trestle, and paid homage for a moment the joys of
dance.

"Ladies" were always in abundance in the hall before, or they were
standing outside of the first best with it. There have
always been curious and shy at the entrance, where there is the
courage, time, money or use to, in the lit hall to dare.

It was like in front of a hive. A constant comings and goings. Lulu
who loves dancing, silently envied every girl on the arm of his lover,
laughing and impatient about everything dear to the waltz entgegeneilte.
Now even drove the young Beuthien with his cab in front, the four
little tipsy young boys emerged. Each of them wore a red carnation
in the buttonhole, and Wilhelm was decorated in this way. "Kumm with,
min Jung", called him one of his passengers on. "Ne, ne, lat be,"
he ruffled, but saw the hindsight fluctuating after inconclusive.
A pretty maid in Kattunkleid bright and clean white apron with
lace bibs, nodded to him in passing as an old friend to.

The Little seemed to determine his decision, and he followed her
quickly. Whether he had noticed Lulu? It seemed not so. This dance
went almost before lust, envy and jealousy.

Paula was curious to the Saalthür pushed now, and came with glowing
cheeks and shining eyes back. "You know, I've even danced," she
cried joyfully and proudly. "You? Stupid kid ! Töf, dat ik vertell
Vadder, "scolded the mother. She was a little dismayed." It was
just one Beuthien ", they looked to apologize.

"I do not want to, but he pulled me into it." Lulu was blood red. This
crab had danced with him. "How common," she said naserümpfend. "Oh,"
threw it contemptuously on the small shoulder. "Nu me That you
stay here," urged the mother, because of the neighbors at the next
table had become aware, speaking High German.

"Geh nich me away again, I'll tell you this," mocked halblaut
a merchant's apprentice geschniegelter light blue tie with the scheltende
woman. Lulu who heard it, blushed. "Papa will hopefully come
soon, I find it intolerable here, "she said loudly and somewhat
drawling, with a desire to show that one of their table, a pure
German could speak. But also adorned their language was a mocking
echo of that table naughty green beaks." I am going to home, I get
headaches here, "lamented Lulu, and stood up. The mother, lived,
against the wishes of the daughter no difference, let them grant.
At the exit was at Lulu ungentle side pushed. That pretty maid,
the Beuthien into the hall followed was rushed over to her. "Marie
Marie!" cried the hurry an office-free after mail carrier. But Mary
heard not. Lulu, indignant over the shock, saw, in looking back, even
Beuthien, a cigar in your mouth, slowly, and how bored out of the room
to come back. From new arrivals at Weiterschreiten prevented had
they let him come. They touched in passing, but he saw them not,
or would not see them.

Detuned she moved her home to her room back. The lamp was not filled,
and they let their anger out on Anna. "Dat is Madamm ehr Sak Se mi
hebben nix to sedges, "contradicted the girl." silly thing, "went
on Lulu, and a slap on the cheek burned baffled the disobedient. Without
a word to dare to meet the Gemaßregelte Lulu commands.

This sudden energy of the otherwise so equanimity, phlegmatic damsels
impressed her so that she fell silent. Only in the kitchen they
secretly ballte a fist and broke a whole quarter of an hour later
in anger from Thränen. Lulu had by this violent discharge of their
laid unmutes their serenity again won. It was a long walk to no
good with the Anna and rejoiced that they once "Mores" have to be
taught. That Captured the punishment so quiet einsteckte, she had
hardly expected. This gave her courage. From now on, she wanted to
otherwise occur. It was her, as if they deal with this slap in
the face at the same time to all other girls avenged, which they were
angry because they Beuthiens handling and enjoyed friendship. She
laughed once in the enjoyment of this imaginary satisfaction of
revenge. they would prefer the red, with the earlier Beuthien danced,
the slap, to Paula and the same case, the stupid kid. Give
me you would like it as it is so important to their experience
herausplatzte. Anna had the ignominy inflicted her with a termination
wish to answer bethought but with regard to the good position which
it had Behnschen home, one another. In Breastfeeding nourished
by now a fervent hatred for Lulu, which she as much as possible
from the paths went.

Two days later, Lulu in loading the Wittfoth accidentally witness,
like any girl, Beuthiens dancer, told on Wednesday that they
are with the young Fuhrmann son would have danced. "That is aber'n
fleets," she enthused. "De danzt ', dat's' s state is". On Sunday
he wanted to dance again, she continued, in Ottendorf Sener
Park Sorry madam, but would have its great coffee, and so it could
not continue.

"And he asked me so warmly," she concluded sadly. As the lightning
came the thought Lulu: There's an opportunity. Where nobody knows
you. On Sunday you visit the park Ottendorf Sener She thought of
how exciting it plan the easiest to implement could. She was
obsessed by the idea. A resident in Altona girlfriend dropped her
that such ventures are not easy loving abhold would be. Alone they
dared not to go.
Maybe that girl had a seamstress in a coat big Altonaer clothing
business, any well-known young man who accompanied them.

Worst case could be that even without Mr.

Local monitoring visit.

The girl was immediately on its proposal to fire and flame for a
company that promised spicy entertainment. We arranged everything in
writing, and Lulu was in feverish excitement Sunday opposite.
VIII Paula , which is still dominated by the memory of those with
a dance Beuthien consumes, had on her school made her dancers.

He had her down from his pedestal zugenickt friendly, and she had
reciprocated his greeting coquettishly. "Do you know den?" asked
three or four voices simultaneously, and their friends crowded
curiously at her. "What should I not know. I am even with him
have been dancing," she said.

"You lying," cried the others, such as from a mouth . 'That's true,
"claimed Paula. "Ask him." Disbelief that separated you. Lechzte
Paula since after a repetition of a beautiful waltz. But how should
it really?

For she had been pulling courage, but when they saw it her father
hinterbrächte?

You looked closer with Beuthien to be known. She nodded to him first,
where she saw him. She met him in front of his stall when flushing
the cabs or other employment, so she stayed and talked pertly him.
The first time he was in joking with the dripping brush after it is
injected. "Nu, you have my clean apron made wet," she scolded him and
moved from pouting. But already the next day she thought, if he is
re-injected me, and joined to him carefully. Actually, she had
someone with whom they "went", a thirteen year-old lout of boys,
a pupil of the school. But Bernhard Prüßnitz could not dance with
her to go. So she made no remorse because in addition to that on which
they "went," nor any other insurance, with whom she "danced".
Beuthien amused about the child. Heimlich that he also found out
that someone from the home Behnschen sought his friendship. He asked
Paula and rejoiced when the Little Lulu on switching.

"Tanzt also your sister," he asked her when she's back to work cleaning
the streets joining. "And whether," was the answer. "She always
does so etepetete, but she's sly old dog." He laughed. "Dance Wednesday,
Mr Beuthien?" she asked after a pause, in which she appears with
great interest watched as he left the rear of the cab to his circle
had Ax, washing and lubricating it.

"Certainly, we come out Deern," he laughed, without aufzusehen. "
Before Mother, I am not afraid, "she said," but Lulu, the Uetz, fits
me always. "" Then bring them with, "he joked. Lulu was shocked when
her Paula this invitation in all innocence brought about."

The tell me daddy, "she scolded. "You have such things in your head?"
"That you can thun," replied Paula gleichgiltig possible. "Then
tell me dad that you've beaten Anna."
Lulu laughed out loud.

"Too childish."

On the evening she asked the nurse quietly, in passing: "Paula, it
really is true, with Beuthien?"

"What then?" "Oh yes you know what I mean." "I do not lie as Du. "At
any other time would not Paulas brashness remained without reply.
This time, they hardly heard Lulu. A half hour later, it was Paula,
in the living room quietly behind the back of his sister on the case
back. "If you say the father's, hau ich Dich," she whispered.

Now Lulu would not like to belong to answer, but the parent is not
brought to account, it was also this pleasant opening tacitly accept.
Basically, Lulu was the bustle of the highly gleichgiltig sister.
Your now in the way of something to put it to verfeinden would have
been unwise bargain.

Paula Booth familiar with Beuthien on foot, it could perhaps prove
useful. On Saturday came a letter from the Altonaer girlfriend, the
birthday Lulu invited and especially stressed the house key is not
to forget.

It would be quite fun, and it would probably be late. "Dat is doch
nett by Lene Kröger, que se nor Di thinks," said Behn mother.

"Se was always so'n Lütt anghänglich Deern. Wat honest goodness you
want?" Lulu decided on a bouquet and a plate of vanilla chocolate,
which Lene loved so much, as she said. IX. Hermann Hein Eckes love
Mimi Kruse was inventive in all sorts of little attentions to the
pretty girl, although he is with regards to Therese still
imposed restraint. His good heart enabled him not, Mimi with a gift,
a bouquet, a rose, or what the day and brought the chance to
enjoy and the cousin to leave empty-handed. And yes, he rarely had the
opportunity, the lover more than five minutes alone to talk.
Incidentally reluctant to his pride, secrets with her to have to ask,
aunt and cousin of nothing to tell her if he were a flower or a
bottle odeur had brought. Thus, it was not forced to do everything
twice and sometimes to an aunt does not reset to donate three times,
and with the ingenuity of love for the Mimi certain objects have
a small overview of some value to give, from which they could see
that they reward wanted.

Only the Ring, which he had bought her, so that the ugly green stone
test, but he had secretly sent her need.

Such a value piece, he could not publicly talk about her rich, without
the criticism of Aunt challenge. This secrecy was in his eyes
apologized.

Mimi had the ring with undisguised surprise and joy of vibrant
accepted. He was a strong ally of the golden spectacles Hermanns. Mr.
Heinecke was decidedly a most acceptable lot,
an admirer, you had to keep warm.

She found him looking than eight weeks, but actually not so bad.

Hermann rejoiced the effect of the ring.

When he was with the two girls after the concert and he had soupiert
in its upper atmosphere Therese felt a disturbing presence, he is a
lively wish come once a day with Mimi to spend alone. But how
should he begin. He could not gradezu they invite, but she was always
the shop girl's aunt. And secretly? Admittedly, the hiding game has
its charms.

Then came his chance to help. A Sunday afternoon walk arranged
by Elbschlucht, one of Becker Flott Chaussee restaurant with
gorgeous views of the river Elbe, threatened by Therese headache
in question to be asked, when the aunt, by Mimis childlike worn to
show grief stirred drive, but without the walk Therese to make.

It was a beautiful Sunday, when the two young people on the City Hall
market horses train left for a cab first-class provider. Mimi,
delighted about Gentilität Hermanns, beamed before pleasure, when,
conveniently located in the rear of the soft back clean vehicle,
like a lady rolled through the streets.

They saw allerliebst from. Their full, adult fresh bust came in the
tight-fitting black jacket, which is effective from the simple,
pearl gray dress abhob, to the best effect.

Personal Hermann had her a dark red rose in buttonhole halberschlossene
inserted. A light straw Hütchen, but with white, fragrant lace
trimmed, stood their smiling fresh face great. Hermann, who also had
his little weaknesses, had a penchant for Mimis Pincenez brought
the victim to such a zuzulegen, and was now employing every few
minutes the unaccustomed nose turret with his colored Bismarck hands
- he wore with such fondness fashion gloves - back in the saddle
must be set. The way these facial adornment gave him a noble appearance,
and certainly the least studied in this pair of distinguished
school teacher and a Ladenmamsell. Unterwegs we decided to make the
trip, the two prepared a lot of fun, a bit more extended and
ordered the coachman, after which a half an hour lying on the Elbe
Park Hotel to go.
_I answer that,_ A man is called a wayfarer from tending to
beatitude, and a comprehensor from having already obtained beatitude,
according to 1 Cor. 9:24: "So run that you may comprehend [Douay:
'obtain']"; and Phil. 3:12: "I follow after, if by any means I may
comprehend [Douay: 'obtain']". Now man's perfect beatitude consists
in both soul and body, as stated in the Second Part (I-II, Q. 4, A.
6). In the soul, as regards what is proper to it, inasmuch as the
mind sees and enjoys God; in the body, inasmuch as the body "will
rise spiritual in power and glory and incorruption," as is written 1
Cor. 15:42. Now before His passion Christ's mind saw God fully, and
thus He had beatitude as far as it regards what is proper to the
soul; but beatitude was wanting with regard to all else, since His
soul was passible, and His body both passible and mortal, as is clear
from the above (A. 4; Q. 14, AA. 1, 2). Hence He was at once
comprehensor, inasmuch as He had the beatitude proper to the soul,
and at the same time wayfarer, inasmuch as He was tending to
beatitude, as regards what was wanting to His beatitude.

Reply Obj. 1: It is impossible to be moving towards the end and
resting in the end, in the same respect; but there is nothing against
this under a different respect--as when a man is at once acquainted
with what he already knows, and yet is a learner with regard to what
he does not know.

Reply Obj. 2: Beatitude principally and properly belongs to the soul
with regard to the mind, yet secondarily and, so to say,
instrumentally, bodily goods are required for beatitude; thus the
Philosopher says (Ethic. i, 8), that exterior goods minister
"organically" to beatitude.

As crude saw the people. Even Beuthien, all around Haupteslänge
dominated by heat and beer enjoyment reddened, met him. Lulu's taste
was incomprehensible to him. And what he wanted? Purchasing power
and muscle power, which are the forces against which the women
have respect. XVIII. Lulu Behn had vainly gesträubt, with the
race to go.

She had headache vorgeschützt their often sick, but the father did
not want to accept and meant that there would be underway, in the
fresh air, at best.

So good-natured he was, so he demanded of others the same hardness
against
small physical discomfort that he practiced against themselves.

Lulu, so as not to cause unnecessary concern to it for good reasons
seemed dangerous, obeyed, and took their seats in the open cab next
to the mother, while Paula with the father in the back seat took
place.

It was the same cab in which they deal with their frequent Beuthien
had made secret trips, the old well-known Brown, and what you have
the most dreadful was Wilhelm drove himself after that visit the
grove Horner, they had only seen once again.

Beuthien key from her, and she was ashamed in front of him.

This one time, but they had him speak to him to say what they feared.

He had ridiculed them and all sorts of advice and calmed Geängstigte.

As he took it so easily and spoke so confidently, was also taken
by them.

Beuthien would not leave, he would marry them. Today, however, drove
them with the certainty of its forthcoming by the colorful crowd
after horn out in the atmosphere of a criminal, after the scene of
his That kept.

Like most certainly be dominated Beuthien . Not once was he blushed,
as Lulu with a slight tilt of the head past him into the carriage.

And how he equanimity at the top of the pedestal sat, and how secure
his horse through the maze of carts drew.

The old Behn was underway but worried as Lulu repeatedly closed the
eyes and pale zurücklehnte.

"Will you stop it?" he asked.

"You can still comfortably by train horses back." They fought from.
She wanted to enforce it now.

Beuthiens stoic silence they had annoyed, and they wanted it after
thun.

Before getting to the racecourse abbog, she saw in the distance of
that forest, as a low, black scrub it stood on the rolling fields
across.

Whether he saw over there? They watched him, but he had no eye for the
environment.

He had his full attention to driving judge.

But you always had to look after over the black spot over there,
across the now a single white cloud, like a fabulous monster,
floated.

How scary it looked lonely cloud. How lost she floated in the blue
sea air, like a devious sails in boundless Ocean. A miracle
unprecedented feeling of loneliness overcome Lulu. Mühsam mastered
it. "What you always guckst after the cloud?" asked Paula.
schrak Lulu together. "I?" she asked. "This is but one way." She
hardly knew that they constantly staring over there.

"Lulu Selterwasser something to drink afterwards," said the mother.
"That will refresh her." The father wanted them to send back cab,
Beuthien should be at the end of the race to come back. Almost
violently rejected from Lulu. In order that no price would be now with
him there alone. A dull opposition to his power over her began to
change since their last lively entertainment.

He came to her so differently, than usual, it was her, when she saw
sharper, as if by a magnifying glass. First it was the many wrinkles
under the eyes, and frequent nervous twitching of the eyelids. A small
warty-like increase at the edge of the left auricle, which they
never seen to have said, was forced to formally their eyes.

The large skin fold over the strong tanned neck, tightly held under
the short black hair, gave his head, seen from behind, a bit brutal.
You had during the whole trip almost always those bulging neck fold
watch, and the slightly greasy collar of his skirt. How nasty!
However, when she on the racecourse, with a glimpse of the cars from
him between his colleagues saw that handsome, above all, and saw
how short he was in a jocular Balgerei his superior forces effortless
needed, she felt again on his poor, defenseless subject to his will,
and how a glowing wave climbed the old feeling for him back into her.

Teilnahmlos they pursued the race, only with itself employs. The
vorgeschützten headache had now truly entered a result of the
emotion and the heat generated in the open field there. So she was
glad when it is equipped for the home. On the return trip was the
failure of the various races to substance lively entertainment,
which also dragged Beuthien was.

It was not dry palate in the sun of the summer afternoon endured,
and enjoyed the drink was named to his Paula disturbing effect
is not inappropriate. She had asked for Beuthien on the pedestal to
be allowed to sit, and the old Behn had been happy, as it
heats was the width of the seat itself to be able to use. Paula, has
naturally not mundfaul was enjoyed following the suggestions in
the resistant chatterer with Beuthien, who feasted on the girl
that made him so often with strange glowing eyes anblitzte. " This
is again, "he thought. "Two years, we continue to play with." The
big, derbknochige teenager with blond hair flying, the white, freckled
complexion, wide sensuous lips and the round, firm chin, promised
more to their taste to develop it as Lulu done, their soft and weak
forms of it are not attracted to the duration.

Paula saw today particularly advantageous with its bright red blouse
and the same color pen set of white straw hat. "Burning Love" poetically
christened the fashion of this flaming red Lulu saw the confidential,
funny chat between the two and was suddenly jealous. It was
not Paula, "that stupid kid," she feared, but in the personalized her
sister is a danger to it possibly could threaten the other side.
Beuthien When they left? recovery came one of those moments on it,
where they met with gruesome clarity into the future saw.
Either disgrace or his wife, Ms. Kutscher. If it is not wanted to
marry, her father would force him? Would he recognize as son? You
closed your eyes, as if they expect to shut off everything repugnant.
It was dull in the dahingelebt last few days. That she wanted to
continue the case to come to leave. It was most appropriate to their
nature to push and push to leave. Loved it, how it went. But then again
bothered to look at it to Paula, with their "Burning Love" up there
so conspicuously paraded. Most eyes in the audience were the "fiery"
teenager on the coachman Bock, a few officers, in a lightweight hunting
cab overtook their car, striking almost mustered the pale girl
in the white blouse gürtelumschlossenen, with eyes so tired before
hinstarrte . Lulu had no eye for the gentlemen. She was very busy
with it. Something like hatred for the sister stirred, still Beuthien
with their chatter amused naive, innocent, a child yet, and yet that
has been dancing with him with one foot in the forbidden garden
of fruit they had already genascht.

An ugly idea grew in her, and said in a short, scornful gaze from.
Lach only my child, she thought. Even your time comes. XIX. Miss
Mimi Kruse made the race after her engagement with Mr. Emil Pohlenz
known and announced its position in the Wittfoth. "Did I not say
the same?" said the aunt. "I'm such a what to conceal." "It was
predictable," Therese operated. "If they are suffering like you can
only rejoice." "My blessings have them," said the Wittfoth. "This
one, like Mimi, we get again." "Well," Therese doubted. "Mimi was
really in the business is quite efficient." "Everything is right,"
said the aunt to. "In other words, forget it but you, and you
have to admit it all." "Yes, where you can find one without fault,
dear aunt." An ugly cough, which she has been tormented exit the
Buxtehuder, broke bursts Therese words. "This is just one lot, to
replace any" alleged wife Caroline. "It just annoys me that the
stupid thing has such luck. But it is probably really bad, so what
to say. I also just one.

I will not take him, and when she brings him auf'n plate. "" You
did your part already, "laughed Therese. "At the end I would have
to say uncle Pohlenz. There is me Beuthien dear uncle." "I am amused
by it that we still got 'ne double betrothal to have professional
gekriegt. Nu institutions can also do," said the Wittfoth. "
Wilhelm I will make a request, "joked Therese little embarrassed.
The aunt unzarte remark that hurt her, for she was betrothed and
marry the "not-invented", they could watch. And yet she was equally
liebebedürftig, had an equally receptive heart, as Mimi and so
much older aunt. Their inclination Hermann burned like a candle,
with the same, quiet, gentle flame, consuming itself. Too
proud and too clever to give up illusions, she had once for all to
love waived, at least with the content, including unrequited love
can offer.

It was almost too early, but their hours were very taken, a handmade
birthday next to Hermann started his monogram in gold, surrounded by
a wreath of violets in blue silk. Atlas embroidered on black, the
whole thing should be an ornament to the Paperback disadvantage.
Busy, she worked out, and love made her such a fine work unaccustomed
fingers skillfully. If they enjoy it more often but could work for
him, it is useful.

When he once a day, angry about his dilatoriness landlady, Aunt stopper
for some stockings, had they been delighted that this work may
be slimming, and had in this womanly Thätigkeit for lovers felt
happy. Hermann Could they not have so they treat him only one worthy,
and his tendency to Mimi had never quite found their applause.

It was good warm Mimi, her many amiable qualities due to which a
considerate, soft against the unhealthy behavior girlfriend belonged,
but seemed to Hermann it is not the right woman. Even the difference
of education
made them questionable.

Of course, she herself was not a church of light, but Mimi had no
time for reading interest, and the books were now Hermanns but once
set-up and tools.

That was because Therese basically been pleased that Mimi by their
engagement with the relationship with Pohlenz endgiltig Hermann had
finished.

Hermann, this gracious, shied, fine man who would certainly soon find
another girl that made him better appreciate Mimi knew him and
turned. They approved it, that after receiving the Korbes proud
avoided, together with this to make themselves so painfully missing
him.

When Mimi first out of the house would be, yes, everything would
be different. He would again, as before, their sole focus, you read
that they teach and promote. How happy they are on it. The aunt had
a little mockingly congratulates fiancées and all kinds of comments
"proud", "noble lady" and "simple basement people" drop what Mimi
very hurt exclaimed: "But no, Ms.

Wittfoth like talking They only way ", and in Thränen erupted." Well,
Herrjeses, because what I said? " that the Wittfoth pikiert. "Mimì
not forget us," Therese sought to convey.

"Without us they would have never made their fortune. If I were
Mr. Pohlenz now had hijacked, or you, her aunt had him weggeangelt
what? Mimi us must be eternally grateful." These words brought back
funny Sunshine, Mimi, and affirmed that they would be of her life
to the great years back, they verlebt in these areas would have.

"Even to get one?" Therese threatened with a finger, because the aunt
had left the room. Mimi blushed. Then lay down a fine, despite fold
between her brows. "I knew Mr. Heinecke not marry." "We must all know,
dear Mimi. That none of you may ask," Therese returned to this
confession. "A marriage without love, I think me horribly." "Not
true?" voted for Mimi. "This is life but also terribly seriously.
If I do not Emil loved -" "Then you will certainly be happy with
him," she broke Therese fast. "Hermann is still far too young to
marry," she continued.

"A teacher with his bare starting salary should not be remembered."
"I am too," Mimi strove. "What is the cost is not everything! Pohlenz
says, with three thousand marks he did not wish to marry." "That comes
to the demands on," said Therese. "Of course. With how little it can
actually get the man, if he only wants "."

You will be your good and have ample livelihood, dear Mimi. "" Yes,
we have afterwards. Emil yes it can, "said Mimi. "I hope you visit
us, because sometimes". XX. Wife Caroline was making arrangements
for the betrothal ceremony, with understandable zeal taken.
Besides the inevitable Plate cake she had baked a buffer that
is big enough for the whole neighborhood to be able to abfüttern.
Nevertheless, she does not refrain from even its bread-makers a
squiggle-filled to order.

"The man is also what these have," she said. "But where should we do
with all the cake out, dear aunt," turned Therese admits. "You do
not worry, you will have all. Cake should be," said Wittfoth. "When
times as times. So'n powern stuff I do not like." The celebration
of this important event was to Mimis departure had been postponed
in order to allow participation Hermanns. Even a foreign elder brother
of the groom, who had not earlier agreements, it was in this way the

opportunity to join.

Uncle Martin, a small Hufner near Oldesloe came because even on the
morning of the feast with the family early train, with him a large
basket with eggs, sausages and bacon.

"Min Lowise wär gor to Girne came with," he apologized his wife.

"But de Lütt is only veer weeks, Se nu weten Wulle." "Well, gratuleer
ok!" cried the Wittfoth. "In Se Oeller honest." Jau, eenunsöstig
is' n Oeller, "he said serious." Where veel hebbt Se because Beuthien?
" asked Caroline. "Neegen piece."

"Lord of Life! Therese," cried the Wittfoth in the kitchen inside.
"Think you, Mr. Beuthien has nine children." "Nine?" was the surprised
query. "And all fixed and healthy, min wicks," said the old
man.

And as Therese in their cough broke out, they still stubbornly
molested, said the good-natured man, she should just about him coming
into the country because they could look tidy "rausessen". "Satt
get them here too," said Ms Caroline pikiert. It was in this
respect somewhat fragile. "Glöw ick, ick glöw" calmed Uncle
Martin. "But de hosting, hosting en oll, en mi geföllt nich."

"Yes, I do not know what it is with the cough," lamented the aunt.
"This has been so for weeks. We need to really nach'n doctor to
send. "doctor! doctor!" cried the old man "Wat salle de Keerl? air,
fresh air moet hebben se."

"For you it is much too stuffy, do not resent me," he added. "O,
aunt sits in love open doors and windows, "said Therese," but my
cold does not tolerate the train. "" If they do not, "decided Uncle
Martin.

"Train is harmful. But fresh air, yet hätt de Keenen Minsch umbrögt."
"Say I do not always work?" cried Caroline. "But everything will always
die when I just open up the door.'s Mir should be the same. I
say nothing more." Afternoon by five clock business was closed, which
means that the curtains before the windows were herabgelassen. As
the only access to housing through the shop resulted, had this to
stay open. Now, any interference by a buyer to keep away, Jürgens
Tetje had made the proposal, a poster to print, with the inscription:
This business is now five clock Engagements in the afternoon because
the owner closed. But his practical proposal did not succeed. A
great pleasure, it was the Wittfoth and including Therese that Hermann
had promised to come. Otherwise, only Tetje Jürgens woman besides
his wife asked. Tetje how briefly when he bade his friends, promised
by the evening, because his economy is not the whole afternoon with
the girls and the waiter let alone loved, for the evening but a
sister of his wife after the rights had to be seen.

Mrs Sophie but wanted to already for the "buffer" setting. Beuthien
Wilhelm also had fürerst have to apologize. He had a trip to Blankenese
can not reject, because it is good clients, and was only eight clock
zurückzuerwarten. Mrs. Caroline had spared no effort, their guests
are comfortable making. In the living room was all patches, each
Fädchen, every memory of business and labor, have been carefully
removed. A bouquet of roses and Reseda, Therese already with the
early morning the aunt was surprised, emblazoned in a white
Biskuitvase in the middle of a circle arranged in coffee cups, cake
between the mountains and the sugar bowl.

Cleanest clean curtains and table stuff understood when
Reinlichkeitsfanatikerin than what Mrs. Caroline likes to
spend, of course, as the freshly washed, crocheted Sofa Savers,
Hermanns greatest anger. "Whit cloth he had baptized them, because
the aunt once at this high feast with all the seating had such
ornaments curtain. In the" best "was the fitting room almost blinding.
Here emblazoned in the middle of the round sofa table in a blue
Sevres vase a tastefully tied bouquet of red and white roses, which
the gallant bridegroom had sent.

In a similar vase in the mirror stood a mighty protzend colored
ostrich Georgine, the uncle Martin his rural garden had taken. Also
on the window sill proud in water glasses and a small bouquet of
flowers rosagarniertes Krämer donated baskets. The practical man
had believed, but because the customers also have something to
thun. The attached business card in his name was Ochs Gotthilf between
two exclamation written a fleet! "Good luck and healing," the
delicate, carved cabinet smoke, a legacy of her Blessed, Mrs.
Caroline had filled with cigars, Hermann had the need to obtain.
As a small company, and William Tetje except for the coffee table
had gathered, met with a bouquet of striking range, with peaks and
loops garnished. A general Ah the delight received the wonderful
fragrant gift. Hermann, which they had removed the messenger ,
opened the envelope
enclosed with perfumed.

"With a warm greeting from the bride along with Emil Pohlenz," he
read from the small ivory card.

"Dear aunt."

With a funny should be on the bow, he handed the bouquet, which
according to the most indefatigable and admirers. Therese watched
him silently. After the assault forces on the cake mountains were
exhausted and the entertainment on weather, horse, cake baking
and the latest robbery to murder St. Pauli faltered came a little
beat Hermann Skat before.

He saw well that the long time until dinner otherwise impossible
demands on the talents of every convivial would. The three men
retreated to the game back into the adjoining room. The Cigarrenschrank
was opened, and Therese presented some lions beer bottles on hand.
The ladies expelled for taking the time to crochet, Albumbesehen
and kitchen conversations.

These sources dried up, were the errors and the neighbors Thorheiten
a rich trove interesting substance entertainment. The Merchants'
wife was now three times in fourteen days went into the theater.

A mother of two young children would have other duties but truthful.
The from the second floor, the ever so posh that, bought recently,
Aunt Tille had it with their own deaf ears heard for a whole penny
currants.

That the person is not ashamed. "And it does such people, as it stands
mit'n Mayor to You and You." And now as the woman Jürgens "Behnsch"
said Ms Caroline fell into a kreiselnde agility. "Do you know that?"
"Have you ever heard this?" "Nu leave but times tell." So running
it up. It was a pleasure, as well the time with such a pleasant
conversation was distributed, and how much the three ladies in their
life, in its verdict on the world and people concerned. Therese Only
then allowed and when a dissenting opinion . Since it is very
Abgespannt felt because of cough and its not much wanted to speak,
they often had five straight and silent. Even on the noisy speech,
by Aunt Stills deafness due to hand them on. She went from time to
time, made itself more than necessary in the kitchen and
watched the game in the adjoining room, where Hermann particularly
benefited from luck. Even some buyers who move from the herabgelassenen
curtains were not deterred, they are temporarily employed. Finally
came Tetje Jürgens and after him William.
Now concrete words
stand for the hypostasis of the nature; and hence of concrete words
we may predicate indifferently what belongs to either nature--whether
the word of which they are predicated refers to one nature, as the
word "Christ," by which is signified "both the Godhead anointing and
the manhood anointed"; or to the Divine Nature alone, as this word
"God" or "the Son of God"; or to the manhood alone, as this word
"Man" or "Jesus." Hence Pope Leo says (Ep. ad Palaest. cxxiv): "It is
of no consequence from what substance we name Christ; because since
the unity of person remains inseparably, one and the same is
altogether Son of Man by His flesh, and altogether Son of God by the
Godhead which He has with the Father."

Reply Obj. 1: In God, Person and Nature are really the same; and by
reason of this identity the Divine Nature is predicated of the Son of
God. Nevertheless, its mode of predication is different; and hence
certain things are said of the Son of God which are not said of the
Divine Nature; thus we say that the Son of God is born, yet we do not
say that the Divine Nature is born; as was said in the First Part (Q.
39, A. 5). So, too, in the mystery of the Incarnation we say that the
Son of God suffered, yet we do not say that the Divine Nature
suffered.

Reply Obj. 2: Incarnation implies union with flesh, rather than any
property of flesh. Now in Christ each nature is united to the other
in person; and by reason of this union the Divine Nature is said to
be incarnate and the human nature deified, as stated above (Q. 2, A.
1, ad 3).

Reply Obj. 3: What belongs to the Divine Nature is predicated of the
human nature--not, indeed, as it belongs essentially to the Divine
Nature, but as it is participated by the human nature. Hence,
whatever cannot be participated by the human nature (as to be
uncreated and omnipotent), is nowise predicated of the human nature.
But the Divine Nature received nothing by participation from the
human nature; and hence what belongs to the human nature can nowise
be predicated of the Divine Nature.
_______________________

SIXTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 16, Art. 6]

Whether This Is True: "God Was Made Man"?

Objection 1: It would seem that this is false: "God was made man."
For since man signifies a substance, to be made man is to be made
simply. But this is false: "God was made simply." Therefore this is
false: "God was made man."

Obj. 2: Further, to be made man is to be changed. But God cannot be
the subject of change, according to Malachi 3:6: "I am the Lord, and
I change not." Hence this is false: "God was made man."

Obj. 3: Further, man as predicated of Christ stands for the Person of
the Son of God. But this is false: "God was made the Person of the
Son of God." Therefore this is false: "God was made man."

_On the contrary,_ It is written (John 1:14): "The Word was made
flesh": and as Athanasius says (Ep. ad Epictetum), "when he said,
'The Word was made flesh,' it is as if it were said that God was
made man."

_I answer that,_ A thing is said to be made that which begins to be
predicated of it for the first time. Now to be man is truly
predicated of God, as stated above (A. 1), yet in such sort that it
pertains to God to be man, not from eternity, but from the time of
His assuming human nature. Hence, this is true, "God was made man";
though it is understood differently by some: even as this, "God is
man," as we said above (A. 1).

Herman and Mimi kiesbestreuten hurried through the garden. Numerous
lichtdämpfenden under frosted glass domes burning flames enlightened
him, but he does, partly candelabra-like piles of green notched worn,
partly as lanterns to pile on pile of running wire arches strung
together, not for adornment.

In a small case with the same tasteless green paint orchestra wore a
pavilion Chapel popular songs. The sharp rhythms of the Vienna
Gigerlmarsches and the splendor of many of the dark background of
bushes and foliage in uplifting the two lamps offset somewhat tired
from the road immediately comers in a peculiar, nervenprickelnden
intoxication. The muffled sounds of a second orchestra attracted
them in the hall. It was full of it, and they had to stand for a while,
until it at a side table found. The heat also forced them to guard
and overnight clothes in the wardrobe must. Herman and Mimi were
both newcomers no longer on such a dance floor. So they were as
blithely between funny dancing couples. When after the first waltz
to the tour of the hall followed, saw Hermann Behn Lulu on the arm
of a young dancer with a very slender pomadesatter, glattgescheitelter
hairdo. He was amazed. "Is this not to over? " he asked Mimi. You
followed his gaze. "Really, Lulu Behn No, tell one how to here?"
"Yes, as we come here?" Hermann laughed. "But?" said Mimi. You saw
Lulu at this moment a long, lean brunette who stood among the
spectators, a resigned look zuwerfen and armpits twitch slightly,
as a broad grin mocking the good-natured face sensual beautifies
the other no.

"It will be interesting," said Hermann. Soon Lulu Mimi had also
discovered and surprised her with the amount withdrawn Brauen zugeworfen
a surprised look, which she immediately a sympathetic smile could
follow. Then she went out of the arm off her friend,
with whom she danced the polka had last, and hurried on to Mimi.

"For God's sake, lady, tell you nothing," she asked anxiously.

"My father suggests me dead" " His concern without you, "comforted
Mimi.

"One of the other hacks crow's eyes does not." Stupid person, thought
Lulu, but she said sigh of relief: "I am too. Beautiful souls are
found." The heat, however, what "? put them to cool fächelnd added
and removed with a gentle, confidential nod. Semmel A blonde, überhöflicher
Commission or assistant barber asked in singing, dialect sächselndem
Mimi to the honor of a dance, and Hermann had willy-nilly, just
politely granted.

As Lulu was left without a dancer, he dedicated it to this waltz. She
was extremely pleased with it. They had only danced with one another,
they needed no more to fear betrayal. Hermann, even a good dancer,
rarely had such a good dancer found.

He had her this is not easily believed. Mimi also danced splendidly,
but something lively, impatient. This smooth, effortless turning with
weighing and Lulu liked him, as they themselves, too. She saw
beneficial and could be lively and casually entertain. Only their
hasty, erratic Umhersuchen with eyes fell on him oddly.

"Find someone, Miss "he asked." No.. I? Why? My friend, "she stuttered.
Hermannstadt a moment forgot about Mimi and Lulu Blonden the bread
until it when connecting to stand before him and he came out about
the singing compliments of Saxony annoyed, more so as Mimi in
heiterster mood on the bland chatter received.

His jealousy awoke, and he refused to Lulu, who baffled the change
noted. Suddenly a whisper went through the ranks, and curious turned
here and there a girl upside down the entrance of the hall. "The
beautiful Wilhelm," halblaut it went from mouth to mouth.

"Who?" Hermann turned to his dancer. Lulu was very pale and
seemed to have asked his to have. Mimì but turned around smiling.
"Do you not?" she asked the couple. "No, who's that?" Hermann asked
back. "The beautiful Wilhelm, Wilhelm Beuthien our Beuthien
to know you do. You see, because he is so," said Mimi information.
They blithely showed his hand after the pillar near the entrance hall.
"Ah," said Hermann. "Certainly, this is so beautiful Wilhelm?
Well, any of its gusto. The women's need to know." "But you are not
well, Miss?" frightened, he turned to Lulu. "Please, no, it's
nothing. The heat," she stammered, as her handkerchief to cool before
the face of conservative. "Would you excuse me, Mr. Heinecke?"
She had let go his arm. "Then, my girlfriend already," she exclaimed,
and before Herman could say anything, she had to find a way that
gebahnt. "Let man, Caesar, the giebt itself," quipped the bread Blonde.
"Will probably be back." Wilhelm Beuthien had increased slightly
from his position at Lulu Behn immediately noticed and even their
deceased, as their eyes met. The boundless amazement, here to meet,
soon most of the secret joy, the fulfillment of his long cherished
desire it to be unexpectedly close. Whether they are with the Ladenmamsell
from the corner came? Sonderbar. Or ---- A superior smile flew over
his pretty face. The many girls desirous glances unnoticed leaving,
he looked, without changing his place, with Lulu's eyes. He had found
it again soon. In a corner of the hall was keen in conversation with
the girlfriend. In short, he decided on the two girls, Lulu had
almost unnoticed and called Lene Kröger to waltz to. Lulu bit on the
lip and took a step back.

She had become white and shaking. It was a chair nearby, and she was
glad to be able to sit down. Lene Kröger had a blushing virgin
Beuthiens arm taken in vain endeavored to hide how much they are
by this unexpected invitation felt flattered. With zusammengekniffenen
lips and eyes wutfunkelnden pursued the two Lulu. Lene Kröger was
earlier for the best dancer in these circles, a sister of her solo
was even a ballet dancer at the Central Hall.

Lene still danced well. How graceful the gaunt, angular person is
understood to be weighed. Lulu was boiling with jealousy and anger.
The ignominy! Beuthien seemed no end to find them. And like Lene
laughed. He said in a continued with her. At last the music stopped,
and the two came back. With a short, lax, and a bow schlenkernden
arm movement threw the long Beuthien formally girls back to his seat.
"The dances, however, was hochatmend Lene, and fans with the handkerchief
cooling. Lulu was crying the next. Mühsam beat it. "This I find common
to you," she hissed. "Na nu, what can I do that?" Lene asked
innocently.

Lulu silent. "Child, do not pütscherig," laughed the good-natured
brunette. "He dared not only ran." The log however, Lulu and
growled: "nonsense." "He's still so take care," claimed Lene. "He
asked me if you test well dance."

"And what you said?" it was the wounded rushed to the floor. "How
Etelka of ballet," joked another.

"But do you see? He is looking for you already." The music began again
and playing a Rhinelanders. "My God, what is this? Rhinelanders?"
Lulu asked shocked. "Den I can not." "Oh, what's just wag. If only
he can," said Lene. And because he was already. "My lady." With a
faint hint of sarcasm and a doubting questioning glance planted
itself Beuthien with a loud hoe blow almost militarily before on
Lulu. For a moment the thought came to her, him a basket to give.
What was it a? With a silent bow, she took his arm. Your schwindelte.
The blood streamed down her violently by the head. You hardly hear the
music. Fortunately, he does not like to dance with her, but joined
the promenierenden in pairs. "Auch'n bischen here, Miss," he began
the conversation. "How comes that?" "Yes, it did so. My friend," she
said faltering. "Nice girl," he praised. "Rank and slender. Schroeder
is it called?" "Kröger," she corrected. The number was up to them,
and they danced. Beuthien waltz danced by the pace of the Rhine
country,
and they left to breathe his leadership.

Like 'ne spring, "he coaxed her during the dance."

Do you?

"He lifted it instead of a response with strong momentum from the ground,
so that them a few seconds in his arms freely floated. The second
time, it seemed to him to make fun, she cried quietly. "Not,
not," she gasped. He swings, but a third time, so that the teeth
zusammenbiß. "Hoch's here, lady. The time is no different." She
laughed.

An unprecedented feeling fought their shame down. "When the old man
knew that," he frightens them. "For God's sake," she whispered, as
a watchdog stands behind them. "The blessing," he said telling.
So they came to their family to speak. He was not influenced by
Lulu and danced the next dance with her. They, overjoyed, but their
purpose to have reached, and was always talkative mood.

It was his treat with beer, he also invited her friend to memories of
youth came to the language, and a cozy confidentiality was required.
"Because the dog is buried," said Mimi, when she with Hermann at the
table went over, where the Three amicably that. "Should they really?"
asked Hermann.

"A conspiracy?" "Certainly," assured Mimi. "This is not as pious as
it looks. I know my Pappenheim." Basically, they knew their Pappenheim
only very superficially, and was no less astonished than Hermann, Lulu
Behn with the young Droschkenkutscher in such intimacy on the dance
floor to take, because the young acquaintance of the two was her
alien.

Mimi, Lulu beside the "noble" appearance among all the "ladies", was
much sought after and could not get enough of dancing. Always she
asked, still just a waltz, and Hermann had to give. He himself was
not entirely his account with this pleasure. It wanted him to be
well below the "house servants" and "Häringsbändigern". And then
plagued him the jealousy, and he was chokiert that Mimi in such
"gentlemen" ever took place and they favor the same stage with him
was. The Mimi was a suitable, depending irritant saw it. There was a
fire in the girl, which surprised him. His passion would have dared
to kiss on kiss, when he is in this moment with her lonely dirt road
that would be gone. He had a hand during a waltz is allowed, and he
had been through it with impunity. When he was only an hour with her
alone could. But it was not from the floor to continue. What Tanzwut!
Finally, he persuades them to go. When he was their help in the
dressing room was, it cost him trouble, in the presence of the wardrobe
woman to dominate, so intoxicated him of their closeness and the
perfume of violets, which her black jacket entströmte.

"We take a cab," he decided. "Nonsense" , she protested. "They have
not less than ten marks." "Anyway," he insisted. Should he now
stiffly beside her in the train sitting in horses, where every
fiber in him after a repetition of Heldenthat of dirt pushed?

He wanted to speak out, even today. He took the bag to the cloakroom
money to be paid. What was that? He looked in all the pockets, his
wallet was gone. Mimi looked at him shocked. He crashed into the
back room and came back pale and distraught. The wallet was gone. It
contained twentieth Mark silver pieces and a lot of money, five
to six marks, as he estimated. The waiter ran together, the landlord
came. You shrugged, regretted, but what should it do? There was
nothing left when it provisionally in the loss to add. Now you have
had with the horses train take preference. But, it was Hermann now
that he also had no penny. "Do you have money with him, Miss?" he
asked hesitantly. You blushed violently. "Twenty cents," she laughed
embarrassed. For a moment it was puzzled until zaudernd Mimi Lulu's
name was called.

What it helped that we had to try. Impossible saw the Ottensen long
way from home at night to walk. Lulu was pleased about this new
opportunity for the two to commit. It began
in the fare Zehnpfennig pieces abzuzählen.

"Let but the Pfennigkram," scolded Beuthien, drew his wallet and
weighed it in ostentatious of the Left.

"Please do," he urged Mark Hermann a ten piece.

"We see us again." Ungern Hermann took just Beuthien of this complacency,
but in order not to be naughty, he refused not for long. That was
an unpleasant end of the day. There was no prospect exists, the
Lost or Stolen back. The pleasure it was expensive. The ring, which
he had Mimi, was also already on the Conto this month, now this
loss, as it was, until the next First is very restrictive.

It was already so hard-up to the limits of its pecuniary strength,
his love, cost him much.

Mimi was in the horse tired and yawned train a few times hearty.
Hermann could not have come across his loss. Almost he repented
this extravagance, as he was now minded his trip with Mimi to call.

He was once very disenchanted, and Mimi came to him, as they are sleepy
in the corner of the car pushed very unfavorable before.

But when they separated, and she with Herzenston their sincere
thanks for the "beautiful" Day said, suggested the old flame
again. Oh what, he thought. It was so nice. The kiss between the
hedges fell him. "For the wages," he asked and put his hand on her,
which already handles the Ladenthür touched, which he willingly open
their service was. One second she saw him at uncomprehendingly.
He covered her, and half-tired, half upsurge in kind, she let it
happen, that he kissed. XI. Some days after this "heavenly" Mimis
Sunday evening, Mr. Emil Pohlenz, by the Mueller Company and Lenze,
without sample case, in formal dress, with bright and modern Glacés
Cylinder vorgefahren in a cab and had the hand of Mrs. Caroline
Wittfoth stopped. Under mutual embarrassment, and behind räusper
Fußscharren looked a hideout, had been along the narrow corridor to
the back room komplimentiert good. The large, altväterische wardrobe,
of course this still cramped, it had on his conscience, something
that the myopic Mr. Pohlenz the zeal of courtesy and grazed the wall
with a white sleeve, the "good" bar reached.

This was a welcome occasion where, in course of the cleaning efforts,
the mutual embarrassment to be overcome. On the edge of the faded
yellow-brown rips chair balancing, languishing with a view over
the golden Pincenez out, then had Mr.

Pohlenz the widow's heart laid at the feet, "after careful reflection
and with the firm conviction that they would be happy together.
"Caroline in turn had made no secret of the fact that in its five years
of widowhood is far from the benefits of marriage to appreciate had
forgotten, and was implying that the opportunity of returning to the
deserted port their not unworthy of attention appeared. Mr. Pohlenz
commercial efficiency, the business would necessarily preclude
unsuspected splendor lead, the capital of six thousand marks, which
he mitbrächte would not be underestimated, and what "the rest" were
concerned, so they feel immensely flattered and would be convinced
that mutual respect and consideration for the hoped-luck would vouch.

Mr. Pohlenz noted its respect, its very special respect beyond all
doubt, and "consideration, my God, considerations should we all take.
How else should the world exist." Once you even a quarter of an
hour on the happiness of marriage in general and the advantages of
a connection Wittfoth Pohlenz and in particular more or less
sentimental considerations had employed, but had to ask Mrs. Caroline,
they
are not already on this step, content-heavy to push.

Eight weeks of reflection, he may allow it, then they wanted final
decision and, as I said, they knew to appreciate the honor.

Mr. Pohlenz not wanted to push.

Eight weeks would be a long time, "when it comes to the happiness
of a life is." Here he underwent Cylinder from all sides so a detailed
visual inspection, as he pondered whether the same time, this
test would survive. But it was his principle, he said, not without
careful consideration to thun.

Head and heart he had always, so to say, as a man and a woman is
alleged, and the man because it would always be "the one who." This
remark, so witty in his eyes may have been, but was still a little
clumsy Free , and the impression he was looking through a short cough
embarrassment to blur. Mrs. Caroline ordered yet, it was just her,
"everything you need to think of themselves", a Gros Perlmutterknöpfe,
the smallest number.

Then we separated, after Mr. Pohlenz some other pattern was employed
without success, a binding handshake. Vertröstete The Freedom have
not yet had the shock of his cab open, and Mrs Caroline behind his
back their rights vigorously to the folds of her scrubs Wollkleides
.

In this cold, wet hands should they put her, for ever? In any case,
it would be reflected in the eight weeks yet thoroughly superior.
The two girls who have long been on Mr.

Pohlenz speculative heart so well were aware of how the neighborhood
teilnahmsvolle , had not a moment of doubt cared about the business
affairs and the aunt Prinzipalin travelers to the city by Müller
and Lenze in the state office had to negotiate. Mimi wanted to be
"dead" to laugh, when the Wittfoth to the inquiring eyes of the girl
with a not misinterpreted smile whose presumptions operated.
"Mrs. Pohlenz, congratulations," she exclaimed, shaking in front of
serenity.

It was this pertness already out, since she knew how Wittfoth
thought about her admirers. They found it to be "tasteful" This Knirps,
this Pomadenhengst. "If I were him just should not have," she said.
"Na, na!" Therese tease. "Den? not gold," declared Mimi. Therese
seriously doubted not Mimis dislike Pohlenz, but now she knew
enough that between Hermann and Mimi was a more serious
relationship, so far as they wanted to admit. The transport of the
two had after that, for Hermann as "expensive" Sunday lost the
previous ease. It required not the eyes of a jealous lover, to be
noted.

The aunt was clairvoyant enough and had not only made suggestions to
Therese, but also her nephew once themselves. Hermann, in the bliss
in which he voluntarily granted Gutenachtkuß returned, his loss of
money quickly verschmerzt had was with himself and his love in mind.

Mimi or not. So he held because of the aunt to not hide
behind the mountain. It was his firm intention to be engaged with
Mimi. Your Jawortes believed it to be sure. From Michaelis
erführe his salary to the scheduled refurbishing of three hundred
marks. Then he wished for the parents of the girl advertise until
then but not before Mimi even make the decision.

Mrs. Caroline did not have any reasons against it, but it was for
her aunt duty to warn against Uebereilung. Actually touched this
issue they are not deep, than any other. Their was even the thought
of the sensation which a double engagement would cause. Aunt and
nephew, and Assistant Prinzipalin, perhaps in a day. That would be
something for the neighbors. Yes, since Hermann expressed the firm
intention to marry,
they hung their marriage still eager after thought.

Mimi had after that day in Ottensen on Küsserei annoyed.

She was very unhappy with it.

How should they behave towards Hermann now? In itself it was the "silly
story" otherwise not so unpleasant. She thought not without
Genugthuung to the impression they made on Hermann.

Hermann was now in the room, in their vicinity, it was always, as he
would have to include them every moment and kiss. Usually they are
looking to cover their backs. But sometimes she was trembling, as under
a spell, if they knew him behind, alone with him, and how a desire
for forbidden fruit rose hot in her.

This was not without charm. But it is also very "called" Therese and
Prinzipalin over. It would be even more likely to come away, if only
the better to preserve impartiality would have understood. But this
was all so embarrassing.

Often he was uneasy, like a schoolboy, and then again by a kindness
which they compared to the others had put in a predicament. The
fact that he now belonged to her, just that they only extend his
hand to needed was any doubt about it.

Sooner or later he had to explain. What then? "She was really in a
difficult situation. The feeling that she felt for him, differed in
nothing from the interest that you einflößte every healthy man,
the marriage and in possession of his limbs was graden. Love
was not. About the love they ever had their own ideas. As she had in
the previous year for the brown, schwarzbärtigen post of Secretary in
Neustraße geschwärmt. And now? Recently, she saw him on the arm of
another, presumably his bride.
Reply Obj. 1: It belongs to every man to be a person, inasmuch as
everything subsisting in human nature is a person. Now this is proper
to the Man Christ that the Person subsisting in His human nature is
not caused by the principles of the human nature, but is eternal.
Hence in one way He is a person, as Man; and in another way He is
not, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 2: The "individual substance," which is included in the
definition of a person, implies a complete substance subsisting of
itself and separate from all else; otherwise, a man's hand might be
called a person, since it is an individual substance; nevertheless,
because it is an individual substance existing in something else, it
cannot be called a person; nor, for the same reason, can the human
nature in Christ, although it may be called something individual and
singular.

Reply Obj. 3: As a person signifies something complete and
self-subsisting in rational nature, so a hypostasis, suppositum, and
being of nature in the genus of substance, signify something that
subsists of itself. A half hour later testified nothing of the incident.
Wittfoth wife Caroline was the sort of hairpin packet employs her
edgy sense of order has always had something to judge, to modify and
improve, even as a maid in that, with the stuffed arm Kartoffelkiepe
, loud and erratic in the
shop came. "Nu?"

she asked with a beaming smile.

"Do me the needles rausgesucht?"
"They probably celebrate birthday today?"

said the Wittfoth the required hairpins surrounding. "I? Ne, how do
you mean?" "Well, I mean you, because you are so happy." "That you
say man. wants our time and a laugh. does annoy you so enough already.
"" Did you back what you had? "" With their nich. With it, I have
done.

But the others, who thinks wonder what it is, and must be but you
do scratch, if you what bites. "" But out of Nu, "said Ms Caroline
laughs, offended erheuchelnd sensitivity.

The other was comfortable but on the single cane chair on the Tonbank
down.

"Die? Believe you do not," she continued auszukramen.

"Soon they will not eat anymore laziness. Do you
think they stippt a finger in the water?

I forbid, could be so wet."

"As you may be the only way," Caroline went to the entertainment.

"When I mother would. "" Die? is nothing to with her not to "."
The Lord should make you want to tidy. The Wittfoth made a significant
gesture. "Thrice auf'n day and düchtig," the girl strove. "But
Herrjeses! I forget me quite. Well, that wird'n beautiful blessing.
It has not so good today."

She tore her Kartoffelkiepe itself and crashed with a confidential
"Schüüß woman Wittfoth" continues, with the icy shock door closing
behind him. "Deernsvolk!" scolded together frightened woman behind.
Wittfoth II wife Caroline was the widow of a small port officials,
who except for a small pension had so much left that they white
and Dutch goods act of ill owner could buy.

Four years since they had the well-established business with luck
continued and expanded. Klug and enterprising, it was soon in the
new conditions hineingearbeitet. She knew what she wanted. The
business traveler noticed that they helläugigen small woman and
could not aufschwätzen respected their business efficiency.

Moroseness More trouble and had her in the beginning, the young
girl, whose two needed, a saleswoman and a seamstress for the
preparation of the maid costumes.

She had a lot must change. The mostly uneducated, ambitious girl
searched the small, in some things even by inexperienced woman being
naughty to impress. But Ms Caroline Wittfoth was not in their own home
"kujonieren." She had always made short process and, if necessary,
every eight days, until they finally found the good people and in
this daily battle against insubordination, disarray and sloth extent
gestählt had trained and that they were now in regards to knowing.

For half a year she had her niece Therese Saß, the impoverished
daughter of a deceased sister, to itself, a zweiundzwanzigjähriges,
feeble, deformed little girl, the character evidence caring aunt
of duty with dedication loyalty vergalt.

Therese was very skilled at sewing and enjoyed Genugthuung
that recently, some ladies of her neighborhood simpler clothes, house
and dressing gowns, she made them. The Wittfoth themselves understood
nothing of this branch of their business, and anxious only to the
shop and the economy, assisted by a second young girl was supported.

The eighteen year old blonde blooming with large gray eyes flashing
Prinzipalin knew her well to take. Appointing and colleagues, she was
a successful endeavor, the Wittfoth essential to make them with
clever, ingratiating addressing its weaknesses and idiosyncrasies
to win.

Also, the customer, the pretty girl captivated by his pleasant,
responsive care. With the quiet, friendly lady had her niece Mimi
Kruse a warmer friendship. Naturally good-natured, she felt
sorry for the sickly, in a joyless youth atrophied, and they
felt the fresh, always cheerful nature Mimis as invigorating sunbeam
in the monotony of their right to waive any pure joy condemned
existence. So there were the three persons such as Mrs. in family
togetherness. Often a nephew came to visit the widow, Hermann
Heinecke, a school teacher. The young man was the son of her step-brother,
in a small country Mecklenburgische body possessed. Hermann wrong
like in the aunt, the young girl's sake. The kinship friendship
Therese joined a sincere appreciation of her gentle, patient care and
its finer, deeper soul life. But the devotion which he brought against
his cousin, did not, the pretty salesgirl his aunt at the same
time a warm interest gift. Mimi had no glow their admirers, as
Hermann Heinecke. They knew that and used all the little arts of
coquetry, for him to captivate. The good-natured, somewhat bland, of
a thin blonde bearded face framed by the young man was not "their
number", as they used to say. Their enthusiasm was the blacks,
Kraushaarigen. The golden glasses, Hermann wore söhnte but something
with his face. She had, like most young girls, a preference for
eye glasses, under these again the Pincenez preferred. The glasses
gave the very expressive face free of the teacher to lead to
more significant reputation. The friendly blue eyes saw without this
protection somewhat stupid in the world, won, but hidden
behind faded and Life.

Nor does the fact that the perimeter of the glasses was of gold,
fell for Mimi Kruse quite significant. They gave their attention
once a Mr that is actually against their taste was so-so, they had
valid reasons, for example, the prospect of near and adequate supply.
And the teacher was a young still. The Prinzipalin her nephew had
been Michaelis employed, had a steady income and were entitled to
pension. But he already had his blond and wear a simple crown. Hermann
had promised the two girls, they are on the first Easter walk, and
now came on the Friday before the festivities, still evening at 9
clock to his invitation to repeat the details to bereden. They wanted
to favorable weather for an afternoon walk in the evening and a theater
or concert house.

In case of bad weather should be on or in the Dammthorbahnhof
Aussenalster pleasure of drinking coffee. The girls were ready with
joy. Notably, Therese, of so rare a pleasure was happy like a child.
Mimi brought immediately to the question. What I prefer? Hermann saw
her favorite in bright clothing, and she went immediately to his
request, her light blue Wollkleid them. By Therese suit was not the
speech.

Their wardrobe was not very rich. Also she wore only black. Halber
decency had also invited my aunt, in the condition that they would
refuse. We knew that it was not a prize to any one days, and closed
her business is looking for something to stay at home when others went
out. They did the slope of the martyr to play by all children of God
which was plagued. Hermann breathed Nevertheless, when she
indignantly rejected the imposition, on the afternoon of the
first Easter day to close their shop. She had a thousand reasons
against it. Especially on this day they still had years in any business
is done brilliant. For them, there would be no holidays. As the well
should be, if they wanted to walk walk. And so they burrte to the
room, since the shop bell rings.

"Therese, come look at the back," she called back immediately by the
hastily Gaping Thür. "Miss Behn wants level have taken." With
her meter and note booklet followed Therese. Mimi sat at a round
Sophatisch. She had the low light from a blue frosted glass
tightly in front of stage and was employed, the thin, flexible
steel rods into the waist of a bright girl dress in place. The glow
of the light fell full on her somewhat large, but soft, schöngeformten
hands, well maintained, although not every track domestic Thätigkeit
him removed. With a little precious attitude of the little finger led
the needle.

The uniform motion of the full, rosy girls hand, which means began a
slender ring with a false green matt stone glittered, Hermanns
captivated gaze. "How do you just bear this false stone, Miss
Mimi," he said. "Give me a genuine, Mr Heinecke" said she, without
aufzusehen. "If you are like," he joked. "Am I not always?" She
looked at him now, with a concealed derision in the gray
eyes, he escaped. In anticipation of the long-awaited starting
with her she appeared to him twice today seductive. With it alone now,
and so fast in this insidious entertainment advised he felt
completely in the power of her charms. Without addressing her question
to answer, he stood up and stood silently beside her chair, the
re-working people watch.

A faint scent of violets, her favorite perfume, which she discreetly
discarded, however, rose to him. He took the scent admits. "Oh,
Violet." "The last drop," she laughed. "If it's dispelled, it is made
with the violet glory." "Then keep the roses." "How so?" He touched
the back of the right hand gently her left cheek.

"As the fire." They beat him. She had made him strong. The Foxglove
entflog beat her and rolled through the room under the old oak
secretary, whose brass rings and Schlüssellochumkleidungen the
annoyances of the young girls were, as ever, this shiny ornaments of
Wittfoth enough shine.

Hermann, on the pursuit of the runaways, was bäuchlings on the
floor and fishes and pustend and ächzend swept with a long wooden
knitting embroidery aunt fairly deep under the furniture around the
room than from the outside are opened and the bright voice was loud
aunt: "Our working and living room, lady." At the same time Miss Behn
appeared in the frame of the door, even before the Wittfoth the
unusual position of her nephew rights. In the greatest confusion
Hermann soared upwards, with bestaubten sleeves and Rockschößen on
which is also
the inevitable threads of the set had Nähstube. guffaw greeted him
in which he inevitably einstimmte.

"Miss Behn, my nephew, Mr.

Heinicke," observed his aunt.

The young lady tailor the nephews with a little mocking glance,
that the escape, as he in his humble knight service glasses were
carefully removed and still between your thumb and forefinger of the
left hand is held by frightened. Therese ended the strange scene,
setting out with the clothes brush to clean her cousin did.

III. The Easter morning promised a serene, if somewhat chilly
festive. Full of sunshine was on the harsh landscape early as the
bells of St. Gertrude the believers and in need of edification to
worship cried.

The Wittfoth, accompanied Therese, was among the Kirchgängern. Since
the church so conveniently at hand, that they do in ten minutes was
omitted the small, lively, never far from pious woman, at least at
the high holidays to hear the preaching and singing at the church
to be built. " This one is guilty, "she said.

"I certainly do not belong to the Betschwestern, but first wants
the man but something higher. And for me it always has something
Festive when the boys sing and to play the organ." Therese accompanied
the aunt to church regularly, also frequently visited the church
service alone.

Their construction was the sincere heart desire. She had the faith
here on earth just arrived at the sky and its compensatory pleasures.
Like all matters of the heart, they also included these things with
great warmth and feeling, in painful contrast to the aunt, also
here the surface is not denied.

"Oh, I believe in nothing," said Wittfoth once. "I will be making
a's well. We must all die, and from the top is still not come back
down alive." Had a secret fear of the little woman in front of the
buried-alive-be. If there is any were involved, they should be
burned after her death, not only "einpurren." "Then you can my ashes
spread in all winds. Then you are going on me," she said. "On my grave
but no one coming, it's better to burn me your equal." Before the
Kirchenthür met Therese and her aunt, Mrs. Behn on with their daughters.
"Well, Mrs. Behn, auch'n bischen here?" asked the Wittfoth. "Dat is
ja mal nu de Dag dorto" said the Angeredete to the trouble to make
their oldest likes platt said. mustered with Miss Lulu
casual greeting the toilets of the aunt and niece. "Then you pray
you right", laughed the mother Wittfoth to quickly smooth the
wrinkles of her face to plump fun andachtsvollem and urged humility
of expression with the general flow through the somewhat narrow
entrance to the friendly, only newly built church. Mimi Kruse
watched the shop now. Their church was nothing but a house with a
tower. Since her confirmation, she had only once heard a sermon, that
is, in such a purchase made on the singing of the church, to whose
sake it with a girlfriend in the church "dragged" had.

Because the church had just become fashion. "When the heart is
good, the prayer does not", she claimed, and entschlug in reliance
on their good hearts of all Christian exercises. Even now, she had
instead of the hymnal to the next General Gazette on the window sill,
and overflew the novel in the features section. Your thoughts,
however, spent only half in disdainful abandoned countess, the
other half belonged to the blue dress that she wanted to attract
the afternoon, and on which all sorts of small improvements and changes
were made. Hübsch Mimi wanted to be at Hermann's side, with Sunday
his dark blue overcoat, a soft gray felt hat, the "Colored Bismarck"
and the golden glasses always looked so noble. If he not only wanted
to be so boring, so annoying with his incessant Kurmacherei. On the
contrary, her most resistant to, in love smile at. Your blow on
Friday evening had been taken seriously. They hated these
"Antatzerei," as they called it. When he referred to the length
of the floor was, he appeared on its very laughable. Today,
however, to go out, he was doing well enough. He was not "grown", and
was happy with a certain ostentation.
But in Christ the first mover and
commander was the Divine will, since in Christ everything human was
moved by the Divine will. Hence it seems that in Christ there was
only one will, viz. the Divine.

Obj. 2: Further, an instrument is not moved by its own will but by
the will of its mover. Now the human nature of Christ was the
instrument of His Godhead. Hence the human nature of Christ was not
moved by its own will, but by the Divine will.

Obj. 3: Further, that alone is multiplied in Christ which belongs to
the nature. But the will does not seem to pertain to nature: for
natural things are of necessity; whereas what is voluntary is not of
necessity. Therefore there is but one will in Christ.

Obj. 4: Further, Damascene says (De Fide Orth. iii, 14) that "to will
in this or that way belongs not to our nature but to our intellect,"
i.e. our personal intellect. But every will is this or that will,
since there is nothing in a genus which is not at the same time in
some one of its species. Therefore all will belongs to the person.
But in Christ there was and is but one person. Therefore in Christ
there is only one will.

_On the contrary,_ our Lord says (Luke 22:42): "Father, if Thou wilt,
remove this chalice from Me. [Note 9: In case promoted by Don Jeronimo
de Leyva in April 1604 before the provisor general of the
archbishopric of Seville, by reason of having presented a gift
of Francisco Acuña, that canon of Holy Church, a few letters of the
Auditor of the House of His holiness, by which he sub-delegated their
whole time to see if Don Alonso de Ulloa had been reared gift of
Cardinal Rodrigo de Castro, testified under questioning from a
variety of witnesses, among them Luis Vélez de Santander, that is
our Velez de Guevara, and Lope de Vega Carpio.

My dear friend the learned cervantes don Adolfo Rodríguez Jurado, who
found this lawsuit, brought to light an interesting statement in the
Lope _Boletín of the Real Academia Sevillana de Buenas Letras_ (September
1917), and has helped me by copying me Velez's statement, which is
known to some very important things for biography. He said 'that is
hedad of veynte and five years more or less ", and answering the first
question, that he met the Hon. Don Rodrigo de Castro, who was in
Seville arçobispo by queste Paje witness served four years in which
the latter was in the death of the Cardinal said, because he died two
months before the witness left the service ....» In the second,
"said he knows that Don Alonso de Ulloa died in the town of bull for
the month of August last year six hundred and three, and this witness
is served in fifteen days or valladolid veynte die before ... .
'And in the sixth: "queste witness was with the cardinal said that
the day of Madrid, Valencia and combine, where he was the Don Alonso
de Ulloa said ....»] [Footnote 10: _Vélez_ added to the _Guevara_
omitted and the mother's maiden name, that in calling continued
Écija _Vélez of Dueñas_, like his father.

Now
the will pertains to the perfection of human nature, being one of its
natural powers, even as the intellect, as was stated in the First
Part (QQ. 79, 80). Hence we must say that the Son of God assumed a
human will, together with human nature. Now by the assumption of
human nature the Son of God suffered no diminution of what pertains
to His Divine Nature, to which it belongs to have a will, as was said
in the First Part (Q. 19, A. 1). Hence it must be said that there are
two wills in Christ, i.e. one human, the other Divine.

Reply Obj. 1: Whatever was in the human nature of Christ was moved at
the bidding of the Divine will; yet it does not follow that in Christ
there was no movement of the will proper to human nature, for the
good wills of other saints are moved by God's will, "Who worketh" in
them "both to will and to accomplish," as is written Phil. 2:13. For
although the will cannot be inwardly moved by any creature, yet it
can be moved inwardly by God, as was said in the First Part (Q. 105,
A. 4). And thus, too, Christ by His human will followed the Divine
will according to Ps. 39:9; "That I should do Thy will, O my God, I
have desired it." Georg Büchner Danton's Death A Drama persons: deputy
to the National Convention: Georges Danton Legendre Camille Desmoulins,
Hérault Séchelles Lacroix Philippeau Fabre d'Eglantine Mercier Thomas
Payne members of the Welfare Committee: Robespierre St. Just Barère
Collot d'Herbois Billaud-Varennes Chaumette, municipal prosecutor
Dillon, a General Fouquières-Tinville, public prosecutors and Amar
Vouland, members of the security committee and Herman Dumas, president
of the Paris Tribunales Revolution, Danton's friend Simon, Souffleur
wife Julie Simons Laflotte , Danton's wife, Lucile, wife of Camille
Desmoulins Rosalie, Adelaide and Marion, Grisette ladies at the
game table, gentlemen and ladies, and young Mr. and Eugenie on a
promenade, citizen, citizen soldiers, and other Lyoner deputy,
Jacobin, President of the Jacobin Clubs and the National Convention,
NO, carters and executioners, men and women from the people, Grisette,
minstrel, beggars, etc.

First Act First Scene Hérault-Séchelles, some ladies at the game
table. Danton, Julie a little further away, Danton on a stool at
the feet of Julie. Danton. Look at the pretty lady, how good she turns
the cards! Yes indeed, it's understood, they say, they believe
her husband is always the heart and the other people out Carreau. -
You could even lie in the love making. Julie. Do you believe in me?
Danton. What do I know! We know little about each other. We are
pachyderms, we stretch the hands one after the other, but it is
wasted effort, we write only the rough leather from each other -
we are very lonely. Julie. You know me, Danton. Danton. Yes, what you
know is so.

You have dark eyes and curly hair and a fine complexion and always
say to me, dear George! But (he points to her forehead and eyes)
because, as what lies behind? Go, we have rough sense. Know each
other? We had our skull blankets and break each other's thoughts
from the brain fibers tear. - A lady (in the Hérault). What did you
do with your fingers before? Hérault. Nothing! Dame. Do not rest your
thumb, so it is not handsome! Hérault. Sehn only, the thing has a
very own physiognomy . - Danton. No, Julie, I love you like the
grave. Julie (turn away). Oh! Danton. No, listen! People say, was
resting in the grave, and grave and quiet that one.

If it is, is located in your lap, I was under the earth. You süßes
grave, thy lips are dead bells, your voice is my bell grave, thy breast
my barrows and your heart my coffin. - Lady. Verloren! Hérault. It was
a Love adventure, it costs money like all the others. Dame.
Then you have your declarations of love, like a deaf-mute, with
the fingers made. Hérault. Oh, why not? Man wants to even say, would
be just the most easily understood. - I zettelte an affair with the
queen on a card, my fingers
were transformed into spider prince, you, Madame, were the fairy,
but it went bad, the lady was always in the weeks, every moment she
got a boy.

I would like my daughter can not play, the men and women are so
rude about each other and the boys come back to the same.

(Camille Desmoulins and Philippeau occur.) Hérault. Philippeau how
cloudy eyes!

Did you get a hole in the red cap is cracked? St. James has a
bad face? Has it rained during the Guillotinierens? Or did you get
a bad place and you can not see anything? Camille. Parodierst you
to Socrates. Do you know what the Divine Alcibiades asked him when
he one day gloomy and dejected was: "Do you have your shield on the
battle field be lost?

Are you in the race or the sword has been defeated? Else has a better
sung, or rather the zither beaten? "What classical republicans!
Take our guillotine once opposed romance! Philippeau. Today there are
twenty again fallen victim. We were in error, one has only to the
Hebertisten scaffold sent because they did not systematically
enough, perhaps also because the Dezemvirn believed to be lost if
it is only a week, where men had obtained more than they feared.

Hérault. You Antediluvianern want us to do. St. Just Seeding 'is not
reluctant when we're on all fours Kröcher, so we advocate of Arras
on the mechanics of the Geneva watchmaker case Hütchen, school
benches and reinvent God.

Philippeau. They would not be afraid to Behuf to Marats account for
some zeros to hang. How long are we going to get dirty and bloody
as neugeborne children coffins to the cradle and play with heads?
We must forward: the Committee must be enforced grace, the ausgestoßnen
deputies must be resumed! Hérault. The revolution is in the
stage of reorganization arrives. - The revolution must stop, and the
Republic must begin. - In our state has the right principles to
replace the obligation to the welfare of the virtue and the defense
to the penalty occur.

Each claim must be and its nature can enforce. He likes are rational
or irrational, educated or uneducated, good or evil, which is the state
nothing. We are all fools, it's not the right, another his peculiar
madness necessary. - Each in its way must be able to enjoy, however,
that none of expenses of another or enjoy him in his peculiar enjoyment
may disturb. Camille. The state must be a transparent garment which
tightly against the body of the people hugs. Each threshold of
cores, each stretching of muscles, twitching of the tendons of each
must be in fire. The figure may now be beautiful or ugly, she has
even the right to be what it is we are not entitled to it a
Röcklein in any crop. - We are the people, what about the bare shoulders
of the sinner France allerliebsten the nuns want to throw veil,
finger on the beat. - We want naked gods, Bacchae, Olympic Games,
and melodic lips: oh, the member redeeming, wicked love!

- We want to deny the Romans not to interfere in the corner and
to bring beets to boil, but it should not gladiatorial games we
want to give more. - The divine Epicure and Venus with the beautiful
ass instead of the saints and Marat Chali bouncer of the Republic.
- Danton, thou shalt the attack in the Convention do!

Danton. I will, thou wilt, he will. If we have not yet live! say
the old women. After an hour, sixty minutes verflossen be. Not true,
my boy? Camille. What is this? That goes without saying Danton.

Oh, it goes all by itself Who should be because all the beautiful
things in the work place? Philippeau. We and the honest people. Danton.
That "and" in between is a long word, it keeps us a little far
apart, the distance is long, the honesty lose their breath, anyway,
we come together. And though! - Honest people can borrow money,
you can stand with them gossip and his daughters
to marry them, but that's all!

Camille. If you know why you started the fight?

Danton. The people were against me.

I could spread like never Katon handsome without them a kick to
give. My temperament is even so. (He rises.) Julie. You go? Danton
(to Julie). I must continue, they write me with their policies still.
- (In Hinausgehn:) Between the door and Angel I will prophesy unto
you: the statue of liberty is not yet cast, the stove glows, we can
all still be burning the fingers. (Ab) Camille. Let him!

Believe her, he could steer clear of it when it comes to action ways;
the point? Hérault. Yes, but just for entertainment, how to play
chess. Second Scene One lane Simon. His wife. Simon (the woman
proposing). Kuppelpelz you, you wrinkled Sublimatpille, you sin
apple worm! Wife. He, Hülfe! Hülfe! (There are people gone.) People.
Tear it apart, tear them apart! Simon. No, leave me, Romans! I want
to smash this skeleton! You Vestalin!

Woman. Vestalin I? I want to see me. Simon. So I tear the shoulders of
your dress. Naked in the sun schleudr 'I then thy carrion. You bitch
bed, in every wrinkle of your womb nests fornication. (You will be
disconnected.)

First Citizens. What's up? Simon. Where's the Virgin? Say! No, I can
not say. The girl! No, they can not. The woman, woman! Also, that is
not! Only one name, oh, the choking me! I had no breath for it.
Second citizen. This is good, otherwise the name would smell brandy.
Simon.

Virginius age, hide your bald Main - shame the raven sits on it and
your eyes after chopping. Give me a knife, Romans! (He declines to.)
Woman. Ah, he is otherwise a good man, he just can not tolerate
much; liquor makes him a leg. Second citizen. Then he goes with three.
Weib. No, he falls. Second Citizens . True, he goes with only three,
and then he falls on the third until the third falls itself.
Simon. You are the vampire tongue, my warmest Herzblut drinking. woman.
Let him only, it's the time, what he always is stirred, it will
already give. First Citizens. What's that? woman. You see her, so
I sat there on the stone in the sun and warmed me, you see -
because we have no wood, you see - Second citizens. To take
your husband nose. Weib. And my daughter was there hinuntergegangen
around the corner - it is a good girl and eats her parents. Simon. Ha,
she confesses! woman. You Judas! you only had one pair trousers
tighten up when the young men not in their pants hinunterließen?
You Branntweinfaß, wilt thou thirst, if the Brünnlein ceases to run,
he? - We work with all the links, why not also to do so, her mother
has done, how it was born, and it has hurt her done; it for her mother
not also establish he? and does it's also hurt in the process he?
You fool! Simon. Ha, Lucretia! a knife, give me a knife, Romans! Ha,
Appius Claudius! First Citizens. Yes, a knife, but not for the poor
whore! What did they? Nothing! Hurt your hunger and begging. A
knife for the people who are the meat of our wives and daughters
buy.

Woe on, so with the daughters of the people whoring! You Koller in the
womb, and they have the stomach Press; you have holes in the
jackets, and they have warm skirts; ye have calluses in the fists,
and they have Samthände.

Ergo, it works, and they do not, ergo, it's you acquired, and they
have it stolen, ergo, if ye from your property a few gestohlnen
Heller again want to have to beg her whoring and, ergo, they are
thieves, and we must kill them!

third citizen. They have no blood in the veins, than what we have
ausgesaugt. They told us: smite the dead aristocrats, those are wolves,
we have the aristocrats at
the lantern hanging.

You said the veto eat your bread and we have killed the veto.

You said the Girondisten starve you out, we have the Girondisten
guillotiniert.

But they have stripped the dead, and we run as before on bare legs and
freeze. We want to give them the skin of the thighs, and trousers
that make us, we want them to omit the fat and melt away with
our soups. Fort! Killed, who is no hole in the rock has! First
Citizens. Killed, who can read and write! Second citizen. Killed who
goes abroad! All (scream). Killed! Killed! (Some pull a young man
of guilt.) Some votes. He has a handkerchief!

An aristocratic! to the lantern! to the lantern! Second citizen. What?
schneuzt he is not the nose with your fingers? At the Lantern! (A
lantern is lowered.) Young man. Oh, my gentlemen Second citizen.
There are no gentlemen At the Lantern! Some (singing). Those
who are in the earth, from de Würm eaten; Better hang in the air, as
a decay in the tomb!

Young man. Mercy! Third citizens. Only one game with a Hanflocke
to neck! 's is only a moment, we are merciful than you. Our life is
the murder through work and we are sixty years on the rope and
zapplen, but we will losschneiden. - At the lantern!

Young man. I am, so you will not see light. The bystanders. Bravo!
Bravo! Few votes. Let him run! (He entwischt.) (Robespierre occurs,
accompanied by women and no trousers.) Robespierre. What's
there, people?

Third citizens.'s What will give? The few drops of blood in August and
September have the people, the red cheeks are not made. The guillotine
is too slow. We need a place rain! First Citizens. Our wives and
children cry for bread, we want to feed meat with aristocrats. Hey!
killed, who is no hole in the rock has! All. killed! Killed!
Robespierre. In the name of the law! First Citizens. What is the
law? Robespierre. The will of the people. First Citizens. We are the
people, and we want to make sure that no law is, ergo, this will of
the law, ergo the the name of the law, there's no law more,
ergo killed! Some voices. Listen to the Aristide! hears the incorruptibles!
A woman. Listen to the Messiah, who is sent, to choose and to judge
he is evil with the sharpness of the sword beat. His eyes are the eyes
of the election, his hands are the hands of the court.

Robespierre. Armes, virtuous people! You do your duty, you sacrifice
your enemies. People, you're great! You offenbarst yourself under
lightning and thunder blasting beats. But, people, pranks you
can lend your body not to wound, you murder yourself in your wrath.
You can only by your own strength which is know your enemy. Your
legislators watch, they will result in your hands, and their eyes
are untrügbar, your hands are inescapable. Come along to the Jacobins!
You are your brothers open their arms, we will have a blood court
our enemies hold.

Many voices. Among the Jacobins! Vive Robespierre! (All from.) Simon.
Woe to me to leave! (He tries to make up.) Woman. There! (It supports
him.) Simon. Oh, my Baucis! you collect coals on my head. Weib. Da
steh! Simon. You turn away from? Ha, you can forgive me, Porcia?
I beat you? That was not my hand, it was not my arm, my madness
did it. His madness is poor Hamlet of the enemy. Tat's not Hamlet,
Hamlet's denied.

Where is our daughter, where is my Sannchen? Woman. Here at the Eck
around. Simon . Continue to her! Come my virtuous rich husband. (Both
from.) Third, the Jacobin club scene A Lyoner. The brothers
of Lyon send us to your chest bittren their displeasure be
distributed.

We do not know if the cart to the guillotine for Ronsin drove the
car dead of freedom, but we know that since that day the killers
Chali again firmly on the ground appear as if there is no grave for
them there.

Did you forget that Lyon stains on the soil of France is the one
with the bones of the cover must be a traitor?

Have you forgotten that the whore of the Kings their leprosy in the
waters of the Rhone can wash? Did you forget that this revolutionary
power, the Pitts fleets in the Mediterranean on the corpses of
stranded aristocrats must do? Your mercy kills the revolution. The
breath of an aristocrat is the Röcheln of freedom. Only a coward
dies for the Republic, a Jacobin kill for them.

Know: We find in you no longer the clamping of the men of the
10th August, September and the 31 May, it leaves us like the Patriots
Gaillard, only the dagger of Kato. (Applause and cries
confused.) A Jacobin. We are the cup of Socrates drink with you!
Legendre (vibrates to the grandstand). We have no need to look at
our Lyon to throw. The people who Seidner wear clothes, drive the
carriages in which the boxes sit in the theater and after the
dictionary of the academy speak for several days, take the heads
firmly on the shoulders.

They are funny and say that we need to Marat and Chali a double
martyrdom and help them in guillotinieren Effigies. (Violent motion
in the Assembly.) Some voices. The people are dead, their tongue they
guillotiniert. Legendre. The blood of the saints come over them! I
ask the members of the Welfare Committee, since when their ears have
become so numb ... Collot d'Herbois (interrupts him).

And I ask you, Legendre, whose voice is such a breath of thought,
that they are alive and dare to speak ? It is time the masks blocks.
Hear! The cause sued their effect, the reputation of its echo, the
reason its consequence. The Welfare Committee understands more
logic, Legendre. Be quiet!

The busts of the saints are prejudiced, they are the traitors
Medusenhäupter in stone related. Robespierre. I demand the floor.
The Jacobins. Listen, listen to incorruptibles! Robespierre. We waited
only to the cry of the reluctance of sounds from all sides to speak.
Our eyes were open, we saw the enemy to prepare and collect, but we
have the noise character is not given, we let the people themselves
are guarding, it has not slept, it has the weapons to beat. We let
the enemy out of his ambush gush, we could move him, now he is free
and uncovered in the light of day, each string will take him,
he is dead, once you've seen him. I've already told you: into two
departments, as in two Heerhaufen are the internal enemies of the
Republic of decay. Under banners of different colors and a variety
of ways to rush them all the same goals. One of these factions is no
more. In her madness, she affected the Patriots tried worn as weaklings
to throw aside, to the Republic of their strongest arms to rob. They
said the deity and the property of the war to create a diversion
in favor of the kings to make. They parodied the sublime drama of the
Revolution, by the same excesses bloßzustellen studied. Hébert would
triumph the Republic turns into chaos and despotism was satisfied. The
sword of the law has taken the traitor.
Secondly, for contrariety of wills it is necessary that it should be
in the same will. For if a man wishes one thing with his rational
appetite, and wishes another thing with his sensitive appetite, there
is no contrariety, unless the sensitive appetite so far prevailed as
to change or at least keep back the rational appetite; for in this
case something of the contrary movement of the sensitive appetite
would reach the rational will.

And hence it must be said that although the natural and the sensitive
will in Christ wished what the Divine will did not wish, yet there
was no contrariety of wills in Him. First, because neither the
natural will nor the will of sensuality rejected the reason for which
the Divine will and the will of the human reason in Christ wished the
passion. For the absolute will of Christ wished the salvation of the
human race, although it did not pertain to it to will this for the
sake of something further; but the movement of sensuality could
nowise extend so far. Secondly, because neither the Divine will nor
the will of reason in Christ was impeded or retarded by the natural
will or the appetite of sensuality. Wiseli ran happily away. So
it was not at the Waschtrog sure it was the whole week going to school.
How was it beautiful all around! Of all the trees whistled the birds,
and smelled the grass and the sun glowed red and yellow daisy
flowers butter. Wiseli could not stop, there was no time to do so.
But it felt, how beautiful the landscape was full of joy, and ran
through the middle. On the same evening, just as all children
from the school room muffled in the evening sun slip beyond stürmen
wanted, said the teachers in the fracas into it: "Who has this week
order service "" The Otto, Otto!

" cried the whole crowd and stormed away. "Otto," said the teacher
in a serious tone, "yesterday is not been cleaned up. Once I will
forgive you. But let me not see twice, otherwise I would have
to punish you.

Otto looked a moment to all the nutshell, and scraps of paper and
Apfelschnitze on the ground and herumlagen aufgelesen should be.
Then he hastily turned his head and ran away also, because the
teacher had already gone through his door.

Otto stood outside on the sunny square, looked into the golden evening
out and thought: Now I could go home, and then I got the cap full of
cherries. And then I could go on the brown riding out into the field
when the hay gets bondage, and now I will be there on the floor paper
scraps read together? And Otto by his thoughts were so excited
that he is very fierce against himself, said: "I wanted, it would
just now the last day, and the schoolhouse and everything flöge
into a thousand pieces in the air." It remained around still and
quiet, and everything from the earthquake were terminated because
no symptoms. Since Otto is finally returned back to the school,
with the angry face, because he knew, in
the sour apple now had to be bitten.

Or tomorrow followed by the humiliating punishment After the sitting.

He took a first step, but when he
is puzzled. was completely cleaned up the school room before him,
no and no Fetzchen mote nowhere to be seen.

The windows were open, and the evening air poured into the office to
clean it.

In The moment the teacher came out of his room and looked surprised
at himself and at Otto, who stood there with big eyes.

Then he went to the boy, encouraging, and said: "You can really
work your anstaunen, which had I not believed.

You 're a good student, but the cleanup has exceeded all of you
today, what else to you was not the case.

"Thus, the teacher continued, and when Otto
with a last glance was convinced that he is the reality in front
of saw he jumped for joy in two sets down the stairs and through
the space.

He stormed the mountain slope, and only when given to the mother
informed the wonderful event, he began to consider how it could
have taken place.

Hence the operations of the Divine and human
natures in Christ are the same.

Obj. 3: Further, since in Christ there are two natures in one
hypostasis or person, whatever pertains to the hypostasis or person
is one and the same. But operation pertains to the hypostasis or
person, for it is only a subsisting suppositum that operates; hence,
according to the Philosopher (Metaph. i, 1), acts belong to
singulars. Hence in Christ there is only one operation of the Godhead
and the Manhood.

Obj. 4: Further, as being belongs to a subsisting hypostasis, so also
does operation. But on account of the unity of hypostasis there is
only one operation of the Godhead and the (Q. 17, A. 2). Hence, on
account of the same unity, there is one operation in Christ.

Obj. [5]: Further, [where there is one thing] operated there is one
operation. But the same thing was operated by the Godhead and the
Manhood, as the healing of the lepers or the raising of the dead.
Hence it seems that in Christ there is but one operation of the
Godhead and the Manhood.

_On the contrary,_ Ambrose says (De Fide ii, 8): "How can the same
operation spring from different powers? Cannot the lesser operate as
the greater? And can there be one operation where there are different
substances?"

_I answer that,_ As was said above (Q. 18, A. 1), the aforesaid
heretics who placed one will in Christ placed one operation in
Christ. Now in order better to understand their erroneous opinion, we
must bear in mind that wherever there are several mutually ordained
agents, the inferior is moved by the superior, as in man the body is
moved by the soul and the lower powers by the reason. "Would you not
sick, I immediately sent off the stupid person. Every minute must
be angry. But how can I now change. Then everything would surely die."
Tantchen just waiting until I'm getting better, can do long so
no more time, "Therese comforted."'s time, "sighed Mrs. Caroline.
"Alone, I think it is no longer enough. I'm all over the body,
such as broken. If it continues, I am also still out." That just does
not sound very aufheiternd for Therese. But if they just unfortunate
for such action songs in the store, according to laugh, or in the
kitchen with plates ungentle umherstoßen heard she was on the
nerves and tendons aunt calmed. XXIII. On the serious content of
his letter to Mrs. Behn broke the old and now its spa traveled back.
Lulu stayed in her room, when the father arrived. The welcome was
almost wordlessly. There was not much to tell, the woman had in her
letter, with sufficient detail reported. Lange had the old man at
the window and stood silently on the road hinausgestarrt, the
unmistakable signs of deep emotion for him when he, without turn,
asked "Where is de Deern?" "In ore Stuve, John." Ik wants se nich sehn,
"he exclaimed. "Not before Ogen." How deep does the history of
devoured him, it was almost more social than the moral side, which he
could not come across. Beuthiens He had never despised, but it has
always been his pride, the former school mates to have surpassed,
he, Umhertreiber and Thunichtgut by then, the industrious, regular
model pupil. How many times was Heinrich Beuthien him by the teachers
as an example has been, how often it had told. This is again an
efficient man, but from you is never what law. It was something right
out of it has become, through Thatkraft and prudence, while Beuthien,
the good, decent man, not more, than to the small Droschkenkutscher
had .

So they were beginning to come apart. Each avoided the other,
embarrassed by the disparity in living positions. Now had something
happen between their families. Wilhelm had his duty to meet Lulu,
because there was no way out. The old man was immediately clear
what he had to thun. But it was his hard, terribly hard. He had
Lulu for another desired, such as coachmen, this darling of the
maids. Had he so skillfully into the pension? If the lad is now refusing
would atone for his crimes, which then? Impossible, he could sue, the
matter before the court. But so far, it would not come, the old
Beuthien was a man of honor and his son would have to talk about
conscience. Twice had Behn on the path to Beuthiens and was reversed.
But it had to be, and he went for the third time the throat as he was
zugeschnürt, the heart beat him in this way, such as a terrible
single school boys. And he had it in the road rage and everything
hinunterstürmen short and small beat, as it certainly would have done
if he received the first message on the spot would have been.
Beuthiens As he hinaufstieg apartment, located in the single storey
outbuilding on the car was, he saw through the halbgeöffnete
Stallthür, Wilhelm employs the Horses dishes to clean.

The sight of the sinner awakened its wrath. Preferably it would just
fallen on him, but he beat himself and climbed the narrow steps off
the narrow steep stairs. The black cat, the bottom sunned had
fled before him to be scared. Heftig he ran up the door to protect
against the rattling chain. Aunt Tille, in old-fashioned white bonnet,
the only night of the test, a sandwich in hand, opened to him. "My
goodness, Mr. Behn!" she exclaimed surprised. "Ik meen, Se sünd
continue?" He asked for Beuthien. "Kamen S 'man rin, Heinrich
vespert grad," she invited him. Beuthien The old sat on the small,
worn Roßhaarsofa before with a dark oilcloth-covered table, and let
it seems to taste good. There was a small, low rooms, simply
furnished but friendly, in the Behn occurred.

Everything was clean. The großgeblümten with selbstgehäkelten enclosed
Kattungardinen peaks and the low, brown stove gave the room something
very cozy. The freshly scrubbed floor showed the utmost cleanliness.
Also, the two cheap Oeldruckbilder Kaiser Wilhelm II and Emperor
Frederick, in a black frame on each side of the narrow sofa
golden mirror, have blended very well the environment. Only this mirror
with gilding and abgeblätterten the great split in the lower
left corner of the glass, something bothered wohlthuenden the
impression of the whole. Behn reckte and stretched himself upon
entry, as he wanted to erect an impressive appearance. Beuthien Amazed
received him. "Behn?" he asked stretched considerably. "wi sin UNNER
us Beuthien?" asked this back. "Ja, wat is?" He stood up, listened
to the corridor and closed the door again.

"Wat is, Behn?" In short, fierce, Behn his indictment was
issued. Beuthien was rigid. "Din Lulu? "For a moment the two sat
silent against men. Beuthien stood up." He came Sall, gliek. "Behn
held him back." Wulle You still wat? " Beuthien asked. "Ne, ne, he
Sall you were." As the two Wilhelm Altendorf zusammensah, he knew
immediately what his waiting. But he was no coward. He was greeted
at ease and soon the one to the other soon. "Sedge em dat sülfst,"
said his father. "He wanted all weett't" quivered Behn, Wilhelm's
angry about peace. "Wat denn? " pertly asked this, but he already
began to be uncomfortable. "You dog!" Behn went to work with concentrated
fists. Wilhelm did not return. "Ik lat nich mi Schimper," he threatened.
The old Beuthien put his hand on Behn arm, such as appeasement, but
they hurled violently back. "You bust so 'n very nasty rags, "he cried
Wilhelm, who was white."

John, John ", threw the old Beuthien between the two." Hest Woans You
KREG Din Fru? "" Dat is wat anners, "gasped Behn." Ne , John, dat
is een Sak, "said Beuthien quiet. "You married Hest se, se un Wilhelm
was ok to marry." Wilhelm said, he knew quite what would be, but he
could not do his duty thun. "Wat?" Behn said. "Ik can not," repeated
William. "You can not?" "Ne, ik can not." "Is not god Tu se nog
longer?" Behn mocked bitterly. Wilhelm long hesitated with the answer.
"Ik häw all 's child", he finally showed. XXIVth Wilhelm had gebeichtet.
Anna, the former Behnsche girl who was the mother of his child. Behn
had over these rights to their older Wilhelm abzukaufen. He found the
girl in a cellar at Hökersleuten quartered, in a close, hushed room.
In a large laundry basket was the only fourteen-day-old child,
ugly, small, a premature birth.

Anna ashamed before their former master, was, however, when she heard
what it was a bold stance. Lulu, the haughty, treat her misfortune.
They still wore their mistreatment after. You should be soft, to
cede their rights? Never! But finally succeeded Behn but, with a
handsome sum to satisfy. The consideration for the sick child she
liked to have determined, without the most careful nursing could
not flourish. But it died, so it was the thousands of Mark Behn
still prefer, as a self Beuthien. What an asset, a thousand marks!
Behn, she had her cash on the table, counted, ten hundred Mark
notes. Ausgesteuert How could they, in their opinion, all other Free
get as William was. He was glad that everything is so well arranged.
Should he be married, so he was obviously Lulu rather than Anna.

Lulu told by her mother, Beuthien that they will marry. "Vadder
hätt sik vel Möh type," continued the simple woman added.
"Dusend Mark hätt em dat kost 't. You can not grateful em nog sin.
"" For money? " cried Lulu. "Ne, nich so. You versteihst mi wrong
child, the mother calmed her. And then she said, according to their
opinion very carefully, the story of Anna. Lulu had not responded
and was very thoughtful become. So Anna would have to thank for it
if they keep disgrace remained. And of course the girl knew everything,
felt gloating, as they saw their peers on. But all these thoughts
came to her side only. Everything crushed the certainty that they
deceived Beuthien it already with the other had, when he tore into
the accident. Who told her that Anna was the only one?

And with this person should have time in their lives connected. Their
shivered. Their tendency to Beuthien was in the agonies of the last
few days down. Now she felt disgust in front of him. All of his errors,
his crudity suddenly rushed into their consciousness. These uneducated,
brutal people they had lost. It came as Tainted before. It was
from her room into the kitchen of the neighboring houses look.
They cook with the thick red arms, with just the busy glaring at
the window sill to the mortar handled, as they often liked to have
his arms.

And up there, on the third floor, the little cheeky looking person,
and since the bottom floor in the long red, he has not perhaps already
with all its tenderness considered? It was her, as would all over her,
in her window into it, sneering, familiar: we belong together, lady.
Surely it was now over from their shame. Anna silent dignity,
Anna, who still had their old hatred?

What idea of the Father, by that person to buy freely.

Was not that the only right thing to people?

Beuthien but liked the girl to marry. You, Lulu, would prefer to
leave the house, far away, work for themselves, for the child,
or die. It was the first time that the thought of her death came.
It was after him, it is painted the horrors of the family, the
remorse Beuthiens, the sympathy of neighbors. Of course, so
long will you beklatscht, begeifert, stoned, but afterwards, you
no longer can bear, then they cry Heuchelthränen.

How disgusting it the people were . No, not live longer. A leap into
the Alster, and everything is good. The head was it so difficult,
and her eyes hurt from crying.

They cooled at Waschtisch eyes and forehead. The flashing of the
water they had always thought the Alster. A jump into the Alster. She
had caught a fish up to see drowned. The image came to her eyes.
They shook themselves horror and breathed like to exempted.

Who forced them then? She was so free. When the mother as she
was tired and miserable, she talked to her, but something in the
air to go. You must move, even the child's sake. Fended from Lulu.
Then they should at least go in the evening, after nightfall.

She wanted to accompany them, said the mother. Yes, in the evening,
not now. But alone, they would most like to own, Lulu nodded. "Is quite
Deern min, dat di Deiters god," said the mother. XXV. Nowhere was the
"nice story with Behn" avid discussed than in Wittfothschen Keller.
It was here "to the next." Caroline was totally on the views of
morality. They condemned and censured Lulu Wilhelm, just as it
has for a decent woman behooves, and would certainly not good at
both hair down, if not the prospect of Behn used to be their
moral indignation would have eased somewhat. She had always Making
of Lulu on the Armpit prestigious feel. Now they moved towards even
those in the rank of a mother to. Beuthien woman and senior woman
Beuthien junior would read it now. My daughter Lulu. Wittfoth The
"laughed the heart" with this idea. Perhaps they even called Lulu Mama.
"It is a terribly reckless thing to Lulu," she said to Therese. "And
William is just. But now it is man 's lucky that everything runs so
well." Therese took little part in this affair. Their increasingly
dwindling forces had to be sparing. Your thoughts entirely spent
elsewhere than in this small world things. For some days she knew
that she would die. She had the dream in the coffin is seen and
repeatedly looked at the ceiling mice. This meant the near-death.
Therese would not otherwise apply for superstitious.

Place cards, and other Indian Discuss nonsense laughed and mocked her.
But everything connected with death, it had always been reverently
Schauder abgenötigt. So far extended their education not. That the
death of distant people is often announced by dropping images, Still
standing watches, mysterious call, was it by more than one incident
for evidence. The aunt, who told her dream, had only a very
shocked face and then, according laughed and eagerly the "nonsense"
out of search. As if Aunt Caroline does not just stiff and firmly
believed like omen. Hermann had to Scheubeck Therese, of which to
speak. But again, talk as they made insinuations. "Nonsense," he
said, much like the aunt. Then he took her hand, stroked her gently
and said, states: "You will yet again fixed and healthy, Resi."
When she shook her head in disbelief, he repeatedly said "nonsense,
nonsense," stood up and looked out the window long.

That told her enough. But they remained calm and serene. It would have
a few weeks ago not even believed that the death they so quiet expect.
No Zagen, no Graun. Only on the last evening, when Hermann fortging
and only two days to be able to come back said it was at once became
so anxious, so for Aufschrein angst. It was her, as she would never
see again, as it would use force to hold back. Mrs. Caroline, who
is also from the doctor at Hermanns desire, not all hope had been
believed, Therese, the "crisis" is over. She said much
of this crisis without a clear idea of it.

Maybe it would be the more serious the illness came to
consciousness, if not their personal matters they do so much had
taken.

The business duties were thatsächlich almost solely on their
shoulders, as Miss Frieda continued useless showed. This was the
idea of marriage. Beuthien had pushed to early marriage, and we had all
sorts of preparations. Now Therese disease and pushed the "tiresome"
story with William and Lulu everything again. Behnsche The story
interested them immensely. The girls who came in their shop, spoke
of it and sought more information.

It was indeed as close as relatives of the sinner in the middle of the
action, and ever since she was never happier
than when they are somewhere with this belonged.

"As the mother of the future turned into disaster, saved them all
Ausfragern course towards the necessary restraint, and helped by
its mysterious nature even more, a thick veil adventurous spicy
rumors of this incident to weave.

As she was shocked as a mother Behn early morning, at six clock,
with the fearful question to her appearance whether she had not
seen Lulu.

"Se is utgahn register evening and is nich Wedde an't Hus came." "My
goodness, Mrs. Behn," cried the Wittfoth "She has nothing happened?"
The vegetable woman from next door came. "Se Hebben all Hürter?
Behne ehr Frankfurt Lulu is." A maid from the Gärtnerstraße wanted
"just one moment auf'n times to see". "Nu is se ja woll utrückt," she
said. "Wat'n Upstand." Even the old Beuthien was very distraught.
"Line, line, wat'n pieces - wat'n piece."

In the back room Therese ringing, but nobody heard them. Fräulein Frieda
stood with open mouth and above excitation glowing cheeks always
beside the Wittfoth. "If they only angethan has nothing," she said.
"Oh, what they probably should," Ms Caroline drove them on.

"Have you ever lined the apron? You know, they should be but until
a clock to be ready." That shook them vigorously from small burdock
itself. Beuthien lunch came again. "Se se hebbt". finster he
said. "Dod?" asked the Wittfoth. Beuthien there with your thumb on
the right shoulder across the direction: "In'n channel." "Lord
of my life!" cried the terrified woman. "Then I must put myself
first.

That's me in the legs properly driven." Pervasive A loud bell sounded
from behind her. "My God, Therese. The eternal ring. But it
is also even doll. What they probably nu has once again.
"Thus they have adhered to the corridor, but in Vorübereilen put
his head through the door of the study:" Are you ready, Frieda? No?
Well keep it on and it's not too wide, you hear? "XXVI. The old Behn
Comptoirzimmer sat in front of his desk, elbows aufgestützt, the
face with his hands to cover.

Already some time so he sat there. It was a humid air in the
small space. The sun was shining full into the window, and broke a lot
of radiation in the crystal-colored surfaces of the drum and the
ink Briefbeschwerers.

The Gesumme a fly, as in the blind rage repeatedly against the window
panes flew, was the only noise in the oppressive silence. Outside,
in the corridor, steps were taken according , muted voices, a sound
as if a heavy object transported. Now something has been set down hard.
Then it was like a slight scratches and Schurr. After a short
break the back steps, the whispering speaking, the blades of
Korridorthür, and again the dull silence. Behn sat still in their
original position, like sleeping. As the door was quietly opened
and the voice of halblaute Mrs. Behn cried after him. With almost
whistling sound rang a deep breath from the chest of the man, but
he moved to not. They came to him and laid him softly on the
arm's shoulder. "John!" Then he dropped his arms, fell hard on the
forehead crossed fists, and the big strong man sobbed like a child.

"John, wat helpt dat? " she said quietly. He stood up, without them
to be, as he is ashamed of his Thränen. He reached out for the broad,
tintenbefleckten ruler and put it at another place, ordered all
sorts of mechanically on the desk, the ink wiper, the sand rifle,
touched on be around as he search for something in his breast pocket,
and followed finally breathe deeply of the patient woman. "Ne, John
here," she conducted her husband, the injustice in the room wanted to
happen. Paula, obtained from the school had kept at home ,
erhaschte, as the parents entered the best office, with some glimpse
of the coffin in which one Lulu has just bedded. You stooped
to the keyhole down afterwards, but saw nothing but the broad back
of his father. Their thoughts were in great excitation. Lulu
tot it seemed inconceivable. It was the first time that the death
occurred so close to Paula. The pain of the parents also had a
child earlier Thränen pressing.

His eyes were still red from crying and hot, dry, stinging eyelids
in the heat. Now, after the first outbreak of feeling, came the curiosity
to her right. Paula would even like the sister in the coffin, but
the mother wanted to not suffer. If the father is but just wanted to
stir, she thought, lurking at the keyhole. As you only for so long
in one spot could stand. Whether wreaths probably many would come?
You always saw the whole idea of a funeral ceremony in front of
him.

In between came the thought of her birthday, which was on next Sunday.
Whether it would probably celebrate? You had in the last week and Clara
Wiencke Emmi Hopf invited. Clara would give her a paper, which
they already knew. How ugly, now if nothing out of the birthday would
be. Suddenly it went from keyhole back.

The door was hastily set off, and the father, pale, trembling, came
quickly. "Waterfall, agile, Water," he groans. Minna crashed out of
the kitchen and met with Paula ungentle together. But the old Behn
was already in the kitchen before the girl realized what he wanted.
The forehead against the wall supported, he fought with a suffocating
choking, short breaks in the seizure of the back of your hand
with the cold sweat from forehead and cheeks wiping. So it was
the postman, the in the general excitement unnoticed by the careless
closed door in the apartment was reached.

Behn stretched without aufzusehen, the left arm after the letter. "Mi
is not god," he said as apologetically. "woll air power, Mr. Behn,
"said the postman. "So gewitterig today." Mrs. Behn was added
and her husband took the letter from. "Di Is beter, John?" She held
the envelope against the day to explore its
contents.

"From Schulze," she said.

"Is woll Reknung för en dat Klaveerstimmen."

The letter carrier, even without knowledge of the accident, which
affected the family had only learned of them on the street by a
girl of a neighboring house.
And some are
predicated, or may be predicated, of Him because of the Father's
relation to Him, e.g. that the Father adopted Him and that He
predestined Him.

Hence we must consider (1) Christ's subjection to the Father; (2) His
prayer; (3) His priesthood; (4) Adoption--whether it is becoming to
Him; (5) His predestination.

Under the first head there are two points of inquiry:

(1) Whether Christ is subject to the Father?

(2) Whether He is subject to Himself?
_______________________

FIRST ARTICLE [III, Q. 20, Art. 1]

Whether We May Say That Christ Is Subject to the Father?

Objection 1: It would seem that we may not say that Christ was
subject to the Father. For everything subject to the Father is a
creature, since, as is said in _De Eccles. Dogm._ iv, "in the Trinity
there is no dependence or subjection." But we cannot say simply that
Christ is a creature, as was stated above (Q. 16, A. 8). Therefore we
cannot say simply that Christ is subject to God the Father.

Obj. 2: Further, a thing is said to be subject to God when it is
subservient to His dominion. But we cannot attribute subservience to
the human nature of Christ; for Damascene says (De Fide Orth. iii,
21): "We must bear in mind that we may not call it" (i.e. (From the
Bremer Sonntagsblatt.) Bremen. Printing and Publishing by
Heinrich Strack. 1856 the Germans around the water side of the city
of London in Westminster to consider one of the many steam boats
climbs, which immediately know the cabs in the streets of our
cities the traffic Themsefluß may in addition to the huge bridges,
the domes, through smoke and fog towering, the endless noisy
Waarenlagern, a little above the last bridge, which its colossal
arch spans over the river, shortly before he returned to the country
is increasing, particularly abgetheilter Quay with extensive packing
houses fall into the eye, its architecture, its green shutters and
there rare jewelry, some green trees, involuntarily at similar
places in German Seestädten remember.

It's That in the middle of the third London stain on what was once
from immemorial times since our country and the people they lived until
a few years ago, have possessed. It is the old factory and the
stack space of the German Hanseatic merchants, known under the name
of the Stahlhof, in English _Steelyard_.

The reason why the Germans in front of all other nations of Europe to
befall the benefit is in the exclusive England centuries land
to possess, can not with certainty, if they are not in a similar
geographical characteristics of the northern and southern Germany
England and in the unvertilgbaren ordinary people find their relatives
will. The fishing and Saxony, on the rugged North Sea moved to
Britain to conquer, opened the first dispute of trade between the two
countries.

He will be particularly strong aufgeblüht after the descendants of
the Great Aelfreds in memory of the common origin with the German
Ottonen verschwägerten. Relatives of the royal houses of
northern Germany with the English is so up to this day, the
white horse that has been Hengist and Horsa in the lead shield,
found up to now in the arms of Brunswick-Lüneburg, which is the
Seerappe after which the Saxons once poetically their designated
hochgeschnäbelten vessels. Close family ties to the princes and
common origin of the two peoples have the peculiar evolution, which
made its international traffic has encouraged. You must allow me, the
key moments from the same history of Stahlhof emphasized. Long
before even the German cities to the world of the Hanseatic league
meeting, and before the reason for their Handelsfaktoreien far
in Russia, Scandinavia, Flanders and Portugal, to Novgorod,
Visby, Bergen, Antwerp and Lisbon was made, there must be a corporation
German merchants on the Thames has been given. A certificate of
Saxony King Aethelreds II, 978 to 1016 was, secures the people from
the lands of the emperor, who with their ships to England drive the
same trading rights as they possess the locals what they are for
Christmas and Easter each two gray piece and a piece of brown
cloth, ten pounds of pepper, five pairs of glove man and two kegs
of vinegar as a levy to pay. The fact that no money is required,
looks much like the traditional power of a guild, whose members
also assumed that they also overwinter in England. Then we hear again
in the second half of the 12th Century, as the first Henry
II Plantagenet, the people of Cologne, in addition to their London
home, and possessed all Waar is located in its special protection,
and takes them to their Rhine wine, which she was already in London
to launch the same Price to sell, which you then the French wine
ausbot. Later than Richard the Lionheart from captivity of the Emperor
Henry VI. was dismissed and happy like a wild bird to the cage
to escape, ran into the Heimath, he rested one day in Cologne, the
Dome was a high celebration and thanked the citizens for giving
him the receipt, by giving them the annual pension of two English
shillings, which they consider their Gildhalle in London had to pay
to always adopted.

So the people of the emperor, especially the people of Cologne, where
a house in London was one which, like today, the town house of the
City daselbst the name of a altsächsischen contributed Gildhalle.
But it does not last long, they are still members of other German
cities on the banks of the Thames recognizable soon was the Hanseatic
League in the making.
And then all things will be
fully subject to Him by the final accomplishment of His will
concerning them; although even now all things are subject to Him as
regards His power, according to Matt. 28:18: "All power is given to
Me in heaven and in earth."
_______________________

SECOND ARTICLE [III, Q. 20, Art. 2]

Whether Christ Is Subject to Himself?

Objection 1: It would seem that Christ is not subject to Himself. 
Initially, his grandmother, with outstretched arm and behind her - he
thought to dream - his mother. With tear eyes, trembling and verschüchtert,
he was hot even in the midst of this outbreak exuberant
feelings, undecided what he do what he should say, and even unclear
what he felt: fear or happiness. The last dream that was to happen:
One here it had long been sought and expected. His mother, despite
her anger frightened by the raging Wegstürzen the excited child,
had him on the Semmering examined.

Already, everything was in terrible excitement and full of dangerous
assumptions, as a gentleman brought the message that he had the child
against three clock seen on the train. There it was quickly
noted that a map of Edgar to Baden had taken, and she went, without
hesitation, immediately after him.

Telegrams from Baden and Vienna to his father ran it forward, excitement
spread, and since two hours, everything was in motion after the
fugitives. Now they had him firmly but without violence. In a triumph
of the oppressed, he was led into the room, but how strange it
was that he had all the harsh accusations, which he said did not
feel it in their eyes, but the joy and love saw.

And even this sham, feigned anger that lasted only a moment. Then
again embraced him with tears, the grandmother, no one spoke more
of his guilt, and he felt by a wonderful caring surrounded.

As he pulled the girl from the rock and brought him a warmer, because
the grandmother asked him if he was not hungry or wanted
something, she asked, and tormented him with tender concern, and
how they saw their bias, they asked no more . voluptuous felt he
disobeyed, and yet it lacked feeling again, just to be a child,
and shame on him infested arrogance of the last few days, all wanting
to spare, it einzutauschen deceptive desire for its own loneliness.

Next door, the phone rang. He heard the voice of his mother, heard some
words: "Edgar ... back ... come ... last train ", and wondered that
she had not approached wild only covers so curiously restrained view.
Always wild, the remorse in him, and he would love to here all
the care of his grandmother and his aunt entwunden and would be
entered, they ask for forgiveness, its all in humility, quite
alone, to say he wanted his child back and obey.

But now as he quietly stood up, said the grandmother quietly
horrified: 'Where do you want? "Then he was ashamed. They had
been afraid for him when he stirred. He had them all scared, and now
she feared he would escape again. How would they can understand
that no one regretted this flight than himself! The table was covered,
and they took him with a hurried dinner. The grandmother sat with him
and turned no view. You and the aunt and the girl joined him
in a silent circle, and he felt heat from this wonderfully
calming. Only that his mother came into the room, made him confused.
If they would have guessed how humble he was, they would certainly
come!
Yet it must be borne in mind that since this name "Christ" is the
name of a Person, even as the name "Son," those things can be
predicated essentially and absolutely of Christ which belong to Him
by reason of the Person, Which is eternal; and especially those
relations which seem more properly to pertain to the Person or the
hypostasis. But whatever pertains to Him in His human nature is
rather to be attributed to Him with a qualification; so that we say
that Christ is simply greatest, Lord, Ruler, whereas to be subject or
servant or less is to be attributed to Him with the qualification, in
His human nature.

A flawed game, she thought. "I am concerned, let us stay at home,"
Therese said sincerely. "Mir ist's also" agreed Mimi, and the game
really threatened in the last minute to the water, as the Wittfoth
the rash existed.

"What?" she scolded. "These are young people, and fear of snow? March
continued with you!" "It is not so vain, Miss," they turned directly
to Mimi. "They are still pretty long enough. If the rights, he sees
not only dress up."

"I do well," Hermann reiterated zealously. "If the rose adorns itself,
it also adorns the garden." "Now it's time," cried the Wittfoth, "if
only Schillerstraße talking." Rückert, dear aunt, "taught Hermann.
The dear aunt überhörte this information and turned to Therese: "The
fact that you're dressed warm me, baby. You know, you're like a cold.
And that your trip to me tonight, you hear Hermann?

The evening air is so dangerous." Mimi, the cantankerous the dressing
was removed , came back transformed. She laughed over the whole
face. They wore a plain gray dress, followed by a short black plush
jacket, a black, longhaired Müffchen and a dark brown Pelzbarett
coquettishly, her allerliebst stood.

A look in the mirror, she had quickly comforted the blue dress, and
very happy she found herself back in the other one.

She was the weather
maker.

Their mood has always been crucial, they had something exciting,
dominant in their sector.

Hermann was happy about this fast handling of their mood and noticed
with pleasure their good looks.

Therese rejoiced when others are happy, and so we took a good mood
by the aunt farewell.

IV Wittfoth had a cup of strong coffee prepares their favorite
drink, although for the full-blooded, nervous woman was pure poison,
which they But with true passion zusprach.

If Mrs Caroline of "a cup of coffee" said,
it was only the simpler expression of a stuffed Kannenmaß.

Today, in celebration of the feast, she had even for a cup on the
ordinary level care is good or cream instead of milk with her usual
gegönnt and beside the sugar bowl filled a homemade cake made.

For years, all the festivities came to such a cake , a large, flat
cake plate with sugar and Mandelaufguß on the table.

Who this pastry is not enough to pay tribute knew it had with the
young woman ruined. Your Plate cake was her pride. Cozy in the deep
armchair almost sinking, was the feast Wittfoth their superb coffee
taste. She put her sewing in the corner of the sofa and took himself
to the rest of the afternoon with a comfortable non-tuna to spend.

They also wanted to have their holiday. You had to really worry
enough. "I wonder, though, that my coffee still tastes so good,"
she said often. In fact, she had little cause for complaints. The girls
took it all work. Even the food they needed not only to obtain. Yet
she was convinced that no one shall work with überbürdet how it was.
She was always in motion and usually unnecessary.

She was everywhere and nowhere, sometimes in the kitchen, soon in a
store or in the work room, where a pot or a pan, there a patch or
a string out of the way räumend to him elsewhere abzulagern, where
he often even more in the way was. All moments she sighed, "my
legs, my legs and restless brummkreiselte yet again on her short
legs on.

No wonder, when they in the evening "of all the work" was tired. Even
now, she had to, but she was alone with her habit of Sighs "My legs,
my legs" is established.

The fragrant potion suggested their spirits, it was the cake after
her superb taste advised, and a strange feeling overcome them. From
a Basement on their apartments situated penetrated subdued piano
playing to her: Two parts of the Danube waltz by Strauss and then
Ketterers popular salon pieces " Silver fish '. Schnute klimpert aunt
again, "said the Wittfoth in soliloquy. Schnute aunt was fourteen
years of" higher daughter "who because of their exceeding the normal
nose that name had settled. But the jingle of the lone Kaffeetrinkerin
was not unpleasant. The music they voted sentimental. The feeling of
complete one overcome them, the sensation of pity wohlthuende with
himself, the weather was unkind to continue.

The wind threw some rain showers and snow against the windows in the
same level with the pavement beaten. Wittfoth woman rejoiced however,
remained at home to be. The furnace shone so cozy warmth. Thank God
that they are not out there "rumzupatschen" needed. But the music from
the top resulted in their thoughts after the young people, in Konzerthaus.
She heard so much music. When her Seliger still alive, she often
visited the garden concerts in polluting cup, now horn Hardt at St.
Pauli, or in the "Zoology." That was long ago. Now, with the boys,
made it only half fun. They felt superfluous in their society.
But because she was not even old? Goods because thirty-five years
of age? Among the eighteen-year-old teenager, however, no longer
suited them. But to have all pleasures of life to renounce to the
old iron to be expected, it was still too early. Of course, a
single widow in her years must be already satisfied. One must be happy
if we only sit still maintains its reputation. The gossip never
escapes you. What was that but for a talk at that time was with the
pretty travelers by Rosinsky and Sons. Because they politely against
Mr.

Beller man was, of course, they should have marriage intentions. As if
it is not their duty would have been the beginning of their
Geschäftsthätigkeit dealing with customers and suppliers at the
best possible place to walk.

And how many followers had Mr Beller man had. Soon it was soon that,
to lure them, or after it should eject his hook. And always the people
were wicked enough, not from her person, but by her business
to talk. As if they are not still handsome enough. Now it
was Mr. Pohlenz, the city of travelers from Müller and Lenze, the
large button factory, the intentions they should have. Well, this
time the people were so right. A blind man had to see that Mr.
Pohlenz at the company Caroline Wittfoth speculated. But would
prefer it to the Alster, than those that they married Pohlenz. Even
before his wet, cold hands shivered her. Then the dear old Beuthien
who has ever had intimations. Although it took time for a joke and
took it even for that. But that he had the intention, rather than
the Droschkenkutscher
the Pomadenhengst with cadaver hands.

But what was it because, as she came just now to this marriage idea?

You had to laugh about themselves.

They filled for the third time the cup and pushed an oblong
piece of cake into his mouth, when the shop bell went. She heard
the heavy presence of male clientele they graced. It was the young
Beuthien, the Sunday dress stood before the Tonbank. He asked
for a new neck collar. "What number, Mr. Beuthien?" Yes, if he knew
he laughed.

His collar too tight it would become. "Dat kniept all bannig." She
put him several lengths, and he adapted it to clumsy. Since he could
not decide, she helped him and put himself a collar around his neck.
"De fit," it recommended.

When he had chosen, she had to help him again, the small recalcitrant
horn buttons through the buttonholes new stiff to press. His big clumsy
fingers were not sent them. She had trouble like this, and it took
a long time. His beard tickled rotblonder them on the hand.

He raised his chin higher, and they admired his strong brown throat.
When moving the tie, he went a bit too impetuous works, so that the
collar pulled up. "Dunne," he scolded. "Dat is Schietere Moer." Laying
besah he claims.

But there was nothing to change, and he understood himself to a new
briefs to ask. His anger stemmed embarrassed her. And since his tie
still as good as new was offered it, the damage with a few needle
stitches to repair. They coerced him into the room. Hesitantly, he
followed and took a somewhat round-about with Gebahren offered to
chair the place, while her sewing kit from the windowsill to the
basket looked together. A glance at the road showed her that the
ground floor opposite Lulu Behn back their habit after the window
rekelte. "Always as'n Blomenpott vor't Finster," she said and let
the Rouleaux down to those with an insight to obstruct. Beuthien
her remark seemed to have überhört.

The notion to sit down, the idea came to her to give him a cup of coffee.
"Why not," he took with gratitude. They gave him and pushed him to
the cake plate. It seemed to him to relish, and she was quick with
their work completed when he was with his coffee. She invited him for
taking the time to be asked about this and that and stanched their
curiosity . When he was talkative, and gave information to the
intention of his father came to speak, soon to retire, she said:
"Then marry Se woll gliek?" "Yes," replied he jokes. "Se min
Wülln Fru sin?" "As always föhrt wi in de tosamen fine coach," she
responded. "Un söß with," he laughed and pushed the cup emptied
itself. Schwer, he is due, and they noted only Now that he is a
little varied. He wiped his back with his left hand slowly over the
slightly low brown reckte the forehead and broad shoulders. When they
repaired to tie him back after he grabbed her hand and put his arm
around her waist. "Dat laten S 'unnerwegs" she called, break
loose. "So yes or further sünd wi woll not yet."

He tried once again behind the high chair is fleeing to erhaschen.
"Ungut for nothing, Madammchen" he laughed then, desist. "Must be
fun, says Berlin." "All's where heard," she said pikiert. "Well, not
because," he growled hurt and asked what he was guilty.

But they wanted to have no small effort. " Se föhrt mi ut
times, "she joked, again voted conciliatory." Well, then thank
you and happy festival.

"He gave her hand, and his strong pressure forced her from a soft Au.
When he was gone, she was like forget themselves in the middle of
the shop and still mechanically rubbed the spot where the red traces
his strong fingers had long since
warped.

Therese V. and Mimi had come home late, had the allegations of
laughter and aunt under a flatteries without being Veilchensträußchen
and Table Chocolade stifled, both donated by Hermann, and were
quickly into bed gehuscht.

When coffee early in the second kramten now feast their stories.

They had "heavenly" amused, like Mimi Insured. Hermann was "too nice"
was. You knew how happy the Wittfoth her nephew heard praise. After a
cup of coffee and a piece of cake at Homann, you had to walk the
road to Louis Konzerthaus back, since all the horses of the Railways
due to bad weather were overcrowded.

Even then it was only with difficulty to place a table in the middle
of the hall can catch. The unfriendly weather drove the Vergnügler
quickly from the road into the bars, and also the great hall of
the Etablissements Louis Chen was soon crowded. Froh gained the
seat, there is so susceptible to the excellent music of the
orchestra out. The program is offered with respect to the Sunday
audience mostly light-hearted way, which of course, a waltz is not
Straußischer missing Mimis panacea for any kind of resentment and
gloom.

As always attracted the pretty girl looks closer to the seated gentlemen
in itself. Even Mr. Pohlenz welcomed from afar. Hermann, not from
the field to be beaten, had doubled his kindness, and most
recently, before the conclusion of the concert, the girls at a small
dinner in a nearby restaurant invited, where we ate delicious and,
above all things was able to enjoy.

Maybe certain this last fact it very much. It was in any event, the
simplest and most noble kind, is to discard its competitors.

The Wittfoth had the cheerful reports of girls nothing to oppose.
My experience with the young Beuthien burned on her tongue. It tingles
them, but they knew not the right tone to find and did a great
satisfaction to erheucheln that they have a quiet, uninterrupted
afternoon quite in isolation would have been. Last but at least they
had so much tell that the young Beuthien get a new collar had
bought. "The beautiful Wilhelm?" Mimi said with a humorous satire. "Is
it really so beautiful?" Therese said, while the aunt, without
having to address this issue, eager abräumte the cups with more
clatter, as otherwise their nature was. Beuthien Mimi said for a
very handsome man for cooks, she added, and was implying that their
Claims were higher. Therese was a bit raw in his trains and on
the other hand, praised the honest, good-natured face of his father.
Mimi was the second festival have been released, their relatives in
the mountain village to visit. They did early on the way,
and niece and aunt were alone. Hermann came in the afternoon at a
quarter of an hour to ask how the ladies of the evening will be
yesterday. He was today because the weather had become friendly, so
nobly dressed as Mimi yesterday that it wanted. We saw and heard
him, as happy memories of him the last day. He brought three small
bouquets, each a rose surrounded by violets, presented, apparently
indiscriminately, the Theerose aunt, Therese, a white and determined
the remaining deep red for "Miss Kruse."

Even a book of which he had spoken to the girls, he delivered
from: Rückerts love spring. "Love and violets spring bouquets. Since
it is so neat to imagine what," said the Wittfoth. It was the
relationship between her nephew and the shop girls are not blind
to. It amused her. An innocent Kurmacherei which would not seriously.
None of this would break your heart, least of all the girls. Sometimes
the way she wanted to talk with Hermann. Therese was the book received
scrolls and mechanically it.

But according to the will of reason, Christ willed nothing but what
He knew God to will. Wherefore every absolute will of Christ, even
human, was fulfilled, because it was in conformity with God; and
consequently His every prayer was fulfilled. For in this respect also
is it that other men's prayers are fulfilled, in that their will is
in conformity with God, according to Rom. 8:27: "And He that
searcheth the hearts knoweth," that is, approves of, "what the Spirit
desireth," that is, what the Spirit makes the saints to desire:
"because He asketh for the saints according to God," that is, in
conformity with the Divine will.

Reply Obj. 1: This prayer for the passing of the chalice is variously
explained by the Saints. For Hilary (Super Matth. 31) says: "When He
asks that this may pass from Him, He does not pray that it may pass
by Him, but that others may share in that which passes on from Him to
them; So that the sense is: As I am partaking of the chalice of the
passion, so may others drink of it, with unfailing hope, with
unflinching anguish, without fear of death."

Or according to Jerome (on Matt. 26:39): "He says pointedly, 'This
chalice,' that is of the Jewish people, who cannot allege ignorance
as an excuse for putting Me to death, since they have the Law and the
Prophets, who foretold concerning Me."

Or, according to Dionysius of Alexandria (De Martyr. ad Origen 7):
"When He says 'Remove this chalice from Me,' He does not mean, 'Let
it not come to Me'; for if it come not, it cannot be removed. But, as
that which passes is neither untouched nor yet permanent, so the
Saviour beseeches, that a slightly pressing trial may be repulsed."

Lastly, Ambrose, Origen and Chrysostom say that He prayed thus "as
man," being reluctant to die according to His natural will.

Thus, therefore, whether we understand, according to Hilary, that He
thus prayed that other martyrs might be imitators of His Passion, or
that He prayed that the fear of drinking His chalice might not
trouble Him, or that death might not withhold Him, His prayer was
entirely fulfilled. But if we understand that He prayed that He might
not drink the chalice of His passion and death; or that He might not
drink it at the hands of the Jews; what He besought was not indeed
fulfilled, because His reason which formed the petition did not
desire its fulfilment, but for our instruction, it was His will to
make known to us His natural will, and the movement of His
sensuality, which was His as man.

After long thoughts and worries were anxious about not in their nature.
And how much bigger now, she had secrets to keep. Beuthien prepared
a titillating satisfaction youth girlfriend, the retirement Miss,
daughter of the noble house, to be down to draw.

But even their person did not let him cold.

Was he not in love, so it was but a welcome change, something different
and better than mine, and Stine. And in the background stood
him well for the idea, who knows how it comes. Recently, she was
always not a
bad game.

Of course, it was highly unlikely that the old Behn it ever would.

But he thought did not actually
connected to marriage, was not looking.

But Lulu was very passionate. With closed eyes she followed her passion
for the former playmate.

It was as if their usual nature for distort the aufgedrungene
Überfeinerung wanted revenge.

Lighter than the first rapprochement was the continuation of transport
between the two.

Lulu, unlimited in their tuna and Lassen, mistress of her time, the
lovers could meet, when and where he was certain.

Traf it on, and his cab was vacant, so she rose, and he drove them to
walk detours.

Extended the journey too long, so that he is about the time his
father accountable and deliver Fuhrlohn had so she could not safe
from their meager allowance calculated sacrifice.

To allow them, because he also needed in cases not using the money
withheld,
sometimes more exits, where they are between the aristocratic
seclusion parkumgebener villas, or on lonely country roads in rural
area have felt safe.

Lulu's quiet, slow nature came to her rescue with the task of all
suspicion at home to keep down.

She was not easily removed from their daily way to bring.

To equip it was the commandment of doctors, which often suffer from
headache, spoiled girl, in the years of its largest development far
too little body movement made, daily, perhaps several hours walking
was recommended. So because the parents put the gloss of the buoyant
eyes, the ever-faster mobility of an inner unrest troubled daughter
as wohlthätige effect on account of those walks, without knowing how
much she, albeit in the other sense, were right.

Schuldbewußt every reason to avoiding split, Lulu was also in their
behavior against the mother and Paula friendly, courteous, nachgiebiger.
Anna, since those thätlichen rebuke a hidden war against Lulu led
had suddenly been dismissed. "immoral ways of life change," said the
ladies of the neighborhood. "Se is rinfull ' n, "it was in the ladies
terminated. Behnsche The official explanation was, however. "She has
my daughter can not tolerate."

Minna, the successor, a minor girl from the countryside who came
to Lulu out of the question. Their authority from the side was
not an attack threaten. The main thing for them was the sister
to get well-minded. Paulas confidentiality with their old dancer
did not find acceptance, to the amusement Beuthiens that the girl
had a welcome means to Lulu in all, make it. "I tell Paula," he
threatened, and they were afraid.

Paula, whose entire costume there was only once again to be able
to dance, had finally taken the courage and unattended on a Sunday
evening like this is stolen without hat and jacket, to prepare for
the Holstein tree under the audience in the ballroom to mingle in
the hope Beuthien there to meet.

This was not where she found, but Bernhard Prüßnitz, with an older
brother, an apprentice saddler , was present. The detection was a
hasty greeting followed. "Ah, dancing times with me," asked Paula.
"cost anything?" "I have twenty cents, here." She put the money to
him, and then they pounced among the dancing, hearts with
knocks and hot cheeks. "You can not," she wanted to start him,
for he hopped like a young cock and pushed it against the knee.
But they bethought themselves. If it is allowed, who danced with
her? Better hop, as do not dance. Just wanted it for the second
time with his other, somebody violently as she tugged at the elbow.
"Paula, Deern, dat I Din Vadder sedge." It was Minna, on the search
for the missing of The unerring instinct of the soul gleichgestimmten
refugee immediately suspects had here. By Minna, on Paulas requests
and fearful threat log of what the larger, their superior
einschärfte her girls, there was now not in the day, but for some
incomprehensible and Paula never enlightened way Behn's father learned
of the secret of his amusement youngest, and two huge foot clamps
were the early recognition of its enterprising spirit.

Paula, angry at the unknown traitor, accused among twenty others Lulu
shamefulness of it "verklatscht" to have. This, of Paulas foot
clamps gave a foretaste of what their discovery in the case would
wait, stone and bone swore innocence to be pitied, the sister and found
the whole story is only half as bad, "but Dad is ja nu times so
violently . Behn mother wondered how well the children now vertrugen.
"Se was ok yes ümmer Oeller and verstänniger," she said. XIII.
Beuthien Lulu had one afternoon in a neuangelegten still houses
countless street into his cab up. It was an arranged rendezvous,
and Lulu's stock market just as well was filled, we wanted to stay
together a long time. As always, as long as they drove through lively
streets, where an unpleasant encounter was to be feared, Lulu sat
back deep in the rear of the sealed cab, veiled, and every view
of the road avoiding.

Continue until they ventured outside, the roof of the Coupees
back to leave. Beuthien had taken toward Horn. Drüber addition, on a
deserted Feldstraße rose from Lulu and went as they used to thun, with
him, hanging on his arm, next to the leisurely bummelnden Brown ago.
The road allowed a free overview. Seam someone who was still
time enough to separate and unbiased herzugehen side by side, or in
the cab zurückzuschlüpfen.

Beuthien knew the area in a remote inn, where one could
dare, einzukehren. Lulu was ready for anything. It was a beautiful
summer day . A warm, sunny air was not a nuisance to be on the green,
promising seeds. Lulu was very cheerful. The quiet, calm wohlthuende
rocked out here all their doubts. Beuthien was too tidy. He was
soon driving her arm and put his confidence to their hips. And
she, his coarse jokes and temporary tenderness fallen. A small
garden next to that pub, the poetic name of "For lonely spot" wore
contained two very shady arcades, but with its green wooden bars
and tables and benches grüngestrichenen something confidential ,
were welcoming.

The landlord, an ordinary-looking, mischievous grin patron brought
two glasses of beer there, once rode with his lazy blue dirty apron
on the table and looked bestaubten an entertainment tie on which
you received monosyllabic but so that he soon like this distance.

On the feral round grass square in front of their seats schnatterte
and schnabbelte a lonely duck.

A light, white and brown spotted dog blinked chicken with tired eyes
from the dripping, eyes of flies tormented from his hut across to
them. The beer was warm and stale, and taste them. The smell of
the nearby chicken stall was annoying them.

Lulu looked for another place. Behind the garden attracted a sparse
grove at the edge of a meadow out mostly dense, high mann undergrowth
from which only a few scattered birch trees standing with their young
gleaming white trunks pointed out. halbvermorschtes A board led through
a dry moat in the wood inside. After some hesitation, in deference
to her dress, followed by Lulu aufgeschürztem hem Beuthien in the
little wilderness. How often they were as children in this way
outdoors umhergestreift had sought berries, wreaths of foliage, chains
from the hollow stems of Kuhblume wound, or were with bare feet
in the cool, muddy water in the ditches and puddles gewatet.

Both came at the same time, the memory, and both said it. He
smoked its short meerschaum pipe with the Kaiser-Friedrich-head, and
the corrosive smoke went into her nose and it was uncomfortable. They
pushed in front of him. wanton grabbed it at the shoulders and
pushed them down so fast that they on the uneven ground was the
stumbling.

They screamed and tore itself off. He sought to Hascher. So she
jumped at a moment of laughter and Gekreisch to each other around.
"You Wulle times since," he cried, and grabbed her arm auslangend
far.

They wrestled with each other. His forces, with whom he had played so
far only, its use, he suddenly lifted up from the ground and took
it like a child in his arms. Zappelnd tried it again solid foothold.
But he forced her. "Wulle you calmly sin? Wulle you calmly sin!" he
repeated a few times. He talked about during this whole Balgerei just
flat. "Let me," she gasped. She had her arms against his chest
gestemmt.

But before his hot, consuming eyes stopped her. Your power will wane,
and willingly, heavy breathing, she let herself down by him to a
nearby bear Moosbank. XIV The old Beuthien went long with the idea
in order to withdraw from the business, it is his son to leave. He
had no right to want more. The years made him comfortable. But it
had to comfort him ever missing since his wife was dead, so since
about ten years, during which time an old aunt of the deceased, he
led the economy. Wilhelm was now in the age where he ans thought
marriages. Then he would, the father, between the old Negendank, which
is always dull, and the young daughter, which of course would require
the regiment, annoying days. After ten years, he began anew to his
wife missing.

When you get older, is the Verheiratetsein but not to scold. And
because the friends are still sprightly man often, partly in jest,
partly seriously, told me yet again beweiben, he had the idea made
familiar. Hurried him it was not so. He considered this and that lot,
it was proposed, but only the top, and even that is not quite glaubend
that once again something that could be. When he was but now
after losing his best horse, the black ice on the fallen brown,
completely the desire to lose business, but he was serious after such
future dreams. Of all the women who came in, liked it not as
good as Mrs Caroline Wittfoth. That would be a lot. The small
lively, still quite respectable widow told him very much.

His Blessed had just been so mercury. The good business of Wittfoth
was also a magnet. He made no secret of the fact. If it is the ten
thousand marks, which he referred to William severance nor could
have, stuck in this business, that would be money well spent.

And it would give him a good advocate for his advertisement. When
he senses long after the decision had been living there with his
wife Caroline to try, was the second question to him was
approached. As you start this? There was a lack of courage him
really, though he would have ridiculed any who dared to say. But
still it was so. Once he tried to "Your Well-Born" to write. He
came through the salutation "Dear" and the beginning of "Because I
am now in a situation," not out. The Negendank bothered him, but he
is out of fear of it in the enclosed feed chamber had. Aunt
Tille despite their deafness had heard of his marriage plans munkeln
hear and was the most determined opponents of such "madness".

So he hastily threw the fraction of letter in the feed box,
which he had used as a desk, and opened the knock ends.

"Dat togt so bannig," he screamed into her ear, as they are surprised
that he included.

Then a chance all the difficulties to an end. Tetje Jürgens, his
good friend, had a clever idea. Tetjes economy in the basement, the
zither club "Cyclamen" his club room. The foundation of this
association was fixed before, and nothing was easier than Tetje
invitation cards for Beuthien and Wittfoth to obtain. Like
every year, a common exit open breaks in the society of the
countryside, and because it would have its own approach, if in
such a period No opportunity for a closer would find.

Tetjes really proved a great idea.

Caroline was happily accepted the invitation, which in their normal
way of Tetjes woman has been transferred, such as a pair of socks
for her children's Youngest bought.

So what would be her long offered when it came time to the Greens,
said the flattered. Incidentally was they are happy now with good
reason from a lot of water after Buxtehude, to which she and Herman
had invited the girls, to resign. She had an insurmountable fear
of the water.

In four open, with Guirlande and colorful flags decorated the breaks
went amused Society Foundation on Sunday early morning at six clock
of Local Tetjes from men and women, mostly young people. The "active"
members had the boxes with their instruments prior to the knees
or below, they had pushed the seats. The festival program also
included a number of concert presentations. It went without saying
that few older people in society in a car drove along, and among them
again Beuthien as a single widower, and the lady of his inclination,
as the only widow, were merged. Ms Caroline had created their
best clothes, a light dress with black top sparkling Perlenfichu.

Their greatest pride was her new Sommerhut from its garnish of delicate
black lace, a posy of flowers Fantasy purple abhob effectively.
"Kieck where Stuhr se sik höllt, as'n cock", she had Tetje Jürgens
when embarking gehänselt. Beuthien also had with special care clothes.
His gray, somewhat bristly chin beard was cropped cleanly, and on the
white Piquéweste proud of the heavy gold watch chain, to which he
owned something einbildete.

The happiness was even before the departure was a general, and
it increased while driving under the influence the cheerful, sunny
weather, which promised a great feast. Singing and all sorts of
spices Neckereien the entertainment, and were already underway and
Ms Caroline Beuthien in jest than treated as a serious goal which
he at least now and then with frightening clarity in mind floated.

Now Christ prayed not only for others, but also for
Himself, as we have said above (Q. 21, A. 3), and as expressly stated
(Heb. 5:7): "In the days of His flesh, with a strong cry and tears He
offered [Vulg.: 'offering'] up prayers and supplications to Him that
was able to save Him from death." Therefore the priesthood of Christ
had an effect not only in others, but also in Himself.

Obj. 2: Further, in His passion Christ offered Himself as a
sacrifice. But by His passion He merited, not only for others, but
also for Himself, as stated above (Q. 19, AA. 3, 4). Therefore the
priesthood of Christ had an effect not only in others, but also in
Himself.

Obj. 3: Further, the priesthood of the Old Law was a figure of the
priesthood of Christ. But the priest of the Old Law offered sacrifice
not only for others, but also for himself: for it is written (Lev.
16:17) that "the high-priest goeth into the sanctuary to pray for
himself and his house, and for the whole congregation of Israel."
The only difference is that a good-natured woman for her husband has
no secret may still have.

It would place the bet, if my heart conceal what you could not
rest that you would still rest until your stealth my abgelockt
would have. "-" And I, "returned he," give you my word that I am
your secret will not worry about it is you enjoy the sample to make.
"Because that's where Ms. Mathilde hinhaben her husband wanted.
"Well," said she, "dear Lord, let me enjoy one of the godfather
to erkiesen that my child neugebornes lift from the baptism.

I have a girlfriend into the heart, which is unknown to you, because
now my desire is that you never want to penetrate me, to tell you who
she was, from whence it comes, nor where they hauset. When your with
me your knightly honor your commitment and verheißet sufficeth does,
I will have lost the bet and freely confess that the male spirit of
the feminine weakness triumphs. "Wackermann housewife made his
promise, and inevitably they enjoyed good success their clever
List intimate. [Illustration] Wackermann rode very wohlgemut to
its neighbors and Gefreunden them to Gevatterschaft load. They found
a total of the designated days, and since the woman the noise
of the cars, the neighing of horses and the turmoil of Hofgesindes
heard a familiar summoned them to prostitute themselves and said,
"Take this pebble creek, throw it behind you silently mermaids in the
wells and hurry them yourself, is what you ordered. "The prostitute
was under the command and before they came back again, took an
unknown lady in the society room, came modestly against the present
men and women, and how the child was presented and the Baptist came
to the pool, she took her place among the top sponsors.

Anyone made their respectful place as a stranger and she was the
first child in her arms through the baptism. All eyes were on them.
She was so nice, so decent and so beautifully dressed in a
flying robe of blue silk and water aufgeschlitzten sleeves, with white
background Atlas, that was about it with jewels and pearl jewelry so
plentiful curtain, as the Holy Virgin at Loretto in a church gala
days . A brilliant sapphire gave the transparent veil of thin clouds
from the vortex of the artificial hair slung along the shoulders
to the heels herabschwebte, but the tip of the veil was wet, as if
he pulled through the water. The unexpected appearance of the
strange lady had Mitgevatterschaft all the way into the prayer
disturbed that they forgot that the child to name, so christened it
the priest Mathilde, after the name of the mother. Once completed, the
small Taufhandlung Mathilde returned to the same, and all
sponsors followed, happiness and the desire to patch the washing
process Pfennigs. The mother appeared at the sight of the unknown bit
affected, probably from surprise that the word Nixe so
faithfully had .

They threw a stealthy glance at her husband, with a smile un-answered
and, moreover, the image was, as he will from strangers no
further note. The Godfather gift was now the recipient of other
employment, a golden rain poured from the generous hands Täufling
down. The unknown is approaching its last fiscal sponsor and deceived
the expectations of all Mitgevattern. They suspected from the flashy
rich lady or a gem Denkpfennig of great value, especially as it
is a silk handkerchief and such hervorzog Unhurried each other with
great beat, but Ms.

Pate had nothing Dreiner than one wound Bisamapfel turned from
wood, they solemnly presented this to the child's cradle, and kissed
her mother-friendly on the forehead and went out of the room.
[Illustration] About this pathetic gift was a clandestine whisper
among those present, the earliest in a mocking laughter erupted.
There is no lack of some malicious comments, but as the knight
and his lady a deep silence observed, and this remained
the researchers and chatterer nothing left inside, as in empty
conjecture to graze.

The unknown did not come to light again, and nobody knew to say
where she was hingeschwunden.

Wackermann was secretly but tormented by the desire to explore who
the stranger was his wish that one, because nobody knew her name,
the lady with the veil called wet; just shy, as a weakness of
MANNLICHER Knight pleaded guilty to making and the word of his
inalienable tied his tongue.

He thought her the secret of time yet abzulisten. But this time he
wandered in the bill, Mrs. Mathilde knew their tongue to appease and
preserved the indissoluble mystery so carefully in the heart, such
as the Bisamapfel in their treasure chest. [Illustration] Before the
lady entwuchs the gang, was the prophecy of the nymph to the good
Mother met, she fell ill and died suddenly, without time to say
goodbye to the Bisamapfel to do so or after disposal of the
mermaid to favor the small Mathilde to proceed. My husband was also
absent at the tournament and moved to Augsburg, with a knight
Thanks crowned by the Emperor Frederick, back home.

As the dwarf on his master tower in the distance saw anger come cuts,
he referred to the customary horn, the Hofgesinde its arrival known,
but he did not like any of joyous sound, resound, but even posaunte a
sad melody. The Knights drove to the heart and through his troubled
soul. "What a noise," said he, "gellt my ear? Listen to her's, her
squire, is not that Krähenruf and Totensang?

Kleinhänsel promulgated us no good. "And the miners were all shocked,
saddened saw their Lord and one of them took the floor and said,"
That is the way the bird's white chalk, God turn from misfortune;
's is a corpse in the house «Because Wackermann spurred his stallion
and rode through the Blach field, therefore, that the sparks flew.

The drawbridge fell, it looked greedily into the palace and saw the
dead body unfortunately signs issued prior to his doorstep, without
a lantern with a light waving Flor decorated, and all the shutters
closed.

Here he heard sobbing from inside and Lament of the Gesinde because
Mrs. Mathilde was just laying out. At the heads of the coffin sat
the two more daughters in Boy and Flor wrapped and beweinten the
erbleichte mother with countless tears. At the foot of the coffin
sat a small favorite daughter, nor inability to feel their loss,
they zerzupfte with equanimity childish games the remnants of the
flowers, which adorned the corpse was. This melancholic sight
overwhelmed Wackermann male endurance, he wept and wailed loudly,
crashed on the icy corpse ago, wetted the pale cheeks with
his tears, with quivering lips pressed to lips erstorbenen and
left without Scheubeck all painful feelings of his heart. Then he hung
his arms in the armory on, sat covered with a abgekrempten hat and
a black mourning coat when Sarge, contributed to his suffering
secluded housewife and proved it the last honor by a solemn
Totengepränge. [Illustration] Because, however, after the point
of a large acute pain, the man always the shortest, so forgot the
tiefgebeugte widower soon superseded his heartbreak and pointed to
the loss by a second wife, the very opposite picture of the religious,
Mathilde was modest.

The house therefore regiment took a different shape, the young
woman loved pomp and wastefulness, gebärdete be proud and imperious
against Gesinde; of feasting and Bankettierens was no end. The
little Mathilde came under the supervision of a nurse and was in a
remote bar, where she eiteln the woman, the family worries are not
looked like, far enough from the eye was.

Your wasteful expenditure multiplied so that the yield of the
Faust Piston and justice, as such unermüdet of the Knights fell, no
longer sufficed, to deny the same, it was often forced to leave their
shaft Vorweserin to plunder the rich to substances vermöbeln or
money to be borrowed.

Once they searched drawers and chests to get something of value
auszuwittern since they met at a secret compartment and found a
Putzschrankes is to their great joy wife Matilde treasure chest.

The glittering jewels Demantringe, ear clips, bracelets, and other
jewelery Schürzhaken delighted their greedy eyes. They mustered
everything carefully, besah's piece by piece and überschlug in their
thoughts, the benefits of this wonderful fund would bring. Among these
treasures were her wooden Bisamapfel in the eyes. They knew not mean
what they
should do with it, they tried it, aufzuschrauben him, but he was
verquollen.

She weighed it in his hand and found him so easily as a deaf nut,
so she said that it was any unmarried Ringfutteral, and because
they knew nothing to start, threw it's a thing without all the value
out of the window.

[Illustration] Coincidentally Mathilde sat the small garden at
the bottom of the kennel and played with her doll.

As the wooden ball on the sands daherrollen saw, she threw the doll out
of the hands and attacked with a childish craving for the new toy,
also had as much joy over this fund as theirs in the Mama. They
feasted many days with the gimmick and not let them get out of
hand. On a beautiful summer days lüstete the nurse, with her
foster-daughter of fresh cooling on the rock fountain to enjoy.

To Vesper time the child asked his honey bun, what the nurse had
forgotten to bring. She had not yet want to return, for now at the
Small to get good, she went to brush her a handful of raspberries
to pick. The child, however, played with the Bisamapfel , threw it
back and forth like a Fangeball until a litter failed and the childish
joy will actually fell into the fountain. Moment hours since young
lady, beautiful as an angel and friendly, like a grace.

The child, distraught about her step-mother believed before to
see that they always scolded and beat when it came under the eyes.
The nymph but caressed her with gentle words: "Fear nothing, dear
little, I am your godfather, come to me. Look, here's your toy,
which fell into the well. "This drew the child to himself, took it
in the bosom, pressed it tenderly to the bosom, and kissed herzte
little Mathilde and wetted her face with tears. »Orphaned arms,"
she said, "I've promised, parent agency to represent you, I will
also hold.

Visit me often, you will always me in this cave, if you have a stone
fountain in the fall causest.

Bisamapfel Keep this carefully and not play games so that you do not
lose it once you will grant three wishes. If you are growing up,
I will tell you more, now you can not grasp. "They even gave her
some good Vermahnung responsible for the child's age, sent, and bade
her silence, the nurse came back and the nymph vanished. [Illustration]
The little Mathilde had so much prudence, nothing against the nurse
by Mrs godfather to mention when asked Zuhausekunft their sewing
needle and twine and sewed so carefully Bisamapfel into the lining
of the dress. Your mind and thoughts just hours after the wells
mermaids; as often as weather allowed, she suggested the warden for
a walk there before, and because these flattering the girl could
not refuse and that their innate propensity seemed, by the cave of
the favorite residence of the mother was granted this wish of the
Lesser the easier.

As always knew this now an excuse to find the nurse away, and
once they turned their backs, the stone fell into the water and gave
the girls the intelligent society of their lovely Pate. After a
few years, bloomed for the little orphan virgin age approached,
they lived under the Gesinde hidden, sat on its board, dealt with
domestic work and took place after completion of day's work for the
evening time of replacement for noisy pleasures, which they lacked,
in society Nymph at the Fountain.

This was not only their partner and friend, she was also her teacher,
taught the lady in all female art skills and formed following the
example of their virtuous mother. [Illustration] One day seemed to
caress her nymph against Mathilde delightful double; they included
them in the arms, left the head on her shoulders and fall wehmutsvoll
and was so sad that the lady with her einstimmte and was not
included, some tears at the hands of their sponsor to drop, they just
silently at the pressed lips. Through this gentle sympathy was the
nymph yet melancholy, "child," she said with a sad voice, "you
cry and do not know why, but your tears are premonition of your
destiny. The house on the hill stands a big change before,
before the reaper dengelt the scythe and the wind over the stubble
of the wheat field blowing, it's barren and desolate stand. If the
Schloßdirnen at dusk to go of the water from my fountain of rest
and with only buckets back, so remember that misfortune comes.

True to Bisamapfel, you will grant three wishes, and do not wasteful
with your wishes! Posturing thee well at this site we will not see
again. "Taught her the top lady some magical properties of the
apple to get the same in an emergency to handle, cried and
sobbed when Hinscheiden that words failed her, and could no
longer see. [Illustration] To the time of wheat harvest came one
evening, the water-carriers with unmarried jugs back to the castle,
pale and frightened, trembling in all limbs, as they shake off
the frost of the interplay fever,
proclaimed the white woman sitting on the fountain with a sad sign
hands of the struggle and mourning, which meant nothing good.

The war had the people and their weapons makers derision, felt that
it is deception and women gossip.

Some drove out of curiosity, reason,
and Ungrund to investigate the matter, they saw the same phenomenon,
nevertheless took heart and went to the fountain.

As she went, was the face disappeared, and since there's many
glosses and interpretations about, but nobody told the true
interpretation, which Miss Mathilde alone knew whether they like
it had not loud, because the nymph had offered her silence.

They sat lonely and blue on its Board of fear and anticipation of
things to come should be.

Wackermann Uhlfinger its wasteful housewife could not be fed to rob
and plunder, and if he is not expected to storage means, it prepared
him every day, good life, summoned his Zechbrüder together, maintained
him in the whirl of pleasure and let him never to awake, to the
forfeiture of his home exercise system.

If it's to use to cash or food, then gave Jacob Fugger truck or the
Venice of new trucking companies always yield.

This drudgery tired, decided by the General Congress
of the Federal Schwäbischen because warnings and alerts fruchteten
nothing, Uhlfingers downfall.

Before he thought that it was seriously meant, flying the German
flag urban front of the gate of his Bergfest, and there was nothing
left him, as the decision, his life expensive enough to sell.

The bombarde rifles and thunder shook the towers and crossbowmen
on both sides did their best and it rained arrows and bolts, and
one of them, in an unhappy hours abgedrückt where Wackermann
Protection spirit of resentment he had went through the visor of
his helmet deep into his brain, that it immediately in a cold death
slumber dahintaumelte.

Through the case of Mr. Banner became the People's War in great
consternation, and some cowardice put the white flag of the brave
tore it back down from the tower. It noted the enemy, that within
the castle disorder and confusion reign, the besieger storm ran
through the walls rose, took the gate, let the drawbridge down and
hit everything with the sharpness of the sword, what happens to them.

Even the founder misfortune, the profligate woman, was, with all their
children of the slain people wütigen war, against the predatory
nobility was so fierce, as after the rebel wars in the Swabian
peasant.

The castle was purely plundered, set on fire and the earth made.
[Illustration] During the tumult of war held in Miss Mathilde roof
bar very quiet and had the door shut. But when they realized that
everything outside bunt went over and lock and latch it with no
security would continue, she threw her veil over, turned the
Bisamapfel three times in the hand and stepped out kühnlich after
the little feeding, which it Nixe had taught: Behind me night before
my day, that nobody can see me like, and so she walked unnoticed
through the enemy's war people from the father's castle, though
hochbetrübtem with heart and without knowing where they should take
their way.

As long as its not their delicate feet the service failed,
they ran from the scene of the atrocity and the devastation to
be removed, until they, and fatigue of night attack, under a wild
pear tree in a free field to hostels decided.

She sat down on the cool grass and let the tears run free. [Illustration]
Once again they looked after the area around and wanted to bless
them, wherever they are the years of childhood was, as they lifted
their eyes, saw a blood-red fire sign in the sky, from which they ruled
that the mother of their forefathers a robbery of the flames had
been. They turned their eyes from this horror full sight away with
longing and wished that the glittering stars and the pale dawn
from the east hervorschimmern want. [Illustration] marriage is still
met and the dew on the grass in small drops collected and put them
the uncertain Pilgrimage continues and soon came to a village where
they are by a kind farmer, and with a mouthful of bread and a cup
of milk has been refreshed. From this woman bäuerische they swapped
clothes and joined a caravan to the carrier, which they gen-led
Augsburg.

In this dreary, deserted her condition remained no choice but to
opt for a maid to let, but that's besides the time was long, she could
find no rule. Schwabeck by Konrad Graf, a German Mr.

Cross, also Box Vogt and patron of the diocese of Augsburg, daselbst
had a Komterhof, where he maintained residence in the winter.
In his absence Schließerin is a resident, Mrs. Gertrude, that the house
being ruled. This woman was in the whole city for a mega ausgeschrien;'s
no Gesinde could endure it, they are noise and raged around the house
like a poltergeist. The rattling their keys feared the prostitutes,
as the children Ruprecht, the smallest mistake or just bad moods
had their heads and pots charges, just when a rude woman wanted to
describe, it said that it was so bad as a woman Trude in Komterhofe.

One day she had the Strafamt exercised so violently that everything
Gesinde ran away, there came the soft, Mathilde, and offered their
services. To their noble habit to conceal, she had a shoulder padded,
as if it had overgrown, and their blond, silken hair hid a wide
scarf, face and hands, she had covered with soot, a gypsy regular
skin thereby erkünsteln.

As they are notified and the clamp on the door moved, Mrs. Gertrude
put his head out the window, because it now the strange character
was aware, she said that it was a
beggar and called out: "Here is no Almosenamt goes into the Fuggerei,
there will donate one from Heller, "and slammed the window too
hastily.

Miss Mathilde could not deter them ringing until the issuer with
the intention of once again came to light, this intrusiveness with
a layer Scheltworten to reciprocate.

But their marriage toothless mouth opened, the lady they are
understanding what you desire it.

"Who are you," asked Gertrude, "and what can you do?" The adjusted
lass replied: "I am an orphan, my name is Mathilde, Can iron, Can
smooth, Can sew and spin, embroider and knit, too, can chop and
insist, too, and fry cook, I'm rich artistic and nimble hands And
on that issue.

"[Illustration] When the Wirtschafterin this little heard and
heard that the girls nußbraune so much great talent possessed, did
it on the door, gave her the Mietgroschen and took them in the
kitchen. It was their business so faithfully before that Mrs
Gertrude completely out of the exercise came after the finish pots
to throw.

Whether they are equal to strict and always remained sullenly,
everything censured and wanted to know better, it gave her but the
maid never adversary and fought through meekness and acquiescence
to the fruits of black bile from her. It was reasonable and better
than for many years, for proof that devout Gesinde well Regiment,
good weather, pious and faithful makes overlords.

For Hilary says (De Trin. ii) speaking of Christ: "The dignity
of power is not forfeited when carnal humanity [*Some editions read
'humilitas'--'the humility or lowliness of the flesh'] is adopted."
Therefore Christ as man is the adopted Son of God.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says (De Praedest. Sanct. xv) that "by the
same grace that Man is Christ, as from the birth of faith every man
is a Christian." But other men are Christians by the grace of
adoption. Therefore this Man is Christ by adoption: and consequently
He would seem to be an adopted son.

Obj. 3: Further, Christ, as man, is a servant. But it is of greater
dignity to be an adopted son than to be a servant. Therefore much
more is Christ, as man, an adopted Son.

_On the contrary,_ Ambrose says (De Incarn. viii): "We do not call an
adopted son a natural son: the natural son is a true son." But Christ
is the true and natural Son of God, according to 1 John 5:20: "That
we may . . . be in His true Son, Jesus Christ." Therefore Christ, as
Man, is not an adopted Son.

_I answer that,_ Sonship belongs properly to the hypostasis or
person, not to the nature; whence in the First Part (Q. 32, A. 3) we
have stated that Filiation is a personal property. Now in Christ
there is no other than the uncreated person or hypostasis, to Whom it
belongs by nature to be the Son. But it has been said above (A. 1, ad
2), that the sonship of adoption is a participated likeness of
natural sonship: nor can a thing be said to participate in what it
has essentially. Therefore Christ, Who is the natural Son of God, can
nowise be called an adopted Son.

But according to those who suppose two persons or two hypostases or
two supposita in Christ, no reason prevents Christ being called the
adopted Son of God.

Reply Obj. 1: As sonship does not properly belong to the nature, so
neither does adoption. Consequently, when it is said that "carnal
humanity is adopted," the expression is metaphorical: and adoption is
used to signify the union of human nature to the Person of the Son.

Reply Obj. 2: This comparison of Augustine is to be referred to the
principle because, to wit, just as it is granted to any man without
meriting it to be a Christian, so did it happen that this man without
meriting it was Christ. But there is a difference on the part of the
term: because by the grace of union Christ is the natural Son;
whereas another man by habitual grace is an adopted son. Yet habitual
grace in Christ does not make one who was not a son to be an adopted
son, but is a certain effect of Filiation in the soul of Christ,
according to John 1:14: "We saw His glory . . . as it were of the
Only-begotten of the Father; full of grace and truth."

Reply Obj. 3: To be a creature, as also to be subservient or subject
to God, regards not only the person, but also the nature: but this
cannot be said of sonship. Wherefore the comparison does not hold.
_______________________

QUESTION 24

OF THE PREDESTINATION OF CHRIST
(In Four Articles)

We shall now consider the predestination of Christ. Under this head
there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether Christ was predestinated?

(2) Whether He was predestinated as man?

(3) Whether His predestination is the exemplar of ours?

(4) Whether it is the cause of our predestination?
_______________________

FIRST ARTICLE [III, Q. 24, Art. 1]

Whether It Is Befitting That Christ Should Be Predestinated?

Objection 1: It would seem unfitting that Christ should be
predestinated. For the term of anyone's predestination seems to be
the adoption of sons, according to Eph. 1:5: "Who hath predestinated
us unto the adoption of children." But it is not befitting to Christ
to be an adopted Son, as stated above (Q. 23, A. 4). Therefore it is
not fitting that Christ be predestinated.

Obj. 2: Further, we may consider two things in Christ: His human
nature and His person. But it cannot be said that Christ is
predestinated by reason of His human nature; for this proposition is
false--"The human nature is Son of God." In like manner neither by
reason of the person; for this person is the Son of God, not by
grace, but by nature: whereas predestination regards what is of
grace, as stated in the First Part, Q. 23, AA. 2, 5. He said that as
for this, according to pre-order, time of departure came, "You are
always welcome to me." * * * * * Although, as he did not want to
hide, the publisher of these pages after the story of this man was
concupiscent , he avoided it even for new visits, any interest to
reveal.

They had given him some external facts stated in casual conversations,
in which he had led Soana, facts which should be to blame for that
to Ludovico »Soana of heretics" was appointed: he was far more opposed
to, publish, in what sense With this designation was right and what
sort of inner fates, which the particular philosophy of life form
Ludovicos root.

He held back, however, questions and is also richly rewarded. He met
Ludovico mostly alone, either among animals of the herd or in his
hermitage.

A few times he found him as he, like Robinson, the original goat
whey. Or he presented a recalcitrant parent to the kids. Then he
seemed quite the occupation of Sennhirten to be working: he was happy
the goat, the udder strotzende dragged on the ground, the buck
when it was heated and industrious. From one, he said: "If he does
not like the evil itself? But you see his eyes. How much
force, which sparkle in anger, rage, malice. And what holy fire. "The
author, however, it is as if in the eyes of the speaker the same
hell flame would exist, which he is a" sacred fire "had called. His
smile got a fierce stare and train, he showed the white, beautiful
teeth and fell into a state of lost, if he one of his demonic
matadors with the views of the expert in his useful work observed.

Sometimes playing the "heretic" to Panflute and the visitor heard
her simple Tonreihen during the rapprochement. At one such occasion
was of course the conversation on music, and the shepherd developed
strange views.

Never, when he was in the midst of the herd, said Ludovico from
something other than the animals and their habits, from the shepherds
and their professional practices. Not infrequently, he went to the
psychology of animals, the lifestyle of the shepherds according to
the deepest past, as a learned knowledge of no ordinary extent
betrayal.

He spoke of Apollo, as in this Laomedon and Admetos the herds concerned,
a servant and a shepherd was. "I would like to know what
instrument he had made music his flocks." And when he speaks of
something real, he concluded: "By God, I would have gladly
listened to him." These were the moments in which the shaggy Anachoret
perhaps give the impression was as if his mental forces are not
quite as seamless. The other was the idea of a degree of justification,
as he showed how a flock of diverse music to influence and manage it.
With a sound, he chased it up, with others he brought it to rest.
With the sounds he fetched them from afar, with sounds he led the
animals to disperse, or stapled to his heels behind him Dreiner
to draw.

There were also visits in which almost nothing was spoken. Once, when
the oppressive heat of a June afternoon to the pastures of Generoso
had risen, was Ludovico from his store, surrounded wiederkauenden
herds, also lying in a state of blissful twilight. He just winked
at the visitors and led him through a Wink, also on the grass to
stretch. He said then suddenly, after this had happened and both
silent for a while had stored in sluggish tone about it: "You know
that Eros is older than Kronos and also more powerful. - Feel this
glow silent to us? Eros! - Listen to how the cricket feilt?
Eros! "- In this moment, two hunted lizards and flits quickly on
lying away. He repeated: "Eros!

Eros, "- And as if he were given the command had now collected
two strong guys and attacked each other with the winding of horns.
He let her grant, although the fight was always heated. The clatter
of the clashes sounded ever louder and their number was always the
case. And again he said: "Eros! Eros, "And now penetrated to the ear
of the visitor for the first words that he could sit up especially
because they are fairly light on the question of common or at least
seemed to spread, why Ludovico in the vernacular" of the heretics
"meant. "Dear," said he, "I want a lively bench or a lively bull,
as a worship hung on the gallows. I live not in time, which does.
I hate, I despise them. Jupiter Ammon was represented with ram horns.
Pan has pedestal legs, Bacchus has bull horns. I am the Bacchus
Tauriformis or Tauricornis of the Romans.

Mithra, the Sun God is depicted as a bull. All peoples venerated
the bull, the Bock, the ram in sacrifice and shed his holy blood.
For this I say: yes! - Because the persuasive power is the highest
power, the persuasive power is the power-generating, witnesses and
creativity is the same. Of course, the cult of this power is not
cool Geplärr of monks and nuns. I have heard of Sita, the wife
Vichnus, dreamed, under the name of Rama was a man. The priest
died in her embrace.

I have temporarily something known by all sorts of mysteries:
the mystery of the black generation in the green grass, from which the
pearl-colored lust, the charming and stunning, from the mystery of
the yellow maize grains, all fruits, all the swelling, of all colors
at all. I would yell to the madness of grief, as I am the
ruthless, omnipotent view was Sita. I thought before the desire to
die. "While this opening came, the writer of these lines as an involuntary
eavesdropper before. He stood up, with some words that should believe
that he is the self-talk have not heard, but with his mind on other
things had been. Then he wanted to say goodbye. Ludovico did not. And
so began the mountain because again a terrace catering, which but
this was important and unforgettable. The visitor was immediately
on arrival in the
apartment, the interior of the cube already reported, has been
introduced.

He was square, clean, had a fireplace and resembled the simple
working room of a scholar.

There was ink, pen, paper and a small library, principally Greek and
Latin writers. »Why should I deny it to you," said the shepherd,
"that I am from a good family, a youth and learned dragged education
have enjoyed.

They will naturally want to know, as I have from an unnatural people a
natural, from a captive free from a destroyed querulousness and a
happy and satisfied I become? Or, as I myself from the civil society
and Christianity have excluded? "He laughed aloud. "Maybe once I write
the story of my conversion." The visitors, whose power had risen to
the highest, in turn, suddenly found himself far away from the
targets.

It could help him little, that the hospitality at the end said that
the reason for its renewal was he praying to natural symbols.
In the shadow of the rock, on the terrace at the edge of the tub was
flowing into a delicious coolness, ample as the first getafelt
been smoked ham, cheese and wheat bread, figs, loquat, and fresh
wine.

Many was not wanton, but with silent laughter were chatting. Finally,
the stone table cleared. But now came a moment that the editor just
like something is happening at present. The bronze-colored shepherd
made, as we know, with his disheveled, long the main Gelock beard and
hair, his clothes and skin from the impression of Verwilderung. He
is a John the Donatello been compared.

In fact, also had his face and the face of that John in the
fineness of the lines a lot of similarity. Ludovico was actually closer,
beautiful, if one of the distortion of the glasses could foresee.

Admittedly, the whole shape of it again, next to the train quietly
strange, the mysterious Different and Intriguing. At the moment, from
which the speech is the whole man underwent a change. Had the
bronze of his body type is also a certain inertia expressed its trains,
so it is important insofar as they were moved and rejuvenated. He
smiled, you could say in a fit of good boys Schamhaftigkeit. "What I
felt now," said he, "I have no other people suggested. How do I
suddenly have the courage take, I do not actually own. From old
habit of bygone days, I occasionally still read and still handle well
with ink and pen. So I idle in the winter hours simple written
history, long before my time here in and around Soana, happens to
have. You will find it extremely simple, but I pulled it from all
sorts of reasons that I will not discuss now. Tell briefly and
frankly: do you want to go with me into the house again and you feel
open, a little of your time in this history to lose, even me, even
without benefit of many hours has cost?

I do not want to, I would advise against. Incidentally, if you command,
I now have the leaves of the manuscript and throw them into the abyss
below. "Obviously this is not happening. He took the wine, the visitor
went into the house, and both sat facing each other. The Berghirt had
a monk on strong writing and written manuscript leaves from the finest
goat skin wound.

How to get the courage to make the visitor he drank, he almost always
from the shore abstieß to log in to the flow of the narrative
of falling again and then started with a soft voice. The story
of the shepherd on a mountain slope above Lake Lugano among many
others, is also a small Bergner to find that one on a steep,
serpentine course in the mountain in about an hour from the lake
from expected can achieve.

The houses of the village, which, as in most Italian places in the
neighborhood, a single, ineinandergeschachtelte gray ruin of
stone and mortar are to return their fronts a gorge-like valley, which
from the floodplains and terraces of the town and in front of a powerful
slope of the hill commanding Giant Monte Generoso is formed. In this
valley, and where it is really a narrow gorge takes its conclusion,
gushes from a well-hundred meters higher trough a waterfall, depending
on day and season and just prevailing flow of air, more or less strongly,
with its noise an everlasting music of the town. In this community
was a long time about fünfundzwanzigjähriger priest was moved, the
name was Francesco Raffaele.

He was born in Ligornetto, ie in the Ticino, and could boast, a member
of the same, local race to be the most important sculptors of united
Italy, had emerged, also in Ligornetto was born and eventually died
there. The young priest had his youth with relatives in Milan and
his period of study in various priests seminars in Switzerland
and Italy to persuade. From his mother, from a noble genus was,
came to the grave of his character, who, without any wavering already
time to the religious profession in the arms operation.
Francesco, who wore glasses, stood before the crowd of his
fellow students through exemplary diligence, strictness of life and
piety. Even his mother had him gently suggest that he is a priest as
a future world a little zest for life and probably should not indulge
actually on the strictest monastic rules was committed. Once he
had received the blessing, it was his only desire, however, possible
to find remote parish in order to reside there as a hermit, to your
heart's content, even more than before, the service of God, his son
and his mother to consecrate sacred .

As it is now after the little Soana came and affiliated with the
church parsonage was calculated, the mountain dwellers realized
soon that he is from a very different kind than his predecessor was.

Even externally, because that was a massive, bull-term farmer had
the pretty women and girls of the village with the help of quite a
different means in his obedience was, as a church Kirchenbußen and
penalties.

Francesco was, however, pale and delicate. His eye was deep. Hectic
glowing dots on the skin over his unclean cheekbone. This came the
glasses, in the eyes of ordinary people still präzeptoraler
icon rigor and erudition. He had, after four to six weeks, on his
way, only a little unruly wives and daughters of the village also,
more so than the other, placed in his power.

Francesco Once through the small gate of the church geschmiegten Parish
Höfchens stepped onto the street, he was already mostly children
and women umdrängt to him with true reverence kissed the hand. And
how many times the tag through the small church in the clamp
was called confessional, that made the evening a number which his
neuangenommenen, almost siebzigjährigen housekeeper drew the
reputation they have never known how many angels in the otherwise
fairly corrupt Soana been hidden would be.

In short, the reputation of the young priest Francesco yell in the
region far and wide, and he came very soon in the reputation of a
saint. From all this was not challenged and Francesco was far
from being in any other sense to maintain a his duties that he was
reasonably fair.

He read its fairs, was never reduced zeal with all functions of
the church and worship - the small classroom was in the parsonage -
versah also adopted the duties of the secular school. * * * * *
One evening, at the beginning of the month of March, was very
strongly at the bell of the parish Höfchens torn, and when the opening
came and Schaffnerin with the light of the lantern in the bad
weather hinausleuchtete, stood before the door a bit feral guy,
the priest wished to speak.

After the Schaffnerin until the gate was closed again, went to the old
person to enter their young commander, in order, not easily
visible anxiety, the late visitor log. Francesco Solo, who is under
obligation to others had made, nobody who it may be, of his need,
be dismissed, said only briefly, from the reading of any church
father look up: "Go ', Petronilla, led him inside."

Soon after stood before the table of the pastor for some forty years
man whose appearance the people of that land area was only widely
neglected, even neglected. The man went barefoot. A ragged, regendurchnäßte
trousers on the hips was a belt of states. The shirt was open. The
brown, hairy chest sat in a bushy throat and into a beard and hair
black and dense umwuchertes face away, from which two dark eyes
glowing hervorbrannten. An existing patch, soaked from the rain
jacket, the man on the Hirtenart hanged left shoulder while he
was one of wind and weather for many years and shrunk decolourised,
small felt excited with the brown and hard fists herumdrehte.
A long Knüttel he had before the entrance to it. When asked
what he wanted, brought the man under wild grimaces an incomprehensible
torrent rough sounds and words, which is the dialect of that area
belonged to, but again a variation of it, even in Soana born
Schaffnerin as a foreign language appeared.

The young priest, his next visit to the small, burning Lamp out
with attention had tried in vain to the meaning of his intention
to fathom.

With much patience, in numerous issues, as much as he could finally
get out of him that he is the father of seven children was, some
of which he liked in the school of the young priest would have been
appropriate.

Francesco asked: "Where are you from?" And when the answer, hervorgesprudelt:
"I'm from Soana" was astonished, and said the priest at the
same time: "That is not possible!

I know everyone here at the place!

but you and your family I do not know.

"The shepherd, farmer, or what he now liked his, was now able to
house one of many gestures accompanied, passionate portrayal
of the wise, however, was not Francesco. He said only: "If you're
residents of Soana, and your children have reached legal age, so
should they in any case has long been my school.

And I would have but you or your wife or your children in worship in
the church, at Mass or confession, have seen. "Here the man tore
his eyes and the lips pressed together. Instead of each
response, he uttered, as outraged and compressed chest, the breath
out. "Well then, I will write down your name. I think it's
brave of you, that your own steps, and doing so that your children
are not ignorant, and possibly remain godless.

"With these words the young cleric caught the ragged man, so that his
brown, sinewy athletic body, and almost of them has been shaken to a
strange, almost animal way to röcheln. - "Yes," repeated enter
Francesco, "I draw your name on me and become the thing because according
to research." You could see how to tear tear reddened eyes of the
edges of the unknowns on the scrubby herniederrann face.

"Well, good, "said Francis, of the excited nature of his
visitor could not explain the way, and still more worried when
taken was - 'well, well, your case will be investigated.

Call me your names, good man, and sends me tomorrow morning your
children! "The silent Angeredete Francesco and saw this with a puzzled
expression and tortured a long time. This again asked: "What is your
favorite? says your name. "The clergyman was right from the start,
in the movements of his money a little scary, like something hurried
noticed. Now that his name should be, and outside on the stone
step at the same time the screed Petronillas was audible, he crouched
and pointed at all Schreckhaftigkeit, as they usually only suitable
criminals or insane. He seemed prosecuted.

He seemed on the run from bunnies to be. Nevertheless, he took a piece
of paper and the pen of the clergy, came strangely into the darkness,
away from light, to the window sill where the bottom stream and a
nearby, more distant from the waterfall of Soana hereinrauschte and
painted, with some effort, but still legible, on something he and
the priests zureichte decision.

That said, "Well," and, with the sign of the Cross, "is associated
with peace," The Wild went and left a cloud of vapors back, after the
salami, onion, charcoal smoke, according to goat barn and perfume.
Once he was out, Francesco
tore at the window. * * * * * The next morning, had Francis, as
always, his show, after a little rested, after his frugal breakfast
itself and was soon on the way to the Sindaco, the time you had to
attend to him to be .

He drove that day from a station, deep down at the lakefront, to
Lugano inside, where he was in one of the busiest streets and a
large retail operation with ticinese cheese.

The sun shone on the small,
with old chestnut trees, which meanwhile were still bare , lined
square, near the church was like the Agora and the village was
formed.

On some stone benches and sat around playing children, while older
mothers and daughters in a cold mountain water, which he was
richly fed, over-flowing, antique marble sarcophagus and washed
laundry in baskets to dry davontrugen.

The floor was wet because of rain the day before, with snowflakes
untermischt, had fallen, because of how powerful rock slopes of
Monte Generoso under snow, beyond the Talschlucht, in his own shadow
with rugged inaccessible aufragte snow and fresh air herüberhauchte.

The young priest was beaten with downcast eyes to the laundry troughs
over their noisy greeting, he responded by nodding.

Umdrängenden him the children he left them on the glasses oldish
considering the hand for a moment where they all with zeal and haste
her lips abwischten.

The village, as she started behind the square, was by a few narrow
streets made passable.

But even the main road could only accommodate a small wagons, and
only in their anterior parts are used.

After the exit of the village they are narrowed and was even more
so steep that even with a maximum laden mules through it and could
hinan.

On this street there was a small store and the Swiss
post office.

The postal agent, the predecessor to Francesco comradely Verkehrsfuß
had stood, saluted, and was again greeted by Francesco, but only
as that between the seriousness of the sacred and the friendliness
of the plates profane the full distance was maintained.

Not far from the post office turned the priest into a miserable
Seitengäßchen to the podium with stairs and on a mad way to open
goat barns, and all types of dirty, windowless, like caves keller
over, went down.

Chicken cackles, cats were sitting on rotten galleries tufts of suspended
corncobs. Here and there meckerte a goat, an animal blökte, which
for some reason not on the pasture was withdrawn. You could be
surprised if, coming from this environment, through a narrow gate to
the house of the mayor and had entered into a escape of small, arched
halls found their blankets of craftsmen, in the style of Tiepolo,
figure-rich ausgemalt were.

High windows and glass doors, with long, red curtains adorned
resulted from these sunny rooms on an equally sunny terrace free,
from ancient, cone-shaped cut boxwood and laurel adorned was wonderful.
As everywhere, including here, we heard the beautiful sound of the
waterfall and had wild mountain beyond the wall opposite. The Sindaco,
Sor Domenico was a gutgekleideter, in the mid-forties standing, a
quiet man, before the first few quarters had married the second time.

The beautiful, blossoming, zweiundzwanzigjährige woman, Francesco in
the bright kitchen with breakfast preparation employed had made led
him to the husband enters. As the story of the priest, of the
visit, the evening before he had received, listened to and read the
paper had the name of the visitor and the wild man in clumsy lettering
was wearing was a smile from his face.

Then, when he was young sacerdote forced to take place had he
started, completely objectively, and without the mask-like faces his
indifference was ever disturbed, the desired information about
the mysterious visitor who actually the priest remained hidden until
now people had Soanas to specify. * * * * * »Luchino Scarabota," said
the Sindaco - it was the name of the visitor to the parish priest
had scribbled note!

- »Is no poor man, but has for years been making his home states of me
and the whole community headache, and it is not really clear where all
this is still beyond the end run. He belongs to an old family,
and it is very likely that it is something with the blood of the
famous Luchino Scarabota da Milano in the explanation of between
fourteen and fifteen hundred the nave of the cathedral built
into Como.
But the Gentiles are
reproached principally for that "they changed the glory of the
incorruptible God into the likeness of the image of a corruptible
man," as is written (Rom. 1:23). Therefore Christ's image is not to
be adored with the adoration of _latria._

Obj. 3: Further, to Christ the adoration of _latria_ is due by reason
of His Godhead, not of His humanity. But the adoration of _latria_ is
not due to the image of His Godhead, which is imprinted on the
rational soul. Much less, therefore, is it due to the material image
which represents the humanity of Christ Himself.

Obj. 4: Further, it seems that nothing should be done in the Divine
worship that is not instituted by God; wherefore the Apostle (1 Cor.
11:23) when about to lay down the doctrine of the sacrifice of the
Church, says: "I have received of the Lord that which also I
delivered unto you." But Scripture does not lay down anything
concerning the adoration of images. Therefore Christ's image is not
to be adored with the adoration of _latria._

_On the contrary,_ Damascene (De Fide Orth. iv, 16) quotes Basil as
saying: "The honor given to an image reaches to the prototype," i.e.
the exemplar. But the exemplar itself--namely, Christ--is to be
adored with the adoration of _latria_; therefore also His image.

_I answer that,_ As the Philosopher says (De Memor. et Remin. i),
there is a twofold movement of the mind towards an image: one indeed
towards the image itself as a certain thing; another, towards the
image in so far as it is the image of something else. And between
these movements there is this difference; that the former, by which
one is moved towards an image as a certain thing, is different from
the movement towards the thing: whereas the latter movement, which is
towards the image as an image, is one and the same as that which is
towards the thing. Thus therefore we must say that no reverence is
shown to Christ's image, as a thing--for instance, carved or painted
wood: because reverence is not due save to a rational creature. It
follow therefore that reverence should be shown to it, in so far only
as it is an image. Consequently the same reverence should be shown to
Christ's image as to Christ Himself. Since, therefore, Christ is
adored with the adoration of _latria,_ it follows that His image
should be adored with the adoration of _latria._

Reply Obj. 1: This commandment does not forbid the making of any
graven thing or likeness, but the making thereof for the purpose of
adoration, wherefore it is added: "Thou shalt not adore them nor
serve them." And because, as stated above, the movement towards the
image is the same as the movement towards the thing, adoration
thereof is forbidden in the same way as adoration of the thing whose
image it is. After a while kneeling blown into the fire, sticks to done
now and the lid of the cooking and to ventilate words in an
incomprehensible dialect was spoken, he was suddenly a huge Juchzer,
from the Felsbastionen of Generoso back and multiple echoes
widerhallte. Hardly verklungen that this echo was heard anything so
loud shriek with laughter and come closer. There were different
voices, the voices of children, of which one is alternately laughing
and calling for help, female voice differed. At the sound of this voice
Francesco felt his arms and feet die, and it was him at the same
time, as if to announce a power which, compared to the one his
natural life had wrought, the secret of the true, real-life contained.

Francesco burned like Dornbusch of the Lord, but outwardly he was
nothing worth noting. While his affairs seconds without reflection
was, he felt an unknown and an exemption as sweet as hopelessly
captivity. * * * * * Meanwhile had stifled the laughter, the female
calls approximated to the use of a sloping path is just as innocent
as admittedly unusual, bucolic picture became visible. Ebenderselbe
piebald goat, the priest Francesco during his first visit to
the Alm harassment had led prustend and unruly, a little Bacchantenzug,
although he, of noisy children, who only Bacchantin astride the squad
on his back helped. The beautiful girl, Francesco, as he believed,
for the first time saw her, gave the Horns the buck winding force
taken such a strong but they are bent backwards, the neck of the
animal with them rapidly, but they could not, either it to force
a halt, nor from his back herunterzusteigen.

Some fun, the children's sake they might have liked, had the girl in
this helpless situation, as they are not actually sitting, but on
both sides of the unsuitable mounts with bare feet touching the earth,
was taken less than progressive and but without a case to be done by
the unruly, fiery Bock could not get rid of. So her hair was solved,
the coarse Tragbänder her blouse were geglitten from the
shoulders, so that a delicious hemisphere became visible, and the
like so little to Wade reaching Röckchen the shepherdess now reached
even less to their knees to lush cover .

It took a long time before the priest was aware of who is actually
Bacchantin was and that he wanted lechzend her the object of his
desire marternden before him. The cries of the girl, her laughter,
her involuntary movements of wild, captive loose her, flying hair,
the open mouth, the tall and fits chest breathing, the whole
almost forced and voluntary but foolhardiness of wanton Ritts,
they had completely changed externally. A rosy glow over her face and
mingled with lust and fear Schamhaftigkeit, which is funny and sweet
words, if one of the lightning-quick hands of the buck Horne continued
after Rocksaum drove
dangerously shifted.

Francis was banned and the image of decay, as it would be with the
power to paralyze gifted.

It appeared to him nicely, in a way that it is not remotely the
obvious similarity with a Hexenritt pointed out.

On the other hand, picked up its ancient impression. He thought
of the marble sarcophagus, which is of clear mountain water flowing,
in the village square, Soana stood, and its recently Bildnerei he
had studied. Was it not as if this stone and yet so vibrant world of
the wine god crowned the dancing satyrs, the panther-drawn wagon
triumph, flute players and the Bacchae, in the stone Ödeneien
of Generoso hidden, and as if suddenly one of the most god-loving
women, from The frenzied worship of the mountain Mänaden away,
surprising the present life force.

Had Francesco Agata not immediately, so that the buck was the priest
identified immediately: why he's screaming in vain and reluctant
Last zuschleppte straight, and he, without any conditions, with its
divided two front hooves on the bosom of the priest came, he caused
that his rider, finally relieved of his back slowly herunterglitt.

After the girl had understood that a stranger was present, and as they
now do in that stranger recognized Francesco, dry suddenly her
laughter and her vivacity, and her face, yet just before lust
shone had adopted a defiant almost to paleness. * * * * * "Why
are you today do not come to church?

"Francesco did this question, is uplifting, in a tone and with an
expression of his pale face, the man as an angry point was, though
he a different excitation of the mind as the cause was.

Whether it's because he wanted to hide
the excitement, or embarrassment,
helplessness, yes, because really
the pastor in his indignation fell: Wrath of the increased and
joined in a way, that of the shepherds was baffled look up, but the
girl one after another the redness and paleness of dismay and shame
drove into the face.

But while Francesco spoke and punished with words - words that were
familiar to him, without his soul in them to be needed, it was still
inside it, and while the veins alabasternen his forehead aufschwollen,
he found the delights of a redemption.

The just still felt, was vital in the lowest wealth transforms, of
marternde hunger satiety, which is still cursed, infernal world
of troff now glory of Paradise.

And by the lust of his anger spilled stronger and stronger, she was
stronger and stronger. He had not the desperate state of mind in
which he just had, but it jubilierte in him, and he had to bless him
and bless again. This condition was the bridge to have been
bliss. So much was Francesco allbereits into the magic circle of
love into it advised that the mere presence of the beloved object
that has brought enjoyment, of happiness to a stunned and yet so
close deprivation can not think.

In all felt the young priest and hid not, what change was made
with him. The true state of his system was almost nakedly apparent.
The great hunt, which he had behind him, he knew it probably was
not from the church and outside of the pre-sacred road, the clear and
his work was strictly drawn. For the first time became not only his
foot, but also his soul in the Weglosen and it came before him as if
he is not as humans, but rather as a falling stone, a falling drop,
a leaf driven by the storm, to the point on which he now stood,
would be reached. Each of his angry words Francesco taught that he
himself was not more powerful, however, but was forced at any
price over Agata to seek and exercise. He took her with words in
possession.

The more he humiliated them, the more full it sounded in the harps of
bliss. Any pain that he inflicted punishing her, awakened in him a
fever: it is not missing much, even if the pastor was not present,
Francesco would be in such a frenzy, the last of his self-control
and would have deprived the girls feet falling, the real beat of his
heart betrayed. Agata had until that day, but they are the infamous
property had become large, the innocence of a flower stand preserves.
Similarly, when the mountains were their gentians, this same question,
blue-eyed star ever in the valley, at the bottom of the lake have
been seen. She had experienced the closest circle.

But, although the priest did it for no man, much more of a thing
between God and man, a kind of alien sorcerer was erriet they
suddenly, and indicated by a surprised look, what Francis wanted
to hide.

The children had the goat on scree climb of them. The Holzknecht was
in the presence of the priest not have become. He took the pot
from the fire and climbed so many troubles probably up to a comrade,
the burden sticks to a infinitely long wire over a precipice down to
the depth transported. With a grinding noise was such a dark
respective bundles along the Felsbastionen then, a brown bear or
the shadow of a giant bird's not dissimilar. Incidentally, it seemed
to fly, because the wire was not visible. As a urkräftigen Yodeller,
of the battlements and bastions of Generoso widerhallte, the shepherd
of the circle face entschwunden was kissed Agata, almost
contrite, the priest the hem of the robe and then hand. * * * * *
Francesco had mechanically on the crest of the girl the sign of the
cross made with his fingers had touched
her hair.

But now there was a convulsive trembling of his arm, as if a bit
with their last strength in another bit of his power to keep.

But the tight, little inhibition could not prevent the blessing hand
and slowly spreads to the surface with their head of the repentant
sinner came closer and closer and suddenly pointed and fully rested.

Feige Francesco was around. It was far from him, some even lie to
themselves and the situation in which he was, with the sacred duties
of his office to justify yet talked to him from all sorts of
confession and Firmelung. And the nearly untamed, ready to jump so
much passion feared the possibility of its discovery, horror and
disgust to excite, that they too cowardly again under the mask of
the clergy fled. "You will see me down in school after coming Soana,
Agate, "he said. "There you will read and write. I wish you a morning
and an evening prayer teach, just as God's commandments, and how
the seven major sins can detect and avoid.

Every week you will be with me confess. "But Francesco, after these
words were torn and without umzublicken, downhill mountain had
risen, decided the next morning, after a übeldurchwachten night,
even to go to confession.

When it attaches to a tabakschnupfenden Erzpriester the nearby mountain
town, with Arogno name, shared, not hiding game opened, it was readily
passed.

It was obvious that the devil is the tests of the young priest, lost
souls in the bosom of the church zurückzuleiten , opposite,
especially since the woman for the man always the next opportunity
is to sin.

After Francesco Arciprete then use the free time in the parsonage and
had an open window, Linder air, sun and open Vogelsang some word
about the often conflict with human ecclesiastical affairs had
fallen, gave Francesco deception out of which a simplified
heart to bear. To This conversion had probably also for its part,
some of those heavy glasses, black purple wine contributed by
the farmers Arognos kelterten and some of the Pfaff Oxhofte
fully possessed. On the vault under enormous chestnut zartbelaubten,
where the wealth of stored beams, was even more finally, after the
meal the priest and the priest Beichtkinde the convoy, as it under
customary at this time for his other daily requirements Fiasco
taken to fill the habit.

Hardly But Francis had his confessor on the flowery, the wind
moving the lawn in front iron gate of the beaten complained
Felsgewölbes Lebewohl said, no sooner had he, a hale curvature of the
path which coordinated way, hilly country enough, with trees and
bushes, between himself and brought him when he even an inexplicable
reluctance against the consolation of colleagues and felt the whole
time that he had spent with him. schmuddlige This farmer whose
cassock worn and sweaty Among witnesses repugnant odor spread whose
machine niger head and covered with dirt eingefressenem, rough hands
proved , that soap for him a strange thing was, it seemed rather
an animal, yes, a block, instead of a priest of God.

The priests are consecrated persons, he said, as the Church
teaches that through the consecration on natural dignity and violence
have received, so that even angels before them lean. This could only
be a mockery of birth to describe it all. What shame, the
priestly power into such hands Rüpel to see.

Because God but even of such omnipotence, and he was subject
to by the words: "Hoc est enim corpus meum" irresistible force,
to which Meßaltar niederzusteigen. Francesco hated him, yes,
despised
him. Then again, he felt deep regret.

But it finally came before him, as if the smelly, ugly, scurrility
Satan in disguise it would have.

And he thought of such births, with the help of an incubus or a
succubus have been.

Francesco astonished even those emotions on his inside and his thoughts.
His host and Beichtiger had, except through his life, hardly a
given occasion, because his words, even on the table, were quite
taken by the spirit of Wohlanständigkeit. But Francesco already
swam again in such a sense of lifted believed such a heavenly
purity to breathe, that he compared with this sacred element, as
in the ordinary state of damnation seemed festgekettet. * * * * *
The day had come, in which Francis, the sinner from the Alps for
the first time in the parsonage to Soana expected.

He had it applied, the clamp, near the Kirchtür to drag him by the man
in the confessional could call. But it was already against the lunch
time, but the clamp is brisk wanted while he was always being
dispersed, some half-grown girls and boys in the classroom teaching.

The waterfall sent his bluster, aufschwellend now, now drop, through
the open window, and the excitement of the priest grew, so
often it is raised. He was concerned, perhaps the tolling of the
clamp to be heard.

The children baffled his restlessness, his absentmindedness. At least
it escaped the girl whose earthly as heavenly sense mathematically
swarms to the young saints are grazing it with the soul not the case
and therefore was not with them. Through deep instinct with the
emotions of his youth being linked, even those they felt
stress, which is currently dominated.

Zwölfuhrglockenschlag Shortly before the murmur of voices arose
in the village square, with its mailich shoot the Kastanienwipfeln
hitherto silent in light of the sun was. A crowd approaching. You
heard quieter, seemingly protesters, male Kehl lute. But an unstoppable
stream of feminine words, screams, curses and protests überschwoll
with those einemmal and dampened them up to the Inaudible. Then,
a perturbed a quiet year. Suddenly beating your ear dull sounds of the
priest, whose cause in the first moment remained incomprehensible. It
was in May and yet it sounded as if the autumn chestnut tree, under
the force of a gust of wind, loads of fruit all at once
abschüttelte. Platzend drumming hard on the chestnut soil.
Francesco leaned out the window. He saw with horror what Piazza was
underway. He was so frightened, so, so shocked that it is only the
ohrzerreißende, piercing sound of Beichtglöckchens for reflection
brought on by the desperate tenacity was torn. And already he was
in the church and before the Kirchtür geeilt and had the Beichtkind
it was Agata, the bell from the train and gone to church hineingerissen.

Then he appeared before the portal out. So much was clear: the
occurrence of the proscribed in the village was noted and has
been done, which in this case usually was. They had tried it with
stones, like every mangy dog, or how a wolf would have done, from
the living quarters of the people to hunt. Soon, children and mothers
of children together and were expelled, curse-making beings rush
without the beautiful girls in shape somehow interfere with the
assumption to be applicable to their stone-throwing a dangerous animal,
a monster, the plague and spread destruction. Nevertheless,
Agata, protection of the priestly certainly, from its target can not
stop. So resolute was the girl who followed and harassed, arrived
before the Kirchtür who now from a few stones thrown from children's
hands was taken. The priest was not necessary, the community members
excited by a sermon of reflection penalty to bring it vanishes as
soon as they saw him.

In the church had the hochatmenden Francesco, silently facing prosecution
by a Wink means to him to go into the rectory. He too was excited,
and then listened to both bursts breathe.

On a narrow Treppchen cottage of the parish, between whitewashed
walls, which stood aghast, but again a little calmed Schaffnerin
to the wild rush to receive them. One remarked to her that she was
ready to help if it somehow did not.
Only the sight of the old woman seemed aware of the humiliating
Agata their current state to become aware.

From laughter to anger, from anger to laughter about largely, she
curses out strong, and so the priest gave opportunity for the first
time to hear her voice, which, as it happens, full, sonorous sound
and heroic.

She was not known why she was prosecuted. She
looked around the small town Soana like a nest of Erdwespen or a
bunch of ants.

So angry and she was indignant, but it was not in the sense of the
cause of such a dangerous evil upon.

But they knew this condition from childhood and took him for a just
natural.

Young man fighting against wasps and ants. Let there be animals
that attack us, we'll be through them, depending on the hatred,
the anger, outraged and desperate to unload the chest, again
depending, by threats, tears or emotions the deepest contempt.

So did Agata while her housekeeper now the poor rags cope plucking
them yourself but the slug staunenerregenden to their rust-colored
hair ocher, which is hurriedly walking had resolved aufsteckte.

As never before, the young Francesco was suffering at this moment
under the compulsion of his passion.

The proximity of the woman, which, as a wild, delicious fruit in the
Bergödenei to maturity stage was the heady glow to her heated
body ausströmte, the fact that the hitherto remote Unerreichliche
now the narrowness of their own apartment, enclosed all that brought
something that Francesco clench the fists, the muscles tense, which
had teeth bite together, just in a constitution to stay upright,
his brain seconds completely darkened.

Was it hell, it was a huge riot of images, thoughts and feelings in
him, landscapes, people, distant memories, vivid moments of family
and professional past, married with contemporary ideas. Similarly
fleeing from them, rose a sweet and terrible inescapable future upwards,
which he knew quite in ruins. Twitched thoughts on this image of
the soul towards chaos, countless, restless, but fainted. The
conscious desire to recognize Francesco, was dethroned in his soul,
and another there, not to resist was. With horror, the boy confessed
to him he was a disgrace to grace and delivered.

This Constitution was similar to the obsession. But if it the fear of
the inevitable fall in the crime of mortal sin overcome, so he
would have unbridled joy at the same time before aufbrüllen
like. His eye looked with hungry niegekannter, congestion of
saturation. More: here was hunger satiety, satiety hunger.

He shot the wicked idea through your head, here is his own immortal,
divine dining, with the sacrament of devout Christians heavenly
souls nourished.

His sentiments were idolatrous. He said his uncle in Ligornetto a
bad sculptor. And why had he not painted prefer? Perhaps he could
even be a painter. He thought of Bernardino Luini and his
large paintings in the old monastery church of Lugano and close to
the delicious, golden, holy women, his brush has created there.
But they were nothing compared to this hot, vibrant reality.
Francesco knew no immediately what he should start. A warning sensation
led him initially, the proximity of the girl to escape. All sorts of
reasons, not all the same loud, led him at once and kept the Sindaco,
before others could do it from the event with ease.

The Sindaco heard him calmly, Francesco had him at home happily taken
and recorded in case the position of the priest one. It was just good
Christian and Catholic, the mismanagement on the Alpe not easy to
run and to be in sin and shame became, disreputable people to accept.

But what the villagers and their behavior was, as he promised on
the other hand, strict penalties. When the young priest had gone,
said the pretty wife of the Sindaco, a quiet, silent type to be
had: "This young priest could probably until Cardinal yes, bring on
the Pope. I think he draws from with fasting, prayer and
vigils. But the devil is just behind the Saints, with its hellish
arts, and with the hidden tricks and lists.

May the young man, by God's assistance, in front of them always be
protected. "Many covetous and wicked women Francesco's eyes when
he, with as little as possible accelerated step, went back to the
parish. You knew where he was, and was committed to this plague of
violence Soana only impose it. Aufrecht border girls, the wood
on their heads carrying him on the spot near the marble sarcophagi
encountered had him with submissive smile greeted, but afterward
as contemptible. As the fever then gradually Francesco. He heard
the Durcheinanderschmettern of the birds, the rising and subdued
noise of eternal waterfall: but it was him, as if he were not the
feet on the ground would have been, but rudderless in a whirlwind
of sounds and images would be torn forward. Suddenly he found himself
in the sacristy of his church, then in the ship before the main
altar, when he was kneeling, the Virgin Mary to assist them in the
storms inside of his sacrifice. With his requests were not in
the sense that it should be exempt from Agata. Such a request
would have been in his mind had no food.

They were much more a plea for mercy. The Mother of God should be
understood, forgiven, might approve. Francesco suddenly broke the
prayer from the altar and became fortgerissen than him
about the idea, Agata davongegangen could be shot into the
consciousness. He found the girl yet, and Petronilla made her
society. "I have everything straight," said Francesco. "The road to
the church and the priest is free for everyone.

Trust me, what happened will not happen again. "Overcome him
a strength and security, as if he were now back on the right path and
would be good reason. Petronilla was an important piece of church
records to the neighboring parish sent.
Before animation, therefore the body of the
Blessed Virgin would not be infected with the guilt of original sin,
because privation of grace can only be in that which is the subject
of grace, viz. the rational soul. Nevertheless, before animation the
body of the Blessed Virgin, being seminally descended from Adam, was
such that it would have been the means of transmitting the taint of
original sin to the rational soul at the very first instant of
animation, unless the grace of the Redeemer intervened and sanctified
her soul "in that self-same instant," thus redeeming her and
preventing her from contracting the guilt of original sin.

Why, then, does St. Thomas say that because the Blessed Virgin was
not sanctified before animation, therefore she could be sanctified
only after animation?

Such a conclusion would hold if it were a question of the order of
Nature: "a thing must be before it is such (_prius est esse quam esse
tale_)"; and therefore the soul must be, before it is sanctified. But
if St. Thomas held for a posteriority of time, no matter how short,
we ask how it was that he did not perceive the fallacy of the
argument, since it might be neither before nor after, but in the very
instant of, animation.

The question is answered thus: St. Thomas as a Doctor of the Church
and in matters which were not then _de fide,_ is a witness to the
expression of the faith of his time. Hence his line of argument
coincides with, because it follows, that of St. Bernard, Peter
Lombard, Alexander of Hales, Albert the Great, St. Bonaventure. It was
not likely that St. Thomas would differ from the great masters of his
time, who failed to understand that the grace of redemption might at
the same time be one of preservation and prevention. Nor is it likely
that St. Thomas had any reliable information about the movement* in
progress at that time towards a belief in the Immaculate Conception.
[*Principally in England, where, owing to the influence of St. Anselm
(1109), the doctrine was maintained by Eadmer (1137). Nicolas of St.
Albans (1175), Osbert of Clare (1170), Robert Grosseteste, Bishop of
Lincoln (1253), William of Ware (1300), who was the master of Duns
Scotus (1308)]. No doubt he knew something of it, but the names of its
promoters would have weighed little with him as against those of
Bernard, Albert, Peter, Alexander, and Bonaventure. In this regard, the
vox populi rarely go out. "With this declaration, the Sindaco his
story continues. "Whenever one of the children around us or on or in
Melano Arogno has to look, it's almost been stoned. Keep each
church, where people are known for desecrated when the wicked pair
of siblings she enters, and the two have the proscribed, as they
believed the experiment to be able to make on such a terrible way to
feel that they have been any inclination to visit church has lost.
And you should allow about,
"continued the Sindaco continued," that these children, these
cursed creatures that everyone's disgust and horror are here in our
school and children between the good Christians in the school sit?

Can we expect that we should tolerate that our whole town, young
and old, by this moral Schandprodukte these poor, mangy beasts
verpestet is?

"The pale face of the priest Francesco not
countenance betrayed by how the story affected him Domenicos Sor
had.

He thanked and went with the same seriousness worthy of the
expression of the entire system, with which he appeared was this. *
* * * * Francesco had soon after the meeting with the Sindaco his
bishop about the case Luchino Scarabota report. Eight days later,
the answer was the bishop in his hand to the young cleric ordered,
from the general state of relations on the so-called Alpe of Santa
Croce in person to teach. The bishop praised the spiritual
zeal of the young man and confirmed he he had probably cause, that
this lost souls and proscribed because of his conscience to feel
threatened for their salvation and need to be.

Of the blessings and consolation of the mother church, one should
not even exclude lost sinners. Only towards the end of the month
of March allowed the office and also the snow of Mount Generoso
of the young cleric Soana, with a fellow countryman as a guide,
the ascent to Alpe Santa Croce election. Easter was just around
the corner, and yet at the Mountain Giant Schroffwand continually
muffled thunder of avalanches in the gorge beneath the waterfall
fell down, had throughout the spring, where the sun has managed to
act freely, with full force.

So little Francis, unlike his holy name of Assisi, nature lovers
could but the tender and juicy Sprouting, green and blooming around
him was not without effect on him to stay.

Without that, the young man whose need to be clearly aware, he had
the delicate fermentation of spring in the blood and enjoyed his
part of that inner thresholds and the insistence of the whole nature,
the heavenly origin, and despite wonnig-sensual earthly implications
in all its blossomed heavenly delights.

The chestnut trees on the square over which the priest and his companions
had to step back initially had from brown, sticky buds delicate
green stretched hands.

The children's noise, no less the sparrows, the church under the
roof and in a myriad of loopholes in the winding village nested.

The first swallows withdrew their wide grinding Soana on the brink
of the ravine, where they apparently close to the fantastic
getürmten, inaccessible rock face of the mountain wall abschwenkten.

There, on top of tabs or Felslöchern, where never a human foot
hingedrungen was horsteten osprey.

The big, beautiful brown pair were driving and flying just to float in
the hour-long duration flights over mountain peaks, always higher
and higher circles, as if they majestically, even forgotten, in the
infinity of space freed inside.

Everywhere, not only in the air, not only in brown,
agitated, or with grass and daffodils clothed earth and everything
in them through straws and strains in leaves and flowers made up,
but also in the people was the Festive and the brown faces of the
peasants, the the terraces between the rows of vines with a curved
knife or hoe worked radiated from Sunday: but also had most of them
the so-called Easter, a young goat, already slaughtered and hind
legs tied together at home Türpfosten hanged.

The women, the very particularly numerous and loud with their laundry
baskets filled to over flowing marble sarcophagus gathered were
interrupted when the priest and his companions passed their noisy
mirth.

Also at the exit of the village stood laundry troughs, where a small
jet Madonna image from the rocks penetrated and also in an ancient
marble sarcophagus spilled.

Both pieces, both of these sarcophagi, as those who stood on the seats,
were a long time ago from an orchard full millennial oak and chestnut
have been raised, where she since time immemorial, only slightly
from the floor exceptionally well, under Epheu and wild laurel hidden
, had confessed. In passing bekreuzte Francesco, yes, broke the walking
for a moment, to the lovely field of flowers with victims of land
surrounded Madonetta people on the sarcophagus, with a flexion of
the knee to pay homage.

For the first time he saw this little bee umsummte,
lovely sanctuary because he upper part of the town had never visited.
Soana War, with its lower part, with its church and some shops
decorated with green, quaint town houses around the terraces to
support Kastanienplatz almost wealthy bourgeois, and showed it in
gardens and garden blooming almond trees, oranges, large cypress
trees, in short, a more southern vegetation, Up here, a few hundred
paces higher up, it was only an alpine, humble shepherds village,
after the goat barn and smelled.

Also put a stone paved with Wacker, very steep mountain path, which by
daily morning and evening feeding excerpt of the large communal
goat herd was smoothed, because it led up to and beyond Gemeindealm
in kesselförmige the headwaters of the river Savaglia which is below
the magnificent Soana waterfall forms and after a brief, roaring run
through deep gorges in the lake of Lugano is sinking. When the priests,
always guided by his companion, a short while on this Bergweg hinan
had climbed, he stood still, to aufzuatmen. The large, black,
plate-like hat with the left of the head taking, he had the right
to a large, colored handkerchief pulled from the cassock, which he
sweat beads from his forehead dabs.

In general, the natural sense, the sense of an Italian priest for the
beauty of the landscape, not particularly. But the vision of great
height and made of the so-called bird's-eye view, as one calls it, is
an irritant, including the naivsten people and sometimes it takes
a certain amazement abnötigt. Francis saw his church along with the
related town already only as a thumbnail image below, while around
him the mighty mountains, as it seemed, always stood higher into
the sky.

In the mixed feeling of spring is now the feeling of the sublime,
perhaps from a comparison of one's own smallness with the mighty
works of the oppressive nature and its threat, is near silent and
the like with a half-consciousness of which is that we are also
This superiority in any way participate.

In short, Francesco felt great and lofty-wee-small at the same instant,
and this gave rise to the normal movement on the forehead and chest
before the errors and demons protective cross to beat. In Continue
climbing soon had religious issues and practical -religious affairs
of his district from the youthfully eager Klerikus possession taken.
And when he once again this time at the entrance of a rocky plateau
stood silent and turned, it was the sight of a badly neglected here
for the shepherds built brick Holy Shrine on the idea put all existing
sanctuaries of his parish, and if they were still so remote , and
reside in a god worthy stand. He let his eyes wandering once and
looked for the existing places of worship may be comprehensive
overview.

He took his own church with a vicarage glued it to the starting
point. She stood, as I said, at the level of the village square and
its exterior walls were in steep rock walls of the base continues,
in which a mood vorüberrauschte mountain stream below. This mountain
stream, with the square of Soana hindurchgeführt, entered into a brick
arch into the light, where he was, admittedly heavily polluted by
sewage, tree gardens and flowery meadows watered. Beyond the
church, a little higher, which is not noted here, was on a round,
flat terrace the hills surrounding the ancient shrine, a small
chapel of the Virgin Mary, whose cult dusty picture on the altar
of a Byzantine mosaic in the apse vaulted was.

This, despite the thousand-year and higher age in gold ground and
in good drawing, mosaic of Christ Pantocrator was dar. The distance
from the main church to the sanctuary was not more than three
stones throw lengths.

Another beautiful chapel that is dedicated to St. Anna, was at the same
distance from her. About Soana and behind Soana rose a very sharp
cone mountain, in the course of wide radius Talräumen and the flanks
of the outstanding Generoso chain was surrounded. This almost
zuckerhutartige, but green above, seemingly inaccessible mountain
Sant Agatha said, because he's an emergency summit on this very
holy chapels housed.

These were in the closest vicinity of the village churches and
three chapels, located in other districts of the parish for three
or four other chapels anreihten. On every hill, in every lovely away,
on any widely-sighted tip, here and there in picturesque Felsabstürzen,
close and far, over gorge and the lake had centuries of religious
worship glued, so that in this respect the deep and general piety
of paganism was still felt in the course of past millennia, all
these points originally consecrated and so against the menacing,
terrible powers of the wild Nature is divine allies had created.

The young zealots saw all these institutions Roman Catholic
Christianity, as the whole canton of Ticino reward, with satisfaction.
Admittedly he had at the same time with the pain of the real God
Streiter admit that they neither over a lively and pure faith was
alive, nor even a sufficient loving care of his official
brethren, all of these scattered around, heavenly dwellings prior
neglect and oblivion to preserve. After some time, was in the narrow
footpath eingebogen, in three, arduous
climb to the summit of Monte Generoso leads.

It was very soon Savaglia the bed of a ruined bridge to be exceeded,
in which close the pool was the river, which from there in his gap
selbstgebildeten erosion of hundreds of meters deep and more
hinabstürzte.

Here Francesco heard from various heights, depths and directions
of the noise of the tanks on his heraneilenden Whitewater, herd
bells, and saw a man of rough appearance - it was the Gemeindehirt
of Soana!

- Long on the earth outstretched, with his hands leaning on the
shore, head to the water hinabgebeugt, according to an animal species
wiped his thirst. Behind him some goats grazes mothers with their
kids, while a wolf dog with pointed ears and waited for commands of
the moment, where his Master and Lord with drink was finished. "I too
am a pastor," thought Francis, and as those from the earth
and brought with piercing whistle through your fingers, on the
cliffs and widerhallte wider issue of stone throwing his animals
scattered everywhere to shrink soon, soon to further push soon back
in front and at the risk of the crash to keep looking, "thought
Francis, as it has in animals, even in people who have the temptation
of Satan all the time, were divulged, a laborious and responsible
work was heavy. * * * * * With double zeal began the priest continues
to rise, not the other way, as if fear would have been the devil
in this way could be the lost sheep might be the faster.

As he always led by his companions, the entertainment is not a
Francesco tribute, an hour or more burdensome risen steeply and was
always higher and higher into the Felswildnis of Generoso inside, he
suddenly had the Alpe of Santa Croce in fifty step before eyes
subject. He did not believe that that pile of rocks and in the midst
of them being without mortar from flat stone masonry panels
stratified, as the leaders had assured the property was searched. What
he had expected, was, after speeches by the Sindaco, a certain
amount of wealth, while those dwelling most as a kind of shelter
for sheep and goats in a sudden storm could apply.

Since it is on a steep slope of rock debris and boulders were wrinkled,
and then the path in his zigzag course was hidden, seemed to be
cursed place without receipts. Only after the young priest and a
degree of consternation Schauder, who volunteered, had been overcome
and urged closer was designed, the image of the proscribed and
avoided dwelling somewhat friendly.

Yes, the site turned rubble even before the eyes of the priest
näherkommenden in vain sweetness, because it seemed as if from a great
height, the detached avalanche of blocks and debris rohgemauerten by
the cube of the dwelling-up and detained, so that under him a
stone-free, lush green stayed back from the delightful to hold the
most wealth and loveliness Yellow Kuhblumen to the ramp in front
of the door hinankletterten - and as if they were curious about the
ramp and literally across the doorstep in the proscribed living
cave into it.

At this sight stutzte Francesco. This storm run meadow of yellow
flowers against the infamous threshold upwards, this exuberant
processions Hinanblühen Forget langgestielter under which veins
of mountain water seeping away, and also with their blue
shadow of the sky to conquer the door looked, it seemed almost an
open protest against discard spell Femgerichte and the people to
be. Francis had in his amazement, a certain amount of confusion
followed, with his black cassock of a sun block gewärmten sat. He had
his youth in the valley and this usually in enclosed spaces, churches,
auditoriums or study to persuade. His natural sense was not been
awakened.

A company like these, in the sublime, austere loveliness of the high
mountains into it, he had never run so far and it would perhaps never
have done, would not be a coincidence and duty united him Ascent
imposed. Now it overcame the novelty and the size of the impressions.
For the first time felt the young priest Francesco Vela a clear
and great sense of existence by itself hinbrausen the moment he
had long forgotten that he was a priest and why he had come.
All his notions of piety, with a lot of religious rules and dogmas
were intertwined, this sensation was not only ousted but eradicated.

He forgot even now, the cross to beat. Under him was the beautiful
Lugano area of northern Italy's Alps, Sant Agatha stood with
the pilgrimage church, above the still-brown fish predator
circled, was the mountain of San Giorgio, dipped the tip of
the Monte San Salvatore, and finally was at a dizzying depths below
him in the valleys of the mountainous relief as an oblong glass
carefully furnished Capolago called the arm of Lake Lugano with
the sailing boat to a fisherman that a moth on a tiny hand mirror
possible. Behind all this were in the distance, the white peaks
of the High Alps, although with Francesco, rose higher and higher.
It lifted the Monte Rosa white, white lace, with seven shows at
the same time and discretion DIAdem dimly from the silky blue Azure
herüberstrahlend.

If you are fair from a mountain sickness can talk, not so with
lesser rights may be a condition of talking to people on mountain
heights above, and the best health without the same as described.
These health felt now, the young priest in the blood, such as a
renewal.

Beside him, between rocks or under arid heather, stood a small flower,
like Francesco never had seen in life. It was an extremely sweet
blue gentian species, whose flower petals with a flaming blue paint
were surprisingly delicious.
The Bokel went voluntarily into the care of the new ruler of
Dalmatia, but only under certain conditions mutually signed. The
most important of these was: "If the Republic of Venice because of
any political upheaval is no longer able to be Cattaro to defend,
so it must not cede to anyone still sell, but it must be in its old
freedom can continue to exist." [8 ] This old contract with Venice
is remembering that now opposed the occupation of Bokel Bocca by
Austria, which this area through the Treaty of Campo Formio from
1797 after the destruction of the Venetian Republic was granted. The
People's heads are gathered and discussed what steps they should
now.

All were unanimous in the decision, the independence of the country
to defend. On the way this defense, they wanted to not only decide.
On the high mountains, the coast of their country as the natural
protection seemed to be given, they had a guide, while their
religious leaders were, where they are in difficult moments
Council and consolation, and they brought in the most difficult
to help cried. They interviewed him by a Deputation. The Prince-Bishop
[9] of Montenegro, because he was the man who gave the advice
Bokel, they should establish a provisional administration of the
country use a Landwehrkanal build and jurisdiction in their own
hands take over. In this tentative agreement, they should live,
and then wait to see if Venice would rise again or not. If the former
happened, they would develop their relations with him restore. If
not, they should be the rule of Roman Emperor accept, but only under
the same conditions under which they had enjoyed the protection
of Venice.

The Bokel followed this advice.
Reply Obj. 2: The "infirmity" of the flesh, that pertains to the
fomes, is indeed to holy men an occasional cause of perfect virtue:
but not the "sine qua non" of perfection: and it is quite enough to
ascribe to the Blessed Virgin perfect virtue and abundant grace: nor
is there any need to attribute to her every occasional cause of
perfection.

Reply Obj. 3: The Holy Ghost effected a twofold purification
in the Blessed Virgin. The first was, as it were, preparatory to
Christ's conception: which did not cleanse her from the stain of sin
or fomes, but rather gave her mind a unity of purpose and disengaged
it from a multiplicity of things (Cf. Dionysius, Div. However, he held
the gaze, in which horror and horror mixed with malicious rage, to the
new deity addressed, whose sacrilegious audacity term in any case not
to a consciousness of weakness closed. Once in the course, was the
messenger of God alone and some in his holy zeal by even such dangerous
views of the idolaters umnachteten not be intimidated.
And without all the circumstances, he now also to the wicked sin
to speak of, as is generally claimed blessing of the children of
the mountain shepherds to workers.

In the loud talk of the young priest burst like the sister Scarabotas
inside, but without having to speak and only the furtive zealots
musternd themselves here and there in the cave made to do.

She was a pale and odious wife, the wash water, as it seemed,
was an unknown thing.

You saw her naked body through the cracks neglected uncomfortable
clothes shine through. After the priest finished and its stock of the
criminal charges had been exhausted for the time, sent the woman's
brother with a brief, barely audible spoken word into the open
beyond. Without opposition, the wild man at once like the obedient
dog disappeared. Then she kissed the dirt rigid sinner in question,
the matted black hair on the broad hips hung, with the words
"Blessed be Jesus Christ," the priest's hand.

Immediately thereafter she broke into tears. She said that the
priest was quite right, if they condemn with harsh words. It did,
however versündigt against God's commandment, though by no means in
such a way as to slander after her talk. It alone is the sinner, her
brother on the other hand, completely innocent.

They swore at and all the saints that they are those terrible sin which
they Zeihen, namely the incest, never would have been forfeited.
Admittedly, it had lived unchaste, and because she was once a
confession, so she was ready, the fathers of their children to describe,
though not all named to make. Because only a few names they knew,
because she, as she said, often from their plight in favor vorüberkommende
stranger sold. Moreover, their children without any help with pain for
the world and some would have it here and there, soon after birth,
in the Schutte Generoso buried again. Whether he could complete it
now or not, they still knew that God had forgiven her, because she
had troubles with, suffering and worry frugal fined.

Francesco was no different than the weeping confession of woman as a
tissue of lies watch, at least as far as the crimes in question
came from. Admittedly, he felt, there were actions that each
confession before people necessarily reluctant and only God
alone in the lonely silence of prayer experiences. He respected the
degenerate Schamhaftigkeit this woman and could not even pretend
that they are in some respects higher than her brother was nature.

In the nature of their justification was a clear determination. The
eye confessed, but a confession by her words would be good
neither coaxing nor glowing pincers of the executioner snatched
have. She had it been revealed how the man had sent to Francesco. She
had a young, pale priest seen as one day after Lugano went to the
market where the products they negotiated their pasture, and they
had confidence in his sight and the idea taken him their child's
heart proscribed purposes. It alone was the main family and helped
care for his brother and children. "I leave it unerörtert," Francesco
said, "how you're guilty or innocent. One thing is certain: if you
are not your children can grow up like animals do, so must
you disconnect from the brother. As long as you live with him,
the terrible reputation that you have never to silence his. Always
will be the terrible sin when you assume. "After these words seemed
Verstockung and defiance in the mind of woman to be dominant,
at any rate, it gave no answer, and devoted himself as if no stranger
be present would be a long while domestic activity. Meanwhile, a
fifteen-year-old girl inside, a few goats in the opening of the
stall and then drove, as if not there would be Francesco, in the
work of the woman involved.

The young priest knew instantly when he was only until the shadow of
the girl by the depth of the cave, slide saw that it was his unusual
beauty. He bekreuzte, because he had a quiet kind of unexplainable
horror felt in the body.

He did not know whether he, in the presence of young shepherdess
his admonitions should reopen. Although she was, as no doubt was,
by reason of corrupt because they are Satan on the way to the darkest
sin to life was, but it was still a remnant of its purity, and who
wants to know whether they her black origin had an idea. Their movements
were in any event, a great serenity, from which it by no means
confined to restlessness of mind or Gewissensbeschwernis was close.
On the contrary, everything was in it from a modest self-assurance,
by the existence of the priest was not affected. She had Francesco
until now not with a striped look, at least not so that he would
meet her eye or she otherwise would have been caught.

Yes, while he himself she furtively watched through the glasses, he
had more and more in doubt, whether a child of sin, a child of
parents of this nature could be. Finally they disappeared on a
ladder into a kind Dachgelaß up, so that now his painstaking Francesco
chaplains work could continue. "I can not leave my brother," said
the woman, "and quite simply because he is helpless without me.

He may need to write his name, and I told him that only with the
greatest difficulty taught. He knows no coin, and before the
railroad, the city and the people he fears. If I fortgehe, he will
pursue me like a poor lost dog his Lord prosecuted. He will find
me either miserable or perish: and what should be from the
children and our possessions are. I stay with the children here,
so I probably wanted to see it succeed, my brother fortzuschaffen:
you should allow him to do because in chains and behind iron bars
in Milan include.

"The priest said," This may yet happen in the end, if your my
good rate would not follow. "So the fears of the woman in anger about.
It did its brother Francesco cleverly, so that he can have mercy
on her, but not be so unhappy doing it.
It was already then you prefer, of which there hated and expelled
continue to live as before.

It was a good Catholic, but who the church, of have a right to
invoke the devil anheimzugeben.

And what they have not yet done so, the large, it is charged by
sin, then they will maybe do so.

In this mixed with some screaming, the woman pressed words heard
Francesco from where the girl had disappeared, from above always
a sweet singing in the softest touch soon, soon rising into more
sound: that his soul more melodic in this spell, than for the
degenerate Wutausbrüchen woman was. And a wave of heat rose in him,
combined with a Bangigkeit, as he had never felt. The smoky
hole of this animal-human living seemed to stall, as if by magic,
into the most charming of all the crystal caves of Dante's Paradise
turns to be: - full angel voices and lachtaubenartig sounding wings.

He went. It was impossible for him even longer, without visible
shake, this confusing term influences. Outside, in front of the
hollow cairns arrived, sog it the freshness of mountain air and was
immediately, like an empty vessel, with a tremendous impression of
the mountains filled. His soul was like in the broadest power of the
eye moved, and consisted of the colossal mass of the earth's crust,
by far, schneeichten peaks nearby, fearful chasms, under the Light
of the Royal Spring tags.

Still, he saw brown osprey above Sugarloaf Sant Agatha forgotten their
own circles ziehn. Since he declined to the proscribed family
there would be a secret service and opened up this idea of women,
the grief at the yellow dandelion umwucherte threshold of the cave
was underfoot. »After Soana your not allowed to come, as you know
yourself," said he, "I would invite you, me and you, we would be
equally ill-advised."

Again the woman was taken to tears and promised to a given day with the
brother and the older children from the Chapel of Saint Agatha
einzufinden. * * * * * As the young priest as far from the home
Scarabotas Luchino fluchbeladenen and his family was that he then
no longer be seen could, he chose one of the durchwärmten sun block
to calm place to discuss just experienced it.

He said, that he had with an interest in a gruesome but mandatory
sober sense and without any Vorschmack of the heraufgestiegen was
what it now so unknowing way troubled. What was it? He plucking,
cleaned and pointed to his long cassock around, as if he could detach
it. When he was after some time has still not felt the
desired clarity, he took his customary under Brevier out of his pocket,
but also immediately started, loud reading freed him from a certain
irresolution quaint. It was he felt as if it were something, an
important point of his mission, had forgotten to do. That's why he
turned his eyes under the glasses again and again with a certain
expectation of the way back and could not Ermann, started the descent
continued.

So he lapsed into strange reverie, him from the two small incidents
aroused by his usual field of fractional imagination with a
considerable exaggeration saw erstlich zersprang him with a bend,
through the influence of the cold mountain air, the right lens,
and almost immediately afterward he heard a horrible Geprust over
his head and felt a heavy pressure on the shoulders. The young priest
was wagon . He laughed loudly, as he is the cause of his panic terror
in a piebald goat saw him a proof of his unlimited confidence which
had given it without any regard to his spiritual garb with her front
hooves on his shoulders was cracked.

Thus began only its highly confidential intrusiveness. The shaggy
buck with the strong, beautiful spiral horns and fire-eye was
accustomed, as it seemed vorüberkommende climbers anzubetteln and did
so in such a funny, strong and irresistible nature, that it is his
only escape was to flee. He sat Francesco repeatedly hochaufgebäumt
the hooves before the breast, and seemed determined after the
afflicted Durchschnupperung one of his pockets had put up some
bread, and remains with incredible greed had been swallowed, hair,
nose and fingers of the priest abzuknabbern.

An old , bearded goat, a bell and the udder to the ground depended,
was the highwaymen had followed and began this encouraged the priest
beset well. You had the gold cross section and send Brevier special
impression made, and succeeded her while Francesco with the repelling
a winding Bockhorn had to do to deal with the Chen Büchel to conquer.
And his black-printed sheets for Taking green, ate it, after the
Prophet's rule, the holy truths literally and greedy self into it.

In such distress that are characterized by accumulation of other,
isolated grazing animals had further increased, appeared to the
shepherdess as einemmal savior. It was just the same girl, Francesco
first in the hut Luchinos had fleetingly seen. He said that
when the lean and strong person, after they had the goats away,
with freshly reddened cheeks and laughing eyes stood before him: "Thou
hast saved me, girl braves!" And he also sat laughingly
added, he made his Breviary the hands of the young Eva reception:
"It is really strange that I, despite my official shepherd your flock
against'm so helpless." A priest must not be longer than
about his religious duty requires, with a young girl or woman to
work and the community indicated it immediately if it is outside
the church for such an encounter of two is seen.

This was because Francis, mindful of his strict work without linger too
long, his back continued: yet he had a feeling as if he is a sin
and would have caught at the earliest opportunity by a repentis
confession must be clean. Still, he was not from the bells of
the flock arrives, when the sound of a female voice came to him, turn
him suddenly turned all meditations. The voice was so kind that he
was not at the thought came that she could of just left behind
shepherdess belong. Francesco had not only to Rome, the Vatican
church singer, but also frequently worked with his mother in Milan
secular singers heard and so was his coloratura and bel canto
Primadonnen not the unknown. He stood still and waited involuntarily.
Undoubtedly there are tourists from Milan, he thought and hoped that
perhaps, in passing, the owner of this magnificent voice might be
envisaged. Because they do not want to come, he sat on the foot before
foot, carefully descending, into the dizzying depths below.
What Francesco in whole and in detail in this professional experience
course was outwardly not worth mentioning if the atrocities are
not considering
to their breeding grounds in the hut of the poor Scarabota had
siblings.

But the young priest felt immediately, as this mountain ride for
him an event of great importance had become, if he also has the
full scope of this meaning still preliminary decision could not be
removed.

He felt that from the inside out with him for a conversion was
made.

He was in a new condition to it from minute to minute, and somewhat
strange was suspect, but not so long suspected that he might Satan
gewittert or about one inkstand hurled after him would have if he is
also in the bag would have been. The mountain was like a paradise
to him.

For the very first time he wished, with folded hands involuntarily,
happiness, just by his superiors with the administration of this
parish have been to. What was against this delicious depth kept Petri
cloth, the three Zipfeln held by angels from heaven came. Where there
has been a major concepts for human majesty, as this rugged inaccessible
Generoso, which continued and continued the dull thunder spring melting
snow in the avalanche was heard. * * * * * From the days of his
visit to the proscribed was to Francesco to his astonishment rather
than in the mindless peace of his former life back please.

The new face that nature had for him, not faded, and she wanted to
be in any way in its previous, inanimate state to be pushed out.
The nature of its effects, by the priest, not only on the day,
but in his dreams beängstet was called and he recognized it first
as temptations.

And since the faith of the Church, even by the fact that he fought with
the pagan superstition merged, so Francesco led its transformation
in all seriousness at the touch of that wooden object back, that
Alräunchens, the scrubby shepherd rescued from the fire had.

There was no doubt still a residual that abominations alive, which the
ancients under the name of the phallus-service paid homage, that
shameful cult, by the holy war of the cross of Jesus in the
world niedergezwungen was. - Until then, when he saw the appalling
subject was alone in the cross Francesco burnt into the soul. It was
him, not the other way, as if a flock of sheep with a glowing stamp
characterized with the stigma of the Cross; and the stigma was,
in the waking and dreaming currently, the essence has become the
symbol of its own. Well looked the devil incarnate and tiresome over
the cross bar down, and the most dirty, horrible Satyr icon in
perpetual rivalry took more and more the center of the cross one.
Francesco had, besides the mayor, especially his bishop about the
success of its shepherds Ganges report, the answer he received from
him, was an endorsement of his actions. "Above all," wrote the bishop,
"we avoid any noisy nuisance."

He found it very clever that Francesco for the poor sinner, and a special
secret service at Sant Agatha, in the Chapel of the Holy Mother of
Mary, was scheduled. But the recognition of his superiors was the
peace of mind Francesco not produce, he could not get rid of the
thought to be that he is from up there with a kind of enchantment
had come back tainted. In Ligornetto where Francesco was born and
where his uncle, the famous sculptor the last ten years of his life
had been brought, it was still the same old pastor, who as a boy
in the healing truths of the Catholic faith and introduced him to
the path of mercy was shown.

The old priest looked at it one day, after the path from Soana to
Ligornetto in casually had traveled three hours.
Obj. 4: Further, things of the same species have the same mode of
generation: since generation is specified by its terminus just as are
other motions. But Christ belonged to the same species as other men,
according to Phil. 2:7: "Being made in the likeness of men, and in
habit found as a man." Since therefore other men are begotten of the
mingling of male and female, it seems that Christ was begotten in the
same manner; and that consequently He was not conceived of a virgin
mother.

Obj. 5: Further, every natural form has its determinate matter,
outside which it cannot be. But the matter of human form appears to
be the semen of male and female. If therefore Christ's body was not
conceived of the semen of male and female, it would not have been
truly a human body; which cannot be asserted. It seems therefore that
He was not conceived of a virgin mother.

_On the contrary,_ It is written (Isa. 7:14): "Behold a virgin shall
conceive."

_I answer that,_ We must confess simply that the Mother of Christ was
a virgin in conceiving for to deny this belongs to the heresy of the
Ebionites and Cerinthus, who held Christ to be a mere man, and
maintained that He was born of both sexes.

It is fitting for four reasons that Christ should be born of a
virgin. First, in order to maintain the dignity or the Father Who
sent Him. For since Christ is the true and natural Son of God, it was
not fitting that He should have another father than God: lest the
dignity belonging to God be transferred to another.

Secondly, this was befitting to a property of the Son Himself, Who is
sent. For He is the Word of God: and the word is conceived without
any interior corruption: indeed, interior corruption is incompatible
with perfect conception of the word. A Courtisane. Luciana, her
sister. Jailer, court usher, satellites, and other dumb people. The
scene is in Ephesus. Act. Erste Scene. (The Duke's Palace.) (The
Duke of Ephesus, Aegeon, a jailer, and some from the aftermath of
the Duke occur.)

Aegeon. you no longer hems, Salinus, by saying my Urtheils, unglüklichen
my life to an end. Duke. Kauffmann of Syracuse, to say nothing of
your responsibility, I can on the night of salvation Gesezes not
partheylich Seyn. The recent cruel proceedings against some of your
Duke Kauffleute, our faithful Unterthanen which, because they had not
gold enough ransom their lives, his strict Gesez sealed with their
blood have mercy includes everything from our dräuenden from Blik.
Indeed, since these perishable stir up discord between your fellow
countrymen and us out, is in the general assembly of the people,
by the sowol Syracuse as one of us, been decided not to act even
more community hostility between our cities to allow, even more,
which is gebohrne Ephesians on the markets and year fairs can enter
from Syracuse who dies, and hinwieder which gebohrne Syracuse in
the Bay of Ephesus is found, the dies, and his assets are the
attention of the State confiscate it sey then that he thousand marks
to his could pay ransom.

Now belauft is everything you have, after the extreme Schazung,
hardly a hundred marks, du bist so after Geseze condemned to death.
Aegeon. My consolation is that the enforcing your word before sunset,
my Unglüks-cases will end. Duke. Well, Syracuse, tell 'us recently is
the cause why your father left them Heimath, and why you hieher
came after Ephesus are. Aegeon. One could carry heavier me not be
imposed, except that I get from my inexpressible grief should talk.
However, so that the world recognize that the natural course of
human accidents, and not some sort of appalling, the revenge of the
gods requesting crimes, to me this unglükliche end zuzieht; I will
say what my pain me to say is let property.

To Syracuse was I born, and with a married woman, which made me glüklich
and there by myself would have been a hostile fate the duration of
our Glükseligkeit would have allowed. With their lives', I
happily and my assets increased by beglükte travel, which I häuffig
after Epidamnum made until the death of my Factors, and concern
for my goods, which it has been left without supervision, the hugs
from me, my wife snatched.

I was not yet full six months away from her when she (although at a
time when they are pleasant their sex Tight languishes,) institutions
did follow me, and soon glüklich concerned and where I was. It was
not long since, it was a joyful mother of zween pretty boys who like
each other so wonderfully saw that it was impossible to otherwise
than by names. In the same hour and place at which nemlichen, was
a poor woman also zween male twins from birth to each other just
as equal saw these I bought from their parents, because there were
bettelarm people, and moved it to my sons that they should wait.

My wife, on zween these boys was not a little proud, penetrated into
me every day, to speed our departure; agrees I finally, reluctantly
wiewol, and we Giengen, oh too soon! to ships. We had barely a mile
from Epidamnum fortgesegelt than a plözlicher storm darkening the
day, we only have so much light düstres left as Nöthiger was erschroknen
our eyes to the inevitable certainty of death to show. I, for my own
Theil, I would be willing to have burned, but the whining herzrührende
a beloved wife, and their hold Geschrey blessed children who,
without knowing what they should fear, only crying because she saw
her mother cry, nöthigte myself to rescue or at least some time
for them and me to think, and DISS was it, because no other means
hatt 'ich nicht.

The ship was looking for his rescue people in our boat, and we left
the ship, which is already sinking was ripe.
Consequently, just
as it transmuted the slime of the earth into Adam's body, so could it
transmute the matter supplied by His Mother into Christ's body, even
though it were not the sufficient matter for a natural conception.
_______________________

SECOND ARTICLE [III, Q. 28, Art. 2]

Whether Christ's Mother Was a Virgin in His Birth?

Objection 1: It would seem that Christ's Mother was not a virgin in
His Birth. For Ambrose says on Luke 2:23: "He who sanctified a
strange womb, for the birth of a prophet, He it is who opened His
Mother's womb, that He might go forth unspotted." But opening of the
womb excludes virginity. Therefore Christ's Mother was not a virgin
in His Birth.

Obj. 2: Further, nothing should have taken place in the mystery of
Christ, which would make His body to seem unreal. Now it seems to
pertain not to a true but to an unreal body, to be able to go through
a closed passage; since two bodies cannot be in one place at the same
time. It was therefore unfitting that Christ's body should come forth
from His Mother's closed womb: and consequently that she should
remain a virgin in giving birth to Him.

Hermann had his seat at the table below, between William and
Therese, before the punch, because it was the Office of the mouth
Gifts have been transferred. Mrs. Caroline had good "stuff" to
ensure, with the help Tetjes, who as an expert to understand. The
Punch That was in the exquisitely aroused and soon even the real
festive atmosphere. Hermann gave the first toast to the
bride and groom, then followed by speech on speech. Hermann said,
like, a little pathetic, and most certainly the school, with
ample Citatenaufwand.

Once again, he had begun "Ehret women, they weave and weave". Tetje
Aunt Tille toastete on the first of Mrs. Caroline attention had to
be that it applies the high. Wilhelm Beuthien in the other rather
laconic and was distracted, let the women live, and even Uncle
Martin was with the knife in the jar.

He wants to but a few words to the bride people judge them and wish
that they always go well May, "in Leev contributed Fründschaft un, un
with God's blessing." "Un upp en Nakommenschaft," he added, as the
glasses sounded together. The atmosphere was always comfortable.
Hermann, of the punch plenty zusprach, had already been with
Wilhelm Beuthien Duzbrüderschaft drunk. Tetje Juergens had the
old Negendank even once with "min söt oll Deern" angeredet, and
Therese, on several occasions on the forehead, hand stone chilled
in the kitchen as headache it terminated. Beuthien Wilhelm, the
initially silent, gradually dissolved the tongue, as Hermann
einschenkte him diligently, and he moved with all sorts of daring
anecdotes and riddles, which Tetje to Therese anger still felt
the need to offer. Hermann, of the " substance "on the run out saw
aunt whispered to his perception. Mrs. Caroline made an unsafe
embarrassed face twitched and the armpit. Hermann offered" the matter
has to do, "and she was followed by him, the terrine out.

"Wait, what to do with it," cried Tetje and followed also.
"In min Köök hebbt Se Söke to nix", urged the Wittfoth him back and
closed the Thür. Here Hermann made the "thing" with ample use of water,
a lemon and the last remnant of an aunt of those still Rumflasche.
triumphantly wore the new filling on the table. Tetje cautiously tried
the first glass.

"The Schadt 'nix, is the pious," he said ironically, "for the Damens
maybe 's bit too fiery. "Caroline gave him a light slap with her
napkin.

The bräutliche luck and enjoyed Punsch gleamed from their little
eyes. "Nu Music," she said. "Dat's' n word," cried Tetje, "Music as
moeten hebben." We talked for quite some time now mostly flat. "Where
Hest Matrosenklaveer Din? " said, and Wilhelm had to get his hand
harmonica. It should be danced. We moved tables and chairs and
rolled on the carpet. Wilhelm seated himself behind the table in the
left-hand corner sofa and began to play waltzes Spree. The bride and
groom opened the Ball family. Uncle Martin danced with Ms.

Moore and Tetje pulled the ruffling Aunt Tille once through the room.
Hermann alternately danced with his aunt and Mrs Jürgens. Therese
but stood at the Thürpfosten leaned, and saw the handkerchief,
because of the dust, at the mouth pressend, flickering with tired
eyes and burning cheeks too. She felt very miserable, but not complained
to the happiness not to disturb.

My head hurt a lot, as well as the chest, a result of the persistent
cough, to which they talk a lot of dust and tobacco smoke in the
small spaces appealed. They longed the end of the celebration of
guilt, but still had to predict, from bracing overwhelmed retreat .
It was already two o 'clock at night, when my aunt finally put to
rest, while undressing the suffering end with punch blessed
loquaciousness distressing. XXI. The old Behn was immediately after
the race Horner traveled into the bathroom. He used every two years
to go to Carlsbad. But as a strong Esser's success, he usually has his
cure in the first weeks after his return to a sample taken from this
never existed. The whole family had given him, as always, the
convoy at the station where.

Lulu, the concerns expressed in thousands had the feeling as if a
minder less in the home. They breathed a day on. But switching to
the next thöricht. How long could it be hiding? Sooner or later it had
come to light, even if the mother would be blind. Wilhelm important
it entirely. In vain she had tried an approach him on the street take
note. But he had it so easy for them from his pedestal to see it,
faster driving, behind them. Wollte he pull it back? He had his
only game with it driven? Schwindelte with your thoughts. But
he should not think they
like each other Lise treatment.

But her defiance, her fighting spirit was not long before.

She was no heroine.

She was only strong in the passive resistance, in the blunt About
To Be Sure. After the brief moments auflodernden defiance took
hold of her so a deeper depression. Over time, the mother Lulu
changing nature not escape the cause of their changing moods,
changing their wellbeing is not hidden stay. She had already
suspected, as they are still in silence, observing behaved. Lulu, with
the sensitivity of the bad conscience, the mother noticed it perhaps
that they had guessed it. If they pre-empt her confess
everything? It urged them.

But in spite of their hidden nature repeatedly raised objections,
supported by the cowardice. Lulu had with the mother never stood
on own feet, that they now have a loving forgiveness, empathy,
understanding, could expect and require. She was the mother rarely
a good word gegönnt, and should now be humble before her. Their
torments were propagated by Paula who naively complained that
William Beuthien they do not even notice.

"He always does when he sees me not. But what I have to buy. "Basically,
but was frustrated with the very small Beuthien whose behavior
they are not to interpret knew. She had imagined that something
that he previously had ever observed. It was her secret pride
was. Now he saw through it across, as on every other schoolgirl.
Their vanity was hurt. But rather than retreat verschüchtert,
continued her ambition is to bring the lost ground again to win.
Beuthien was her obsession. They followed and watched him and made the
sister, to which they trust in this case had won, for their discoveries
Mitwisserin. "You with your Beuthien" cried Lulu then sometimes
tortured.

"What is happening to you Beuthien." But she was at least glad
that Paula answers can be found that no idea of their relationship
to Beuthien had. So much greater was their fear of the mother.
Always pushing the confession on the tongue, but they always
shrink back. And yet, someone had to confide. Solo, she could no
longer bear it. Several times, she was already in their anxiety in the
process been, Minna, the girl into their confidence.

Once she had even been suggestions made lightly, but Minna was too
stupid to "begriffsstützig." After that Lulu has had Olten.
Ashamed because they are not so common with the maid to do? But
then came the day that all made an end, the decision was out of
hand. Mrs.

Behn was their cause, and could certainly become no longer
remain silent. Comptoir In of the father, under four eyes, they
spoke of. Only a soft hint of the mother, an inquiring glance, and
Lulu burst into Thränen out. "Heet Where he?" asked Mrs. Behn
quiet, but energetic. Lulu silent. The mother shook them violently
by the arm. "Wulle you are talking about. Heet en Keerl Where?"
Where was Lulu's spite? As a child she had to leave to chide? It was
as if the weight transfer, which would otherwise be weak on the
woman's daughter suddenly had gained, particularly long aufspeicherten
resentment of the mother opened the latch.

They trembled with rage. "Heet en Keerl Where?" cried she always
violent. "Ik wants weten dat." And as Lulu defied, "that I say
not," ohrfeigte them. "This is common," went on Lulu. "What is common?"
The mother brought her almost to the waist. "What is common? You,
you!" A deep testator, a breath after röchelndes rings, an unreliable
Umhertasten with the hands, and fell hard on the Lulu standing
beside her chair to the ground. Frightened jumped to the mother.
"Lulu! Child!" They tore the door and cried after Minna and water. The
girl brought the Desired astonished. "Is sick lady?" she asked, and
helped the mother, the powerless on the small Lederdivan
beds. "If you pray is meager," was the reply. "Lat is Füer dat nich
utgahn, do you?" And Minna looked after the fire, while Mrs.

Behn of recovering Lulu gently on the forehead and crown stressed.
"Deern, Deern," she said reproachful, but with soft, warm Herzenston.
"Wat'n Sak, Sak wat'n." From this hour, were mother and daughter
reconciled, were again found. XXII. Verlobungsfeierlichkeit The very
Therese had attacked. After a short, restless sleep, she was with a
heavy cough and slight chills awakens. Mrs. Caroline was very
worried.

Therese wanted to be up, because the aunt the other day alone in the
business would be, because the new first lady should be sent to The
next day. But the aunt suffered not that Therese left the bed. At
least she wanted to advance with the doctor. A child from the
neighborhood over like messengers for twenty penny wage, to get
this.

He came, and noted a pneumonia. Therese must under all circumstances
to stay in bed. Why not have been sent earlier. Even the sick should
not fall into the dark damp back room to stay. He took the other
rooms look and ordered the reburial in the best rooms. Untröstlich
wife Caroline was tormented and Therese with a loud moaning.

The good-natured woman spared no sacrifice, but it was their
nature, all things to zoom in and about small inconveniences for
days to whine. "What do I start. How do we implement the furniture?
I can not.

I can not bear heavy cabinet." Therese reassured them that it would
help, no one to mute it, the heavy hand to the other cabinet Rooms
to bear.

"And when Frieda lets us sit now," wailed aunt continued. "What
should I start. All hands full thun, and no help." "Why should not
Miss Frieda come, dear aunt?" comforted the sick. "You make
you way too much unnecessary worry." "You speak well," strove to
Wittfoth. "You're lying quietly in bed. But I should get everything
ready. The kitchen is already out that I my eyes aus'n head in
shame. No piece is pure." Therese remained silent. They knew that
in those hours with the cumbersome woman was not talking. Of course,
everything went better than Mrs. Caroline thought. Father Beuthien
proved implementation of the furniture as a faithful husband and
helpers in need, and Miss Frieda met on time, a small black,
pale-addicted brunette, with facilities for obesity. Hermann, who
came to inquire how the family get-togethers the two Women get it,
shocked, to find Therese bedridden.

He came in the wake more often, and they had it last, that he sat
before her bed. It was never better, never happier hopeful than
when he was with her. She spoke with confidence of their early
recovery, and he supported them in this faith, although he was
very worried. He saw them lose weight, saw the little red dots on the
cheeks to enlarge stains.

He had secretly talked with the doctor, and had made him little
hope. The tuberculosis that were previously hidden geschlichen would
violently to the outbreak came, and it would probably soon come
to an end. Hermann aunt had nothing of his conversation with the
doctor said, because he knew enough to know that they can incomprehensible,
the sick feeling injurious outbursts would surrender. Mrs. Caroline
told about stories like sick. Had someone catches a cold, so she
knew absolutely tötlicher cases of degeneration of these to be
safe cold.

In a death case, reminded them that half a dozen others, and knew
the cause, course and end of each disease to the smallest can be
reported. Even cases of severe pneumonia, she had kind enough
experience to Therese the pleasant prospect of potentially unfortunate
outcome of such suffering naive to open. Of course, Therese took her
case for not so serious. Through their business, through the introduction
of the new instructions and damsels in full made, they remained
in their deception.

"The cough must expend," she said. "We want you again rauskriegen. Be
quiet man." "If I just before the autumn, so that the beautiful
weather, I still enjoy it," said Therese, and their aunt promised,
nor the most beautiful days. Provisional they seemed on the go
and traveling this district grouchy cousins have left. Instead
of the heat of the dog days, a rain period dawned, as it so often
in the summer reduces Hamburg. Persistent westerly winds drove the
rain ever new masses of guilt. No day passed without rain. They
were unfriendly, almost autumnal days. Traurig saw Therese from her
camp herunterrauschen the rain against the windows crackle,
Application of the pavement in small glittering arches, beams and
drops. How happy they are when a ray of sunshine through the dreary
gray penetrated , on the wall of the Behnschen House herunterglitt,
hopped across the street to her into the room inside.

How would they like a piece of heaven, but they had to be by her bed
with the limited view of the pavement and the floor of the House
Behnschen satisfied. So it was that they were more often
employed with its residents, particularly with Lulu. How long had
they not seen Lulu. Whether they are still with Wilhelm Beuthien a
relationship had once claimed as Mimi. Therese could not believe it.
Mimi always exaggerated when they told.

Why Mimi probably never again look left. It was wrong. Whether they
had become proud? How would they like to do something it belongs.
Hermann but seemed better than the pain that Mimi he added, to
come across as they had believed. Maybe it was not deep, genuine
passion for him. Whether he is such a capable überhaupt was? Not a
moment she doubted it. Thöricht As it was Mimi, Hermann is not recorded.
But it is a good thing. He would serve as a fiancé Mimis not much
time left for them now have had. How happy Therese on his next
comment, to which they could safely reckon. He never forgot them, and
they probably felt it was genuine participation, which led him to her,
not cold sense of duty. That made them happy. She had part of his
heart.

But sometimes secretly feared her when she was again gesundet, his
compassion is no longer needed, it could all be different again.
And sometimes, but rarely, very rarely, it was the fear: if you die
now? But only as a fleeting shadow flits the image of death through
their thoughts. Your Hoffnungsfreudigkeit was not to upset, and
it was fortunate
that no carelessness Caroline atmosphere was gloomy.

The aunt was also far too much with herself.

Never had so much to thun had, as now, because Therese had to lie
in bed.

"The Hausthür to ring just once a day," she said, to indicate that the
shop bell did not come to silence. "My legs, my legs! Even a day longer,
and I'm ready." "Well, to me is yes Located not much, "she
added frequently. Fräulein Frieda was very unanstellig and
inexperienced. It was, of course, "the worst that we would get can
be used for nothing, not even for peeling potatoes."
Afterwards, however, having taken a husband, according as
the custom of the time required, together with him she took a vow of
virginity.

Reply Obj. 1: Because it seemed to be forbidden by the law not to
take the necessary steps for leaving a posterity on earth, therefore
the Mother of God did not vow virginity absolutely, but under the
condition that it were pleasing to God. When, however, she knew that
it was acceptable to God, she made the vow absolute, before the
angel's Annunciation.

Reply Obj. 2: Just as the fulness of grace was in Christ perfectly,
yet some beginning of the fulness preceded in His Mother; so also the
observance of the counsels, which is an effect of God's grace, began
its perfection in Christ, but was begun after a fashion in His Virgin
Mother.

Reply Obj. 3: These words of the Apostle are to be understood of
those who vow chastity absolutely. Christ's Mother did not do this
until she was espoused to Joseph. After her espousals, however, by
their common consent she took a vow of virginity together with her
spouse.
_______________________

QUESTION 29

OF THE ESPOUSALS OF THE MOTHER OF GOD
(In Two Articles)

We now consider the espousals of God's Mother: concerning which two
points arise for inquiry:

(1) Whether Christ should have been born of an espoused virgin?

(2) Whether there was true marriage between our Lord's Mother and
Joseph?
_______________________

FIRST ARTICLE [III, Q. 29, Art. 1]

Whether Christ Should Have Been Born of an Espoused Virgin?

Objection 1: It would seem that Christ should not have been born of
an espoused virgin. For espousals are ordered to carnal intercourse.
But our Lord's Mother never wished to have carnal intercourse with
her husband; because this would be derogatory to the virginity of her
mind. Therefore she should not have been espoused.

Obj. 2: Further, that Christ was born of a virgin was miraculous,
whence Augustine says (Ep. ad Volus. cxxxvii): "This same power of
God brought forth the infant's limbs out of the virginal womb of His
inviolate Mother, by which in the vigor of manhood He passed through
the closed doors. Tweak your Zwack and her naughty tickling and
incentives to sin, every hour day and night, is terribly. I open
the window, and through their magic comes to me before, when the
bursting of the birds singing in the flowering cherry tree under my
window of obscenity. I will by some forms of the bark of trees and
challenged by it, yes, by some lines of the mountains to parts of
the Corporis femini recalls.

It is a terrible storm run malevolent, malicious and ugly demons,
which I, despite all the prayers and castigation over to me. The
whole of nature, I say unto you with horror, roars, thunders rustled
and sometimes in front of my startled ears, a huge phallic song,
which she, like me, despite all balk am forced to believe, the
pathetic, small, wooden idols of the shepherd tribute . All this
raises of course, "Francesco had continued," my restlessness
and Gewissensnot, more so as I see it as my duty to acknowledge,
against Pestherd at the top of the Alp as a fighter to the battle
field to be drawn. It is still not the worst part of my confession.
Worse is: even in the unique requirements of my profession has, with
an almost hellish sweet, somewhat like a allesverwirrendes, indelible
poison mixed.

I'm first with a pure and holy violence by the words of Jesus to the
lost sheep and the shepherd who leaves the flock to it from the
inaccessible rocks back, been taken. But now I doubt whether such a
plan still in the old purity exists. She has participated in passionate
zeal increased.

I awoke in the night, the face bathed in tears, and everything
dissolves whether the lost souls up there, with me sobbing in sympathy.
But when I say, lost souls, it is perhaps the point where a sharp
cut with the lie of the truth must be separated.

Namely, the sinful soul Scarabotas and his sister is in front of
my eyes solely by the picture of their fruit of sin, that is her
daughter, received. I wonder whether the request is not illegal for
her the cause of my seemingly welcome zeal, and whether I'm
right and do not in danger of eternal death run, if I seem to welcome
my work will continue. "Most seriously, but smiling a few times, had
the old, the world experienced the pedantic priest confession
belongs to the youth.

This was Francis, as he knew him , with his faithful, outer and inner
sense of order and his need for clearer accuracy and cleanliness. He
said: "Francesco, fear not. Schreiter just continue your way as you
it always did well. It may not surprise you when the evil
machinations of the enemy just then most powerful and most dangerous
point, if you are going, even though his victim once again safe to
snatch.

"In liberated mood Francesco came from the parish house to the streets
of the small Ligornetto place out in his first youth verlebt
had. It is a village which, on a broad fairly flat valley floor
located, surrounded by fertile fields, in which more than vegetables
and fruit-stems the grapes, dark strands festgedrehten same, from
Mulberry to Mulberry loops over and over.

Again, this situation is the huge rugged Monte Generoso dominated
here, in its west side, from its broad base of majestic is visible.

It was around noon time, and Ligornetto was how it seemed in a state
of sleepy. Francesco was on his way from some unlikely gackernden
chickens, some children playing and at the end of the village by
a yapping dog welcome.

Here, at the end of the village was like a bolt, with the means of
a wealthy man's house, built out of his uncle, the buen retiro that
Vincenzo, the sculptor, now uninhabited, and as a kind of memorial
foundation in the possession of the canton of Ticino was transferred.

Francesco gradual stages to the abandoned and feral garden gave up
and then suddenly the resulting desire to, once the interior of the
house again.

Farmers living near people, old acquaintances, handed him the key. The
relationships that the young priest to art had been in his usual
position. His famous uncle had been dead about ten years and after
the date of the funeral Francesco had the rooms of the famous artists
are not home again.

He would not be able to say, making him at once to the visits of the
Empty House persuaded that he has usually only fleeting interest in
passing had considered. The uncle he was never more than a person
of respect, whose scope him with a strange, nothing significant thing
was. Francesco As the key turned in the lock and through the rusty
fishing creaky door entered the hallway, was it a shiver of quiet
before the dusty stillness to him down the stairway and from everywhere
in the open rooms opposite breathed.

Just right of the hallway was the late artist's library, which was
immediately recognize that this is a bildungseifriger man had lived.
In low cabinets found here, except Vasari, all the works of
Winckelmann, while the Italian Parnassus by the sonnets of Michelangelo,
by Dante, Petrarch, Tasso, and other Ariost was represented.

In specially built cabinets was a collection of drawings and etchings
placed another of medals of the Renaissance and all sorts of precious
rarities, including painting, Etruscan Tonvasen, and some other
antique bronze and marble were positioned in the room.

Here and there was a very nice sheet of Lionardo and Michelangelo
framed on the wall, about a male or female body nude represented. The
following small cabinet was even almost from top to bottom on three
of its walls filled with such objects.

From there, we came to a domed room, whose height ranged through several
floors and the top of its light received. Here, with Vincenzo
Modellierholz and chisel work, and the plaster casts of his best
creations filled in a crowded and silent this almost religious
assembly space. Cramped, yes, frightens, and before his Hall
steps are frightening, as it was with evil conscience Francesco
to arrive here and went out, actually the first time this and that
work of the uncle of view.

There was next to a statue of Michelangelo's Ghiberti to see. A Dante
was there, works, which were covered with Punktierungszeichen, since
one of the models increases in marble had. But these famous figures
have attracted the attention of the young priest not long hold.
Alongside them were the statues of three young girls set up, one of
the daughters of the Marquis of prejudice had been enough, by the
master in states portray completely naked for you. This was after
watching the youngest of the young ladies do not have twelve, the
second not more than fifteen, the third is not over seventeen years.
Francesco awoke only after the long slender body had even forgotten
considered.

That work contributed their nakedness does not like the Greeks, as a
natural nobility and likeness of the deity to show, but we felt it
as indiscretion from the alcove. Erstlich was a copy of the archetype
of those not in isolation and as such has remained quite recognizable:
this archetype and seemed to say: we are indecently exposed, and
against our will and our feeling of shame by brutal power acquittal
had been undressed. As Francesco awoke from his closet, knocked
his heart, and he looked frightened to all sides. He did not
bad, but he felt it as a sin, with such entities alone. He decided
to not get caught at the end to be as quickly as possible to go. But
when he reached the back door had inserts it instead to remove the
door handle from inside the castle and turned the key to still
around, so that it now contained in the spooky house of the dead
locked up, from no one could be surprised. Once this had happened, he
went before the gipserne frustration of the three Graces back.
Here he was soon by his heart was beating more strongly, a bleach and
scrub to madness. He felt the compulsion, the oldest among
the Marche senses, as if they live on the hair to stroke. Although
this action is obvious and his own ruling on insanity grazed, she
was still somewhat priestly. But the second Marchesina had to already
have a pet on the shoulder and arm have fallen a full shoulder and
a full arm, in a soft and gentle hand ends.

Soon Francesco was in the third, the recent Marchesina, through greater
tenderness, and finally by any "criminal kiss under the left breast
to the confused and bewildered contrite sinner become the feast was
not better, than that Adam, the voice of the Lord heard it after
the apple of knowledge was lost. He fled. He ran like a rush, like
this. * * * * * The following days were spent partly in Francesco
churches with prayer, sometimes in his parish house with castigation.
His contrition and remorse was overwhelming.

With a fervor of devotion, as he had not previously known, he had
hoped at the end of the temptations of the flesh to be victorious.
After all, was the battle of good and evil principle in his
chest with unimaginable horrific losgebrochen so that it seemed as if
God and the Devil fight for the first time its place in his
chest had relocated.

Even the really irresponsible part of his life, sleep, gave the
young Klerikus no more peace,
because it is precisely this unguarded, night time Satan seemed
particularly welcome, seductive and perishable Gaukeleien in the
otherwise so-good innocence of the young soul anzurichten.

One night, in the morning, he knew not whether it is in sleep or
in the guards had happened, he saw the white light of the moon, the
three white figures of the beautiful daughters of the Marquis in
his room and his bed to come and look closer, he realized how each
magically with the image of the young shepherdess on the Alpe of
Santa Croce was merged.

Without doubt, was from the toy-like small property Scarabotas down
into the room of the priest, in the Alps through the window saw a
connection whose Hemp is not spun by angels was.

Francesco knew enough of the heavenly hierarchy and also enough of
that hellish to immediately see why this child mind was working.
Francis believed in witchcraft. Experienced in many branches of
scholastic science, he took part in that evil demons to some perishable
effects exert the influence of the stars capitalize.

He had learned to respect the body of one man to the celestial bodies,
the mind imagine him like angels, his will was ordered by God,
but God let it be that his fallen angels will distract from God, and
the kingdom of the demons take by alliance with such people
already seduced. Moreover, could a temporal, physical emotional, of
the infernal spirits utilized, often the cause of eternal perdition
to be a man.

In short, the young priest shook to the core of his bones and afraid
of the venomous bite of Diaboli, before the demons, after the smell
of blood, before the beast Behemoth and especially before Asmodeus, the
demon of fornication outstanding. He was initially not decide,
the brothers cursed the sin of witchcraft and sorcery priori.
Admittedly he an experience which he was suspected of humor. Every
day he took with holy zeal, and all religion is a means of
purification of its interior to make it from the image of the
shepherd girl to clean and again it was clearer, firmer and clearer
there.

What was that for a painting and an indestructible wooden table beneath
it, or what it was for a canvas that is neither water nor fire even
the slightest attack could. What this picture is everywhere vordrängte,
was sometimes the subject of his breast-feeding and astonished
observation. He read a book, and if it is the soft face, framed
by the peculiarly earthy reddish hair, with large dark eyes,
looking on one side saw as he scrolls down vorangeheftetes leaf
through the overcast and it should be hidden.

But it beat by each leaf, as if there would be none, as it is otherwise
by curtains, doors and walls in the house and also in the church
became. With such frightening and internal disputes, the young
priest went before impatience, as the date certain for the special
Mass on the summit of St. Agatha is not fast enough herbeikommen wanted.
He wished, as soon as possible, the assumed obligation to do so,
because he is perhaps the girl the mouth of hell princes could
snatch. He wanted even more: the girl again, but what he most coveted
was the liberation, which he certainly hoped, from his torment full
enchantment. Francesco ate little, took most of his waking nights, and
daily and careworn Bleicher he being in his community even more than
previously in the smell of an exemplary piety.

The morning was finally herbeigekommen in which the pastor poor sinners
in the Chapel had ordered that high on the Sugar Loaf of Sant
Agatha was located. The extremely arduous way up there was under two
hours back. Francesco came at the ninth hour, ready for passage to
the village square of Soana addition, refreshing and cheerful heart,
and the world with newborn eyes. We approached the beginning of
May, and one days it had begun, how delicious it was not to think,
but the young man had the same days of beauty have often experienced,
but without nature, just like today, like the Garden of Eden itself
To feel.

Today the paradise surrounded him. Women and girls were, how often,
to the mountain of clear water flowing over sarcophagus around and
greeted the priest with a loud call. Something in his attitude and
in its mines, to the freshness of the young festive day had the courage
to wash troughs. The skirts between their legs clamped so that the
brown with some calves and knees were visible, they
herabgebeugt, with the strong, also brown, bare arms wacker
working. Francesco joined the group approached. He was induced, all
sorts of kind words to say, none of which in a spiritual connection
with his office and stood by the good weather, good courage and a
hope for good wine years acted. For the first time, probably
by a visit to the house of his uncle, the sculptor, suggested that was
the young priest came, the ornamental frieze of the sarcophagus
to be assigned to a Bacchantenzuge consisted Satyr and jumping,
dancing and flute players from the Panthers pulled wagons of Dionysos
, crowned with grapes of the wine of God revealed.

It appeared to him at this moment is not strange that the older the
stone shell of death with life, exuberant shapes were covered.

The women and girls, some of which were of unusual beauty, talking
and laughing during this visit into, and temporarily came before
him as if he himself intoxicated by Mänaden would umjauchzt.

This second ascent of the mountain was natural, with the first
compared, such as a man with his eyes open against the other
kept blind from the womb is. Francesco had with compelling clarity
the feeling that he was seeing suddenly become. In this sense,
appeared to him the consideration of the sarcophagus certainly not
accidental, but deeply meaningful. Where was the dead man? Living
water of life filled the open stone dead and the shrine, and the
eternal resurrection was in the language of the ancients on the
surface of the marble promulgated. To understand the gospel. Admittedly,
this was a gospel, with the little that what he learned and taught
previously had stayed together. There was no way from the leaves of
a book and letters, but rather it came through the grass, herbs
and flowers from the earth or swollen with the light from the center
of the sun herabgeflossen. The whole of nature, an almost-speaking
life. The dead and mute was brisk, confidential, open and talkative.
Suddenly it seemed to the young priest to say everything what they had
hitherto concealed. He seemed to her favorite, her chosen one, to be
her son, whom she, as a mother, in the sacred secret of her love
and motherhood inaugurated.
Consequently she required instruction in this
matter.

Reply Obj. 3: The spiritual conception of Christ through faith is
preceded by the preaching of the faith, for as much as "faith is by
hearing" (Rom. 10:17). Yet man does not know for certain thereby that
he has grace; but he does know that the faith, which he has received,
is true.
_______________________

SECOND ARTICLE [III, Q. 30, Art. 2]

Whether the annunciation should have been made by an angel to the
Blessed Virgin?

Objection 1: It would seem that the Annunciation should not have been
made by an angel to our Blessed Lady. For revelations to the highest
angels are made immediately by God, as Dionysius says (Coel. Hier.
vii). But the Mother of God is exalted above all the angels.
Therefore it seems that the mystery of the Incarnation should have
been announced to her by God immediately, and not by an angel.

His bluster and sounded fully schwelgerisch. His language could not be
überhört. Soon dull, sometimes bright herüberschlagend, sounded in
the eternal change the voice of saturation. Avalanche of
thunder broke Generoso gigantic shadow of the wall, and if it
was audible for Francesco, had the avalanche itself, with the silent
streams of snow debris, already in the bed of the Savaglia hinabgeschüttet.
Where is there anything in nature, not addressed in the transformation
of life and grasped without a soul was something that was not
a pressing desire is operated?

Word, writing, singing and driving cardiac blood was everywhere. , The
sun is not pleasant in a warm hand back between his shoulders? Not
hissed and did not move the leaves of the laurel and beech thickets
when he touched them in passing? Quoll no water anywhere and everywhere
signs, quietly chatting, the thread and knots rivulets of his writing?
Las not he, Francesco Vela, and read not fibrous roots of the
myriad large and small plants that, and it was not her secret, in
the myriad of flowers and flower chalices are represented?

Hands of the priest brought a tiny stone and thought it was shod with
reddish lichens: even a talking, painting, writing Wunderwelt, a
formal form, for everywhere in the picture looking picture of the
life force witness. And do not put the voices of the birds same
testimony, which are in infinitely delicate, invisible threads on the
hollows of the huge network Felstales like united? This audible mesh
network seemed sometimes for Francesco threads visible in a silver
gloss to convert, an inner fire and speaking fibrillate made. Was
it not in audible and visible forms made Undisclosed love and
happiness of nature?

And it was not delicious, as this tissue, as often as I want, or tore,
like flying a hurry, tireless Weber boat was repeatedly linked?

Where were the little feathered Weber? we saw them not, if not a little
bird mute and hurriedly changed its place: the smallest throats
poured everything they überjubelnde, widely-supporting language. quoll
Where everything, where everything was pulsing, both in him,
as around him, knew Francesco the place of death not auszumitteln.
He touched the trunk of a chestnut tree and felt like he juices from
the food itself empordrängte. He drank the air like a living
soul, and knew also that it was he breathing, and praise his own
soul owed. And she was not alone, from his throat and tongue a
talking tool made of the revelation? Francesco made before a
crowded, busy working anthill for a moment.

A tiny, little dormouse was the enigmatic creature almost entirely
from her slender frame has been prepared. The delicious voice,
little skeleton and in the warmth of the ant colony is lost, and
disappeared dormouse not the indestructibility of life, and had
not in their nature or force Bildnerdrang only wanted the new form?
The priest saw that this is not covered, but high above to turn brown
osprey Sant Agatha.

Their vibrant and feathered body wore the miracle of the blood, the
miracle of the pulsating heart of majestic delight through the room.
But who wants to recognize that the changing curves of their flight
on the blue silk of the sky a clear unmistakable letters signed,
their meaning and beauty closely with life and love was connected.
Francesco was not reasonable, as if it read to the birds calling.

And if they train with their flights wrote, it was also the power of
reading, not failed. Francesco imagined the far-sightedness of this
decision was winged fishermen. And he thought of the countless eyes
of the people, the birds, the mammals, insects and fish, with which
nature itself sees. With an ever deeper amazement he recognized them
in their infinite motherliness. They made sure that their children
nothing allmütterlichen area ungenossen remained: they were not alone
with the senses of eye, ear, smell, taste and emotion have been
gifted, but she had felt like Francesco, for The changing face of
countless eons, new meaning ready.

What was that for a huge vision, hearing, smelling, tasting and
feeling in the world! - And a whitish cloud stood over the
Fischadlern. It resembled a bright Lustgezelt. But they left her place
and was rapidly converted in the lively exchange. * * * *
* There were deep and mysterious forces which the priest Francesco
Star had razor. But the experience of this film was the
uneingestandenermaßen him happy fact that he spent four hours prior
to delicious saw a reunion with the poor herdsmen proscribed girls
are included. This awareness made him safe and well, as could the
so precious time is not fulfilled pass. Up there, yes, up there where
the small chapel stood on the osprey circled, expected him how he
felt fortunate to he had the angels envy.

It rose and rose, and the blessed zeal spurred him. What he had
planned up there, was certainly a kind of transfiguration
pourout about him and him in almost detached from the sky near
the eternal good shepherds make themselves immediately. "Sursum corda!
Sursum corda! "He spoke the greeting Francisci always to himself,
while the St. Agathe next to him in stages, the martyr, one of
the chapels was consecrated high and the death by the executioner hands
like a merry dance entgegengegangen was. And behind it and so
did the zealous Francesco climbing before, followed by a train
of holy women who love all the wonders on the festive summit wanted
to attend.

Maria itself gradually, with delicious dissolved, Ambrose lovely hair
and feet, well before the priest and his procession of the Blessed
Wives out so that under its view, under her breath, her soles under
the earth for all festively covered with flowers. »Invoco te!
invoco te! "Francesco breathed in is ecstatic," invoco te Benigna
nostra stella! "Without fatigue was the priest at the summit of
Mount Cone arrived, which was barely wider than the ground inside
the small house of God has required. He was still a narrow edge and
a narrow Vorplätzchen room, the middle of a young, still leaves
countless chestnut has been captured. A piece of the sky or a blue
robe of Mary appeared to the church hingestreut game, he had the blue
gentian around the sanctuary spread. Or you could also say that the
top of the mountain had just Azur in the sky
now.

The choirboy and the siblings Scarabota were already present and
had it under the chestnut easily made.

Francesco erbleichte, because his views were in vain, even if only
fleetingly, to the young shepherdess as this.

He took a rigorous but mine and opened with a big, rusty keys Kapellentür
without the disappointment and dismay the struggle of his soul to
remember. He came close in the church, where the choir boy immediately
behind the altar, some for the celebration of the exhibition
prepared. From a bottle was a little holy water in the parched basin
done in which the siblings now its hard and sinful fingers could
dive. You bekreuzigten and sprinkled himself and could be shy with
awe just behind the door on the knees. Meanwhile Francesco went,
driven by restlessness, again out into the open, where he met with
a sudden and deep shock, silent, after some Umherschreiten, somewhat
below the platform of the summit, the girl he was looking through
a starry sky bright blue gentian was dormant. - "Come in, I wait
for thee," cried the priest.

You stood up, seemed sluggish and looked at him under lowered lashes
with a quiet attention. It seemed to them in sweet softness softly
to smile, but only with the natural formation of the sweet mouth,
sweet with the blue glow of the delicate eyes and dimples full cheeks
connected.

At that moment came the fateful serious renovation and improvement of
the image, in which Francesco had cared for his soul. He saw a
childlike innocence Madonna full face, confusing its charm with
a very faint, painful bitterness was connected. The somewhat severe
redness of the cheeks, rested on a white, not brown skin from the
redness of the lips moist with the glowing embers of the pomegranate.

Each train in the music of this child's head was simultaneously sweet
and bitter, melancholy and serenity. In his view was shy retreat,
while a gentle request: neither with the severity of animal emotions,
but unconsciously blumen defective. Tracks the eyes and the mystery
of the fairy tale of the flower in to close it was like the whole
appearance of the girl a lot more beautiful and ripe fruit.

This principal, like Francesco with astonishment when noted, still
belonged to a child, unless the soul is expressed by only a certain
grapes term pointed to rising wealth exceeded the limit of the
child's age and the provision of woman reached out. The partly
erdfarbenbraune, some strands of lights marked by hair was in severe
crown to temple and forehead bound. Something serious, something
inside of gährender, edelreifer sleepiness seemed to lash niederzuziehen
of the girl and gave her eyes a moist, überdrängende tenderness.

But the music of the head beneath the ivory went in another neck on
whose eternal marks another sense express. With the shoulders of
the woman began. It was a woman of mature and juvenile abundance,
the abundance of almost bent and not to the child's head seemed
to belong.

The bare feet and strong tanned calves wore a fruitful abundance
of good, almost like the priest eyes, too heavy for them. This
was the main spirit hot mystery isishaften his body unconsciously
ahndevoll maximum quietly. But just about Francesco realized that
he had this head, and this almighty hopelessly body on death and life
was in ruins. What now but also the young man at the moment of reunion
with the original sin by God so hard polluted creature saw everything,
knew and felt, except that its lips twitched a little, so he could
not comment.

"What's your name anyway?" He asked only the sinless sin filled. The
shepherdess was called Agata, and did so with one voice, the
laughter Francesco as a paradisiacal Lachtaube eyes. "Can you
read and write?" He asked. They replied: "No!" "Do you know something
of the importance of the Holy Mass?" She looked at him and did not
respond. As he bade her in the church and went to kick himself
in front of her into it. Behind the altar, he helped the boy into
the chasuble, Francesco put the beret on the head, and the sacred
action could start: never had the young man is, as now, by a solemn
fervor, so pervaded felt.

He did it before, as if it allgütige of God until now would have
called his servant. The way priestly blessing, which he had traveled,
now seemed to him no more than a dry, inhaltlose and deceptive
Übereilung to be associated with the truly divine had nothing in
common. Now, however, was the divine hour, the holy time he arrived.
The love of Christ was like a rain of heavenly fire, in which he
stood, and all through the love of his own interior suddenly freed
and was inflames.

With infinite love widened his heart in the whole of creation and
it was with all the creatures in the same pulse delighted connected.
For this noise, which almost stunned him, broke the compassion with
every creature, broke the zeal for the Göttlichgute with doubled force
out, and he now believed only the holy mother church and their
service not to understand. He wanted to now with a completely different,
renewed zeal their servant. And how was it not the way, the ascent
to the summit, the secret opening, after which point he had asked
Agata. Your silence, before he himself had become mute, he meant,
and does not know it was common knowledge by revelation to them
both now was to befall. Was not the eternal mother of the epitome
of all the changes and he had not neglected and in the dark tappenden,
lost children of God to this supernatural summit attracted to them
the wonders of conversion of the Son, the eternal flesh and blood of
the deity to show? So the young man stood and lifted the cup, with
overflowing eyes, full of joyousness. It came before him as if he
himself would be to God. In this state of the elect, the sacred
tool, which he felt, he felt with the invisible celestial bodies
in all it grow into a feeling of joy and omnipotent, made him, as he
thought about the whole teeming Gezücht of churches and their Pfaffheit
infinitely raised.

You should see him, his eyes fixed on him in the dizzying height of
his altar, on which he stood, with amazement of reverence directed
upwards. Because he stood at the altar in a very different and higher
sense than Petri key holders, the Pope, after his election does.

Sticky ecstatic convulsions, he held the cup of Eucharistia and
conversions, as a symbol of the eternal God's newly pregnant body
of the whole creation in the vastness of space, where it seems
like a second sun shone brighter. And while it considers an eternity,
in reality, two or three seconds, stood charged with
the sacred, it came before him, as if the Sugarloaf Sant Agatha
from bottom to top with listening angels, saints and apostles would
be covered.

With almost more beautiful it seemed a dull timpani sound and a
beautifully dressed women Reigen, which, combined with Blumengewinden,
clearly visible through the walls around the small chapel moved.

It turned in the ecstatic frenzy of the sarcophagus Mänaden, danced
and hopped ziegenfüßigen the satyrs, some of which the wooden symbol
of fertility in Luchino Scarabota merry procession umhertrugen. *
* * * * The descent to Francesco Soana brought a brooding
disillusionment, as someone who the yeast from the last cup of
intoxication drunk.

The family was Scarabota after the fair davongegangen: brother, sister
and daughter were grateful farewell at the hand of the young priest
kissed. As he is now more and more into the depth increased, he was
just more and more of the suspicious state of his soul, in which Up
there he had read the fair. Also, the summit of Saint Agatha was
certainly some earlier a consecrated idol, pagan worship, which
makes it seem as above with the showers of the Holy Spirit had
taken, perhaps demonic influence that deposed theocracy, which had
led to Jesus Christ, whose power perishable but by the Creator
handlebars and the world still was admitted.

In Soana and arrived in his parsonage, had a sense, is a serious sin
guilty to have priests throughout the forefront, and so his fears
were so hard that he was still before lunch, the church entered
the wall with his housing was to read prayers in the meantime to
entrust the highest and possibly in his grace to clean. In a clearly
perceived helplessness he asked God, it attacks from the demons not
to extradite.

He felt very well, so he, as it's being attacked on all sorts of ways,
depending on his or einengten past, salutary boundaries expanding and
transforming in terrible ways. "I was a carefully grown,
small Gärtlein to your honor," said Francis to God.

"Well, it is drowned in a deluge, perhaps by the influences of the
planets rising and rising, and their endless floods I in a tiny boat
umhertreibe. Previously, I knew exactly my way. It was the same,
to your holy Church prefiguring their servants. Now I am more driven
than the goal that I and am sure of the way.

Give me, "Francesco begged," my past and my Tight security zones and
the evil angels, they like them cease their dangerous attacks
against your helpless servant to directed. Execute, O lead us not into
temptation. I'm too poor sinners climbed up in your service, do I
have in my circle festbeschränkten sacred obligations to do. "Francesco
prayers were no longer the former clarity and overview. He asked
for things which exclude each other. He was sometimes even
doubtful whether the power of passion, his request was, from heaven
or from another source. That means he knew not whether he is not about
the sky is basically a hellish good beg. It liked Christian
compassion and concern priestly arisen, if the siblings Scarabota
in his prayer scope. Behaved, but it is equally, if he fervently
fervent tears to the sky to save and sacrifice Agatas?

On this question the time being, he could still answer Yes,
because clearly the most powerful emotion Triebes, when he
again felt the girl was swarms in an entrepreneurial sensibility
for something infinity Pure transferred.
Therefore
the body of Christ was not formed of matter derived from Adam.

_On the contrary,_ The Apostle says (Heb. 2:16): "Nowhere doth
He"--that is, the Son of God--"take hold of the angels: but of the
seed of Abraham He taketh hold." But the seed of Abraham was derived
from Adam. Therefore Christ's body was formed of matter derived from
Adam.

_I answer that,_ Christ assumed human nature in order to cleanse it
of corruption. But human nature did not need to be cleansed save in
as far as it was soiled in its tainted origin whereby it was
descended from Adam. Therefore it was becoming that He should assume
flesh of matter derived from Adam, that the nature itself might be
healed by the assumption.

Reply Obj. 1: The second man, i.e. Christ, is said to be of heaven,
not indeed as to the matter from which His body was formed, but
either as to the virtue whereby it was formed; or even as to His very
Godhead. But as to matter, Christ's body was earthly, as Adam's body
was.

Reply Obj. 2: As stated above (Q. 29, A. 1, ad 2) the mystery of
Christ's Incarnation is miraculous, not as ordained to strengthen
faith, but as an article of faith. And therefore in the mystery of
the Incarnation we do not seek that which is most miraculous, as in
those miracles that are wrought for the confirmation of faith, but
what is most becoming to Divine wisdom, and most expedient to the
salvation of man, since this is what we seek in all matters of faith.

It may also be said that in the mystery of the Incarnation the
miracle is not only in reference to the matter of the conception, but
rather in respect of the manner of the conception and birth; inasmuch
as a virgin conceived and gave birth to God.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above (Q. 15, A. 1, ad 2), Christ's body was
in Adam in respect of a bodily substance--that is to say, that the
corporeal matter of Christ's body was derived from Adam: but it was
not there by reason of seminal virtue, because it was not conceived
from the seed of man. Thus it did not contract original sin, as
others who are descended from Adam by man's seed.
_______________________

SECOND ARTICLE [III, Q. 31, Art. 2]

Whether Christ Took Flesh of the Seed of David?

Objection 1: It would seem that Christ did not take flesh of the seed
of David. For Matthew, in tracing the genealogy of Christ, brings it
down to Joseph. But Joseph was not Christ's father, as shown above
(Q. 28, A. 1, ad 1, 2). Therefore it seems that Christ was not
descended from David.

Obj. 2: Further, Aaron was of the tribe of Levi, as related Ex. 6.
Now Mary the Mother of Christ is called the cousin of Elizabeth, who
was a daughter of Aaron, as is clear from Luke 1:5, 36. And we want
to fathom the salvation only in the ball's can be found. The
nothingness, the point the ball, All - Around the Cubus and the
ball the fastest way?

The grade was it? This is only the ball circle. Shipyard to continue
the strength and Richtungsell And parallel accesses to the ball, all
the top end is Dieweil it forgets itself in Anschaun seinerselbst
that creates victims urselbsteiner With Power: And urselbsteiner
positioning and students as nothing and All that adds to the round
... It comes in the room, the square's Dieweil not Always
When the center has, and puts in the time it does not continue:
He lacks the Allerwo'smittelort.

But we want to fathom the salvation only in the ball leaves what was
found.

Suh - Suh - the world is round, A dream, a Urakkord; Terce and Quint
from God's mouth, people seventh floor. Verse ball. - First basket. 1
thousand reasons dawid their counts on the fingers and thumb, the
same as hab 'I have never been found and are learned. 2 What it
does not see another eye it probably looks. - What you but dare to
trust it to others. 3 Behind the bush, where you sit, have also sat
andre Have the grass is pressed, the following morning is highlighted.
4 About Anger I'm gone, I the flowers bloom gesehn. Colored
perfume songs, sang, from the feel I get a Allunitas Wehner. But my
eye only sees my ear sounds: mixed choir of discord. 5 What I
learned in a piecemeal fashion segment of sin, it seems, but the
innocence circle hab I felt in the heart 6.

Stosst you at corners and ends, tears you to thistles and thorns,
bleeding from cut and blow - but the world is round. 7 did not so the
brain and heart to me, not hurt the arms and legs, würd 'then I
probably still say the world is round and well? 8th If I would not
be an ass, the thistle heads eaten, Würd' I probably say that their
thistle heads fresst?

9th, if not I still frässe stachlige thistle heads, I am talking of
pineapples you, my brothers in the long ears? 10th Can I prove
what I believe in the innermost heart, and I demonstrate faith in
schwänden floating around. 11 On the appearance in me [Eder and
angling and corners] I like rates and regulate it, but is about
being 12. inside and outside just bogus, jesters and fools houses,
inside me, outside it - but everyone is a fool.

Verse ball. - Second baskets. 13 reprints, I am not the creator,
like me analogon mention unborn, immortal - I am God in parallel
14. Yes and No and Maybe, point-Allkonzentrisch ball, the
ball fades into nothingness, swells All point to the 15. All the
same - "and yet you see it changing of?" Einfalt! learn from the
fact that it is tausendfalt _seht_ 16. »We speak of ball and
circle .... And all the angles and corners, lines, surfaces and
cubes? Weiser, you're crazy. «17 right crazy talk! This is just
moving, in their opinion that the truth crazy, that you have the
squared circle. 18 "So do you want us to square the circles Unendlicheck?
Will the crazy moving, making us the degrees crooked?" Gabbles 19th
and not back Turn! Schwindelt you on Earth? Depends on the day her
feet, she of the night on the head 20. "Do you us on the head so the
blood flows into our brains." Ah! since you're probably right, your
brain is in the way. Verse ball. - Third punnet 21. Wollt
'I's in prose dissected bräche the ball into shards; But in verses
annealed melt the parts at all. 22 baskets dutzendweis send wollt' I
tell you, my dear friend Humphrey, they would empty and learn. ....
But the audience also?

23rd weakness is their stomach, and soon the winding their intestines;
filling me too much and too fast, it goes undigested from 24. Esitatud
segment minds think only in segments, so I tamping the circle
into segments piecemeal. 25 . Did they heaped the ball in the skull
parts, Quirlt a happy hour chaos is probably the round. Verse
ball. - Fourth basket. 26 To himself, the point turns in the
eternal standstill, unmoving eternally whirling circle without a
break. 27 on the periphery revolves grenzlose wisdom of God, but the
mathematics slips on the axle is limited. 28 Everything,
everything is about: Point and area and body, God is everywhere -
in the middle between the man 29.

Maybe he might wander from the point of each peripheral point, he
returned to the center of circles as a man never returned. 30 So
the man creates ewiggetrennte borders ; adjacent the bridge, he is
behind, in front of him, from 31. Urgent restless then the grades
in the future, she returned sausend back from the past. 32
Is the grade geründet roll the ages; Is the straight grade, holpert
and stumbles time.

Verse ball. - Fifth basket 33. God is original, never go the same route
as he twice, never in the pendulum motion. 34 Moving from A to B, he
rushes forward into Allrund, Forward, always swung in a circle back
to A 35. Is the timid man from A to B gone, he stares into the void
of B, he flees back to A 36. But Not A look into
and he commutes back.

So - between nothing and nothing depends on it floating Reck 37.

But the degrees AB, the floating plaice in the ocean, Carries us
to East and West, to pay us to North and South 38.

Did the math saved us from imminent death, Keeps on driving us
starving plaice festgebannt 39. But Elle, the prison of our quadrieret
Or to Cubus forces - despite a circle segment 40. finite number of
people, God's infinite multitude; Cuts man is Stulle, adds them
to the body of God.

Verse ball. - Sixth baskets. 41 But the circle, what is he?
Square with numerous corners? No, it is often counted the square a
circle 42. Are we born in sin, measure our prison, between innocence
and Allschuld we count zagend the blame. 43 Between Nothing and
All, scrambling from Something to Something , rejected from nothing,
out of space.

Verse ball. - Seventh basket 44. But what _ist_ the circle? I
call this point the presumption of innocence, And in the dungeon
of guilt Christ the Savior District 45. Man of God, Symbolon:
finally - to infinity. - Innocence omniscience testified Something
from Nothing and All 46. Father Son Holy Spirit created with the
knowledge and want three symbols: point-spirit, ball father-son
circle. Emballage back 47. Hätt Since I myself wiedersprochen? The
Nothing, and All is without end; Now wärs interrupted by something,
but where you end and the beginning knows.

Almost me take the poor souls who is short of human foolishness.
Because they have, despite everything, counting only five fingers
on each hand. The youngest barely than the beginning, when the thumb
has been to your destination. Acknowledgment 48. Can they dawid
nothing, nothing I say dawid _Was_ I said to them - blame them, _wie_
I've said 49.

"About the bumpy pavement rasselt your Distichonkarren; intermediate
the axis Geächz langhin Hallet your Hüh. "50th" despicable hack any
verse the caesura into two verses. friend! Your Distichen
triplex quadruplex are built. "51st Lest it as accurate Distichen
my blueprint? Friends! if they are no Distichen? 52nd Yes they
lurch in Hipphopp, Two times two Rummeldumhälften, Greek, Gallic,
Germanic, unfortunately alliteriert. 53 hammer blows a dozen,
crackling sparks spray. rushes down the hammer, the glowing steel
kläppert 54.

Sekundieren on two sets of wrought Ambos Gesellen perfect.

Three of the four switches blow - fast with the steel into the bathroom.
II is progressing well the longing Brück by step from hill
to hill across the valley, from star to star, and the track lights
in their kick Weltenall. It is progressing, advancing on glowing
soles forever in the eternal space, Where timeless End and beginning
to roll, grind their train hem.

It progresses, progressing with your feet examined by Vollen
into empty nothingness; And where they step, sprout in the
darkness of the Burning Flowers light. And when they step in forever
emptying Urewige abundance aufquillt; Urewig beginning of the
end of the beginning of the end of desire slakes. How about the lengths
and the times from nowhere to Never Mag probably longing bridging
step from mountain to mountain across the valley.

Suh -- - Suh - a clay swells in me The ebbt and in space to Weltenfuge
Klang maze, To Urchoral unit. Ruh - Ruh - so sings the sound of soul
yearning song, How the seagull cries sturmentflohn The sea
herzieht; To howls of the storm the Brausesang, So roars the sea in
the ground, Des Weltenwütens death urge, Death alive sore. woe - woe
- a sound inside of me to surf ocean swells, all the
banks Qualrevier met with Bang cry. Till the silence once more the
abyss Mutterschooss opens up, And all life, all the suffering in
the death Redeem rests. scrummage In The quantity Urseiender Truth
To see Understanding The expectant clarity; small appearance in the
big "to be," When paying a lot of All-Ans targeted Remember.

Since Start indoors, outdoors, since the end - remember that inside the
outer would, learning called learning to know what is outside; Be
What now last from the beginning you are. The pursuit of unfinished
details, but the forward and backward forever. A Life hovering around
jerking flames; Folg all, they fall to the sun together. Folg one
who always smaller Nothing For it disappears.

Immerse there, you will always continue, you will stop without
you, so you have nothing in the universe fathoms. You like, Where
you ask Well answer acquire from one to the No To All probably die.
Magst count Magst swell, For Ceaseless striving.

To Death By God, to God through life. Inside and outside Remind
learning. But always Geflimmer From known stars. Knew Vorm The lesson
teaching, just see the life your own face. What was, What you forget
Say you remember. How old is the earliest memory jung - Always The
only track from his _deinem_. remembering inside And learning in
the Far; Here, there, the Urselbstein. For thy shalt thou's Interior
raise Inside circling the world. In thee into the outdoor life in a
deep chasm falls. From thee out - are always at the end; Up, down,
round ..... only walls. Oh would not wander outside, Where your
flickernd candle drips. not to mention recognition apprehension,
feeling not when your finger taps.

The mirror does not grow wings, And yet you see the world - in the
mirror. Trachte Oh no you expand! Sink into your affairs quietly down.
Let the outside appearance Do, climb out of the narrow world grave,
there would not sink to the depth - you can but in the all drown.
Woll 'not fathom the reasons why, and not traversed space and time,
only in the soul's you can find: The "Welteneng," the "world wide".
As arranged rubble of Chaos: The nothingness, the universe, the Yes,
never. All The ball is without end, nothing is in point no start. From
the inside to the outside turn you back to Innerstinnen out. The
world of being, the nothingness of the card, The Ipse, Tu - Allselbst
alone.

I. The human being is omniscient, but he is not. It sends the sun
her shining light out into the wide world round. The sun but it will
not be known, that she lit the universe. You look at yourself in the
world and asking zagend from star to star, and sees any Himmelsfern
One dark night urewige And nothing of all the shining splendor.
The sun sends the light-generating and longing looks in and finds it
not. II The human being is omniscient, he's dark and feels. In his
searching, he dug inside And will slowly piece by piece. And brighter
and will be brighter view, the his ego so completely tarnished.
And as the baby suckling the nurse Ipse Sun loves the glowing flame,
one urewige object that Tu. Thus the subject dies and finds the
peace. Omniscience I created by own death, I was, I am, I will - -
God. In the beginning was the Word. I. humility rises in itself into
billions Weltenaxen far. If so immeasurably small point in the puzzle
forever. Innenwärts the inner seas, Niederwärts the abyss, to
feelings, submerging in the emptiness of nothingness to endless throng.
inwards, kleinwärts, selbstwärts fall - When I first found the
magic word, can I drown myself - shrinking, dying, disappearing,
nothing, Entschwunden.

II Love it is clear from the emerging world allerfernste In the
distance, spreading her mantle over coverage of billions of stars. to
the last sphere of foreign outstrips the last light, Where the Full
and Empty: Kugellall point and nothing is true. humility, love, and
an addiction me what you unites the magic word, Urselbstein, and Yes
and No, basic purpose, core-shell, and here and there. The language.
When the language of man created in his sins wilderness, what his
work probably could be different because of his Jammers image,
because the longing for paradise And the Gottvertriebnen pain,
despite the fact will lend strength and consolation of Gottgebliebnen
Yes, what comes from God, returns to him.

Durchmisst the circle of sins. What is and was and is - it must be
everything, everything REASONS. Well, in the language of the man
has half the circle complete, but it shines on the track, The retrospective
ends with God. The greatest sins was the word, but also the heaviest
penalties; The exit furthest terminus, But the home first. Now
we examine the way back, since the word must appear to us. So we come
to the sham, for by my faith. Because what I mean, this is mine, And
I is bound to, and must also die with me, If we found you. And
the words torch burns bright, you can consume on the tribe; As you
get closer to the last stump loht The higher the flame. So we transform
the way there in the word sham irdscher clarity, Sun We lit the
light of the language Zur Sonne ewger truth. That's the ticket office
bright, That's it for us draw, that is the people curse and consolation
in the fact that error - think. That is the purpose of consistency,
our Buses sins: The sündgend we blame on the way to the guilt of
innocence can be found. It leads from the slip there is no way back
to pre-befahrnen tracks, we must note the forward slip by For His
show us the way. God grant that the torch lit ' , Until we come
to the goals, and that bright light of faith ', when the words slip
verglommen. III. Interior and exterior of the sphere alone, the
center is everywhere else, where you are because, ball-in, point
out you are. You ship in the sea of all ages from beginning to end,
forever Nothing further controls your ship's Curs. longing are you
looking from the bow to the island of nothingness arrival, behind you
- weltfern the island - is the Abfahrtsall. Sun sphere center
are you looking for the ball to cross - how the sphere abwich not,
nearing the center not to.

So from island to island your ship plowing the waves, coming from
Nirgendwoher, after controlling Nowhere. Always somewhere, never at
the end: at the beginning! Punktall unbrückbar pendulum and you
in a dungeon segment. Oh! furthest end of the closest interior,
closest to the start next outdoor center is only God. What turns you
on everything around an axis? Why it robs the point despicable his
heart right? center of the earth was their Innermost center? But
the North Pole from the South Pole remains forever he separated.
equator of the swing alone to the middle of the equator; Any Latitud
its center. All of her sitting on the shaft, fixed to the stems of
discord; But Allunitas floats freely around the center. So the boy
fastened the leash on the wind bird matches; of Woe wind from north,
east, south, or west, Weh 'he made all at the same time - he
will never nimmer of the dragon of the Dragon Lord of the
wind-free or bondage. Always the axis tiresome, tiresome Ipse
always take the ball center point, never the Eternally weave Tu.
only the finiteness of the Dragon Parcae leash But Scheer Atropos
cuts from them forever.

So tears from the stalk finally ripening apple; But Kerngehäus already
pushing up new stalks. From the infinity spindles dissolve
finite threads, but threads linked to an endless belt. Liess Atropos
thee freely, Atropos Dea Terrestris, ties you to other star at Altera
Atropos. Jupiter Discors the fool leaves his kite, and the mothers of
his depth weave bird wind band. Endchen to Endchen he linked to
the endless finitude leash But at the knotted Strickland believes
he finds the bird. So is the will always be the slave of the
will; never had the desire nor the will to the will of favor. Still,
the obedience waiver will want to, Mr. and slave of the slaves,
of slave and slave master.

Give and Take: the unit is separated into discord - Give and Take:
the multitude is united in harmony. But what I get from red Multitude!
Elle Hülfe with the discord of Auszumessen the Urselbst - truly a
piece of fools. Urselbsteiniges system hovers Knowing the Tu-round,
but the Ipsesegment draws from memory. Abgebröckelt of Urselbst
looks the part, even the home, Jupiter Discors fool stops at the node
finds the trick Flies number one on the second one, looking at the
third and fourth, in himself, finds it even researching the
multitude.

But this one is in many senses, the performance of the Tu - Crashes
the Ipse into nothingness, growing at the Ta All. Search yourself,
you find the human race, God and the world - and disappear into
nothingness. As the rays rooted ball of concord, The point is
denied And in the sphere affirmative. Escape yourself; the eternal
little jolt you stumped, Perhaps the many. It does not differ inside
or outside, in discord Pendulum sphere of points remain to you
an intermediate segment. Each: Point, Sphere: unites interior
and exterior, both: point, Sphere: Mitander are parallel, mitselbst,
and are one. - No Something: Or herself Klemmt's divergent between
nothing and all. "Grade from the truth lies, just follow your nose!"
But it is the nose on your face to me wrong.

So you go wrong, and you make a detour; Performs but any way is always
around in circles. Wherever you are going, just go forward, but
you always come from the other side back to the starting point.
So you see, how right way, that world was when he said: The thing is
always a contradiction. Being and not to the place where .... truly
not to be there Where you're not, you have to be just the place. After
all, how could you know that this thing is not at the point, are
you not yourself in the place where you do not find the thing.
But I _muss_ there not be, this thing is not to be seen.

But is seeing less about his present?
Therefore it seems that He should not have been conceived of a
woman.

Obj. 3: Further, those who are conceived of a woman contract a
certain uncleanness: as it is written (Job 25:4): "Can man be
justified compared with God? Or he that is born of a woman appear
clean?" But it was unbecoming that any uncleanness should be in
Christ: for He is the Wisdom of God, of whom it is written (Wis.
7:25) that "no defiled thing cometh into her." Therefore it does not
seem right that He should have taken flesh from a woman.

_On the contrary,_ It is written (Gal. 4:4): "God sent His Son, made
of a woman."

_I answer that,_ Although the Son of God could have taken flesh from
whatever matter He willed, it was nevertheless most becoming that He
should take flesh from a woman. First because in this way the entire
human nature was ennobled. Hence Augustine says (QQ. lxxxiii, qu.
11): "It was suitable that man's liberation should be made manifest
in both sexes. Consequently, since it behooved a man, being of the
nobler sex, to assume, it was becoming that the liberation of the
female sex should be manifested in that man being born of a woman."

Secondly, because thus the truth of the Incarnation is made evident.
Wherefore Ambrose says (De Incarn. vi): "Thou shalt find in Christ
many things both natural, and supernatural. In accordance with nature
He was within the womb," viz. of a woman's body: "but it was above
nature that a virgin should conceive and give birth: that thou
mightest believe that He was God, who was renewing nature; and that
He was man who, according to nature, was being born of a man." "With
so'n disease is dat ne egen Sak. Na, ik Wedde times came round." Dohn
Se dat "asked Caroline. "Ik sögg Se Unnerrock the rut." XXVII.
Two days later, two hearses at the corner of the average, a
first class, the other third. On the latter was already a simple
coffin, whose lid four wreaths were mounted side by side. The morning
sun spread its golden lights it. A hand sorgliche had sprinkled
fresh wreaths, and the drops were trembling like a flash of
diamonds on the leaves out of roses, the small spherical Immortellenblüten
and the dark green of the wreath thread. Two cabs form the
whole entourage.

The first ascended Wittfoth woman in deep mourning with tear eyes, the
handkerchief of finest Kammertuch, the pride of her underwear
treasure in his hand. After all trivial, what with her always in
the first row are used to overcome was the fault of their home care,
the effect of the transaction, which Choosing a mourning dresses,
crepe or whether Cachemire, and similar thoughts, was also the true,
sincere pain for her to break through.

She looked very miserable and Abgespannt, as they slowly, with
downcast eyes beaten the few steps to the car put back stroke, the
Miss Frieda opened. This is not in possession of a black dress, wore
Halbtrauer their winter Sunday light gray dress made of heavy wool,
and had only a black moiré apron is created, the wife Caroline
for this purpose in the last minute took apron box. " The people's
sake.

"The price tag was attached in the hurry forgot to remove."
make sure you know quite auf'n shop, Miss, "she whispered from the
cab out to the girl. "And when the woman with the petticoat comes, you
know it." The Wittfoth to the old Beuthien took place in a black
frock coat and high, Duff, already somewhat reddish shimmering Cylinder.
In the second cab drove Hermann alone. He had so willed, that's
not only one car followed. At the same time, he also aunt of a stone
from the heart, which are reluctant to dritt drove in a cab
would be. "That should never thun at 'its funeral," she said . "It
brings bad luck. Usually dies because one of the three. Always get
an even number, which is better." Hermann was in these sad hours longer
than usual that the weaknesses of his aunt to spare. Was it the message
by Therese death did not come unexpectedly, so she had shaken him
deeply. He had all his free time aunt made available and all the
preparations and arrangements for the funeral removed. Took him deep
on the morning of the day mourning the accidental discovery that
he is the heart of the deceased might have been closer than they
had to remember him.

But if there were any uncleanness therein, the
Word of God would not have been sullied thereby, for He is utterly
unchangeable. Wherefore Augustine says (Contra Quinque Haereses v):
"God saith, the Creator of man: What is it that troubles thee in My
Birth? I was not conceived by lustful desire. I made Myself a mother
of whom to be born. If the sun's rays can dry up the filth in the
drain, and yet not be defiled: much more can the Splendor of eternal
light cleanse whatever It shines upon, but Itself cannot be sullied."
_______________________

FIFTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 31, Art. 5]

Whether the Flesh of Christ Was Conceived of the Virgin's Purest
Blood?

The Cross Lord, full of expectation, which starting this adventure will
take his love, left his camp, dressed up pretty and went to his
ceremonial chamber, had to wait long before he pulled out of the
uncertainty, and walked with speed steps to restive and down. But when
the Welsh pointer at Augsburg in the City Hall lunchtime clock
pointed to eighteen, suddenly flew to the doors, it Vorgemach swept
through the tail of a silken robe, Mathilde came here with decency
and dignity and decorated as it appeared at the fest was. " You see
me here, "said she," in my true form.

I'm Wackermann Uhlfingers, the solid honorable knight, princess, whose
unhappy fate doubt you but is not hidden, I'm the miserable collapse
of his father's house and had escaped in your home, though in
poor shape, protection and security is found. "Then she told him their
history and it also failed with the furtiveness Bisamapfel not.
Konrad Graf was delighted, and thought no more that he was dying
sick, he invited on the following day all the guests again,
previously his gloom as early auseinandergescheucht had held public
engagement with his bride, and when applied Truchseß and now had
herumzählte, he found that no cover was too much.

Top joined the Knights from the Order left the Komterhof and performed
the wedding with great pomp. In this strange house proved to change
the busy Martha, Mrs. Gertrude, quite passive, as they guarded Miss
Matilde chamber and opening at the same stately dressed lady came
to light, her astonishment was so great that she fell backwards
from his chair, a leg ausrenkte frozen and remained paralyzed for
life.

[Illustration] [Illustration] The newlyweds verlebten the first year
at Augsburg. One day, when they are happy conversations sat
at the open window, the young countess said: "My dear heart Lord,
I am now no desire left, I adopted my Bisamapfel the wish fulfillment
of the third with joy.

Do you have a hidden but some concern in your heart, it's kund tut
mir, I want it to the mine and the moment you should be granted. "Graf
Konrad concluded his trusted wife in his arms and assured her, that
besides the continuation of his fortune for him nothing more desirable
on earth was. So the Bisamapfel lost in the eyes of his owner,
value, and they all kept it only for the grateful memory of the
godfather Nixe. [Illustration] Konrad Graf had a mother alive, on
their Wittum to Schwabeck lived. In your child love to kiss the
hand, wore the pious daughter big request, but the count always rejected
the pilgrimage to the mother apparently visible under a pretext
and was on a pleasure trip to a home he recently sent in Feudal
proposal of unfern Wackermann destroyed castle located; Mathilde
agreed gladly burned to the area again to visit, where they receive
their first youth verlebt had. They visited the ruins of his father's
apartment, beweinte the ashes of her parents, went to the fountain
mermaids and hoped that their presence would invite the nymph
to take it up versichtbaren.

Some stones fell into the well without the hoped effect, even the
sponge as a Bisamapfel light water bubble on top, and they had
to take the trouble, herauszufischen himself again. The nymph was
no longer to be seen. Come home, got a son wife Mathilde, beautiful
like a god boy, and the joy of the parents was so great that they
made him almost squeezing hot love, the mother did not let him in her
arms and peered every breath of the little innocent angel, though
the Count a wise nurse was hired, that of the Kindl One should
cultivate. But in the third night, because everything in the castle
of a wobble in joy celebration was buried deep sleep, the
mother also turned a gentle slumber, and when she awoke, was the
child from her arms away! Cried the frightened dismay Countess: "Amme,
where were you my child lying?" The nurse replied, "Noble woman, the
delicate Herrlein is in your arms."

Bed and room were anxiously searched, but found nothing except some
Blutströpflein on the floor of the chamber. As the nurse was inne,
they raised great cries: "Oh, that God and all the saints have mercy!
The werewolf has been present and has the child away. "The Countess
grämte about the loss of the Holden boys skinny and pale, and the
father was untröstbar. Although the werewolf belief in his heart, not
a mustard seed aufwog, so he settled yet from the chatter, since
it is the case in no way to explain knew übertäuben, desolate
comforted his wife, from complacency to him, who hated all the
sadness, the forced to accept a cheerful countenance.

[Illustration] The Schmerzenstilgerin, the most active time,
finally healed the mother's heart wound, as the loss of a second
son, was replaced. Boundless was the joy of the beautiful master's
heirs in the Count's palace, the Count bankettierte cheerful courage
with its neighbors around a day's journey, the joy went without a
cup from hand to hand, of host and guests to Türhüter around, on the
health of the Neugebornen. The anxious mother had the child not
to be erwehrte of sweet sleep, while it allowed its forces, but
because they finally meet the demands of nature had to give in,
she took the golden chain from the neck, umschlang so Knäbleins
of the body and fastened the other the end of it to her arms, and
blessed is the child of the Holy Cross, that the werewolf no
power nor authority wants to find out, and soon they attacked
an irresistible sleep. When she first morning beam aroused, o woe!
there was the sweet boy from her arms disappeared. In the first fright
she exclaimed as formerly, "nurse, where did you my child lying?" And
the nurse replied again: "Noble woman, the delicate Herrlein is in
your arms." Immediately after they saw the golden Kettlein that they
order the arm slung had found that a joint with a sharp steel
scissors entzweigeschnitten middle, and fell fainting in front of
horrified way. The nurse made noise in the home, the servants
rushed full consternation of guilt, and since Graf Konrad heard what
had happened, his heart was kindled by rage and zeal, he zückte his
knightly sword, meaning that the head nurse to divide. "Wicked woman,
"he thundered with a terrible
voice," I gave you no secret command, to stay awake all night and
no sight of the boy to use, so that if the monster would be him of
the sleeping mother wegzurauben you through your cries the House
made brisk, so we distributed the werewolf?

Sleep now, you Schläferin, the long sleep of death!

"The woman fell to the knees before him." Strict lord, "said she,"
for God's mercy, I implore you, me erwürget moment so shameful I
take to the grave with, my eyes have seen, and neither me nor the
behest abdringen wage should wofern they do not torture herauspreßt.

"The Count was amazed," what shameful, "he asked," have you seen
with the eyes, so black is that your tongue refuses, out of it? Dear
me confess without torture, what you been known as a faithful
servant. "" Sir, "the prostitute erseufzte," what drives you,
your misfortune to know? It's better that the terrible secret
at the same time with my corpse will be in verscharret the cool
grave.

"Through this speech Konrad Graf was just eager, to learn the secret,
he took the woman aside into his secret room, and by threats and
promises in place, she opened him what he would like to know überhoben
been.

"Your wife," said she, "ye know, sir, is a shameful witch, but she
loves you immensely and their love goes so far that they also lend
their child is not verschonet to derive a means to prepare their
beauty immutable to preserve. During the night, when all slept in
great security, they are presented as if they eingeschlummert, I
did the same, do not know why. Soon after, she called me by name,
but I do not watch it and began to snore and röcheln.

Since they are now perceived that I was firmly asleep, she sat in bed
in quickly, took the child, put it in the bosom, kissed it and
intimate lispelte to these words that I heard clearly: 'Son of love,
be a means I love your father to get going to your Brüderlein, little
innocence, that I made neunerlei herbs and your Knöchlein a powerful
potion ready, which I keep my beauty. " When she had said, drew a
Demantnadel, sharp as a dagger, from the hair, the child was such
a flight through the heart, let it bleed a little, and since there
is no longer zappelte, it's laid out in front, took the Bisamapfel
, muttered a few words about this, and since they cover abhob,
blazing it up a bright flame of fire, like a ton of bad luck that
the corpse in the little moments consumed.

Ash and Knöchlein collected carefully in a box and pushed it under the
Bettlade. Top cried with fearful voice, when they suddenly run out
of the sleep to 'nurse where my child have you lying? " And I
responded with fear and horror, their magic afraid: 'Fine woman,
the delicate Herrlein is in your arms. " There she began to
be quite dismal to sign and I ran out of the room under the license,
to call help. Behold, strict Lord, this is the course of the
shameful fact that you reveal your've pushed myself. Bin erbötig,
the truth of my statement by a glowing iron rod to confirm that I am
using bare hands to take the castle three times up and down. "Konrad
Knight hour as versteint was a long time no word arguments. After he
had gathered again, he said: "What's required of the fire test, your
words is the stamp of truth imposed, I's and feel's believable that
everything is as you say. Keep a dreadful secret in your heart tightly
and trust it never, not even if you confesses, I will drain
you a letter from the Bishop of Augsburg solve this sin that you should
not be attributed to, neither in this nor in that world.

Now I want to face are adjusted to come into the snake, probably because
you care that you, when I hug and comfort her opponent, the box with
the Totengebeinen under the Bettlade hervorziehet unnoticed and
such over to me. "[Illustration] With light clouds and the forehead
gaze of a stirred, but still steadfast man , he entered the chamber
of his wife, the Lord with their innocent eyes, though with hochbetrübter
soul, received in silence. My face was like an angel's face and
wiped the sight of this anger and wrath, of which his heart was
kindled, suddenly. The spirit of revenge and compassion softened
Bedauernis, he pressed the unhappy woman, and she überströmte his
robe with tears wehmutsvollen.

He comforted them, cost-friendly with her and sputete to the scene
of horror and dread to leave again soon. The nurse, however, had
designed what you ordered was delivered to the Count and the dreadful
secret bones container. It took a severe struggle in his heart,
before he decided to what to do with the supposed sorceress should do.
Finally, he was Council without spook and stir to discard them.

He sat on and rode gen Augsburg, but he did predict the caretaker
command: "When the countess after nine days hervorgehet from her
chamber, according to custom to bathe, bathroom as well let the heat
and locked the door from memory that they are in the Bath swelter
against extreme heat and not in life remain. "The janitor heard
this command with great distress and melancholy, because
everything Gesinde house loved the Countess Mathilde as a gentle
and good-natured mistress, but he dared not oppose the Knights open
up their mouths, because he's great seriousness
and zeal to exercise.

On the ninth day ordered Mathilde, to heat the bath.

When they reached the chamber hineintrat, shook the air about them
before the great heat, they wanted to resign, but a strong arm met
with violence down in the bathroom and immediately the door was
locked from the outside and sealed.

She called in vain for help, nobody heard the fire was only violent
angeschürt that the oven hochrot glowed like a kiln. [Illustration]
From these circumstances, the Countess erriet easily, which is to
proceed, she was burned to death, just shameful suspicion that they
felt marterte her soul more than a humiliating death.

They took advantage of the last moments of reflection, pulled a
silver needle from her hair and wrote so to the white wall of the
chamber these words: "you probably posturing, Konrad, I die at your
command willingly, but blameless."

Threw her top on a Ruhebettlein down their death struggle to begin.
But inevitably, the nature, at the time when evil comes Stündlein,
prevent its destruction. In the anxiety of the suffocating heat threw
the unfortunate dying back and forth, as it accounted for the
Bisamapfel, which she always wore at home, to Earth. Currently, she
grabbed him and cried: "O Nixe Pate is in your power to free me
from a schandbaren death and save my innocence!"

They hastily schrob the lid on, because of the increased Bisamapfel
showed a dense fog, which is throughout the chamber and spread the
Countess pleasant cooling granted that they have no fear and felt
more heat. The vapor cloud is collected into a shape, and Mathilde,
which are now no longer thought of dying, with unspeakable delight,
saw the lovely nymph in front of him, in her arms the infant with
a delicate Westerhemdlein pleased, and at the hands of the older
Herrlein, in the white wing dress with rose-colored belt loops.

"Welcome, dear Mathilde," spake the nymph them. "Well you that you have
read the third request, which you should grant the Bisamapfel, not
so frivolous as the first two have wasted! Here are the two
living witnesses of your innocence, which you have the black
defamation, under which virtually erlagtest you will be
triumphant. The Unst your life has been tilted to the fall, you
will henceforth Bisamapfel no desire to grant more, because from now
on you will remain nothing more to be desired. But the sad mystery
of your skills, I want you to solve. Know that the mother of thy
husband, the founder everything is sinking. This proud woman was
the marriage of her son stab a dagger into the heart, she knew no
different, as Konrad Graf had the nobility of his house by a low
marriage desecrated, it was a curse and malediction against him
and knew him no more for her son.

All of her senses and densities it was asked, to spoil you, though
the vigilance of your husband making this wicked has always controlled.
Nevertheless, it has succeeded, this one by a nurse hypocritical
to do so. With great promise, it has previously managed this woman,
your firstborn son asleep in thee from the poor to tear him like a
Hündlein to throw into the water. Fortunately, they chose the fountain
of my source rocks for this shameful, I received the boy with loving
arms and be used as a mother. Equally familiar to me as the second
son of my beloved Mathilde. This was your nurse trugvolle Prosecutor,
she persuaded the Count, you seist a sorceress, a flame from
the Bisamapfel whose secret you keep had to be careful, the boys had
eaten to their ash to prepare a potion. You pushed your husband
a vessel, with pigeons and stuffed chicken bones in the hand, which
he for the remnant of his children were recognized and command thee
in his absence in the bathwater to suffocate. Full repentance and
desire, this cruel command may still withdraw, now he hurries from
her Augsburg, whether you like it still holds guilty.

In a few hours you will be justified. "After the nymph ausgeredet
had turned it on the face of the countess, she kissed on the forehead,
and without a response to be expected, they are wrapped in thick
haze and disappeared.

The servants of the Counts were busy, however, the extinct fire boost.

And Isaac, Jacob, and Levi, and all
the others were in Abraham in such a way so as to be descended from
him, not only as to bodily substance, but also as to seminal virtue,
by which original sin is transmitted. Consequently, they all paid
tithes in Abraham, i.e. foreshadowed as needing to be healed by
Christ. And Christ alone was in Abraham in such a manner as to
descend from him, not by seminal virtue, but according to bodily
substance. Therefore He was not in Abraham so as to need to be
healed, but rather "as the balm with which the wound was to be
healed." Therefore He did not pay tithes in Abraham's loins.

Thus the answer to the first objection is made manifest.

Reply Obj. 2: Because the Blessed Virgin was conceived in original
sin, she was in Abraham as needing to be healed. Therefore she paid
tithes in him, as descending from him according to seminal virtue.
But this is not true of Christ's body, as stated above.

Reply Obj. 3: Christ's flesh is said to have been subject to sin,
according as it was in the patriarchs, by reason of the condition in
which it was in His forefathers, who paid the tithes: but not by
reason of its condition as actually in Christ, who did not pay the
tithes.

Reply Obj. 4: The levitical priesthood was handed down through carnal
origin: wherefore it was not less in Abraham than in Levi.
Consequently, since Abraham paid tithes to Melchisedech as to one
greater than he, it follows that the priesthood of Melchisedech,
inasmuch as he was a figure of Christ, was greater than that of Levi.
But the priesthood of Christ does not result from carnal origin, but
from spiritual grace. Therefore it is possible that a father pay
tithes to a priest, as the less to the greater, and yet his son, if
he be a bishop, is greater than that priest, not through carnal
origin, but through the spiritual grace which he has received from
Christ.
_______________________

QUESTION 32

OF THE ACTIVE PRINCIPLE IN CHRIST'S CONCEPTION
(In Four Articles)

We shall now consider the active principle in Christ's conception:
concerning which there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether the Holy Ghost was the active principle of Christ's
conception?

(2) Whether it can be said that Christ was conceived of the Holy
Ghost?

(3) Whether it can be said that the Holy Ghost is Christ's father
according to the flesh?

(4) Whether the Blessed Virgin cooperated actively in Christ's
conception?
_______________________

FIRST ARTICLE [III, Q. 32, Art. 1]

Whether the Accomplishment of Christ's Conception Should Be
Attributed to the Holy Ghost?

His shiny eyes, the cheerful countenance, the character of comfort
and plenty, the wavy, light hair locked, which is half under the
shade of the male ostrich feathers on their faces hidden
hat depressed, the fixed gear and noble decency of the man even liked
her well. For the first time they now felt the great distance
of the state in which a miserable fate they had moved from where she
was born, and this sentiment expressed more than the heavy water
buckets.

She went deep into the kitchen and back versalzte for the first time
all the broths, which it by the Wirtschafterin a hard reference
zuzog. Konrad Graf seemed merely for the pleasure to live, he not
liable and not a merry Freudengelag 'in the rich city, the traffic
with abundant Venediger had made. Soon there was a ring-racing, soon
became a sting on the racetrack, soon became a Ratswechsel or else a
brilliant ceremony, but it is not lacking in public series dances
at the Town Hall or on the markets and through all the streets,
where the nobles the citizen daughters golden finger maturity and
silken Towels honorable and good Schwänke too.

When the Fastnachtsmummereien began, seemed to wobble on the
highest pleasure to be increased. Miss Mathilde had not all of the
part, sat smoking in the kitchen and cried almost the languishing eye
sore, complaining about the stubbornness of fortune, which his crony
with the delights of life as electricity and overwhelmed the
Unbegünstigten happy every moment abgeizet. She had the Nixe
Bisamapfel the godfather of her three wishes to grant, nor in
possession.

Never did they request to take him to open his inner talent and to
experiment, now came to her that the first attempt to do so.

The Augsburg had Prince Maxens birth in honor of Emperor Friedrich
a wonderful banquet employed, which should last for three days, at
which they are much prelates, counts and gentlemen from the neighborhood
were invited. It was every day exposed to price a razor, and the evening
was the most beautiful virgins up to City Hall to continue with the
noble chivalry to dance, and this lasted until the morning light.
Knights Konrad lacked not, this fest. Mathilde had decided to take
this opportunity to be an adventure.

After the kitchen had numbers and everything in the house was quiet,
she went to her chamber, washed with soap, the fine sooty makeup
from the skin and had lilies and roses to hervorblühen. Then she
took the Bisamapfel on hand and wanted a new dress, so magnificent
and splendid it might be with all accessories. She opened the lid,
because quoll out a piece of silk fabric that is stretched and spread
and swept like a stream of water down on her lap, and when she's
quite besah that was a complete suit with all its little plaster, and
the dress suited her the body like a glove. They felt they intimate
heart joy, turned the magic apple in his hand three times around
and said, "The eyes, all the leaves in Ruh '!"

Immediately a deep sleep fell on the whole house Gesinde from the
watchful Wirtschafterin up to the Türhüter. Husch Fräulein
Mathilde was out the door, walked through the streets unseen, and
joined with the decency of a grace in the hall served as a dance. It
wondered about Maennig hold the shape of the Blessed Virgin, and at
the high Söller, the circle around the hall ran entstund a whispering
noise, as if the preacher in the pulpit says Amen. Some marveled at
the beauty of the unknown shape, the taste of the other clothes, still
others demanded to know who she was and from whence they came, though
not a neighbor the other side on this question could provide information.
Among the noble knights and gentlemen, the herzudrängten, the foreign
Virgin beäugeln to, Mr Cross was not the last. He is approaching
her and drew them to the punch on, they offered him modest hands and
danced to the admiration of beautiful. My feet seemed lighter
hardly touching the earth, the movement of the body but was so elegant
and casual, that they each eye raptured. Konrad knight came to her
not from the side and told her much beauty before it was to him
very important to know who the unknowns and where it was home to
them to pursue.

But here it was all in vain research, and most all questions, and
with much effort, he received only by her commitment to the
following day again to attend the dance. He imagined them to listen,
if they are all appropriate words should not, and found all the
servants on Lauer, auszukundschaften her apartment, because he
considered it for a Augsburgerin, the dance company but said they
belonged to friends of the Count. The morning had already
begun before they found the opportunity, to escape the knight and the
dance place to leave. As soon as she stepped out of the room,
turned the Bisamapfel three times in the hand and said little about
her: "Behind me night before my day, that nobody can see me like,"
and so came into her chamber, without the birds twilight of the
count, in all the roads and abflatterten they perceived. When they
closed their Zuhausekunft the silk dress in the ark, drew back
the dirty kitchen and gave clothes to her business, used to than
the rest of Gesinde which Mrs. Gertrude covenant with the key from
the beds bell rang, and harvested by the Wirtschafterin a little praise.
Never was the knight one days were as long as after the ball, his eyes
every hour a year. To Vesper time he is equipped to the ball, dressed
herself carefully than during the day before, and the three golden
rings, the old insignia of nobility, with this sparkling diamonds
on the hem of his neck.

He was the first on the playground of joy, mustered all come with the
sharp eye of the eagle eye and awaited with impatience the appearance
of its opposite Queen Ball. The evening star was already high on the
horizon heraufgerückt before time won the lady, on their board to go.
They wanted a different dress, of Atlas, including a pink gem jewelry,
so beautiful and splendid than the king daughters to take care of.
The show good Bisamapfel gave her what was in his assets, and the
suit exceeded their own expectations.

She wohlgemut her toilet, and with the help of the Talisman came
from mortal eye never noticed, then, where she was so eagerly
anticipated. She was more beautiful than the day before, and as they
cross the Lord saw her, he moved it back to the punch and came from
all batches, the beautiful couple rolls to see. [Illustration] After
completion of punch Konrad
Graf led the tired dancer under the pretext of refreshing to find
in a side chamber, said it in the language of a fine day before
Hofmann's how much flattering, such as a care-free to speak, of a
bride advertises.

The bashful maiden listened with pleasure to the knight, then they
talked even chastise thus: "What you me, noble knight, today and
yesterday foregoing, you probably like my heart, because I do not
think that your words with trüglichen talking to me.

But how can I be your wife, because your Lord with a cross and the
vows are done, you celibacy to keep your life?

"The knight replied seriously and honest:" You speak as a virtuous
and wise virgin, so I want to see your honest Question you order
now and solve your doubts. At the time, I came into the cross of the
Order, it was my brother William, heir of the stock, still alive,
but since the erbleicht, I Dispensation obtained, when the last
of my tribe connubial and to the Order to abdicate, it's like me.
I am confident, though, that you and no other to me from heaven
conjugal husband are accepted. To me now your hand is not Yours,
refuses our alliance does not distinguish when the bitter death.
"-" You probably remember, "returned Mathilde," that you arrive no
remorse; vorgetan and nachbedacht, the world has brought much harm .

I'm your stranger, you know not why I would stand and whether I did
at birth and the same assets, or whether a glimmer erborgter hides
your eyes only. A man of your stand is on, nothing frivolous
about promise, but also his commitment after aristocracy custom
unceasing to fulfill. "Konrad Knight hastily took her hand, pressed
it firmly to the heart and spoke with warm love," That I promise
Seel 'and bliss! If you, "he continued," the lowest man child wäret ,
I will keep you honest when my husband and you to bring high honor.

"plan he drew Demantring of great values from the finger, gave it to
the pledge of loyalty to her hand and said further:" So your suspicion
is not in my setzet commitment, so I invite you over three days
in my house where my friends of the prelates and men's status, other
honorable men modestly firm wants to attend our matchmaker. "Mathilde
refused from all of the forces, because it is the tenacity of his
views previously only wanted to test.

He was nevertheless not turned away, to seek their consent, and
she said neither yes nor no to.

Like the day before, retired from the company apart dawn of the dawn,
Mathilde disappeared, and the knight, which does not sleep in their
eyes was summoned early in the wake Wirtschafterin and gave her an
order to finish a magnificent banquet. [Illustration] [Illustration]
[Illustration] As Freund Hein, the fear of the skeleton with scythe,
palaces and straw huts passes through and everything he encounters,
and kill mercilessly mow so permeated banquet on the eve of Mrs.
Gertrude, the relentless battle with the fist knife armed, chicken and
duck pens and contributed Parzer than the poultry house of life and
death in their hands.

From her bare Würgestahl fell safely in dozens of residents, beating
for the last time scared the wings, and chickens and pigeons dämische
capons and bled beside the verbuhlten Puterhahn her life. Miss
Mathilde got so much to pluck, to brew and aufzuzäumen that they spent
the whole night the golden sleep deprived had, but watch them all
the trouble not because they knew that the high feast to ihrentwillen
has been done.

The banquet began, the cheerful host flew to come forward, and if
the Türhüter rings, he always mentioned, the bride was unknown at the
door, but it was opened, it was a prelate, a solemn matron or a
venerable face enters office. The guests were long together and
hesitated Truchseß nevertheless, the meals are provided. Konrad
Knight is still awaited on the beautiful bride, when she stayed too
long, he waved the secret annoyances Truchseß with the table to feed.
We sat down and found that a cover was too much, but nobody could
guess who the invitation of the host bid was spurned. From moment
to moment reduction in the cheerfulness of the host visible, it
was no longer in its violence, the gloom from his forehead to banish,
so he also had affair, forced hilarity by the guests to get in a
good mood.

Acidified soon leaven even the Süßteig the convivial pleasure, so
it went in the chamber board soon so quiet and serious as her corpse
for a meal. The violins, the jungle at night to dance should have
been away, and so ended this time in the festival and sang without
Komterhof Klang. The grumpy guests lost earlier than usual
and the Knights called for the solitude of his chamber.

He threw himself on the bed restlessly back and forth and with his
senses could not conceive what interpretation he failed to give
hope. The morning came, before he had one eye closed, the servants
came in, found their Lord with wild fantasies of
fighting, apparently from a severe fever attack.

It fell the whole house in dismay, the doctors run upstairs, stairs
down, wrote of long recipes, and in the pharmacy were all mortar
underway as to whether they should Frühmetten ring.

Seven days had Graf Konrad so emaciated by secret grief, that the roses
of his cheeks dahinwelkten, the fire of the eyes and verlosch
breath of life and it just floated between his lips like a light
morning mist in the valley, to the smallest gust of wind waits him
to drift.

Miss Mathilde had accurate clientele of everything in the house
was experiencing. It was not stubbornness that they had not accepted
the invitation. The part she wanted to examine constancy of
the Knight, she found some concerns that the recent Bisamapfel
desire abzunötigen, because as a bride, she said, its quite a new
suit, and Ms. Pate had advised her, with their wishes rätlich deal.
However, it was the day of the banquet even hurt about the
heart, she sat in a corner and wept bitterly.

The disease of the knight disturbed them more, and as they heard the
danger in which he was, she was untröstbar. [Illustration] The
seventh day after the acquittal should the doctors decide life
or death. Mathilde was their habit at an early morning Wirtschafterin
to working with her on the kitchen slips Council to hold, but Mrs.
Gertrude was so amended, except that they have on the most common
things do not reflect, nor the choice of food could arrange, such
as large tears the drop of a roof gutter over the rolled leather
cheeks: 'Ah, Mathilde, "she sobbed," we will be here soon
ausgewirtschaftet have our good Lord will not survive the day.

"It was a sad message indeed! the lady thought umzusinken against
terror, but they soon took courage and said, "Verzaget not involved
in the life of our Lord, he will not die, but healthy, and I did
today 'night a good dream." The old man was a living dream book,
made hunting in any dream of the house servants, and where
they have a habhaft could always put it is that the fulfillment
of their hours, because the graceful with her dreams focused on
Hader, bicker and Scheltworte.

"Say to your dream," she said, "that I ausdeute him." "I was," gegenredete
Mathilde, "as if I was still at home with my Mütterlein, which
took me aside and taught me the Süpplein of neunerlei herbs to cook,
the helps for all disease, so someone just three of them enjoy spoon.

'Do these your Lord,' she said, 'and he will not die, but from students'
to be healthy.' "Mrs. Gertrude höchlich be surprised about this dream,
all contained in this emblematic interpretation:" Your dream
is strange, " she said, "and not by chance. Set flight to your
Süpplein for breakfast, I will see if I have our Lord's interview
that he enjoys. "Konrad Ritter stood in quiet Hinbrüten, dull
and feeble, sent to his home and coveted, the sacrament of last rites
to empfahen, because, Ms. Gertrude to him, pulled him through
their common tongue from the contemplation of the four last things,
and tormented him with well-loquaciousness so much that he, in order
to prevent their going to be promised, what they coveted. Meanwhile
Mathilde prepared a lovely soup, did all sorts of burned herbs and
delicious seasoning, and when she causes, she laid the Demantring what
the Knights to their pledge of loyalty had given into the shell and
the servant was applied. [Illustration] [Illustration ] The
patient was afraid of the loud eloquence Wirtschafterin to him
still in his ears gellte so much that he forced a spoonful of soup
to take. When he went to the ground, he noticed a body, he herausfischte
and to his astonishment found the Demantring. At once his eye
shone again full of life and youth fire and emptied it with visible
Eßlust the whole bowl, to the great joy of Mrs. Gertrude and wait
Gesinde. All the soup wrote the extraordinary healing power of the
ring of knights had no notice of the bystanders leave. Top he
turned to Mrs. Gertrude and said, "Who has prepared this meal, which
wohltut me, my strength and invigorates me back to life calls?"
The Old careful wished that the revived sick now keep quiet and
not talk too much wants, so she said: 'Do not worry about strict Junker,
who has prepared the Süpplein, probably you and us, that the salutary
effect it has produced, of which we hoped. "By this answer, but the
knight was not sufficient; he bestund with Ernst at answering his
question, to which the issuer that decision was: "It Serve a young
prostitute in the kitchen, called the Gypsy, all powers of herbs
and plant expert who has the Süpplein prepared, which you so well
is doing. "-" Does it immediately to me, "said the knight," that I
thank you for this panacea of life. "-" Verzeihet, "replied the
housekeeper," her appearance would make you pain, it is similar to
shape of a barn owl, has a hump on his back, is pleased with dirty
clothes and her face and hands with soot and ash. "-" Do according
to my command, "decided the count," and hesitates not a moment.

"Women's Gertrud obeyed, Mathilden hastily summoned from the kitchen
to himself, threw her a Regentuch on which she used to wear when
they went to the fair and led them into this surface in the hospital
room. The Knight coveted that anyone should be removed, and
the door when he had called to do, he said: "Mägdlein, I freely confess,
how did you come to the rings that I've found in the shell, you
burned my breakfast have prepared?

"-" Noble knight, "replied the lady modest and decent," the ring I
have of you, your begabtet me on the second evening of joy series;
see now whether my shape and origin deserves that you so worn,
you wanted as you fall into the grave. Your state wailed me why I
no longer dwells, you made the mistake to draw.

"[Illustration] [Illustration] One such surprise was Konrad Graf
not provide, he was shocked and silent for some moments.

But the shape of the beautiful dancer floated
before him again soon, and he declined on the idea that it is a
pious fraud of his intention to heal, but the true ring, which he
had received, let assume that the unknowns in any way the game ought
to be, so he's important that the prostitute and auszuforschen in
the speech to begin. »Are you the hold maiden," said he, "what I
have Blessed my hand, so no doubt that I will fulfill faithfully
pledge, but careful you, cheat on me.

Könnet your shape again assume that your vorloget me two nights in
a row on the dance space, könnet your body slim and Euern just make
like a young fir, könnet the schabige your skin shed like the snake
and your change color like the chameleon, it should the word, which
I, was the ring when I was by myself, Yes and Amen to.

Könnet But these conditions are not met, so I want you to punish an
impostor leave until you tell me how you this ring is the attention
coming.

"Then rings the lord of the cross Wirtschafterin and gave her
the command:" Reflecting on this girl their board that they can dress
in neat, harret at the door until it is published, I expect your voice
in the chamber. "Mrs. Gertrude took her prisoner in detailed oversight,
without actually knowing where the command of their Lord
had meant. In the climb she asked: "Did you dress, to decorate
yourself, why have you forsaken me's hide? Gebricht but it's
you, then follow me to my chamber, I will lend you as much as you
need.

"Then she described her old-fashioned clothes, which it half a century
ago conquests had made piece with a piece of joyful memory back to the
former times.
Objection 1: It would seem that Christ's body was not formed in the
first instant of its conception. For it is written (John 2:20):
"Six-and-forty years was this Temple in building"; on which words
Augustine comments as follows (De Trin. iv): "This number applies
manifestly to the perfection of our Lord's body." He says, further
(QQ. lxxxiii, qu. 56): "It is not without reason that the Temple,
which was a type of His body, is said to have been forty-six years in
building: so that as many years as it took to build the Temple, in so
many days was our Lord's body perfected." Therefore Christ's body was
not perfectly formed in the first instant of its conception.

Obj. 2: Further, there was need of local movement for the formation
of Christ's body in order that the purest blood of the Virgin's body
might be brought where generation might aptly take place. Now, no
body can be moved locally in an instant: since the time taken in
movement is divided according to the division of the thing moved, as
is proved _Phys._ vi. Therefore Christ's body was not formed in an
instant.

Obj. 3: Further, Christ's body was formed of the purest blood of the
Virgin, as stated above (Q. 31, A. 5). But that matter could not be
in the same instant both blood and flesh, because thus matter would
have been at the same time the subject of two forms. Therefore the
last instant in which it was blood was distinct from the first
instant in which it was flesh. But between any two instants there is
an interval of time. Therefore Christ's body was not formed in an
instant, but during a space of time.

Obj. 4: Further, as the augmentative power requires a fixed time for
its act, so also does the generative power: for both are natural
powers belonging to the vegetative soul. But Christ's body took a
fixed time to grow, like the bodies of other men: for it is written
(Luke 2:52) that He "advanced in wisdom and age." Therefore it seems
for the same reason that the formation of His body, since that, too,
belongs to the generative power, was not instantaneous, but took a
fixed time, like the bodies of other men.

_On the contrary,_ Gregory says (Moral. xviii): "As soon as the angel
announced it, as soon as the Spirit came down, the Word was in the
womb, within the womb the Word was made flesh."

_I answer that,_ In the conception of Christ's body three points may
be considered: first, the local movement of the blood to the place of
generation; secondly, the formation of the body from that matter;
thirdly, the development whereby it was brought to perfection of
quantity. "You could make a very anxious," said the baroness of Things
that are not far from me was, "You want our NATAS good at the end
of the Eternal Jew, or, God knows what else to do!"

A small elderly Lord, Professor T., the last few days is also
connected to our society and always cheerful, quiet, here and
there a little wine blissful, mitlebte had during our "comparative
anatomy", as he called it, still in front of and with art hingelächelt
finished his speed oval tin upside down between his fingers, that
they should be like a wheel was. "I can with my remark is no longer
kept behind the mountains," he finally broke off, "if you will
allow, be merciful, so I believe him not just for the Eternal Jew,
but for a very peculiar people.

As long as he was present, probably wanted to here and there in
me the idea to flash: "The thou hast seen, where it was?" But as if
by magic crept back those memories when he looked at me with a black
eye umherspringenden seized. "" So it was just me also - I also -
me also, "cried we all puzzled." Hm! he, hm! "laughed the
professor." Now it falls to me but from the eyes, such as
dandruff, that no one is the one I have twelve years ago in Stuttgart,
have seen. "" As you have seen him and in which conditions? "asked
the wife of Things eager blushed and half on too much zeal, they
had betrayed. The professor took a pinch, and knocked the
Jabot and began:" It may now be about twelve years, when I process
because of a few months in Stuttgart, zubrachte. I lived in one of the
first inns and there are usually fed in large society in the host
table. Once I arrived after a few days in which I had the room
have to be careful for the first time back to the table. They
spoke very eagerly about a certain Mr Barighi, who has been for some
time the lunch guests through his lively wit, by his dexterity in
all languages to delight in his praise were all unanimous, only
about his character, it was not quite agree, because a made him a
diplomat, the others to master a language, the third to a high
exiles, others to a spy.

The door was on, it was quiet, almost embarrassed, as loud as the
dispute has led to, I noticed that the discussion is introduced, and
saw - "" Well, I ask you! the same to us "-" the same to us since a
few days so maintains excellent. This would be just the way, nothing
supernatural, but you will hear next: Two days we have had Mr
Barighi so called himself the stranger, by his witty entertainment
the Table seasoned than us once the landlord of the inn broke:
'Gentlemen,' said the polite, be prepared for a delicious entertainment
that you will be given tomorrow, before, the Lord moved Oberjustizrat
rabbit hits from today and attracts tomorrow . ' "" We asked what
this had to mean, and an old gray head, which for many years the
top place in this inn claimed, shared with us the Schwank: Just
opposite the dining room resides an old bachelor, alone in a large
deserted house; Oberjustizrat he is out of service, lives with a
decent pension, should also possess a tremendous asset. ' "The same,
however, is a complete fool and has its own habits, such as that
he himself often large society , which is always quick hergeht.

He has twelve envelopes come from the inn, its wines, he has
in the basement, and one or the other of our Marko has the honor
to serve.

You think maybe he has all sorts of hungry or thirsty man to himself!
No way! old pedigree yellow leaves, each on a large cross, lie on
the chairs, the old codger is, however, so well, as if he would be
the funniest comrades, he speaks and laughs with them, and the thing
is so Greulich must be that we always need new waiter, because who
even at such a dinner was no longer in the desolate house.

"Yesterday was another dinner, and our new Franz swears there heaven
and earth, it brought no more soul over. The next day after the
banquet will be the second of Different Oberjustizrats. He leaves
early in the morning from the city and only returns back the next
morning, but not in his house, which by this time firmly locked and
sealed, but here in the inn. "Since then he is doing very strange
to people, which he all years of daily sees, feeds and provides for
lunch later on a window and sees his house across from top to
bottom. "Who owns the house over there?" He then asks the landlord.
"duties bends down and answered each of these:" The Lord Oberjustizrat
hares hit, Ew. Aufzuwarten excellence. " "But, Herr Professor, as
for you depends a great hit with our rabbit NATAS
together?"

"But you wish to wait, Mr.

Doctor," replied that "it will be the same as a light work out.
The bunny hits covered so the house and learns that it is the
Rabbits hit one., Ah!

same as in the Tübingen my time studying? " then he asks, tears on the
window, stretched out the powdered head and yells: "Ah - a - asentreffer,
Ha - a - asentreffer! 'Of course no one answered, but he then
says:" The old man would be me never forget when I'm not with him
einkehrte, 'takes hat and floor, closes his own house, and so it
remains. "" We all, "the professor went into his story continues,"
were very surprised about this weird appearance and looking forward
to the morning kinglike fun.

Mr. Barighi but took us a promise from him not wanting to
betray, by a delicious joke with the Oberjustizrat planned. "Sooner
than usual we gathered at the host table, and laid siege to the
window. An old, dilapidated Chaise was of two old Klepper
herangeschleppt the road, they stopped in front of the inn, which is
the hare hits, hit the hare, 'it sounded all mouth, and a very
special took hold of our happiness, when we slight the man powdered
with a steel-gray Röcklein appreciated, a powerful sea pipe in hand,
looked off. A tail of at least ten waiters joined him, so he came
into the dining room. "You gradually to table immediately, and I have
seldom laughed so much as back then, because with the largest claimed
sangfroid the old, straight road from Kassel to come and six days
in Frankfurt in Schwanhold pretty good to have lodges.

Even before the dessert Barighi had disappeared, because as the
Oberjustizrat up and also the other guests raised expectantly, he was
nowhere to be seen. "The Oberjustizrat turned to the window, we
all followed his example and watched him. The house seemed to
uninhabited and desolate, on the doorstep sproßte grass, the
blinds were closed, between some of the birds seemed to have built.,
A nice house over there, "began the old man on the landlord, who
is always in the third position behind he stood. , Who owns it ?'

--, The hare Oberjustizrat hits, Your Excellency aufzuwarten. ' "Oh,
that's probably the same person who studied with me?" he exclaimed.
Who would never forgive me if I did not do my presence known. "
He pulled up the window to: bunny hits - hares hit!

" he cried out with a hoarse voice .-- But who describes our horror,
as compared to the desolate house, which we knew wohlverschlossen
and locked, a window shop slowly opened, a window was up, and looked
out the Oberjustizrat teat hare hits in dressing gown and the
white cap, under which a few gray Löckchen hervorquollen so, just as
he used to wear at home. Except for the smallest wrinkle of the face
was pale compared to the same as the one who stood with us. But
terror seized us, when in a dressing gown with the same hoarse
voice of the street herüberrief: "What do you want, who you calling?

he! ', "Are you Mr. Oberjustizrat rabbit hit?" called on our
side, pale as death, with trembling voice, by throwing himself at
the window was quivering. "Who am I, 'shrieked the friendly
grinning and nodding his head, is something to command,'" I am he
indeed, 'cried the wistfully on our side, how is it possible? ", you
are wrong, Ester value!" cried over that. , You are the Thirteenth,
to get just a little over into my dwelling, that I will turn
around its neck, it does not hurt. " ', Waiters, stick and hat!"
cried the Oberjustizrat, matt until death, and the voice slipped
him in pitiful tones from the hollow chest up.

In my house, the devil and wants my soul, - enjoyed the evening,
gentlemen! " he added, he is friendly with a kipper turned to us and
then left the room. "What was that?" we asked ourselves. , Are we all
mad? "-" The Sleeping Rock still looked quite calmly to the
window, while our good old stiff Närrchen in steps on the road
increased. At the door he pulled a large key ring from his pocket,
locked - in the dressing gown was totally indifferent to him - locked
the heavy, creaking door and entered. "Now retired, the other from
the back window, we saw as ours to the door entgegenging. "Our host,
the ten waiters were all pale before the horror and trembled. ,
Gentlemen, 'said that "God is the poor rabbit hit mercifully,
because one of them was the incarnate." - We laughed, and the landlord
wanted bereden ourselves that it is a joke of Barighi was, but the
landlord assured that there was nobody in the house except to go
with the extremely artificial keys to the Council; Barighi was ten
minutes before the terrible has happened, still sat at the table,
how would he do in such a short time the deceptive mask can attract,
even assuming that he had the house to open foreign know?

The two were each other but Greulich so similar, that he, a neighbor
twenty years, would not the real may differ. But for God's sake,
gentlemen, you do not hear the terrible cries over there? "We jumped
to the window, terribly mournful voices sounded out across the desolate
home, and some times it was us, as we saw our old Oberjustizrat,
followed by his likeness in a dressing gown, at the window gone
hunting. But suddenly everything was quiet. "We looked at each
other, and the bolder suggested
hinüberzugehen! All agreed.

It moved across the street, the big house at the Old Bell House
sounded three times, but nobody wanted to hear, because we started
to gray, and we sent for the police and the locksmith, they broke
the door to the entire stream of drew the curious broad, silent
stairs, all the doors were locked, and a finally went on, in a
magnificent room was torn Oberjustizrat in steel colored Röcklein,
the delicate hair verzaust horrible, dead, strangles on the sofa.

"From Barighi has since been neither in Stuttgart, nor anywhere
else ever seen a track. "* * * * * THIRD CHAPTER. the court evening
shows.

(Fortsetzung.) The professor had his story ended, we sat a good
while silent and thinking. The long silence was me finally
embarrassed, I wanted the conversation back to a fan or other orbit
than me by a gentleman in the middle-aged rich hunting uniform, if
I am not mistaken, a top masters from the forest Nassauer, zuvorkam.

"It is probably all of us have encountered, that he had countless
times for others has been kept or even strangers for the whole Known
anredete, and weirdly, it is, I have this comment in my life many
times confirmed that the less confusion for those plates,
everyday, household faces than striking, actually interesting
happens.

"We wanted to claim as his very unlikely discarded, but he referred
to the interesting phenomenon of our NATAS. "Every one of us
confesses," he said, "that he thought the room, where, our friend,
only in another form here or there to have seen, and yet his
sharp forms, his area of sight, his winning smile made throughout
this , forever into the memory shape. "" They may not have it
so unjust, "said Flaßhof, a Prussian captain, on the punishment
of the arrest just two days out with us gezaudert had to Koblenz
in his return to garrison."

They might be right, I remember a post from the witty memoirs of the
Italian Count Gozzi, the whole of your assertion is talking about.
Anyone who says he has the Michele D'Agata knew and knows that he
is a foot smaller and at least two thick than I was, and is otherwise
not the slightest similarity in clothing and physiognomy with me had.

But for many years, I had almost daily annoyances, of singers, dancers,
violinists and Lichtputzern when Mr. Michele D'Agata angeredet
to be long and injunctions poor to pay, debts, etc. listen to them.
Rarely were they convinced me that I do not Michele D'Agata was.
Once I visited a lady in Verona, the Chamber of girls reported to
me: "Mr. Agata." I stepped into it and became as Michele D'Agata
welcomed and entertained, I went away and met a doctor whom I knew
well., Good evening, Mr. Agata, 'was his greeting, he passed by .--
I thought at the end almost itself, I was the Michele D'Agata.
"I knew thanks to the good captain, that he frightened us out
of the fantasies, the story of the professor had excited in us,
redeemed. The conversation flowed quietly continue, you are denied
the privilege of entire nations, an interesting perspective
to have cut through the influence of mind on the face of all and
especially to the eye, you finally came to Lavater and cohorts;
matters, which I discussed a hundred times , I no longer liked
ruminate, I pulled myself into a window.

Soon followed the professor to me then to see me like the faces of
the dispute ends to consider. "What a reckless people," he sighed,
"I have just warned them and the hell made them hot, yes, she ventured
into any corner to see more from fear that it would like
hervorgucken incarnate, and now they laugh again and make great
pranks, as if the tempter not always umherschleiche. "I had to laugh
about the mine office, which the professor was. "I have never seen
the talent of a beautiful Vesper preacher pointed at you," I
said, "but you see me in amazement by your bold attacks on the
evil and the world itself Argencard make sure because really, this
harmless NATAS. ... "" Harmless name it?

"broke me of the professor, fiercely touching my chest," harmless?
because you have not noticed, "he whispered quietly," that everything
was fine with this - Mr. computed plan is?

Oh, I know my people! "" They put me in amazement, how do you want? ""
Have you not noticed, "he continued eagerly," that formed the Forestry
Master Waiter there with his body and soul, because he five nights
through all the money abjagte and Ausgebeutelten yesterday night still
fifteen hundred ducats could win? abgefeimten He called the
player a man of the noblest sentiments and swear
to honor, he needed more than half again the stranger lose, otherwise
he had no peace.

Did not you also noticed how he has grained Ökonomierat?

"" I've probably seen, "I replied," that the economist, otherwise
moros and misanthropic, now is a little up, but I have the general
influence of the society ascribed. "" Protect.

He is already twenty years in the societies around and watched but not
limited to, on the way he is, a brother to be true song. The sick
donkey travels around the country, maintains a large worm in the
body to have, and makes everyone's life with his sour exorbitant
claims, and now?

Now it has this miracle man caught him there Pülverlein and advised
him, not like any other sensible doctor, diet and temperance, but he
aims his youth, as he almost fifty years of the old worm called, enjoyed
a lot of wine & c., and the _et cetera_ and the wine he used four
days worse than the prodigal son. "" And you can annoy, Professor?

"The man is the gift of life again -" "Not like this, I speak,"
said the zealous, "the old sinner could still leave my sake, but that
he is the next best entrusted Charlatans and thus ruin must. I met
him eight years ago had the cure, and it has noticeably
improved."

The zeal of the professor was somewhat understandable to me now,
the bread looked not envy indistinct out .-- "And our ladies," he
continued, "they are now purely toll.

I will take the poor Trübenau, I know him not, but tomorrow he will
be here arrive, and how he finds the madam? Did you ever heard
that a young educated woman in the early years of a happy
marriage in such a relationship with a very strange people discover,
within five days! "-" How ? the beautiful pale woman there, "cried I
.--" The same pale, "he replied," four days ago she was like a
beautiful red centifolia because of their interesting encounters
on the street, wondering where they go, hardly hear that they wanted
to buy _Rouge fin_ (such as toilet secrets auszuplaudern means
BONTON), so he asks and prays that she should hang up, but not red,
it did so interesting _je ne sais quoi_, with a pale complexion
is much better .

What you doing? indeed, it goes into the next Galanterieladen makeup
and looks white, I was just there to create a pipe to pipe only,
because I heard it with her sweet voice the Bears rauhhaarigen
servant of a shop ask if you do not know anything therischer have
ä ?

Get me a T -----! One has ever heard such a thing? "I sincerely regret
the professor, because if I am not mistaken, so he sought to draw
attention from the beginning of the beautiful woman on the somewhat
verschossenen Binding his erudite soul be considered.

That it but with NATAS and Trübenau was not quite true, I
saw the makeup itself from history that those so infuriated, I knew
nothing, but who is on the exegesis of the eyes to understand, had no
further comment necessary to the mutual approximation thereof should
be explained.

The professor was in deep thought, for a time been silent, he now
raised his eye through the glasses to the ceiling of the room, where
all sorts Engelein in plaster were applied.

"sky," he sighed , "and the Thing, he has
too.

You do not believe any stimulus in the eternally cheerful eye,
in these dimples on the cheeks blooming in the enamel of their
teeth, in this fresh, open lips to kiss, in those soft arms, in
this round, full forms of swelling -- "" Professor!

" I cried, alarmed about his ecstasy, and shook him by the arm back
to life.

"You are advised except, Ester value. Do not taste a pinch Spaniol?

"" He did it well, "he continued Zähneknirschen.

"Have you not noticed, what Did they previously asked about his
relationships and how they became red?

Young, beautiful, wealthy, widow, - it has everything to ensure a
pleasant lot to do.

Spirit of men of reputation in the literary world jostle to their
favor, it raises itself to a - vagrants out.

Oh, if you knew the best doctor, what I told the head waiter, but
with the greatest discretion, that it yesterday from her room at
night ...." "I ask that you spare me," I fell, "you confess I prefer
to wonder whether the man you are not yet brought the slipper. ""
That is precisely, "replied the wanted, embarrassed smile,"
that is what makes me worry. You know, I read about chemistry and
he once brought to the conversation and has developed such deep
knowledge covered so new and bold ideas that I am the head schwindelte.

I want him around the neck and falling to his books and notes, ask
and it pulls me with irresistible force ghost in sight, and
yet I could poison him with joy to teach. "How funny was the rage
of this man! He ballte the fist and drove so back and forth, his
green glasses sparkled like cat's eyes, his short, black hair shone
in the height direction.

I sought to mollify him. I put him before, so that he could not go
worse, when the stranger, the devil himself would be, but he let me
come to the words. "He is Satan himself lodges here in the three
imperial crowns," cried he, "for our souls to go fishing. Yes, you're
a good fisherman and have a fine nose, but a ---- r professor like
me, even in the demagogic investigations Lunte the same smell, and
especially so here traveled to Mainz is such a has a finer than
thou .

'A hoarse laugh, which is just behind my back seemed to arise, drew
my attention. I turned around and thought NATAS sneering through
the panes hereingrinsen to see.

I grabbed the Professor by the arm to give it the strange appearance
to show because the room was one floor high, but this had neither
heard the laughter, nor could he see my appearance, because when he
turned, saw only the pale disc of the moon through the window where I
distorted the face of Greulich mysterious stranger was believed
to be seen. Before I quite agree with me was whether what I saw, the
sense of fraud, Ausgeburt an excited imagination or reality was, the
door was torn open, and Lord of NATAS became proud step into the
room.

With visible smile but he measured the society as he knew very
well what he was talking, and I thought to note that none of his
present research could look bearable. By his own ease, he had the
opposite Trübenau, next the wife of Things, taken place and the
direction of the conversation itself is cracked. The evil
conscience let the professor does not sit at the table, myself
captivated the request, these people even from far away to observe
in my seat at the window.

Since because we noticed between the eyes of woman Trübenau and changed
the test of lovers who, by the daughter of the economist as much debt
to say knew that they even have the other up under the broad bosom
of Brussels lace Krause blushed, the feingeformte feet of wife of
Things to blankgewichsten his boots were dancing.
Obj. 2: Further, that which man has in the first instant of his
conception seems to be natural to him: for it is in this that his
natural generation is terminated. But we do not merit by what is
natural to us, as is clear from what has been said in the Second Part
(I-II, Q. 109, A. 5; Q. 114, A. 2). Therefore it seems that the use
of free-will, which Christ as man had in the first instant of His
conception, was not meritorious.

Obj. 3: Further, that which a man has once merited he makes, in a
way, his own: consequently it seems that he cannot merit the same
thing again: for no one merits what is already his. If, therefore,
Christ merited in the first instant of His conception, it follows
that afterwards He merited nothing. But this is evidently untrue.
Therefore Christ did not merit in the first instant of His conception.

_On the contrary,_ Augustine [*Paterius, Expos. Vet. et Nov. Test.
super Ex. 40] says: "Increase of merit was absolutely impossible to
the soul of Christ." But increase of merit would have been possible
had He not merited in the first instant of His conception. Therefore
Christ merited in the first instant of His conception.

_I answer that,_ As stated above (A. 1), Christ was sanctified by
grace in the first instant of His conception. Now, sanctification is
twofold: that of adults who are sanctified in consideration of their
own act; and that of infants who are sanctified in consideration of,
not their own act of faith, but that of their parents or of the
Church. The former sanctification is more perfect than the latter:
just as act is more perfect than habit; and "that which is by itself,
than that which is by another" [*Aristotle, _Phys._ viii]. And in
the old, delicious, by text and music so sweet ways, mixed from the
outside noise and merry sparrows from the close, moist ravines, the
cry of the sweetest nightingale. In those minutes was Francesco,
apparently in the service of Mary, the services of his idol
throughout abandoned.

Had the mothers and daughters Soanas guessed that in the eyes of the
priests formed a community, which he every day for the glorification
of this hated fruit of sin in the church moved, or a question to
full devotion to the sounds of the Virgin Mary singing to the
distance and high in the Rocky adhesive, small pasture to take up,
they would have stoned him safe, but then it seemed as growing with
each day before the astonished eyes of the whole community of the
young cleric piety. Gradually, was old and young, rich and poor,
in short everyone, from Sindaco to beggars, from the Church until
the matter in the holy noise Maien Francesco dragged along.

Even the long lonely roads, which he frequently undertook were in favor
of the young Holy designed. And they were only undertaken in the
hope that a random walk him once at such an opportunity Agata in
the litter may lead. Because he was until the next special Mass for
the family Scarabota in his shyness, to reveal a gap of more than
eight days, applied to him was now unbearably long. There is still
talked about the nature in that way open to him, the He began on
the way to Sant Agatha, at the height of the small shrine had
perceived.

Each blade of grass, every flower, every tree, every wine and
Epheublatt were only words of a from the ground of being
aufklingenden language which, even in the deepest silence, talked
with huge showers. Never had a music so pervaded his entire being
and, as he said, with the holy Spirit. * * * * * Francesco had the
deep, restful sleep nights its status. The mystical
wake-up call, and he had met seemed so to speak, the death killed
and his brother, sleep, have to be banished.

Each of these lives from anywhere swell nights throb of creation
was for Francesco young body to the holy revelation of time: it is
that it was sometimes felt as if he were the last veil of mystery
of the Godhead is felt.

Often when he read from dreams, which represented almost a guard, in
the sense of the guards transferred the case out of Soana twice
as loud, as swept on the day of the lunar eclipses of the powerful
divisions fought and black Gewölk, gigantic grumbling , the highest
peak of Generoso verdüsterte, Francesco shivering body of prayers,
fervently, as never before, and similarly, as when a thirsty tribe,
whose tops spring rain soaks in erschauert winds.

In this condition he rang full yearning with God, him in the holy miracle
of creation, as in the burning core of life, einzuweihen in this
Halloween, innermost Something that then permeates all existence. He
said: "From there, O my God almighty, penetrates your strongest light
of this in exhaustive never fire waves flowing core spreads all
delight of life and the mystery of the deepest desire.

Put me not a finished creation in the bosom, O God, but do me a
Contributor. Let me participate in your never interrupted Creation,
because only thus, and by nothing else, I can also participate your
paradise to be. "Undressed Francesco ran to the glow of his limbs to
cool in a room with wide-screen around and let the night air to
flood his body.

It occurred to him before, when the restless black storm on the giant
Felsrücken of Generoso, like a huge bull on a heel rests, rain snort
from his nostrils, Murr, shoot lightning from jerking düster flaming
eyes and practicing with panting flank the impressive work of fertility.
concepts like these were quite pagan in nature, and the priest knew
it, without that it troubled him now.

He was allbereits too much in the general anesthesia pressing spring
forces absorbed. The narcotic Broder, who met him, replaced the narrow
limits of his personality and extended it into the General. Everywhere
were the gods born in the early, dead nature. And even the depths of
soul Francesco tapped and sent pictures of things up in the abyss
of millions of years were absorbed. One night he had, in half
the states watching a serious and horrific nature of his dream of
him in a gruesome devotional sunken.

It was like witnessing a mystery to the strangeness of a terrible and
yet something like an ancient consecration, irresistible power
ausatmete. Somewhere hidden in the rocks of Monte Generoso
monasteries located seemed to be making up and down dangerous Steige
Felstreppchen resulted in inaccessible caves. This Felssteige klommen
part in a solemn, one behind the other, bearded men and old men in
brown habits down, but in the contemplation of their movements, as
well as in the reverie of their faces and were certainly looking
to pursue a terrible cult seemed doomed. This gigantic and almost
wild characters were in a manner oppressive venerable. They came down
hochaufgerichtet with huge feral, bushy heads, in which main and
beard hair mingled.

And this ruthless execution of a service animal and women were followed
after that only the mighty waves of her hair, as heavy, golden
or black coats were covered. During the terrible yoke of the shoot
down wordlessly rising dream hermits rigid and held prisoner
unconscious, had a humility about the women, even animals on victims
who are themselves a terrible deity offerings.

In the eyes of the monks were silent, unconscious anger, as if the
poisonous bite of a great beast, and they wounded them a madness
in the blood that had its frenzied outburst was to be expected.

On the foreheads of the women, devout, devout in their lower lashes
was a grand ceremony. Anachoreten finally had the Generoso, as living
idols, isolated in shallow caves in the cliff
by, and it started just as ugly as phallic sublime service.

How awful it was - and Francesco shocked at the deepest soul - it
certainly shows he was deadly serious in his fear and his holiness.

Powerful Owls revierten
with penetrating scream at the walls, the collapse of the waterfall
and the magical light of the moon, but the tremendous shouts of the
big night birds were from the heart bristling cries of pain overpowers
priestesses, to the agonies of lust dahinstarben. * * * * * The day
of worship for the poor, proscribed Sennhirten had finally come
again.

He was like already in the morning, when the priest Francesco Vela stood
up, not at all earlier, he had ever seen. So jump in the life of
every human preferred unexpected and uncalled days, as blinding
revelations on.

The young man had that morning no desire, neither a saint nor an
archangel, nor even a God to be.

Rather, it quietly beschlich fear saint, Archangel and would like
to thank the gods envy him to make enemies, because he came in this
morning about saints, angels and gods exalted before.

But on top of Sant Agatha waited its a disappointment. His idol, the
name of the saint wore, had from the church excluded.

From the pale priest asked, did the rough, just rough vertierte
father, vertierte lute, while the wife who was also his sister,
the daughter of working with domestic apologized.

This was the sacred function by Francesco on such an unsympathetic
manner, that he is at the end of the fair is not quite knowing
whether it had already begun.

Inside, he lived through Höllenpein, yes, those states which, a
real hell fall comparable him from making a poor damned.

After he Ministranten simultaneously with the siblings had Scarabota
dismissed, he still completely stunned to any side of the steep
cone downhill without a goal, nor any less aware of danger.

Again he heard shouts of nuptial circling osprey.

But it sounded to him like travesty
of deceptively brilliant herabschüttete ether.

In the rubble of a dry watercourse, he slipped from jumping and
panting while he confused prayers and curses whimpered.

He felt torments of jealousy.

Although not something further happened, except that the sinner by
Agatha anything on the Alpe of Santa Croce has been recorded,
it was the priest identified that a Buhler and possessed the stolen
church wicked time in his arms zubrachte. During her absence from
him in a day the size of his addiction came to consciousness, he
felt alternately fear, dismay and anger, the urge, to punish and
to rescue from their plight, that is contrary to love, to beg.

He had the pride of the priest still far off: it is the wildest and
most uncompromising! and pride had been hurt on the deepest. For
him, the lack Agatas triple humiliation. The sinner had to be
the man, the servant of God and the sacrament of the rejected
donors.

The man, the priest, the Holy One wall is taken into convulsions
and foamed vanity, if he the guy bestial, Hirt or Holzknecht, thought
that they now probably he preferred. Bestaubter With torn and cassock,
beschundenen hands and scratched face came after Francesco several
hours, wild and stray Umherkletterns, from gorge, gorge on between
gorse bushes, buzzing by on mountain water, in an area of Generoso
where herd bells touched his ear.

What place he had reached thus, it was not a moment doubtful. He
looked at the abandoned Soana down to his church, which in bright
sun to see clearly, and acknowledged the crowd, which is now the
sanctuary zuströmte vain.

Now he would just be the chasuble in the sacristy übertun. But he had
much more of a rope around the sun and this can herabziehen than
that it might have been the invisible shackles to rip, it
forcibly moved to the Alps. * * * * * Just wanted the young curate
something such as self-reflection anwandeln as a fragrant smoke from
the fresh mountain air borne him in the nose rose. Involuntarily
researching umherblickend, said he is not very far from a seated male
figure, a fire guard seemed to Chen, whose margin tinny vessel, probably
filled with a maneštre, steamed. The seat at the end saw the
priest, because he had given him his back to back. Thus, the
priest again, only a round, almost weißwolligen head, a strong brown
neck and differentiate, while the shoulder and back from one of
age, weather and wind erdfarbgewordenen jacket were covered with
only loosely hung about.

The farmer, shepherd or lumberjack, which he now liked his, sat against
the Chen hingebeugt fire, whose flames barely visible from the mountain
touch pressed wagrecht to the Earth hinzüngelten and smoke plumes
flachhin negative. He was apparently a work in depth, a
Schnitzelei, as soon appeared, and mostly silent, as someone who
is in what he is doing God and the world has forgotten.

As Francesco, anxious for some reason avoiding any movement, longer
time had stood, caught the man or boy on fire softly whistling, and
once the music came, he suddenly melodic throat torn pieces of any
song in the air. The Heart Francesco knocked huge. It was not because
he was so violently schluchtab, schluchtauf had risen, but for
reasons that are partly out of his Different situation, some of who
had the peculiar feeling that the people in the vicinity of the
fire in him demographic aging.

This brown neck, that curled, YELLOWISH-WHITE Gelock the head, the
teen strotzende physicality, which is the shabby cloak suspected that
felt free and wunschlose comfort of a mountain dweller: everything
was a flash Francesco soul in a relationship, in which his morbid
and jealousy still a painful void aufloderte.

Francesco progressively to the fire. It would be him but failed to
remain hidden, and he was also attracted by the irresistible forces.
Then the mountain man around, showed a face full of youth and
strength, as is similar to the priest had never seen before,
jumped up and looked to the next.

It was Francesco now clear that he is a shepherd had to do because
the Schnitzelei that those manufactures, a sling was.

He guarded the brown and black spotted cattle, which, here and there
visible throughout and hidden away between the rocks and bushes
herumkletterten, only betrayed by the bell, the bull and a cow and
the other on the neck.

He was a Christian: and what he would have between all of these
mountain chapels and images of the Madonna area also should be
otherwise? But he seemed a very devoted son of Holy Church, because
he kissed, once the garb of a priest recognizing, Francesco averse
with fervor and humility hand. Otherwise, however, immediately
recognized this as he had with the other children of the Parochie
no similarity.

He was stronger and translated built his muscles had something athletic,
his eyes shone out of the blue lake in the depth to be taken and the
farsightedness of the brown osprey equal, which, as always,
highly circled around Sant Agatha.

His forehead was low, the lips thick and moist, his eyes and smiles
of rough frankness. Hidden and lurking, as it sometimes is intrinsically
southerner, he was not noted.

From all this there is Francesco, eye to eye with the blond young
Adam of the Monte Generoso, accountability and confessed, that
he such a beautiful native lout not yet seen. To the true reason of
his coming and to hide his appearance at the same time to make it,
log it, that it attaches to a dying person the sacrament in a
remote lodge and would then head home without his Ministranten had
begun.

In so doing, he lost, was abgeglitten and slipped off and I wish now
to the right way to be, after he had rested a little.
Consequently when inanimate things are made from
some matter, the relationship of motherhood and sonship does not
follow from this, but only in the generation of living things, which
is properly called nativity.

Reply Obj. 2: As Damascene says (De Fide Orth. iii): "The temporal
nativity by which Christ was born for our salvation is, in a way,
natural, since a Man was born of a woman, and after the due lapse of
time from His conception: but it is also supernatural, because He was
begotten, not of seed, but of the Holy Ghost and the Blessed Virgin,
above the law of conception." Thus, then, on the part of the mother,
this nativity was natural, but on the part of the operation of the
Holy Ghost it was supernatural. Therefore the Blessed Virgin is the
true and natural Mother of Christ.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above (Q. 31, A. 5, ad 3; Q. 32, A. 4), the
resolution of the woman's semen is not necessary for conception;
neither, therefore, is it required for motherhood.
_______________________

FOURTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 35, Art. 4]

Whether the Blessed Virgin should be called the Mother of God?

Objection 1: It would seem that the Blessed Virgin should not be
called the Mother of God. For in the Divine mysteries we should not
make any assertion that is not taken from Holy Scripture. But we read
nowhere in Holy Scripture that she is the mother or parent of God,
but that she is the "mother of Christ" or of "the Child," as may be
seen from Matt. 1:18. Therefore we should not say that the Blessed
Virgin is the Mother of God.

Obj. 2: Further, Christ is called God in respect of His Divine
Nature. But the Divine Nature did not first originate from the
Virgin. Therefore the Blessed Virgin should not be called the Mother
of God.

Obj. 3: Further, the word "God" is predicated in common of Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost. If, therefore, the Blessed Virgin is Mother of
God it seems to follow that she was the Mother of Father, Son, and
Holy Ghost, which cannot be allowed. Therefore the Blessed Virgin
should not be called Mother of God.

_On the contrary,_ In the chapters of Cyril, approved in the Council
of Ephesus (P. 1, Cap. xxvi), we read: "If anyone confess not that
the Emmanuel is truly God, and that for this reason the Holy Virgin
is the Mother of God, since she begot of her flesh the Word of God
made flesh, let him be anathema."

_I answer that,_ As stated above (Q. 16, A. 1), every word that
signifies a nature in the concrete can stand for any hypostasis of
that nature. A brief disappearance of a lover is a stain, but a spot
by the time ausbleichet. In a few years everything is forgotten,
and there are for a rich heiress is still male persons who are not
as accurate. Marwood If in these circumstances would she need neither
for discounts in their stimuli diverge even a husband for her
helpless daughter of a father, I am sure, would Marwood abuse against
Sampson generous act, as against the abuse Sampson Marwood act
disgraceful difficulties . Sara (by up unwillingly). That goes too
far! Is this the language of a kinsmen of Mellefont? - Tells you how
unworthy you Mellefont! - Now I notice it, lady, why you are
so reluctant to let me alone. He likes to know how much of your tongue
to fear. A poisonous tongue! - I'm talking impudent! Because Lady
have talked long enough indecent. Why has such a Marwood Vorsprecherin
can purchase all of their imagination aufbietet, dazzling me a novel
by her aufzudrängen, and all the scheming applying myself to the bona
fides of a man viewed with suspicion to make the man, but is not a
monster? Ward is the only reason why I said that Marwood a daughter
by him boast, I was the only reason why those who cheated and abuse
called, so I'm at the end of the sensitive nature could give
to understand, I would do if I myself a hardened Buhlerin after sat?
Marwood. Only not so hot, my young wenches. An indurated Buhlerin?

- You need wahrscheinlicherweise words whose power you do not have
überleget. Sara. They do not appear as such, even in the portrayal
of Lady Solms? - Well, lady, you are their friend, their familiar
friend, perhaps. I say this not as an accusation, because it can be
easily done in the world probably is not possible, only louder
virtuous have friends. Young as I come to this because of your friendship
so deep herabgestoßen to be? If I had had experience Marwood, I would
certainly be the misstep did not do me with her in such a degrading
parallel sets.

If I had it done but I would not at least ten years of his verharret.
There is something quite different, from ignorance to meet the truck,
and something quite different, and know it demungeachtet be
confidential with him .-- Oh, Lady, if you knew what kind of remorse,
what remorse, what scared me tasted my mistake!

My mistake, I say, because why should I longer so cruel against
me, and it regarded as a crime? The sky itself is listening to him
as such a view, he takes the punishment from me and gives me a
father again - I am alarmed, Lady; like changing trains at once on
your face? You glow, from the rigid eye frightens rage, and the crunch
of movement of the mouth - Oh! where I've angered you, lady, so I ask
for forgiveness. I am a sensitive Närrin; what you have said, was
undoubtedly meant not so bad. Forget my Übereilung. How can I soothe
you? How can I see a friend buy up to you as they Marwood has found
at you? Let me, lady, let me ask fußfällig - (by niederfällt) to your
friendship, Lady - And this is not where I can get to the justice at
least, me and Marwood not in a rank must be set.

Marwood (the proud few steps back occurs and the subject is Sara). This
position is responsible for Sara Sampson Marwood too irritating, just
as they should rejoice about undetected - Recognize, abuse, in my
Marwood, which you will not be compared to the Marwood fußfällig
even ask. Sara (the full horror jumps and trembling retires). Marwood
you - Ha! I now recognize it - I
now recognize them, the mördrische savior whose daggers me a warning
dream disclosure.

It is! Flee unhappy Sara!

Save me, Mellefont; save your beloved!

And thou, sweet voice of my beloved father, resound! Where schallt
they? where should I zueilen on them - here? - da - help Mellefont!
Help Betty! - Itzt penetrates them with killing fist to me!

Help! (Urgent) President. Marwood ninth appearance. What will the
Schwärmerin? - O red'te that they are true and I killed it on
Faust crowd! Until hieher I would have to save the steel, I am stupid!
What voluptuousness, a rival in the voluntary humiliation to our
feet to be able to pierce! - What now? - I'm discovered. Mellefont
the moment may be here. Shall I flee it? Should I expect him? I
would expect him, but not idle. Perhaps that it the happy list
of my servants staying far enough - I see, I will fear. Why do I
follow you do not? Why I try not to be the last thing I can do
against them? Threats are pathetic weapons: but do not despair
spurned so miserable they are.

A startled girl, stunned and shattered senses even before my name
escapes, it can easily terrible words for terrible deeds hold. But
Mellefont? - Mellefont her courage again, and they mock threats
about my teaching. He will? Maybe he will not. There would be
little in the world have been if you only ever affected the outcome
would have been seen. And I'm the unhappiest not prepared? - The
dagger was for others, the poison is for me! - The poison for me!
Long with me around, waiting for it here, the heart is already close
to the sad service here where I am in better times the written
blandishments of worshipers hid for us is just as certain, but only
langsamres poison .-- If it is only be determined, in my veins not
to rage!

If it is though it responds to Ungetreuen - What do I want on me?
- Fort! I have neither me nor to himself wrong. The venture will be
nothing that deals with cold blood dare wants. (Go from.) (End of
the fourth lift.) Fifth Elevator Room First appearance of Sara.
Sara (weak in an armchair). Betty. Betty. Feel Do not abuse, that you
will be a little better?

Sara. Better, Betty - If only Mellefont wanted to come back.
You've got after him ausgeschickt? Betty. Norton and the landlord
seek him. Sara. Norton is a good man, but he is hasty. I will
certainly not that he his Lord for my rudeness say. As he told it
himself, then yes Mellefont at all innocent. Not true, Betty, you
hold him innocent - you ways; the point after him, what can he
do so ? It rages, they raset, she wants to assassinate him. You see,
Betty? this danger, I have him suspended. Who else than me? - And
finally, the evil Marwood see me rather than return to London. Could
he refuse her this little thing? Am I but also often been eager
to see Marwood. Mellefont know well that we are curious creatures.
And if I do not even have insisted that they are up to his Zurückkunft
I should be forgiven, he would they have taken away again. I would be
under a false name have seen, without knowing that I had seen it.
And perhaps this would give me a pleasant little fraud once been. In
short, all the blame is mine .-- As well, I'm frightened, wide
I'm nothing? The small impotence did not say much. You know
well, Betty, I am inclined. Betty. But in so deep I had never
seen abuse. Sara. Say it is not just me. I will give you kind girls
certainly have to create. Betty. Marwood himself shone through the
danger in which you were, gerühret to be. So much I her plant that
they can only fortbegeben wants, so she wanted to but that does not
tend to leave the room, until your eyes a little again and I
aufschlugen you could instill Arzenei. Sara. I should probably
do it for luck, that I'm fainted. Because who knows what I have heard
it would have. Umsonst liked it certainly is not me in my room to be
followed. You do not save me as I was. Suddenly I noticed the horrible
dream of the previous night, and I fled as a nonsense, do not know why
and where they fled .-- But Mellefont ways; the point yet .-- Oh,
Betty. What an Ah, Miss? What twitching? - Sara. God! what a sensation
it was - Betty. What triggers you again? Sara. Nothing, Betty .-- A
Bite! not a stitch, a thousand fiery stings in one! - Be quiet
only, it is over. Second appearance Norton.

Sara. Betty. Norton. Mellefont the moment is here. Sara. Well,
it's good, Norton. But where did you found it yet? Norton. An
unknown to him before the gate is locked with, where a gentleman
waiting on him, in matters of the greatest importance must speak with
him. After a long time around, the cheater him from the side
geschlichen. It is his misfortune, where he can catch, so
angry Mellefont. Sara. Have you told him what action? Norton. Everything.
Sara. But with a kind of - Norton. I clicked on the nature of
thought. Enough, he knows what makes you fear for his carelessness
has caused again. Sara. Not yet, Norton, I have caused them .--
Norton. Why should Mellefont never wrong - just come, my Lord, the
love you already entschuldiget. Mellefont third appearance.
Norton. Sara. Betty. Mellefont. Oh, abuse, although this would not
be your love - Sara.

So if I were certainly two of us the unfortunate. Are you in your
absence only added nothing moroseness face as me, so I'm happy.
Mellefont. So kind to be welcomed, I have not deserved. Sara. Forgive
my weakness is that I do not tender can receive. But your satisfaction
because I wanted me to feel less sick. Mellefont. Ha, Marwood, this
treachery was still left! The non-decent of me with the mysterious
face of a street in the other, from an angle in the other, was
certainly no different than a posted by her. You see, dear Miss, this
list turned it to me by you to remove. A crude list, no doubt, but
precisely because it was clumsy, I was far away, they have to keep.
Free so they must not have been unfaithful! Geschwind, Norton, go into
their apartment, do not let them out of sight, and keep them so long
to get offspring.

Sara. Why this, Mellefont? I ask for Marwood. Mellefont. Go! (Norton
geht ab.) Fourth appearance Sara. Mellefont. Betty. Sara. Have you
been an exhausted enemy, the last of the fruitless assault daring,
quiet deduct. I would not be much without Marwood know - Mellefont.
Much? What is the lot? Sara. What you can not say myself had
Mellefont .-- They are aback? - Well well, I will forget it
again, because you do not want that I should know. Mellefont. I do not
want to hope that you have something to believe my disadvantages,
which no other reason than the jealousy of an angry Verleumderin.
Sara. On another it - but why let it not be the first to me from
the risk to say, in your precious life is found? I, Mellefont, I
would have sanded the steel with which you had punctured Marwood
- Mellefont.

This danger was not so great. Marwood was from a blind rage-driven, and
I was in cold blood. Their attack had thus fall short - If given
a else to abuse the good opinion of Sara Mellefont her, not
only have achieved this!

Almost I fear it - No, dear Miss, hide me, it is no longer what
you want from her in that country. Sara. Well well .-- If I had
the slightest doubt about your love had Mellefont, so it would give
me the raging Marwood have behaved. You must surely know that it
is the most precious to me has come; uncertain because a loss would
have let go cautious. Mellefont. Soon I will be so bloodthirsty
in their jealousy, their impetuous impudence, unfaithful to their
list will have some value! - But, Miss, you want to dodge
me again and I do not find one - Sara. I want it, and what I said
was already a step closer. That Mellefont me so loves, is certainly
unwidersprechlich. If only I had not discovered that his love of a
certain lack of confidence, which I also would be flattering
than the love itself short, dearest Mellefont - Why must I have a
sudden anxiety talking so difficult to make? I will say it must,
without a lot of the careful phrase to search, with which I should
tell you .-- Marwood said a pledge, and the chattering like Norton
- it awarded him only - called me a name, a name , Mellefont, which
is a tenderness for others keen to do it to you when you feel against
me - Mellefont. Is it
possible?

Has its own outrageous disgrace known?

- Oh, Miss, you have to pity my confusion .-- Since you already
know everything, why do you want it still to hear from my lips?

It should never come before your eyes, the little unhappy, you
can not accuse their mother. Sara. They love them so it? - Mellefont.
Too much abuse, too much, as that I should deny it. Sara. Cheers!
Mellefont .-- How much I love you, even to this love's sake! They
would have me beleidiget sensitive when the sympathy of your blood
out of me would have negative gravity denied. You've got me this
beleidiget that you threaten me, they do not come before my eyes for
you.

No, Mellefont, it must be one of the promises that you sent me
in the eyes of the Supreme angeloben that you Arabelle not want to
leave. It is in danger in the hands of her mother of her father to
be unworthy.

Need Your rights on both, and let me take the place of
Marwood occur. Give me the good fortune to me a girlfriend to
educate you to thank her life has, one of my Mellefont sex. Happy
days, when my father, if you, if Arabellapark my childish awe, my
confidential love, my friendship careful to employ the bet for free!

Happy days! But oh! - They are still far in the
future. - But perhaps the future knows nothing of them, and they're
just in my desire nor happiness - feelings Mellefont never felt
sensations turn my eyes in a other view!

A dark prospect reverently in the shade! - How will I? - (By hand
face holds.) Mellefont. What a sudden transition from Bewundrung on
terror - but hurry, Betty! Help Make it! - What do you miss, magnanimous
abuse! Heavenly soul! Why hide me this envious hand (by making them
take away) so Holde eyes - Oh, there are mines, the cruelest pain,
but are reluctant to tell! - And yet the hand is jealous that I want
to hide these mines. Should I not feel your pain, abuse? I Unfortunately,
I can only sympathize! - That I should not feel alone! - So hurry
but, Betty - Betty.

Where should I hurry? - Mellefont. You see, and ask - for help!
Sara. Stay only! - It's over. I will not scare you, Mellefont. Mellefont.
Betty, what is it done? - These are not mere consequences of powerlessness
.-- Fifth appearance Norton. Mellefont. Sara. Betty. Mellefont.
You Koemm again, Norton? Quite well! You will be needed here. Norton.
Marwood is gone - Mellefont. And my curses hurrying after her - you
is gone? - Where? - Accident and death and, where possible, all hell
may be found on their way! Consuming fire donnre the sky down on
them, and her interrupting the Earth, the largest female monster to
devour! - Norton. Once inside her apartment came back, she with
Arabelle and her girl thrown into the carriage and the horses with
reins davoneilen be imposed. This slip is sealed by it to you
retarded.

Mellefont (he takes the piece of paper). He is to me .-- Shall
I read it, Miss? Sara. If you be quiet, Mellefont. Mellefont. Quiet?
Can I be before I went to Marwood gerächet and you, dearest Miss,
white out of danger?
Therefore He willed to be born at
Bethlehem, where David was born, in order that by the very birthplace
the promise made to David might be shown to be fulfilled. The
Evangelist points this out by saying: "Because He was of the house
and of the family of David." Secondly, because, as Gregory says (Hom.
viii in Evang.): "Bethlehem is interpreted 'the house of bread.' It
is Christ Himself who said, 'I am the living Bread which came down
from heaven.'"

Reply Obj. 1: As David was born in Bethlehem, so also did he choose
Jerusalem to set up his throne there, and to build there the Temple
of God, so that Jerusalem was at the same time a royal and a priestly
city. Now, Christ's priesthood and kingdom were "consummated"
principally in His Passion. Therefore it was becoming that He should
choose Bethlehem for His Birthplace and Jerusalem for the scene of
His Passion.

At the same time, too, He put to silence the vain boasting of men who
take pride in being born in great cities, where also they desire
especially to receive honor. Christ, on the contrary, willed to be
born in a mean city, and to suffer reproach in a great city.

Reply Obj. 2: Christ wished "to flower" by His holy life, not in His
carnal birth. Therefore He wished to be fostered and brought up at
Nazareth. But He wished to be born at Bethlehem away from home;
because, as Gregory says (Hom. viii in Evang.), through the human
nature which He had taken, He was born, as it were, in a foreign
place--foreign not to His power, but to His Nature. And, again, as
Bede says on Luke 2:7: "In order that He who found no room at the inn
might prepare many mansions for us in His Father's house."

Reply Obj. 3: According to a sermon in the Council of Ephesus [*P.
iii, cap. ix]: "If He had chosen the great city of Rome, the change
in the world would be ascribed to the influence of her citizens. If
He had been the son of the Emperor, His benefits would have been
attributed to the latter's power. But that we might acknowledge the
work of God in the transformation of the whole earth, He chose a poor
mother and a birthplace poorer still."

"But the weak things of the world hath God chosen, that He may
confound the strong" (1 Cor. 1:27). calls. In other rooms, such as
Martha and Gretchen bar I am without this permission. But the key
to this bizarre impositions we might find in the verse: "Usually
believes the man, if he hears only words, it must be something to
think about!" Let's go on. I'm standing on a very special walk
with the witches . The witch in the kitchen I would certainly
love to receive, but they saw no drawback, and to me about it through
my coat of arms to legitimize whoopee do I make a gesture: "My
friend, the study probably understand, this is the way with witches
manner.

On the Brocken in the Walpurgis Night, I am still much better known.

Walking is not comfortable with me, I therefore say to the doctor:
"you do not ask for a broomsticks?

I wish I allerderbsten the buck." Again, "Draw me not a knee band
out, however, the drawback to this honorable House. "To this, the
general Gelichter me to show I am dancing with an old witch and entertain
me with her in Zoten that can only by dashes" The, hatt 'a -- --- So
- it was, I liked it's "bold indicate. I'm even in Faust's eyes an
odious, gloating journeyman who "-------- cold and cheeky Him from
themselves humiliated." -- I have no doubt of ugly, unpleasant
facial shape and what you, with a mild expression marked intriguer,
and in common life abgefeimten thieves cares to mention.

Therefore, Gretchen tells me: "Man, you've given to you, I am
in deep innrer Seel 'hated. It has given me in my life So nothing
a trick to the heart, where as the people recall the face .-- His
presence moved me the blood, I have before people secretly dread .--
-- -When he comes to the door once inside, he always looks so
half-mockingly Dreiner ergrimmt .-- And it is him on the forehead
is written, That he does not like a soul love "& c.

Therefore, I am also near:" And she understands the physiognomy most
certainly, in my presence is that she does not know how; My M ä skchen
because weissagt verborgnen sense, you feel quite sure that I
am a genius, maybe even probably am the devil. "Is this his idea for
Gretchen? Is it biased near a system, which, as they say, denied
their God? Is it about an unpleasant odor, a sultry air, it makes
my close fearful?

Is it childish sense of the devil than the earlier ahnet already fallen
man, such as dogs and horses before the night spook shy if they
do not see him?

No - it's just my face that makes them afraid, so afraid that she
says: "- Where he just likes to join us, My "I even, I no longer loved
you." - Why this now? Why should the devil is a facial cut that
everyone distrust einflößt the zurückschreckt, instead of sin, according
to the usual terms that are enticing, lovely to see it. Who has
not seen the wonderful outlines on Goethe's Faust by the brilliant
Retsch seen!

Certainly, even the devil must be in such a work of art, having fun.
A few strokes, a few dots are the lovely, perceptive of the child's
face, chaste Gretchen, Faust in the complete flowering of the man
stands beside her, their dignity even in the fallen gods son, but
the painter follows the idea of the poet, and, behold, a monster
in human form is in addition to those lovely pictures.

The unpleasant forms of arid body, the ausgedorrte face, ugly nose,
the sunken eyes, mouth distorted angle - away from this picture that
I already have so often annoyed. [Footnote: It allows me a little note.
When I'm not mistaken, so here we caught the devil on a greater
vanity than you should trust him most, it certainly has nothing against
those venerated poet upset in that he returned with something
as ugly vibrant colors of this remark is to more likely, if
one recalls that he cited in the second section itself admits
that by his incarnation in some vanity that drove him; Master Urian
Incidentally there by the excessive zeal with which he alleges
Mißgestalt, a bareness that he should not have been beigehen.].

And why do these ugly shape? I ask again. So, I reply, because Goethe,
so high above his floating poets, his Satan anthropomorphosiert;
to the fallen E ngel worthy enough show, he dresses him in the
shape of a fallen deeply Ensch M n.

The body of sin has its ugly, lean, made uncomfortable. In his
face all have passions and it gewühlt to face disfigured, from
the hollow eye spraying the green flame of envy, greed, and the mouth
is unlawful, gloating like that of a meek, nice everything on
earth has already tasted and now consists of over-saturation rümpft
about the mouth; the presumption of innocence, it is not stain well
in his vicinity, because these trains before it shudders. Thus, the
poet, because he is a bad human eye had a poor devil gemalt. Or is
roughly in the mythology of the Lord von Goethe, the devil can not
now even look different, they're nne his face, his shape does not
convert?

No, we read: "Even the culture, the whole world beleckt, Did the
Devil extends; The Nordic Phantom is now no longer to see where you
see horns, tail and claws? You call me Mr. Baron, the well, I'm a
gentleman like other cavaliers. "And in another place he makes my
face a" Mäskchen "call and consequently he can give a mask, can
transform, but, as I said, the poet has merely , the Nordic P hantom
nevertheless maintain that it is only me "H ö rner n, S K chweifund
warm" dispensation.

This is the image of Mephistopheles, this is Goethe's devil, that
Nordic Phantom should introduce myself. Is now a
poet of so high-ranking man by such a low creature, which is already
suspected by their mask making will be led to perdition?

Is that great spirit that is still in its case high above the rest,
he may by an ordinary "dissolute brother," as what Mephisto is
identified, herabgezogen be?

And - this must not mask the dignity of those
entries tragedy do?

But I silent. On things happened is nothing to change, and my dear
grandmother, on the same subject would say to me: "My little son!

Diabolical!

Remember that a great poet, a large audience and have a big audience
to get as popular as possible to be. "* * * * * CHAPTER SEVENTEENTH.'

s Visit.

This is all a raised fist poem and one of the G oethe first ghost
of his time, and we should therefore not be surprised that I have
a great desire in me felt that this man once to see.

I had an unexpected visit to him can make, yes, if I am often quite
angry about my caricature was standing I jump on him once in the
costume of nächtlicherweile Mephistopheles to appear to him, some
horrors in the limbs to hunt, but a degree of benevolence, which
we sometimes find in me has kept me from ever again, the old man a
sleepless night to make.

I am therefore decided, as _Doctor legens_ a Ehrsam Titles on trips
to visit him, and as such I came in Weimar.

It is with famous people like a strange animal.

If a tenant more honest with his family in the city on the market,
it is his first that he is in
the inn, the house servant asks: "When you can see lions, lad?"

"My lord," replied the wanted, "the monkeys and seals are available
all day to have the lion, but is best opened when the food he has
in him, so I advise to that time to go."

Just so gave it to me in Weimar. I drove from Jena made by young
Americans across.

Even in his fatherland was the poet's fame has long urged, and he was
doing on the big tour through Europe to the famous man in honor
already a detour of twenty miles. In the inn, where we had dismounted,
we asked once, what time we thank Mr. von Goethe could happen?
We were in travel clothes, especially at my companions had become
somewhat unremarkable.

The landlord therefore mustered us with suspicious eyes and asked,
before he even replied to our question, whether we also have with
us Fräcke. We were both so happily provide, and our landlord promised
us immediately to register. "They will probably be after the
dinner, five clock, to be adopted. At this time His Excellency
is the best so to speak. Do not doubt that you are adopted, because
if you, as the Lord here, especially from America, why come to
Weimar, it would be ruthless, an unseen fortzuschicken again.

"This patriotism was very far indeed. But we had the good man in the
belief that the young Philadelphier to Weimar _recta_ come and go from
there back home. By the way, he had correctly predicted: _Doctor legens_
Supfer, as I mentioned, and Fort Hill from the United States
were ordered to five clock. Finally, the hour, we represented us
on the way. The poet lived very nicely. A smooth, tasteful, decorated
with statues of stairs leads to him. A deep, mysterious silence lay
on the corridor, which we entered.

Silently the servant led us into the visiting room. Comfortable
elegance, delicacy and refinement, combined with dignity, signed
this rooms. My young companion looked amazed these walls, these
images, these Meubles.

So he had probably the S t ü bchendes D rs icht not presented. The
admiration of these environments also seemed afraid of the size of
the expected to rise. All Nüancen changed from red to his pleasant
face. His heart knocked audibly, his eye was rigid stapled to the
door through which the market was celebrated.

I had leisure enough, however, about the great man it. How much further,
I said to myself, how infinitely more to help the mortals gifts of
the Spirit as the accidental radiance of birth. The son of an
insignificant citizen of Frankfurt has the highest level reached
by the people according to the ordinary course of things open. There
have been some stage erstiegen.

Business men from this area have benefited from modest place at the
door all the seats through their colleges, until finally the chair,
the first is on the throne, she came into his arms. Some has been
on the battlefield won the portfolio - Goethe has broken his own track,
on which none preceded him, he has not followed. He has proved that
man can do what he wants. Because you tell me nothing by a space
full of genius, of a spirit of his age formed, it gradually led
to the higher - the age has made him.

I can still probably think what a shambles life "Werther" in
Germany made the love.

The Lotten seemed as if by a magic stroke from the ground to
grow. The number of Werther was legion. But what was this Goethes
merit? Was it really only because the truth that he is the squirrel
sat in the mouth, and the first tone, which he claimed had priest
and layman, Nönnchen and Dämchen in their quaint caprioles
St. Vitus dance begin?

How creative is this great secret? A lleszurrechten Z ei t. The
"Siegwart" had the hard heart and they abgetaut all sorts of misery,
for the moonlight and tombs susceptible, because of Goethe - The
door went on, - he came from. Three bent, we deeply - and then dared
to blink up to him. A beautiful, stately old man! Eyes as clear and
bright
as a young, full sovereignty, the forehead, mouth full of dignity
and grace.

He was clothed with a fine, black dress, and from his breast a
beautiful star shone .-- But he was not a long time for such
considerations.

With the twist of a world of fine man, a day so many admirers in
their looks, he invited us to seats.

What did I do for a donkey was, as usual in this mask to him to go!
_Doctores Legentes_ liked it a lot have seen hundreds. Americans who,
like our host said, he sake of the lake, certainly few. Therefore, it
is also that he is mostly amused by my companions. Had I but for a
scholarly Iroquois or a fine spirit displayed by the Mississippi!
Had I not wonder he can tell things how his fame beyond the Ohio
to squat, how to the Cabane in Louisiana about him and his "Wilhelm
Meister" to entertain - I have been given some minor phrases, and
my companion was happier the great man entertained.

How wrong are often the terms used by one of the entertainment with
a big man makes! Is he as funny head known, it is mentioned
when you first visited him, a sort of Elektrisiermaschine too close.

It flatters him, man believes he must then sparks of wit to
shine, as the black cats, if they are given at night, stroking his
back. Is he a Roman poet, so you head to an interesting story of
the Famous for entertainment only fast from the sleeve will shake.
Is he even a playwright, it shall notify us in friendship, perhaps
the plan for a new game with sadness that we will very warm again
our friend could forward. Is he even a full head like Goethe, one
of so to say in all the saddles, which is fair - as interesting
as instructive, the entertainment!

How much should you also take along to meet him! The Americans thought
so, until he sat next to Goethe.'s I drove, how good Walt, before he
came to the flakes [Footnote: Jean Paul Flegel years], anxious
above in all four cerebral ventricles and to the bottom in both
heart chambers, such as a mouse around to it as a grain of tasty
idea came to him that he could of them and submit for snack.

He looked anxiously at the lips of the poet, so his word is not
omitted, as the candidate for the strict Examinator, he bent his
hat and glove zerpflückte a glazed into small pieces. But what
centners Stein liked him from the heart fall, as the poet from his
heights herabstieg to him and spoke with him as Hans and Kunz in the
pub. He said that with him on the good weather in America, and by about
the ratio of the winds on the air, the vapors of water-rich
in America to those in our old Europe is widespread, he
showed us that the universe of science in him had risen because he was
not only epic and lyric poet, novelist and Romance, comedy and
tragedy = poet, biographer (his own), and translators - no, he was
also even meteorologist!

Who can boast so deeply into the mysterious realm of knowledge intruded
at the same time? Who can say that with any language, not dialect of
his fatherland, but the things familiar to him and just wants to be
good, could speak! I think if I am traveling as a cook with him would
have been listed, he would have learned with me in discussions about
the mysterious composition of foie gras embedded or after a
Sekundenuhr calculated how much time you have a steak on each side,
basting necessary.

So beautiful Weather in America, we talked, and see - the poor
sinners of the American face brightened up, the floodgates opened
his eloquence - he described the fine, soft rain of Canada, he had
the spring storms in New York City buzz and the pries umbrella
factory in the Franklin Road to Philadelphia. It was me at the
end, as if I do not Goethe, but in an inn on good old companions,
and it would be a bottle of beer talking about the weather, so
human, so kordial was our discourse, but this is precisely the great
mystery of the conversation that we are accustomed - no good to
talk, but good to h ö re n.

If we educated the less time and space to speak, when it makes a face
when you listen carefully to his words of honey , he will then
announce with enthusiasm that you log on to the delicious and
entertain. This did a lot of experienced poets, and instead of
us from his wealth mite must, before he moved it with us weather
observations.

Once we have sufficiently ennuyiert have liked, he gave the sign to get
up, the chairs were moved, the hats made and we sent to us, our
Abschiedskomplimente to make. The good man knew not that he is
the devil's quote, as he magnanimously wished me also to look at,
I told him about it and his time will come hold, because truthfully,
I have not yet his Mephistopheles hinuntergeschluckt.

One - two kipper, we received. Still mute and stupid in front
of me followed by admiration for the American Inn, the redness
of the lively discourse was still on his cheek, and sometimes an
approving smile crept to his mouth, he seemed highly pleased with the
visit. In our room, he is heroic in a chair and had two bottles of
champagne applied. The cork went with a joy shot into the ceiling,
the Americans poured two glasses, gave me one and pushed on to the
welfare of that great poet. "Is not it a little good news," he
said, "to find, so hocherhabene Men are like Our one? War me terrified
and scared in front of a genius, written thirty books, I must
confess, when the storm, which we covered on the open sea, I was
not so anxious. And how condescending he was, as he sensibly with us
diskuriert what joy he had in me, as I have from the new land came!
" He gave this industrious and drank to his health and the poet, and
the witnessed grace and sparkling befuddled, he finally fell with
the decision, America Goethe to be sleeping in the arms.

But I put myself to the rest the bottles. This wine is the drink of
all the earth, which I am most comfortable with his lighter, fleeting
spirit, the earthly seriousness so little with him, makes him worthy
of ghosts, if they are in human bodies to visit the earth, were put
in . I had to smile when I looked at the blissful sleeper; how
easy it is for a big man, the others to make people happy, he can
only make him as if they were pretty much the same, and they come
from the mind almost .

This was my visit to Goethe, and truthfully, I regretted not to
have been with him, because "From time to time seh 'I like the old
me And take care with it to break, It is pretty even from a great
Lord , Sun humanely with the devil himself to speak. "* * * * * The
festival in purgatory.

A sketch." The greatest happiness of the historian is that the dead
do not protest against their views may be.

"World and time. CHAPTER I. ACHTZEHNTES. Description of the feast. Satan
learns three characteristics worthy subjects know. I share here a section
from my memoirs, of which did not concern myself, which I recorded
but, because it was very interesting to me and perhaps others not want
to be some interest. He carries the inscription: "T he F esttag
in egefeuer F" and came through the following reason for this title.

It is on the earth in all the major men's and potentates custom,
their joy and their grief in loud and clear to walk. When a from
princely blood-based body of the dove returned, the clerk in the
land of hard work, because it heralds many days all the bells. When
a princess or even a master keeper born so terrible cannon thunder
proclaims this message.

Landesväterliche or landesmütterliche birthdays with all possible
gloss offense. The citizen militia back from the notables hold a
feast, the evening is a ball or at least in the country town _bière
dansante_. In short, everything lives _in dulci jubilo_ on such
days.
_I answer that,_ Christ's birth was ordered unto man's salvation,
which is by faith. But saving faith confesses Christ's Godhead and
humanity. It behooved, therefore, Christ's birth to be made known in
such a way that the proof of His Godhead should not be prejudicial to
faith in His human nature. But this took place while Christ presented
a likeness of human weakness, and yet, by means of God's creatures,
He showed the power of the Godhead in Himself. Therefore Christ made
His birth known, not by Himself, but by means of certain other
creatures.

Reply Obj. 1: By the way of generation and movement we must of
necessity come to the imperfect before the perfect. And therefore
Christ was made known first through other creatures, and afterwards
He Himself manifested Himself perfectly.

How then would the Bocca able to stand up against the overwhelming power
of the enemy? The Bokel arose. Had the Vladika wanted it, they would
have enthusiastically fought against the Austrians. Since the Vladika
on other sites but against the enemies of his country had to struggle,
and because it also with the Austrian emperor lived on a good foot,
Bokel nothing remained for the rest, as shown. That said so far
really does not belong directly to the events that we describe
have, but it had to be recalled to show that we are a nation have
to do that as a whole in itself but as part of a larger popular
family felt that his past had, which by its constant quest for
freedom premonition was fulfilled, with a small nation that is not
annoying his neighbors, and which they demanded nothing more than
freedom of high seas and a free shelter in the countryside.

Because this nation has always lived on the water as on the
mainland. Sailors and fishermen were operating in their lives more
water and the sky looked as solid land. A free mind, a clear and
unbiased assessment of things and an unspoilt feel justice was they
always had their own. They are not deprived of the cultural influence
of their Italian patrons. You never know the opulence and splendor
Ragusa compatriots in their cities, yet they were rich. Perast Cattaro
and made some major competition coastal cities in Upper Dalmatia and
Italy. Castel Nuovo, and Budua Risano were smaller in scope and
size, but not to wealth and businesses. These people from the Bocca
di Cattaro durchreisten in their teenage
years the world.

Sometimes with wealth, but always with greater experience they went
back to their home that they so loved and in her life wanted to
spend the evening.

Disgusting, there was nothing for them, as a subjugation of a people,
tyranny and oppression.

The freedom was equally necessary for them to life as the sea and the
air. These noble character of their temperament showed Bokel
throughout their history. They were never enslaved, but they took
to protect this soon, soon claimed that power. This was not only their
freedom is not restricted, but enlarged and often even better
secured against the greed of the nearest neighbors.

The Treaty of Campo Formio as well as those of Bratislava felt the
Bokel seriously injured, because one of them without their consent had
. They had previously negotiated with Venice, before it came under his
care. Such direct negotiations with Austria or France, they were
prohibited. That hurt their pride, which played a powerful role in
its political and social life.

That was the main reason for their reluctance, their agitation
against the provisions of the major powers. The other reason was the
fear of limiting their freedom in trade and politics. The atmosphere
in the Bocca Burger Press after the peace was even more excited than
the Campo Formio, because Europe is once again to paint over the
country had arbitrarily and, second, because the rumor was spread
that the French, the would-be lords of the country, the Bocca of
its free trade and business wanted to rob.

When the Austrian district captain in Bocca, Baron _Kavalkabo_ the Bokel
announced that all cities of the country until 10 February, the French
would have to be passed, they were so saddened and angered that they
all like a man ready declared that their country before the new
Weltavanturisten to the death to defend. [11] They saw themselves
on two fronts in order to help .

The first aid course was to seek in Montenegro. Another hoped she aid
of the Russians to get. But not by the Russians in Russia, but from
the Russian fleet, which currently _Korfu_ was and had to abandon
the Ionian Republic prior to the French shield.

This fleet commanded the Vice-Admiral _Senjavin_. After the Battle
of _Trafalgar_, where the French fleet was destroyed, Russians and
Englishmen were on the water, the undoubted masters. Napoleon
had almost no fleet more. So he had to seek the Litorale everywhere
well against the onslaught of water to fortify her.
Moreover, it was not without reason that Christ's birth was made
known, by means of angels, to the shepherds, who, being Jews, were
accustomed to frequent apparitions of the angels: whereas it was
revealed by means of a star to the Magi, who were wont to consider
the heavenly bodies. Because, as Chrysostom says (Hom. vi in Matth.):
"Our Lord deigned to call them through things to which they were
accustomed." "Do you weep?" asked the aunt, in her Fahrig, kreiselnden
way into the room kicking. "I? No. How so?" Therese stuttered and tried
to laugh. When Behn went over there at that moment a cab before. The
family returned from a back exit. Wittfoth rushed to the
window. "The can's. Always classy." Miss Lulu left as the last bit
slow the car. "Grief is not for you," mocked the Wittfoth.
"How they schlappt." Therese, such comments from the aunt lived
and built some of them, remained silent. "Have you seen?" drove
these continued. "When you disembark? This has probably been
eight days, no fresh stockings dressed." "So?" Therese doubted. "pitch
black, and 'n hole was there," strove aunt. "That you can see from
here?" wondered the girl. "Well, at any rate würd 'I am ashamed
of such stockings extended," directed the Wittfoth On. "And yet
this auf'n Easter." VI. Lulu Behn corresponded pretty much to its
reputation.

Warped by his father, whose favorite similar to him first-born had
remained, the weak, somewhat limited understanding of mother superior,
she enjoyed the utmost comfortable days, that the good life and the
parents gave her. Their penchant for convenience artete in inertia,
the less the hard work has become big mother of course wanted to desist
economies, but in recent years, often ailing wife of the good-natured
man in every way to facilitate bid was made.

With the help of a servant and the second, fourteen-year-old daughter
Paula, in particular resembled the mother, she could quite simply
the obligations of the bourgeois home care to meet without the
support of the older daughter to be dependent.

Lulu, the early good facilities for learning showed, had a their
relationships carefully trained. She was two years in a foreign
pension been, where they the father of the house sent for peace, as
mother and daughter are badly vertrugen. Also had music lessons had
Lulu. As a lady, she was returned to the parental home. The sister
was in everything the opposite. It showed an insurmountable aversion
to any learning, but all the talents of the mother at home care. High
aufgeschossen, strong, robust than the mother, she worked when it
was with the maid to the bet. Was there nothing to scrub, wash, rinse
or Schrape in the kitchen, so she played better on the road with
their peers, preferably with the boys than the school books behind
to sit.

The father, who from the simple to the homeowner Gesellen Maurer
hinaufgearbeitet was reasonable enough, the small, their inclinations
and capabilities according to the elementary school to send. "The
times will be 'ne fixe Köksch," he used to say. "Each after its kind"
Nevertheless, he looked with pride at his daughter educated.

With the higher up he wanted. Lulu already twice had to make a decent
game, but both were small craftsmen Free, Beginners, and the old
Behn wanted for his Lulu a "Lord". He was happy when the girl vorspielte
him. The Flower Song by Gustav Lange, Kußwalzer from the ostrich and
the Overture to the Caliph of Baghdad "were his favorites and Lulu
Parforce pieces. This and two or three others had them out of retirement
to take home, and since then only Ludolf Waldmann just become popular
song "fisherwoman, you little" hinzugelernt, Paula Leib song to
which they each Lulu anger to the text, with its bright, tinny
heruntersang child's voice, a hobby which they with Anna, the maid,
said.

Lulu was in spite of the education board basically remained
ordinary. On the level of their musical taste was their whole
soul life. She dressed up with a penchant for striking and was
due to their inertia and disorder in each new costume soon and
sloppy usual. Gefallsüchtig, but she wore a certain nonchalance in
their external appearance subject to review.

She knew that she was pretty and perfect toilet without the eyes of
men to be moved. Their medium-sized, well-figure with the swelling,
a bit prone to exuberance forms, the tender, rosy complexion
with fine summer shoot conversation grandchildren, the delicate,
straight nose the blue, shiny peculiarly veiled eyes, the lush
blond hair and her especially tired of the sensual, lascivious
expression of her face made her every man interesting.

But the righteous were nearest
to Christ by faith, and longed most for His coming; whence it is
written (Luke 2:25) of Simeon that "he was just and devout, waiting
for the consolation of Israel." Therefore Christ's birth should have
been made known to Simeon before the shepherds and Magi.

Obj. 2: Further, the Magi were the "first-fruits of the Gentiles,"
who were to believe in Christ. But first the "fulness of the Gentiles
. . . come in" unto faith, and afterwards "all Israel" shall "be
saved," as is written (Rom. 11:25). Therefore Christ's birth should
have been made known to the Magi before the shepherds.

Luis Velez _Parece thing, _ but, Lord, V. Ex ª tube fault; me onrra
Havi submitted to the Portuguese, who called in Castile cloth.
"] [Note 20: Pérez Pastor, _Bibliografía Madrileña, _ Book III, pp.
509.] [Note 21: Perez and Gonzalez, work cited, pp. 207.] [Note 22:
Pérez y González, work cited, pp. 210.] [Note 23: In late 1851
a man Pianitzky thought to translate into Russian _The Devil Cojuelo_,
requested explanations from the Spanish Academy of doubts that had
been offered.

Since the commissioning academic don Agustín Durán to reply, this
gentleman, by April of next year, reported having met, to the extent
of its forces. But how you played, holy God!

I grace the reader of the other formalities that unfortunate case:
suffice it to say, that no man of Duran irritated too, at that time
he slept with Homer leg loose, and as he had slept with his hands,
or form did that the put, which is most probably in empecatadas
_ilustraciones_ of Duran. That long string of unfortunate mistakes,
which the curious reader can examine the manuscripts department of
the National Library (Ms. 13881) - as it were to stop, with the other
hand, our romances meritísimo manifold, drafts of his incredible
work - invited what I invited? required to return for the honor of
Vélez badly, and in general, the outside of our language; Mr. Bonilla
could not resist a temptation so plausible, and is fair to
recognize that in many parts achieved its intent, explaining many
things that Duran had not known given the right account.] [Note
24: Letter from the page. VIII of the introduction: "I was then [in
1902] fortune (which by this dispute) to find a friendly critic
and scholar in the person of Mr.

Don Felipe Pérez y González, who published in _The Spanish Enlightenment
and Americana_ and collected later in a volume (_The Devil Cojuelo_,
Madrid, 1903) some _notas_ about my comments, which inmerecidamente
declared "worthy of applause and praise. The disagreement that I
am with some of his findings does not preclude recognizing the
accuracy of others, or to seize their teachings with gratitude, as
always welcome and take those with me are baseless. Constantly
strive to do useful work, but never had the ridiculous claim that
they were perfect. "] [Note 25: Santiago de Chile, Imprenta de San
José, 1915, page 15.]

[Note 26: S. 190, editing Saragossa, yes, 1697.] [Note 27: Volume
IV, pp. 386, 13.] [Note 28: No place or years, but in Seville,
around 1630.] [Note 29: National Archives, Inquisition of
Toledo, record 91 cases, Vol. 176, fol. 85.] [Note 30: _Ibid_.,
File 94, núm. 226.] [Note 31: National Archives, Inquisition
of Valencia, record 25 cases, Vol. 1.] [Note 32: National Archives,
Inquisition of Toledo, record 83 cases, Vol. 41.] [Note 33: Inquisition
of Toledo, record 86 cases, number 73.]

[Note 34: Mr. Bonilla, to say this against Perez and Gonzalez also
felt against himself, for in their 1902 edition, page XXVII, said:
"We conclude therefore that _The Devil Cojuelo, _ started towards
1630, was completed after February 1637, the date of the aforementioned
parties' referring to those held in retirement, in which Louis
Velez, president, read the sonnet reads Don Cleophas Academy Sevillana
(Trance IX of the present edition) and, with minor variations, the
same _Premáticas and ordenanzas_ you read on another board of the
Academy sobredicha (Trance X.) ] [Note 35: I too fell into the
temptation of making some inquiries about it, and to this end, since
the beginning of trance IX appointment as assistant to the Count
of Salvatierra Seville, found out when he took up this post and
when it ceased exercise, if one or the other to give some light to
the lawsuit.

Not give his attendance on the day lasted from April 24 1634 until July
3 of 1642, which gave possession to the Conde de la Puebla del Maestre,
and making the argument that the text is, in sobreseí research. ]
Life is so terribly earnest, she had
written. It was not bad, they had a good heart. Perhaps they
also felt their own whims and believed not for him to fit. And he
saw them in thought pale, sad, crying in her bar sit close to
him ever so little of their dignity had been reported. But such illusions
he could no longer devote since it one of his friends to honor
assured Mimi with Mr. Pohlenz Arm in arm, in the zoo to have. So yet!
In fact, he even believed himself not to his euphemisms. Why
lie? She was a coquette, its not worth it. He had forgotten them.
When he was but on the second race on the track again took the side
of the despised rival, inflamed anew of violent pain in him. Mimi was
also made delightful. He had never seen in this costume. It had to
be very new and seemed to be beyond
their means to go.

If they are already on the dress rehearsals riders leave?

Mimi was wearing a enganschließendes, dove-gray dress elegant simplicity.
A bright red rose gracefully adorned the full bust.

A small round, Herrenfilz gray with white wing doves sat coquettishly
on the pretty blond head. And none of mourning, depressed or
thoughtfulness was on this fresh, lively girls face. That was
quite the spirited, carefree, joyous pleasure Mimi who always had so
charmed with her zest for life. He had to take together, so that
stirred him no pain Thränen drew, the pain and anger at the hated
champion.

He separated from his friends in order to come close Mimis. The
grandstand leaving, he met the Behnsche family, from the trolley
from joining Derby. He saluted up without the whole of the sport
in Lust Gegengruß involve an entitlement to receive. Only Lulu
erhaschte he dull, blank look expressive.
For we have seen His star in the
east." Therefore it seems that it was a star from the heavens.

_On the contrary,_ Augustine says (Contra Faust. ii): "It was not one
of those stars which since the beginning of the creation observe the
course appointed to them by the Creator; but this star was a stranger
to the heavens, and made its appearance at the strange sight of a
virgin in childbirth."

The carter cursed but very fast and has reined in his horse: What for
a practice would be that one during the day even on the ground
Betrunken kügelt? And ho! and he! not very civil Traktiert
him with the whip handle. As feels the fool, making him querulousness
to physically engage in impact and shock; Has the grated skin sore.
On the evidence he wore heavy, but the island in the empty sea -
Is this undetected remained. Nennt am not lonely when I listen to the
fearful Rätselraunen of that size, before I reluctantly to shrink,
which I never escape the niederbeugt me, And my other self - call me
not lonely. As I said in centrifugal loneliness in front of him to
other people who do not, I no you are. einsam I among them as a single
I Am It's you - that is the ocean, it should drink me oh! and is
so empty, I fill oh! is full to its fullness. But hovers above the
ocean you and it fills and fills and fills, and drink the emptiness;
is, Thou art, Thou art, which he was lying; humble let me die before
you, my you! Am Nothing already and I soon follow thy floods, your
Rätselraunen roars to Urchoral, Oh You, oh you - my I listen in
silence. Big Giant grew into my love of the circular source,
umschlang the rising wealth of the world, all in one to one, from
the summit to the base, stretching far into the distance a tent over
the full and empty, to surround himself. Oh! Everything but the love
she enclosing itself. Following the ebb tide, and drank of their
yearning sickernden waves sucking in humility, verschrumpft; Enger
and close of Archery Dus umklammernde; seam of the offense urwerdende
art. All-irradiation at the focal point which will burn itself ,
affirmed the life in death because it negates itself. throw me in
Schooss the apple, the apple from the tree of knowledge, from the
Tree of discord, but this sin was around apple.

Sitzt he stalks but, my friend, has holes: one above and below; friend,
he is just a circle of the tangent rotates. After a motif by Dr.
Charles Humphrey Clarke. Because we count on the fingers after
starting the year and month, week, day and hour of day, the our
mother was, until today - and believe the number of such customer
with tens, Einern, comma, decimal: How would our lives = a number?
What is, is, despite testing, counting, measuring, and back
here and forward, close and far, Whether you have not counted them,
if forgotten, is present [and never was] the time. Whether they are
in clouds is still unmatched, whether you have to attack, whether it
away fleucht; Is Everything, Everything eternity , dot-ball. Whether
you have your wings wide and fly in space, but you stay in time.

And if the point you slip deeper and deeper Milliardendezimal
from the point ..... All In The Nothing .... what you remember, only
the number but ists And eternity that God pressed at the time that
your joke like this realize what close to your brain that makes
stuff, your brain miserable.

So Menschlein - funny name, what you do to take only numbers, only
time. Are you in the end, begins eternity. You ask: what help you the
number, the only one driving sand, where no anchor would be liable?

Sun swinging I am from the figures Unnatur! Beyond the sandbank time
the island of love In the sea of eternity - is Ankergrund. You
stand, and everything else revolving 'around. Can you share a whole?
What you unterfängst Menschlein? Marriage the denominator you call a
testament to the counters your mouth. * * * But do you even
Allunitas children to testify; folder mirrors in a circle inside the
one covered. * * * As I see :
Dissension in the things of the world, how each part of the whole
thing falls apart, And yet it all holds together!

- As I see: in harmony things stand, It is looking to find in circles
- drehn From the outside or from inside gesehn: It divides the world
of illusion on the one eternal Urselbsteins; And the harmony bear
fruit as The one being as original product.

What the soul expresses you, throw it out the rhythm. What no steam
crane lifts, the play's version airs on the currents of the period
from the original source of eternal wisdom bewimpelte swimming
barges into the sea of poetry. lies in the eternal darkness unmoving
space, but the poetry torch travels from hand to hand. foolish earth
gods, jugglers torch of wisdom, Migratory Lichtguirlanden fly by
Kahn on Kahn.

But the Magi did not find
Christ resplendent with kingly grandeur. Therefore it was unbecoming
for them to offer Him gifts and homage.

_On the contrary,_ It is written (Isa. 60:3): "[The Gentiles] shall
walk in the light, and kings in the brightness of thy rising." But
those who walk in the Divine light do not err. Therefore the Magi
were right in offering homage to Christ.

_I answer that,_ As stated above (A. 3, ad 1), the Magi are the
"first-fruits of the Gentiles" that believed in Christ; because their
faith was a presage of the faith and devotion of the nations who were
to come to Christ from afar. And therefore, as the devotion and faith
of the nations is without any error through the inspiration of the
Holy Ghost, so also we must believe that the Magi, inspired by the
Holy Ghost, did wisely in paying homage to Christ.

Reply Obj. 1: As Augustine says in a sermon on the Epiphany (cc.):
"Though many kings of the Jews had been born and died, none of them
did the Magi seek to adore. And so they who came from a distant
foreign land to a kingdom that was entirely strange to them, had no
idea of showing such great homage to such a king as the Jews were
wont to have. But they had learnt that such a King was born that by
adoring Him they might be sure of obtaining from Him the salvation
which is of God."

Reply Obj. 2: By proclaiming [Christ King] the Magi foreshadowed the
constancy of the Gentiles in confessing Christ even until death.
Whence Chrysostom says (Hom. ii in Matth.) that, while they thought
of the King who was to come, the Magi feared not the king who was
actually present. They had not yet seen Christ, and they were already
prepared to die for Him.

Reply Obj. 3: As Augustine says in a sermon on the Epiphany (cc.):
"The star which led the Magi to the place where the Divine Infant was
with His Virgin-Mother could bring them to the town of Bethlehem, in
which Christ was born. Such fun, I welcome, because who is his
reputation among his fellow students wanted to say, then had to have
beaten, although the duel itself, from my friends as something
unreasonable, was unnatural. I had my opponents determined to refer
the matter to a entertainment, an hour outside the city, identify,
and both parties appeared for the specified time on the spot. Feierlich
were each led into a room, the Upper Rock and stripped him of the
"Paukwichs ", which means the defense, in which the duel should go
ahead, is created. These arms or Paukwichs consisted of a broad-brimmed
hat with the face gave adequate protection, an enormous, foot width
bandage, over the abdomen was geschnallt . It was leather, and
padded with the color of the compound, to which it belonged, embellished.
A huge tie, while Mr Studiosus Strangler was a stunt Grosch, stood
stiffly around the area of the neck and protected chin, throat, a
part of the shoulders and the upper part of the chest. The arm,
from elbow to hand, covers an old silk hosiery manufactures tools,
called glove. I confess that figure into this weird arms pressed
to take a closer look funny enough. But it granted large security,
because only a portion of the face, upper arm and part of the breast
was the blade of an opponent accessible. I could therefore not contain
the laughter when I mirror my strange habits considered. "Satan in
such a lift and in the term, because of the bad smell on the anatomy
to beat!

"My comrades took this but laugh for an outbreak of boldness and
courage, imagined that it was now the right moment came, and led me
into a great hall, where you with chalk mutual enemy position on
the floor was marked. A fox is calculated on the high honor to
me the "club" may contribute to advancing how the old imperial sword
and scepter vorantrug. That was a beautifully polished steel weapon
worked with large, protective basket, and sharply honed like a
razor. We finally stood facing each other. The theologian, made a
fierce face and gazed with scorn on me, made me even more in the intent
encouraged him to draw hard. We made our way from the old sword, the
blades were bound, which screamed seconds "Go!" and our running
racket in the air and fell rattling on the baskets. I mostly behaved
myself parierend against the really beautiful and executed with great
art attacks of the enemy, because my reputation was bigger,
if I only defended from the outset and only in the fourth, fifth
gear gave him a setback. General admiration followed each course.
They had never been so boldly and quickly to attack, never with
so many peace and defend sangfroid see. My Fencing was the oldest of
"houses" up into the sky collected, and it was now excited and
anxious,
until I myself would attack.

But nobody dared me to bring.

Four courses were over, without having somewhere a bloody blow
was would be. I married for the fifth
aufmarschierte, I showed my friends the place on the right cheek,
where I wanted to meet my theologians.

I liked this watch, even now that I will attack, so he laid
himself covered as possible and guard, even to make an attack. I
started with a wonderful trick, which is a general Ah! followed then
suggested some regular lashes, and folding! sat him my bat in the
cheek. The good theologian did not know how it happened, my secondary
and with a witness jumped Zollstab added, both the wound and said
with solemn voice: "E sistmehralsein Z oll, klafftundblutet, ie A
nsc h - ß."

That meant so much as: Because I'm a good boy a zollanges hole made
into the flesh, it was his honor enough.

Now my friends rushed herzu, the oldest of my hands grasped the
younger reverently regarded the weapon with which the story only
outrageous and indeed had happened.

For who, since the great Renommisten times, could boast, before a
body which he wanted to meet, display and with so many of accuracy
to have met?

Serious gaze met my opponent is
secondary to the inside and offered me his name at reconciliation.

I went to the wounded, the man with just needle and thread his wound
zunähte, and reconciled me with him.

"Thanks to you I am guilty," he said to me, "that you have shown
me so.

I was totally against my will forced to study theology. My
father is a country pastor, my mother a pious woman, who like her son
once in the Rock Choir wants to see. You have decided with a Male,
for a worthless from ear to mouth I can no longer climb pulpit.
"The boys were participating in the brave theologians, the most
secret melancholy with the pain of the old pastor, the misery of
the devout Mama liked thinking, if the news of this incident is
concerned.

But I thought it the greatest happiness of the young, by a short
operation in the world to be free again. I asked him what he now
intend to start, and he openly confessed, that the status of
cavalrymen, or an actor he has always attracted the most would have.
I would have him around the neck may fall for this sensible idea,
because under these two stalls I count most of the friends and
supporters.

I advised him thus to the serious, the driver of nature to follow him
by getting the best recommendation letters to major generals and
to the finest stages promised. The whole Personale but that
the strange duel angewohnt had, I gave splendid feasts, including
my opponent and his companions are not forgotten was.

The former theologians paid me afterwards, in the silence of its debt,
providing him when he was recovered, with money and letters to him
a cheerful, bright career opportunities.

My secret was so little charity than the bright output of a
secret affair remained. They looked at me now like a supreme
being, and I knew some young lady, who even has my noble sentiment
tears shed. The doctors did to me but by a Deputation a glorious
racket over because I did, how they are expressed , "f ü
r denguten G eruchihrer A natomiegeschl agenhabe." The world remains
under all the same characters, it was from the beginning. Evil, even
the unreasonable tribute they like, if it is only in a shiny garb
shows the good, honest virtue of their rough manners, and their
rough, raw appearance is no more than respect, and never gain
applause. * * * * * NINTH CHAPTER . Satan's revenge on Doctor gaggle.
When I saw how well the philosophy and theology in ------ s behind
my ideas which I had previously done, stay back, I presented myself
with zeal to aesthetics, rhetoric, including but on the beautiful
literature. You do not me, I voted in this way my time in vain applied.
Yes, I visited those famous school, a study of bread to drive that
once a man with a wife and child could eat, but the _dic cur hic_
that I quite often in my soul zurückrief, always told me that I
should seek, by any science with a small blow to get me, but as
much as possible in those arts to perfection, today a man of
education is indispensable.

When a job opportunity from a quote from poet, about the beauty of a
painting expertly tell a statue after all Rules for pitiful
to explain to the men for some theological literature, some
legal phrases, some new medical discoveries, some exorbitant
philosophical assertions _in petto_ have I considered imperative
need to express myself with decency in the modern world to be able
to move, and without even a compliment to me would want to do, may
I say that I have in the few months ------ s sufficiently learned.

I have looked after the example of my great idols made in writing
memoirs, but also the smallest events listed, if they are instructive
or curious if they are food for thought or to contain laughter.
I should not miss, my revenge on Doctor gaggle to tell. Doctor Said
had the praiseworthy habit, Sunday afternoon with several other
professors in an inn, a half hour outside the city, to walk.

They used it to steifgesessenen again auszurenken limbs, cones, and to
push all sorts of other Kurzweil to drive, as it behooves for
respectable men, you probably played with closed doors or Whistchen
Piquet and sometimes drank a glass of thirst on what at least the
evil world that ersehen wanted that evening, the gentlemen in the
chaise of the host city to bring them. The venerable
theologian but always used to return long before sunset, they say,
because the woman he no longer doctor time had allowed, he went
cautious step his way, but avoided the wide road and struck the
Wiesenpfad a thirty steps sideways beside those herlief, the reason
was because of the wide path on the beautiful Sunday evening with
pedestrians besäet was the doctor, but the increased redness of his
face and the somewhat uncertain course not the eyes of the world
wanted.

So declared the evil the lonely corridor Schnatterers the
Pious but remained stand, looked after him and said: "Behold, he is
not on the wide path of the wicked, the pious doctor, but the narrow
path which leads to life. "This habit of the Doctor, I had my revenge
plan was built. I watched him on a beautiful Sunday evening, all lured
to the outside world had, and he still came in good time of day from
the inn. kipper naht With humility, I asked him and whether I him
on his way home should accompany the evening seemed
to me in his erudite close again so beautiful.

The doctor kordialen rail a blow to have it presented trusting my
arm in his and began to me about the depths of science to perorieren.

But I beat his eye with blindness, and by me as respectable Studiosus
to walk beside him seemed, I transformed my shape and appeared to
the surprised eyes of the walkers as the beautiful Luisel, the most
notorious prostitute of the city .-- Oh, that Hogarth on that evening
among the Christians spazierengehenden on the wide paths would be
changed!

What a wonderful originals for pious indignation, astonishment
rigid, gloating gloating he sketches in his book down. The front
will remain as they are the odd couple on the walk saw Wiesenpfad
they turned to us to follow and tore the offspring with. What a
tremendous power we rushed the quantity astonished to find out how
a wildfire rumor flew the incredible: "The doctor with the gaggle
Luisel beautiful!" from mouth to mouth of the city. "Woe to the one
by the offense is coming!" cried the Pious. "Did you ever
experienced by a Christian preacher?" "Ei, ei, who would have
sought Ehrsam behind?" spoke with shrug the Halbfrommen.

"If the scandal not only on the public promenade -!" "The Doctor's
easy to make," laughed the world children, "he preaches against
the injustice and goes for walks with the sin." So it reverberated
from the field to in the city, citizens and students, maids and
street boys are told in pubs, at the fountain and at all corners, and
"Doctor chatter" and "beautiful Luisel" was the field yelling and
the slogan for the evening and some the following day.

There is a curvature of the way I made myself go unnoticed by the
dove and closed myself as Studiosus to my comrades, to me the news
quite warm auftischten. The good doctor but quietly moved his way,
noted in his profound meditations sunk, not the insistence
of the quantity, to beat his sight, not the whinnying laughter
that followed his steps. It was expected that some pious women of
his tender Ehehälfte history had taught before nor the theologian
in the house bell went, because on the street is clearly heard the
terrible voice of the angel court, the receiver took it in, and the
clapping, which you heard here and there was much to be full-when
that one would have thought, the woman doctor had the cheek of her
husband with the M unde affected.

Like me, but I thought it happened. After half an hour the woman doctor
sent to me and let me pick. I met the doctor with highly accumulated
cheeks, depressed sitting in an armchair.

The woman in stages up to me and cried, by the eye doctor after
hinüberblitzen love: "This man claims there tonight with you from the
inn to be hereingegangen; tell you whether it is true, you
say!"

I bent me geziemend and assured me that I had never dreamed of, to
enjoy the honor, I had the whole evening at home was. What struck by
lightening, the doctor jumped on the horror his tongue seemed
to have paralyzed: "At home 'was ? lallte it. "Not with me gone? Oh,
who am I to be gone, as with you, Ester value? "" What do I know
with whom the doctor gone? " I gave a smile to reply. "With me not!"
"Oh, you are just too classy, Mr. Studiosus," cried the angry woman,
"what should you do not know what the whole town knows, the old sinner,
the Schandmensch! You probably know his tricks, with the beautiful
Luisel he scharmuziert! "" That gave me the evil enemy pleased,
"raced to the doctor and ran around the room," the evil of Beelzebub,
after my Konjektur the Stinker. " 'The Rush's has pleased you, you
rascal, "cried the Zärtliche, tore took their wide slippers and
ran after him, but I slipped down my stairs and out the house and
thought to myself:" The Doctor is quite right to happen, we should
the devil on the wall paint, because he will.

"The doctor will chatter from then on in his collegiate ausgepocht
and was even with the wildest enthusiasm Konjekturen not awaken,
before his Fatalität students under the Youth's. The colleges are
no longer funds reached those totals by the Professor, as a general
measure was adopted, and therefore, the professor who lived in perpetual
rag with the irreconcilable. This was, so to speak, of the T eufelein
E iindie W irtschaftgeleg t. * * * * * CHAPTER TENTH. Machinations
of Satan will be collected and interrogated, he leaves the University.
At this time in Germany one heard much of demagogues, activities,
arrests and investigations.

We laughed about this because it seemed that we consider everything
through the magnifying glass, which is fear and bad conscience
vorhielten. Liked the way it is in some places but not quite geheuer
been, even in the otherwise quiet ------ s haunted in some strange
minds. I want a brief outline of the state of things enter.

If you at ease among the boys and their umherwandelte banquet attended,
so pushed itself to the observation that many of them inspired
by something other than just the purpose of their bread the
next study, as some keen thought in the morning with their creditors
and their scores (with Pumpregistern Philistines) herumzuzanken,
after the dog to bathe him and Fine Arts to teach, then parade in
front of their window to make beautiful, etc., as had others, and
not a small part, to an ideal cast.

I had the fact that I have to study the drinking stopped, ensuring that
the men are not too much of the world want to escape, but there
was always a mysterious reign, from which I will not be quite
clever. But particularly said that if the heads were enlightened,
because we talked a lot of education, kind of pious German, some
also bubbled over and screamed from the plight of the Fatherland,
from - but that is irrelevant now, of what was spoken, it is enough
to say that it seemed as if a great idea many hearts taken them to
a united quest.

I am comfortable with the thing itself is not evil, it should expect
something restless, so I was like this, because revolutions were
always my element, and only should, in my opinion the whole thing a
more elegant, lighter paint have.

There were people among them , with the agility of a statesman to lead
the crowd knew, which is a style of elegance, an ease of handling
had appropriated as set out in the diplomatic salons with little
trouble and learned with so much decency is executed, but most were
in a fantastic dark advised rumor much of the triad in the unit,
from the idea that they had risen, and had past and future, the
Middle Ages and the chaos of the present time so kneaded together,
that no Theseus from these labyrinths have been found.

I often noticed that one or the other of the luminaries in a confidential
hours entrusted to me like something had, I showed minds, World
Education, money and great connections, properties, not to despise,
and which is always the means to pull studied. But However, if they
were in the process, the dark mystery of the gate in front of my eyes
catch, it seemed, I do not know what, hold back, they claimed, I
did not mind, because of this noble soul assets as they seemed
to use touchstone. but I liked disguised to look like a Jacobin, I
liked by my influence on the volume have aroused suspicion? One morning
met with some of Pedell purring in my room and took me in the name
of His Magnificence caught. The university secretary followed, in order
to arrange my
papers and seal, and gave me to understand that I, as a D emagoge
was arrested.

It gave me a decent room in the university building, zealously cared
for every convenience, and as the Council together was high, I was
led into the hall to discuss my political vomit V to be heard.

For the turtle dove, being a
loquacious bird, represents the preaching and confession of faith;
and because it is a chaste animal, it signifies chastity; and being a
solitary animal, it signifies contemplation. The pigeon is a gentle
and simple animal, and therefore signifies gentleness and simplicity.
It is also a gregarious animal; wherefore it signifies the active
life. Consequently this sacrifice signified the perfection of Christ
and His members. Again, "both these animals, by the plaintiveness of
their song, represented the mourning of the saints in this life: but
the turtle dove, being solitary, signifies the tears of prayer;
whereas the pigeon, being gregarious, signifies the public prayers of
the Church" [*Bede, Hom. xv in Purif.]. Lastly, two of each of these
animals are offered, to show that holiness should be not only in the
soul, but also in the body.
_______________________

FOURTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 37, Art. 4]

Whether It Was Fitting That the Mother of God Should Go to the Temple
to Be Purified?

Objection 1: It would seem that it was unfitting for the Mother of
God to go to the Temple to be purified. For purification presupposes
uncleanness. But there was no uncleanness in the Blessed Virgin, as
stated above (QQ. 27, 28). Therefore she should not have gone to the
Temple to be purified.

Obj. 2: Further, it is written (Lev. 12:2-4): "If a woman, having
received seed, shall bear a man-child, she shall be unclean seven
days"; and consequently she is forbidden "to enter into the sanctuary
until the days of her purification be fulfilled." All the world
reads or writes at this time memoirs, in the salons of the big and
small residences, casinos, and the resources of the medium-sized
cities in the Tabagien pubs and the small one speaks of memoirs,
after the verdict and told memoir after memoir, yes, it might seem,
it had been twelve years Merkwürdige nothing more on earth than
their memoirs.

Men and women take the spring to the people writing to show that
even in a strange time lived, that they too once in a sun have moved
close to their otherwise perhaps inconsistency person a nimbus
of importance awarded. Crowned heads, not satisfied themselves from
their former grandeur, where, as in the pictures fibula, with the
crown on his head went to bed, to have collected, not satisfied
with that they courier to travel from one end of Europe to fly
through to the other to their mutual friendship to insure write
memoirs for their peoples, tell them their fates, their trips.

The Mitwelt is for posterity has been made, you've got her a new
standard that they judge the actions, in the hands where there are the
memoirs.

Generale Grand, famous marshals, far away, the example that Roman
imitate, in the leisure the deeds of peace of the legions under his
leadership worthy of the world to transmit thought, if he himself
is always in the third person talks, have the more modest path,
talking about, as it is men of such weights ziemt when I build from
their memoirs Odeon in a tapered scale and are heartily in front
of the stage. With the battle pieces in great style decorate the scenes,
famous statesmen and women, the great army and its lorbeerbekränzten
eagle, the whole Mitwelt they cast as extras in the background as
from, but they play their Sullas or Brutus, worthy of immortal
Talma.

_Mundus Vult decipi_, di People read memoirs, what keeps me from the
same court also such a "welcome" vorzusetzen? One applies perhaps:
"The shoemaker stick to his lasts, Satan did not write memoirs
with must." Ei! really? And if this is a profession but Satan
would memoirs in the world to spread, but if he as much or
even more than would have seen those warlike diplomats or diplomatic
warriors, which the world with their literary glory fill after their
victory at Bulletins have ceased to mention, if this poor devil is
an urge to be felt, even for a _homo literatus_ to apply?

Yes, I confess it with blushing, the more I love my umhertreibe
Germany, the more irresistible it pulls me out to writers; and
if the women is allowed, their fingers in ink to soil, it will
be but the devil still be allowed? And this brings me to a
second point, they say, perhaps against my literary attempts, I
was not Literatus, no husband of industrial & c.

But for the time I have just the ladies, who, if they still taught
but not learned by profession are, should be mentioned had
the honor, then I occupations to those sons of the camp, the danger
grew, under gray strains, no had time to study _Humaniora_, and
yet so brilliant memoir writing, I say, thirdly, that the prejudice
that I was a devil unstudierter, very wrong, for I am in _optima
forma_ doctor of philosophy
has become, as from my memoirs shows and the diploma which black
and white.

The Archangel Gabriel, as I do with the plan, my memoirs, which
made known, warned me before the face of concern with the so-called
reviewers.

He gave me to understand
that I could get away evil by such spare nobody, and even more
recently, even doctors of theology in Berlin, Halle and Leipzig
hard with you.

I replied to him not without learning that the adage _ "clericus clericum
non decimat" _ quite properly on my relationship with the reviewer
could be applied, but yes, I will have in the Old Testament S atan,
_adversarius_, the adversary is called what also on those passes,
hitting the evidence, I suppose, but from the New Testament, where
I will be slanderers or _diabolos_ called because now _diaballein_
as much as _acerbe recensere_, it must, if he only had a little
logic, the conclusions drawn by itself possible.

The Archangel got, as of course, not a little respect for my learning
in languages and even said that to me in this way could not miss.

It is through these messages from my memoirs, perhaps not that
systematic, peaceful progression of speech can be found , which
works deep thinker as their own minds to be maintained.

It is shorter and longer fragments from my reign, and drift on the
Earth and the inner connection is missing.

We therefore do not blame me, it was not my intention, a painting
of this time to develop enough to take their sound in all bookshops
in Germany .

The memoir writer has achieved his purpose when he himself and his
position at the time which he belongs, and is also reflected when
he developed events, either to him or Mitwelt more distant relationship,
or, if he famous contemporaries and his relationships with them
demonstrates the eye.

And these claims, I believe in my memoirs to have, they are there
at least for me in my work
initiated by my boldness in front of me justify honored before an
audience to perform as a writer.

[Footnote: What the devil here seriously and taught speaks, he
gebärdet almost like a young candidate of theology, of his first
sermon can print!

Editor's Note.]

About personality, about famous descent or bright conditions, the
devil has nothing to say. What to say about it could be, I have in the
section "Visiting Goethe" pronounced and therefore refer the reader
there.

Diligent readers, ie those who bow in return for a quarter of an
hour to fly over, but may therefore this section does not bend over,
because He greatly improved understanding of the other set is modest
and ordinary readers, I have nothing to say on this than they should
put away the book when they're bored. * * * * * Before his servant
with the second arch from the show comes back, , the undersigned
have time, some comments einzuflicken.

It seems to him that Satan possesses quite a dose of vanity, you
realize just how important he speaks of that section, in which he
makes some comments, it would be enough, if he had only hinted that
this or that is to be found, but the reader is recommended, but he
would like the section in which those are, do not bend over, it
is very presumptuous. Then the disorder, in which he submits!
Another such as the editor, but would, if not with the baptismal,
which is now clearly the devil's probably not possible, at least
starting with the incident, according to the chronology of the first.

I had the manuscript volatile durchblättert (to be read before each
arc sufficiently dedicated, I am probably in eight) and found that
it begins with events which are entirely new era, and later in the
mixtures of colorful people and their deeds of ten, twenty years
can occur; you can see well that he is not a good school must have
had.

For greater clarity, and that the interested reader, despite
the devil can choose what he wants, I have the contents of each
chapter provided. erausgebe T he H o * * * * * SIXTH CHAPTER. How the
devil the University and which relates acquaintances he makes.

Germany has always been my most well-liked, and I will admit it, there
is this confession a small underlying selfishness, it is believed there
is to me as the gospel ; those bold philosophical daredevils who at
the risk that I take them to me, my livelihood, and denied me a
ridiculous phantom made, it is still failing, meaning the
lucky children of this nation to destroy, in whose unclouded
imagination I still like a black negro, with horns and claws, with
goat feet and tail fortlebe, as their ancestors have known me.

If other nations through the so-called Enlightenment hinaufgeschraubt
so far that they are, I speak of a God, not even the devil longer
believe, so take care here in this nation even my hereditary enemies,
the theologians, that I remained standing. hand in hand with the
belief in the divinity of progressing in their faith in me, and
how often I have to me so sweet word from their mouths are: "_Anathema
sit_, erglaubtankeinen T eufe l."

I can therefore quite annoyed that I did not earlier on the rational
thoughts I had, my free time at a university to spend in order to see
how I am from semester to semester systematically traktiert.
incidentally, I could have some benefit. All the world is now civilized,
refined, civilized, well-, are taught. Often when I make a good
cut to make imaginary, it is found that I am a good school bag,
a little philosophy, ancient literature, and even some medical
errors, as the magnetisation emerged, I have a course taken during
and after Meßmer made some happy cure.

But this is not done today, so the miserable expressions which
circulate in Germany: eindummer T el EUF, one-armed T eufel,
einunwissender T eufel what appeared to be on my neglected science
education should suggest.

There is no scholar of the sky fallen and I am fallen from heaven, but
not as taught, so I decided to study, and perhaps it is the
philosophy so far as to bring, that I have a whole new system to
reinvent what I promised no small success. I chose ----- s and moved
in the autumn of 1819 to daselbst.

I had, as you can imagine, not failed me, my new position pursuant
to kostümieren. My name was B Arbe, my bright conditions, that is,
I brought a big change that had a lot of cash money, good clothes
and took care of
me well, or as a newcomer, as they say, as a fox market, but I had
already everywhere studied myself in the world around.

No wonder that I have already the first evening polite shareholders,
the next morning, trusted friends and brothers on the second evening
to life and death had on the poor.

You think maybe I exaggerate, I would be cavalier, I would guarantee
to honor and "Hol 'me the devil" as the particulate reinforcement
to set (for "In Honor" and "Hol' me the devil" behave to each other
as the spirit Leni to Spiritus asper), in my situation I can just
as my slogan give Satan.

They were good boys, I found there. It came to pass, but this is as
follows: One can imagine that I was not unprepared, but if you are
German universities removed only knows that one of language, custom,
clothing, and thinking of the rest of the world very different
people living there. I read Lord of the immortal works of lard on
the universities, Sands documents, main on fraternities and country
teams, & c., was but not quite clever and it noted that I have some
abging.

The coincidence helped me out of the trouble I took in a
Retourchaise F.; my partner was an old student, who has eight years
to put the medicine. He had the _savoir vivre_ an old boys, and
I am zeal, in the six hours I had with him the city supply of muses
to him my role to study. It was a big man wohlgewachsener = four
to twenty-five years, his hair was dark and liked previously under
current method be tailored, but was because of the cost Studiosus
shy, shave it to be messy around the head, but it sought to such
often with five fingers from the forehead to hair.

His face was beautiful, nose and mouth particularly noble and finely
formed, the eye had a lot of expression, but what a strange
impression made it! The face was red-brown under the sun, a large
bearded proliferated from the temples to the chin down, and around
the lips hung a fine of beer Henriquatre reddened.

Miene His game was horrible and ridiculous at the same time, the
eyebrows were drawn together and formed dark folds, the eye
looked austere and proud to be measured, and the idea of a sovereign,
a dignity, a royal son would have been worthy.

About the lower parts of the face, especially on the chin, I could
not legally be wise, for they stuck deep in the tie. This garment
seemed the young man is far more care than to suit the rest
of this casual shoe a half-height measured binding of black silk
withdrew, without a wrinkle to throw from the chin up, including the
sternum and was exclusive to this type of fine masonry, on which rested
the head, and his clothing was white in a yellow skirt, which he
Flaus, in tender moments probably Gottfried and what he called food
and beverages announced; these Gottfried Flaus ranged up to one
margin over the knee and became a tightly around the whole body,
on the chest was open and he showed so much left to see the tie,
that the Lord Studiosus not good with clothes to be displayed.
width, wave-leg beating of black velvet dresses joined to the upper
dress, the boots were formed and served dainty immense spurs of the
polished iron foil.

On his head was a piece of red Studiosus cloth in the form of an inverted
flower shards hanged, which he with great art against the wind to
balance knew it looked funny, almost as if a small man with a big
tumbler main Kohl wanted to cover. I had Zacharia immortal Renommisten
too well studied, not to know that when I see a nakedness against the
Lord's brother was his respect for me was lost forever, and I noticed
him, therefore his eyebrow wrinkles, his serious, eye size, as
much it went, and had the joy that it brings me right after the
first hour before striking the Philistines and the Florbesen, "in
German, an old professor and his daughter, the rest of our travel
company represented, excelled.

In the second hour had I already confessed to him that I studied in
Kiel and me several times with luck have beaten, and before we
introduce ------ s, he had promised me a "fixed Pub," which means a
decent apartment, auszumitteln as well as me to get to. The Lord
Studiosus Strangler, so was my partner, was at an inn outside the
city stop and invited me to follow his example and on the complaints
of the journey a glass to drink. The whole window of the inn was set
with red and black caps covered, it was actually a good number
of men Studiosi here to view the new arrivals, usually at the beginning
of the semester indicated cultivated under the normal way to receive.
Strangler, the old, "long mossy" lad, had been underway tickled with
the thought that his comrades us for "fox" would be expected, and
really hit its probably a.

A Chorus of at least thirty Scholl basses from the windows down and
they sang a famous song , which begins: "What comes from there Höh
'?" While singing my companion emerged majestically the chaise, and
he had hardly touched the ground, so he raised his terrible head
and
yelled up to the windows: "What hit her for a Randal on camels!

See ye not that two old houses of this Philistine carts come by?

" (In German: noise but not so much, gentlemen, you see yes, that
two former students from the car to rise.)

The general jubilation broke the heated speakers. "Strangler! You
fides old house, "screamed the Muses sons and rushed down the stairs
into his arms; smokers forgot their long whistles aside, the players
were still billiard cues in their hands. They formed a bodyguard of
the strange armament arrived.

But the forgot nobly in his glory and of my not, I humbly stand
on the side, he made me the oldest and most respected men of
society, and I was a warm handshake to welcome them. It took us to
the wild tumult hinan stairs, you I sat between two mossy heads
to the place of honor, gave me a big Paßglas full of beer, and a
fox had the new arrival cede his pipe.

That was because I ----- s introduced as a student, and I confess it
liked me so sick of people not covered by this. It was an open,
friendly tone, you need not be in the shackles Konvenienz, which
certainly the devil at the annoyances, umherzuschleppen, one spoke
and thought as a linearly liked. If we consider that I'm in
the autumn of 1819 there was, I think you'll not be surprised that
I was from the beginning not quite in the conversation to find knew.

Because once told me those words art (_termini technici_), of which I
have above a small sample gave much to create, and I often
mistook "the pig", which is fortunate, having "bad luck", which
means disaster, as well as "wooden," beat with a stick, with a "bang",
with other weapons to beat. But something else struck me hard, if not
of dogs, Paukereien, broom or the like were discussed, so we fell
behind the glass in extremely transcendental investigations, of
which I initially have little or nothing at all understood, I
remarked to me but the main words, which occurred and when I pulled
into the conversation, so I replied with a serious face: "Liberty,
Fatherland, Deutschtum, folk."

Since I am now also a great Turner was actually devil m ä ß owned jumps
could make, because I also gradually allowed to grow long hair, such
a finely combed scheitelte and a graceful cut-out collar on the German
rock out put me on the blade does not understand evil, so it was no
wonder that I soon in great esteem among the people came . I used
this influence as much as possible to the people about my views and
to guide and educate them "for the world to win." It was in fact a
big part of my fellow frömmelnder a certain tone crept to me even
now not comfortable with, and in my opinion, are not sent to young
people. When I think of the young men in London and Paris, in Berlin,
Vienna, Frankfurt, etc. thought the fun hours I zubrachte in their
circles, and when I dagegenhielt these people, their beautiful,
high growth, its strong arms, their healthy minds, their skills are
not limited only to turn the place, not in the ballroom, only to
exuberant ideas and ideals, not too keen wit, fine to ridicule,
which is the spice of life and excited to apply saw when I do,
instead of beautiful girls nachzufliegen, sneak into the church
looked to one of their professors listen to the Orthodox, so could
I get a bad feeling in me does not oppress.

Once I therefore had a solid foot, I drew some funny brothers to me,
taught them new cards, they sang delight songs, she knew
through humor and the like so as to maintain that more soon followed.
Now I made bolder attacks. I put myself on Sundays with my companions
before the Kirchtüre, mustered with the trained eye temporary ladies,
then moved when the Schäflein were inside and the clerk closed the
stall, with the Meiningen into an inn opposite the church and offered
to all who better to entertain guests as the Doctor N. and Professor
N. in the church of his listeners. marriage lasted three weeks, I
had the larger parties on my side.

The Frömmeren screamed on top of the raw spirit, tearing, and gave
to note that we are Christian fraternity, but it was nothing, my
persiflage had done such good effect that they were ashamed at the
end of course, in the church to be seen , and it belonged to a good
sound, every Sunday before the Kirchtüre to be, but until hieher
and no further.

The inns were filled than ever, there was much to drink, yes it tore
the custom to drink in the competitions to keep, and you will hardly
believe there were even real art drinker, it is preached against
the tearing of some destruction, but the Altdeutsche comforted by the
fact that their "ancestors" by drinking exzelliert have the Frömmsten
could manufacture large mug, and forced and toiled so long as they
like Götz von Berlichingen or even as the Hermann Cherusker could
swallow. the finer, well-educated Of course, it was also the beginning
of an abomination, but I referred them to a job with Jean Paul.

He says that in his unsurpassable Fixlein Quintus: "Jerusalem noticed
beautiful that barbarism, which is often hard behind the most beautiful,
colorful pile of Sciences ascends , a kind of tonic Mud was the
Überfeinerung away with the pile of those in danger, I believe
that one who is considering how far the science students at a rise,
the son of the Muses a certain barbaric Middle Ages - the so-called
fraternity life -- will treat the stählt him again so that the
refinement does not go over the border.

"When a master like Jean Paul, for which I hereby express my sincere
thanks to publicly say so in the matter, what were the minor masters
and disciples, on the other hand? They sat down in the black bar
gera contaminated, "verschlammten" quite efficient in the "barbaric
Middle Ages" and had
by virtue of their genius inwohnenden my older pupils soon become
obsolete. * * * * * CHAPTER SEVEN.

Satan visits the colleges and what he learned was .

However, I described the way and practically lived life did I even
forgot the _dic not cur hic_ and put me up with Ernst T HEORET e.

I heard the philosophers and theologians and hospitierte not
unfleißig among lawyers and doctors. I had to first of all the
philosophers to speak of one of the brightest lights of the university,
when in the distance of his speech was often heard to say, the K
T erlhatden eu ei Felim L b.
_I answer that,_ According to the opinion of the Master (Sent. iv, D,
2), "those who had been baptized by John without knowing of the
existence of the Holy Ghost, and who based their hopes on his
baptism, were afterwards baptized with the baptism of Christ: but
those who did not base their hope on John's baptism, and who believed
in the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, were not baptized afterwards, but
received the Holy Ghost by the imposition of hands made over them by
the apostles."

And this, indeed, is true as to the first part, and is confirmed by
many authorities. But as to the second part, the assertion is
altogether unreasonable. First, because John's baptism neither
conferred grace nor imprinted a character, but was merely "in water,"
as he says himself (Matt. 3:11). Wherefore the faith or hope which
the person baptized had in Christ could not supply this defect.
Secondly, because, when in a sacrament, that is omitted which belongs
of necessity to the sacrament, not only must the omission be
supplied, but the whole must be entirely renewed. Now, it belongs of
necessity to Christ's baptism that it be given not only in water, but
also in the Holy Ghost, according to John 3:5: "Unless a man be born
of water and the Holy Ghost, he cannot enter into the kingdom of
God." Wherefore in the case of those who had been baptized with
John's baptism in water only, not merely had the omission to be
supplied by giving them the Holy Ghost by the imposition of hands,
but they had to be baptized wholly anew "in water and the Holy Ghost."

Reply Obj. 1: As Augustine says (Super Joan., Tract. v): "After John,
baptism was administered, and the reason why was because he gave not
Christ's baptism, but his own . . . That which Peter gave . . . and
if any were given by Judas, that was Christ's. And therefore if Judas
baptized anyone, yet were they not rebaptized . . . I thought to find
solace, and found no consolation, no hope. All my loved ones seem the
grave emerged, over the Alps seemed to blow and sounds of the
action with me to call. As I am so alone on the earth! 'Cried she,
by her blue eyes in the night blue sky appeared. How am I so
alone! - And if I do not have, my Otto! - 'My situation bordered on
despair, the nicest, most charming child in the arms and can not
say how I loved her!

When her tears have not wanted to stop, I finally whispered softly:
"How could I give you angry?" She looked kind of grateful - that you
are well again? And o! as you see today, but not so dark, even your
voice sounds so soft today! Be it tomorrow and let it not be a
whole long day waiting on you. "They approached a house and stayed
before, by the bell went.

And now good night, my heart, 'she said, how happy I sat still
for you on the bench, but the Signora probably waiting too long already.
" I did not know how I did, I felt a hot kiss on my lips, and she
was gone. I noticed the number of my house, but the road I could
not recognize. Only a fountain and in front of her house a Madonna
carved in stone as I could sign for the future observations. I
walked with me unspeakable trouble through the maze of streets and
was not happy when I finally reached my house.

Until the morning light do not sleep. First let me sleep the moon is
not made me look through the window angrinste, and when I preferred
the curtain, it seemed even the head of the angel girl hereinzublicken.

Sometimes also drew the Lamentation confused by my head, I cursed and
finally an adventure to me cost sleepless night. Very early next
morning came at Lord Parter and one of his friends on me. They
wanted to meet me, when my enigmatic beauty brought home to me and
turn neckend that I totally denied it had yesterday. As I them
my adventure, after the greater part, told, they were still
boisterous, and claimed me clearly already mehreremal with the same
lady to have seen.

Became increasingly clear to me that any demon in my shrouded figure,
since even the girl I'm just seemed to know, and I was no less
eager, the girls love, incarnate as the portrait of my face shape
to get.

The two Englishmen had to
pledge not to me, by me before my friend feared ridicule, while
they also promised to send me looking for help.

   After much wandering, we had to devise one thousand lies, to waking
   the curiosity of our friends to deceive, we found finally in the
remotest corners of the city that feature the Madonna and the
fountain.

   I saw the house of the Holden, I saw the bank at the door, on which
I would be blessed, but this was also our way to the end.

   As strangers, we would have risked too much, so far known to us
from the streets, under a class people, particularly the English
as gram is to us in a strange house einzudrängen.

   Mehreremal We moved through the street, always had the door locked,
the windows always envious imposed.

   We distributed our days guarding the promenades, neither my Beautiful,
yet my likeness could be seen.

   Shops called me during this time to Naples.

   So nice to me otherwise the journey would have been, so it was me
in my current-voltage highly fatal.

   Unceasingly pursued me the picture of the girl, in a dream as the
guards I heard the lovely voice whisper.

   Had me singing in the chapel so soft voted? Had the
fleeting image of beauty and managed, what the spirit and the
beauty of so many others could not be about me?

Restless I traveled from.

The trip, so many varied items, the serious business, the allure
of the company, nothing gave me back my peace.

It was the time of the carnival, when I returned to Rome. I had hope
in the crowd throng the object of my desire to find out? My English
friends had departed, I had no one to whom I want to trust me.
Without hope, I had several days to elapse, I did not move me at
the joys of the carnival mix.

What surprised me but when I was on the morning of the fourth day of
the carnival week asked the messenger, as I've amused myself
yesterday.

I told him I had not been in the parade. He astonished, claimed me
from his car with a lady on your arm saw and welcomed it. He
remained silent, a little offended when I said it again. But
suddenly the thought came to me: What if it wanted to be - It was
in all circles to this very tense evening. A magnificent Maskenzug,
where ladies from the noble Roman houses had taken over a role,
should glorify the carnival.

I gave the insistence of my friend, and went with them into the parade.
Do you expect from me no description of this show.

At any other time I would give it all my attention, not only because
it makes my amusement as people would have been very interesting, but
because the character of the Romans is here the most revealing. But
when I say that the whole evening, from all the glories of the parade
just a shadow in my memory, and only remained a bright star emerges
from this night, you will be forgiven if I have the interesting spectacle
your curiosity is not enough satisfy. The long, narrow street
was already filled, as we pass through the _Porta del popolo_
hereintraten. Incalculable undulates waves the crowd confused
and unsatisfied as the eye glides over it, because it is the mixture
of bright colors was no point, it stated. The expectation was tense.
Everywhere one heard by the Maskenzug talk, which will soon be
near. A glittering Applause Call now penetrated by the obelisk in
the Piazza and announced over the ramp of the mask. All eyes were
directed there. From the balconies and scaffolding down flying
them waved scarves and beautiful hands which, by Equipage in the pages
pushed to the carriage of the train to make space. It seam. Certainly,
a beautiful sight!

The gods of ancient Rome seemed to back into the old walls to be collected
in order to celebrate their triumph.

Lovely, majestic groups! What a beautiful silhouette in the figures
of Apollo and Mars, like Venus and Juno, sweet, and you could not hold
for immodesty, but this was just the most beautiful triumph, when the
people with the goddesses impetuousness zurief, the masks off.

Infinity but the applause was as the Countess Parvi, the noble forms
of the face undisguised, as the psyche seam. Surely, this
sweet seriousness, this size would have a gentle Zeuxis and
Praxiteles may inspire.

Naht The evening approached, we equipped the scaffolding to climb,
because the horse race should begin.

I was pretty left on the street, with yearning glances the galleries
and balconies musternd if my beauty does not need to take it.

Suddenly I felt a gentle stroke on the shoulder. , So lonely? "
sounded in the mother tongue is a dear sweet voice in my ear. I saw
around me. A charming mask, in a Tyrolean dress, stood behind me.
Through the caves of the screen flashed the blue eyes, so I was very
surprised.

You ist's - there is no doubt. I silently offered her hand, she
pushed it softly. You evil Otto, 'she whispered, "the whole evening,
I sought thee in vain. As I had to talk to the Signora rid
of them! "The guards moved down the street. It was high time to
look for the galleries. I showed up, she gave me her arm, she followed.
A secret spot behind a pillar offered, they chose it, of course,
carnival, horse racing, all the beauties of Rome were lost to me,
as my silent sky opened, as the mask fell.

Still sweet, yet infinitely more beautiful than she was that evening.
The delicate pallor, which they had brought from the chapel, was
a fine, transparent redness diminished, the eye of radiated even more
luster than it was then, and the deep, almost melancholic seriousness
of the trains, as it appears to me at that time showed that there
was a smile eased, the fine for the fleeting and delicate lips blew.
"" They tacked again a few minutes in silence her eye on my face,
pointed me playing the hair from the forehead and then suddenly
cried: "Now are you's all over again!

Just as in That evening in the chapel, you stubbornly deny me so! you
confess your Luise him yet? "What pain, what should I say?

Then suddenly the signal, the horses ran through the parade. My Beautiful
bent his head downward and I, meaning my little powerful, fled behind
the nearest pillar, not in the moments before the unsuspecting
girls as a gate or anything worse to come. And what I was different,
even if I am asked quite seriously, what would I am the girl, what
could I want from her? And was not such a far-driven curiosity
sacrilege? "While I still struggled with myself, whether it was not
honest, an adventure to abandon the end only one could be foolish,
I noticed that my body was already occupied. herzu I crept closer,
at least to hear who the lucky, because I do without my immodest
proximity to betray, could not see. "How do you like just so scattered
ask ' Luise said, "you even have me yes heraufgeführt." I would
have brought you, this moment I only do to you? Confess thou deceive
me, who has made you inferred?

'With uneasy voice, close to the wines, they insisted on what they said.
You're like our weather over the Alps, just ever so friendly, and now
so cold, so dark. 'That was fast: "I'm not having my Merciful, the
target of your jokes to be,' he said, , and if you look deeper into
the puzzle, my company you are annoying. " He broke in and wanted
to go. I was the suffering of the poor no longer extend behind
and stepped out of the column to me as a resolution of the puzzle
to show.

But how was I! My form, my own face, I believed to be seen. The
surprising similarity - "* * * * * CHAPTER FÜNFZEHNTES. The Intermezzo
.-- The drinker. A terrible cry of fear, a Gerassel, such as
lightning and thunder following each other, broke the narrator.
Which sight! The Jew was outstretched on the ground of the room,
overwhelmed with tea, rubble of his chair and the fine Meissen cup,
which he shattered in fall to him. The anger of such an interruption
was due to all the faces to read; zürnend the ladies turned their
gaze from this spectacle of the men did not face him help. He
himself, however, remained subject seconds without stirring, and
looked up surprised.

I jumped to help him, I lifted him up and saw me about another chairs
around, what I do could be applied. But a relative of the house
whispered into my ears, I want to do that we will continue, my tutor
did not appear in this society to please. We have followed the Wink
and took our hats. When I am my lady leave
she said to me a lot of nice and invited me, they quite often to
see my poor Hofmeister acknowledged they do not look.

It came as cold as possible and let him pull. schallte us to laughter,
when we left the room, and I had with my incarnation as much human
vanity dressed that I am extremely annoyed that laughter.

How happy I would have the interesting story of that young man
belongs to an end, how much more important and Psychology, I would
have garde of the uniform-loving Miss erlauschen can, and I was not
even made this very, young hearts that evening to conquer?

A young, rich, I must say, nice man to travel there, where he goes,
friendly eyes, which he so easily into the hearts recoveries - and
that everything I had unsanded the care of the elderly spoiled, I
had to choke him, as we sat in the car. "Was it not enough," said
I, "that thou with thy fierce bearded Jews the delicate hand of the
Merciful sensitive test brush?

You need also the wife of Wollau through your untimely laughter insult?
And little did you made it well again, so bring everything you anew
against yourself. What were you because the S chwabenm ä del, that
you can use their beauty to the Teetischen Berlin preach? You can
because even in a Fine China say they have a Teegesicht?

And now that you pointed ungracious words of the woman had inserted,
now, when everything on the first good topic which was discussed
this evening, listened, now you fall, as the high priest Eli blessed
in the second chapter Samuelis, backwards into the hall and
zerschmetterst - not their own hollow skull, like that Jewish decent
pope - no!

a dainty carved armchair and a cup of Meissen porcelain, say, say,
poor fellow, how you caught it just? "" In your office, Mr. Satan,
I would not be so arrogant unsereinen against, "he replied morose.
"You know that you no power over my soul deserve; anderthalbtausend
years since I know your tricks and probably scheming.

But the Elis history is concerned, I want you to pour pure wine,
provided that you accompany me in an inn because the läpperige tea
here, which is unlikely in China rinse the cups would be even
worse with the Arrack, have given me very miserable ".

I was in front of a restaurateur, and led the injured Doctor Mucke
inside. It was already fairly deep into the night, and only a few,
but real drinker in the host room. We put at a table with four or
five Such nocturnal companions and I had for the elderly Burgundy
order and routine in Malabar, which the drinkers certainly did not
understand, I asked him to tell the story. After the eternal Jew by
some Schlücker had recovered, he began: "I believe it is a part of
the curse that rests upon me that I, as soon as I am in higher
echelons of society dare, be ridiculous, a few examples may suffice
thee.

"You know that I have to give me the boredom of life on earth
distribute, sometimes a love trading search - now pucker your face
but not so ironic, I am a stereotype edition of a strong fifties, and
such may come onto the ice dare. Now I had once in a small Saxon town
on a beautiful grain.

I had been a few days' entrance into the parental home, and the
little coquette seemed not at all averse. I dressed myself
carefully in order to please her, I scherwenzelte about them when
they went walking, short, I was a dude so outstanding, as one on the
patch went from Leipzig. In the town belonged to the good tone, in the
morning nine clock on the house of his beautiful pass, she looked
out, it was with grace and the hat pulled slightly less geseufzt.
"This led me quickly and pulled abgemerkt now dutifully, when the clock
bell, nine hummed, in that house over, and I had the pleasure to
see how my angel every time the window herausschaute Huldreich and
smiled.

One morning it was very kotig on the street, so I went to the
white silk stockings to spare, on tiptoe and took steps like a cock.
But before the beauty of my home was clean, the dirt pile into
big returns together, because Dad was a kind of police inspector and
the residents had a good example, how my heart rejoiced over this
cleanliness! I was able to occur there solid, I could with the right
leg, when I made my compliments, delicate extravagance without me
dirty.

My angel looked down Huldreich, happily, I prefer the hat of
the schönfrisierten toupee, swivel it in a bow and daring - or
misfortune - he entwischt my hand, he runs like an arrow into the
garbage aufgeschichteten that only the tip hervorsieht . 'How nice
Schiller says: "Have a look after the grave of His effects, nor the man
to send back.'" So I was like niedergedonnert in the garbage. Should
I use in the delicate position with fingertips pull the hat? But
then there was reason to fear that he was totally ruined, I should
totally _chapeau bas_ move, as one of the gallows without a hat
or the Toll House arisen?

"As a silver fire bell is now the merry laughter of my Dulzinea
to my ear; brummend like the dead serious bells, bell the grave of my
hope, answer ten basses from the opposing Coffeehouse; hussar
lieutenant, Schreiber, traders shout from an open window, and Hussa,
Sultan, such 'lost' my voice sounds terrible rival, the Count
Lobau. An English mastiff from people crashing out length,
packs the lost hat with experienced snout, runs up to me, is on the
hind legs, lest with his paws on my shoulders and presented me the
dripping _corpus delicti_. "What I tell you here with a lot of
words told my best, was the work of a moment, how angefroren I was
dagestanden, and only the intrusiveness of the polite dog gave me
my version again. whinnying, Scholl jauchzendes laughter from the
cafe, and also with her all the windows were filled with laughter;
and when I, a gentle glance, the last hinauflaufen left, I saw the
handkerchief battistene pushed into the mouth, so as not to burst
out laughing.

Since I lost the new version, I angrily grabbed his hat and hit him
in the face of the mastiff, but the beast does not understand fun,
they grabbed me, in the delicate breast strips, I left her this Spolí
rushed me and made it, through thick runaway and thin, but the beast
was followed, and other dogs and streets boys rushed in and the
hunting was terrible until the end when I breath into the portal
of my inn crashed. "The fact that it was my love, you think, especially
as I afterwards learned, the coquette had all their worshipers
at this hour in the cafe ordered to parade my daily window to
admire! "I regret the poor of heart, but he calmly took his glass,
drank and then went on:" Can you assure as hundsföttisch, I always,
but especially in the new enlightened time, where you so incredibly
much to the decorous despair and would like to keep when the noble
Reifrock the label a little ungentle affected. That
is why it is me in banquet is always a fearful hell. umhergegeben
sauce is thick, so I can see already in the spirit, so that I tremble
and they will spill.

Then comes the beggar in me, so I cut off the cold sweat from the
sauce boat rattle in my hand trembling terribly, it fluctuates, I
drive the other hand afterwards, and - right, my friendly neighbor,
the whole Bescherung on the new Drap d 'or or Genoese Sammetkleid
that everything in the most beautiful floats fats.

But finally I have such a Fegefeuertour through without sauce to
spill, without a glass umzuwerfen, without a spoon to drop, without
the lap dog on the tail to come, without the daughter of the house
the largest Sottisen to say, when I politely and wants to be spicy,
so I shall take any further mischief to the conclusion that I pull
with shame as it is today. "" Well, "I asked," and what today we
threw you into the middle room?

"" When the man his story boring anhub how he had a few Pfaffen hear
and sing like a pretty girl he was nachgelaufen - what you can do
anywhere, without being in Rome to be - as yet I was bored, which
is one of my Hauptübel, and so I sat, around me to entertain my chair
backwards in motion and rocked me quite comfortable. All at once,
before I versah which suggested the chair with me over backwards,
and I was - "" I have unfortunately seen as you lagst, "I said,"
but how can you only honetter society so completely forgotten all
the good custom and with the chairs swing. "" Be quiet now and bring
me to the damn story, I had no luck tonight made, that is everything.

_Bibamus, diabolical! _ "said the old man by himself with a clever
example preceded and then smile at the dark red glass was:" This
one is kosher, Mr brother, good Burgundy, Chambertin real and at
least twenty years old. You might I laugh now or not, but a good
old wine of Chen Südstamme is still my passion, and I would argue
that the world now looks just about as bad, because so much tea,
spirits and beer, but the less wine is drunk. " "You could be right,
Jew!"

"How handsome," he said in zeal continued, "such as stately measures
otherwise the landlord houses. Width, compact, robust design, the
dreispitzigen hat a little on the side that faces red, fiery eyes, the
bluish-playing noses, bellies honette - so they were that high, with
gold complains battered sea pipe in his fist, ceremoniously greeting
to room.

If the hat hung on the nail, the floor in the corner was the host of
the progressive well-known place to which he has been adhered to
and that had often been christened after him.

The landlord presented with one, well bekomm's' wine-jug before Ehrsam
drinker, the usual cup neighbors were found for certain hour, we drank
a lot, we are talking little, and moved to the specified hour home.

Reply Obj. 3: Christ's Passion is the common cause of the opening of
heaven to men. But it behooves this cause to be applied to each one,
in order that he enter heaven. And this is effected by baptism,
according to Rom. 6:3: "All we who are baptized in Christ Jesus are
baptized in His death." Wherefore mention is made of the opening of
the heavens at His baptism rather than at His Passion.

Or, as Chrysostom says (Hom. iv in Matth.; from the supposititious
Opus Imperfectum): "When Christ was baptized, the heavens were merely
opened: but after He had vanquished the tyrant by the cross; since
gates were no longer needed for a heaven which thenceforth would be
never closed, the angels said, not 'open the gates,' but 'Take them
away.'" Thus Chrysostom gives us to understand that the obstacles
which had hitherto hindered the souls of the departed from entering
into heaven were entirely removed by the Passion: but at Christ's
baptism they were opened, as though the way had been shown by which
men were to enter into heaven.
_______________________

SIXTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 39, Art. 6]

Whether It Is Fitting to Say That When Christ Was Baptized the Holy
Ghost Came Down on Him in the Form of a Dove?

Objection 1: It would seem that it is not fitting to say that when
Christ was baptized the Holy Ghost came down on Him in the form of a
dove. For the Holy Ghost dwells in man by grace. But the fulness of
grace was in the Man-Christ from the beginning of His conception,
because He was the "Only-begotten of the Father," as is clear from
what has been said above (Q. 7, A. 12; Q. 34, A. 1). Therefore the
Holy Ghost should not have been sent to Him at His baptism.

Obj. 2: Further, Christ is said to have "descended" into the world in
the mystery of the Incarnation, when "He emptied Himself, taking the
form of a servant" (Phil. 2:7). But the Holy Ghost did not become
incarnate. Therefore it is unbecoming to say that the Holy Ghost
"descended upon Him."

Obj. 3: Further, that which is accomplished in our baptism should
have been shown in Christ's baptism, as in an exemplar. But in our
baptism no visible mission of the Holy Ghost takes place. Therefore
neither should a visible mission of the Holy Ghost have taken place
in Christ's baptism.

Obj. 4: Further, the Holy Ghost is poured forth on others through
Christ, according to John 1:16: "Of His fulness we all have
received." But the Holy Ghost came down on the apostles in the form,
not of a dove, but of fire. Therefore neither should He have come
down on Christ in the form of a dove, but in the form of fire.

_On the contrary,_ It is written (Luke 3:22): "The Holy Ghost
descended in a bodily shape as a dove upon Him."

CHAPTER ELEVENTH. Who the devil is in the Tiergarten met. I sat,
it may soon be three years, on a beautiful summer evening
in the Tiergarten in Berlin, not far from Weber's tent, I looked
at my colorful world around me and had great pleasure in her ; it
was once again become quite different than at the time devout anno
thirteen and fifteen, where everything is so honest and, as they
called, received old German that I am not a little ennuyierte.
Especially on the inside was beautiful Berlin I got quite annoyed,
otherwise it went Sunday afternoon with Saus and Braus after
Charlottenburg or with jubilation and laughter along the Linden
after the zoo also alone at the time -?

But now it went up again since. The old man was the new genres, lust
and life as previously attracted by the green trees, and the devil
had something like times before, and was a valued, respected man I
could not include a walk through the diverse society make. The brilliant
military from all batches with their equally different charged beauty,
the elegant and graceful Elegantinnen, the mothers, their daughters
plastered to launch the well-fed councils, with a good grip of
cash money in his pocket and counts, barons, citizens Students and
craft lads, decent and indecent society - they are all around me,
they are all based on the rational way, to be my!

in cheerful mood, I went further and further, I was always happy and
cheerful. As I saw, among the swaying throng the crowd a few men at a
small table sitting, which did not quite happy with my company wanted
to suck. The one I could only see from the back, there was a small,
agile man who seemed much to his neighbor to speak out, frequently
gesticulated with the poor and was larger after each sentence
he spoke, a considerable drop Franz dark red wine to it. The other
might well advanced in years, he was poorly but cleanly dressed,
bent his head in one hand while the other with a long, mysterious
figures walking in the sand wrote, he heard with turbid smile to
the speakers and it seemed him little or very briefly to reply.
Both characters had something to me so familiar, and yet I could
not be judged in the moment who they were. The small Buoyant finally
jumped on, pushed the old man's hand, ran with short, quick steps,
hoarsely to himself, laughing, and having lost in the crowd soon.
The old man looked after him melancholy, and laid the
tiefgefurchte forehead in hand. I bethought myself to all my
acquaintances, not suited to this figure; durchflog me a hint, it
should be - but what the devil needs a lot of compliments on it?

I approached, I sat on the chair, which the others had left, and
offered the old man a good evening. Slowly he raised his head and
struck the eye. Yes, he was there, it was the eternal ud e. J "_Bon
soir_, brother," I said to him, "it is schnackisch that we see each
other in the Tiergarten in Berlin again, it will probably be as
eighty of years, that I no longer had the pleasure? "He looked at
me questioningly. "So, you're you?" He finally pressed out.

"Lift you away, with you I have nothing to do!" "Only not so
coarse, Eternal," I gave him the answer, "we have some midnight
vertollt together, when you were still kicking on the ground
and quite certainly lived systematically lied to yourself at the ground
soon to bring. But now you are, I believe, a pietistic become. "The
Jew did not reply, but a sneer, which has his weathered trains flew
like lightning through the ruins, showed me that he and the church
still was not quite agree.

"Who was there just across from you?" I asked, when he still insisted
on his silence. "The was the Kammergerichtsrat Hoffmann, "he replied."
So, the? I know him quite well, although he always evade me like an
eel, I was him but to his nocturnal fantasies of some help, that he
himself often fearful and anxious, and I was not as his own doppelganger
on the shoulders compatriots, when he wrote in his Kreisler? When he
turned and there seems to spook, he called his wife that they were
put to him, because it was midnight, and his lamp burned dim '.--
So, so who was it?

And what he wanted from you, Eternal? "" That you curvature of your
derision! Are you not the same forever as I do, and pushes you
the time is not even on your back? Give the name no more, which I
hate! But what the Kammergerichtsrat Hoffmann concerns, "he continued
quietly," so he goes around to get people to consider, and if he finds
something Aparts in itself, such a blow from the fool's house or a
puncture from the ghost empire, so he is happy bass and characterized
it with words or with the pen. And to me because he feels something
peculiar may have, so he sat with me, discussed with me and invited
me to him in his house on the Gendarmenmarkt to visit. "" So, so! And
where do you actually come from because if you may ask? "" Recta
from China! " Ahasverus replied. "A boring nest, it looks just like
before fifteen hundred years ago, when I was there for the
first time." "In China, were you?" I asked laughing. "How come you
do to the boring people, even for the devil is too little fun?"
"Let this," said that, "you know, like me the trouble by pushing
countries. I listened as the morning sun of the new century behind
the Mongolian mountains opened up, the head of the long wall of China
running, but it would still not with me come to an end, and I would
rather a hole through the garden wall of the heavenly kingdom pushed
, like an old Aries than that up there my hairs would be crooked.

"Tears rolled from the old man's eyes. The weary eyelids would close,
but the oath of the Eternal keep it open until he can sleep when the
others dead. He had long been silent, and indeed, I could
not for the poor without an emotion of pity view. It was directed
again .-- "Satan," he asked with a trembling voice, "what's clock
is in eternity? "" There will be dinner, "I gave him the answer." O
midnight! "he groaned," when you finally come cool shade and fall
on my burning eyes?

When you nahest, hour, where the tombs are open space and for the inen
E, which is then allowed to rest? "" Pfui cuckoo, old Howler!
"I broke off, upset about the wine court manners of the eternal
wanderer." How do you like just such a poetic lament up? Believe me,
you can you Congratulations, that thou hast a little Aparts. Some
funny soul is at some place much worse than here on Earth. We have
here but its still fun, because people must ensure that the great
pranks not expect. If I so much free time would like you, I wanted
to enjoy life differently. _Ma foi_, brother, why do not you go to
England, where we now have the adventure of a galant queen publicly
zertiert?

Why not to Spain, where it now soon losbricht Why not in France, it's
important to have Gaudium how the walls of the Empire and with überpinselt
old tapestries of Louis the Fourteenth times, which they brought
from exile have behängt. I can assure you, it looks even from
foolish because the wallpaper is all too short, and through the
cracks still looks serious and threatening the empire, such as the
blood of the murdered man, the man with no plaster can efface and
which, as often it is white anstreicht, still with the old colored
Color durchschlägt! "The old man had listened carefully to me, his
face had become more cheerful, and he now laughed wholeheartedly.
"You are, as I see, still the old man," he said, and shook my hand,
"know every little aufzubinden, and if he just came from the bosom
of Abraham!"

"Why," I continued, "why do you are not longer and more often here
in the good and honest in Germany? Can you see something funny
than this Duodezländer! Because everything is so - but silent, as is
one of the secret police around. It could be something snapped
and the eternal Jews
and the devil as a restless minds after Spandau send.

But in order for something else to come, why are you doing here in
Berlin?

"" That has its own explanation, "replied the Jew."

I'm here for a poet to visit "." You a poet? "I said astonished."
How are you on this idea? "" I have recently read a thing, it says
novella, in which I played the main role. It led the stupid title: D
erewige J ude, in fact, it is a nice seal, which brought me great
comfort!

Now let me see the man and speak of the wondrous things has done.
"" And here is to live in Berlin? " I asked curiously. "And how is
he?" "He should live here and is called FH I was also referred to the
street, but my memory is like a sieve through which it pours
moonlight!" I was not a little anxious, as the Eternal Jew when a
poet would produce, and decided to accompany him.

"Listen, old age," I said to him, "we have always been on a good foot
with each other stood, and I hope not, that your attitudes will
change against me. Otherwise -" "To threaten is just not necessary,
Mr. Satan , "he replied," because you know I'm not from you and know
your tricks well, but why did you get me as an old acquaintance
very pleasant and fairly.

Why do you ask for? "" Well, you could me a favor proving myself to the
poet, you are in a novella abkonterfeite, you. Would not you? "" I see
not what an interest you can have it, "replied the old man and
looked at me suspicious.

"You might spook some in the sense you have and maybe even with bad
intentions on the good man's soul flatter. This way, you just beat
out of mind, because the writes novels so pious, that the devil
himself can not hurt him .-- But for my sake, you can respond.
"" That I think, too. What this soul is concerned, I'm little by
poets and the like, which is lightweight product, which the
little devil demand. It is my only interest in the man himself, what
attracts me to him. By the way, in this costume, you can here in
Berlin does not make visits, old man! "The Eternal Jew covered with
pleasure his abgeschabtes brown Röcklein with large Perlmutterknöpfen,
his long jacket with wide Schößen, his short leg zeisiggrünen clothes,
on his knees into brownish played. He put the black red, triangular
Hütchen over the ear, took a long walking strong in the hand,
introduced himself to me and asked: "Am I not dressed as King Solomon
stately and graceful as the son Isais?

What did you just suspend me? Admittedly, I do not like you false
beard, no glasses sitting on my nose, my hair is not in the amount
_A la_ madness. I have my body in any quilted skirt pressed,
and my legs shiver not imagine wide leg dresses, which of course
Mr Bocksfuß cause might have been - "" These are not offensive here,
"I replied the old Jews.

"Know we have today after the fashion dressed, if one wants to make
his fortune, and even the devil makes them no exception. But listen
to my proposal. I will provide you with a decent suit, and you ask
for my majordomo before.

In this way, we can easily get access to houses, and how's you I
wanted to retaliate if your poet in us an aesthetic tea imported!
"" Aesthetic Tea, what is that? In China, I have some degree tea
swallowed, Blumentee, Kaisertee , Mandarinentee
even camomile tea, but tea aesthetic was never there.

"_O sancta simplicitas!

_ Jew, how far are you back in the culture! Knowest thou not that
these companies are, where you have tea leaves and some nice ideas
pouring enough hot water to people and thus opening up all time?

Sugar and rum does everyone wish to be amused, and there are
excellent. "" Have I ever heard such a thing, I read Hans, "assured
the Jew," and what it costs when you must see's? "Expense ? it cost
nothing, as that one from the house of the woman kisses the hand,
and when her daughters sing or mimic give performances here and
there a wonderful 'or' divine 'can slip. "" This is a great nation
has become in the last eighty years.

At times of Frederick the Great still knew nothing of these things.
But of fun because you can go. Because I feel this huge
sand desert of boredom.

"The visit was thus on the next day. We talked about us on the role
that I as Eleven = up of two Twenty-three years, he would have to play
Hofmeister, and captions. I excellent entertainment promised me the
morning of days. The Eternal Jew was so old, unbehilfliche manners,
did so not in the world today to send him in that guise for a tutor
for a few outstanding Pedant had to keep.

I took to myself so much elegance, as the devil is always only possible
to apply the Old and thereby quite embarrassed to bring.

Dispersal was also most needed him because he had the last time on
his solitary walks such an approach of sanctimony given that he was
a Pietist to be threatened. The poet, for what I am led to the eternal
Jew, a man of middle age, took very good to us. The Jew is called
Doctor Mucke and put me in his Eleven, the young baron of Stobelberg
before. I directed my attention outer half of the beautiful engravings
on the wall, on the titles of many books that umherstanden to the
unsplit my ear and if it was possible to go unnoticed, even my eye
on the entertainment to take part . The old man began with a praise
on the novel of the eternal Jew, but the poet, much too fine and formed,
as his hosts that he would have to leave this Lobe, the conversation
turned to the legend of the eternal Jew at all, and that it way to
those that worked.

The Eternal cut, to astonishment of the poet, grim faces, such as,
inter alia, alleged that there was in the tale of the eternal Jew a
deep morality, since the Verworfenste among the people always seem
to be the one who deceived his pain on to the hope of being omit these
have aroused hope.

And we must consider (1) His
manner of life; (2) His temptation; (3) His doctrine; (4) His
miracles.

Concerning the first there are four points of inquiry:

(1) Whether Christ should have led a solitary life, or have
associated with men?

(2) Whether He should have led an austere life as regards food,
drink, and clothing? Or should He have conformed Himself to others in
these respects?

(3) Whether He should have adopted a lowly state of life, or one of
wealth and honor?

(4) Whether He should have lived in conformity with the Law?
_______________________

FIRST ARTICLE [III, Q. 40, Art. 1]

Whether Christ Should Have Associated with Men, or Led a Solitary
Life?

Objection 1: It would seem that Christ should not have associated
with men, but should have led a solitary life. For it behooved Christ
to show by His manner of life not only that He was man, but also that
He was God. But it is not becoming that God should associate with
men, for it is written (Dan. 2:11): "Except the gods, whose
conversation is not with men"; and the Philosopher says (Polit. i)
that he who lives alone is "either a beast"--that is, if he do this
from being wild--"or a god," if his motive be the contemplation of
truth. Therefore it seems that it was not becoming for Christ to
associate with men.

Obj. 2: Further, while He lived in mortal flesh, it behooved Christ
to lead a most perfect life. But the most perfect is the
contemplative life, as we have stated in the Second Part (II-II, Q.
182, AA. 1, 2). Now, solitude is most suitable to the contemplative
life; according to Osee 2:14: "I will lead her into the wilderness,
and I will speak to her heart." Therefore it seems that Christ should
have led a solitary life.

Obj. 3: Further, Christ's manner of life should have been uniform:
because it should always have given evidence of that which is best.
But at times Christ avoided the crowd and sought lonely places: hence
Remigius [*Cf. Catena Aurea, Matth. 5:1], commenting on Matthew, says:
"We read that our Lord had three places of refuge: the ship, the
mountain, the desert; to one or other of which He betook Himself
whenever he was harassed by the crowd." Therefore He ought always to
have led a solitary life.

_On the contrary,_ It is written (Baruch 3:38): "Afterwards He was
seen upon earth and conversed with men."

_I answer that,_ Christ's manner of life had to be in keeping with
the end of His Incarnation, by reason of which He came into the
world. Now He came into the world, first, that He might publish the
truth. Thus He says Himself (John 18:37): "For this was I born, and
for this came I into the world, that I should give testimony to the
truth." Hence it was fitting not that He should hide Himself by
leading a solitary life, but that He should appear openly and preach
in public. The other two men had finished their game, however, and
is approaching the table at which sat the Englishman, and I threw a
quick glance at my list and told one was a young Frenchman, Marquis
de Lasulot, the other by Baron Garnmacher, a German.

The Frenchman was a small, stocky, looking males. His black hair and
dickgelockte black whiskers were very nicely to a little burnt complexion,
red cheeks and highly flexible, friendly black eyes, full lips around
the well-fed and the chin is pulled in that beautiful, inimitable
blue, which the ladies will be so well liked and in England and Germany
are far rarer than in southern countries is found, because of the
beard growth of dark, dense and even earlier to be maintained as
there. appears to be a Incroyable the Chaussee d'Antin!

The elegant negligees, as up to the slightest little thing out of the
stubborn taste of Paris four months ago (so long loved the young
Lord's already dead) have wanted. From the graceful negligence with
umgebundenen East India scarf, the little blaßroten shawl with a
needle _A Duc de la Berry_ together, down to the leggings, which were
then for three days inside zuknöpfte, down to the shoes which, in
order to be fashionable apply to the tips after the big toe is hinneigen
and without paragraph had to be, I say to those little things, to
an uninitiated and slightly miserable, one of the mysteries is
well established, important and imperative need to appear, was He
conscientiously and according to the latest flavor of the morning
dressed.

He just seemed his only Jean convertibles the reins in his hand is
pressed, the whip of whalebone hardly smoothed into the corner of
the car to have leaned in and now my café hereingeflogen to be more
to be seen than to see, more to talk than to listen. lorgnettierte
He fleetingly the gentleman in the armchair, seemed to join the
immensely Rumglas and the smoke machine, that the front had a little
dismay, clings nevertheless on the side of His Lordship and began
to speak: "Are you the ball tonight to visit my Lord, to us
_Monseigneur le diable_ there?

Are there many ladies, sir? I ask, I ask you, because I have little
acquaintance here. "My Lord, I wish my car might offer to both
of us this lead? It is a very honettes thing, this car, I have the
honor to assure you, sir, he took me to four months ago Latonnier
eighteen hundred francs tasted. My Lord, you do not need a
servant with them, if I have the honor to invite you to
accompany my Wunderkerl Jean is a servant of one. "That was a
gallop on the tongue of the Incroyable.

His Lordship seemed to not be very important to built. He looked at
the first words of the rigid French, then directed its head a little
in order to free his right hand, seized with this - the first
movement has a half-hour - the goblet, sipped some trains rum, smoked
snugly on his cigar, put his head back on the right hand and the
Frenchman seemed more to the eye than the ear to listen and respond
in this way to want to, because he said not a syllable at the invitation
of the loquacious Frenchman and seemed , like his fellow countryman
Shakespeare says, "The double teeth gate" before his speech organs
have to have. The Germans had, during that conversation approached
the table, made a polite bow and a chair made to the Lord. It allows
me to him even a little perspective. It was what we in Germany
gewichstenjungen M ann cares to mention, a dandy, he had blonde,
aspiring to the heights of the hair, to the somewhat low forehead
is a closed butt allerliebsten grayling, the mouth hung a Stutz
Bärtchen the ends of which were hinaufgewirbelt his face was
good-natured, the eyes had an expression of wisdom, of how
well-fitted light on a woodblock
grobschattierten no effect evils demographic aging.

His clothes seemed like his manners, he borrowed from various nations
to have.

His rock with lots of buttons and lace was of Polish origin, he was
on Russian manner on the chest quilted four inches high, was
followed by exciting on the hips and formed the waist so slim, when
a pretty Altenburgerin he also had to close breeches, but not because
he rode himself, so those were only made out of thin Nanking
manufactures, for that reason also liked the spores more ornament
and a Fine, high-speed attention than driving a horse serve.

A fine Italian straw hat completed the costume chosen . I see it the
same in the way he takes the chair and sets down to whether
he lived much in circles, where even the slightest movement by the
laws of decency and custom, is fine, the dandy was passable, but far
from fine with that lightness as the Frenchman and the Englishman
showed itself in his careless, half sitting, half lying position
more dignity than those who did so well maintained, just as
it always been a dancing master can teach. These observations to
which I perhaps far have used more words than the readers
of these memoirs seem necessary wants, I made in a moment, because
you do not think that the young Germans I sat so long, until I had
him duly abkonterfeit.

The Marquis turned immediately to his new neighbor. "My God, Lord
of Garnmacher," he said, "I want to despair, because the English
Lord seems not to understand me, and I'm his language powerful
enough to the conversation with liveliness due to lead, because
I ask you, my Lord, there is a bit boring, as when three beautiful
young people sit together and nobody understands each other? "" On
honor, you are right, "replied the dandy in better French than I would
have believed him," you may need to think that a Turk with a
Spaniard playing billiards, but I do not see, as we under these
circumstances with the Lord can chat.

"_J'ai bien compris, Messieurs, _" said the Lord very quietly next
to his cigar over, and took back some rum to it. "Is it possible,
Mylord?" cried the Frenchman happily, "that's very good that we
can understand! Marko, bring me sugar water! Oh, that's great that
we understand what a beautiful thing it is to the message, even
in a place like this. "" Truly, you are right, Best, "were the
Germans," but we do not want to umherschlendern together a little
to the world's most beautiful patterns?

I call you beautiful ladies of Berlin, Vienna, from all kinds of cities
in my homeland, I have, I had great friends and top connections
and may hope at this verfl ------ some place to take me to the had
the good fortune to know; Mylord called us the beauty of London,
and you, dearest Marquis, Paris can find us here in the small show.
"" God will protect me, "eagerly replied the Frenchman, after he
saw the clock," Now, this early hour to see the beautiful patterns
the world?

Do you, sir, I have in this _détestable purgatoire_ so much lost all
sound good, that I am now on the promenade should go? "" Well, now,
"replied the dandy," I mean just in case we have nothing better
to do know. Are we not here as the three men in the fiery furnace?
Shall we sing the praises well as those? But if you go, my Lord,
propose us a pastime, so I like to stay here. "" My God, "said the
Incroyable," this is not a decent cafe than in Germany you have none?
And there is our entertainment? Can we not talk as much as we
want? Tell yourself Mylord, it is not a good house, you can better
hope this salon? No! _Monsieur Le diable_ has taste in such things,
you have to leave him. "_Une Confortable maison_!"

Mylord waved and muttered the Frenchman applause. "_Et Ce salon
confortable_!" "Good table, sir?" asked the Marquis, "now, which
will also be there, I think me, you probably feeds on the card? But,
gentlemen, what do you say to that if we do something to entertain
each other in our lives wanted to tell? I hear so much interesting
adventure, and Baron Garnmacher which probably has as much experience
as Mylord? "" _Goddam_! That was a sensible idea, sir, "said the
Englishman, he with the whip on the table suggested the feet of
herabzog the chair and with great dignity in the way Fauteuil
continued, "even a glass of rum, Marko!" "I agree with," cried the
German, "and make you happy about your thoughts my compliments, Mr.
von Lasulot .-- A bottle of Rhine wine, waiter! - Who should start
to tell? "" I think we will leave this lot decide, "replied Lord
Fotherhill," And I'll bet five pounds, the Marquis must begin. ""
Suppose, my Lord! "said with a pleasant smile of a Frenchman," make
the lots, Mr.

Baron, and let us draw, number two is to begin. "Baron Garnmacher
stood up and made lots cope, let out, and the second number fell
on him . I saw the Frenchman the Lord a significant Wink zuwerfen
by the left eye zugedrückt, with the right on the German hinüberdeutete
I translated Wink me this way: "Enter once eight, Mylord, which
is probably our honest arguments German mag.

Because we are both already through to the rank of our nations more
than it raised. "Baron von Garnmacher Wink but seemed not to observe,
with great complacency, he drank a glass of Rhine wine, washed in a
hurry with the baby bearded rock sleeves and began. * * * * * CHAPTER
NEUNZEHNTES. History of the German connection. "When my grandfather,
the Imperial-Royal -" "I ask you, sir," interrupted him the
Incroyable, "spare us with the big daddy and start immediately with
your father, what was he? "" Well, if you so prefer, but I am happy
to have the glory of our family longer dwells, my father lived in
Dresden at a rather large foot - "" What was he, the Lord dad?

you will forgive if I seem a little too curious, but history belongs
to a precision. "" My father, "went a little querulous Stutzer
continued," was _en gros_ clothing manufacturer - "" How, "asked the
Lord, "what's clothes manufacturer? Is it possible in Germany to make
clothes in factories?" "Hol 'me the devil, as he has done," cried
the indignant Stutzer and pushed the glass on the table. "That is
not the way how to tell his biography may be, if all moments of
critical studies is disrupted, my father had a house on the market =
Alt; is he had a studio and gave workers the clothes made for
the people! "" _Mon dieu_! So was he, what we call _tailleur_, a
tailor? "" Well, in God's name, call it what you want, in short,
he had seen the world, made a house, and if he also lacks the
nobility and the first citizen in his soirees saw it was good but a
certain tone, a certain decorum, a certain degree, I do not know
what, in short, it was a very decent man, my dad. "I even covered
the Lachkitzel when I was _garçon tailleur_ so perorieren heard, but
I took myself to Marko from the role to drop. The marquis,
however, had to back and wanted to pour out with laughter, the
Englishmen saw the Stutzer researching, it suppressed a smile,
which could hurt his dignity, and drank rum, but the German Baron
continued: "You had me, gentlemen, on the upper world in thumb screw
presses, and I had my mask is not removed in front of you. It is a
very different thing, who cares at this poor place to the former Baron
of Garnmacher? That hurt me, your laughter is not in the slightest,
on the contrary, it is with pleasure, to entertain you! "" _Ah! Trait_
ce noble! " cried the Incroyable, and wiped the tears from the
eye. "Are you my hand and let us remain friends. What is it me, if
your father _duc_ or _tailleur_ was telling you all the time. They
make it pretty even. "" I enjoyed a good education because my
mother wanted me to be theologians, and because of this stand in my
fatherland scholars actually privileged status, so I was in my
seventh year _mensa_, in my eighth _amo_, in my tenth _typto_, in
my twelfth _pakat_ eingebläut. You can imagine that I take this
extremely erudition not even had pleasant days I had what they
called a hard head, which means that
I was dear to the field, heard the birds sing or saw the fish the
river hinabgleiten, jumped with my dear comrades, as I have mentioned
in the garret, the one on the seat of the Muses future pastor had
established with my Broeder, Buttmann, Schröder, and how hot all
the Terrible the boys with hard heads like angry ghosts appear
abmarterte.

I also had yet another side of me many times robbed it was from
early youth growing up at me with a tendency to pretty girls. summer,
it was in my attic so Glowing hot as the Bleidächern the palace of
St.

Marco in Venice, if I am to the small sliding window opened around
the head a little in the fresh air be stuck, so my eyes fell
involuntarily to the beautiful garden of our neighbor, a wealthy
businessman, where under the acacia trees on the beautiful soft
Moosbank sat Amalie, his daughter, and her Gespielinnen and confidants.

Unwiderstehlide desire tore me out, I drove quickly in my Sunday Rock,
Frisierte the hair with your fingers to cope and was in flight through
the fence gap for the Queen my heart. For this batch, she in my
heart in the fullest sense of the word. I was in my eleventh year the
largest part of the knights and robbers = Fatherland read my
novels, works of their excellence in other countries has no idea,
because the Cramer and lofty names are never spit on the Rhine or
even the channel stocky.

And yet, how much more are all these books than those knights and robbers
= histories of the author of Waverley, which has no other merit than
to the detriment of his readers to be quite broad. Did the great
unknowns such as the excellent points which I have from the days of
my childhood in the ear are: M Itter night, muffled rausender G N
ature, R ü dengebell, R Itter riantrittau U f.

'Who knocks not the heart, to whom ruffles are not your hair up, when
he deserted at night on an abandoned garret read this? How I felt
as the G N atur rausender! ' And when the dog howled his Rüdengebell,
so the deception was so complete, that my gaze anxiously at the
door bolted tacked bad, because I felt no different than, R Itter U
rian treteauf!

'What was more natural than that when it vivid imagination and my
heart caught fire? Each Berta, the knights their field bandage
umhing, Ida each, based on the Söller went to the the Schloßberg
hinabdonnernden sweetheart again with the veil zuzuwedeln, every
Agnes, Hulda etc. involuntarily turned into Amalien. But it was this
Tribute subject of mortality. From their piggy bank that the novels
were purchased. If one reads, so I received it, read it, then carried
him back into the lending library, and there always looking for the
books, which either had no more back or from reading had become
so bold that they sent me neat angl ä nzte n.

That is so true to our taste, I thought, and certainly it was a, R
inaldo R inaldin i ', a, D t ü omsch z', an old T berallund any N
'or else one of our favorites. At home, I tied him to the old Latin
Scripture, because Amalie was very neat and would have brought up,
though the interior of the novel is not always been very pure, but
never with bare fingers, the rich luster of their favorites betastet.
Respectfully, I wore it in the garden over and over to him, and I never
received it back, without me Amalienburg the most beautiful places
on knitting yarns with a pin would have been called. So we read and
loved, our love was on the model, which we just read, soon she was
tenderly and bashfully, fiery and tempestuous soon, yes, if jealousy
occurred, so we gave ourselves every possible effort, an object, a
cause for our name to devise disaster-free.

My relationship to the ordinary rich merchant's daughter was also that
of a dark page of birth, in the courtyard of a great lord or
earl lives, an unfortunate passion for the beautiful daughter of the
house and finally gets her secret, But contrary intimate love
receiving.
Thirdly, to deprive the Jews
of an excuse for slandering Him. Fourthly, in order to deliver men
from subjection to the Law, according to Gal. 4:4, 5: "God sent His
Son . . . made under the Law that He might redeem them who were
under the Law."

Reply Obj. 1: Our Lord excuses Himself from any transgression of the
Law in this matter, for three reasons. First, the precept of the
hallowing of the Sabbath forbids not Divine work, but human work: for
though God ceased on the seventh day from the creation of new
creatures, yet He ever works by keeping and governing His creatures.
Now that Christ wrought miracles was a Divine work: hence He says
(John 5:17): "My Father worketh until now; and I work."

Secondly, He excuses Himself on the ground that this precept does not
forbid works which are needful for bodily health. You are right, I
have seen those figures, "he broke the Englishman," eight years ago I
made the big tour and came to Switzerland. At Lake Lucerne let me
show the place where the Swiss have donated their republics. I met
on the lawn a company which is strange, half modern, half from the
wardrobes of earlier centuries that seemed to have dressed. Five
or six young men sat and stood on the lawn and looked with shining
eyes out over the lake.

They had wonderful hats on their heads, which were to be almost like
pancakes. wallstreet long hair fell in picturesque disarray at the
back and shoulders, the neck was released and had broad, delicate
embroidered collar, like today, the ladies wear, herausgelegt. A rock,
which apparently by a modern master, but according to ancient
form was made, they are not dressed badly, he joined tightly around
the waist and showed growth over the beautiful young men. In contrast
visible but so was wide Pluderhosen of rough canvas. From their skirts
looked imminent dagger handles indicates the hand and carried her
Beilstöcke, about how the Roman Liktoren.

Not quite, but wanted to match this costume, that they glasses on his
nose and had huge tobacco smoke. I asked my guide what kind of a
strange armature and uniforms and whether they would be perhaps one
of the crew Grütli meadow should imagine. He taught me that there
are students traveling from Germany would be. Involuntarily pushed
me to the thought of traveling knight Don Quixote, and I climbed
into my boat, laughing and praised my luck, on a square, by the
sublime memories that it evokes only too easy to dreamy comparison,
such a grotesque appearance of the life to have had.

The young Germans söhnten again with me but from, because as my boat
across the lake hingleitete collected a four-song melody in so sublime,
so worthy, taken turns that I thought them the prejudice Abbate,
what her costume was awakened in me. "" Well, since we have's,
"continued the Baron Garnmacher continued," so it
looked at the time, young and old in Germany, also had Fouquésche
novels I read, was a pious boy who helped me, like all my comrades,
and it was my old German lady, who, wunnigen Maid ', with a chaste,
affectionate intimate love.

On the way, did Amalie, Z auberrin g', which, ahrten F T hiodolfs'
& c. does not meet the desired impression, they derided the Sittig,
light brown, blue eyed ladies, especially the B erthavon L ichtenrieth,
and praised me Lafontaine and long legs, slippery stories, which
are one of her girlfriends had zugesteckt.

I was very satisfied by
the German system, which opened up in me when I heard it would
have been, but the lascivious novels that fuel burned continued in
the girl that is because they are for their age was already quite
large, for a budding virgin stopped, and short - there was a scene
between us, Joseph, I wrapped myself in my Rock and my old German
virtue Fouquésche and fled the temptation of the siren, as my hero
Thiodolf before the beautiful Zoe.

The consequence was that they sent me as an unworthy and despised the
prince, son of the rector, gave her love.

Whether he is with her long legs and Lafontaine studied, I do not
know to say only so much I know that he, the prince, Amalien father,
a few weeks after the original from the garden has lashed.

I sat on my back now Dachkämmerlein, the Hebrew Bible and the Greek
Irregular in front of me and on them my novels.

On some evenings there, I cried hot tears and through the blinds
into the garden hinabgeschaut, because the Virgin zuchtlose should
not shiver my misery, it should be the struggle between hatred and
love do not read on my face.

I was firmly convinced so unhappy that I no
longer could be human, and not more than the unfortunate ttovon O
T rautwangen, when he was in France with his sound, light brown
Rösslein a cave inhabited, could perhaps have been so sorrowful as
I do.

But the extent of my suffering was not fully, you will hear how,
from entwölkter height 'me a second Donner met.

The old rector had his students a theme to an essay, where, what
we should answer the question, wenwirf r dengr ö ü ß ten M ann D
eutschlandshalte n.

It should be historically demonstrated its value, reasons given for
and against any and all legally agreed to be taught. I had, as
I've already noticed you, gentlemen, always a hard head, and
essays were the reasons I have always been contrary, I had also
always mediocre or bad work delivered. But for this work, I was
very excited, I felt a high degree of joy in me, my thoughts on
the great men of my homeland to say and my ideals (and who has in
these years is not such) in due to be light.

Historically, the Ding will be drafted. What was easier for me than
this? Now I felt the benefits of my avid reading. Where was one
of as many stories as I had read? And who, even at some of these
books the stories in the hand was, who could be in doubt who the
greatest men of my homeland had? While I was still not quite with
myself in the pure, to whom I should award the crown.

H aspera S pada? It is true he was a brave, the terror of his enemies,
the love of his friends. But, as history says, he was drinking
heavily the result, and this was quite a slag fürtrefflichen in his
character.

A dolphder K ü hne, R augraf Asselborn of D? He has a bit more of a
big man how terrible he chastises the parsons!

If he is not only in history and convert to Rome would have to do
penance, but this weakens but his majestic image. It is true, O
ttovon T rautwangen shines as a star in the first major German
history, I thought further, but he seems not the greatest to have
been, though his devotion, much in the attack is to bring any magic
wand over .

Iceland probably also belonged to the German Empire, indeed, among
all German hero is none of the T hiodolf the water. Strong as Samson,
without false like a dove, pious as a lamb, a B in anger erserke
r - it can not be missing, he is the biggest German. I sat there
and wrote enthusiastically that hierarchy down. Well, I jumped
to ten, my chest was too full, I could not say everything, the pen,
the words failed me, probably ten, I read in a loud voice, the most
successful agencies.

How sublime it was when I on the strength of the Icelandic languages,
as he tamed a wolf, as in Constantinople, a horse just a little on the
forehead and knocked it on the site was dead, how magnanimous he
spurned all reward, yes, he proposes an emperor from the throne
to his true love to stay, how childish he is devout, although the
Christian religion, he does not quite know, I described how beautiful
it all, yes, it had the heart of the old rector stir!

I could think about how my work with increasing applause read morning
as he in the class would come to get our papers to censor. Then it
certainly sends a mild, friendly look to the last place where he
usually only like a roaring lion looking, then he will read my
work aloud and saith: "Can we achieve better read than some of this?

And Guess who made it! The last should be first. The stone which the
builders have rejected, should be the cornerstone. If clear, my son,
_Garnmachere_! I've always said you seiest a Bête, I could guess that
you have with so much zeal stories are studying? Take out the price
you deserve. "So he had to say he could not do without the screaming
injustice to be done. Eifrig now, I wrote my essay straight. To
show that I am also in the newer stories unbewandert was not, I
said at the conclusion that I am after the invention of the German
powder lcibiades A and H next to him ERMANN N orden schild for the
largest men think. One could make the R E uros Itter, who afterwards
as D omsch ü tz mitseinen G esellen so much fuss made about the
bravery anbetreffe, perhaps to the side, but those two are at a much
higher position. I brought the Rector triumphantly the essay and
he almost had to laugh into his face as he sullenly said: "He will
have forged a beautiful, Garnmacher! ', reading, and then - set up,'
I was proud to answer him and left him.

If in your fatherland, Mylord, a price would be questioned about the
worthiest English theologian, and it would in a scholarly, with phrases
wohldurchspickten answer the merits of the Vicar of Wakefield
show, who would not laugh? If you, Dear Marquis, according to the
worthiest lady at times Louis XIV would be asked, and you praised
the new H eloise, would you not think for a racing? Listen to what
folly I had committed! The Saturday on which our work is usually
censored, finally appeared. So this day is often otherwise had appeared,
he sent me a day of the accident was. Usually because I slipped with
palpitations to school because I could certainly be blamed for
poor work, to be publicly geschmäht. But how much pride I took
today, I had my best rock dressed, the nicest, feingestickten shirt
collar is created, my wall hair was curled and graceful gescheitelt I
looked handsome, and confessed to me that I was also in the exterior
is not unworthy of the prize, which I have given should advertise.
The rector began to censor the articles on. How humble, obscure
heroes were my classmates elected: Hermann, Charles the Great, Emperor
Henry, Luther, and the like, - he went through a lot, always, he
has not to my work. Yes, it was apparent he was my hero on the
final-up - as the best!

Finally he rested a few moments, räusperte himself and took a booklet
with rose-colored blanket over the mine, on hand. My heart knocked
loudly joy, I felt like my mouth into a triumphant smile forgiven
wanted, but I gave me trouble, for the modest Lobe really. The
rector began: "And now I come to a work which has not its equal
on earth. I want some of it aloud! " He declaimed with uncommonly
pathos just force those agencies, so what I do with great enthusiasm
had written. A guffaw from more than forty throats broke every
record, and when he finally came to the conclusion, where I was
with a bold twist to the horrific D omsch ü tzen a few scattered
flowers had yell Bravo!

_Ancora_!

and the tables in the crash beifalltrommelnden fists of my classmates.

The Rector waved silence and continued: "It would be a good satire
on the men spit and cohorts, unless the author is a satire on the
human race would be. It is our dear Garnmacher. If indicated, you
_dedecus naturae_, hieher to me 'I trembling followed the terrible
Wink.

The first was when I stood before him, that he sent me the rose-colored
booklet once right and once to the left ear suggested. And now a
criminal sermon thundered about me down, which I understand only so
much that I Bête and would not know what history is. It is
sometimes encountered that one in a dream of a beautiful floral
sun height into a deep abyss herabfällt. Man schwindelt by the immense
heights herabfliegt, one feels the rough vibration when you lie on the
ground to believe that one wakes up and sees himself with amazement
at the old ground again.

The height from which one herabstürzte, with all its gardens flowers
gone, oh, it was just a dream That was me back then when I was the
rector from my slumber aufschüttelte; a deep sigh was the only
answer that I give him could.

I was poor as that Croesus, when he was before his winner was Cyrus,
also I had lost all of my, I should confess, where I get the novels,
who is the money to me whatsoever.

Could, could I do that I once loved, betrayed? I denied, I thought
the whole tower of the old man, I was like Mucius Scaevola. To cut a
long story short, was the way that I get from my father a Attestat
must bring about, that I the money to such Allotriis he had and
moreover, I have next Monday four days Karzer election. Mocked by my
peers that I Thiodolf, German Alcibiades and the like nachriefen
in dull despair, I went home. There was no doubt that my father, when
he heard this story, either immediately or at least kill the
Schneider boys would make. Before both were equally anxious to
me. I bethought me not so long, a little band of white stuff and
some rare coins and other Ducats what my godfather had a gift,
in a cloth, even threw a kiss and the last view of the neighbor's
garden, said farewell to my roof bar, and a quarter After I had wandered
on the road to Berlin, where my uncle lived, what I at first thought
to contact.

In my heart, it was barren and empty, so when I moved my street.
My ideals were zerronnen. They had not lived, these valiant, pious,
loving, bourgeois men, they had not breathed, those lovely
pictures holderFirstNames women. Those colorful world full of
plaster and shine, all those voices from the distant centuries
herübertönten to me, the bold sounds of the trumpet, Rüdengebell,
arms, spores Klang, sweet sounds of the chords - everything,
everything there, everything is nothing but a löschpapierne history,
in the brain of the poet cared for in a printing press to the dirty
world, I saw me again after the area around that I had left.

The sun had fallen, the fog of the Elbe veiled love Dresden, only the
tops of the towers stood, gilded by the sunset over the sea mist.
This was my dream, my hope, past and future shrouded in mist, just
a single high figures were brightly lit towers like those in my soul.
Well!

I spoke to myself: _O fortes, pejoraque passi Mecum saepe viri,
nunc pellite Cantu curas, Cras ingens iterabimus aequor._ again
spread my arms after the father of the city, because I felt a
slight blow on the shoulder and turned me around .-- "* * *
* * The editor is in the greatest embarrassment. He has up to the
date on which he writes, the publisher the manuscript for the
first part promised, but still missing a large part of the last
section. He has not yet been consecrated, the fair is already over,
and a few on the sheet to be read, there is neither a due excuse, nor
would the plant's value this important issue. We versparen therefore
the continuation of the feast in Hell to the second part. *
* * * *
And as to the words inserted by Mark,
"and He was with the beasts," according to Chrysostom (Hom. xiii in
Matth.), they are set down in order to describe the desert as being
impassable to man and full of beasts.

On the other hand, according to Bede's exposition of Mk. 1:12, 13,
our Lord was tempted forty days and forty nights. But this is not to
be understood of the visible temptations which are related by Matthew
and Luke, and occurred after the fast, but of certain other assaults
which perhaps Christ suffered from the devil during that time of His
fast.

Reply Obj. 3: As Ambrose says on Luke 4:13, the devil departed from
Christ "for a time, because, later on, he returned, not to tempt Him,
but to assail Him openly"--namely, at the time of His Passion.
Nevertheless, He seemed in this later assault to tempt Christ to
dejection and hatred of His neighbor; just as in the desert he had
tempted Him to gluttonous pleasure and idolatrous contempt of God.
_______________________

FOURTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 41, Art. 4]

Whether the Mode and Order of the Temptation Were Becoming?

Objection 1: It would seem that the mode and order of the temptation
were unbecoming. For the devil tempts in order to induce us to sin.
But if Christ had assuaged His bodily hunger by changing the stones
into bread, He would not have sinned; just as neither did He sin when
He multiplied the loaves, which was no less a miracle, in order to
succor the hungry crowd. Therefore it seems that this was nowise a
temptation.

Obj. 2: Further, a counselor is inconsistent if he persuades the
contrary to what he intends. But when the devil set Christ on a
pinnacle of the Temple, he purposed to tempt Him to pride or
vainglory. Therefore it was inconsistent to urge Him to cast Himself
thence: for this would be contrary to pride or vainglory, which
always seeks to rise.

Obj. 3: Further, one temptation should lead to one sin. But in the
temptation on the mountain he counseled two sins--namely,
covetousness and idolatry. Therefore the mode of the temptation was
unfitting.

Obj. 4: Further, temptations are ordained to sin. But there are seven
deadly sins, as we have stated in the Second Part (I-II, Q. 84, A.
4). But the tempter only deals with three, viz. gluttony, vainglory,
and covetousness. Therefore the temptation seems to have been
incomplete.

Obj. 5: Further, after overcoming all the vices, man is still tempted
to pride or vainglory: since pride "worms itself in stealthily, and
destroys even good works," as Augustine says (Ep. ccxi). Therefore
Matthew unfittingly gives the last place to the temptation to
covetousness on the mountain, and the second place to the temptation
to vainglory in the Temple, especially since Luke puts them in the
reverse order.

Obj. 6: Further, Jerome says on Matt. 4:4 that "Christ purposed to
overcome the devil by humility, not by might." Therefore He should
not have repulsed him with a haughty rebuke, saying: "Begone, Satan."

Obj. 7: Further, the gospel narrative seems to be false. For it seems
impossible that Christ could have been set on a pinnacle of the
Temple without being seen by others. Nor is there to be found a
mountain so high that all the world can be seen from it, so that all
the kingdoms of the earth could be shown to Christ from its summit.
It seems, therefore, that Christ's temptation is unfittingly
described.

On the contrary is the authority of Scripture.

Will you now answer ridiculous and, I have not read it? No! You respond
to it recently: "He likes me in the whole not bad, though he claims
on my novels are not yet equal. He has some depth and original, like
the development is invented, but it seems to me here and there
in the form something was missing and some of the characters to be
recorded. "You speak so, and have you in the mouth and forehead
wrinkles critical, so Nobody will give you deep and looking deny
verdict. "" Your Gewäsch keep the devil, "replied the old man
sullenly." Do you think I will because of this Menschlein, or even fun
for you to make aesthetic faces cut? Since defraud you very,
Satan. I want my tea drinking as much as you want, but - "" As you can
see it again, "I argued," who will be because in a society
honetten booze? How much you still lack, to be formed today to
appear!

Sip, slurp, drink maximum - but since the car already holds in the
poet, get yourself together, that we are not experiencing ridicule,
Ahasver! "The poet sat down with us, and the car rolled on, I saw it
the old well indicated that he, the closer we are the goals of our
trip came to more bänger was mute. Although he has been eighteen
centuries walked the earth, so he could yet so little in the people
and their relationships find that all moments anstieß. So he asked the
poet, for example, on whether the Assembly, in which we drive
Christians out of pure confusion to which the question naturally
big eyes and did not want to know how they come here. With a few,
but taken trains designed us the circle of poets, of us should. The
warm and witty piety, in the delicate nature of my lady vorwalten
should the solemn seriousness, the size of the older silent young
lady who, although Protestant, but quite the Air wistfully holy
monastery of women, who, after having broken the heart of
the world said farewell, now her whole life in a great, interesting
pain live, [Footnote: In the rush, the publisher takes the liberty of
the elevation of the Boudoir This Protestant nun chen, as he thinks
it is, here attached.

In the window are flowers in the corner a Betpult with a cast iron
crucifix. A guitar is a necessary requisite if the owner no more
than "_O Sanctissima_" it can play. A holy picture on the sofa, a pile
imposed image of his deceased V or U ngetreuen from etzlichem,
astutely entwined ivy.

Yourself in a white or Ash costume, on the wall as a mirror.] The young
lady, fresh, round, blooming, sunny, naive, love was in a guard
lieutenant, but because it is the parents are not daft enough not
to aesthetic tea come. They have the most beautiful places in Goethe,
Schiller, Tieck, etc., which her mother previously painted, learned
and give it here and there with precision allerliebsten price. She
sings what might be expected, at the request of Italian Ariettes with
artificial roulades. Their main force consists in play Waltz. The rest
of society, some good spirits, some critics, sentimental and naive,
young and older women, free and other lady [Footnote: Satan
appears to be free from Miss to Miss, and others differ. Among those
he understands the good of the nobility, among the latter, which
one else or Virgin Mamsell states. Incidentally, I think the difference
in this way to describe, very unsuitable.

For one, I admit that the bourgeois lady often just as free in their
manners and demeanor are as real.] Ourselves, we will know more.
The car stopped, Serves tore of the blow to my fear and helped to
mentor. Silently we moved the stairs hinan enlightened. A sweet
Ambraduft wallte us from the opposite hallway. Sound of many voices
and the Gerassel the teaspoon halbgeöffneten sounded from the
door of the salon, also flew on this, and umstrahlt by the splendor
of the sun floating chandelier, sat among the society.

The poet led us the seat in front of my lady and put the Doctor and
his Mucke Eleven, the young Baron von Stobelberg before. Huldreich the
matron came and gave us the beautiful, delicate hand, they welcomed
us kindly. With those dainty lightness that I Incroyable a Viennese
abgelauscht had, I took this gentle hand and breathed a soft kiss of
awe about that. The custom type of the stranger seemed to like her,
and gladly granted it to the mentor of the well-drawn, the same pupil
favor. But, oh horror! By niederbückte it, I saw that his gray,
pungent Jews not smooth beard from chin wegrasiert, but like a
scratch brush exposed. The madam made the grim face at the Stechkuß,
but the decency to let them no more than a slight whining hervorstöhnen.
Wistfully looked at her beautiful white hand, the red aufzulaufen
began, and she was forced, in the next room to seek help.

I , saw her maid from the silver Kölnisches toilet and the water was
so sore body rubbed. Then Glazed nice gloves were called in, the
caps off of them, but so that the delicate fingertips hervorsehen
could, and the gracious hand so clothed. However, had the young
ladies zugeflüstert our names, the men came closer to us and
questioned us about no matter what Once again, we responded indifferent
to the soul of the house again hereintrat.

The Noble knew her grief for the ongoing hand to hide so well that
they are just one home business seemed to be followed and even the
old sinner himself nothing of the mischief felt that he had had
the effect. The only punishment was that they submit a stabbing eye
for its pungent zuwarf hand, and me through the whole evening
before striking him excelled.

The readers will have seen that there is a very elegant tea was to
us what the poet had led. The massive silver tea maker, in which the
younger daughter was preparing tea, the magnificent chandeliers and
mirrors, the burning colors of the carpets and wallpaper, the
artificial flowers in dainty vases, finally the company itself, in
full costume in black and white was mixed, settled at the state and
good sound, close the housewife. The tea was also made as aesthetically.
Madam regretted that we had not come sooner.

The young poet Frühauf have a few dozen punches from a hero poem aloud,
so dearly, so floating, with so much music in the Final Reimen that
one in a long time not very heard, it is expected that it is generally
caused a sensation in Germany will . We lamented the loss of infinity;
lorbeerbekränzte the modest young man assured us, but under his
hand, he wanted us tomorrow in our hotel to visit, and we should not
only be a few punches, he divulged here, but some complete songs to
get heard. The conversation was now but a different twist. An elderly
lady had her work bag range, whose tasteful embroidery and new
eyes of the ladies to be moved.

She took a book out, and said with a friendly lisp: "_Voyez-là_ the
latest product of my genius friend, Johanna. She has it to me fresh
from the press sent away, and I'm so happy to be the first to have
it here .

I have a little durchblättert, but these wonderful situations,
these scenes so completely plucked from the life, the truth of the
characters, this shiny style - "You make me curious, wife of Wollau,"
she broke in the lady of the House, "may I ask -? Ah, G abriele
of Joan of Schopenhauer. With this, you are affiliated, my love?
Since I wish happiness. "" We learned in Carlsbad us know, "replied
the wife of Wollau," our minds are recognized in the same pursuit
of grafted goal of mankind [note: wife of Wollau will probably
say: "In accordance with the objectives of the Performance" .-- The
Editor.], they withdrew, we loved us.

And because it has me now its Gabriele skillfully. "" That is a
very interesting acquaintance, "said Miss N a tali, the older
daughter of the house.

"Oh, but who would be
so happy!

There is nothing about a great lady. But you say where you have the
beautiful embroidery ago, I can be your bag is not enough to
admire."

"Beautiful - beautiful - and the colors ! And the garland! - And the
elegant shape!

"Resonated from the lips of the beautiful Teetrinkerinnen, Gabriele and
the poor would be perhaps the artwork has been completely forgotten,
if not us, he is poet, the book would have been requested to inspect."

I have the most interesting scenes described, "cried the Wollau"
Who of the men is so pleasing to us, if it otherwise the company
is enjoyable, it aloud?

"" Wonderful - beautifully - an excellent idea - "it sounded again,
and our leaders, of the moments in this book in his hand, was by
acclamation to the readers chosen.

They poured the cups again and passed around the dainty sandwiches, but
also to the body of food, while the
mind with a new novel has been fed, and as all goods, the housewife
was the sign, and the lecture began.

Almost an hour reading with the poet Fine voice from the book.

I know little more of it than that, if I am not mistaken, the description
of Tableaus contained, with some great ladies of the world were
listed.

My ear was only half or even not at the lecture, because I overhears
the two Herzensergießungen lady who, seemingly aware of the readers,
are all important whispered in the ears. Luckily I was sitting far
enough from them to not be suspected of listening to come, and yet
the distance was just so big that a pair of good ears could hear
everything. One of the two was the younger daughter of the house,
which I listened to a Guard lieutenant had lost her heart. "And
you think," she whispered to her neighbor, "now he is up early
with his squadron vorbeigeritten, and below my window, the trumpeter
of the canter waltz lately must begin. "" You Happy!

"replied the other lady," and Mom has not noticed? "" As little as
lately, where he was me in five cotillon aufzog. What I did was in a
predicament, you can not believe. I was with the ... between Attaché
committed, and you know how unbearable this arid me man prosecuted.
He had been back from the Italian regions of southern Germany and I
started not indistinct to understand that they would be even nicer
if I would with him there, because the love redeemed me Fladorp
from this pain.

But no sooner had he brought me back again, the unbearable than his
old song by a new anstimmte; Eduard fetched me but still four times
from his brilliant phrases out, so that in anger was completely silent
when I came back for the last.

He expressed his dissatisfaction against Mom, it seemed to him but
did not seem to understand. "" Oh, how happy you are, "the neighbor
said wistfully," but I do! You know already that my Dagobert is moved
to Halle? How is it delivered to me!

"" I know it and you regret from the heart, but tell me how this
came so quickly? "" Oh, "replied the lady, and secretly crushed a
tear in the eye, -" oh, you have no idea of the cabal that it is
in life. You know how zealously Dagobert always for the good of the
Fatherland was. Since he now had a new curfew invented, he did it
to me on the window pane presents, he is allerliebst. His Supreme
liked it quite well, but this would have, he should pay him the honor
of the invention can.

Dagobert Of course, this is not done, and it upset the Colonel is not
rested, rather, until the arms hall has been moved. Ach, du you can
not even think about me as wistful heart is when the curfew at my
window comes, they play it every evening after the new invention,
and which made him, he can not hear! "" I am sorry you right. But you
also know something really new? That they in the other guard uniforms
get it? "" Is it possible? O tell, how? How do you know it? "" Listen,
in the strictest confidence, however, because there is still deep,
deep secret. Eduard has, by his supreme and confessed to me recently,
but under the seal of the deepest secrecy. Look, the buttons are further
apart the chest and continue to run close to the bottom, in this way
is much slimmer waist, then they should also shoulder golden cords
get the white but the colonel and I think even the General is not
yet certainly.

Also in the leg clothes changes happen - Eduard must look like an angel
- see you until now ...." whispered quieter now, so I cut on the leg
of the guard coat is not quite clear to come could. Only so much I
saw that beautiful eyes platonic feelings for a pretty good fire,
that they are much more lovely shine far brighter rays throw when
sensuous L iebe reflected in them. * * * * * CHAPTER DREIZEHNTES.
fear eternal hours of Jews.

The readers had to came to a section and put the book down. applause
was general, and the usual proclamation, which has been subject
to the stick model, were also given Gabriele. I had the mind and the
fast version of the two is not enough admire the lady, although
they are not the smallest part of the read could have heard, so
they were already so well trained that they seemed full of admiration.
One even ran towards Wollau woman, grabbed her hand and pressed it to
the heart, by her heartfelt thanks for benefit, which they had
all prepared. This lady but sat there, full of splendor and glory, as
if they themselves Gabriele had brought to the world. She thanked
after all sides for the praise, the attention her friend has become
indistinct and did not understand that they themselves perhaps some
influence on the new book had, because they do occasionally softly
echoes of their own ideas about inner life and on the status of women
in society, in hours of their confidential minded girlfriend. It was
obviously so good, so her some compliments to make, although it was
generally convinced that no great friend of the inner life Wollauschen
will have peppered.

The eternal Jew had to carry out such operations, however, a very
weird character played. Verwunderungsvoll he looked into this world
as he trust his eyes and ears.

But the effort, according to my rule should look critically and
aesthetically, not be denied. But because it is the practice abging,
then cut it so frightful grimaces that he several times while reading
out the attention of the whole circle and moved on to the lady of the
house asked me participating, that my tutor was not well.

I excused him with a toothache who sometimes infested, and
everything felt good to have made. But Wollau woman who sat opposite
him, their influence on the poet announced, had the precious, being
bolted to the same old people so strange happen that he loud auflachte.
Who ever the lucky, an elegant tea in very fine company attend, you
can easily think about how to enter all were when this outbreak
of crude Hohner yell.

An awkward, silent pause was dead, how soon the doctor Mucke, and
soon the lady that was offended. The woman of the house, recalling the
stinging kiss, wanted to have the naughty aliens, the decency of
their house so grossly injured, without backing rebuke than this
with more agility and cunning, as I believed he would have to
withdraw from the affair to draw knew ". I hope, madam," he said, "They
will, however, my untimely laughter not misunderstand me and
allow me to justify.

It is certainly all of you already encountered that idea completely
out of your association Kontenance brought.

Is it already many, among the holiest things, a ridiculous idea has
set off, and he tickled in the mouth, and the more he sought to
him to behave and to push back, the more unstoppable he broke out
at once.

It happened to me in this moment. They would join me infinitely,
madam, if you allow me, through candid narration by me from Mrs. Wollau
to apologize. "madam, höchlich pleased that decency is not violated,
he kindly granted his request, and the eternal Jew began: "Wollau
woman gave us her interesting relationship to a famous poetess,
stated they have told us how they, in some hours of their literary
works are discussed with her, and this reminded me vividly of
an anecdote from my own life."

On a trip through southern Germany verlebte me some time in S. My
evening walks were directed mostly by the royal garden, which every
professional to all times of the day open. The beautiful world was
there on foot and car to see every night. I chose the lonely parts
of the garden, where I, of thick bushes against the sun and unwanted
visits sealed on soft Moosbänken me and my thoughts to live. "One
evening, as I have long periods of time on my favorite spot had
rested, two oldish gutgekleidete women and sat down on a bench,
which only by a narrow, leafy hedge, but the mine was separated.

I did not need to give them my close, they seemed not to foresee,
to identify themselves. Curiosity, it was not, incidentally, what held
me, for I knew no soul in that city, so I could talk to his most
indifferent.

But imagine my surprise that respected when I heard the following
conversation: "Well? And you may wish you luck, love? Have you finally
Elise this stubborn thing of the past?

" 'Yes,' replied the other lady who, this morning after coffee, I have
them killed." Horrors durchrieselte my limbs, when I so clearly and
indifferent speak of a murder heard, so quietly as possible I am
completely approached the hedge, which separated me from them, sharpened
my ear like a quail dog, that I should miss nothing, and heard
next: "And how did you get her the death taught? As usual, by
poison? Or you have the unfortunate, as Othello his Desdemona, smothered
with a comforter? " "None of them, 'said that, but quite hard to me
this was murder, you think, for three days, I had already between
life and death, and I always knew not what I should start with her.
As I finally fell a risky funds, I had them, as if by coincidence,
by a bridge with no railings in the deep stream hinabgleiten, the
waves beating on her. It has nothing Elisen seen. "" You have done
well, and how many was that they in one way or another, killed?
" "Well, that will soon be concluded, Pauline Dupuis, Marie, etc. But
the former wore me the most money.

These were still the good times of 1802, where a few competed with
me. "The hairs stood me up in the mountains. Five innocent creatures
had this woman in the world have done. Was it not a good plant to human
society when I discovered such an abomination, and the murderer
to justice was?

"The ladies were after some indifferent conversation up and had the
city structure. Quietly I got up and slipped them under me, like
a shadow following her heels. They walked through the promenade, I
followed and they went around and went through the gate, I followed,
they finally seemed to notice my observations, because one was
after me for several times, their bad conscience seemed to me wakes
up, she liked knowing that I knew the murder, she wants me through
the different direction of the road, the path they, fool, but I -
folge.

Finally, they are in a nursing home. They pull the bell, we conclude
that they occur. No sooner are they in the door, I quickly approached,
I noticed the number of the house and hurry, driven by that zeal, which
the discovery of such a gruesome mystery in each must be upset at the
direction of the police. "I ask the Director to secret hearing.
I put him the whole thing, everything I had heard apart, but sadly
aware of the murder with her no true name, as a certain P auline D
upuis, which in 1802 under the
murderous hand of those woman died.

But it was under such circumstances the police graying man enough.

He thanked me for my zeal, immediately send patrols into the street,
I called him, and called me to him when the night will be completely
caught in that house to accompany.

The night he would rather choose to, as he for such appearances
Zudrang of the people and possibly avoid the attention. "The
night fell, we went. The police soldiers who had surrounded the
house, assured that no man had the same leave. The bird was caught.
We left our house open, and started on the first floor of our
investigation. Just outside the door of the first room I heard the
voices of two women.

Without circumstances do I open and the police director indicates the
smaller elderly lady at the Verbrecherin. "Stood astonished at
this and asked for our desire. In their eyes, in her whole being had
this lady is something that impressed me.

I lost a moment on the text and indicated only on the director to make
them because they matter to those who have. But this was not so
easy to stump. With that serious a crime Miene official judge he asked
her about her from today's walk. They confessed to him, as well as the
bench where they sat. Their statements agreed entirely with the
mine, the man saw her as already had to. The woman began to be
frightened, they asked what we wanted because of her, why her
house, her room filled with armed men, why they are such questions
bestürme?

"The man saw the police in this fearful questions only outbreak of
a guilty conscience.

He seemed to be the best to keep an insidious issue its full
report the crime to elicit: "Madame, what have you Anno 1802 with
Pauline Dupuis started?
Now the Old Law was put into writing by God,
according to Ex. 24:12: "I will give thee" two "tables of stone and
the law, and the commandments which I have written." Therefore it
seems that Christ also should have put His doctrine into writing.

Obj. 3: Further, to Christ, who came to enlighten them that sit in
darkness (Luke 1:79), it belonged to remove occasions of error, and
to open out the road to faith. Now He would have done this by putting
His teaching into writing: for Augustine says (De Consensu Evang. i)
that "some there are who wonder why our Lord wrote nothing, so that
we have to believe what others have written about Him. Especially do
those pagans ask this question who dare not blame or blaspheme
Christ, and who ascribe to Him most excellent, but merely human,
wisdom. These say that the disciples made out the Master to be more
than He really was when they said that He was the Son of God and the
Word of God, by whom all things were made." And farther on he adds:
"It seems as though they were prepared to believe whatever He might
have written of Himself, but not what others at their discretion
published about Him." Therefore it seems that Christ should have
Himself committed His doctrine to writing.

_On the contrary,_ No books written by Him were to be found in the
canon of Scripture.

_I answer that,_ It was fitting that Christ should not commit His
doctrine to writing. First, on account of His dignity: for the more
excellent the teacher, the more excellent should be his manner of
teaching. Consequently it was fitting that Christ, as the most
excellent of teachers, should adopt that manner of teaching whereby
His doctrine is imprinted on the hearts of His hearers; wherefore it
is written (Matt. 7:29) that "He was teaching them as one having
power." And so it was that among the Gentiles, Pythagoras and
Socrates, who were teachers of great excellence, were unwilling to
write anything. For writings are ordained, as to an end, unto the
imprinting of doctrine in the hearts of the hearers.

Secondly, on account of the excellence of Christ's doctrine, which
cannot be expressed in writing; according to John 21:25: "There are
also many other things which Jesus did: which, if they were written
everyone, the world itself, I think, would not be able to contain the
books that should be written." Which Augustine explains by saying:
"We are not to believe that in respect of space the world could not
contain them . . . but that by the capacity of the readers they could
not be comprehended." Towards the end of October, I led Professor
Eckhardt from Mannheim - one of the most brilliant speaker of that
time was - after he was in a People's Assembly in Leipzig had
spoken, even in workers Education Association a lecture.

In this he dealt with the position of the worker in the then
existing situation, particularly in relation to its social demands.
In the latter relationship, he spoke strongly for the intervention
of the state.

He had also opposed the idea of state Lassallesche nothing to help,
if they are of a democratic states. The speaker earned tumultuous
applause and there was no contradiction. Notwithstanding the repeated
rejections, we again end of 1865 to the Saxon government in order
approving a Gauverbandes turned . Frequent exchange of political
views was the need become. The Ministry has in turn conditions we could
not accept. But we decided in the Executive Board of the Association
for the promotion of spiritual and material interests of workers'
associations, the clubs decision to leave, and "made a state Assembly
for 28 January 1866 to Zwickau, whose agenda we set at, as there
would be no legal obstacle. Thereafter, according to the report on the
management of the response of the Ministry will be discussed. Further
advice should be: Petitions for full commercial freedom and freedom
of movement for the promotion of a liberal Association Act, the
repeal of the labor and service books and all Paßbeschränkungen.

After that the applications should be advised of the clubs and the
election of the Board are made. Because obtaining the general suffrage,
we wanted to find ourselves in a private meeting circumspect. Our
agenda for the Leipzig police went too far Board. Our secretary Germann
and I have been preloaded and asked to amend the same, failing which
the conference should not take place and the clubs for political
states would be, what a connection on the same would have been
impossible.

Police director in Leipzig was a Dr. Dog, a former democratic-eight,
but the association and assembly law handled in a way that no
Conservative would have strict hand may have. We now only put the
Ministerial Conference on the agenda, but taught at the hands of
the clubs, they want to represent you well, we would try to enforce
the conference, what was possible.

There were 31 clubs from 24 representatives present. Sunday morning
began the negotiations. As a representative for the application Werdau
noted, the statutory reduction of working on the
agenda, contradicted by the present Police Commissioner.

About the Regulation of the Ministry (Beust) I made the Assembly
the proposal to declare: "Given that the regulation the Ministry
of the Interior the worker associations in Saxony starting a
Gauverbandes only on condition that the same is not compatible with
political, social or public affairs, but this restriction by the
activities of the clubs will be reduced to zero, the Assembly
decided, by the founding Gauverbandes a sight, and leaves it to
each club, as he does want his job.

"The consequence of that Zwickauer operations
was that the Police Board the Leipzig Workers' Educational Association
at the Law Society pointed out, that is, it now treated as a political
club.

Mißstimmung Large had in the Leipzig Workers Education Association
has long been the attitude of the "People's Berliner Zeitung" aroused
in the reading room, delivery, both because of its undemocratic
attitude as well as because of the hostility with which they fought
broader worker exposures.

In the General Assembly of the Association (March 1866) I presented
on behalf of the Board requests that the "People's Berliner Zeitung"
and to abolish the "Rheinische Zeitung in Cologne to subscribe.

The request gave rise to a heated debate, but he was finally with
160 against 17 votes.

This decision resulted in the liberal press to violent attacks
against the club and me personally.

You saw me as the originator of the request.

In 1863, in Saxony, introduced freedom of trade presupposes that
those who wanted to become self-employed, only the municipality
had to obtain citizenship.

The cost, however, especially in the larger cities a lot of money.

It now began in the winter from 1865 to 1866 in Leipzig a movement
aimed at eliminating or reducing the civil rights charges and a
radical transformation of the Saxon regulations aimed cities.

Liberal leader at that time stood at the forefront of this
movement. I also attended the relevant meetings and therefore, I
was repeatedly assured the best speeches have. After a program
which was submitted to a committee established set, which I belonged,
the agitation over the whole of Saxony in the way forward should
be.

But our work as soon proved futile. When we in the spring of 1866
so far were the agitation to be able to start, was the escalation
of conflicts between Prussia and Austria, and the discussions on
solving the German question so far that it is any other interest
pushed into the background. The same fate had our agitation for
a transformation of the Saxon Gewerbeordnung.

On the other hand, now joined the political demands to the fore.
25 and 26 March, for several meetings were held in Dresden, to which
I delegate from Leipzig was also on the agenda was the unification
question. I talked myself as a delegate for Leipzig for a joint
collaboration from Vahlteich however made the mistake that he had
the members of the General German Workers' Association strongly
attacked and overwhelmed with allegations, resulting in a storm of
indignation provoked.

Vahlteich was to him as former Secretary Lassalle in general German
Workers' Association befall treatment not forget - he was at the
request of Lassalle, who tolerated no opposition could have been
expelled - and so he suggested going to the club, where he always
took the opportunity .

However, after those meetings concluded with a joint conference
involving the workers' educational associations of Leipzig, Dresden,
Chemnitz, and Glauchau Görlitz, the memberships of the General
German Workers' Association in Dresden, Plauenscher reason,
Chemnitz and Glauchau, the Altgesellenverein and Typographia to Dresden
by 20 delegates participated. We decided joint agitation for universal
suffrage, for a democratic assembly and association rights, for
freedom of movement, freedom of trade, abolition of Paßbeschränkungen,
introduction of a school, maintenance of schools by the state,
regulating the wage issue, the sickness funds and support the
Association and issue .

Those present constituted as a committee. Först Erling became its
Chairperson. For the convening of meetings participated in Dresden
now all existing labor organizations, including the book agents'
association. They acted as if there were no more Saxon Law Association,
the combination of associations for political purposes prohibited.

Also from all sides has been a continuing alliance of labor
organizations required. The parliamentary question was asked from now
on the subject of lively agitation in the workers' circles. We
demanded a constituent parliament for the whole of Germany and the
introduction of the general arming people for the Protection
of the Parliament, a demand that was in the democratic circles as
obviously was, because without such protection, the subject of a
parliamentary coup could be.

On the other hand, took an assembly, which on 7 May in Dresden, and
met by 2,000 people had visited, decisions, some of which were quite
strange. It stated: 1 We condemn any policy having the force of the
people and he does not paralyze the assurances of its freedom and
its prosperity there. 2. We explain the assignment of only one foot
width as a German national betrayal of the fatherland. 3.

We request that His Majesty the King and the Government of its
obligations to the fatherland and the people follow, and therefore
that those men who receive these energy requirements of the
resistance hamstring, replaced by those which are vigorous and
popular sense. 4.

We require that the interest rule, which results landesverderbliche
now open to light, by restoring the universal, equal and direct
voting rights by secret ballot and unlimited eligibility replaced.
5. We demand that the Government of His Majesty the decision
was known, due to the federal decisions, 30 March and 9 April 1848
the Parliament Assembly and in the solution of the German
constitution in the sense of the question in February 1849
the German National Assembly issued Tilted enter. 6.

We demand immediate restoration of the German fundamental rights
and general popular armament.

It was then elected a Deputation to the Först Erling, and lawyer
Knöfel Schraps belonged to the king's wishes should carry forward
to the Assembly.

Obviously this was the reception Deputation rejected. Finally had
to willy-nilly, the Saxon government, pressured by the mood in the
country and now the council convened, the position to take federal
reform issue. Mr. v. Beust, the followers of the hitherto
impossible Austrian reform project had been, and also the warm triad
idea the word was spoken, came into the scrum.

From the Deputation of the Second Chamber of the Landtag questioned,
as is now the Austrian Government to the reform project is, he
said: it was not their intention to delegate the project back, it was
ready for a federal reform act, and for a parliament, which is
based on why the electoral law of 1849 had to choose.

Compared with the Prussian reform draft, he made all sorts of vague
reservations. The Deputation of the Second Chamber requested the
Association to the Deputation of the First Chamber, at the request
of the Government to: "The government may then, with all energy act,
that the arrangement of the elections to the German parliament on
the basis of general and direct election, possibly after the realm
of electoral March 27, 1849, in Germany later this month (June) and
the successful convening of the Parliament in the shortest possible
time be done.

"But the ball was already rolling in and ran a different direction
than you expected. The disaster of 1866.

It's for the assessment of the upcoming events and our position to
the same necessary to provide a summary overview of the operations,
which, finally, the lengthy diplomatic struggle that Austria
and Prussia for supremacy in Germany led to the battlefield to
Decision made. With the death of the Danish King Frederick VII,
November 1863, emerged from the new schleswig holsteinsche question,
since the death of the king, the Oldenburger line was extinguished.
The new Danish King Christian IX. Recognized the Schleswig-Holstein
as beneficiaries is not Duke, but opted for the Prince Frederick
Castle from August, because of his government appointment as Duke
Frederick VIII proclaimed.

This was the affiliation of the two duchies to Germany pronounced,
which caused great satisfaction in general. Denmark resisted
this solution. The Bundestag had to opt for the federal execution
against Denmark to decide which version he transmitted Saxony and
Hanover. But they did not in Bismarck's plans. He let his Kronjuristen
show that the August Burger beneficiaries was not a decision that the
public opinion against the Bismarck policy extremely excited. It was
in Bismarck, the man of the Prussian constitutional breach, not
those who question the meaning of the population of Schleswig-Holstein
would solve, we are reminded again that it was Prussia, which at
the shameful outcome of the first of Schleswig-Holstein's War against
Denmark, 1851, was the main culprit.

The Board of the National Association was therefore consent lively
than it already in late 1863 in a call, signed by Rudolf v. Bennigsen
as President, the people calling for self-help. Within that call,
it was: "The National Association urges all municipalities, corporations,
associations, cooperatives, urges all Fatherland friends who are
with him to the great works to connect, to ungesäumt money
herbeizuschaffen - and teams, weapons and all means available for
the liberation of our brothers in Schleswig-Holstein will be necessary.
"This call clearly breached laws against a number of individual
countries, but no public prosecutor is touched.

The people sympathized with this sentiment approach. Shortly afterwards
published the Committee of the National Association for Schleswig-Holstein
a call, in which it stated: "Very well! Equip us, that when the
moment for action has come, the German youth to the fight arms can
....

Perhaps only a very short time they may use to exercise in the weapons
and tactical training. "You see, as it was the liberal leaders, the
implementation of the People's weaponry in a short time thought
possible. Woe to the Social Democrats, today a similar call to adopt.
This is the progress since that time - I would like to insert here
that with the beginning of the sixties alongside the massive formation
of workers' associations and the creation of mass gymnastic and
Shooting was made in the national movement in those days played a
major role . Bismarck saw this very discontented about goings. The
great festivals of those associations for the whole of Germany,
organized alternately, were mass associations focusing on the
merits with the German question employed. In Leipzig took place
in August 1863 the German general Turnfest instead, the home of Mr.
v. Beust made his obeisance. But while this is a patriotic speech at
the turn gave
place, the Leipzig police banned the sale of the kingdom constitutional
charter of 1849 in public places.

I was also in that feasts on that part, as our singers department,
whose chair I Fritzsche after the resignation had become vocal with
the other clubs in Leipzig in the vocal performances of the festival
said.

In October the same year was also the fifty-year celebration of the
Battle of Leipzig.

This festival was in its nature is still great as the Turnfest. There
was also a major political demonstrations used. I also worked here as
a member of our flock with singers. It was from now on in Germany for
meetings of the independence of Schleswig-Holstein organized. In
Leipzig a working Assembly decided, in all directions were represented:
"They consider it the duty of the German workers, who honor the
rights and freedom of the fatherland in all cases where these are
threatened, her arm to make available" .

In the same sense in other cities resolviert. In Frankfurt a. M.
Abgeordnetentag held at the end of 1863, the visits of 500 MPs had
declared itself against the annexation of Schleswig-Holstein in
any German state.

The decision was aimed against Prussia and Bismarck, whose policy
at that time even those liberals dare not enter the inside for an
annexation to Prussia were. Naturally it was Bismarck's policy
on these obstacles, giving up most upset. He demanded from Frankfurt
Senate resolution of the six-day Members of the Committee, whose
Chairman of the City Council Siegmund Müller in Frankfurt. He also
demanded by the Senate prohibiting the military exercises of the
Frankfurt youth.

With both applications fell from it. But he forgot this is not
Frankfurt. 1866 was the Democrat's Nest "to atone by giving it
first harassed and then annexed.

Finally found the schleswig holsteinsche question but the solution
proposed by Bismarck. He succeeded, the head of Austrian politics,
Graf Rechberg thoroughly einzuseifen and plans for his next win.
Instead of the federal troops, now in Schleswig-Holstein were
engaged, now led Prussia and Austria the war against the Danes, they
were subject to early and were forced, in the peace of Schleswig-Holstein
and Lauenburg to Prussia and Austria cede. Austria with Prussia
finally made a commercial transaction, by its share of Lauenburg
to 2-1/2 million thalers sold to Prussia. The war was von Bismarck
against the will of the Chamber of Deputies has been led with 275
to about 80 votes required by the war bond was denied. One can imagine
that this kind of governing the mood for Prussia not strengthened,
by the way Germany was even worse when, after long negotiations
between Prussia and Austria, the Treaty of Gastein, 14 August 1865,
it became known after the administration of Schleswig to Prussia
and Holstein to those of Austria fell.

The Masters was the second string Bismarck, thus the wedge between
Austria and the Federal drove deeper. However, there was now the
world the light-hearted drama, that the Prussians under Manteuffel
all demonstrations in favor of August Burgers in Schleswig ruthlessly
oppressed and even a very strict regiment led, whereas under the
General Oesterreicher v. Gablenz Holstein in particular could run
free. How Gablenz conceives his task, his statement shows: "I will
observe existing land laws so that no Holsteiner with my eventual
move away from here can say I have any rights governed.

I will not here in the land of the Turkish Pasha govern." That
was a moral slap in the face for Mr v. Manteuffel. The fact that the
new order in the Herzogtümern only a provisional arrangement could
be realized. This solution was not. Finally, had the struggle between
Prussia and Austria, and which could, after all other factors were
eliminated, according to Bismarck's view, only by a war take place.

On this he worked out systematically. On the one hand, he went through
dilatory negotiations, as he called them later, Napoleon's neutrality
by promises eventual assignment to the German territory to France to
secure - the Rhine Palatinate and the Prussian Saar coalfield were
in the sub-actions in question - the other hand, he an agreement
with Italy, which is given in the case of Austria in the south
should attack as soon as Prussia would hit from the north. Indicative
of the way in which Bismarck's' national 'policy examined the
negotiations with the Italian public men who, later, Italian Prime
Minister La Marmora in his book "More Light" published. In
March, said Bismarck against the Italian
military special agent in Berlin: the king had overly anxious
legitimistischen qualms abandoned.

He was concerned with the crown by robbery and annex large ions
combine to become Italy, he also wanted legitimistischen no concerns
lead the war against Austria.

In a few months, so Bismarck drove away, he will the issue of the
German reform, decorated with a parliament, to the Tapet bring
this proposal causing chaos, then the opposition in Prussia with
Austria would bring what's between the two wars to come .

This program was promptly executed. On 3 June, the Italian envoy in
Berlin, Govone, his government, Bismarck had expressed to him: "I'm
much less than German Preuße concerns and would not take the assignment
of the whole country between the Rhine and the Mosel to France to
sign: Pfalz , Oldenburg, a part of the Prussian territory. " ...

"Make him worry the king, the religious, even superstitious misgivings,
he should take responsibility for a European war is not to invite."
The explanation of the labels which led Bismarck with Italy, by
instigating revolutionary surveys in Hungary and Croatia Austria to
weaken the army and parts from the mentioned countries on the waste
from the Austrian army to bring, I will not describe in detail.

These operations show that high-and landesverräterische companies
just good enough to Bismarck on the goals, and high treason and crimes
only if they are out from below.
But also in the heavens . . . the
angels are the works of Christ: and does that man do greater works
than these, who co-operates with Christ in the work of his
justification? . . . let him, who can, judge whether it be greater to
create a righteous being than to justify an ungodly one. Certainly if
both are works of equal power, the latter is a work of greater mercy."

"But there is no need for us to understand all the works of Christ,
where He saith 'Greater than these shall he do.' Heat in Spain usual
tribute Bey us now in use, which would surely not good. Könte warlich
It is not the number of maids are: Why? We have nothing louder than
Mademoiselle. * * * Corintho burned; Corintho is verstöhrt; She is in
rubble and stone dust in Asch and wrong. Reichthum The pride and
glory, her wonderful fun, looks at some of this debris is Pilgrim.

Your Grabmaal Stellet us her farewell before my Wandre! who you are,
my handsome and my nap, my beautiful and wonderful, and highly enjoyed
life, Did my downfall and where ash = crypt. Corintho would devastate!
Wendt Lucifer soon. No! no! her likeness is still to be found Seyn. A
Phoenix dies while probably, but his ashes = Bring another hill,
which was strong and fresh wings, And new forces has. So the city went
well and your dust in the world has ausgetheilt,
Nas And by the brain and head and pushed through it, has now the
German spirit conquered my desire, So that now some city shoot
Corintho obtained, that they Todt still in their truck emblazoned.
penitents I Corintho that she is no longer available, Schadt What!

from their dust is some town.

I, I, as a Monarch, Lucifer speaks even more, I
think not only heard Bey powerful, nay even where Bey himself,
which only live in huts, where the Bey from North in the service
go to the steel and blood, the stranger from the robbery, the lazier
of milk, which differs from the pepper-dust, from the herring =
tail of oil, salt and butter; from The Ehl and twine and trousers
= Sub-feed; The grain and livestock, ranging from newspaper = Wind,
And what her foot erzehlet Freyer and inventions; The safest of all
the other things and Nehren; to be the lowest in town and country
include; they are, the Corintho auferbaut my city, And my face looks
as Empire pillars.

How Nero there on a lot of pomp and lust turned, And like Cleopatra
the largest treasure wasted; How the Jesabel gezieret and adorned;
Dießen Bey is Adlichen = people and citizen sees .

They want now to pomp and Geberden gentle, proud and bold at the
largest table will be similar.

As Jacobs Saame still lodge saw the pen, Da bang and glow under the
word omnipotence happened since Demuth was still the focus of the
Grose, It everyone looked at her outfit too loose.

So high, so regal, so the people governed frey, So much it Seeger
verspührt also temporal, but it was not her body sumptuously
eingehüllet The lips were not Leckerey erfüllet, scarlet, Rosinroth,
that was far from them, you are only dedicated to Heiligthum of the
Lord.

The best of their diet, the prettiest of the dish, they
worshiped the Lord, for his high prices.

Your joy, your honor = meal consisted only by, what the nature
begotten what the nature and conveniently served was healthy and a
good Stückgen bread, a piece by the young calf, a piece of fat
Hemmel; A cake that the woman will be nice to buck; A Wildpret that
the man himself was in the kitchen, The house and adorned table;
they hated = Yummy stuff, the blood, the seriousness of the drunk
make sense, And what life otherwise shorten saddened kan.

Rest lived many a woman, or man who lived some Alterthum highest Ins.
Now he must Bey early years, through abuse of his estate to the
realm of Todt drive; Where my Genius?

You lead me through the air to Rome, where your August in his marble
tomb in = = Lorber Travel asleep. He encourages it! his limbs to Liven
up a new and noble spirit of his ways; the point again.
Consequently it was fitting that, among other miracles, He
should also deliver those who were obsessed by demons.

Reply Obj. 1: Just as men were to be delivered by Christ from the
power of the demons, so by Him were they to be brought to the
companionship of the angels, according to Col. 1:20: "Making peace
through the blood of His cross, both as to the things on earth and
the things that are in heaven." Therefore it was not fitting to show
forth to men other miracles as regards the angels, except by angels
appearing to men: as happened in His Nativity, His Resurrection, and
His Ascension.

Reply Obj. 2: As Augustine says (De Civ. Dei ix): "Christ was known
to the demons just as much as He willed; and He willed just as far as
there was need. Peace on behalf of the Republic, respecting the law!
The Convention decided as follows: In consideration that in the prisons
there are traces of mutinies show, considering that Danton and
Camille Weiber money to the people and that raise the general
Dillon and erupt at the head of the rebel force to order the defendants
to free at last in that troubled even endeavored to bring performances
and the Tribunal tried to insult, the Tribunal is empowered to
continue the investigation to continue without interruption, and each
accused the Legislative guilty except awe eyes should, from the
debates ruled out. Danton. I ask those present whether the Tribunal,
we, the people or the National Convention have spoken mockery? Many
voices. No! No! Camille. The poor, they want to kill my Lucile!
Danton. One day you will recognize the truth. I see great misfortune
befall on France. That is the dictatorship, she has her veil torn,
it bears the high forehead, she moves through our bodies. (On Amar
Vouland and significant:) You see as the cowardly murderer, because
you see the ravens of the Welfare Committee, I complain of Robespierre,
St. Just and their executioners of high treason on. - You want the
Republic in the blood choke. The tracks of the carts are the
guillotine Heerstraße on which the residents in the heart of the
Fatherland to penetrate. How long should the footsteps of the
graves of his freedom? - You want bread, and they throw you head
out! Your durstet, and they make you the blood from the steps of the
guillotine lick! (Violent movement in the audience, screams of applause.)
Many voices. Long live Danton, settled with the Dezemvirn!
(The prisoners are also led to violence.) Tenth scene in front of
the Palace of Justice A Volkshaufe. Some voices. Down with the
Dezemvirn!

Long live Danton! First Citizens. Yes that's true, heads, instead
of bread, blood instead of wine! Some wives. The guillotine is a bad
mill and baker's Samson a bad servant, and we want bread, bread! Second
citizen. Euer bread, which has Danton eaten. His head is all you
give back bread, he was right. First Citizens. Danton was among us on
10 August, Danton was among us in September. Where were the people
who have accused him? Second citizens. And Lafayette was with you
in Versailles and was a traitor. First Citizens. Who said that
Danton was a traitor? Second citizens. Robespierre. First Citizens.
And Robespierre is a traitor! Second citizen. Who said that? First
Citizens. Danton. Second citizen. Danton has beautiful dresses,
Danton has a nice house, Danton has a beautiful wife, he is bathed
in burgundy, eats the game of silver plates and sleeps with
women and your daughters, if he is drunk. - Danton was poor like her.
How has he done? The veto has bought him, so he gave him the crown
rescue. The Duke of Orléans, he has a gift, so he gave him the crown
steal. The stranger has given him so that he tell you all. - What
did Robespierre? The virtuous Robespierre!

You know it all. All. Vive Robespierre! Down with Danton! Down with the
traitors! Fourth First Nude Scene Room Julie. A boy. Julie. It is
made of. They trembled before him. They kill him from fear. Go! I met
him for the last time seen, tell him that I could not see him. (They
give him a lock.) Da, making him and tell him he would not go alone
- he understands me now. And then quickly back, I want his eyes
from your eyes to read. The second scene A street Dumas. A citizen.
Citizens. How can you after such an interrogation so much condemn the
innocent to death? Dumas. This is indeed extremely, but the revolution
men have a sense of other people missing, and this sense they can
never be deceptive. Citizen. This is the meaning of the
tiger. - You have a wife.

Dumas. I will soon have one. Citizens. So is it true? Dumas. The
revolutionary court will pronounce the divorce, the guillotine
will allow us to separate table and bed. Citizens. You're a monster!
Dumas . nitwit! You admire Brutus?
For the man who was healed "became as
dead," says Jerome, "because to those who are healed it is said, 'You
are dead; and your life is hid with Christ in God'" (Col. 3:3)
_______________________

SECOND ARTICLE [III, Q. 44, Art. 2]

Whether It Was Fitting That Christ Should Work Miracles in the
Heavenly Bodies?

Objection 1: It would seem that it was unfitting that Christ should
work miracles in the heavenly bodies. For, as Dionysius says (Div.
Nom. iv), "it beseems Divine providence not to destroy, but to
preserve, nature." Now, the heavenly bodies are by nature
incorruptible and unchangeable, as is proved _De Coelo_ i. Therefore
it was unfitting that Christ should cause any change in the order of
the heavenly bodies.

Obj. 2: Further, the course of time is marked out by the movement of
the heavenly bodies, according to Gen. 1:14: "Let there be lights
made in the firmament of heaven . . . and let them be for signs, and
for seasons, and for days and years." Consequently if the movement of
the heavenly bodies be changed, the distinction and order of the
seasons is changed. But there is no report of this having been
perceived by astronomers, "who gaze at the stars and observe the
months," as it is written (Isa. 47:13). Therefore it seems that
Christ did not work any change in the movements of the heavenly
bodies.

Obj. 3: Further, it was more fitting that Christ should work miracles
in life and when teaching, than in death: both because, as it is
written (2 Cor. 13:4), "He was crucified through weakness, yet He
liveth by the power of God," by which He worked miracles; and because
His miracles were in confirmation of His doctrine. He will come
himself and his children back. His children, Waitwell! It's about
everything! - Yeah, I too read? (You lieset again for themselves.) -
I would like to pass! He says, those earning only too well to
his son, without which he could have no daughter. - Oh! if he had
never had this unfortunate daughter!

- Go, Waitwell, let me alone! He demands an answer, and I will
make them immediately. Ask again in an hour after. Thank you for
your having the trouble.

You're a pretty man Schaffner There are few friends of their minions
gentlemen Waitwell. You shame me, miss. If all men would be Sir
Williams, so the servants would have to be brutes, if not their
lives they wanted to leave. (Geht ab.) Fourth appearance Sara
(setzet they are to write down). When I got it a year and a
day before had said that I am on such a letter would need to
answer! And under such circumstances! - Yes, I have the spring in the
white hand .-- But I also know what I should write? What I think,
what I feel .-- And because what one thinks when one thousand times
in a crisscross thoughts? And what you feel because when the heart
before a loud in a deep sense is stunning - but I have to write -
I do so the spring is not the first time.

After they have had some small services, the courtesy and friendship
Abstatt help I should probably help her in the most important services
- (You think a little after that and writes a few lines.) This
is the beginning? A very frosty start. And I will because of his
love to start? I must begin with my crimes. (You strike out and
write differently.) The fact that I did not express them to the
top! - The Shame can be anywhere on his body right, but only when
the confessions are not our fault. I am not afraid to get into
exaggeration, although I have the dreadful trains applied .-- Oh,
why must I be now? Fifth appearance Marwood.

Mellefont. Sara. Mellefont. Dearest Miss, I have the honor of
Lady Solms you imagine what one of those people in my family is
what I'm most obliged recognize. Marwood. I must ask forgiveness, Miss,
that I'm so free, with my own eyes the fortunes of a cousin to lead,
the most perfect woman I wish the room would be if I do not like the
first sight would have been convinced that he is in you have already
been found. Sara. You erzeigen me too much honor, Lady. A flattery
like this I would be ashamed at all times have itzt but
should I do for almost a hidden accusation accept if I Solms Lady not
to be far too generous holding their superiority in virtue and
wisdom of an unhappy feeling to leave. Marwood (cold ). I'd be
inconsolable, Miss, if you give me other than the fraternal trust
attitudes .-- (Beiseite.) She is beautiful! Mellefont. And would it
also be possible, lady, against so much beauty, so much of humility
to remain indifferent? It is said in that a lovely woman from a room
rarely proved to be another justice: this is only on one side only of
those who on their merits too vain, and on the other only by such
understanding, which itself merits no are aware of. How far are
you both away from this event! - (To Marwood, which stands in thought.)
Is not it true, Lady, that my love nothing less than partisan been?
Is it not true that I will praise my abuse much, but does not so
much said when you find yourself? - But why so thoughts? - (Softly to
her.) You forget who you want. Marwood. Can I say it? - The
admiration of your favorite abuse led me to the consideration of
their fate. It was close to me that they are the fruits of their love
is not in their fatherland will enjoy. I reminded myself that they
have a father and how I said, a very loving father would have to
leave in order to be able to be yours, and I could not contain her
reconciliation with him to do so.

Sara. Oh! Lady, how much I am connected to this request. He deserves
it, that my joy with you all share. You may not know it yet, Mellefont
that he was satisfied before the lady love for us had to do it.
Mellefont. How would you describe this, Miss? Marwood (aside). What
does that say? Sara. Eben itzt I have a letter from my father.
Waitwell brought him to me. Oh, Mellefont, what a letter! Mellefont.
Geschwind tear me from my uncertainty. What have I to fear?
What have I to hope? Is he still the father, we fled? And if he still
is Sara the daughter who loves me tenderly enough to make it even
more to flee? Oh! I would have followed you, dear Miss, we would now
linked by a band that is from willful intent to disconnect it
probably would have failed. At this moment I feel all the misfortune
that our stay I discovered after being taken. He will come and you
break my arms. How I hate the non-worthy, which he has betrayed us!
(With an angry glance against Marwood.) Sara. Liebster Mellefont how
flattering it is your anxiety for me! And how happy we both are that
it is in vain! Read his letter .-- (Gegen die Marwood by Mellefont
the letter itself lieset.) Lady, he is about the love of my father's
surprise. My father? Oh! He is now also his. Marwood (affected). Is
it possible? Sara. Yes, Lady, you have reason to admire this change.
He forgives us everything, we will now before his eyes like he allows
us, he bids us .-- How did these Validity pervaded my whole
soul! -- Well, Mellefont? (The letter to her there again.) You
mention? Oh no, these tears that creeps from your eyes says more
than your mouth that could express. Marwood (aside). How much I hurt
myself! I careless! Sara. Oh! let me put these tears from your
cheek kiss! Mellefont. Oh Miss, why do we have such a divine man must
grieve? Yep, a divine man: for what is divine than forgive? - If
we look at this happy outcome possible, just as you can imagine: surely,
so we wanted it now so violent means not owe, and we wanted him solely
due to our requests have. What bliss is waiting for me! What is
painful to me but also his own conviction that this happiness I so
am unworthy! Marwood (aside). And I must listen to! Sara. How totally
justify such attitudes against you my love. Marwood (aside). What
forced me, I must do! Sara. And you, noble lady, have the letter my
father read. They seem too much to share our fate to take as its
content that you might be indifferent. Marwood. I am indifferent,
Miss? (She takes the letter.) Sara. But, lady, you still seem very
thinking, very sad .-- Marwood. After thinking, Miss, but not sad.
Mellefont (aside). Heaven! where she reveals! Sara. And why? Marwood.
I tremble for you both. Could the unexpected kindness of your father's
not an adjustment be? a ruse? Sara. Certainly not, Lady,
certainly not. Read only, and you'll even confess. The adjustment
is always cold, and so gentle in their language is not property.
(Marwood lieset for themselves.) If you are not suspicious, Mellefont,
I ask you. I stand you, that my father is no list can be lowering.
He says nothing that he did not think it is falsehood and an unknown
truck.

Mellefont. Oh! I am totally convinced liebste abuse .-- One must
suspect the Lady forgiven, because the man still does not know that
he meets. Sara (by the letter her Marwood returns). What I see,
lady? Decolourised you have? You tremble? What do you miss? Mellefont
(aside). In what I'm scared! Why did I also traditional? Marwood.
It's not abuse, as a little dizziness, which will pass. The night
air has me on the trip will not be. Mellefont. You frighten me,
lady - it's not like you, to draw fresh air?

Man is recovering in a room verschloßnen not so easy. Marwood. If you
think, so send me your arm. Sara. I will accompany you, Lady.
Marwood. I Make this courtesy abuse. My weakness is without consequences.
Sara. So I do hope, Lady again soon. Marwood. If you allow abuse -
(Mellefont carries them.) Sara (alone). The poor lady! - It seems
the friendly person not to be, but seems sullen and proud they
do not .-- I am alone again. Can I use the few moments that I might
be, to something as Besserm to complete my answer everything? (She
wants to sit down to write.) Sixth appearance Betty. Sara. Betty.
That was probably a very short visit. Sara. Yes, Betty. It is
Lady Solms, one of my kindred Mellefont. It transformed her
gähling a small weakness to. Where is she now? Betty. Mellefont
it up at the door support.

Sara. So yes, it is probably again? Betty. I guess it .-- But the more
I watch you, Miss - You must forgive me my freedom - the more I think
you changed. There is something quiet, something Zufriednes in
your eyes. Lady must be a very pleasant visit to the old man or
a very pleasant was his messenger. Sara. The last, Betty, the last.
He came from my father. What a tender letter, I want you to read it!
Your kind heart has so often wept with me, now it is also happy
with me. I'll be back and make you happy for your good offices
may be rewarding. Betty. What I have in a short nine weeks for
the services can afford? Sara. You had me its in my other life can
not afford more than these nine weeks. They are gone - only itzt Come,
Betty, perhaps because Mellefont alone again, so I must talk
about it yet. I just get the idea that it would be very good if he
at the same time with me to my father wrote to his thanksgiving
to be unexpectedly difficult.
Come! (You go from.)

Seventh appearance Hall.

Sir William Sampson. Waitwell. Sir William.

What balm, Waitwell, you have me by your story in my wounded heart
poured! I live on again, and her approaching return ebensoweit seems
to me my youth back again, as their escape me closer to the grave had
brought. She loves me still! What do I want more - so go back to her
soon, Waitwell. I can not expect the moment since I have anew in
these arms should be close, which I so eagerly stretched out
against the death had. How would he want me in my moments of
grief have been!

And how terrible it is to me in my happiness! An age is undoubtedly
to blame, if he ties it with the world, so tightly zuziehet again.
The finite separation is more painful .-- But God, who now may show
mercy on me, I will also help overcome this. Should he probably
prove a boon to me as to my disadvantage to perdition? Should he give
me a daughter back, so I know about his life from this Abfoderung
should grumble? No, no, he gives me them back to the last hour just
to worry myself to be. Thanks to you, eternal goodness! How weak
is the mouth thanks to a mortal! But soon, soon I will be consecrated
to him in an eternity can thank him worthy. Waitwell. How much it
amuses me, sir, before my end again pleased to know! Believe me it
just, I have almost as much on your jammers ausgestanden as yourself
Almost as much, not even so much: because of the pain of a father
may well be on such occasions to be unpronounceable.

Sir William. Look at you now, my good Waitwell no longer be my servant.
You've been around me long to earn a decent age to enjoy. I want
you also to create, and thou shalt have it no worse than I have
in the world will have. I want all the difference between us cancel,
in that world, you know well, he is repealed anyway .-- Only dasmal
was still the old servant, to which I never had to leave for nothing.
Go and give eight, that thou me their answer immediately bring it
when she is ready. Waitwell. I go, sir. But such a course is not
a service that I am doing. He is a reward to me for my services
indulge. Yes certainly, that's it.

(They go to different pages.) (End of the third lift.) Fourth First
appearance Melle Elevator fonts room. Mellefont. Sara. Mellefont.
Yes, dear Miss, yes, I will do I must do. Sara. How happy you make
me! Mellefont. I am alone, the whole crime must take upon itself.
I alone am guilty, I alone must ask forgiveness. Sara. No, Mellefont,
take me to the larger share which I wrote to our offense did
not. It is expensive to me, so he is a criminal offense, because he
must have convinced you that I think about everything Mellefont
in the world love .-- But is it true that I now love with the love
of my father combined may?

Or am I in a pleasant dream? How afraid I am losing him and my old
jammers to wake up!

- But no, I'm not just a dream, I'm really happier than I ever hoped
to be allowed; happier than maybe this short life permits. Perhaps
this seems beam of happiness just a matter of distant and seems to
me just about as flattering to come closer so he once again into
the thickest darkness, and melt me at once in one night let their
terribleness me through this brief enlightenment certainly become
palpable .-- What hunches torment me!

- Are there really hunches, Mellefont, or are they ordinary
sensibilities, which the expectation of a happiness undeserved, and
the fear of losing it, are inseparable? - How does my heart,
and how messy it is! How strong itzt how swiftly - And now, as dull
as anxious as shivering - Itzt hurry back, as if it were the last
shots, like it fairly quickly one after the other would do. Poor heart!
Mellefont. The hot blood of what sudden surprises not unlike that may
cause, will determine, abuse, and the heart is his duties quietly
continue. None of his shots zielet to the Future, and we are to
blame - forgive you, dear Sara - if we are mechanical oppression
of blood to make terrible prophet .-- Therefore, I want nothing
but refrain from doing anything to reassure yourself of this little
internal storm to hold serve.
From all these instances it is clear that Christ, when He willed,
changed the minds of men by His Divine power, not only by the
bestowal of righteousness and the infusion of wisdom, which pertains
to the end of miracles, but also by outwardly drawing men to Himself,
or by terrifying or stupefying them, which pertains to the miraculous
itself.

Reply Obj. 2: Christ came to save the world, not only by Divine
power, but also through the mystery of His Incarnation. Consequently
in healing the sick He frequently not only made use of His Divine
power, healing by way of command, but also by applying something
pertaining to His human nature. Hence on Luke 4:40, "He, laying His
hands on every one of them, healed them," Cyril says: "Although, as
God, He might, by one word, have driven out all diseases, yet He
touched them, showing that His own flesh was endowed with a healing
virtue." And on Mk. 8:23, "Spitting upon his eyes, laying His hands
on him," etc., Chrysostom [*Victor of Antioch] says: "He spat and
laid His hands upon the blind man, wishing to show that His Divine
word, accompanied by His operation, works wonders: for the hand
signifies operation; the spittle signifies the word which proceeds
from the mouth." Again, on John 9:6, "He made clay of the spittle,
and spread the clay upon the eyes of the blind man," Augustine says:
"Of His spittle He made clay--because 'the Word was made flesh.'" Or,
again, as Chrysostom says, to signify that it was He who made man of
"the slime of the earth."

It is furthermore to be observed concerning Christ's miracles that
generally what He did was most perfect. Hence on John 2:10, "Every
man at first setteth forth good wine," Chrysostom says: "Christ's
miracles are such as to far surpass the works of nature in splendor
and usefulness." Likewise in an instant He conferred perfect health
on the sick. Hence on Matt. 8:15, "She arose and ministered to them,"
Jerome says: "Health restored by our Lord returns wholly and
instantly."

There was, however, special reason for the contrary happening in the
case of the man born blind, and this was his want of faith, as
Chrysostom [*Victor of Antioch] says. If he is opposed to harden?
So I am not angry - I'll race. I feel it, Hannah, and would much
rather have itzt. Hannah. Be yes. It may perhaps come to the
moment. Marwood. Where did he only ways; the point! Where it is not
only decided to stand firm with me to expect - But do you know
Hannah, which I still hope my most grounds, the Ungetreuen of the
new objects of his love to be deducted?

Our Bella. Hannah. It is true, it is his little idol, and the idea
that they carry, would not be happier. Marwood. If his heart against
the language of an old love is deaf, he is given but the language
of blood to be audible. He snatched the child some time ago
from my arms, under the pretext to give him a kind of education given
to leave it with me could not have. I have it from the lady who is
under their supervision had itzt otherwise than by cunning can
recover, he had more than a year and still advance the day before
his flight explicitly ordered some Marwood, who may come and for
the mother of the child would spend, certainly not vorzulassen. For
this command, I acknowledge the difference he makes between us two.
Arabelle sees it as a precious part of itself to me as a loin, filled
him with all her charms, until satiety, has gesättiget. Hannah.
What ingratitude! Marwood. Oh Hannah, nothing attracts the
ingratitude so inevitable after as favors, for which no thanks would
be too great.

Why did I may show it to him, this unfortunate favors? Had I not foresee
it to be that their value is not always with him could keep? That
their value depends on the difficulty of pleasure and that he was
based with the same grace should disappear by the hands of time
imperceptibly but surely, from our faces extinguished?

Hannah. O, madam, this dangerous hand, you have nothing to fear long.
I think that the beauty of their magnificent blooms so little has
exceeded that much longer until it goes off every day and give
you new hearts and grab if you only wanted to give a power of attorney.
Marwood. Hush, Hannah! You flattered me with an opportunity, which
I suspect makes all the adulation. It
is nonsense, of new conquests to speak if you do not even have
enough forces to hold the already made to obtain.

A servant Second appearance. Marwood.

Hannah. The operated. Madam, you will have the honor to speak with
you.

Marwood. Who? The Serves. I suspect that it is Mr. ebender at what the
previous letter was written. Serves the least with him, to me it has
declined. Marwood. Mellefont! - Geschwind, lead him up! (The Serves
geht ab.) Oh, Hannah, now it is there! How should I receive it?
What can I say? Which face should I accept?

Is this quiet enough? Look! Hannah. Nothing less than peaceful.
Marwood. But this? Hannah. Enter her more grace. Marwood. Something
like this? Hannah. Too sad! Marwood. Should I let this smile? Hannah.
Absolutely!

However, only free - it ways; the point. Mellefont third appearance.
Marwood. Hannah. Mellefont (with a wild position hereintritt). Ha!
Marwood - Marwood (to him with open arms smiling entgegenrennt). Oh
Mellefont - Mellefont (aside). The murderer, what a sight! Marwood.
I have to hug you, faithless, dear refugee! - Let but my joy! -
Why snatch up my cuddled? Mellefont. Marwood, I suspected that I would
otherwise receive. Marwood. Why else? With more love, perhaps? with
more delight? Oh, I unhappy that I can express less than I feel! -
See Mellefont, you will see that the joy has its tears?

You roll it, these children of the sweetest lust! - But oh,
verlorne tears! dries his hand you do not. Mellefont. Marwood,
the time has passed since I had such a charmed speeches. You must
itzt in a different tone with me talking. I come here and
listen to your most recent allegations and respond to. Marwood.
Allegations?

What would I have to make accusations, Mellefont? None. Mellefont.
So would you, should I believe you can save your way. Marwood.

Dearest wonderful soul, why do you want me now by force compel a trifle
to do, which I have awarded in ebendem moments in which I learned? A
brief infidelity to me your gallantry, but not your heart spielet
deserve these accusations? Come, let us be joking. Mellefont. They
are wrong, my heart has more to share than ever to all our
Liebeshändeln has had, which I itzt not disgust back can see.

Marwood. Her heart, Mellefont is a good Närrchen. It can be anything
bereden what your imagination bereden his mind. Believe me, I know
it better than you. If it is not the best, the Herz getreuste, I would
probably me so much trouble, to keep it? Mellefont. To keep? They
have never owned it, I tell you. Marwood. And I tell you, I hold it
still in essence. Mellefont. Marwood, if I knew that you only have
a fiber which had, so I wanted it myself, here before your eyes, rip
out of my body. Marwood. They would see that you tore out my
while. And then, then they would finally ripped out the heart of
the association to reach them so often on our lips searched. Mellefont
(aside). What a snake! Here is his best to escape .-- Tell me
it just, Marwood, why you come after me? What you do to me? But
just say it without that smile, those without sight, out of which
I am a whole hell of seduction scare.

Marwood (confidential). Hear only Mellefont my dear, I remember well
how it itzt me you. Your desires and your taste are itzt your tyrants.
Let it be good, we must let them steam. To oppose them is folly. They
are the safest eingeschläfert and finally overcome even if one leaves
them free field. They rub themselves on. Can you tell me, little
flutter mind that I ever would have been jealous if stronger stimuli
than mine you me for a time away made? I treat you all the time so
this change, when I always won more than lost. You returned with new
fire, with new fervor back in my arms, I take you into the only
light in a gang and never included in heavy shackles. I'm often
not even been your confidante, to me if you already did not trust the
favors that you entwandtest me to make them against others to waste?
Why do you think because I sense a personal itzt against you would
begin to show to which I now just berechtiget to stop, or - perhaps
have already stopped?

If your heat against the beautiful country girl is not yet smoky, and
if you are still in the first fever of your love against them are, if
you still enjoy their can not do: if you stop you unless you so
long to be revealed, as you can for good find? so therefore you need
to make reckless attacks, and with it the rich want to flee?
Mellefont. Marwood, you talk about your character completely in
accordance with whose ugliness I never knew that since I have been in
the handling of a virtuous friend, the love of the lust distinguish
learned. Marwood.

Ei see it! Your new mistress is probably even a beautiful girl of moral
sentiments? Her husband must but people do not know what you want.
Soon it's the slippery speeches that buhlerhaftesten jokes that you
liked us, and soon we delight you, if we do not talk as a virtue and
all seven sages on our tongues seem to have. The worst thing is that
it both as one weary of the other will.

We may be foolish or sensible, secular or spiritual gesinnet: we
lose our effort to make you constantly, even as the other. You will
be sent to your beautiful Holy the series enough time to come.
Should I make a little over? Now you're just in the hotly
Paroxysmo with her, and this go, I make two or three days on
the longest. This is a pretty condescending love follow,
I'll give the eight days.

The other eight days, you will only occasionally to think of this
love.

The third will remind you
leave, and when thou hast tired of remembering this, then you will
be of extreme indifference so quickly brought to see that I am
hardly the fourth in eight days this last change may be expected -
now that would be about one month.

And this month, Mellefont, I will give you even more with the
greatest pleasure to see, only you'll allow that I do not lose the
history may be.

Mellefont.

Forgiveness, Marwood, find all the weapons with which you remember,
against me, otherwise happy to have been.

A virtuous decision assures me of your tenderness and against your
joke.

Nevertheless, I will no longer suspend two.
I go and you have nothing more to say than to me in a few days in
a way bound to know that you all hope for my return to your vicious
will destroy slavery.

My justification enough to be out of the letters ersehen have, which
I sent you before my departure can deliver.

Marwood. Well, that you remember this letter.

Tell me from whom did you let him write? Mellefont. I had not even
written it? Marwood. Impossible! The beginning of the same to what
you sent me I do not know what vorrechneten totals that you want me
to have wasted, an innkeeper, and the other theological balance a
Quaker wrote. Demungeachtet I want you to respond itzt seriously.

As far as the finest point, as you probably know that all the gifts
that you have made me, are still there. I have your Bankozettel,
your jewelry never viewed as my property and itzt brought everything
to bring it back into those hands to deliver it to me had anvertrauet.

Mellefont. Keep everything, Marwood. Marwood. I want nothing of it
remain. What I would have without your person for a right to? If I
no longer love, you have to me the justice to myself and none of the
rasp Buhlerinnen hold that it is much the same, from whose spoils
they enrich.

Come only Mellefont, the moment you should again be as rich as
you, perhaps without my acquaintance would have remained, and maybe
not.

Mellefont. Which spirit that has sworn my ruin, talks itzt from
you! A voluptuous Marwood not think so nobly. Marwood. Name the
noble? I call it nothing more than cheap. No, sir, no, not I ask that
you refund me this recovery as something special to be credited. It
costs me nothing, and even the slightest thanks, you wanted me to
say, I would for an insult, because he is no other meaning than
this might have, "Marwood, I held you for a vile impostor; Thank Me
that you are against me, at least not want to be. "Mellefont.
Enough, madam, enough! I flee, because my Unst in a dispute of
generosity to embroil drohet in which I am reluctant to subject wants.
Marwood. Fleeing only, but take everything with you what your
memories with me could renew. Poor, despised, without honor and
without friends, then I will once again dare, your compassion to
make lively. I want you in the unfortunate Marwood nothing but a
loin show the gender, reputation, virtue and conscience aufgeopfert
has for you. I want you to remember the first day because I saw and
loved, the first day, because I loved you sahe and, at the
first stammering, modestly term commitment to me to my feet by your
love test, the first insurance countermeasures love that you give me
auspreßten; to the gentle glances, to the fiery embrace, which
followed, to the eloquent silence, if we are busy with other senses
of the most secret emotions errieten and languishing in the eyes
the hidden thoughts of the soul read, to the trembling expectation
of the approaching lust, the pleasures of their drunkenness, to the
sweet solidification after the fullness of pleasure, where the
exhausted spirits to new delight recovered.

To all this I want to remind you, and then cover your knees and not
stop at the only gift to ask that you not fail me and I can not
blush too, must accept, - the death of your hands. Mellefont. Cruel!
I still wanted to own my life for oneself. Ask for it, calling it
only to my love make no further claims. I must leave you, Marwood, or
me to a disgust of the whole nature. I'm already a criminal offense
that I am only standing here and you listen. Live well! live well!

Marwood (his back). You need me? And what do you want to, made me
more? Itzt Just as I am, I am your creature, you do so, representing
a creator zukömmt he may the hand of his works are not abziehn
rather than to totally destroy it wants .-- Oh, Hannah, I see well,
my requests alone are too weak. Go, bring forth my audition, I might
itzt at once again there will be more than he has received from me.

(Hannah is from.) Mellefont. What kind of audition, Marwood?
Marwood. Ah, an audition, which I had only allzugern beraubet.
The nature of his actions for a shorter way to get your heart -
Mellefont. I am frightened. They are not - Fourth appearance Arabella.
Hannah. Mellefont. Marwood. Mellefont. What I see? She is there! -
Marwood, as you can stand under - Marwood. Shall I be mother in
vain? - Come, my Bella, come, see your protector here again, your friend,
your - Oh! the heart may tell him what he still has more than thy
protector than your friend can be. Mellefont (with opposite faces).
God! how is it delivered to me here? Arabellapark (by
giving him more fearful occurs).

Oh, my Lord! Are you there?

Are you our Mellefont? - But no, madam, it is not .

--If it were me, if it would be? If it were me in his arms close? He
has done so otherwise. I am unhappy child! What I would have angered
him because the man, love this man, I allowed myself to name his
daughter? Marwood. They remain silent, Mellefont? You do not treat the
innocent look? Mellefont. Oh! - Arabella. He seufzet yes, madam. What
is missing him? Can we not help him? I do not? You do not?

So let us sigh with him .-- Ah, now he sees me! - No, he looks away
again! He looks to the sky! What he wants? What he asks from the
sky? He wants to give him everything when he also failed to
everything! Marwood. Go, my child, go, falling at his feet. He wants
us to leave, he wants us to leave forever.

Arabellapark (before him niederfällt). Here lie I know. You leave
us? You leave us forever? Was it not already been a small eternity,
we now have missed? We will miss you again? You have so often
said that you loved us. Leaves one because that one loves? So I must
not love you well, for I wish never to leave.

Never, and will never leave you. Marwood. I will ask you to help
my child, help me also just - Well, Mellefont, see me at your feet
- Mellefont (she holds back, they will be prostrate). Marwood, Marwood
dangerous - And also you my favorite Bella (highlights on), whether
you are against your Mellefont? Arabella. I resist you? Marwood.
What you decide, Mellefont? Mellefont. What should I not, Marwood,
what I should not. Marwood (hugging him). Oh, I know very well that
the honesty of your heart all the time about the waywardness of
your desires has triumphed.

Mellefont. Bestürmen me nowhere. I am what you made me
want to make a perjured, a seducer, a robber, a murderer. Marwood.
Itzt be it a few days in your imagination, and afterwards you will
see that I have held, there really are. Just do, and go back
again with us. Arabellapark (flattering). Oh, yes! do it.
Mellefont. With you return? Can I do? Marwood. Nothing is easier
if you just want. Mellefont. And my abuse - Marwood. And your abuse
may see where it remains - Mellefont. Ha! Marwood barbaric, this
speech had me to the bottom of your heart to see - wicked And I go
back in but not me? Marwood. If you are to the bottom of my heart had
seen, you'd have discovered that it is more true mercy against
their misrule feel yourself as I say, real pity, because yours
is a selfish, tenderhearted mercy. You have absolutely love this
commercial too far. That you, as a man who for a long dealing
with our gender in the arts to seduce had finished, so against
a young woman in the room to control your superiority and experience
advantage, and not more rested, as to your purpose achieved: the
would like to go, and you can deal with the violence of your passion
apologize. With that an old father to his only child at times,
that to an old rechtschaffnen the few steps to his grave still so hard
and bitter made; that your desire for the strongest bands of the split
nature: that Mellefont, you can not responsibility. Make your mistake
again so good, so far as it is possible to remedy it. Enter the age
crying his support again, and send a gullible daughter in their house
back to you because you have abused it, not even have to do boring.
Mellefont.

It was still missing, that you will oppose my conscience urged me to
help! But that it would be cheap, what you say, I would not have an
iron forehead when I find it unfortunate abuse of themselves should
propose? Marwood. Now I will confess that I have already been
considered in advance, I give you this to avoid confusion. Once your
stay, I learned I have the old Sampson, under the hand of them leave
message. He is also very joys beside himself and had immediately
set off to do. I wundre me that he still is not here. Mellefont.
What do you say?

Marwood. Expect his arrival just quietly and let themselves against
the abuse not notice. I want you now no longer stop. Go back to her,
she would have suspected. But I promised you today again to see.
Mellefont. O Marwood with what attitudes I came to you and with
which I must leave you! One kiss, my dear Bella - Arabella. That
was for you, but now for me. Come back soon just so I please.
(Mellefont geht ab.)

Fifth appearance Marwood. Arabella. Hannah. Marwood (after it fetched
a deep breath). Victory! Hannah! but a sour victory! - Give me a
chair, I feel totally exhausted - (It is.), it was precisely the
time when he was found, even for a moment he may be made, I would
him a Marwood quite andre have shown.

Hannah. Ah, madam, what are you a woman! I would like the tendons,
you could resist. Marwood. He gave me too long resisted. And certainly,
certainly, I will not forgive him, that I have him almost to the
foot would have liked. Arabellapark. Oh no! You must forgive him
everything. He is so good, so good - Marwood. Hush, little Närrin!
Hannah. On which side did it not to be! But nothing, I think,
touched him more than the selflessness with which you are offered,
all gifts received by him to return. Marwood. I think so too. Ha! ha!
(Verächtlich.) Hannah. Why laugh at you, madam? If it was not
your seriousness as you dared, in fact, very much.

That he would check with your words? Marwood. O go! we must know whom
one ahead of it. Hannah. Well, I confess! But you, my beautiful
Bella, do your thing excellently done; splendidly! Arabella. Why?
Could it because I done differently? I had him so long not seen.
They are not evil, madam, that I had loved him so? I have loved
you like him so well loved. Marwood. Okay; dasmal I will forgive
you, that you do not prefer to have as him.

Arabellapark. Dasmal? (Schluchzend.)

Marwood. You probably even cry? Why? Arabella. Oh no! I weep not.

Will you not only indignant. I want all you like, both so dear, so
fond of, that I neither impossible nor you prefer it can have.
Marwood. The more so now! Arabella. I'm quite unhappy - Marwood. Be
just silent - But what is this? Sixth appearance Mellefont. Marwood.
Arabella. Hannah. Marwood. Why do you come again, Mellefont? (She gets
up.) Mellefont (heated).

Because I'm nothing more than a few moments had needed to return to
myself to come. Marwood. Now? Mellefont. I was stunned, Marwood,
but not moved. They have lost all your effort, an air other than
this contagious air of your room gave me courage and strength back,
my foot out of the dangerous noose still enough time to draw.
I had the plot of a Nichtswürdigem Marwood not yet known enough? Marwood
(hastily). What is it again for a language? Mellefont. The language
of truth and of the reluctance. Marwood.

Room Only, Mellefont, or I will speak this language. Mellefont. I'm
just back, you no longer in a moment of mistaken me stuck to leave
me, even in your eyes, do it contemptuously.

Arabellapark (fearful). Oh! Hannah - Mellefont. See me so angry,
when you want. The more angry the better. Was it possible
that I am between a Marwood and Sara for a moment could remain
unentschlüssig? And that I almost decided for the former would
have been? Arabella. Oh Mellefont! - Mellefont.

Do not tremble, Bella. For you, I came back with.

Give me a hand and follow me safely. Marwood (both back). Who should
they follow, Traitor? Mellefont. Your father. Marwood. Go, miserable,
and learn to know only their mother. Mellefont. I know it. It is
the shame of her gender - Marwood. Take them away, Hannah!
Mellefont. Stay, Bella. (As he wants to hold them back.) Marwood.
Only no violence, Mellefont, or - (Hannah and Arabella are going
to sell.) Seventh Mellefont appearance. Marwood. Marwood. Now we
are alone. Now say it again, if you are determined to me a young Närrin
aufzuopfern? Mellefont (bitter). Aufzuopfern? They do that here,
I remember that the old gods also very unclean animals were sacrificed.
Marwood (mockingly). Press without allusions learned from it.
Mellefont.

So I tell them that I am firmly resolved never again without
the horrible curses to you to think. Who are you? and who is Sara?
They are a voluptuous, selfish, shameful Buhlerin that are
little more itzt must remember once to have been innocent.

I have nothing to be ashamed of you, as the one that I enjoyed what you
are without me, perhaps the whole world would be enjoying. You have
searched me, not I, and if I now know who Marwood, so my ways; the
point that knowledge is expensive enough to stand. It costs me my
property, my honor, my luck - Marwood. And so I wanted that you
also would have cost your bliss! Monster!
Since,
therefore, it is in baptism that we acquire grace, while the clarity
of the glory to come was foreshadowed in the transfiguration,
therefore both in His baptism and in His transfiguration the natural
sonship of Christ was fittingly made known by the testimony of the
Father: because He alone with the Son and Holy Ghost is perfectly
conscious of that perfect generation.

Reply Obj. 1: The words quoted are to be understood of God's eternal
speaking, by which God the Father uttered the only-begotten and
co-eternal Word. Nevertheless, it can be said that God uttered the
same thing twice in a bodily voice, yet not for the same purpose, but
in order to show the divers modes in which men can be partakers of
the likeness of the eternal Sonship.

Reply Obj. 2: Just as in the Baptism, where the mystery of the first
regeneration was proclaimed, the operation of the whole Trinity was
made manifest, because the Son Incarnate was there, the Holy Ghost
appeared under the form of a dove, and the Father made Himself known
in the voice; so also in the transfiguration, which is the mystery of
the second regeneration, the whole Trinity appears--the Father in the
voice, the Son in the man, the Holy Ghost in the bright cloud; for
just as in baptism He confers innocence, signified by the simplicity
of the dove, so in the resurrection will He give His elect the
clarity of glory and refreshment from all sorts of evil, which are
signified by the bright cloud.

Reply Obj. 3: Christ came to give grace actually, and to promise
glory by His words. Therefore it was fitting at the time of His
transfiguration, and not at the time of His baptism, that men should
be commanded to hear Him.

Reply Obj. 4: It was fitting that the disciples should be afraid and
fall down on hearing the voice of the Father, to show that the glory
which was then being revealed surpasses in excellence the sense and
faculty of all mortal beings; according to Ex. 33:20: "Man shall not
see Me and live." Sir William. Yes, Waitwell, just ask, I convinced
them to be. I can not do it longer, it is the linchpin of my age,
and if they do not meet the rest of my life sad versüßen help, who
should it be done? If she still loves me, it is their fault
forgotten.
It was the errors of a tender girl, and her flight was the impact
of their repentance.

Such offenses are better than forced virtues - But I feel it Waitwell,
I feel it, even if these crimes true crime, even if it is intentional
vices would be: oh!

but I would forgive
her.

I would rather by a vicious daughter than from any wish to be
loved. Waitwell. Dry your tears from, dear Sir! I hear someone
coming. It is the landlord that we receive. Second, the economic
performance.

Sir William Sampson. Waitwell. The landlord. So early on, sirs, so
early? Welcome! welcome, Waitwell! You are without doubt the
night there?

Is this the Lord, of whom you spoke with me yesterday searched?

Waitwell. Yes, he is there, and I hope that you abgeredetermaßen
- The landlord.

Gracious Lord, I am quite at your service.

What is to me whether I know it or not, what you here for a cause,
and why you in my Verborgnen want to be?

A host takes his money and his guests can do what they gutdünkt.

Waitwell has said to me that the strange Lord, who has been a few
weeks with his young female staying with me, watch a little want.

But I hope that it will cause any annoyances.

It would be my house into a reputation for bringing evils, and some
people would be afraid to sell to me.

Our One has all sorts of people live .-- Sir William.

Besorget nothing, just brings me into the room, the Waitwell I
ordered.

I come from rechtschaffnen intentions here.

The landlord. I like your secrets are not aware, Gracious Lord!

The curiosity is not my fault. I would have, for example, have long
experience, who the Lord is strange that you want to watch, but I
do not like.

So far, I have probably brought out that he and the woman must go
through his room.

The good bitch, or what it is! it remains the whole day in her office
and cries included.

Sir William. And crying? The landlord. Yes, and cries - But, Gracious
Lord, why you crying? The Women's Room have to go very close. You
are surely not - Waitwell. No longer hold him on. The host. Come.
Only one wall is from the woman's separate rooms, which is so close
to you, and maybe - Waitwell. You want it so with all the violence
know who - The landlord. No, Waitwell, I know nothing. Waitwell. Well,
do so and bring us to the related site, even before the whole house
is awake.

The landlord. Would you follow me, then, Gracious Lord? (Geht ab.)
Third appearance Median curtain is raised. Melle fonts room. Mellefont
and then be operated. Mellefont (unangekleidet in an armchair).
Another night, I attended the torture would not spend can be cruel!

- Norton - I must only do that I get to see faces. I remained with my
thoughts longer alone: they want to lead me too far .-- Hey Norton!
He is still asleep. But I am not cruel, that I am the poor devil
can not sleep? How happy he is! - But I do not want that man to
me was happy .-- Norton! Norton (forthcoming). My Lord! Mellefont.
Dress me! - O'm no sauern faces! If I am going to sleep, so
I'll allow that you can sleep even longer.

If you think of your duty not want to know, so at least have pity on
me. Norton. Pity, sir? Pity with you? I know better where the pity
belongs. Mellefont. And what then? Norton. Oh, get dressed, and ask
me nothing. Mellefont. Executioner! Sun will also be your references
to my conscience to wake up?

I understand you, I know who your pity exhausted .-- But, I let her,
and justice to me. All right, have no pity on me. Curse me in
your heart, but - even curse you. Norton. Even me? Mellefont.
Yes, because you're a miserable service that the planet can bear,
and because you're part of his crimes with permanent searched.

Norton. I am your crimes to participate? By what? Mellefont. The
fact that you have to remain silent. Norton. Excellent! In the
heat of your passions a word I would have cost the neck .-- And when
I met you, I found you are not already so bad that all hope for Beßrung
vain? What a life I do not from the first moments lead to see it!
Nichtswürdigsten In the company of players and Landstreichern - I call
them what they were, and return me to its title, knights and
the like, not - in such a society brought a fortune to you the way to
the biggest honor bodies would bahnen can. And what about your
criminal dealings with all types of woman, especially the evil
Marwood - Mellefont. Set me, set me back in this life: it was in
virtue of my Comparative Itzig. I vertat my property; good. The penalty
ways; the point after, and I will be everything the hard and humiliating
deficiency has time enough. I visited vicious woman, let it be. I
was often tempted, when I seduced, and I myself seduced,
seduces wanted to be .-- But - I had no verwahrlosete virtue on my
soul. I had no presumption of innocence in a unabsehliches disaster.
I had not yet Sara from the house of a beloved father's stolen and
they are forced, one not worthy to follow, which in no way was more
his own. I had - Who ways; the point is so early to me? Fourth appearance
Betty. Mellefont. Norton. Norton. It's Betty. Mellefont. Already on,
Betty? What does your lady? Betty. What makes them? (Schluchzend.)
It was long after midnight when I finally moved, to go to sleep.
They slept a few moments, but God! God! for what must have been a
sleep! Suddenly she went into the air, jumped up and struck me as
an unhappy in her arms, by a murderer is pursued. They trembled,
and a cold sweat flowed through the erblaßte her face. I turned
everything in, to calm them, but they gave me until the morning
with only silent tears replied. Finally, it has me even more than the
other sent to your door, to hear whether you were already on. She wants
you speak. You alone can comfort them. Just do it, dearest
Gracious Lord, you do it. The heart must I go, if they are so
frightened to continue.

Mellefont. Go, Betty, tell her that moment I wanted to be with her -
Betty.

No, they will even come to you. Mellefont. Well then tell her that I
expect them - Oh!

- (Betty goes anyway.) Fifth appearance Mellefont. Norton. Norton. God,
abuse the poor! Mellefont. Whose feelings do you want from your
busy Proclamation do? Look, there is the first tear that I have my
childhood geweinet, down the cheek! - Poor preparation, a comforting
afflicted looking to receive. Why it also looks at me? - But where
should they seek it otherwise - I must act. (By making the eyes dry.)
Where is the old steadfastness with which I was a beautiful sight to
see crying? Where is the gift of movement out of which I was able
to say what I wanted? - Now they come and cry tears irresistible.
Confused, embarrassed, I will stand before her, as a convicted
sinner, I will stand before her. Rate me, what should I do? what can
I say? Norton. They should do what they will require. Mellefont. So
I will be a new ferocity to their offense.

With wrong they blame the delay in a ceremony which itzt without our
ultimate ruin in the kingdom can
not be completed. Norton.

How do you get that you leave.

Why do we hesitate? Why passes a day that goes by why a week after the
other? Me wearing it on.

They will be embark tomorrow. Perhaps, that her grief is not all
about the sea follows that it is a part of that behind, and in another
country - Mellefont. All that I hope - Still, it ways; the point.
How does my heart - Sixth appearance Sara. Mellefont. Norton.
Mellefont (by her, he goes). You have had an uneasy night, dearest
abuse - Sara. Oh, Mellefont if it is nothing but a restless night
would be - Mellefont (for servants). Leave us! Norton (the departure).
I also wanted to not stop and if I like every moment with gold
would be paid.

Seventh appearance Sara. Mellefont. Mellefont. You are weak, dearest
abuse. You need to sit down. Sara (she is). I am troubled very
early, and you will forgive me is that my complaints back to the
morning start? Mellefont. Most expensive abuse, you want to say
that you do not forgive me, because another morning has been released
without your actions that I had made an end. Sara. What should
I not forgive you?

You know what I've forgiven you already. But the ninth week, Mellefont,
the ninth weeks starts today, and this miserable house sees me still
on the foot just as the first day. Mellefont. So you doubt my love?
Sara. I, to doubt your love? No, I feel my misery too much, too much,
as I myself this last, only to rob the same Versüßung. Mellefont.
How can my abuse over the postponement of a ceremony to be restless?
Sara.

Oh, Mellefont, why do I have a different concept of this ceremony to
have? - Enter the female always thinking a bit. I imagine that a
further consent of the sky lies.

Freely I have just revived the long evening yesterday trying to
accept your terms and doubt from my chest to banish that you, itzt
not the first time, fruits of my distrust viewed. I argued with
myself, I was sensible enough, my mind numb, but my heart and threw
an inner feeling at once the tedious building of conclusions übern
pile.

Mids from the sleep I awoke punitive voices, with which my imagination,
to torment me, joined. As for images, what kind of horrific images
raved around me! I wanted to keep happy for dreams - Mellefont.
How? My sensible Sara should hold for something more? Dreams, dear
Miss, dreams! - How unhappy is the man! Fand its creator in the
realms of reality, not torment enough for him? He had them to
proliferate, including a still further into the realm of fantasies
he created? Sara. They complain not to the sky! He has fantasies of
violence in our left. They are based on our deeds, and if that our
obligations and in accordance with virtue, then serve their
accompanying fantasies for the propagation of our peace and our
pleasure. A single act, Mellefont, one blessed by a messenger of
peace on behalf of the eternal goodness to us will be paid shattered
my imagination can heal again.

Are you still give me the sake of the one a few days more to
be done, but what you will do once? I pity you and think about
that when I also just sufferings of the imagination free, but they
imagined agony and torment for those who she feels are real agony
.-- Oh, I could give you only half as vividly the horrors of my
previous night to tell when I've felt - from wine and complaints,
my only work, tired, I fell with half-closed eyelids on the bed.

Nature wanted to relax for a moment, to collect new tears. But
still I do not quite asleep, when I referred to once on the steep
parts of the horrible rock sahe. They went before me, and I followed
you with fluctuating timid steps, which now and then, a look
reinforced what to me zurückwarfen.

Quickly I heard behind me a friendly call, which ordered me to stand
still. It was the sound of my father - I loin! I can not because
he forgot? Oh! where his memorial service will also cruel, where he
also can not forget me! - But he has forgotten me. Consolation!
consolation for his cruel Sara! - Listen to only Mellefont; by
getting me to this famous scout voice wanted my foot slips and I
staggered and should just fall into the abyss than I am, nor
at the right time, from a me similar person felt held back.
Even I wanted to thank her the fiery Abstatt as a dagger in the bosom
moved. I rescued you, they screamed to spoil yourself! They won with
the armed hand - and oh! I woke up with bites. I still
felt leveling everything a fatal stab Painful can have without
the feeling that he must have pleasant: the end of punishment in
the end of life may be hope. Mellefont. Oh!

dearest Sara, I promise you the end of your pain without the end of
your life, which is certainly the end of the mine would be.
Forget the terrible tissue of an absurd dream. Sara. The force,
to be able to forget it, I expect from you. It was love or seduction,
it was luck or misfortune,
which I would be thrown into the arms has, I am in my heart and
yours will be there forever.

But still I am not in front of the eyes that judge, the slightest
infractions of his rules to punish gedrohet has - Mellefont.

So since all the punishment falls on me alone! Sara. What can fall on
you, me, should not - but Do not Stop my urgent wrong.

A woman raquel room, the same by a misstep in their honor had been
deprived of, it would perhaps through a lawful band is nothing but a
part of that re-search. I, Mellefont think it is not because I
am in the world of no further wants honor than the honor, to love
you. I will work with you not the world's sake, I want you for my own
sake as well. And if I am, I will like to take shame upon myself,
as if I do not think it would be.

They are me, if you do not want your wife can not explain, you
should be able to explain myself, for what you want. I will not
carry your name and you will be our connection to keep secret,
as it is for good, and I want to be unworthy of the same forever,
when I look into the mind leave, another advantage as the calming
of my conscience to be drawn. Mellefont.

Keep an abuse, or I must be right before your eyes of death.
How miserable I am, that I do not have the heart, you have to make
miserable! - Remember that you are my leadership have left, keep in
mind that I'm guilty, for us hinauszusehen, and that I itzt against
your Complaints must be deaf if I do not follow in the whole of
your life, even more painful to hear complaints will lead. Was it
because you forget what I have on my justification is often presented?
Sara. I did not forget Mellefont.

You want to predict a certain legacy .-- You want to save time before
goods and save me, perhaps eternal verscherzen leave it. Mellefont.
Oh Sara, when you all temporal goods as certainly better than your
virtues are the eternal - Sara.

My Virtue? Give me this word is not - otherwise it sounded sweet to
me, but itzt schallt me is a terrible thunder! Mellefont. How? must
be the one who should be virtuous, no mistakes? Has a single such
unfortunate effects that he had a whole series unsträflicher years
can destroy? So no man is virtuous, then the virtue a ghost that is
in the air zerfließet if it is on the tightest hugs who thinks so
has no way being our obligations under our forces measured, as is the
desire to punish us to be able to The first purpose of our
existence, is so - before I scare all the dreadful consequences to
which your faint tangle must! No, Miss, you are still the virtuous
Sara, you are in front of my acquaintance were unhappy. If you are so
cruel, even with eye view, with what eyes you have to consider me!
Sara. With the eyes of love, Mellefont. Mellefont. So I ask you because
of this love for this noble, all my unworthiness overlooked love's
sake, at your feet, I ask you: calm down. If you have only a few
days of patience. Sara. Some days! How is a day so long!
Mellefont. Cursed legacy! Verdammter nonsense of a dying cousin, who
sent me his assets only with the condition have wanted a Anverwandtin
hand to give me as much as I hate them! You, inhuman tyrant our free
inclinations, you will all the unhappiness, all attributed to the
sin to which we bring your compulsion! - And if I am their only
entübriget could be this disgraceful legacy! As long as my father's
assets to my conversation sufficed, I have them all verschmähet time
and they do not even gewürdiget me to explain it. But itzt, itzt,
because I all the treasures of the world would like to have just
a question to them at the feet of my being able to Sara, itzt,
because at least I think it must, according to her position in the
world appear to be, I must itzt I take refuge there.

Sara. With the last but you still fail. Mellefont. You always suspect
the worst .-- No, the women's room, which is concerned with, is not
ungeneigt, a kind of reference address.

The assets should be shared, and because they do not quite enjoy
it with me, so it is satisfied that I am with half my freedom by
buying it must. I expect every hour the last news in this case, the
delay alone, our stay here so long has made. Once I got it, we no
longer dwell time. We want immediately, dearest Miss, go to France,
where you will find new friends who itzt have the pleasure to see you
and you love happy. And these new friends is the testimony of
our connection - Sara. These will be the witnesses of our connection?
- Cruel! This connection it should not happen in my fatherland? So
should I change my fatherland as a Verbrecherin leave? And as such,
do you think I would have enough courage for me to trust the lake? His
heart must be calm or nefarious than mine, which is only a moment
between himself and the ruin with indifference but a fluctuating
board can see.

In each wave, which in our ship schlüge, would give me the death roar,
the wind would give me any of the coasts of curses after his
father's buzz, and the smallest storm I would be a blood court over
my head seem to be. - No, Mellefont, as a barbarian, you can not be
against me. If I had the end of your settlement experience, it
must be on a day you do not arrive, the longer we spend here. It must
be that the day on which tortures me all the days here tear
forgotten teach. It must be that the holy day - Ah! What will it
finally be? Mellefont. But think you not, Miss, that our connection
here that
celebration would be missing that we enter her guilty?

Sara. A holy act is not the ceremony more meaningful.

Mellefont. Solo - Sara. I am amazing.

You surely do not want on such a trivial excuse be? O Mellefont,
Mellefont! when I look at it is not unbreakable laws had never in
the sincerity of your love to doubt it would give me that fact
- but already too much, it wants to seem as if I had just itzt
out in doubt. Mellefont. The first moment of doubt should be the last
of my life!

Oh, Sara, so I deserve it, that you give me just the same way can
foresee?
The seventh reason is because this kind of death responds to very
many figures. For, as Augustine says in a sermon on the Passion
(Serm. ci De Tempore), an ark of wood preserved the human race from
the waters of the Deluge; at the exodus of God's people from Egypt,
Moses with a rod divided the sea, overthrew Pharaoh and saved the
people of God. the same Moses dipped his rod into the water, changing
it from bitter to sweet; at the touch of a wooden rod a salutary
spring gushed forth from a spiritual rock; likewise, in order to
overcome Amalec, Moses stretched forth his arms with rod in hand;
lastly, God's law is entrusted to the wooden Ark of the Covenant; all
of which are like steps by which we mount to the wood of the cross.

Reply Obj. 1: The altar of holocausts, upon which the sacrifices of
animals were immolated, was constructed of timbers, as is set forth
Ex. 27; and in this respect the truth answers to the figure; but "it
is not necessary for it to be likened in every respect, otherwise it
would not be a likeness," but the reality, as Damascene says (De Fide
Orth. iii). But, in particular, as Chrysostom [*Athanasius, vide A,
III, ad 2] says: "His head is not cut off, as was done to John; nor
was He sawn in twain, like Isaias, in order that His entire and
indivisible body might obey death, and that there might be no excuse
for them who want to divide the Church." Mellefont. Will you let me
know what you imagined? Norton. In a loud delight to find. Mellefont.

Only the mob is the same except that, if his luck smiles again. Norton.
Perhaps because of the mob nor his feeling that in the making by
thousands unnatural and depraved ideas weakened. Alone in her
face is still a bit differently than moderation to read.

Kaltsinn, indecision or reluctance - Mellefont. And if so? Did you
forget who else apart from the Sara is here? The presence of Marwood
- Norton. Could you probably worried, but not depressed you do .--
beunruhiget something different. And I will gladly geirret, if you
do not prefer to have seen, the father would still not reconciled.
The view in a stand that is so little to send your way of thinking
- Mellefont. Norton! Norton! you must be a frightening baddie
either have been or will be that I'm guessing you can. Because
thou hast made it, I will not deny it. It is true, then surely it is
that I think Sara will forever love, so little to me, that I will love
them forever - should - besorgs But nothing I want more than this
foolish siegen Grille. Or do not you agree that there is a cricket is?
Who called me to
marriage as a coercive view?

I wish I did not, free to be as they will let me.

Norton. These considerations are very good.

But Marwood, Marwood is your old prejudices come to their aid, and
I fear, I fear - Mellefont. What never will happen. Do they still
travel back to London to see. Because I tell you my secret - madness,
I want it only under his name - had confessed, so I can not hide
you that I Marwood hunted in such fear, that they are perfectly
in my lowest Winke be comfortable.

Norton. You tell me something incredible. Mellefont. Look, this murderer,
I pulled her iron from the hand (he shows him the dagger, which he
made the Marwood), as they told me at the terrible anger punctured so
that the heart wanted. Do you believe it will soon, that I held her
firmly Obstand have? Initially, there is not much, they would
return me their noose around the neck is thrown. The traitor has
Arabelle at all times. Norton. Arabelle? Mellefont. I still can not
investigate, which they list the child back into their hands get.

Enough, the success was not for them as if they no doubt had hoped.
Norton. Allow you that I am happy about your steadfastness and your
better half already salvaged must hold. Alone - but because I want
to know everything - what's under the name of Lady Solms gesollt
here?

Mellefont. She wanted her rival to see all violence. I agreed
to their request, some of indulgence, partly from Übereilung,
partly from desire, she by the sight of the best of her sex to humiliate
.-- You shake your head, Norton - Norton. That I would not have dared.
Mellefont. Daring?

Actually, I ventured nothing is more than I do in case of refusal
would have dared. It would be Marwood vorzukommen searched, and
the worst thing for her to arrange visits unknown, it is not
worse. Norton. Thank you to the sky, so quiet that it expired.
Mellefont. It is still not quite over, Norton. It pushed her a little
malaise, that they are not to leave, had wegbegeben. She wants
to come back .-- Loves it! The wasp, the sting has lost (by
focusing on development, the dagger, which he returned to the bosom
lies), but may be nothing more than buzz. But the totals it
should be expensive when it is so überlästig .-- I am not hearing
anyone come? Leave me if it is .-- It is. Go! (Norton geht ab.)
Fourth appearance Mellefont. Marwood. Marwood. You see me without a
doubt, very reluctant to come back. Mellefont. I see it very much,
Marwood, that your indisposition been without consequences. You are
still better? Marwood. So, so! Mellefont. So you have not done well,
again to seek hieher. Marwood.

Thank you, Mellefont if it made provision for myself. And I suppose
you are not bad, if you mean something else. Mellefont. It is my
pleasant, quiet as can be seen. Marwood. The storm is over. Forget
it, I ask again. Mellefont. Forget your promise not only, Marwood, and
I wish to forget everything .-- But if I knew that you consider
it not an insult to accept wanted, I would probably ask - Marwood.

Ask only Mellefont. You can not offend me .-- What would you ask?
Mellefont. As they have liked my abuse. Marwood. The question is, of
course. My answer will not seem so natural, but it is nevertheless no
less true .-- It has very much liked me. Mellefont. This impartiality
delighted me. But wär 'is also possible that, whatever the charms
of Marwood appreciate knowing a bad choice could? Marwood. This flattery,
Mellefont if one is different, you have to spare me. She wants to be
with my intent, you forget, not tolerated. Mellefont. You do not
want that I make this intent by rudeness easier? Let our separation
is not the nasty kind. Let's break each other as people of reason,
the need to deviate.

Without bitterness, without rancor and with maintaining a high degree
of respect, as he is to send our former confidentiality.

Marwood. Former confidentiality? - I do not want to be reminded. Nothing
more of it! What needs to be done, and it needs to happen to the
little ways; the point type, with which it is done .-- But a word
of Arabelle. You want me they can not?

Mellefont. No, Marwood. Marwood. It is cruel, because your
father can not stay, that you also want to take the mother. Mellefont.
I can keep her father and wants it to stay. Marwood. To prove it
itzt equal. Mellefont. How?
Marwood.

Let that Arabellapark the riches that I have you in custody as part
of her father may have.

What her mother's part, so I probably wanted to wish her a beßres
I could be the shame of me to be born.

Mellefont. Talk not so .-- I want for Arabelle, without her mother
because of a decent livelihood to put in a predicament. If they want
to forget me, it must make a start that they have something of
me to have forgotten. I have debts against them and will never go
out of mind, that my true happiness, though against their will,
has promoted. Yes, Marwood, I thank you in all earnest that you our
stay a father betrayed that just the same ignorance prevented us
tend not to return.

Marwood. It tortures me with a thank you that I never had to earn. Sir
William is a good age to fool: he must think differently than I
in his place would have thought. I would forgive the daughter, and
her seducer hätt 'I - Mellefont. Marwood - Marwood. It is true, and
you yourself are silent .-- I Am I Miss My Abschiedskompliment may
soon make?

Mellefont. Sara abuse would not übelnehmen you can, if you also
wegreiseten without wiederzusprechen. Marwood. Mellefont, I play my
roles do not like half, and I will also not strange name for a
women's room without life are kept. Mellefont. If you love your own
peace, so should you even care, a person need to see that some ideas
from you busy to do it - Marwood (mockingly smiling). You have a
better opinion of himself than of me. If you also thought that I would
be inconsolable Ihrentwegen, so you should at least quite in silence
.-- abuse believe Sara will be some ideas to make me busy?

Certain? Oh, yes - but not certain as these that the best girls often
nichtswürdigsten man can love. Mellefont. Allerliebst, Marwood,
allerliebst! Now you are equal in the constitution, in which I
gladly would have long ago: whether it would be like me, as I said,
almost would have been better if we are some common respect for each
other may have retained. But perhaps there is still this, if only the
brewing heart has only ausgebrauset .-- Let that I leave a few
moments alone.

I want to abuse you get Sampson. Marwood Fifth appearance (by order
herumsieht). Am I alone? - Can I unnoticed even a breath and the
muscles of the face in its natural location to drive - I must quickly
once all the mines in the true Marwood, to the forced displacement
of back to be able to endure .-- How I hate thee, low adjustment!

Not because I love the honesty, but because you are the refuge of the
poor are powerless vindictiveness. Certainly I would not be lowering
to you, if I a tyrant's violence, or the sky wanted to entrust his
lightning .-- But when you take me to my only purpose bringest! -
The beginning is promising, and yet Mellefont seems to want to be
safer .

If I succeed in my list that I am alone with his Sara can talk: so
- yes, it is still very uncertain whether it will help me a bit.
The truths of the Mellefont you might be nothing new, which may
not be defamation, it will perhaps not believe the threats, and
perhaps disdain.

But should it Truth, defamation and threats, hear from me. It would
be bad if it in her mind completely and no sting behind .-- Still!
they come from. I am now no longer Marwood: I am a non worthy
infringement, by the small art handles the shame of looking
off to one getretner worm that eats krümmet and that has made him,
at least the heel wound happy wishes. Sixth appearance Sara. Mellefont.
Marwood. Sara. I am happy, Lady, that my trouble was in vain. Marwood.
Thank you, miss. The coincidence was too small to be that he would
have to be worried. Mellefont. Lady wants to encourage you,
dear Sara. Sara. So hurry, lady? Marwood. I can for those who in
my presence in London is not enough. Sara. But today you will not
break again? Marwood. With the early morning. Mellefont. With the
early morning, Lady? I thought today. Sara. Our acquaintance,
Lady, begins in the very Vorbeigehn. I flatterer me in future
for a closer contact with you gewürdiget them. Marwood. I ask for
your friendship, abuse. Mellefont. I am you, dear Sarah, that this
plea of the lady is sincere, if I predict to you, that you no doubt
each other again will not be long. Lady will be with us in a very few
places you can stay - Marwood (aside). How beautiful! Sara.
Mellefont, that is to me a very nice hope to rob. Marwood. I will
lose the most are happy, miss. Mellefont. But in fact, Lady, you
only want tomorrow morning again? Marwood.

Maybe even more. (Beiseite.) It wants no one coming! Mellefont. Also
we do not want a long stay here anymore. Not true, dear Miss, it will
be good if we answer our ungesäumt follow? Sir William may not
übelnehmen our Eilfertigkeit. Seventh appearance Betty. Mellefont.
Sara. Marwood. Mellefont. What do you want, Betty? Betty. It requires
you to speak immediately. Marwood (aside). Ha! ways; the point now
it depends on - Mellefont. Me? immediately? I will come .-- Lady, you
go, cut your visit? Sara. Why, Mellefont? - Lady is so kind and up to
your Zurückkunft wait. Marwood. Excuse me, Miss, I know my
cousin Mellefont and I will prefer him wegbegeben.

Betty. The stranger, sir - he just wants you to speak a word. He
says that he had not a moment to be missed - Mellefont. Just
go, I will start with him - I suspect that abuse, that there is a
finite message from the comparisons will be against you which I
thought. (From Betty Go.) Marwood (aside). Good guess!
Mellefont. But, Lady - Marwood. If you order it - abuse, so I have
to you - Sara. No but, Mellefont: yes I think you will not begrudge
the pleasure, Lady Solms so long to be entertained?

Mellefont. You want it, Miss? - Sara. Keep up to, dearest Mellefont,
and you only come back soon. But with a joyful face, I wish! You suspect
without a doubt an unpleasant message. Do not challenge, and
I'm eager to see if you any good to me kind of an inheritance may
prefer, as I am eager to accommodate you in the same possession
to know .-- Mellefont .

I obey. (Warnend.) Lady, I'm certainly of the moment back here. (Geht
ab.) Marwood (aside).

Happy! Eighth appearance Sara. Marwood. Sara. My good
Mellefont says his civilities sometimes with a completely wrong tone.
Find it not, Lady? - Marwood. Without a doubt, I am of his kind all
too familiar already, as something that I could notice.

Sara. Lady does not want to set? Marwood. If you commanding, Miss -
(aside, they sit down.) I have this moment not stress over unused
leave. Sara. Tell me, lady, I will not be the happiest room with
my wife Mellefont be? Marwood. If Mellefont in his good fortune to
find white, so it is abuse to the Sara beneidenswürdigsten man person
make. But - Sara. But A and such a thoughtful pause, Lady - Marwood.
I am frank, Miss - Sara. And thus infinitely estimable - Marwood.
Frank - not infrequently to Unbedachtsamkeit. But my is the proof
of it. A very unbedächtiges But! Sara. I do not believe me, this lady
still restless Dodge want to do. There may be a cruel mercy of
an evil which we show could only suspect it. Marwood. Not
yet, Miss, you think of my But far too much. Mellefont is my kinsmen
- Sara. More important is the slightest objection, which you
oppose him have to do. Marwood. But if Mellefont my brother would
be so, I have to say that I am a person without fear of my sex would
be against him when I noticed that he was not righteous enough to
handle it. We woman cheap room should any insult to one of us
proved to be insulting to the whole sex and to make a general matter,
in which the sister and mother share the blame to take would not
mind. Sara. This note - Marwood. If already now and then, in
doubtful cases have been my guiding principle. Sara. And I promise
- I tremble - Marwood. No, miss; tremble when you want - let us talk
of something other things - Sara.

Cruel Lady! Marwood. I am sorry that I will be misunderstood. I at
least, if I thought of abuse in body Sampson set, would any further
message that I got from the person who wanted to give, which I mine
fates forever to connect would be prepared to see as a boon. Sara.
What do you want, lady? I know my Mellefont not know? Believe me, I
know him as my own soul. I know that he loves me - Marwood. And others
- Sara. Love. Even I know. Did he love me before he knew something of
me? Can I be the only one to ask for him has had attractions
enough? Must I do not even admit that I liked him, did endeavor? If
he is not lovable enough that he has several of these efforts need
to bring?

And is it not natural that some of this effort has succeeded? Marwood.
You defend him with heat and ebender almost ebenden reasons, which I
do quite often have verteidiget. It is not a crime, loved, much less
is it one that loved them. But the flightiness is a crime. Sara. Not
always, because often, I believe, is through the objects of love
entschuldiget, which is always to remain rarely deserve. Marwood.
Sampson abuse moral seems not to be the toughest. Sara. It is
true, and, after I directed care to those who are themselves confess
that they have gone on unsuccessful search paths, is not the
toughest. You must also not be. Ways; the point here because it
is not important to determine the barriers that gave us the virtue
of love is, but merely the fact of human weakness to apologize
when they are not barriers that remained, and the resulting consequences
according to the rules of wisdom to judge. If, for example a Mellefont
an Marwood loves and she finally leaves, then this removal, in
comparison with the love itself, something very good.

It would be a tragedy if he has a vicious because he once loved,
love would last forever. Marwood. But, Miss, you know because this
Marwood, what you like a load safely call? Sara. I know it from the
description of the Mellefont. Marwood. Des Mellefont? Is it because
you never have covered that in his own Mellefont nothing other than a
witness might be invalid? Sara .-- Now I notice it first, lady, that
I put to the test want. Mellefont will smile when you say it again,
how seriously I am his adopted. Marwood. Excuse me, miss; from this
interview must again learn Mellefont nothing.

You think too noble than that, thanks to a well-warning, a kindred
with him wanted to divide, which can only resist so it says, because
it's undignified proceedings against more than one of the lovable
people of our sex as committed as if they themselves had suffered.
Sara. I will not divide, Lady, and I wished that it just
wanted to andre. Marwood.

Should I tell you the story of the little words in Marwood tell?

Sara.

I do not know - But yes, lady, only with the conditions that you
stop when Mellefont zurückkömmt. He would like to think I would have
suited me for shoots erkundiget afterwards, and I would not like to
me that he had given him such confidence could be negative Neubegierde.
Marwood. I would abuse Sampson to same precautions have asked if I
would not pre-empted.

He must not suspect it may be that Marwood our conversation was, and
you will be so careful, your whole measures in the silence afterwards
to take .-- Listen now! - Marwood is a good genus. She was a young
widow when she Mellefont at one of their girlfriends met. It is said
that there was neither her beauty nor grace to those gemangelt, without
which the beauty would be dead. Your good name was without blemishes.

A single missing her: - Balance. Everything they owned had - and there
will be considerable riches have been - had it for the liberation
of a man aufgeopfert which nothing in the world believed to be
denied, after giving Once her heart and want to give her hand.
Sara. Truly a noble train, Lady, of which I wanted, that
he in a better paintings emblazoned! Marwood.

The lack of assets, notwithstanding it was sought by persons who
wished not eager, than to make them happy. In this rich and elegant
worshipers came to Mellefont. His application was seriously, and
the abundance in which he promised to put Marwood, was the least of
what he is based.

He had it at the first interview away, that he has no selfish to do,
but with a women's room, full of the gentlest feeling, which is
a cottage a palace would have preferred if they are those with a
loved and in that with an indifferent person would live. Sara. Another
train, which I do not begrudge the Marwood. Flatter you so no more,
lady, or I would regret it in the end must be. Marwood. Mellefont
was just in words, to the solemn nature to connect with her when
he news of the death of a cousin got him what all his property with
the condition left a weitläuftige Related to marry.

Marwood had seinetwegen richer connections ausgeschlagen, so now he
wanted her to give up nothing generosity. He was willing, her
inheritance from this nothing more to say than it is through them
that would have deprived .-- Not true, Miss, that was great thought?
Sara. O Lady, who knows it better than I do, that the noblest heart
Mellefont owns? Marwood. But what did Marwood? They learned it in
the hands, even at a late evening, which is determined Mellefont
ihrentwegen would. Mellefont came in the morning to visit it, and
Marwood was gone. Sara. Where? Why? Marwood. He found nothing but
a letter from her, which she discovered that he had no account should
make them ever again.

They did not deny that they love him, but just so they could not
overcome the cause of action to be necessary once he should repent.
They adopt him of his promise and ask him, among other concerns, the
execution of wills in which vorgeschriebnen connection in the
possession of assets to occur, a man of honor to do something Wichtigerm
could, as a women's room a reaction to ill-flattery make.
Sara. But, lady, why hire the Marwood so noble attitudes? Lady Solms
same may well be able, but not Marwood. Marwood Certainly not. Marwood.
It is not too surprising, Miss, that you are used against them .--
Mellefont wanted on the decision of the Marwood senses come. He sent
people from everywhere, to see them again, and finally he found it.
Sara. Because they wanted to find, without a doubt. Marwood. No
bitter Glosses, Miss! You geziemen a women's room of an otherwise
not so gentle way of thinking .-- He found them, I say, and found her
motionless. She wanted his hand does not accept, and everything he
could get it, this was that they promised to return to London.
They were one, their marriage until after the kindred, the long
weary of Verzögerns, a comparison was forced to propose.

Meanwhile Marwood was probably not the daily visits of the Mellefont
entbrechen made a long time nothing more than a lover reverently
visits were found in the boundaries of friendship has rejected. But
how impossible it is that a hot temper these narrow limits should
not exceed!

Mellefont has everything, this gives us a man dangerous person can do.
No one can be convinced of this than abuse itself Sampson Sara.
Oh!

Marwood. You sigh? Marwood also has its weakness more than once
geseufzet and seufzet yet. Sara. Enough, Lady, enough, that
phrase, I should think that was more bitter than a gloss, which
I would like to say popular. Marwood. Their intention was not to
offend, but merely the unfortunate Marwood you in a light to show where
you the right to judge her might.

Obj. 2: Further, Christ's Passion is called His uplifting, according
to John 3:14: "So must the Son of man be lifted up." And Christ is
Himself called the Sun of Justice, as we read Mal. 4:2. Therefore it
seems that He ought to have suffered at the sixth hour, when the sun
is at its highest point, and yet the contrary appears from Mk. 15:25:
"It was the third hour, and they crucified Him."

Obj. 3: Further, as the sun is at its highest point in each day at
the sixth hour, so also it reaches its highest point in every year at
the summer solstice. Therefore Christ ought to have suffered about
the time of the summer solstice rather than about the vernal equinox.

Obj. 4: Further, the world was enlightened by Christ's presence in
it, according to John 9:5: "As long as I am in the world I am the
light of the world." Consequently it was fitting for man's salvation
that Christ should have lived longer in the world, so that He should
have suffered, not in young, but in old, age.

_On the contrary,_ It is written (John 13:1): "Jesus, knowing that
His hour was come for Him to pass out of this world to the Father";
and (John 2:4): "My hour is not yet come." Upon which texts Augustine
observes: "When He had done as much as He deemed sufficient, then
came His hour, not of necessity, but of will, not of condition, but
of power." Therefore Christ died at an opportune time.

_I answer that,_ As was observed above (A. 1), Christ's Passion was
subject to His will. But His will was ruled by the Divine wisdom
which "ordereth all things" conveniently and "sweetly" (Wis. 8:1).
Consequently it must be said that Christ's Passion was enacted at an
opportune time. Hence it is written in De Qq. Vet. et Nov. Test., qu.
lv: "The Saviour did everything in its proper place and season."

Reply Obj. 1: Some hold that Christ did die on the fourteenth day of
the moon, when the Jews sacrificed the Pasch: hence it is stated
(John 18:28) that the Jews "went not into Pilate's hall" on the day
of the Passion, "that they might not be defiled, but that they might
eat the Pasch." Upon this Chrysostom observes (Hom. lxxxii in Joan.):
"The Jews celebrated the Pasch then; but He celebrated the Pasch on
the previous day, reserving His own slaying until the Friday, when
the old Pasch was kept." And this appears to tally with the statement
(John 13:1-5) that "before the festival day of the Pasch . . . when
supper was done" . . . Christ washed "the feet of the disciples."

But Matthew's account (26:17) seems opposed to this; that "on the
first day of the Azymes the disciples came to Jesus, saying: Where
wilt Thou that we prepare for Thee to eat the Pasch?" From which, as
Jerome says, "since the fourteenth day of the first month is called
the day of the Azymes, when the lamb was slain, and when it was full
moon," it is quite clear that Christ kept the supper on the
fourteenth and died on the fifteenth. And this comes out more clearly
from Mk. 14:12: "On the first day of the unleavened bread, when they
sacrificed the Pasch," etc.; and from Luke 22:7: "The day of the
unleavened bread came, on which it was necessary that the Pasch
should be killed."

Sara. No but, Mellefont I am therefore not at all been anxiously.
Could you not love me because if you like mysteries still have
before me? Mellefont. They believe so but that it was a secret? Sara.
But none that I am concerned. And this must be enough for me.
Mellefont. You are too complaisant. But please allow me that I have
this secret, however, discover. There were a few lines of kinsmen
who think local resident has experienced. She goes on her journey
to London from here, and I will speak. She has yet to honor
requests to share their respects failing to do so.

Sara. It will give me all the time, pleasant, Mellefont the worthy
people acquainted with your family. But think about it even if I
know, without blush, the same one under the eyes can see. Mellefont.
Without blush? And what? That you love me? It is true, Miss, you had
your love a Edlern, a rich gift can. You must be ashamed that your
heart just to have a heart and want to give you that at this
Tausche your luck so far out of sight set. Sara. You will even
know how wrong you explain my words. Mellefont. Allow you, Miss,
if I declare it wrong, they may even have no meaning. Sara. What is
your kindred?

Mellefont. It is - Lady Solms. They are the names I have heard. Sara.
I can not remember. Mellefont. May I ask that you accept their
visit? Sara. Ask Mellefont? You can tell me it was commanding.
Mellefont. What a word! - No, Miss, they should not have the luck
to see you. You will regret it, but they must be put up. Sara abuse
has its reasons, which I, even without them knowing, worship. Sara.
My God! how fast are you Mellefont! I will expect the lady and me
the honor of their visit as much as possible, worthy erzeigen search.
Are you satisfied? Mellefont. Ah, Miss, let me confess my ambition.
I would like the whole world with you brag. And if I am on the
possession of such a person would not be vain, I would reproach
myself that I value the same, could not appreciate. I go and
bring the lady to you immediately. (Go from.) Sara (alone). If it
is not only proud of the women is that, its full of virtue, of any
weaknesses to be raised to believe.

They make us with only one scornful glances the process, and an
ambiguous shrug is the whole pity that we deserve them appear. Waitwell
third appearance. Sara. Betty (the scene). Only come here if he
himself must speak with her. Sara (which umsieht). Who needs self-talk
to me - who I see? Is it possible? Waitwell thee? Waitwell.
What a lucky man I am, that I finally our abuse Sara again! Sara.
God! what do you? I hear it already, I hear it, you bring me the news
of the death of my father! He is out of the noble man, the best
father! He is out and I, I am the loin, which his death has
beschleuniget. Waitwell. Oh! Abuse - Sara. Tell me quickly tell me
that the last moments of his life to him through my memories were
not serious, that he had forgotten me, that he also quietly died when
he was otherwise in my arms dying promised, that he is not my once
in his last prayers reminded - Waitwell. Listen to it to deal with
misconceptions as to vex! He lives still, your father, he lives
still, the rechtschaffne Sir William. Sara. Lives he still? Is it
true he is still alive? Oh! that he has long to live and let
live happily! Oh! that God him half my years growth would! The
half - I am ungrateful, if I was not with all, so much to me which
are just a few moments to buying'm ready! But now tell me at least,
Waitwell that it is not hard, to live without me, that he could
easily become a subsidiary abandon their virtue can give up so
easily, that it erzürnet my flight, but has not hurt; that he
verwünschet me, but not regrets.

Waitwell. Ah, Sir William is still the gentle father, like his Sarche
still the gentle daughter is that they both have been. Sara. What
sayest thou?

You're a messenger of the tragedy, the terrible accident at all that
my imagination hostile vorgestellet ever has! He is still fond
of the father? So yes he loves me still? So he told me yes complain?
No, no, he does not, he can not do! Seest thou not how infinitely
every sigh, which he lost to me, my crime would increase? Should I
not the justice of the sky each of his tears, I was asking him
auspreßte so credited, as if I was in my truck all the same and my
ingratitude repeated? I thought about this reaction. Tears I cost
him? Tears? And there are other tears as tears of joy? - Say Opposition
me Waitwell! Placing the highest he has some slight emotions of
blood for me gefühlet; some of the emotions going überhin quickly,
which is the smallest effort of reason besänftiget.

To tears, he is not wrong. Not true, Waitwell to tears, he can not
come? Waitwell (by he wipes his eyes). No, Miss, he will not attack.
Sara. Oh! Your mouth says no, and your tears are saying yes. Waitwell.
Take this letter, Miss, he is of himself Sara. By whom? from my
father? Me? Waitwell. Yes, take him, you will be able to see more
than I can say. He could have another me as this business will
apply. I promised my joy like this, but you make me this joy in
affliction. Sara. Give only honest Waitwell! - But no, I will take
him not more than me to say about what is included. Waitwell.
What can it be contained? Love and forgiveness. Sara. Love? Forgiveness?
Waitwell.

And perhaps a sincere regret that he had the rights of the father's
violence against a child want to do, for which only the privileges
of his father's bounty are.

Sara. So just keep your cruel letter! Waitwell.

Cruel? They fear nothing, you get complete freedom over your heart
and your hand. Sara. And that is precisely what I fear. A father,
like him, to grieve: for that I have had the courage. Solo him
through this same affliction, he through his love, I entsagt, then
brought to see that he is anything like it, including me, an
unfortunate passion tempts: the, Waitwell, I would not stand.

If his letter contained everything that a father attached in such a
case and Violent Hard arguments, I would shudder with him to read, but
I would be able to read him. I would be against his anger still a
shadow of an important defense know to make it through this defense,
where possible, still angry about it.

I would then reassure them that in a violent rage no melancholy Gram
space could have and that those finally happy in a bitter contempt
will turn against me. Wen, however despised, to grieve you no
more. My father would be quiet again, and I expected I do not blame
him for ever unfortunate to have made. Waitwell. Oh!

Abuse, you will have this accusation makes even less, if you now take
back his love, who wants to forget everything. Sara. You wrong
yourself, Waitwell.

His burning desire for me seduces him, perhaps, to say yes to
everything. But no sooner would request a little beruhiget, so he
would be his weakness because of shame from themselves. A sinister
reluctance would be his bemeistern, and he would never be able to watch
me without me secretly adjudged, abzutrotzen him how much I have
myself together under.

Yes, if it is in my wealth would be him at the extreme violence that
he is doing for me, the bitterest to spare, when, in the moments,
because he wanted everything to me, I could sacrifice everything to
him: it would be quite a bit different . I wanted the letter with
pleasure from your hands, take the strength of paternal love and admire
it, without them to abuse me as an obedient daughter and reuende his
feet to throw. But can I do this? I would have to do what he allowed
me, without me to return to how expensive it is this permission to
come. And then when I am fun to be wanted, it would suddenly
come to me that he is my pleasure to share externally only, and seemed
in itself perhaps sigh, briefly, that he me with renunciation of
his own happiness happy have done - and it this type to be desired,
you trust me too, Waitwell?

Waitwell. Certainly, I do not know what I should answer this. Sara.
There is nothing to reply. Bring only your letter back. When my
father through me to be unhappy, I will even remain unhappy. All alone
without him to be unhappy, that is what I now run every hour from
the sky Please, be happy without him, but to be completely alone,
of which I want to know absolutely nothing.

Waitwell (a little aside). I truly believe, I will go behind good child
need to make it the letter but only lieset. Sara. What are you
speaking for yourself there? Waitwell. I tell myself that I
am a very clumsy invasion would have been you, Miss, to the reading
of the letter the speed property. Sara. Why? Waitwell. I could not
think as much.

You certainly superior to anything more precise than it is our one.
I wanted you do not frighten, the letter is perhaps too hard, and
when I said that nothing but love and forgiveness was included, so I
would say that I am nothing but that they contain to be desired.
Sara. Is this true? - Well, so give me him. I want to read it. If the
fury of a father, unfortunately, has earned, it must at least
against this paternal anger have so much respect that he favors for
all of us can be omitted.

Seek to frustrate him, it means insults with disdain accumulate. I will
miss him after all his strength of feeling. You see, I tremble already
- but I will also tremble, and I want to cry rather than tremble
.-- (It regurgitates the letter.) Now he is broken! I bebe - But
what I see? (You lieset.) "Only daughter" - Ha! You old deceiver,
the salutation is an angry father? Go, then I will not read -
Waitwell. Ah, Miss, but you forgive an old servant. Yes certainly, I
think it is in my life the first time that I cheated with premeditation.
Anyone who is cheating, abuse, and from a good intention to cheat,
which is why no old fraudster.

That is near me, miss. I know that good intentions do not always
apologizes, but what could I do? Such a good father his letter unread
wiederzubringen? I can never.

Rather I want to go as far as my old legs carry him and never again
come before the eyes. Sara. How? also you want to leave him? Waitwell.
Will I not have to if you do not read the letter? Read him always.
Have you always the first deliberate fraud, which I have to be
ashamed of, not without good effect. They are more likely to forget
me and I will forgive him the sooner you can. I'm a common, simple
man, your reasons why the letter can not read or want, of course
you must accept.

Whether they are true, I do not know, but so naturally that they seem
to me not least. Dächte I now so abuse: a father, I dächte, it is
always a father, and a child can probably even missing, but it remains
so a good child. When the father forgives the mistake, then yes the
child is to perform so well again, that he no longer can remember.
And who remembers because of something like what he wants rather,
it would not happen? It is abuse, just as if you always contact your
dächten errors and thought it would be enough if you have in your
imagination, and magnified himself with such enlarged ideas marterten.
But I would think you should also think about how you, what happened,
wiedergutmachten. And how do you redress it, even if you are
all able to behave? Is it because you are angry, the next step
to be done if such a dear father already has done the first? Sara.
What swords go from your lips simple in my heart! - That is, I can not
endure that
the first step he must do.

And what wilt thou? Do it because only the first step?

He must do it all: I can not entgegentun him.

As far as I removed myself from him so far he is to me lowering.
If he forgives me, so he must forgive all my crimes and are still
to put up with the consequences of that before his eyes continue to
see. Is this from a father to ask? Waitwell. I do not know, Miss,
if I really understand this. But I seemed that you want to tell
you he had to do too much forgiven, and because it is not unlike
to be very acidic, so you made a conscience, accept his forgiveness.

If you think so tell me, then, is not the forgiving heart of a good
pleasure? I am in my life not been so lucky that I often felt this
would be fun. But the few times that I've felt it, I remember still
happy. I felt something soft, something soothing, something Heavenly
while that I could not entbrechen to the large, unüberschwengliche
salvation of God to think of all the conservation of human misery
is an everlasting forgiveness.

I wish all the moments to be able to forgive, and I am ashamed that
I only had little to forgive. Legal painful insults, quite deadly
insults to forgive, says I to myself, there must be a pleasure, in
which the whole soul dissolves - And now, Miss, do you want to be
a great pleasure not treat your father? Sara. Oh! - Speech continues
Waitwell, talk on! Waitwell. I know there is a kind of people that
are not as reluctant to accept forgiveness, and because they could
not have learned to erzeigen.

They are proud, unbiegsam people who absolutely do not want to admit
that they done wrong.

But the nature, Miss, you are not. You have the Liebreich and
gentle heart, the best of your sex only may have. You confess your
mistakes, too. Why is it still so now? - But forgive me, Miss,
I am an old conversationalist and would like to note that your refuse
a notable concern, only a virtuous shyness was. People who like a
great boon to accept without reservations, are rarely worthy of the
boon. They earn the most, have always been the most censure against
itself But the suspicion must not be objective driven. Sara.
Dear old father, I think you've convinced me. Waitwell. Oh God!

if I'm been so happy, so I must have a good mind to talk to help. But
no, Miss, my speeches have done nothing, except that they allowed
you time, and themselves from such a joyous amazement to recover .--
Not true, now will you read the letter? Oh! read him the same! Sara.
I want to do it, Waitwell.
Now this would not be so if the Passion were not attributed to the
Godhead. Therefore Christ's Passion should be so attributed.

_On the contrary,_ Athanasius says (Ep. ad Epict.): "The Word is
impassible whose Nature is Divine." But what is impassible cannot
suffer. Consequently, Christ's Passion did not concern His Godhead.

_I answer that,_ As stated above (Q. 2, AA. 1, 2, 3, 6), the union of
the human nature with the Divine was effected in the Person, in the
hypostasis, in the suppositum, yet observing the distinction of
natures; so that it is the same Person and hypostasis of the Divine
and human natures, while each nature retains that which is proper to
it. And therefore, as stated above (Q. 16, A. 4), the Passion is to
be attributed to the suppositum of the Divine Nature, not because of
the Divine Nature, which is impassible, but by reason of the human
nature. Hence, in a Synodal Epistle of Cyril [*Act. Conc. Ephes., P.
i, cap. 26] we read: "If any man does not confess that the Word of
God suffered in the flesh and was crucified in the flesh, let him be
anathema." Primary school teacher Mr. Herman Heinecke p. Adr: Ww. Mrs.
Thielemann Hierselbst. Raboisen 27, III. XVII. The big race in the
summer, the entire Horn friendly sport in the world of Hamburg
excitement.

There were also special festival for all the streets through which
the partially shiny Korso journey to and from the racecourse took
their way.

Even in the Gärtnerstraße were all windows, balconies and verandas
with watchers busy. Also, the Wittfoth had chairs and stools
before their Ladenthür on the pavement made for himself and the two
girls. Hermann, otherwise in one of these days to come the habit,
was executed.

He had not long at all in the aunt can see, and Therese for their great
astonishment. Only Mimi knew why he did not. She felt no remorse
over their rejection of his advertising. She had, after completion
of their letter, which in their opinion elegant Redewendungen not have
been easy, with a sense of calm, when they had something right,
something big done. The next morning, she had only a sense of
curiosity: What will he say? What is he now thun? Pohlenz efforts
they found a fertile soil. Quick shot the new relationship under the
blessing of fertilizing the forty thousand marks in the straws, the
modest green of the old relationship with Hermann and überwuchernd
asphyxiant.

Mimi was the second race, the Sunday, an invitation accepted by
Pohlenz.

She had on the first day Hermann accompanied
some friends to see passing, but had Therese and their aunt is not
on him, which is as intentionally abwandte attention.

Whether it well on Sunday at the racecourse would take? You almost
wished it. It would be spicy.

In any case, it would at the side of her new admirer abdicated to
impress.

Pohlenz wanted a convertible and drive themselves.

Hermann would have can not afford, would have scarcely understood
to drive.

The whole day was nothing more in mind than this possible encounter
between her and Hermann.

As a theatrical scene painted it off.

She was never at the races and have been
burned before impatience.

Carefully observing the Insassinnen the vorüberrollenden and Equipage
Mietsfuhrwerke and thought in their place, elegantly careless back,
dressed in chic, all eyes turned to the sinking.

Pohlenz had it presented a new costume in which they no doubt would
have fallen.

She had recently raised after this "little attention" was adopted by
him. He had asked to dress as it was in Buxtehude, and was extremely
flattered Eitle promised. He had her in this very suit dropped. He had
something exotic in it. Rich Brazilians and Indian Nabobs,
heroes of their previously read novels, lived in her memory.

The deep Pohlenz brunette with a big Panama hat, white Röckchen a fine
Cigarette smoking, the original slim Traber Guidance, alongside
him in the new costume, repeatedly turned her thoughts back
to this picture. As Hermann went over in an ordinary cab ,
slightly crooked, vornübergeneigt, as always, if he is comfortable
He looked very pale, like nights. The three men beside him were far
from elegant appearances.

The one caught even their tasteless hilarity by a cherry-red tie.
As usual, the whole wagon looked. She would not include among these
elegant Equipage mix. Hermann had Mimi from afar on her stool to see,
in addition to its small aunt who had climbed a chair to better see
them. Just as he turned, so as not to meet her glance. Their
rejection had hurt him very done.

He really loved her and she could not forget. Even the uneducated
style of their letter, the little grammatical blunders, offended
him.

It was not unknown to him so that their education was not complete,
its character is not without weaknesses. But what woman does not have
its weaknesses. The woman requires something other than character
and grammar. A perfect woman would have him not irritated. He is so
beautiful dreams, Mimi gradually to educate, to ennoble the slumbering
good plants to awaken. The dream was made. Hermann avoided the aunt's
house since Mimis letter. He sought distraction and persuaded his
friends, collectively, the race to visit. He hoped there the lover
or the passing to be seen. He painted a meeting of: radiator, polite
greeting from his side, with a faint hint of pain. Color of the
resignation. Male taken. You blushing, then deceased, with the famous
saucy throw her pretty head the matter quickly and contemptuous abthuend.

It was also a subject of wonder in Christ's death that He
died sooner than the others who were tormented with the same
suffering. Hence John says (19:32) that "they broke the legs of the
first, and of the other that was crucified with Him," that they might
die more speedily; "but after they were come to Jesus, when they saw
that He was already dead, they did not break His legs." Mark also
states (15:44) that "Pilate wondered that He should be already dead."
For as of His own will His bodily nature kept its vigor to the end,
so likewise, when He willed, He suddenly succumbed to the injury
inflicted.

From the modern marriage is seen lost all reason: the giebt but no
objection to the marriage, but against modernity. The rationality
of marriage - she was the sole legal responsibility of the man: so
had the marriage
heavyweight, while today it limps on both legs.

The rationality of marriage - she was its insolubility principiellen:
so that they got Accent, which, with the chance of feeling, passion
and time to make itself heard to create knew.

Insgleichen It was the responsibility of families for the selection
of the husband.

It has been the growing Indulgenz in favor of love Heirath the very
basis of marriage, that what first made her an institution makes,
effects eliminated. You never founded an institution and never to
idiosyncrasy, it establishes the marriage is not, as I said, to
"love" - one based on the sex drive, the Eigenthumstrieb (woman and
child as property), to the domination shoot that is consistently
the smallest structure of domination, the family, organisirt,
children and heirs need to reached Maass of power, influence,
Reichthum also noted physiologically to long tasks instinct for
solidarity between centuries prepare.

Marriage as an institution already understands the affirmation of the
biggest, the most enduring form of organization in itself: even
if society as a whole, not for themselves gutsagen may be up in
the furthest beyond gender, the marriage makes no sense. - The
modern marriage lost its meaning - consequently one creates it. -
40 The Workers' question. - The stupidity, in fact, the
instinct-degeneracy, which is today the cause of all stupidities
is, is that there is a worker issue giebt.

About some things you do not ask: first imperative of instinct. - I
do not quite see what to do with the European workers' wishes, after
only a question of him did. He is much too good to not step
more to ask unbescheidner to ask. He has most recently the large
number of its own.

The hope is completely gone, that there is a modest and self-sufficient
kind of man, a type of Chinese ethics to emerge: and this would
have had reason, this would be an almost necessarily have been.

What you have done? - Everything to keep even the requirement to
destroy the germs, - one has the instincts, by which a worker
as a possible stand herself to be possible, through the irresponsible
thoughtlessness in land destroyed. It has made the workers
militärtüchtig, you've got him the Coalition's law, where the
political right to vote: what wonder if the worker's existence today
as Nothstand (expressed as morally wrong -) feels? But what you
want? asked again. Will you have a purpose, one must also want the
means: will you slave, you are a fool if one educates them to Lord.
- 41 "Freedom, which I do not mean ..." In such times, as now, his
instincts be his, is a Verhängniss more. These instincts contradict,
interfere with, destroy themselves, I definirte the modern as
physiological self-contradiction. The reason of Education would want
at least an iron Prints One of these instincts would paralysirt systems
to prevent other to allow for forces to come strong to be under
control. Today, one individual only possible by using the same
cuts: possible, that is quite ...

The reverse happens: the claim to independence, to free development,
Laissez all of which is being made on hotly for whom no reins would
be too severe - this applies in politicis, this applies in the art.
But that is a symptom of Decadence: our modern notion of "freedom"
is a proof of degeneracy more instinctive. - 42 Where does faith
north. - Nothing is seltner among moralists and saints than
righteousness, perhaps they say the opposite Theil, maybe
they believe it themselves, if a belief is useful, effective,
convincing, as the conscious hypocrisy, then, from instinct, as
soon as possible to the hypocrisy of innocence : First record for
understanding great saint. Even with the philosophers, a sort of other
saints, it brings the whole craft with them, that they only allow
certain truths: namely, those to which their craft is public sanction
- Kantian talk truths of practical reason.
Hence He said (Matt.
26:42): "If this chalice may not pass away, but I must drink it, Thy
will be done."

Reply Obj. 3: For the same reason Christ suffered out of charity and
out of obedience; because He fulfilled even the precepts of charity
out of obedience only; and was obedient, out of love, to the Father's
command.
_______________________

THIRD ARTICLE [III, Q. 47, Art. 3]

Whether God the Father Delivered Up Christ to the Passion?

"And Elise - how is it with this poor child?" I asked the relationship
of the thing, and the cheerfulness of the murderer and the man police
still do not understand. "It is murder on my desk, 'said the laughing,
and will tomorrow through the printer to enter into eternal life." -
" What I need is still there purpose? Gentlemen and ladies!

I was the fool in the game, and that woman was the most glorious
known, interesting Th. v. H. The story, Pauline Dupuis' is still to
read, whether the brilliant woman Elise, on the morning of that day
after the coffee was completed, edited, I do not know.

I had to escape from pp, so as not to ridicule the city to be.
But before the police sent me a great director even diet bill's failure
  over time because I am by those funny story the murder thirsty
from his usual evening visit to a club was held. "- The Eternal Jew
had a binding expression to the wife of Wollau ended. Allgemeiner
Applause was given to him, and a gracious smile of the housewife told
him how happy he had justified. And as the dark eyes of this
lady before the men from his unfortunate proximity were removed, as
they are quickly approaching him again, as it the grace of the sun
again beschien.

It took him more often in conversation, they asked him about his
travels, especially on those in southern Germany.

Indeed, as Scotland and London for its residents and old-England
at all, it is Schwabenland for Berlin, which never in the hills of
the Neckar vines and the cheerful green shores of the upper Danube
is one of those loving, wonderful songs from the lips of a "luschtiga
Büebles" or a sprightly, hochaufgeschürzten "girls" sniffing, an
object of high curiosity. What a strange opinions about the country,
even in educated circles as This elegant tea, were in
circulation, I heard this evening to my great astonishment. In a
magical garden of rolling hills, clear blue streams of flowering,
fruit-scented forests, vineyards prangenden from passing through,
live, they argued, one of people that still pretty much at the first
stage of the culture is; immense scholars that can not be understood
to express, imaginative writers who do not speak good German word.
The girls have no education, their wives no decency. Your men
are before the fortieth birthday wise and throughout the country
are every day many thousands follies of those who are generally
under the name "Schwabenland pranks" were known.

I got this ridiculous verdict before I was many a year in Swabia
and had me at the good Leutchen very well found; I would not have
to fear, from the role of a pupil to fall, I would have immediately
responded, as I knew it, but it saved me the trouble of my mentor, who
unfortunate enough the good opinion which he had won a few moments,
only too fast to lose again. "Whether the Berliners," he said,
"more inner education, more elegant than the outer forms of the
Swabians, whether here in Brandenburgischen equipped with more
subtlety to the earth, or rather on the sand than in Swabia, I dare
not to investigate, but so far I have seen with my own eyes that
there were on average below the girls a far greater amount of
pretty, even beautiful faces there than even in Saxony, but because
of what this article is famous. " "_Quelle sottise!

_" I heard Mrs. von Wollau snort, "which abgeschmackte assertion that
nasty man -" I waved Umsonst the Eternal through the eyes, in vain
the poet gave him a friendly Rippenstoß, to remind him that he was
under ladies find that also made claim to beauty, quiet, as if he angry
Fine said the greatest compliment would be, he continued: "You can
not believe how irritating this verschrieene dialect of beautiful
lips sounds like everything is so naive, so sounds sweet, how cute
are these endless blooming Chen face when they said that they were
beautiful, that they love, how mischievous they open the eyes down,
as they are innocent blush, what magic lies in its defiance, if it
is bashfully away and whisper: "Oh ganget Se mer away, because
moinet Se, i glaub's?"

Here in northern Germany, there is usually only Teegesichter, a
consolation to find, ethereal aesthetic or really, they only
have the breath long-lasting, if it ever worth holding on to like
blush. "O Jew, what did you buck shot! No sooner did you blitz zorn
eye reconciles a lady, then you celebrate the big mistake to twelve
beautiful ladies facial Chen two countries to praise and not
just not mention it, but even their ethereal complexion, its
interesting Mondscheinblässe be supplied for Teegesichter!

The young ladies were astonished when they trust their ears, the
older of these terrible threw glances at the evil-doers and the
other gentlemen, who, equally surprised, yet no words to find a
replica.

The cups, the golden spoon klirrten loud with anger in the trembling
hands of mothers who have been ten years with much effort it had
put so that their daughters classy and sophisticated look like -
what today, except the feeling of dignity, something end suffering
, almost sickly one - which always swelling fullness of their
daughters, the recurrent redness of the cheeks but finally had to
defeat known.

And now, this strange, exciting, nasty man she and her joy, her art
zuschanden do? He should dare to the ladies of this German Paris
with those cumbersome residents of uncultured Schwabenland only in
parallel to bring them the first rank to fail? And so they should
tolerate? _Jamais! _ Madam took the floor with a view of the cold
face of the silent anger like a sham on North Schneegefilde herabglänzte:
"I must only sincerely regret Mr.

Doctor Muck, that the beautiful Schwabenland and its naive Bauerndirnen
so faithless have left, and I ask you, dear, "she continued, turning
towards the poet, who had turned," I ask you, you look as this gentleman
is no longer on my Circle to visit.

Jotter but he could among our ladies and their sturdy natures
Naivetät miss those whom he could so totally own them. "triumphantly
directed to the bent, the mothers donated glances of gratitude, the
lady behind giggled carried Sachtüchern, the young men had also
found the language and did laugh at my poor Hofmeister. But the
subtle rhythm of my lady had this outbreak of the National revenge
only room for so long until they are sufficiently punished the doctor
thought. This man was insulted in her salon never be the same if he
by his reckless speech deserved their displeasure, they bent so quickly
with the agility, the women feingebildeten so peculiar is that all
other comments, by putting his nephew to take his promise and to
the Company to disclose long-promised novel.

This young man has had throughout the evening my attention busy. He
differed from the other young men who empty the day it chatted
very beneficial by Ernst and dignified attitude, expressed by
elected and short, correct verdict.

He was tall and slim built, male beautiful, just maybe for some a bit
too skinny. His eye was bright and had expressed those silent observation
of a human expert or at least a man tells the life and bustle
of the big and small world in many ways seen and thought about.
He had, as far as I am very favorably voted for him, in the eternal
conversation of the Jews and in his satire with no word, I would
say, with no Miene participated. For the first time at this
all evening drew him to question his aunt a smile to his face,
especially the mouth, yet much more comfortable making them, in
this man I would have me, if I present one of the lady would have
been, must necessarily fall in love; But admittedly, these young
ladies have very different views than the devil, and the simple
black garb of the young man was of course the shiny Guard uniforms
and their bold, the swirling forms pointing cut not outweigh. * *
* * * CHAPTER VIERZEHNTES.

THE CURSE. (A novel.) "I have been in vain abgemüht, gracious aunt,"
said the young man with full, Fine voice, "a novella-like or a
light, happy story for this evening to find. But in order not to
appear wortbrüchig, I must have some remedy the error search.

If you allow, I want something from my own life to tell which,
if it is not quite the romantic charm and attractive course of a
novella, but always the value of truth for him. "The aunt said to him
kindly that the simple truth is often more irritable, when the
voltage of a fictional novel, so she confessed to him that they
expect something very interesting, because he can see since the
Zurückkunft of his mysterious trips out so that one of its Begebnisse
should be quite excited.

The older ladies lorgnettierten him closely and gave this remark
completely applause, but the young man began to tell: "When I was
five years ago in this hall by a large company having the kindness
of my aunt again by the outgoing had gathered, Farewell took me
some warned ladies - if I am not mistaken, was the wife of Wollau
with them - before the Romans beautiful interior, before its fiery,
heart inflammation of the eyes. I was grateful to her warning, and
even stronger push me but I promised Holden from those blue eyes,
those kind of patriotic face Chen, of all the lovely pictures that
I, in fine and loyal hearts stored with took over the Alps. And she
protected me, these images against those dark eyes of the Romans
fire inside, but as gentle, blue
eyes, what I saw there, is irresponsible retreated, as my poor
heart unbewahrtes left without coverage, I will tell a bitter
indictment .

The s ---- sche papal legate at the court had me on a map of the
Holy Week of the Lamentation in the Sistine Chapel clever, more to
the old gentleman that I already had been some complacency, not to
insult, when out of curiosity , I decided to go.

I was not in the best mood, as it was evening, instead of a funny
lot, including me, German painter loaded, should I make a plea
mitanhören song that I have in themselves highly ridiculous happens.

Never had I from the sanctity of such Ritualien can convince even the
venerable Cathedral, where the high vaults and arches, the darkness
of the broken light, the powerful, full tones of the organ some
other serious voting like I could just about the power of deception
amazed. My mood was not holy, as I at the portal of the Sistine Chapel
came from. The papal guard - old, disused, schneider-term figures
were guards here with so masterly grandezza than the Cherubim at the
Himmelstür. The splendor of the candle blinded me as I entered, and
stung from wonderfully against the dark choir, where the darkness
seemed to back.

Only the high altar was there from thirteen high candles lit. I had
leisure enough, the faces of the society around me to look. I
noticed very few Romans, on the other hand, almost everything that
Rome at strangers housed.

Some French Marquis, notorious players, some young Englishman of my
acquaintance were very near me. They took me to that I had
seduced, the spectacle, as they called, to attend; Lord Parter but
said that it was probably of Fine happen to favor, which I had
brought. He indicated on a young lady who stood beside me. He asked
for their names and their street and seemed very incredulous when I
serve him so not to be claimed. I looked at my neighbor closer,
it was a lean, high figure, which apparently no Römerin; a black
veil covering the face and almost the whole shape and had only a
part of the neck, so pure and white, I like it rare in Italy, almost
never seen in Rome.

Already I praised my courtesy in the heart of the old diplomats, hoping
to be an interesting acquaintance make; just wanted to - because the
action started singing, my beautiful and seemed so eager to hear
that I no longer dared, they anzureden. Displeasure I leaned on a
pillar back, God and the world, the Pope and his Lamentation execrate.
Intolerable to me was the monotonous voice.

Think you, sixty of the deepest voices that _unisono_, in the
deepest root of human breast, murmuring Bußpsalmen. The first psalm
was ended, a candle on the altar went out. Consolation, the farce
will end, I wanted just to address the young lord, as the singing
of new anhub. That taught me to my great shame that even all twelve
remaining candles should die before I could think at the end. The
church was closed and guarded, to an Escape was impossible. I
recommended all my Gods and thought of good sleep to be done. But
how was it possible? As rays of a noonday sun poured its deep sounds
to me. Two or three candles went out, my anxiety was growing. Finally,
when the tones are still fortwogten, they pushed me down to the
innermost Mark. The ore melted my chest before blasting the dense,
melancholy seized me, thoughts from the days of my youth were like
shadows in my soul, involuntary emotion took hold of me, and tears
entstürzten for years for the first time my eyes. Embarrassed, I
looked around, whether my tears, but none seen. But the player, a
wonderful sight, contrite were on their knees, the Lord and his
friends wept bitterly. Twelve candles were extinguished. Once collected,
the deep tones herzdurchbohrenden, complaining moved through the
hall, always dull, always quiet verschwebend.

As the last candle went out and at the same time so that the fire
sea of church and anxious shadows, deep darkness came from the
choir and camped on the Common. I felt as if I am from the Community
of the Blessed hinausgestoßen into a terrible night. Because of
the choir sounded from the rear rooms sweet, plaintive voices. What
that deep, look left court Unisono unerweicht, melted in front of
this high Dolce melancholy. Around me, the sobs of crying, from
choirs across tones, as directed by angels sung, I felt no different
than in a world with zernichteten to set and to hear the belief
in immortality would have been folly.

The song was verklungen, torches illuminated the scene, the
quantity spilled through the doors, and I imagined myself to prepare
to leave, since I first saw that my neighbor is still nice on the
knees niedergesunken was. I took me a heart. Signora, 'said I,
"the gates are closed, we are the last in the chapel." No
answer. I grabbed their rights, on the side niederhing, it was cold
and without life. It was faint. I was in strange situation. The night
was already far advanced, with only a few Flambeaus went through
the church, I had all the moments of fear, to be forgotten. I
bethought me not long, called one of the torch bearers came to his
help with the lady up. How was I when I was aufschlug veil!
The dark glow of the torch fell on halbverlöschten a face, as I
sometimes point to the beautiful boxes of Raphael never seen! Glossy
brown curls had broken down and fell into the veiled breasts
and moved the lovely oval of her view on which a transparent
pallor had stored. The beautiful arches of the brows promised a serious,
perhaps a little mischievous eyes and the mouth halbgeöffneten,
umkleidet with the whitest pearls, was Gram, pain could have pulled
it.

When we wanted to straighten it, they beat the beautiful blue eyes,
whose owners, business schools shine me so surprised that I have
some time I had to collect necessary.
Objection 1: It would seem that Christ's Passion did not bring about
our salvation by way of merit. For the sources of our sufferings are
not within us. But no one merits or is praised except for that whose
principle lies within him. Therefore Christ's Passion wrought nothing
by way of merit.

Obj. 2: Further, from the beginning of His conception Christ merited
for Himself and for us, as stated above (Q. 9, A. 4; Q. 34, A. 3).
But it is superfluous to merit over again what has been merited
before. Therefore by His Passion Christ did not merit our salvation.

Obj. 3: Further, the source of merit is charity. But Christ's charity
was not made greater by the Passion than it was before. Therefore He
did not merit our salvation by suffering more than He had already.

_On the contrary,_ on the words of Phil. 2:9, "Therefore God exalted
Him," etc., Augustine says (Tract. civ in Joan.): "The lowliness" of
the Passion "merited glory; glory was the reward of lowliness." But
He was glorified, not merely in Himself, but likewise in His faithful
ones, as He says Himself (John 17:10). Therefore it appears that He
merited the salvation of the faithful.

_I answer that,_ As stated above (Q. 7, AA. 1, 9; Q. 8, AA. 1, 5),
grace was bestowed upon Christ, not only as an individual, but
inasmuch as He is the Head of the Church, so that it might overflow
into His members; and therefore Christ's works are referred to
Himself and to His members in the same way as the works of any other
man in a state of grace are referred to himself. But it is evident
that whosoever suffers for justice's sake, provided that he be in a
state of grace, merits his salvation thereby, according to Matt.
5:10: "Blessed are they that suffer persecution for justice's sake."
Consequently Christ by His Passion merited salvation, not only for
Himself, but likewise for all His members.

Reply Obj. 1: Suffering, as such, is caused by an outward principle:
but inasmuch as one bears it willingly, it has an inward principle.

Reply Obj. 2: From the beginning of His conception Christ merited our
eternal salvation; but on our side there were some obstacles, whereby
we were hindered from securing the effect of His preceding merits:
consequently, in order to remove such hindrances, "it was necessary
for Christ to suffer," as stated above (Q. 46, A. 3).

Reply Obj. 3: Christ's Passion has a special effect, which His
preceding merits did not possess, not on account of greater charity,
but because of the nature of the work, which was suitable for such an
effect, as is clear from the arguments brought forward above all the
fittingness of Christ's Passion (Q. 46, AA, 3, 4).
_______________________

SECOND ARTICLE [III, Q. 48, Art. 2]

Whether Christ's Passion Brought About Our Salvation by Way of
Atonement?

- You are lost, dear miss! I too am lost! - That the world would be
lost with us! - Sixth appearance Sara, Norton. Betty. Sara. He
is gone - I'm lost? What does he mean by that? Do you understand
it, Norton? - I am sick, very sick, but do the utmost that I must die:
I am about lost? And what does he do with thee, poor Betty? - Du rings
hands? Grieve not, thou hast certainly not beleidiget him, he
will once again reflect .-- Had he followed me and not read the
labels!

He could probably think that he the last of the poison must contain
Marwood .-- Betty. What terrible assumption! - No, it can not be, I
do not think so .-- Norton (which is after the scene has gone). The
old Serves your father, Miss - Sara. Let him come in, Norton! Seventh
appearance Waitwell. Sara. Betty. Norton.

Sara. It is my answer after you ask, good Waitwell. It is finished,
except for some lines .-- But why so shocked? They have certainly
said it to you that I am ill. Waitwell. And more! Sara. Dangerously
ill? - I agree with it more out of fear of impetuous Mellefont
than that I feel it .-- If you are familiar with the unfinished
letters of the unfortunate Sara to leave the unfortunate father
would have Waitwell - Let us hope the best!

Will you probably wait until tomorrow? Maybe I find some good moments,
you cleared. Itzo, I would not be able to. This depends on how dead
hand on the side stunned .-- If the whole body as easily as these
limbs dahinstirbt - You're an old man, Waitwell, and you can from
your past performances are not much more to be removed - Believe
me, if the what I feel, approximations of death - so are the
approximations of death is not so bitter .-- Ah!

- Do not bend on this Ah! Without any unpleasant sensation it
can not come off. Insensitive man could not be unfortunate, he must
not be - But, Betty, why do you still not on, so you untröstlich
to indicate? Betty. Allow me, Miss, let me that I am out of your
eyes may remove. Sara. Just go, I know well, it is not every
thing in order to be dying. Waitwell will remain with me. You too,
Norton, will prove me a favor, when you reach for your Lord umsiehst.
I long for his presence. Betty (in Abgehn). Oh! Norton, I took the
Arzenei from the hands of the Marwood - Eighth appearance Waitwell.
Sara. Sara. Waitwell if you love me erzeigen and want to stay
with me, let me not so melancholy face. You silent? - Say it! And
if I may ask, speak to my father. Try me everything you before I said
a few hours comforting. Repeat me that my father reconciles and
has forgiven me.

Repeat it to me, and add that to the eternal heavenly father could
not be cruel .-- Not true, I can die here? When I arrived in front
of your circumstances, this would have, what would it looked like
to me! I would be desperate, Waitwell. By Hasse those loaded from
the world to go against his nature to act when he should hate
us - What an idea! Tell him that I am in the liveliest feelings
of remorse, gratitude and love had died. Tell him - Ah!

that I did not even say how full my heart by his good deeds is! Life
was the least of it. How much I wished the rest languishing at his
feet to be able to give up! Waitwell. Would you really, Miss, to see
him? Sara. Finally you talk to about my deeply cherished desire,
to my last request to doubt.

Waitwell. Where do I find the words, I was looking for so long? A
sudden joy is so dangerous as a sudden fright. I am only afraid
before too violent impressions by his unexpected appearance at such
a tender spirit wants. Sara.
What do you mean?

Whose unexpected sight - Waitwell.

The desired, Miss! - Hold it! Ninth appearance Sir William Sampson.

Sara, Waitwell. Sir William. You will keep me far too long, Waitwell.
I must see them. Sara. Whose voice - Sir William. Oh, my daughter!
Sara. Oh, my father! - Help me to Waitwell, help me on that I am
at his feet can throw. (She wants to stand up and falls from weakness
in the chair back.) He it is? Or is it a refreshing appearance, sent
from heaven, like that angel, to strengthen the strong came? - Bless
me, who you also seist, a messenger of the Most High, in the form
of my father or even my father!

Sir William. God bless you, my daughter! - Stay calm. (By they
will try again, fall down before him.) On another, with several
staff, I do not dislike my trembling knees comprise see. Sara. Now,
my father, or never. Soon I will no longer be! Too happy if I win a
few moments to give you the feelings of my heart to discover.

Not moments, long days, a life would erfodert again, to say everything,
which is a fault, a reuende, a daughter punished an insult, a generous,
a loving father can say. My mistake, your pardon - Sir William.
Make yourself a weakness and not reproach me from a duty not earned.

If you forgive me of my remember, so you remember me because I have so
gezaudert. Why I forgave thee not? Why I put you in the need
for me to flee?

And today, as I forgive you already had, which forced me, only an answer
from you to expect? Itzt could I take you already have a daily enjoyed,
though I once would zugeeilet your hugs. A secret reluctance had hidden
in the folds of the heart betrognen be retarded, I predict that
your continued love certainly wanted to be, before I give you mine
wiederschenkte. If a father so selfish act? Should we just love
that we love? Tadler me, dear Sara, blame me, I sahe more to
my joy to you than to yourself - What if I lose this joy? - But who
says it because that I will lose it? You'll live, you will still
live long! Entschlage you all the black thoughts. Mellefont makes
the danger greater than it is. He brought the whole house in commotion
and went himself, to see doctors, which he in this wretched stains
may not be found. I sahe his stormy fear, his hopeless affliction
without it to be seen. Now I know it, that he honestly love you
now I give thee to him. Here I will expect your hand and into his
hand basket. What else I would have done just pushed, I do
like to, because I see how much you're him .-- Is it true that it
Marwood itself is giving you this terror has caused? So far, I have
made the claims Betty you can understand more and not .-- But what I
am researching for the causes of your indisposition, since I only
the means to remedy it, should be considered.

I see, you will be moments of weaker moment, I see it and are
still helpless. What should I do Waitwell? Where should I run? What
should I apply it? my assets? my life? Say it! Sara. Best's father,
all assistance would be in vain. Even the vain unschätzbarste would
you want to do with your life I wanted to purchase. Mellefont
Tenth appearance. Sara. Sir William. Waitwell. Mellefont. I wag
'es, the walk back into this room to set? Lives she yet? Sara.
Come closer, Mellefont. Mellefont. I should be 'your face again?
No, miss; I come without consolation, without assistance. The
desperation alone brings me back - But what I see? You, Sir? Unfortunately
Father! You are a terrible scene to come. Why did not you rather? You
come too late to save your daughter! But - only safely - is gerächet
to see, this should not be too late. Sir William. Remember Mellefont,
in this moment does not mean that we have been enemies! We are no more
and never want it again. Get me a daughter, and you should get
yourself a wife have. Mellefont. Take me to God, and then repeat your
call .-- I listened to you, Miss, too much misery apply, as that I
should bear in mind, you also notice the last: they must die.

And you know, by whose hand you die? Sara. I do not want to know,
and it gives me too much, that I suspect it can. Mellefont. You
must know it, because who could stand me that you are not wrong
suspects? This write Marwood. (He lieset.) "When you read these
labels are Mellefont, your infidelity in the same cause already be
punished. I had discovered her, and she was in terror fainted. Betty
was all effort, they return to himself to bring. I became aware
that they Kordialpulver put aside, and had the happy idea, with a
poison powder to confuse.

I put myself emotionally ready for service and made it even cope. I
saw it and went triumphantly continued . revenge and anger, I was
made into a murderer, and I want to but none of the nasty
Mörderinnen who are indeed their dare
not boast.

I'm on the way to Dover, you can follow me and my own hand against
me, can testify .

Unverfolgt I come into the harbor, I will leave behind Arabelle
unhurt.

Until then, however, I will consider as a hostage. Marwood. '- Now
you know all that abuse. Here, Sir, keep this paper. You need to
consider punishment for the murderer, and this is indispensable to
you .-- How he solidifies off! Sara. Give me this paper, Mellefont.
I want to convince my eyes. (He gives it her and she looks at it
a moment.) Will I have so much power to have?

(ripping it.) Mellefont. What are you doing, Miss! Sara. Marwood will
not escape their fates, but neither you nor my father should be her
accusers. I'm dying and give it the hand through which God haunts me
.-- Oh, my father, who has sinister pain your bemächtiget? - Still
I love you, Mellefont, and if you love a crime is, how guilty
I will be in that world appear! - If I should hope, dearest father,
that you have a son instead of a daughter wanted to adopt! And
a daughter is with you do not miss him if you want to recognize
that Arabelle.

They must get it back, Mellefont, and the mother might escape .-- Since
my father loves me, why should I not be allowed, with his love than
with a inheritances deal? I bequeath this paternal love you and
Arabelle. and then you talk with her when a friend of mine, whose
examples they all love her hat to learn .-- The final blessing, my
father - who wanted the coincidence of the Supreme dare to judge?

- Comforter thy Lord Waitwell. But even if you are standing in
a desolate grief buried, you lover in me neither daughter nor
losing? - Sir William. We should be courageous opponent thee, and thy
dying eye speaks to us A. No longer my earthly daughter, already
half an angel, what can the blessing of a father to a wimmernden spirit
on which all the blessings of the sky falling? Leave me a ray of
light, asks you about everything so far rises Human. Or please God,
the God who is not so certainly than a pious pleas heard dying,
ask him that this is the last day of my life.

Sara. The good God must be virtue in the world long for examples, and
only the weak virtue, the too many tests, perhaps would be subject,
he suddenly lifts from the dangerous obstacles - Who are these tears,
my father? fiery fall as drops on my heart, and yet - but they are
less terrible to me than the mute despair. snatch It is her Mellefont!
- My Eye breaks - This was the last sigh! - Still, I think Betty
and I understand it now anxious hand wringing. The poor girl! That
ye so no one accused of carelessness caused by her heart without wrong
and therefore, even without suspicion of falsehood is entschuldiget
.-- The moment has arrived!

Mellefont - my father - Mellefont. She died! - Oh, this cold hand
to kiss again. (As he falls at her feet. ) - No, I will not dare
to touch them. The common myth frightens me that the body of a slain
by the touch of his murderer start to bleed. And who is her murderer?
Am I not more than Marwood? ( Stand up.) - Now it is dead, Sir, now
hear us no more: now you curse me Leave your pain in curses
earned from, it must not miss my main, and the same dreadful must be
met duplicated! - What you are silent? She's dead,
it is certainly dead! Now I am again nothing but Mellefont. I am no
longer the mistress of a tender girl, you are in it to spare cause
'would .-- What is it?

I do not want that you have a merciful glance on me to throw, this is
your daughter, I am her seducer! Are you, sir! - How should I irritate
your anger better? This blooming beauty, over which you alone have a
right had was against your will my prey! forgot that I am unerfahrne
virtue! I am concerned they are snatched from the arms of a beloved
father! I am concerned they had to die - you make me impatient with
your patience, Sir, let me hear it, that you are the father. Sir
William. I am a father, Mellefont, and I'm there too much, that I
as the last wishes of my daughter should not worship .-- Let yourself
embrace, my son, which I bought was not expensive!

Mellefont. Not so, Sir! This Holy commanded more than human nature
can, you can not be my father .-- You see, Sir (by moving the dagger
in the bosom draws), this is the dagger, the Marwood on me today
winced. To my misfortunes, I had to disarm them. If I am guilty
as the victims of their jealousy would have liked, so Sara still
lived. you still have your daughter and they would have without
Mellefont. It does not stand with me, what happened ungeschehen to
do, but me because of what happened to punish - that's me! (He stabs
himself and falls to the chairs of Sara down.)
Reply Obj. 1: A gloss explains the text thus: "Thou, O Lord God of
Truth, hast redeemed me in Christ, crying out, 'Lord, into Thy hands
I commend my spirit.'" And so redemption belongs immediately to the
Man-Christ, but principally to God.

Reply Obj. 2: The Man-Christ paid the price of our redemption
immediately, but at the command of the Father as the original author.

Reply Obj. 3: The sufferings of the saints are beneficial to the
Church, as by way, not of redemption, but of example and exhortation,
according to 2 Cor. 1:6: "Whether we be in tribulation, it is for
your exhortation and salvation."
_______________________

SIXTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 48, Art. 6]

Whether Christ's Passion Brought About Our Salvation Efficiently?

Objection 1: It would seem that Christ's Passion did not bring about
our salvation efficiently. For the efficient cause of our salvation
is the greatness of the Divine power, according to Isa. 59:1: "Behold
the hand of the Lord is not shortened that it cannot save." But
"Christ was crucified through weakness," as it is written (2 Cor.
13:4). Therefore, Christ's Passion did not bring about our salvation
efficiently.

Obj. 2: Further, no corporeal agency acts efficiently except by
contact: hence even Christ cleansed the leper by touching him "in
order to show that His flesh had saving power," as Chrysostom
[*Theophylact, Enarr. in Luc.] says. But Christ's Passion could not
touch all mankind. Therefore it could not efficiently bring about the
salvation of all men.

Obj. 3: Further, it does not seem to be consistent for the same agent
to operate by way of merit and by way of efficiency, since he who
merits awaits the result from someone else. But it was by way of
merit that Christ's Passion accomplished our salvation. Therefore it
was not by way of efficiency.

_On the contrary,_ It is written (1 Cor. 1:18) that "the word of the
cross to them that are saved . . . is the power of God." But God's
power brings about our salvation efficiently. To enter France was
not quite walking on the French territory: it needed to be stamped,
recorded and Fili, boiling kettles or pass under caudines of customs
and police.

La France, as a nation, not a _pueblo_ is a duty and a guard post.
By taking the first step, between rows of guards and soldiers, is
understood to be pierced in a region where reigns _burocracia_
and the police. Yet it would be unfair to (relatively) when I complained.
If the foreigner who came alone was subjected to rigorous Inquisition
(especially if you have Italian names), the parent, not inspired
distrust same era (in 1858) much better treated by the Inland
Revenue _dragones_ and Police.

In However, it would be much the gullibility of the passenger should
rely on these appearances. Things are arranged so in France, that no
act of the individual, even the most innocent, escape to the vigilance
of the police. In 1858 the Consul in London, for example, did
not extend the _visa_, but after careful consideration it towards
the passenger, without knowing it, by an employee of the secret
police who watched in silence, and noted the affiliation of the
individual.

That affiliation was France immediately, and served in the
office to verify identity without warning is a nothing. Then, upon
arriving in Paris, it was necessary to undergo a searching
examination egg, take a car that the police knew, to register the
passport, etc.. Etc.

And if you switch or hotel room, the police have the report immediately
by porters and the servants who are their agents, by interest or
by fear. Calais is an old city, lots of historical celebrity,
pretty well built overall, but very ugly and narrow winding streets.
Its population increased from about 14,000 inhabitants, and no account
of remarkable monuments, but among the church community, built during
the British domination (de 1347 á 1558), and belongs to the
Gothic order, the Hotel de Ville (Town Hall) and a magnificent
lighthouse that was
established in 1848.

The city is notable for its plants in beautiful cotton gauze, which
are very active, its modest library and school of hydrography.

The port is interesting for its
customs, its sea-bathing, numerous steam-packets, the submarine
telegraph, its extensive fisheries and its new artificial springs.

Calais is famous in the military history of France by the famous
siege of thirteen months sustained the heroic Eustache de Saint-Pierre,
who had to capitulate to the forces of Edward III of England in
1347, and for having been the basis of the domination exercised by
the English on a part of France until the time of Joan of Arc and
the duke of Guise.

Calais is a sort of military town, even though its trade and
fisheries, because it has very considerable strengths, dating from
the Middle Ages, whose founder was Philip of France, called Count
of Bologna.

The journey from Calais to Paris city most notable are Lila, Douala,
Arras and Amiens.

The first three, reserving for another story, they were invisible
when we played them.

Something we stopped in Amiens, a city landmark for more than one
occasion and it dates back to ancient times before the Roman conquest.

The Romans called it _Samarobriva_, and it was the capital of France
merovingiana, the former residence of French kings in Gaul.

Amiens has some interesting monuments, especially
its beautiful cathedral, which was built in the twelfth century
and is reputedly one of the most beautiful monuments of Gothic
architecture that has France.

Because of its size and population (50,000 inhabitants), Amiens is
a city of the third order in France, but by their character as
capital of the department and bishops, its institutes of public
education manufacturing and active, is among the second tier cities.

Amiens stronghold is respectable, and apart from the remarkable
role he has done in the history of France, is famous (as recalled)
by the famous peace treaty held there in 1802 between France,
England, Spain and the Batavian Republic and Holland .

It also has the celebrity of being the historic home of Peter
the Hermit, preacher of the Crusades. The city has in its enclosure
many major colleges, all classes, a beautiful library of 50,000 volumes
and a regular botanical garden. Has in the suburbs and many
factories, making an active production of gauze and silk and cotton
velvets, black cloth _satín_, fine fabrics, wool and other fabrics
of merit.

Fabrica also chemicals tafiletes, ropes, etc.., and has numerous
dry cleaners. It has about eight or nine printers, and is the seat
of a legal council who belong to Protestant Calvinist communion. The
surroundings are very beautiful in Amiens by the extension of
cultivation, the plants are anywhere in the meadows, the quaint
cottages and varied, and the vast panorama that stretches in all
directions, almost without interruption in the inflection field.

If in the vicinity of Amiens the landscape is very interesting because
of the proximity of the river dela _Somme_ (which cuts the department)
and about which rail pass _Norte_ - where the traveler is coming to
Paris via Clermont, among Beauvais and Compiègne, making the
countryside more interesting proportions.

South-east _Marne_ descend the river, which joins the Seine near
Paris, by disposing of water that a narrow artificial canal, while
next to the railway running north-east of the river _Oise_ and thickened
with _Aisne_ in Compiegne, narrow and miserable by its volume
(for the Colombian traveler accustomed to seeing large rivers),
but very useful for secondary and inland for irrigation.

The train moves over the Oise, and the river continues its course
towards the west going to be confused with the Seine below Paris. The
space between the Oise and the Marne is vast, and the hills are
very rare plain forms a kind of horizon of grasslands, farmlands, parks
and small forests, rural areas, quarries and mills scattered in
all directions very interesting.

Towards Oise near Paris and are extensive quarries of ashlar
stone, limestone in appearance, but mostly in a sandy loam which
is a lot to ease the immense buildings of Paris today.

The greatest number of those leaving stones quarried in huge
chunks or moles that square in the rough, going to Paris by means
of channels, or in cars pulled by three giant, four or six of these
horses Normans seem to have the constitution of rock, judging
by its size, fitness and strength. * * * * * The beautiful alderredores
of Paris are, in general, making them a weird contrast in the strong
military and the great wall which encloses Circunvalacion to Paris
with the thousand objects of the picturesque countryside and mixed
groups of neighboring populations. The train goes off the beautiful
plain of Saint-Denis, leaving the small town west of the same name
(whose towers and chimneys dominate the skyline), and then enters
into the great French metropolis to the north after crossing the
district gives the _Chapelle_, nestled between the fortifications, to
Saint-Denis, and _barrera_ of Paris, as it is a crowd gives small
towns or districts that are the continuation or the huge circular
suburb of the capital. [1] The city is in not just around the wall
(with its deep pit) at the level of the field outside, covered with
groves of pines, but also about fourteen or sixteen strong defense,
including first place in the ancient and famous fortress _Vincennes_,
outside the Bastille in Paris, France for the grim memory.

All these fortifications, with the exception of Vincennes, was established,
as is well known, by order of Louis Philippe, according to the
dual concerns of defending a new invasion of Paris as of 1815, and
employing workers.

After having spent a huge amount of millions, the king did not
forecast to cause more serious damage to their alderredores and
Paris, and the future of freedom. Indeed, the fortifications,
without benefit of a positive from the point of militarily for
_defensa_ of Paris, not only surrounded the city, the widening of
pregnant its suburbs, but, in fact, can hardly serve as a tool for
oppression.

Those are all strong fourteen towns to serve as references support
for any military tyranny since, full of soldiers, cernirán to Paris
at any time in its population make some movement in the liberal sense.
Thus, the workers of Paris to work in these vast fortifications, did
nothing but ensure the closure of the city, putting it under the
power of a military pressure.

This is always the result of the fortifications. Freedom and justice
are the best bulwarks of defense for a civilized people, while the
_ciudadelas_ are in any case the bolts that hold dominate and enslave
the _ciudades_. The English, very unlike his rivals France, has had
the wisdom to understand the strengths that should not be near the
factories, schools and monuments of civilization - because there
is a power that defends better than All the guns of a sanctuary
city and the famous treasures of art, industry and commerce, that
power is that of social _intereses_ supported freedom.

London has no more strength to its bridges, the vapors, railways,
factories and monuments of every kind. Civilization is the best
guarantee of this immense metropolis of affluence. But France is a
country for military excellence, and it is not unusual for Paris,
the capital of the world's _espíritu_, is surrounded by the tools
of _fuerza_. * * * * * THIRD PARTY. PARIS TO MADRID. * * * * * CHAPTER
I. * * * * * THE BURGUNDY AND LYON. Melun Railways .-- .-- .--
Fontainebleau Montereau Sens. Joigny .-- .-- .-- Dijon
Tonnerre .-- Impressions Night - Panorama Lyon.

If you would like to have a comparative idea of the social revolution
that occurred in Europe's railways, nothing is better suited to
form a deep conviction as a journey from Paris to Madrid, via Lyon,
Marseilles and Alicante - or pass through the midst of the rugged
mountains of Switzerland, on the shores of lovely lakes.

Who would have thought now twenty years that Switzerland, which is
a colossal mountains divided by deep valleys and small lakes, is
surrounded in Brief for locomotives?

And more still: Who would have thought that in 1858, disdain the seas
and the Pyrenees, a traveler could pass from Paris to Madrid in
seventy-two hours, with a thousand comforts and overcome obstacles
so multiplied? And yet, even accortarán rail distance. Within two
years the two great ways to Valladolid and Zaragoza, as two huge arms
by pressing one side of the Pyrenees and another will bind to Madrid
to Bordeaux, on the west, and Perpignan in the east, and then the
capital of France and Spain will be only thirty-six hours away
(since it is measured by time) and the Pyrenees but not appear as
a monument of granite and snow built by nature to be a day over
the great, the eternal witness of the infinite wonders of the work
of civilization, that God works as inspiration and supreme creator,
and man is associated as a tireless worker who receives his wages
in freedom, prosperity and progress.

These thoughts made me the March 24, 1859 , precisely one year after
arriving in Paris, from the huge pier Lyon railway, giving a
farewell to the metropolis of the intellectual world, which was half
my life and the supreme treasure of my love.

Sentíame almost already fatigued artificial life that is in Paris,
where everything is the result of a sort of tacit convention of society
- where fashion reigns as an absolute sovereign, and the heart can
not find your spontaneity or feel it, but when locked in the sanctuary
of the family, fleeing the bustle of a fascinating world in which
endless whirlwind stirring. He went to visit Spain, the old home
of the heroic founders of mine - the home of my grandparents, my
language and everything that nourished my spirit in the happy days
of early youth. A wonderful time, da early spring invited to find
delight in the outdoors and aspiration in this restless contemplation,
fantastic in some ways, the countryside and small towns, leads us
to the place of the locomotive, making us move with the speed of
hurricane by between castles and hills, forests and cities, and how
is the little rugged but marvelous panorama of the central or
southern France, in all directions as the opulence of culture
produces the same results.

The poem is missing, because wherever the plow has civilized the land
to the refinement, but if the poet is unlikely to pick up prints in
the race, the traveler will find everywhere revealing a relatively
comforting. The fort of Charenton was back and the suburbs of
Paris last lost behind the slight inflection of the ground, while
the east is developing the vast countryside, stripped of natural
charm but rich in details of civilization and culture.

At a bend of the back rail is discovered an extremely picturesque
setting. The Seine, yet very important, because it has not received
even _Marne_ waters, which increases flow in the vicinity of Paris,
makes a bow there, dividing the small and graceful city of Melun,
reclining on the side of a hill dotting the edges of small forest
of pines and oaks. Nothing is achieved between the buildings to see
Melun drawing attention as an object of art, but the population
is not just smiling all the delays on the banks of a river clean
and murmurante but is interested in the business.

It is there that go down to Paris rowing the heavy boat, or drawn by
horses, pipes filled with burgundy wine, wheat and firewood,
timber and coal from the vast lowland forests that are conserved
in those with great care. Thereafter, towards the south-east, the
horizon opens and runs, without being interrupted more than yellow
or green hills, isolated and distant, always round and almost
all of sandstone or limestone formation, whose elevation varies between
80 and 200 meters apparently. Everywhere there are beautiful fifths
of simple and quaint architecture, surrounded by willows and pines
persistent, steep or poplar and flexible anywhere prairie symmetrically
boundaries and engage small number of crops (vineyards, wheat
or vegetables) that reveal their accurate boundary conditions and
multiplied that wonderful territorial division of the property as
beneficial for France, due to the great revolution that desamortizó
stagnant or dormant assets and founded equality hereditary.

The train crosses the hilly region of Fontainebleau, and does not
distinguish or the nearby city or the famous palace, the scene of
the loves and the festivals of the voluptuous court of Louis XIV, and
the first fall or abdication of Napoleon proud.

Hardly, when passing through forests of oak and fir trees, is on one
side which is the famous forest of Fontainebleau specialty, rich in
precious and aromatic wood joinery and construction of a sumptuous
and beautiful, and bright green in spring and summer, -
varied and melancholy in the fall. Leaving behind the vast forest
are found in high hills Montereau, heroic field of battle won by
an unnecessarily marshals of Napoleon on the eve of the abdication
of Fontainebleau. At the foot of the city late Montereau, something
considerable population and beautiful location at the confluence of
the Seine with _Yonne_ and thickened somewhat by the union of the
waters of _Aube_.

The game of the hills to the plains, the rivers and the city
give the landscape an enchanting look of freshness and joy. Montereau
point scale is an important part in domestic trade, manufacturing
has some significant and is primarily an agricultural center noticeable,
but the city has no interest in structure, since four or five towers
that are on the bottom of the pale Hills are a vulgar architecture.
Rail continues
alongside the left bank of Yona (Yonne), gentle river, slow and
quiet, low margins and light waves all the rivers of France, who
are almost totally leveled by plains.

In Joigny, small picturesque village, and at the point of sailing,
there is the confluence of the creek _Armanzon_ with Yona, which
runs parallel to a canal as part of a vast irrigation and other
communications and some slow but steady and inexpensive.

Among Montereau Joigny and the traveler is a pleasant surprise going
well ahead of City _Sens_ that delay to the left of Yona, on his
back taking a group of beautiful hills.

Sens, a town of over 25,000 inhabitants, most merchant,
manufacturing and agriculture, in its main square boasts a magnificent
facade of the temple which is a delicious taste pleasure rests
with the look, since you can find a great contrast with the prosaic
art agriculture. The monument, to judge from afar by the magnificent
façade and the tower belongs to the genre of the Gothic part of
the middle ages, that the full arc and match ogiva large groups of
fluted columns and reliefs patiently capricious .

The notes how strange the feeling of the picturesque, the commercial
instincts and foresight have determined the hygienic training uniform
for all the stocks of the journey. Rare is the city or town, large
or small, not resting on the bank of a river at the bottom or at
the foot of a hill or more defend the violent and icy winds from
the east.

This homogeneity of situation makes them have many similarities
in their general appearance to the people that delay between Paris
and Lyon. Moreover, industry and the nature of the ground also keeps
a complete homogeneity across this vast plain covered with vineyards,
which are called the Burgundy, and that, by taking center Dijon,
extends from Joigny to near Lyon.

Sometimes one discovers far groups of tall chimneys that reveal a
small manufacturing center, already pays a canal or river where
the boats are dragged slowly feeding the trade of consumer goods
immediately, and the hills disappear altogether, the ground lost
to the slightest accident to do so picturesque, and the vast plains,
seemingly desolate, lost in a limitless horizon as the eye wanders
in vain looking for something in what reposarse. sometimes the
horizon is a little close from one side to another, depending on
the grouping of the hills, and look at her soft skirts (protected
against hurricanes tend to arrive from the mountains of the Vosges
or the Jura) funny people grounded in the amphitheater, which
emphasizes depth some old castle of feudalism, and to provide a set
full of grace and caprice, dotted with groups of pines and other
trees, and crowned with ribbons of small forests whose shade brown
hare contrast with pale blue and white clouds of a magnificent sky.

The Burgundy is actually a huge garden, because if its rounded hills
interrupt the passage way in the plains, wherever you see the same
rows of vines that cover the spring and summer vegetables
generous liquor. Often are when you return bend a small
hamlets miserable huts consisting of black-out and depressed, which
revealed too little welfare and neglect. Most of them are rickety
shacks of rough stones or adobes bad together, covered with straw
or tiles shattered, the rain and wind have holes everywhere.

The farmer in this region has a somewhat intelligent and lively appearance,
and his poor dress of blue cotton cloth, indicates that the lack of
shelter in the winters afflicting the rural population. The
donkey, very miserable dimension, it replaces the horse (animal
_urbano_ for excellence in France, which is said by the way, is
treated there sticks, like almost all _ciudadanos_ living and passive
obedience).

And not only is the humble servant of a donkey resigned farming, but
he was honored with the draft of the tartan and light carts rustic,
neglected or ride with confidence. Tonnerre is a town quite
considerable (albeit in fifth order France) for some products because
of their large trade in wine and as a center of production of
that item. Is located on the left bank of Armanzon, where part of the
creek channel Burgundy linking the Seine to the Saône, allowing
the passage of a wonderful boat to across the France, from the mouth
of the Seine in the channel of the stain in the Rhone to the
Mediterranean. Tonnerre lacked any interest in the field of monuments,
and then lose sight of the ground took proportions that make it
appear sad and desolate. Passing through the route of the railway
Montbard á Vitteaux leads its course through the midst of rugged
hills grouped as large boulders, some pierced by _túneles_ more or
less deep, dug in granite rocks, quartz crystals of siliceous
schistosomiasis or harsh, with no visible stratification, and in
crowded masses perpendicular.

There is all the way to Dijon no other hills of this formation,
although the distance can see some high blue granite rocks, which
glisten in the sunlight as monumental tombstones. Dijon is a great and
beautiful city of about 60,000 people who deserve the utmost
interest as historic capital, which was seat of the ancient
and powerful dukes of Burgundy, for its superior architectural
monuments, its literary institutes, scientists and charities, and his
movement manufacturing, agriculture and trade.
And
consequently it is said that by ascending He "opened the way before
them."
_______________________

SIXTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 49, Art. 6]

Whether by His Passion Christ Merited to Be Exalted?

Objection 1: It seems that Christ did not merit to be exalted on
account of His Passion. For eminence of rank belongs to God alone,
just as knowledge of truth, according to Ps. 112:4: "The Lord is high
above all nations, and His glory above the heavens." But Christ as
man had the knowledge of all truth, not on account of any preceding
merit, but from the very union of God and man, according to John
1:14: "We saw His glory . . . as it were of the only-Begotten of the
Father, full of grace and of truth." Therefore neither had He
exaltation from the merit of the Passion but from the union alone.

Obj. 2: Further, Christ merited for Himself from the first instant of
His conception, as stated above (Q. 34, A. 3). But His love was no
greater during the Passion than before. Therefore, since charity is
the principle of merit, it seems that He did not merit exaltation
from the Passion more than before.

Even King John Bremer had explicitly with the same rights as the
Cologne admitted they now follow the hamburgers, the people of Lübeck,
and soon afterward the suburb of the Hanseatic League, from Rostock,
Wismar, Stralsund, Greifswald. Cologne, jealous of this
Herbeidrängen the North Germans who still want to rumble so much,
in 1260, all jointly by Henry III. a big blank check issued to all
merchants of Alemanni, the London house to possess, which the German
Gildhalle means that the _Aula Teutonicorum_.

_I answer that,_ Merit implies a certain equality of justice: hence
the Apostle says (Rom. 4:4): "Now to him that worketh, the reward is
reckoned according to debt." The professor who is not thought that he
had a sonnet or Triolett make everything well again, even by a
couple _ottave rime_ even when Trübenau again insinuieren could now
contradicted almost every claim submitted to NATAS. And oh! not to his
advantage, because this, in the dialectic of the good man catheter
is far superior, has led him onto the ice so that the ceiling light
of his logic and tear it into a chaos of contradictions hinabzustürzen
threatened. A sweetly fragrant punch punch broke some time the dispute
of the tongue, but it gave rise to the more hostile glances between
woman and woman of Trübenau Thing.

This was her beautiful, rounded arms recognizes the huge silver spoon
taken to the potting all the gracefulness of their attitude to develop.
But those serving the cup filled with such grace, with such loving
eyes, that the desire to see each other as much as possible to
do demolition, was unmistakable. But the very strong punch to the soft
autumn evening showers was ousted when he began, the cheeks of our
ladies to higher dye and from the eyes of men to shine, because
it seemed to me one time, as if you do not know how, from the
confines of decency herausgetreten. All sorts of stupid thoughts
went in with up and down, the conversation purred and hummed like a
mill wheel, you laughed, and jauchzte and knew not what. We giggled
and tease, and the upper forest was even a game with Pfänder kissing
in the proposal. Suddenly, I heard that hoarse laugh again, which
I described earlier in front of the window to hear really believed
it was NATAS, listening to the professor, and despite the enthusiasm
and seriousness with which all those submitted, all the moments
in his hoarse laughter erupted. "Not true, my heart, and ladies, "cried
the professor out of the punch out," You yourself have just noticed
that our dear friend to each of you, albeit in another form, already
met? you remain silent? Is this also Raison, a so sit in the sand to
leave? Waiter Forest Champion! woman Thing, madam! tell themselves,
including you, Herr Doktor! "We were through the indiscretion of
professor in great embarrassment. "I remember," I replied, when
everything was silent, "of interesting faces and speak to their
confusion. And if I am not mistaken, was also lord of NATAS listed."
The Named bowed and said that it was even too much honor for him to
count the interesting, but the professor again spoiled everything.
"What da!

I suppose not a leaf in front of the mouth, "said he," I claimed
that I am terribly in Dero was close, and told how to Stuttgart in
the poor rabbit hit strangles have, you know more, Gracious Lord?
"This however was on , ran with schrillendem laughter around the room,
and suddenly I felt the ill-making of my father Doctor city before me
to have and it was no longer NATAS, it was an older man Uncanny.

"As you's so much," cried the professor, " there Barighi as he runs
around. "Barighi?" said Ms. von Trübenau. "Stay with your Barighi
but at home, it is our dear Gruber private secretary, who is entered."
"I would like to ask forgiveness, gracious woman, "she broke in the
upper forest," it is the player Maletti, with which I am in Wiesbaden
last summer was associated. "" Ha!

ha! how it can be fooled, "said wife of Things, the up = and outgoing
through the glasses perlmutterne observation," it is none other
than the kapellmeister Schmalz, who taught me the guitar. "" Why
not! "growled the old economist, "it's funny the commissioner,
who sent me the good bread delivery to the hospital in D --- n gives."
"Oh! Papa! "Giggled his daughter, 'that was black, and this is blonde!
Do you know because the young farmer is not more of us wanted to
Practical shot?" "Get me the
heck, and all weather," shouted the Prussian Captain, "that is the
cursed prince Laden and Ellen Reiter, my Lorcher wegfischte!

On guns, I ask the dog, tomorrow, right now."

He jumped up and wanted to always calm and outgoing = On losstürzen.

The professor but grabbed him by the arm: "Stay away, ester value,"
he cried, "I've found, I've found, reverts to its name, it's the
S atan!"

* * * * * FOURTH CHAPTER.

The manuscript As much as I've written here, lives by that evening
in my memory, but it cost quite some time until I reflect back on
everything was.

I have in a long, deep sleep have been, because when I woke up,
stood before me, Jean, and asked through the curtain for the morning
sun opened, whether now was the cup of tea?

It was eleven o'clock clock. Where was the time between yesterday
and today go?

My first question was how to bed because I had come.

The waiter was amazed at me and said with a smile, but visible,
which I should know better than him.

"Ah!

I remember, "I said casually, in order to hide my ignorance," after
the evening table ...."

"Forgive the Doctor," broke me of posturing. "They have not soupiert.
you were all about tea and punch at No. 15 "" Right, on No. 15, I
wanted to say. Is the Professor already on? "" Do you not know that
they have already departed? " asked the waiter. "Not a word!" I
assured astonishment. "He lets you have many times recommended,
and you want to but in T. opponent for him, nor can he ask that his
of yesterday evening, and quite often do, he have said yes
immediately. "" Aha, I know, "I said, because with einemmal was a
part of me saw yesterday."

When is he left? "" Just in the morning, "replied that," even before
the Lord and Ökonomierat Upper Forest masters. "" How? so are these
weggereist? "" Ah yes! " cried the amazed waiter. "So you know
not? Also not that the wife of Things and the madam of Trübenau -"
"You are no longer here?"

"Barely half an hour ago, the gracious woman away," that insured. I
rubbed my eyes, to see if I was not dreaming, but it was and remained
so. Jean was still in my bed and held the coffee board in his hand.
"And Lord of NATAS?"

I asked sheepishly. "Is still here. Oh, this is a golden master. If not
would have been, we would be tonight in the biggest embarrassment has
come. "" Why? "" Well when Fatalität with the wife of Trübenau.
Who would have thought but also to the merciful Lord believed that
he was so good to let the conductor understood?

"" To leave streak? Lord of NATAS? "" I see the doctor are gone to
bed early and have had a quieter night than we do. "Jean taught
me to leichtfertigem tone:" It hardly eleven clock might have been
the history with the police was already gone - "" What a story with
the police? "" Well, No. 15 is out front, and because, with Permiß
to say, there a quite hellish noise, so the round came into the house
and wanted abbieten. Lord of NATAS, however, a good friend of Mr.
police lieutenant must be reassured that they went again. So afterwards
came the girls of the Women's Chamber of Trübenau herabgestürzt
their gracious woman wanted to die. You can imagine how unpleasant
such a thing in an inn at night eleven to twelve clock. We like
the wind up, on the stairs met us Lord of NATAS asks what the race
and running to mean that, hardly heard, where it is missing, so
he runs into his room, gets his wallet, and before five minutes
pass, he has my lady on your arm with a lancet vein open that the
blood in a bow jumped up. It proposed the eyes again, and it was
probably her soon, but promised Lord of NATAS, at her watch. "" Ah!
what you say, Jean, "cried my full admiration." Yes, just wait! Hardly
is an hour gone, so was the dance of the new release. From No. 18
heralded the fact that we thought it burn over there in Kassel. Mr
Ökonomierat Rosalie had her get hysterical seizure. The old man liked
a glass on the thirsty, for he spoke of the devil, and he
and his child would get. We knew nothing other than back to our
refuge Lord of NATAS to take. He had promised, when the wife of the
chamber with Trübenau girls to watch, but, dear God, he must have slept
like a roof, because we knocked three = four times until he gave
us answers, and the Chamber cat was now no longer to awake. ""
Well, he and the beautiful to the core Rosalie?

"" No, he has her, as I said Lizzie, Senfteig two hand wide over heart,
then it will soon have. "" Poor Professor! " I thought, "your
beautiful rose with its sixteen of years and this NATAS confidential
silence in the night, a patch to the throbbing heart pappend." "The
Lord Ökonomierat dad was probably attacked by the very history?" I
asked to discuss the matter Clear ins to come. "It seemed not, for
he slept on, even before the Lizzie Hirschhorn spirit returned
from the pharmacy. But it heralds the second floor, and this
applies to me."

He talked's arrow and flew quickly away. It was at once the merry
company scattered, and yet I knew not how it all came so suddenly.
Although I entsann me that yesterday in the Odd Punsch
something had happened, but what it might have been, I could not
remember.

NATAS If you can give me insight? But, if I nachsann with NATAS was
something. The professor has fluctuated around in my memory - best
seemed to me to NATAS to go and ask him for the cause of the rapid
departure to ask. I threw myself into the dress, and before I even
fully with the short toilet was finished, brought
me a Lohnlakai following ticket: "Ew.

Born probably would connect me endlessly when you before my departure
from here, on the lunch is fixed, I wanted to visit again. v.

NATAS. "Curious, I followed this call and met a friend ready between
suitcases and boxes are available.

He came to me with his winning performance opposite, it embarrassed
me a train of unmistakable irony, now played around his mouth and I
never had noticed in him. He laughed me out that I am against the
women as weak drinker expelled and a hair bag umgeschnallt me have
told me that I saved those who had, and asked me lurking with a glance
what I had yesterday night knew. I told him my muddled memories, he
belachte they cordially Ausgeburten and called it a sick imagination.
The departure of the whole society, he gave a big Herbstfeierlichkeit
fault, which will held in Worms.

They were all, even the moros economist, there reassure himself but
called his business down the Rhine. Trübenau The coincidences of the
beautiful Rosalie and he measured the strong punch, and rejoiced
by hobby just as much medical knowledge in order for such a small
coincidences help you.

We stopped the car in front, so the waiter returned and brought from
the hotel a grateful oldest bottle of Rhine wine. NATAS she
deserves, because truly, just as long as he had us tied here.

"You are a writer, my dear doctor?" he asked me while we are smelling
the narcotic ausschlürften farewell drink. "pfuscht Who does not
nowadays something in the literature?" I answered him. "I have
previously tried as a poet, but soon enough I saw that, I do not
sing for immortality . so I grabbed a few shades deeper and
translated works of foreign nations undying love for the German
audience. "He praised my humble resignation, as he called it, and
asked me if I could decide, the memoirs of a famous man, which
until now only the manuscript was available to translate?

"Provided that you can decipher, it's an easy job for you, because
I have the key to this would give the manuscript and in High German
is written." I showed myself, of course, very willing to do so. I
used to decipher understood and hoped with little practice to
learn perfectly. It closed a nice box of red Saffian and handed me a
manuscript often bound together. The signs crept me in front of
the eye around like ants in their hill aufgestörten Chen, but he
gave me the key of his secret correspondence, and the work seemed
to me again so easily. We hugged us and told us goodbye. Under warm
thanks for his goodness, even as he had for me, for the beautiful days,
he prepares us have, I accompanied him to the car. The door is
closed, the Postillon to cut off his four horses, they moved on, and
the interesting phenomenon flew from Hinnen, but from inside the car,
I thought that hoarse laugh to hear that I yesterday forth among
the fragments of my memories preserved .

When I took the stairs hinanstieg, handed me a letter headwaiter. The
professor told him that my own hands it over to kneel, and I tore
it to - "Dear, appreciated!" I'm in the process, my horse to climb
and from this cave of roaring lions to escape. I am writing to
tell you goodbye, because you from the stun todähnlichen that you
harder than all of us attacked, not to awaken are. The fact that our
beautiful life together so the show certainly had!

Not true, my dear doubter , now you have it clear that this NATAS
nothing else than the devil incarnate was, "It looks to me, perhaps
in this moment about the shoulder and reads what I say but I will not
be silent. Ökonomierat the poor and his daughter, the Trübenau pale,
my pretty things, the captain and the upper forest master has in
his network. God grant that he lured you do not even have. I am
he half and half, because I have too deeply into his eingebissen with
chemical ideas studded Angel. I tear myself go and do that I
fortkomme. "Adieu, Best!

Monday, October 7, at 6 clock." Now my memories came back
in droves. Yes, it was the devil, his game had played with us, it was
the devil, it was fun yesterday, to frighten us, it had the devil's
memoirs, which I held in the hand. Who stood by me, but that these
writings I am not through the eyes into the brain hinaufkrochen and
made me mad, and I could not just because I Dechiffreur and Dekopisten
of Satan made unconsciously in his serfdom write? I
grabbed the manuscript in my suitcase and traveled with the professor
to see him to ask for advice.

But I met in Worms no trace of any of the fun society in the three
imperial crowns.

Either it has sought and Satan in his eight cars in his eternal kingdom
gehaudert, or he took me into April skillfully.

The latter seemed more likely. In Worms but I met a pious
clergyman, who was employed Domkirche. I wore my case before him
and received the decision that I should so many fairs have read
about, as the manuscript contained arc. The Council seemed to forgive
me. I traveled to my home and sent on the next Sunday the first
arch Satan into the church.
"For death severed the body and soul . . .
but that the soul was severed from the Word I do not affirm . . . But
should we say that the soul laid itself down," it follows "that it is
severed from itself: which is most absurd." It remains, therefore,
that "the flesh itself layeth down its soul and taketh it again, not
by its own power, but by the power of the Word dwelling in the
flesh": because, as stated above (A. 2), the Godhead of the Word was
not severed from the flesh in death.

Reply Obj. 2: In those words Athanasius never meant to say that the
whole man was reassumed--that is, as to all his parts--as if the Word
of God had laid aside the parts of human nature by His death; but
that the totality of the assumed nature was restored once more in the
resurrection by the resumed union of soul and body.

Reply Obj. 2: Through being united to human nature, the Word of God
is not on that account called human nature: but He is called a
man--that is, one having human nature. Now the soul and the body are
essential parts of human nature. Hence it does not follow that the
Word is a soul or a body through being united with both, but that He
is one possessing a soul or a body.

Reply Obj. 4: As Damascene says (De Fide Orth. iii): "In Christ's
death the soul was separated from the flesh: not one hypostasis
divided into two: because both soul and body in the same respect had
their existence from the beginning in the hypostasis of the Word; and
in death, though severed from one another, each one continued to have
the one same hypostasis of the Word. Wherefore the one hypostasis of
the Word was the hypostasis of the Word, of the soul, and of the
body. The teaching and traveling years. What wilt thou be? was the
question that is now my guardian, an uncle of mine, presented
to me. "I would like a mountain specialist
to study!"

"Hast thou money to study?"

This question was my illusion came to an end.

The fact that I wanted to study mountain specialist, was a cause
that, once in the early fifties until the Lahn Wetzlar had been made
navigable, in the Wetzlarer area of a large iron ore mining boom
had taken. Until then, had nearly worthless pile of iron ore from the
adit located, because the high transport costs, the exploitation of
the ore made less profitable.

Since the mountain could be nothing Studies, I decided to become
Drechsler. The offer of a master plumber, with him in the doctrine to
kick, I leaned that the man was unappealing to me, even he calls
in a drinker. Drechsler, I was for the simple reason, because I could
accept that the man is a friend of my mother, the master was
turning, and in the city the reputation of a brave man enjoyed,
will be ready to join me in teaching it.

This happened, too. The reasoning with which he answered in the
affirmative to my question, it was strange enough. He said his
wife had told him that I had my exams at the religious confirmation
in the church, there were very good, he do so, I was otherwise a
useful guy.

Well, I was certainly not a stupid guy, but I would have the untruth
say I wanted to say that I was in the turnery become an artist.
There were those, and my master was among them, but I did it despite
all the effort is not brought about the mediocrity that is not
prevented, that I am three years later, at the end of my apprenticeship,
for my companion piece, the first censorship got.

My physical abilities was affecting my physical weakness. I was a
very feeble boy, which probably also contributed to poor nutrition.
So, our dinner every day for many years only in a moderately large
piece of bread, with butter or Obstmus was thinly coated. We
complained and we complained every day that we still have hunger, there
were the mother regularly to answer: We must close the sack sometimes,
even if he still is not full. The stick was just the dogs. Under sotanen
circumstances it was understandable that we are secretly cut off
a piece of bread when we could. But my mother discovered immediately
and the penalty was not enough. One day I had committed this
crime again. Despite all the trouble that I had given the smooth
cutting of the mother to imitate, the evening was the fact it was
discovered.

My suspicion was that I do not know why, to my brother, who immediately
with the broad side of a long ruler Bureau, which consists of
fathers estate came a couple of strokes received. My brother protested
that he was not the perpetrator was. That was but my mother
as a lie, and so he got a second helping. Now I wanted to sign me
as a perpetrator, but there occurred to me that would be foolish, my
brother had the blows away, and I would probably have been more than
he received. Thus I consoled my brother, when these allegations made
to me afterwards, that I am not as the perpetrator had reported. It
is understandable if many years was my ideal, my sandwich at once
efficient enough to eat them. Master and mistress were very
ordinary and respected people. I had all the meals in the home, the
food was also good, but not overly abundant. My lesson was a severe
and long work.

Tomorrow 5 clock began the same evening and lasted until 7 clock without
a break. From the lathe went to dinner and the food in the bank.
Once I was up this morning, I had four times the champion two buckets
of water from the wells five minutes away get a job for which I
have 4 week cruiser penny was equal to 14 .

That was the pocket money that I had during the apprenticeship. I
seldom was allowed out during the week, the evening almost did not,
not without special permission. Similarly, it was held on Sunday, in
which our Hauptverkaufstag was because the country people came to
town and their purchases of tobacco pipes, etc. and make repairs
were.

In the evening or at night I had two or three hours out. I was in this
respect perhaps the most strictly held in Wetzlar apprentice, and I
often cried with rage when I saw the beautiful Sundays, as the friends
and comrades were walking, while I was in
the store and wait on customers and their farmer had to clean up
dirty pipes.

Only on Sunday morning, the Sunday after I no longer attended school,
I was allowed to go to church.

But I did not enthused. So I used the opportunity to see the church
tails.

But be sure not to be overwhelmed, I always asked first, what song would
be sung and the pastor preaching. One Sunday, but seized my destiny.
At dinner the master asked if I was the church? Dreist I replied:
Yes! He further asked: what a song was sung? I gave the number, but
discovered to my horror that the two daughters who were sitting at
the table with little laughter could verbeißen.

When I turn now to the third question of the pastors who preached want?
also gave an incorrect answer, they beat a loud laugh at. I
was fooled. I was too early to Kirchtüre gone even before the clerk,
the new songs had aufgesteckt number, and in relation to the name of
the priest, I was wrong have been reported. The Master said dry: it
seems that I am from the church did nothing, I would like to stay
at home.

That was a nice bit of freedom is lost. I threw myself with greater
zeal so as to allow reading of books that I read without a choice,
of course, mostly novels. I was in school my privileged position
against comrades, whom I in solving the tasks, or helped them the
same copying allowed, used it to make me to reward books that they
had to borrow.

Thus, for example, I came to read Robinson Crusoe and Uncle Tom's
Cabin. Now I used my few pennies to books from the lending library
to fetch. One of my favorite writers was Hackländer, whose soldiers
live in peace helped my enthusiasm for the military something to
dampen. Next I read Walter Scott, the historical novels of Ferdinand
Stolle, Luise Mühlbach etc. The fathers estate, we had some history
books rescued.

So a book is a very excellent summary of the history of Greece and
Rome included. The author I've forgotten. In addition, some
books on Prussian history, of course, officially calibrated,
whose contents I had in his head so that I all the data in terms of
Brandenburg-Prussian princes, famous generals, battle days etc. clockwork
hersagen could. I painfully waited for the end of the apprenticeship,
I was longing, the whole world durchstürmen. But as fast as I wish
it was not. On the same day when my apprenticeship was finished, my
master died, and also on the tuberculosis, which were then rife in
Wetzlar formally.

So, I arrived in the strange situation, on the same day on which I had
become a journeyman, also to be CEO. Another companion was not present,
a son of the business would be able to continue, was missing, so
decided the champion, gradually auszuverkaufen and abandon the business.
For the champion, with a strikingly pretty for her age and unusually
sprightly woman who I always treated well, I would have gone through
fire. I showed her my devotion by now that I worked on my strength.
From May until the August, I stood with the sun on the evening and
worked until 9 o'clock clock and later. At the end of January 1858
was the business wound up, and I prepared myself for the journey.
When I was adopted by the champion, gave it to me except the
wages still due thalers travel money. On 1 February I joined the trip
on foot in heavy snow to drift. My brother, who learned the carpentry,
accompanied me for about an hour way. When we adopted, he broke
into violent crying from an emotion that I never had seen him. I
should him the last time seen. In the summer of 1859, I received the
message that he is within three days, impose a severe arthritis was.
So, I was the last of the family. My next destination was Frankfurt
aM From Langgöns from, I used the train and was so still in the
same day evening in Frankfurt, where I was in the hostel to Prince
Charles there.

I wanted to work yet, so I went two days later by train to Heidelberg.
The train on which I rode, had glass windows instead of curtains from
fustian, which came to be identified. At that time nor the Paßzwang,
meaning there was for the boys craft a commitment to ensuring a hiking
book to lead into the routes through which they wanted, the police
registered - target - were. Those who had no visa, was punished.

In many cities, including Heidelberg, there was more at that
time the requirement that the craft morning boys 8-9 clock on the
Police had come to a physician, particularly in infectious skin
diseases, to investigate. Who the hour for this visitation overlooked,
with the departure had to wait for the next few days, he had no
visa. So it was me, because I knew the rule and not the Police
came too late. I emigrated from Heidelberg to Mannheim on foot
and from there to Speier, woselbst I was working. The treatment was
good and the food is plentiful and also, I had to sleep out in the
workshop in a corner of a bed was added.

That happened to me later in Freiburg iB In that time, in the craft
nor the general custom, that the journeymen in the masters in
food and housing, and the latter was often miserable. The wage was
low, he was in Week 1 per Speier guldens 6 Kreuzer, about 2
marks.

When I complained about, said the master: he had in his first job
in a foreign land will no longer receive.

The liked the past fifteen years have been.

Once the spring came, suffered me not in the workshop. In early April
I went back on the roller, as the art of expression is for hiking.
I marched through the Palatinate after about Landau and Germersheim
on the Rhine back to Karlsruhe and land up on Baden-Baden, Offenburg,
Lahr to Freiburg iB, woselbst I took back to work.

In that spring was the demand for Schneider aides immensely strong,
and as I walked very fast and express the idea that we evolved from
a journeyman tailor made corresponded perfectly, I was on this trip
more often even before the gates of the cities of Schneider masters
mentioned, in me an object for their exploitation believed to be
seen.

Several did not want to believe that I was not a tailor, while
others again apologized to me for such a hold, "because I totally
look like a tailor." In Freiburg iB verlebte I have a very pleasant
summer.

Freiburg is its location one of the most beautiful cities in Germany,
its forests are enchanting, the Schlossberg is a wonderful piece
of earth, and trips into the surrounding attract dozens magnificently
situated places.

But what I was lacking was the appropriate connection to like-minded
young people. A connection with specialized cooperatives existed
at that time. The guild was abolished, and new trade union organizations,
there were not. Political clubs, which one would have as workers, may
also not exist. Even in Germany there was the reaction. For pure
entertainment clubs, but I had no sense and no money. Since I heard
of the existence of the Catholic Association Gesellen at the Karlsplatz
his own club house had. After I am satisfied that other believers
would host, met me, although I was then a Protestant, in the same.
I have nachmals as long as I in southern Germany and Austria zubrachte,
in Freiburg and Salzburg, the Catholic Association Gesellen a
member and have not regretted . The culture clash was fortunately
at that time yet. In these societies, therefore, was also at that time
against other believers full tolerance. The president of the association
was always a pastor. The president of the Freiburg club was later
in the culture war has become very well known Professor Alban Stolz.
Membership was by that of the members elected Altgesellen represents,
after the president was the most important person. There have been
temporarily lectures and lessons in various disciplines granted,
for example, in French. The clubs were a kind of educational associations,
as these clubs later Gesellen designed to have about the interview I
had nothing to say. In the club room, they found a number but only
Catholic newspaper, from which one could learn but what in the
world was experiencing.

That was for me, already at the end of the school and afterwards in
the apprentice years, when the Crimean war was kindled, is vividly
distressed about politics, one main thing.

The need for dealing with peers and ambitious young people met here
his satisfaction. A peculiar element in the association were
Kapla who, young and fun-loving, were glad that they are the same
elements could connect.

I have a couple of times with these young Kapla enjoyed the evenings
verlebt. One such evening I verlebte in Munich, among others, by
which I Gesellen
club house on the return journey from Salzburg is visited and
lived, and in early March 1860.

Gesellen left the club member the place, so he got a hiking book
that made him into the clubs and journeymen in the parish gentlemen,
if it is in these wanted to audition for support, legitimacy.

I am still the owner
of such a book in which on the first page of St.

Joseph with the Christkindlein on the arms is displayed. St. Joseph
is the patron saint of journeymen associations.

The same founder, Pastor Kolping, then in Cologne, which, I am not
mistaken, even in his youth was a shoemaker's apprentice, I learned
in Freiburg im Breisgau know woselbst one day he gave a lecture.

In September, it pushed me, weiterzuwandern.

I left Freiburg and marched on through the wonderful weather on the
Black Höllental after Neustadt Donaueschingen and Schaffhausen.

A wonderful sight it was in those days, even the afternoon
sky on a giant comet - Donate to the - to observe the rare glory
shone, and a tail of extraordinary length possessed.

At that time, the Black still in its full splendor and glory.

Decades later, the ax and the saw large stretches of magnificent
forests felled and gelichtet.

The modern development, it called for. In Switzerland, I was not allowed
to stay. The stay in Switzerland was the Prussian crafts boys forbidden
by their government. Was it the New Burger dispute the year before
until the detriment of the Prussian Government had been
terminated.

Furthermore, the Republican boys craft ideas can be recorded, and
that was in the interest of public order be prevented. When I in the
spring of 1858 to the Prussian legation in Karlsruhe for permission
to reside in Switzerland, asked me this was with reference to the
existing prohibition denied.

So I walked on the Swiss side to Constance, continued to ship on Lake
Constance to Friedrichshafen , with a result of a storm, I was
seasick. From Friedrichshafen, the march on foot through Ravensburg,
Biberach, Ulm, Augsburg to Munich.

In Württemberg at that time consisted in the establishment of the
cities that the traveling journeymen craft a so-called gift to
the city could receive, in Rule 6 of the cruiser was to hold them from
the fencing.

I have this gift anywhere diligently collects. From Ulm joined me
a stocky Tyrolese, who looked like a butcher, but was a tailor.
Instead of a Berliner Militärtornister he wore on his back, which
gave him, since he also wore a linen blouse, gave a strange
appearance. Since our money was scarce and fencing at no time as
a disgrace for a craft fraternity was, quite often, we knocked the
villages which we passed. One again, we had lunch in a village, a
strategic plan. "You take the right side, I left!" said. When I came
into a house and raised, I received from the daughter with the gift
at the same time warning me to take in eight, the policeman was nearby.
That I was told and did not speak anymore. But when I out of the
village a stately house looked, but on the other side, but it looked
as if its inhabitants Craft boys support, I could not resist the
temptation and walked drauflos. Fortunately I saw the house from the
outside to me again before I use the six or seven stone steps
hinaufstieg, and since I discovered to my surprise over the door a
sign with the contents: Royal Bavarian Gendarmerie Station.

Here I went with a prayer over and put me outside the village in the
beautiful sunshine on a lawn, so my traveling is expected. This
finally came angetrappt and marched directly to the house going,
which is on the side was allotted to him.

Without it from outside view, he climbed the stairs and went inside.
I confess that I am at this moment of a real attack was Lachkrampf.
After a few seconds, but came home to the Tyrolean out shooting,
jumped with a powerful sentences on all stairs and ran, making him
the legs could carry, it. When I laughingly asked him what had happened,
he told them: he was right after Kuchel (Kitchen) has gone from a
very good smell was there but have a policeman in shirt sleeves and
stood angeschnauzt him what he wanted.

He had of course immediately recognized the situation and spur
it to be brushed out home. Other afternoon we came to Dachau. This
trip made my colleague's proposal, we should both be at the tailor
masters Umschau keep what I very well could be, because everyone
I think for a cutter. It should be pointed out at a Umschau with the
masters of the industry fell significantly abundant gifts, as if
challenged. Thought so. Precaution,
however, I had the Tyrolean the priority.

That this wise traded was immediately apparent.

We climbed in a home and the stairs were ringing out the champion.

As soon as the Tiroler said: Two zugereiste Schneider ask for a gift,
the master replied: Very pleased, I can do both well, give me
your hiking books. Was he the hiking book in the hand, so was the
slave chain forged, because then you had to work to begin.
While the Tyrolean hesitantly walking his book bag from the rock moved,
I made rechtsumkehrt and sprang in large sets down the stairs to the
town and beyond. That I Tirolean lost as a travel companion, I regretted
that he was a good comrade and shareholders have been pleasant.

Resulted from Dachau at that time a dead straight road, the right and
left filled with poplars breitgewachsenen was to Munich. The image of
the road was completed by the towers of Munich's Frauenkirche, the
Heinrich Heine's "Stiefelknecht" at the end of the mile-long
road seemed to stand. Querulous I wandered my way behind me as a
farmer with a basket of cars appeared, apparently drove to Munich.
About the contents of the wagon was a large tarpaulin covered.

The road was still wide and come in late afternoon. I asked
politely to me whether the mount is allowed. The farmer replied,
in his Bavarian German, which I was not yet understood, but his words
as I presented the consent from. So I climbed on the car and brought
me comfortable on the plane easily. The farmer saw repeated behind
him, and cried a lot to me, but what I also did not understand. Finally
we moved to Munich. The car stopped at the Karlstor in front of a
store clerk.

I sprang from, pulled his hat and thanked politely for free. In the
same moment, the farmer pulled the tarp back on the now several pounds
heavier butter lumps stuck. I had, without knowing it, with the
paragraphs in a boots only with the tarpaulin-covered butter
herumgearbeitet. As soon as I saw the delicious mischief, I was
blood red, begged for forgiveness and told me that the damage should
be replaced.

In the same moment, a Lachsalve two young girls, coming from a
window on the first floor and saw the spectacle had observed.

That made me even more embarrassed. The farmer, but helped me quickly
from the embarrassed by my offer to provide compensation,
roughly replied: "Make that fortkommst thou, thou hast a nix!"
And since
naught besides Him must enter into our hearts, a great stone is
rolled against the door." Furthermore, as Origen says (Tract. xxxv in
Matth.): "It was not written by hazard: 'Joseph wrapped Christ's body
in a clean winding-sheet, and placed it in a new monument,'" and that
"'he rolled a great stone,' because all things around the body of
Jesus are clean, and new, and exceeding great."
_______________________

THIRD ARTICLE [III, Q. 51, Art. 3]

Whether Christ's Body Was Reduced to Dust in the Tomb?

Objection 1: It would seem that Christ's body was reduced to dust in
the tomb. For just as man dies in punishment of his first parent's
sin, so also does he return to dust, since it was said to the first
man after his sin: "Dust thou art, and into dust thou shalt return"
(Gen. 3:19). But Christ endured death in order to deliver us from
death. Therefore His body ought to be made to return to dust, so as
to free us from the same penalty.

Obj. 2: Further, Christ's body was of the same nature as ours. But
directly after death our bodies begin to dissolve into dust, and are
disposed towards putrefaction, because when the natural heat departs,
there supervenes heat from without which causes corruption. Therefore
it seems that the same thing happened to Christ's body.

Obj. 3: Further, as stated above (A. 1), Christ willed to be buried
in order to furnish men with the hope of rising likewise from the
grave. Consequently, He sought likewise to return to dust so as to
give to them who have returned to dust the hope of rising from the
dust.

_On the contrary,_ It is written (Ps. 15:10): "Nor wilt Thou suffer
Thy holy one to see corruption": and Damascene (De Fide Orth. iii)
expounds this of the corruption which comes of dissolving into
elements.

_I answer that,_ It was not fitting for Christ's body to putrefy, or
in any way be reduced to dust, since the putrefaction of any body
comes of that body's infirmity of nature, which can no longer hold
the body together. But as was said above (Q. 50, A. 1, ad 2),
Christ's death ought not to come from weakness of nature, lest it
might not be believed to be voluntary: and therefore He willed to
die, not from sickness, but from suffering inflicted on Him, to which
He gave Himself up willingly. And therefore, lest His death might be
ascribed to infirmity of nature, Christ did not wish His body to
putrefy in any way or dissolve no matter how; but for the
manifestation of His Divine power He willed that His body should
continue incorrupt. Hence Chrysostom says (Cont. Jud. et Gent. quod
'Christus sit Deus') that "with other men, especially with such as
have wrought strenuously, their deeds shine forth in their lifetime;
but as soon as they die, their deeds go with them. But it is quite
the contrary with Christ: because previous to the cross all is
sadness and weakness, but as soon as He is crucified, everything
comes to light, in order that you may learn it was not an ordinary
man that was crucified."

Reply Obj. 1: Since Christ was not subject to sin, neither was He
prone to die or to return to dust. Yet of His own will He endured
death for our salvation, for the reasons alleged above (Q. 51, A. 1).
But had His body putrefied or dissolved, this fact would have been
detrimental to man's salvation, for it would not have seemed credible
that the Divine power was in Him. Hence it is on His behalf that it
is written (Ps. 19:10): "What profit is there in my blood, whilst I
go down to corruption?" In addition, the vast majority of these
companions and assistants, nor the conviction that one day even
be able to master, including both in Saxony and other states at the
beginning of the sixties, the scope for freedom came.

The political education of these workers was very low. In the fifties,
namely in the darkest years of the response grew in political life
where everything was erstorben, they had no opportunity to put their
political parties.

Workers' associations or clubs craftsmen, as they are often called,
were only occasionally present and serve all, not only of political
enlightenment. Workers' associations have been political in nature
in most German states, not even tolerated, they were even on the
basis of a decision of the Bundestag in 1856 banned because,
according to the Bundestag in Frankfurt was the club synonymous
with workers spread of socialism and communism.

Socialism and communism, but again we were younger at the time,
completely alien concepts, Bohemian villages.

Well were here and there, for example, in Leipzig, isolated persons,
such as Fritzsche, Vahlteich, Schneider shilling, which is one of
Weitlingschen communism, even Weitling writings were read, but these
were exceptions.

That it was also working, for example, knew of the Communist Manifesto
and Marx's and Engels' work in the revolutionary years in the Rhineland
knew something which I have in that time nothing heard in Leipzig.
It follows that the workers were on was a position from which they
neither had a class interest, yet knew that there is no such
thing as a social issue there.

Therefore, the workers flocked in droves to the clubs, the liberal
leaders helped found the workers as the People's kindness Ausbund
appeared. These workers now shooting clubs in the early sixties from
the ground like mushrooms after a warm summer rain.

Notably, in Saxony, but also in the rest of Germany. There were places
in clubs, where many years later, it lasted until the socialist
movement there was some ground, although the former workers' club
meanwhile had been received.

In Leipzig was a very active political life. Leipzig was one
of the headquarters of liberalism and democracy. One day I read in
the democratic "Mitteldeutsche Volkszeitung" to which I subscribe,
and the eight edited Dr.

Peters, the husband of the late well-known champion for women's
rights Luise Otto-Peters, an invitation to a People's Assembly to
establish an educational association. This meeting took place on
19 February 1861 in Vienna Hall, a venue that is near the Rose Garden
in a stand. When I stepped into the restaurant, the same was already
overcrowded. With effort, I found on the gallery space. It was
the first public meeting that I attended. The President of the
Polytechnic Society, Professor Dr. Hirzel had the department,
which announced that an Industrial Education Association as the
second division of the Polytechnical Society wanted to establish,
because workers' associations on the basis of the Bundestag decision
of 1856 in Saxony would not be tolerated.

By contrast, opposition arose. Besides Roßmäßler professor who is
a member of the German Parliament in Frankfurt aM and that of his
professorship at the Academy of Forestry Tharandt by Mr von Beust
gemaßregelt was Vahlteich and Fritzsche took the floor and demanded
full independence of the association, which must be political.
The pursuit of educational purposes is the responsibility of the
school, not a club for adults. I was with these speakers do not agree,
but it impressed me that the workers learned gentlemen as strongly to
the body moved, and wished in quiet, so you can talk to. The association
was founded, and although the opposition has not had , she joined the
club in. I was also a member that evening. The club was in its way a
model institution. Lecturers for scientific Thematas were available
in quantity. So next Roßmäßler Professor, Professor Bock - the arbor-Bock,
and author of the book of healthy and sick people - the professors
Wuttke, Wenck, Marbach, Dr. Lindner, Dr. Reyher, Dr. Burckhardt and
others. Later Professor Biedermann, Hans Blum, from which the legend
was that he had during his student days to his business card as a
student of human rights means that, Dr. Eras, Liebknecht, in the
summer of 1865 came to Leipzig, and Robert Schweichel. One of the
most diligent lecturer in early years was Dr.

Dammer, later the first set of Lassalle Vice President of the General
German Workers' Association was. Teaching was given in English,
French, in shorthand, commercial accounting, the German language
and numeracy. Also, a gymnastic and singing department was
founded. The former occurs when Vahlteich, a great gymnasts before
the Lord was and remained, the singing department came in and I
Fritzsche. Vorzüglich Fritzsche sang second bass, I first, we know
everyone is singing, which has no voice. At the head of the association
was a vierundzwanzigköpfiger Committee, in which the battle for
the presidency erupted.

Roßmäßler subject to the architect Mothes, but the opposition has
worked to plan. The first Stiftungsfest February 1862 held Vahlteich
the speech, which was pronounced politically. He urged
the general vote.

In the election of the Committee, I was also elected in the same.

My yearning to be able to talk
publicly, was in the frequent debates in the club was quickly
satisfied.

A friend told me later that when I for the first time a few minutes
said, in order to justify an application, go to my desk, and another
asked: Who is he who shall occur.

Since different departments within the Committee for the various
subjects were, I was in the library department and the Department
of amusements elected.

In both, I was chairman.

The choice of the club chairman, the committee again had to be
called this time a fierce battle out.

Four was chosen without a candidate for a multi-result.

Always there was a tie.

Finally, subject to re-architect Professor Roßmäßler Mothes with
one voice, because it itself had chosen.

The opposition was now fighting in the General Assembly, which took
place on Good Friday 1862.

The club had about five hundred members. The
opposition put back their old debt to the club to a purely political
and to the lessons from the same ruled out.

After a bitter, battle vielstündigen speech, in which I participated,
it was subject to a majority of three quarters of the votes.

Had the opposition skillful surgery, she would require that temporary
political lectures on time and on events held discussions should
be held, they would have won brilliantly.

But that is the lesson from the Association wanted to banish, for
the vast majority of the younger members had the greatest interest,
appealed to this resistance. I myself took part in the bookkeeping
and stenography participate. Some days before that crucial meeting
had Fritzsche Vahlteich and eager to move me to them hinüberzuziehen.
I could not follow them.

The opposition now resigned and founded the club forward, the Hotel
de Saxe in his headquarters aufschlug. The landlord in this restaurant
was the reaction in the years gemaßregelte former pastor Würkert.
This had its own method, to spread awareness and also his business.
He organized weekly lectures, which he himself did, about all possible
Thematas, such as births and deaths of famous men, political,
current events, etc. On such evenings had pushed his local full.
Then it like an original idea if Würkert, just yet among the guests
to move this and that and a glass of beer was administered, on the
staircase landing took place, which from the upper to the lower
local lead and then all of its visible Lecture held.

Not unlike, but rather to supplement the meetings at the Hotel de
Saxe was the restoration to a good source on the Brühl, one was
built just big cellar bar, which the landlord was eight Grun. In one
corner of that place was a big round table, the table was called
criminals. It said that only the venerable chiefs of democracy could
take place leading to prison or jail or had been obtained had
gemaßregelt. Often met with both.

Since sat Roßmäßler, Dolge, due to its participation in the Maiaufstand
to death was sentenced, to life after prison and was pardoned for
eight years in Waldheim had sat. The "criminals" were continued
by Dr. Albrecht, who in our club taught stenography, Dr.

Burckhardt, Dr. Peters, Friedrich Oelkers, Dr. Fritz Hofmann,
arbor-called Hofmann, boys, etc. We calculated it for us to honor
special if we are at this table in the company of the elderly
to drink a glass of beer were allowed. The head of the club
forward but were content with their club meetings, they wore the
agitation in the workers and public gatherings, which they from
time to time einberiefen, in which Labor issues and daily issues were
discussed. These discussions were still very unclear. We discussed
a disability insurance for workers, on the event of a world exhibition
in Germany, on entry into the National Association, which is
demanding that this annual contribution of 3 Mark in monthly
payments rise so that the workers could join. Next we asked the general
voting for the state and a German parliament, which the workers have
to question. It was also the convening of a general German Workers'
Congress debated on which the claims emerged debate. The question of
convening a Congress workers appeared almost simultaneously in Berlin
and Nuremberg working circles. To their preparation to take necessary
and further expectant workers meeting, a committee was set down in
the next Fritzsche, Vahlteich and other less known workers, I
was elected. In addition to the workers' meetings, which from our
side went out, summoned the local head of the German National People's
Association meetings more often, sometimes with speakers from
abroad, Schulze-Delitzsch, Metz-Darmstadt, etc., where the German
question, the creation of a German fleet, the meantime had become
very acute Prussian constitutional conflict, the question of
Schleswig-holsteinsche etc. were discussed.

Man ersieht already made the list this Thematas that the political life
in Leipzig at that time was an extremely busy and our breath
held. A very popular theme in the interviews of the Liberal
People's Assemblies were also discussions on the Constitution
states in the individual states, especially in Saxony, Hesse-Kassel
and Hesse-Darmstadt.

In the second place followed by Mecklenburg and Bavaria. The Lords v.
Beust (Saxony) and Dalwigk (Hesse-Darmstadt, Germany) were the subject
of particularly heavy attacks. These joined Mr. v. Bismarck, such
as in September 1862 at the head of the Prussian government came.
It was right in the aforementioned small and medium-sized countries
have been following the defeat of the constitutional revolution
breaks and all kinds Oktroyierungen occurred, but no less in Prussia.
Moreover, these small and medium-sized states their criminal activity
only under the protection of Prussia and Austria - the herein a
heart and soul were - can exercise.

Nevertheless, the liberals treated the different shades in their public
attacks, the Small and Medium-Sized States much worse than, for
example, Prussia. And yet, it was Prussia, which will niedergeworfen
the Revolution and in addition to the Oktroyierungen in their own
land in acts of violence against the revolutionaries did not have
to miss.

I remind you of the Gottfried Kinkel sentence to life imprisonment,
the death of Adolf v.

Trützschler in Mannheim and Max Dortü in Freiburg iB, to the shootings
in the Kasemattengräben in Rastatt, to the terrible atrocities which
the Prussian army after the defeat of of Maiaufstandes in Dresden
at the captured revolutionaries he had committed.

Even were the state of Prussia in the fifties under the rule of the
system Manteuffel so that every man at the halfway freethinkers
aufstacheln had indignation and Prussia in Germany and abroad over
the worst discredited. Even in the wake of the constitutional conflict
are looked at his peers in Germany in vain. Mir, which I had as a
policy even in the inexperienced young man had to apply, was the
double standard soon.

And this was the Saxon name of Liberals and Democrats practiced.
However, the system was of the Lord v. Beust, this with the consent
of King Johann of Saxony was staged because of the grass roots
activities and oppression of all kinds and especially by the cruel
treatment of the political prisoners in jail to Waldheim had suffered,
especially and rightly hated. In Waldheimer prison were not less
than 286 Maigefangene, including 148 workers have been brought, of
which already by the year 1854 34, ie 12 per cent, had died.

About 42 of the prisoners was the death sentence was pronounced, then
to life imprisonment "pardoned" were. In the prison Zwickau were 286
political prisoners, including 239 workers who had been jailed, the
country's prison Hubertus Castle, 70 political prisoners home.
In prison to Waldheim was sitting among others Röckel August, music
director in Dresden, a friend of Richard Wagner and builder of the
famous Semper, those two managed to escape. Röckel was because of
his participation in the Maiaufstand to life prison sentence.

After his pardon, in early 1862, after 11-1/2 years in prison to
persuade - he was with the lawyer in Plauen Kirbach the last of the
pardoned convict, because they both refused a clemency submitted
-, 1865, he published on the incidents in the prison Waldheimer a
book, titled: The survey in Saxony and the prison at Waldheim, whose
content in Saxony and Germany, a cry of horror provoked. I was one
of the most avid propagator of Röckels book, I put over 300 items
from, of course, with personal gain, which is not prevented, that
I wrote in the newspaper as workers Koburger trailer Beust was
suspected.

Under the Waldheim was abused Kirbach, I twenty Years later as a colleague
in the Saxon Landtag personally met with probably the worst decision.
He was none of those in prison crept to the Cross, he was director
of the prison a so-called Christian Springer affixed between the feet.
This was about a foot long iron rod between the Leg was attached
to the ankles.

Kirbach wanted to go, so he had to jump, hence the name Springer. In
this procedure, the skin and flesh were to the knuckles crushed, and
not just because Kirbach suffered terrible pain, but also dangerously
ill, he had some time after the jumper back off. Politically,
developed later, the former revolutionary, like so many others,
the National Liberals, but he harbored in a corner of his heart
still democratic inclinations.

He was the only one among the National Liberals in the Saxony state
parliament for our requests for introduction of universal, equal
and direct suffrage voted. An entirely different political development
took Kirbach prison Genosse August Röckel. As the 1866 political
crisis brought about Germany, Röckel turned to the side of his former
enemy v. Beust and went, as in Austria Beust Chancellor was with
him to Vienna in order to afford him Preßdienste. But always there
for states in Prussia prevailed, the Liberals saw in him the state
of German unity alone, as they share the same thought and they could
perform in front of a domination of the mass could be protected.

Therefore it was their tactics, resources and small states within its
power down so that the state of the German occupation, in their eyes
what Prussia was, in so favorable light appeared. The Bismarck era
was this myth is very much in the way, but you said it for a
temporary phenomenon, and then only in Prussia in liberal glory appear.
Herr von Bismarck was a reality but the first rank, and he knew also
the Liberals, of which he said: More than they hate me, they fear
the revolution, something that was correct.

However, passions ran more and more in Glühhitze. Who in the assemblies
of most hotly losschlug Bismarck and the most worrying threats were
loud, which was able to calculate the tumultuous applause. Even some
liberals woke the old revolutionary passion, such as Johannes
Miquel, the ten years earlier by Karl Marx in conjunction confessed
and was even in the sixties, his relations with him had not entirely
abandoned, which is a communist and atheist known and his help to
organize peasant had offered.

Now he threatened the King of Prussia with the fate of the Bourbons,
the workers will be against the Hohenzollern call if they wanted
to accept any reason. Such an expression fell from him occasionally
in the private circles of the General Assembly of the German National
Association in Leipzig. Nearly thirty years later was Johannes Miquel,
as Mr. von Miquel, finance minister of a Hohenzollern, and was himself
the meantime become very tame National Liberal Party, whose founders
he belonged, nor too liberal. Indes liked to Bismarck ears pressed
to such threats -- the deadliest threats through anonymous letters
have probably already been fashion, before it was social democratic
leaders, such as occasionally dozen have received - because he has
publicly admitted later that he was not impossible for the fate
of Criminal Ford to share, as the Minister Charles I of England had
been executed.

He was therefore careful as pater familias, in any case ordered his
house. But the king was at that time the rumor that he is a
result of the continued excitement to suffer hallucinations and feared
that his fate will reach the Bourbons. Those rumors were confirmed
by a subsequent publication, which the deceased Prussian Landtag
deputies of Eynern as Bismarck called personal communication. After
Bismarck had told him: When he was appointed minister in 1862 was
the king he would be contrary to Jüterbog driven and have the utmost
dejection in the same offense. The Baden dominions, of which the
king came, had the conflict with the parliament for intractable
kept him on board to determine progress.

The king had said to him: "Minister, you have become, but only to the
scaffold to climb, due to the space opera is built for you, myself,
the King, will after you turn." The king hoped doubt that I would
finish him these things, - Bismarck said - but I did the opposite,
because I think honest and against any identifiable risk courageous
man knew. I told him the two cases, I immediately thought, perhaps
not entirely ruled out - but if they should occur, what was then Big
keen we should all die once, and it is irrelevant whether a
little sooner or later. He will die as it was his duty to serve
his King and Lord, and the king will die in defense of sacred
rights, which is also his duty against himself and against his people.
You need not equal to Louis XVI. to think of it so unpleasant died,
but Charles I've got a very decent suffered death, such that, in
the same honorable been like on the battlefield.

"When I" - told Bismarck continues - "the king such as soldiers
Portepee to be seized, he was still serious, and then he was sure,
and I traveled with a fun, kampfesfrohen Mannebach to Berlin into
it. "These operations show how the Liberals would have achieved if
they understood the situation auszunützen. But they feared already
behind them, workers. Bismarck's words: if you push him to extremes,
the Acheron, he will be in motion, chased them with a healing
horrors one.

In fact, because all Bismarck pulled to Lord to be the situation, his
tools, he took where he they took place. He would deal with the
devil and his grandmother connected, he found an advantage here.
So he moved August Brass, the chief editor of the then large German
"Norddeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung," in his services, although earlier
this Democrat was red and had sealed pretty song: We color red,
we color well, we stain with blood tyrant! He had also no objection to
that Liebknecht Brass of London and Robert Schweichel of Lausanne
as editors of the "Norddeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung" summoned.

Next succeeded Bismarck, besides Brass in 1864, Lothar Bucher, the
old Democrats and tax objectors, to win its great historical
knowledge, and he handily spring made of service.

Bucher was also acting on behalf of Bismarck's 1865 attempted, Karl
Marx as an employee of the Prussian State Gazette to win, but he
should have the freedom, just you like to write himself propagate
communism.

The methods by which Bismarck now trying to govern, he had abgeguckt
Louis Napoleon, who had masterfully understood the existing class
antagonisms to exploit its system, even under the rule of the
general right to vote.

It soon turned out that Bismarck also sought to explore the labor
movement in its interest against the liberal bourgeoisie exploit. His
helpers in these things was the secret Oberregierungsrat Hermann
Wagener, whose knowledge of social issues and his shrewdness as a
suitable man could appear.

At the end of August 1862 had a working meeting in Berlin also decided
that a general German workers' congress, and to Berlin Councils.
That led the Leipzig Committee, with the leaders of the Berlin
movement in order to an agreement because of the convening of the
Congress to achieve.

They wanted a better geographical location because of Leipzig as
Kongreßort. In early October, came as representatives of the Berlin
Painter and Painter Eichler to Leipzig to a meeting, which I as a
member of the committee attended.

This meeting was held in the Restoration For Joachimstal in Hainstraße
instead. Eichler was equal to the whole. He explained that
the workers of the Progressive Party and the National Association had
nothing to expect. The majority of committee members divided on the
basis of experience gained this view. Next drove Eichler continued:
he had the certainty - and turned it, in our view as an agent
Bismarck - that Bismarck for the introduction of universal, equal
and direct suffrage would have to be prepared and would be the necessary
funds (60000 up to 80,000 crowns) to establish a productive co-operative
missions of mechanical engineers. At that time formed the elite of
the mechanical engineer working in Berlin and were considered the
ultimate bodyguard of the Progressive Party.

The observations Eichler called for a hours-long debate, whose outcome
was that the committee, with the exception Fritzsche themselves
against Eichler said.
Consequently, when Christ descended into hell, by the power of His
Passion He delivered the saints from the penalty whereby they were
excluded from the life of glory, so as to be unable to see God in His
Essence, wherein man's beatitude lies, as stated in the Second Part
(I-II, Q. 3, A. 8). But the holy Fathers were detained in hell for
the reason, that, owing to our first parent's sin, the approach to
the life of glory was not opened. And so when Christ descended into
hell He delivered the holy Fathers from thence. And this is what is
written Zech. 9:11: "Thou also by the blood of Thy testament hast
sent forth Thy prisoners out of the pit, wherein is no water." And
(Col. 2:15) it is written that "despoiling the principalities and
powers," i.e. "of hell, by taking out Isaac and Jacob, and the other
just souls," "He led them," i.e. "He brought them far from this
kingdom of darkness into heaven," as the gloss explains.

Reply Obj. 1: Augustine is speaking there against such as maintained
that the righteous of old were subject to penal sufferings before
Christ's descent into hell. Hence shortly before the passage quoted
he says: "Some add that this benefit was also bestowed upon the
saints of old, that on the Lord's coming into hell they were freed
from their sufferings. But I fail to see how Abraham, into whose
bosom the poor man was received, was ever in such sufferings."
Consequently, when he afterwards adds that "he had not yet discovered
what Christ's descent into hell had brought to the righteous of old,"
this must be understood as to their being freed from penal
sufferings. Yet Christ bestowed something upon them as to their
attaining glory: and in consequence He dispelled the suffering which
they endured through their glory being delayed: still they had great
joy from the very hope thereof, according to John 8:56: "Abraham your
father rejoiced that he might see my day." And therefore he adds: "I
fail to see that He ever departed, according to the beatific presence
of His Godhead," that is, inasmuch as even before Christ's coming
they were happy in hope, although not yet fully happy in fact.

Reply Obj. 2: The holy Fathers while yet living were delivered from
original as well as actual sin through faith in Christ; also from the
penalty of actual sins, but not from the penalty of original sin,
whereby they were excluded from glory, since the price of man's
redemption was not yet paid: just as the faithful are now delivered
by baptism from the penalty of actual sins, and from the penalty of
original sin as to exclusion from glory, yet still remain bound by
the penalty of original sin as to the necessity of dying in the body
because they are renewed in the spirit, but not yet in the flesh,
according to Rom. 8:10: "The body indeed is dead, because of sin; but
the spirit liveth, because of justification."

Still threatened Prussia there is no risk of humiliation, as it holds
in its interior. The overthrow of the war party would be for even
the most beautiful Prussian victory. The danger of Zerstücklung
is precisely through this party all over Germany. In the
south, through its alliance with Italy deutsches Bundesland
threatened.

In the West, it has conjured up the old danger that threatens every
time when Germany is divided.

The German tribes, which the Berlin policy against violence in arms
has set out not against the people in Prussia, not to drag politics
into the Habsburg House Field, the nation wants as little as Austria
Prussia serve.

Clear want it, even masters in their own home. Against their will,
entangled in the current disaster, they should not and will not
follow the same idle wait. As with real patriotic feeling which her
brother angesonnene neutrality in the war itself has shown, it is now
their duty, with full power and unanimous commitment to participation
in the decision to secure their fortunes by _General arming people
and common Volksvertretung_. These two claims immediately and
locate all the activities of the German people to judge, a general
agitation in public meetings people need to be organized quickly.

The German people alone can still save the German fatherland.
Frankfurt, 1 July 1866. The Committee of the Frankfurt National
Assembly, 20 May. IdN: GF Kolb. Aug. Röckel. * * * * * The call was
well intentioned, but it came too late. And what would it only
underlines this, a large, coherent organization, lacked .-- The
day after the transactions mentioned in Frankfurt, on the second
day of Pentecost, I was with a number of gentlemen in Siegmund
Müller on the table is loaded.

After completion of dinner we joined in the wide open window to the
magnificent Maitag enjoy. How to Command, we collected a home
entrepreneurial laughter. From Müller's apartment was on the
Main and the Old Main Bridge, on the white uniforms in their droves
over American soldiers and hinüberspazierten, almost every girl on
the arms.

This sight had our risibility excited. Our host looked at the matter
more seriously, in his High German Frankfurter expressed it: "My
Lord, you hawwe good laugh, all the Mädercher Crouching chin, and
then miss get from town werrn!" A second Lachsalve was our
answer. Shortly afterwards, on 10 June, left the Prussians to the
federal garrison in Frankfurt were marked with "sounding game" the
city, on 11 followed in the same way Oesterreicher.

These never. Even some of the funny boys, in that the Pentecost holiday
cheerful about the Main Bridge withdrew, probably later, with his blood
of the battlefield have fertilized the 10 th .-- June was also the
Standing Committee of the Workers' Associations to a meeting in
Mannheim, to comment on the current political conflict to take.
With the exception of M. Hirsch of the entire committee was present,
as well as invitations to special dispute-Koburg. In the German
question, there was heated controversy. A Prussian member denied that
the people in the Prussian sympathies for Annex ions were present,
in which he, as the follow-taught thoroughly mistaken.

The vast majority of the committee was against the neutrality of the
Central States. From one side it was stressed the Prussian hegemony
of industrial development will be beneficial, on the other
side has denied that the Prussian would be necessary to tip.
Finally, it was unanimously decided to join the existing People's
Party and the Committee of the Frankfurt established program.

It was also recommended that the following compromise amendment to the
program of the People's Party as follows: Every popular government,
the gradual adjustment of class antagonisms so far as to seek support
than any of the protection of individual freedom and the overall
economic interests of the project.

The material and moral uplift of the workers' state is a common
interest of all classes, is an indispensable pillar of bourgeois
freedom. As the political turmoil to the already large unemployment
led, it was agreed to ask the entrepreneurs, the duration of the
Arbeitsstockung a shortening of the happen to be working instead
to dismiss workers, should also state and municipal authorities
began to carry on construction and already planned to execute it.

Unpleasant was the treasury report, no less invidious, what the
dispute over the status of "workers' newspaper had to report. The
ban on the newspaper in Prussia, the political differences in many
associations, the hostility and obstacles to the Booksellers
Association of the leaf's, had to stand very herabgedrückt subscribers,
and the passive resistance, the individual members of the Committee
and its dispute leaf
opposite said, prevented from our side to help.

Controversy was forced, on 8 August re-appearance of the leaf set.

I again submitted reorganization proposals were again rejected,
on the other hand, it was decided that the chairman, a fixed salary
of 200 thalers per year as remuneration for work to be granted.

We also negotiated on the place of the next club day for the Chemnitz
and Gera was in prospect. The course of events forced, however, the
same for 1866 turn out to be. The negotiations were then in a few
hours interrupted by a popular assembly, which deals with the
dominant political interests all operations employed. From now on,
the rash events, and drove to the disaster.

On 9 May, Bismarck dissolved the parliament, through its opposition
is not in its political activities to be disturbed. Unlike "made Prussia
the resources states Landtage On. On 1 Austria in June over the
Schleswig-holsteinsche thing the Bundestag. It was too late the
error understood it, when it is in this matter of Prussia had to
take tow.

Two days later, on 3 June, Prussia said that the step of host
Oesterreichs One contract had lapsed. On 11 June Prussia sprinkled
with military force after the Assembly convened Itzehoe holstein
chen stands. Be admitted on 12 June Oesterreicher Holstein. On the
same day Austria called its envoy from Berlin and presented to the
Prussian envoy in Vienna to his passes.

On 14 June a decision of the parliament against Prussia, as the
Prussian envoy to the draft constitution for a new covenant on the
table laid down by the Bundestag, whose first article reads: The
Federal Republic consists of the states since then, with the
exception of imperial Austria and the Royal Dutch parts of the
country (Luxembourg and Limburg).

So Small Germany. The war was declared. This was contrary to expectations
of many one for Prussia exceptionally favorable course. Within
few weeks, the Austrian army in Bohemia from all their positions
were thrown and the Prussians at the gates of Vienna. The Central
government armies, with the exception of Saxony, in Bohemia
challenged, and Hanover's, after a tough resistance to the Prussians
at length succumbed to Salza, played a dismal role. Their
resistance was broken, and it is not necessary to a real
battle came. In Italy, the war has developed somewhat differently.
Bismarck was initially suspicious that the war against Italy Austria
seriously lead. In a dispatch dated 13 June at the Prussian envoy v.
Usedom recommended he vigorously insist that the Italian government
with the Hungarian Committee agreed to do. The refusal La Marmoras
in Prussia could arouse the suspicion that Italy had no intention
of a serious war against Austria to lead.

He should announce that next week the Prussian hostilities begin. But
a fruitless war in Italy Fort Quadrangle will arouse suspicion.
On 17 June Usedom sent to La Marmora a long despatch in which he
has, on behalf of his Government on the proposals made warfare.
The war must be up to the destruction of the enemy are. Without
regard to the future design of the territories would have both the
War Powers finally, decisively, fully and irrevocably to search.

Italy should not be content, to the northern borders of Veneto
ahead: it must deal with Prussia at the center of the monarchy
itself encounter. To get the permanent possession of the Veneto secure,
it must be the Austrian monarchy into the heart meet. This was the
infamous blow-ins Depesche heart, which, as it became known in 1868,
caused great excitement. Things went differently. Not the
Italians, but the Austrian won. The Italians were landing at the
Battle of Custozza and water in the sea battle of Lissa defeated.
Despite these victories now joined Austria to Napoleon from the
Veneto, not to Italy, because the things in the north of the
monarchy were highly unfavorable.

It hoped to Napoleon's intervention. This new situation led now Bismarck,
despite the great displeasure of the headquarters was also, Austria,
to grant a truce, in Nikolsburg has been completed and its
conclusions, 27 July, it came to Friedenspräliminarien. In the
final peace treaty, concluded in Prague, Prussia received
Schleswig-Holstein, Hanover,
Nassau, and Frankfurt Kurhessen allowed.

Austria itself was a moderate war compensation from it.

Political reasons given Bismarck, Austria lenient treatment.
The southwest German states should form a special covenant.

Venezia Napoleon was ceded to Italy. The fact that Austria ceded
Venetia to Napoleon had said to the German liberals a storm of
indignation show. The fatherland is treason. An indictment, at
least as the Prussians came as Austria. Was concealed, where possible,
that of Prussia with Italy, so abroad, for the destruction of a German
state combined had concealed was that Bismarck in conjunction with
Klapka was taken to Hungary to insurgieren, the result was published
the following exclamation: * * * * * At the Hungarian soldiers! Through
the confidence of my fellow citizens, I assume the supreme command
of the entire Hungarian armed forces, as a leader I am talking to
you. Prussia, and Italy's powerful kings are our allies. From
Italy Garibaldi came hurrying from the Danube her Türr, Bethlen
of Transylvania, in order to liberate the fatherland, from here I
am the brave Hungarian troop into the country.

Louis Kossuth with us will be united as we chase the Austrians,
the good of our country and rob the blood, also. We win back
what is our: Arpád the ground, in the years 1848 and 1849 we
earned eternal fame, and now we wait and the laurel wreath of peace,
if we liberate the fatherland. Forward, then, follow the Hungarian
banner.

Our fatherland is sacred ground for only a few days more, there do I
with you; kommet for home, where mother, sisters and bride you waiting
with open arms. Wählet. Will you stay or wretched prisoners glorious
Fatherland Defenders are? High Long live the fatherland! _Klapka_ Mp,
Hungarian-General. * * * * * Also because you do not want to remember
that from the Prussian headquarters in Bohemia when indenting a
cry "To the inhabitants of the glorious Kingdom of Bohemia "was
published, the agencies included the following:" If we win just
cause, it should perhaps also of Bohemia and Moravia perform the
moment in which they are equal to the national desires Hungary can
achieve.

Let then a cheaper star on their luck ever justify, "It was the old
song by the measurement of double standards. If two do the same, it
is not the same. Prussia committed the greatest baseness - and as a
loyal warfare was possible but the operations in the Czech Republic
and Hungary do not see - they have been excused, indeed justified.
But woe betide his opponents that his examples imitations.

What would you say today, for example, if a foreign power, one day in
the province of Poznan with a similar proclamation to the Poles einrückte
as the Prussians in Bohemia? Treason in the large, in the Austrian
countries benefited included the treason small in Germany. Beginning
August 1866 decided Saxon liberals, led by Professor Biedermann,
Hans Blum, etc. in a State Assembly passed a resolution in
Leipzig, in which it stated: We believe that the German and Saxon
interests are best safeguarded by the incorporation of Saxony
in Prussia. And even more emphatically said Mr v. Treitschke, a
Saxon-born, from, as the editor of the "Prussian Jahrbücher"
Bismarck urged the opposition states - Saxony, Hanover, Kurhessen
- to destroy, "those three dynasties are ripe, overripe earned for
the destruction of their reinstatement would be a danger to the
safety of the new German Confederation, a Versündigung at the
morality of the nation ....

Next to the house of Habsburg prince has no other sex through the
centuries is difficult versündigt to the German nation as the house
.... the Albertine King John is unquestionably the man achtungswerteste
distributed among the German princes, but with a wealth of learned
knowledge, he is an ordinary man remained tight heart, unfranked,
philistine in his verdict on the world and time. The Crown
Prince, a man not without rough good nature, but crude political
insight and each bar has always been a mainstay of the Austrian
party, and the Prince George, whose arrogance and bigotry, even in
the tame Dresden disturb, still less to be expected ....

Above all, we fear a restoration of the Entsittlichung of the people
by the spirit of falsehood, by Gleißnerei a loyalty, which after the
events of the summer at least from the younger sex no longer
cared to be. One male from the scene, such as King John
recoveries in his capital, as the all time Faithful City Dresden
ruin the country with words of gratitude and devotion receives
rautenbekränzte virgins white and green slope in front of the
stained and desecrated crown - indeed, The idea is already nauseous.
"And he concluded:" In days like these should be the heart, which
_Paragraphen Alberti niches of the Penal Code to mißachten_ ....

We do not want a God and the human-facing house returns to the throne.
"Bismarck made sure that his ardent admirers no hair was crooked. In
Article 19 of the Peace Treaty was the King of Saxony assurance" that
none of his subjects or who else the Saxon laws is subject to a due
regard to the relations between Prussia and Saxony during the period
of war perpetrated offense or crime against the person of His
Majesty, or for high treason, treason or state because of his
last political behavior during that time even criminally, police
or disciplinary liability for or in honor of his rights should be
affected. "
Fifthly, in order to complete the work of our salvation: because,
just as for this reason did He endure evil things in dying that He
might deliver us from evil, so was He glorified in rising again in
order to advance us towards good things; according to Rom. 4:25: "He
was delivered up for our sins, and rose again for our justification."

Reply Obj. 1: Although Christ did not fall by sin, yet He fell by
death, because as sin is a fall from righteousness, so death is a
fall from life: hence the words of Mic. 7:8 can be taken as though
spoken by Christ: "Rejoice not thou, my enemy, over me, because I am
fallen: I shall rise again." Likewise, although Christ's body was not
disintegrated by returning to dust, yet the separation of His soul
and body was a kind of disintegration.

Reply Obj. 2: The Godhead was united with Christ's flesh after death
by personal union, but not by natural union; thus the soul is united
with the body as its form, so as to constitute human nature.
Consequently, by the union of the body and soul, the body was
uplifted to a higher condition of nature, but not to a higher
personal state.

Reply Obj. 3: Christ's Passion wrought our salvation, properly
speaking, by removing evils; but the Resurrection did so as the
beginning and exemplar of all good things.
_______________________

SECOND ARTICLE [III, Q. 53, Art. 2]

Whether It Was Fitting for Christ to Rise Again on the Third Day?

Objection 1: It would seem unfitting that Christ should have risen
again on the third day. For the members ought to be in conformity
with their head. The Rhinelanders have not felt as Prussia. A young man
had to be a soldier, it was short: he must Preuss (German platt
"Prüss"). There was even this one crude epithet. I heard even in the
spring of 1869, when I Liebknecht in a political matter in Elberfeld
was that in the restaurant of the hotel where we stayed, a guest
to the other said: "What do because of the Prussian officer here?"

As he on the street an officer saw pass. Elberfeld had then as now,
no garrison. The written opinion was apparently also become familiar
with my father. When he was then in the year 1843 and 1844 after
fifteen years of service as a seriously ill man about a year and a
day in the military hospital had to spend, the death and misery to
his family in mind, he has the mother repeatedly in the strongest
way, asked us after his death boys are not for the military to enter
the orphanage, because the commitment to a subsequent nine years
of service in the army was connected.

The idea that this is the mother of necessity could do, he called
in his illness by the increased arousal from repeated: "are you doing
it yet, I erstech 'the boys before the Company." In his excitement
he overlooked that he is then no longer among the living was. My
father beat the extent the redemption hour, as it in spring
1843 a border post of supervisor was offered for the service he
has long had reported.

He took the post, and so the family moved partly on foot, partly on
the truck sitting in the furniture was - because there was a train
at that time in that area yet - Herzogenrad according to the Belgian
border.

But our staying here was not for long. Nor was the three-month
probationary period to end, so did my father due to the exhausting
night came to a serious disease. Muscle inflammation called it my
mother, I guess it was arthritis, including the tuberculosis compounded.
Since the end of the probationary Not my father not yet out of the
military relationship was fired, we had to seriously ill with the same
man traveling in the same way again back to Cologne. A very heavy piece
for my mother. Arrived in Cologne, was the father in the
military field hospital managed, and we were again in the cellar
Deutzer Casemates, this time back to the moat further instructed. After
dreizehnmonatiger illness the father died, 35 years old without the
parent permission to obtain a pension had. We had shortly after the
death of his father left the casemate, and the mother would
already have been forced, after her hometown of Wetzlar überzusiedeln,
if not the twin brother of his father, August Bebel, the mother and
our assumption.

To better meet this requirement to be able to, he decided, autumn
1844, my mother to marry. This was my step-father in September 1841
due to disability Ganz grace with a salary of two dollars per month
from the service on the 40th Infantry Regiment had been dismissed.
Cause of disability was the loss of the voice command as a result
of a throat inflammation, which later also in tuberculosis
degenerate. He had, after cessation of his position in the regiment
for almost two years as a police corporal in the military hospital
in Mainz acts and had then temporarily replace a station supervisor
at the county-Korrektionsanstalt Brauweiler adopted in Cologne.

His real intention was, at the Post Office to enter into service.
But then there was the postal sector is still in stagnation. Should
a body be filled, it usually had only one previous position
holder die or retire before this was released. Indicative of the
nature of the postal service this time is that when my step-father
in the summer of 1844 after Ostrowo wrote to his brother, he needed
an official authorization for his marriage to obtain, it is based
on the address of the chance in my hands are letter noted: "sender
asks for early delivery."

The appointment letter was then apparently a rare and offending. The
desired position at the Post Office as a letter carrier was my
step-father after several years of waiting finally offered in October
1846 when he was just on the bier was. We moved in late 1844 after
Brauweiler on. My father is now here in the great provincial prison
service certainly the heaviest.

He was, among other things, prison warden of the prisoners who are
there for the work was Häusler, because of misconduct in the
prison have been sentenced to prison. The Institute formed a large
complex of buildings and courtyards and enclosed gardens and land.
All this was with a high wall moved. Men, women and juvenile inmates
were separated.

In order for the house arrest to get where our house was, you had
to walk for several yards, through the heavy locked doors were
separated. The house arrest was therefore of every human isolated
environment. Every once dusk arrived, flew dozens of owls of all
sizes with their Gefauche and Gekrächze around the building and
children chasing us fear one. The stay of these owls was the tower
of the nearby church. Also, this stay was for us children, and
probably also for my parents, not enjoyable. The service of my
father, the clock at 5 am and started until late in the evening
lasted, was a very tiring and a lot of anger linked. The nature
of those prisoners was a cruel treatment. I have more than
once with views that young and older men who were punished extra
hard to join the appalling closing procedure of the knee had to
undergo. Close This Krumm is that the delinquent on the bottom
of the cell to the abdomen had to be. Then he got hand and created
Leg. That was his right hand on his back across to the left
foot and the left hand also on the back of the right foot shackled.
That was not enough, was it a linen-like cloth cord around the body
on the chest and arms on the back of sharply drawn together. So as a
live ball zusammengeschnürt, had the perpetrators Uebel two hours
lying on her stomach to endure. Then his shackles were removed, but
a few hours after the procedure began again. The roar and moaning so
abused durchtönte the entire building and made the course for us
children to a gruesome impression. Here in Brauweiler I have already
visited the autumn of 1844 from only vierundeinhalb years old, the
village school, and while I was in this young age as a "volunteer"
recorded. We returned from the children back, so we had one of the
prison gates to happen, which is a sign guard had to open. One day,
but we
were stiff against surprise when the post opened the door and we
instead of the hitherto unprecedented in the use shako a shining
helmet of a very significant amount on his head, saw enthroned.

These early helmets were compared with their successors in the now
moment, factories and correspondingly difficult.

We recovered from our surprise us and to our amazement, only when
the item zuherrschte us: "Guys, make that you come in or I'll beat
you the door in front of the nose!"

Life for us children in the prison was not very varied . It is played
on the merits of a part within the prison walls. It was also our father,
a man was very strict and it is not lacking in anger, always
irritable, an irritability, by now he came to the outbreak
tuberculosis grew more and more. The mother and we children were
among many to suffer.

More than once had the mother of the father in the arms, if this
excessive arousal in severe corporal punishment to us unfold.
Beatings are the highest outflow educational wisdom, then I must
be a true man's pattern. But what I become I, I was probably in
spite of the beatings.

On the other hand, it was the father onto busy for our well-tried,
because he was nevertheless a kind man he could, for example at
Christmas, Easter or New Year's a pleasure to prepare, so it happened,
as far as the modest resources allowed. And these were very modest.
In addition to free housing (two rooms), heating and lighting
the father received a monthly salary around eight thalers.

Thus, five, later four people live, since my youngest brother, a
handsome building child and the favorite of the father, died in the
summer of 1845. The illness of my father made Among rapid progress.

On 19 October 1846, he died after about two years of marriage. So my
mother was within three years of the second widow and fatherless we
orphans. From this marriage the mother had no right to state support.
Now, nothing remained but to their homeland after Wetzlar überzusiedeln.
Again in early November were the seven things on a cart loaded -
the furniture truck today, there were probably at that time not
yet - and was to travel to Cologne begun. The weather was ugly. It was
cold and rainy. In Cologne, the household on the Rhine under
the open sky on the pavement in order to build from there by ship to
Koblenz and then again by the car Lahntal up to Wetzlar to be
transported. When we clock at 10 pm the ship's cabin on the journey
to Koblenz entered, it was overcrowded with people and there was
a choking smoke tobacco.

Since we have no place did we put two boys were dead tired as we
ourselves close to the door on the floor and slept as only tired
children can sleep. The fifth or sixth day we finally arrived in
Wetzlar, where my grandmother was still married, and four siblings
- three sisters and a brother - my mother lived. Our actual
youth verlebten now here we are.

Wetzlar, a small, romantic city, then had a great elementary school.
First of all, we both came into the arms of school, which is in a
large building, the German house, formerly the German Order of
Knights belonged, was located.

In the large courtyard to this building is left, the one-house,
where Charlotte Buff, the heroine in Goethe's Werther, lived.
The coincidence would have it, I later mehreremal stayed in this
house, as one of my cousins Cicerone for the Charlotte-Buff-room
was. I can also celebrate the centenary of Goethe's birthday
(1849) recall the fountain Wildbacher held woselbst the Goethe Linde
is located. The fountain is since that time Goethe wells. Ten years
later I lived celebration of Schiller's hundredth birthday at the
theater in Salzburg city. After a few years the school with poor
citizens merged school, we students were called now free, the
girls received the house as a German schoolhouse instructed. With
the school and the teachers, I found me in the whole very good, just
not with the cantor, the hold was not me. I was one of the best
students, especially our teachers of geometry, a small beautiful man
who led me to make two extra mates and to us in the mysteries of
mathematics einzuweihen. We learned how to calculate logarithms. In
addition to arithmetic and geometry were my favorite subjects history
and geography. Religion, for which I had no sense - and my mother,
an educated woman and freethinkers, tormented us at home not so - I
only learned because I had to. I was even here in the first place,
but that does not prevent me, especially in the upper Katechumenenstunde
the priest several times gave answers that do not fit into the scheme
and myself Criminal small sermons eintrugen. Furthermore, our upper
pastor is a very honorable man and Frömmling not quite, but,
incidentally, not prevented him one day, right in one night, played
a loose string. In Wetzlar existed at that time the custom, it is
perhaps even today, in the late fall or winter slaughtered geese
a night of Durchfrierung suspend, let the taste of the roast
promote. The goose was so in a respectful level, usually by hanging
before the window. So even at upper priest. But the next morning,
the goose was gone. On the other hand, depended on the following
morning, the neatly abgenagte skeleton of the goose on the
doorstep Glockenzug and attached a card on which stood the beautiful
Verslein: Good morning, Mr. Schwager! Yesterday I was fat and now
I'm skinny! Wetzlar Ganz laughed, because in a small town to talk
about such incidents quickly. I suppose, even the top priest
laughed.

But when I learned diligently, and throughout the skill with standing
at the top, so I stood at the forefront of most loose pranks, the
boys now, the greater freedom of movement, inevitably or even
understand. That put me in "moral" relationship into a nasty
reputation. Specifically, I enjoyed this with our cantor, the
Department of the exterior had to be represented, that is, all of
the evil tricks of the
school were to punish the perpetrators had.

Why he, rather than the rector, came to this role, I do not know.

Perhaps that his seniority or his body, or a plethora customary law
predestined him to do so.

Also, he knew with inimitable grace and very effective to oscillate
the Bakel. Less hurt it when he and his little fat hands us the right
and drove left into the face that there is only so clapped. But
even in such a moment, I could not let the small fat hands to
admire. Haupttummelplätze We were the nearest surroundings of the
cathedral, the old kingdom Kammergericht building, whose large areas
for many years as a restaurateur served Camp, the great castle
ruins Kalsmunt before the city, lots of rocks in the sheaf Heimer
Chaussee - the place home Garbe also has memories of Goethe - in
whose rocks our "forts "built, the old city walls and especially
on a high plateau situated Garbe Heimer waiting from us in the
autumn of our raids in the potato fields went to roast potatoes for
download.

One day we had to give an several siege by a peasant family to endure,
but we are victorious abschlugen. The Streifereien through woods and
fields, especially during the holidays, were innumerable. It was
also the fruit stripping, as we called it, a favorite activity during
summer and autumn, because the environment Wetzlar is a very rich
fruit. The Lahn, a very respectable river, in the summer gave the
desired swimming and in winter the opportunity to skate sports.
At one such occasion it happened that my brother beside me hard
in a frozen hole collapse easily and unambiguously under the ice
and drowning would be advised, he did not unwittingly spread the
arms that held him up.

A buddy and I pulled him out of the water and brought him to a rock
at the sheaf Heimer Chaussee. Here he had to undress, we borrowed him
some clothes from us and then wrestled his clothes, which we in the
unusually warm February sun dried. The mother found out only months
after the accident her second, which was made possible that we
even cleaned our clothes, even went so well there, even patched to
the cracks of the eye of the mother to hide.

The following year, I helped one of my cousins, who was several years
older than I, when a similar opportunity to save the life. This an
excellent ice rider, came one day in the Lahn sausender ride down and
drove to a dam, although it is a result of the mirror naked ice
did not see that before the weir is a broad strip was open water.

Full horror I screamed to him to reverse. He also obeyed. But it was
too late. When he described the alternate sheets, he broke. Convulsions
prison, he finds on the ice, but when he attempted a leg on the same
to bring it broke again. Quickly I pulled a long knitted woolen scarf,
as they were then generally worn by the throat, took a second from
a comrade standing next to me, linked together, and threw one end to
my cousin, which he happily erhaschte. Now we moved it slowly to
solid ice. He was rescued. My worse reputation with our cantor was
gradually so firmly established that he is as obviously presupposes
that I have any devilry, which occurred, was involved. I tried once
before a comrade unjust punishment to protect myself by getting into
the funding for this set, so I was without mercy as a participant and
mitbestraft, even though I was completely uninvolved.

Later, I was in the party, the property at any price to fulfill his
wish, as a joke Meierei angekreidet justice. Often enough, however,
was our cantor legitimate cause me to go into court. So when I
one day, the dark shoots after "celebrity" Following in the red
sandstone steps to the entrance to the cathedral in lapidary letters
my full name, birthplace and birthday eingemeißelt had.

Accordingly Augustine says in a sermon for Easter (ccxlvii) that some
men argue in this fashion: "If it were a body; if what rose from the
sepulchre were what hung upon the tree, how could it enter through
closed doors?" And he answers: "If you understand how, it is no
miracle: where reason fails, faith abounds." And (Tract. cxxi super
Joan.) he says: "Closed doors were no obstacle to the substance of a
Body wherein was the Godhead; for truly He could enter in by doors
not open, in whose Birth His Mother's virginity remained inviolate."
And Gregory says the same in a homily for the octave of Easter (xxvi
in Evang.).

Reply Obj. 2: As stated above (Q. 53, A. 3), Christ rose to the
immortal life of glory. But such is the disposition of a glorified
body that it is spiritual, i.e. subject to the spirit, as the Apostle
says (1 Cor. 15:44). Now in order for the body to be entirely subject
to the spirit, it is necessary for the body's every action to be
subject to the will of the spirit. Again, that an object be seen is
due to the action of the visible object upon the sight, as the
Philosopher shows (De Anima ii). Consequently, whoever has a
glorified body has it in his power to be seen when he so wishes, and
not to be seen when he does not wish it. Not only economic, but also
the political conditions were still very backward. Freedom, freedom
of movement, freedom of establishment, passport and traveling freedom,
association and assembly were demands that the workers of that era
were much closer than the productive associations, founded with
government assistance, of which he is not the right idea could make.
The Association, or shall we say The cooperative idea was only
in its formative stages. Even the general voting seemed most
essential right not to be. Once, as repeatedly emphasized, the
political education remains low, but then appeared to the great
majority of the struggle of the Prussian House of Representatives
against the Ministry of Bismarck as a brave deed, the support and
applause, but no blame and no reduction in earning.

Who was politically lively as I devoured the board negotiations and
looked at it as a result of political wisdom. The liberal press, the
public opinion was far more controlled than it is today, also
ensured that this belief was maintained. The liberal press, it was
now, with a fury and Hohngeschrei on Lassalle herfiel occurrence, as
it previously was probably unheard of. The personal suspicions and
reductions rained down on him, and that it preferably conservative
institutions, such as the "Cross newspaper," were the Lassalle treated
objectively - because they have to fight against liberalism was
unbelievably located -, increased the credit and Lassalle his followers
in our eyes. When we finally remember that even today, after a
more than-five-intensive intelligence work, yet millions of workers
there, the various bourgeois parties running, you will not be surprised
that the vast majority of workers of the sixties of the new
movement skeptical response. And at that time were no socio-political
success, which only much later,
thanks to the socialist movement has been made.

Pioneers are always just a few.

In Leipzig Committee had Lassalle occurrence the effect that this
is split equally and the Forward Association, the mainstay of the
committee was.

Professor Roßmäßler, iron foundry owner Götz, a brother of Turner
Götz in Leipzig-Lindenau, Dolge and a larger number of workers in the
club declared itself against Lassalle. Fritzsche, Vahlteich and Dr.
Dammer with a minority behind them were the actual makers of the
new movement.

In Leipzig there was still relatively the same at most of the Annex,
Berlin failed in the long run almost completely out. Ground found
it gradually in Hamburg-Altona, from where they are to Schleswig-Holstein
expanded, then in Hanover, Kassel, Barmen-Elberfeld, Solingen,
Ronsdorf, Dusseldorf, Frankfurt, Mainz, in some cities of Thuringia,
Erfurt and how Apolda , apart from Leipzig in Saxony in Dresden,
where the chairman of the Dresdener Workers Education Association
Först Erling, with a small band of followers joined in early 1864
Lassalle, and also in Augsburg.

But it was spread, as I said, a gradual and weak and accounted for very
little hopes which Lassalle and his followers saw. The hundred thousand
members, which he in the response letter in which he proposed establishing
General German Workers' Association as a major political power
installations, hoping he does not also time to see. It has known
for a long time, before the socialist movement on the number of
organized supporters could count.

Towards the end of March, the Leipzig Committee in a large assembly
worker from his position and requested that a new committee to choose
the foundation of Lassalle proposed general German Workers' Association
should operate. After a very heated debate, said the majority of
the Assembly for this plan. Dr.

Dammer, Fritzsche and Vahlteich been with the new task. On 16 April,
Lassalle himself finally to Leipzig, in a large meeting to talk
about, like most large gatherings of that time in the Odeon in
Magpie Road was held.

The speech is entitled "The Workers Question" appeared. The Assembly
was about 4000 people attended, of which, however, a significant
part of the same conclusions before leaving the restaurant. The
Liberals were led by a businessman Kohnen at the rostrum facing gallery
posted and interrupted the speakers by more heckling. Preparations
for the speaker were a bit peculiar. The edge of the lectern, from
which Lassalle said, was with books, including heavy tomes, packed
as it should be an à la disputation Luther counterproductive Eck
come. Lassalle seems to have believed that he had a serious
opposition will find that he rebut needed, which was not the case. His
personal appearance was not all likeable. High, slender, but powerful
figure stood Lassalle very challenging at the lectern, where he soon
became a more often, and soon both hands into the armholes of his
waistcoat stuck. He spoke fluent, sometimes pathetic, but it seemed
to me as he comes easy with the tongue on. He ended with stormy
applause of a large portion of the meeting, which the other replied
with a hiss. After Roßmäßler Professor Lassalle took the floor and
leave a long statement in which he said: he knew that he had no
majority in this Chamber to have his views but he hoped that more
insight will come.

He protest against the attacks, which Lassalle against the German
Progressive Party had been filed, he continued to protest against
the effort, the workers and the Progressive Party to be separated and
a special Labor Party to form. Lassalle answered briefly and remarkably
accommodating. He said that it seemed the differences between
him and Roßmäßler more tactical than fundamental nature. It was
apparently in stock Lassalleschen still hoping to be able to Roßmäßler
herüberziehen. Moreover, Fritzsche and Vahlteich warm admirer Roßmäßler
because of the struggle against the church, and he led Pfaffentum.
Both belonged Roßmäßler with the German-Catholic community, which
existed in Leipzig, the two did the separation of Roßmäßler hurt.
Lassalle was not enough of the crowd applauded, he laid great
emphasis on men of reputation and influence of the bourgeois camp
on its side to have, and he tried hard, to win those. well met in
Leipzig Professor Wuttke at his side, but with his other political
position was not easy to reconcile.

Wuttke was big German, with a strong passion for Austria. As such,
he was also a member of Parliament in Frankfurt aM been. He and
Roßmäßler were political and personal enemies. Wuttke was also fierce
opponents of the small German Progressive Party and the National
Association - two organizations whose members almost one and the
same group of people formed. Since Lassalle against the Progressive
Party was experiencing, he found Wuttke liveliest applause. A deeper
understanding of social Wuttke did not, incidentally, was a brilliant
speaker and had a beautiful body. The small, gebückte, black
shape had something Gnome Matters. The letter to Lassalle
Wuttke, in the aforementioned Leipzig Assembly came to read, confirmed
my opinion of Wuttke position. Undoubtedly also Lassalle Wuttke
correctly, but it was sufficient for him that Wuttke apparently stood
on his side. I notice here, I do not write history of the overall
movement, but just sinking into my personal experiences and relationships
in the same. Those who are familiar with the history of the overall
movement to make, I refer to the Mehring history of German social
democracy and Bernstein's story of the Berlin workers' movement. *
* * * * With the emergence of Lassalle and the founding of the General
German Workers' Association, on 23 May 1863 took place in Leipzig, was
the signal for bitter struggles within the working world, which
from now on, during a whole series of years and played in the
scenes which often occurred, the description of each mock.

The bitterness grew with the years on both sides, and because
workers are not accustomed to the Salonton are - the way, which failed,
proud to be on the same care as soon as they among themselves in
strong disagreement advised - it flew the rough rudeness and accusations
over and over. Not infrequently, however it came to fights and
violence in the assemblies, in which both opponents aufeinanderplatzten
As a result, more often that the hosts their halls for meetings
refused. A major aspiration of every page was in the assemblies,
the pipe in hand to get
it started so in most cases the battle for the presidency.

When I once in a Chemnitzer Assembly workers discovered that the
Lassalleaner order to gain a majority, both hands in the amount
raised, I called on it should now both parties both hands in the
air lift.

In great jubilation, the proposal was adopted.

Now the subject Lassalleaner. The only advantage of this fighting
was of opinion that both parties made the greatest effort, to
multiply its Annex. That certainly happened, as some years later, the
page which I belonged, is also converted to socialism, but created
their own organizations and their struggles against the General
German Workers' Association has led, which from 1867 on strong in
two equal fractions separated.

But power, money and time were in that, almost a decade of mutual
combat in ways unheard wasted, to the delight of their opponents.
In Leipzig, the advent of Lassalleanismus the effect that the old
differences between the Industrial Education Association and
the Association forward and disappeared finally in February 1865
an association under the name Workers Education Association has
been achieved.

Polytechnische The company had long been the paternalism of the
Industrial Education Association abandoned, which is proved
to be a Sisyphean task. Moreover, also acknowledged the Saxon
government, that with the old Bundestag decision of 1856 no longer
do it willy-nilly, let the reins grind.

But even had the General German Workers Association chose Leipzig
as the seat, although the trend is obvious with the Bundestag decision
was in contradiction.

The government finally withdrew the consequences and stated on
20 March 1864 Bundestag decision for those repealed. It is an
experience that we have often made that all laws and
Unterdrückungsmaßregeln, a motion to suppress or hintanhalten be
broken and its effectiveness is overcome as soon as the movement
itself as naturnotwendig and therefore considered insurmountable
out. The authorities finally lose faith in themselves and their power
to become hopeless battle. So it was at that time also with
the provisions vereinsgesetzlichen in Saxony, it was soon working
with the coalition Forbidden in Prussia and other states that
simply no longer respected. The wage struggles through work settings
began, all the coalition in spite of prohibitions, even during the
show Men in the Government advised that: if you completely remove
these prohibitions, or how far they should cancel.

The same experience was later the German social democracy under the
rule of the Socialist Law, under which the authorities
eventually it had been impossible view, the assembly and organization
prohibitions and the repression of the leaves and literature in the
same manner as in the first years under the Socialist Law had
happened. The same experience later, the women's movement in those
German states made in which it was forbidden to women, in
political associations to organize or participate in political club
meetings. Practically, these bans have long been overcome before we
are by the government finally decided by the law to sanction what
is actually happening already, the former in spite of prohibition
existed. Laws always lag behind the needs Dreiner, they never come
this before. In Leipzig Workers' Educational Association, I was made
necessary in the constitution for the second elected chairman, a
position which I have in recent times in the Industrial Education
Association began. And as the first chairman Dr. Reyher - a disciple
of Professor Bocks - soon resign presented, I put in its place, a
position that I until 1872, held in what year my fortress imprisonment
applies had, me to prepare for alleged high treason against the
German Reich had been granted.

The Workers Educational Association from 1865, received from an
annual urban support of 500 thalers, which he mainly Ermietung for
better locations and maintaining the teaching has been granted. But
in the next few years the club, the chairman of his political Mauserung
below, also more and more to the left abschwenkte was the same
representation of the urban initially reduced to 200 thalers. And
when the club in 1869 for the program to the newly created Eisenach
Socialist Workers Party of Germany said that a decision which,
according to a speech battle, the three took in evenings, with a large
majority has been taken, he lost in the next few years the
rest of the subsidy .

Liberalism supports only politically brave and obedient children,
because the educational purposes of the club had under its political
transformation is not in the least suffering. Vereinstag The German
Workers' Associations. The number of workers' associations was
notably in Saxony has become considerably. Besides we worked in
Leipzig Motteler Julius, which I at the 1863 celebration of the
Foundation Gewerblichen Education Association met in Leipzig, and
Wilhelm Stolle in Crimmitschau, coppersmith Först Erling before he
transferred to the Lassalleanern and Knöfel A. Schuhmacher in
Dresden, Weber Pils in Frankenberg , the Weber and Franz Lippold in
Glauchau, Buchbinder Werner Lichtenstein Call Berg, Weber bean in
Hohenstein-Ernstthal, etc. in the creation of workers' associations.
Our effectiveness, we also expanded from Thuringia.

At the bottom of the Ore Mountains were under active population
and Weber dozens of Arbeiterlesevereinen been established in which
a lively intellectual life there. Similar phenomena were also in the
rest of Germany. Notably, in Württemberg, a large number of
workers' associations, who as early as 1865 to a Gauverband together
and soon thereafter joined a private institution called into life. Even
in Baden and the Kingdom of Hanover were many workers clubs, most
education associations, to life.

The Rührigkeit and unity, with the other, the Lassalleaner worked,
also called on the other side the need for concentration indicated.

This merger was only a loose, because a common objective, as the
Lassalleaner had for it with enthusiasm and sacrifice struggled,
missing the clubs.

The only one in which we agreed, was the opposition Lassalleaner, and
that no policy is supposedly in the clubs wanted to drive. But,
in fact, examined the heads of most of these clubs or their backers
the association to which they had influence, for their party
politics to win.

These clubs were all the nuances of the bourgeois parties of the time
represented. From Democrat to Republican right below Nationalvereinler
from their mid-later (1867), the National Liberal Party was formed.
However, dissolved itself in 1865 the radical, high-minded elements
of the German National Association going to form the Democratic People's
Party, whose body appears in Mannheim "German weekly paper" was.
Vertrug Meanwhile we in the clubs so well it went.

The political situation still urged to no clear decision, because the
constitutional struggle against the Ministry of Bismarck in Prussia
made a closed combination needed. The German Reform Association, which
is in contrast to the National Association was formed and for the
overall maintenance of Austria entered the German Reich, was a
conglomeration of South German and Austrian-particularist elements
with strong ultramontanem impact. This was for the labor movement
no meaning. His advocacy of the Austrian reform, mainly in the German
parliament has pulled out of the councils of the individual
states should be chosen, aroused no sympathy.

On a clear opinion in the German question arose incidentally in the
workers' associations are not, nor in the Schleswig-Holstein question
chen to the 1864, started to become very topical.

The labor movement was also in western Germany, particularly in Maingau,
soil taken . In Frankfurt there was occasionally a worker's club
tags, the Frankfurter Workers Education Association, 29 May 1862,
was convened to sharp disputes over the political status of
workers. Here came the lawyer JBV Schweitzer - who later plays a
major role in the movement played - for a particular political
organization of workers that apparently under the influence of
Lassalle Talk: On the particular context of the current period of
history with the idea of state workers. Since then listened Maingau
also in the struggle not to think. The appearance of Lassalle reply
stoked the fire. In Frankfurt, now also made Bernhard Becker's
comments, I foresee a series years later and assessed moderately vain
people know, who is also awkward in the speech was. The attempt,
on a Labor in Rödelheim - 19. April 1863 - on which Professor Louis
Büchner a lecture on Lassalle program was to make a statement
against Lassalle enforce unsuccessful. Conversely Lassalle himself
appeared on 17 May in Frankfurt aM in order to defend his cause.
Schulze-Delitzsch, who also was invited, excused his absence by
inundation with shops. He did well in it. As I later Schulze-Delitzsch
personally acquainted, he would Lassalle compared in all respects
inferior. Sonnemann, Lassalle said before, had this fate. The answer
to those processes in Maingau was an exclamation, dated May 19,
through which the German workers' associations at a Vereinstag to
Frankfurt aM for 7 June 1863 were invited.

The call was signed by the Central Committee of the Workers Maingaus,
the workers' clubs of Berlin, Kassel, Nuremberg and Chemnitz and
the craftsman club Dusseldorf. The call was the Leipzig Central
Committee, the debt attached, the convening of a Congress worker
in the long run also impossible to have made.

The movement itself is but "such an important and fruitful so
far thought of importance for a peaceful, happy development
of the welfare of our entire nation and fatherland basis that they
Mißgriff by the individual in their health history should never
be disturbed. It is the duty all that the thing itself is at the
heart, with all their might to prevent that is not the end of a
single fault by misguided attempt at the beginning of a disastrous
division and fragmentation of the whole movement will be.

"This division, however, was already there, and it was I later recognized
as a historical necessity.
Since, then, Christ rose by a glorious Resurrection, consequently His
Resurrection was not manifested to everyone, but to some, by whose
testimony it could be brought to the knowledge of others.

Reply Obj. 1: Christ's Passion was consummated in a body that still
had a passible nature, which is known to all by general laws:
consequently His Passion could be directly manifested to all. But the
Resurrection was accomplished "through the glory of the Father," as
the Apostle says (Rom. 6:4). Therefore it was manifested directly to
some, but not to all.

But that a public penance is imposed upon public sinners, is to be
understood of the punishment of this present life. And in like manner
public merits should be rewarded in public, in order that others may
be stirred to emulation. But the punishments and rewards of the
future life are not publicly manifested to all, but to those
specially who are preordained thereto by God.

Reply Obj. 2: Just as Christ's Resurrection is for the common
salvation of all, so it came to the knowledge of all; yet not so that
it was directly manifested to all, but only to some, through whose
testimony it could be brought to the knowledge of all.

Reply Obj. 3: A woman is not to be allowed to teach publicly in
church; but she may be permitted to give familiar instruction to some
privately. And therefore as Ambrose says on Luke 24:22, "a woman is
sent to them who are of her household," but not to the people to bear
witness to the Resurrection. But Christ appeared to the woman first,
for this reason, that as a woman was the first to bring the source of
death to man, so she might be the first to announce the dawn of
Christ's glorious Resurrection. Hence Cyril says on John 20:17:
"Woman who formerly was the minister of death, is the first to see
and proclaim the adorable mystery of the Resurrection: thus womankind
has procured absolution from ignominy, and removal of the curse."
Hereby, moreover, it is shown, so far as the state of glory is
concerned, that the female sex shall suffer no hurt; but if women
burn with greater charity, they shall also attain greater glory from
the Divine vision: because the women whose love for our Lord was more
persistent--so much so that "when even the disciples withdrew" from
the sepulchre "they did not depart" [*Gregory, Hom. xxv in
Evang.]Already, she had several days between fear and
hope abgeängstet, and often called them to the dwarfs, on the guard
tower was: "Kleinhänsel, look out!

What rushes through the forest?

What trappelt in the valley? Where whirls the dust? Wackermann
trotted on?

"But even dreary Kleinhänsel replied: 'Nothing is stirring in the
forest, not riding in the valley, it swirls no dust, no plume is
blowing." That drove them up into the night, as the evening star
heraufzog and the glowing full moon through the eastern mountains
looked. Because she could not stand between the four walls of her
chamber, she threw her Regentuch on, stole in through the gate
in the beech and walked to her favorite spot, the crystal fountain,
to the undisturbed kummer their full thoughts nachzuhängen.

My eyes flowed from Zähren, and her soft mouth opened to melodic
Lament, which deals with the noise of the mixed stream, the
fountain of her through the grass lispelte. [Illustration] As they
are approaching the cave, it's as if a slight shadow floating around
the entrance, but because it's in her heart was working so, watch
it little attention and the first sight pushed her against the
fleeting thought that the incident moon light her a Truggestalt
vorlüge.

As they came closer, it seemed that the white form and to stimulate her
with his hand to wave. It was it a horror, but most do not
withdraw it hours to really see what it would be. The myth of the
mermaids wells in the area umlief was not unconsciously.

They recognized the white woman now for the nymph of the fountain and
its appearance seemed to indicate an important Familienbegebenheit.
What you thought was now closer than that of her husband • You
zerraufte their hair schwarzgelocktes and raised a loud complaint:
"Oh, the unhappy day! Wackermann!

Wackermann! You're like, are cold and dead! Did Wittib made for me and
your children orphans, "Because they are sued and the hands rang, she
heard a gentle voice from the cave," Mathilde, was without fear, I
proclaim to you no accident, close to you safely, I am your girlfriend
and me to treat you to Kosen. "The noble woman was so little warning
in the form of speech and of the mermaid that she had the courage to
accept this invitation, they went into the cave, the nursing
homes offered her hand, and friendly they kissed on the
forehead, sat to her confidential and took out the word: "Be greeted
me in my apartment, you mortals love, your heart is pure and louder
as the water of my fountain, so you are the invisible powers
tilted.

Reply Obj. 2: Christ's Ascension as to its term wherefrom, was not
above men's common knowledge, but only as to its term whereunto.
This largely revolves around money issues, and you will soon discover
that everything Diktatorentum ends. Indes, which is always the fault
of the organization, they may perhaps rational practice more or less
extirpated. I am ready to serve as secretary of the international
mediator between you and the majority of Nuremberg, which is directly
connected to the International has to play - on rational basis is. I
have therefore written to Leipzig. I ignored the difficulties of
your position and never forget that each of us more of the circumstances
as a dependent on his will.

I promise you under all circumstances, the impartiality, which is my
duty. Other hand, I can not promise that I will one day as a private
writers - as soon
as I find it absolutely by the interest of the workers' movement
dictated think - open criticism of the superstitious practice
Lassalleschen will, as I was in the Proudhonschen have done.

As I personally my best wishes for you to assure your devoted K.

Marx. "The organization created Schweitzer watched but not for
long.

Predictably, soon made some independence aspirations of the workers in
question felt. Schweitzer joined in this" social democrat
"from September 15, 1869 decided contrary: it is aiming the Working
Association of German workers' association to separate and
self-management as possible; warn him. Three months later he went
further. In No. 152 of the "social democrat", he announced at the
December 29, that by the various sides expressed wishes to take
over the various unions in a single general union to merge.

He had accordingly prepared a draft, which he published in the same
number. Previously Fritzsche already had from the General German
Workers' Association and Association of Working losgesagt and his
office as the first vice-president resigned. Also had losgesagt Louis
Schweitzer of Schumann, President of the German shoemaker Association,
Bork, president of the German General Wood Workers Association, and
Schober, president of the German General Schneider club.

The General Assembly of the General German Workers Association, the
beginning of January 1870 in Berlin met, Schweitzer's request came
forward and decided that the union until July 1 to merge and that a
new association should be founded under the name General German Trade
Union Association. Immediately after the General Assembly of the
General German Workers' Association found that of the German
workers' association instead. The majority of the delegates also
agreed on Schweitzer's proposal.

Lübkert, President of the General German carpenter Association, said
the unions were but basically nothing more than a nursery for the
political use of the workers. Zilowsky was also responsible for the
merger so that the President will thrill of the past, mostly to the
fragmentation in many unions fault. Hartmann, Meyer Sound and father
also spoke from Hamburg for the merger, for similar reasons as
the previous speaker. The delegates agreed to the merger, the 12,500
votes, against such , 9000, the voices behind it were. statuten
Although the regular two-thirds majority for the resolution of the
association was not present, it was nevertheless decided that a new
association, the name of the General German Workers' Association
should receive support, on July 1 instead of the workers come to
life to leave.

That decision was supported by a number of workers not followed up.
After all, was the opposition against the trade union
organizations under one of the most influential members of the
General German Workers' Association, so that even at its 1872 General
Assembly Tölcke the motion that: The Assembly should decide, all
within the party next to the General German Workers Association
existing compounds, including the General German Workers' Support
Association, the Berlin Workers Confederation, the General German
bricklayer Verein, the German General Carpentry Association and all
belonging to the same memberships were dissolved, their stocks to
the General German Workers' Association and einzuverleiben should
the members of the General German Workers' Association to join.

His claim could not be adopted because the General Assembly had no
power outside of the General German Workers Association dissolve
existing organizations. As well as some other leaders as Tölcke
thought, for example, show the expression of Hasenclever: "If the
federal government (Berliner Workers Confederation) has fulfilled
its purpose, then of course we have to ensure that it disappears."
Hasselmann said: "We have, therefore, only the federal government
established to these trades to us drag and drop, what we also have
succeeded quite well. So we have with the league want to create
nothing special, it was only a means to an end." Grottkau like
languages, and others. Finally, the following application: "The General
Assembly may wish to commend the desire that as soon as possible
within our party connections existing union dissolved and the members
of the General German Workers' Association to be. It is the duty of
the members of the General German Workers' Association, in this
sense to act.

"Mende Can we trust - and his indication is to my knowledge has
remained unchallenged - it also had to Schweitzer Mende and the Countess
Hatzfeldt when completed in spring 1869 pact - I come later - promised
that the trade union organization regarded as inconsistent with
Lassalle views as more and more into the background for you. Later
changed the views of the General German Workers' Association in favor
of unions. * * * * * The suburban Leipzig from Nuremberg Vereinstag
assigned task, we came to and designed a normal statute for
cooperatives unions, whose authorship I zufiel.

Once that was finished, it went in masses of the organizations with a
request for the establishment of international trade union co-operatives
- the title we had chosen - to be active. I myself presented
with a hand on. The title was actually a bit far, but because we
could only be expected, the German-speaking countries in the
Organization to draw. The main thing should be called the tendency
to be expressed.

It also came as a number of established organizations such as the
International Trade Union Cooperative factory, factory and manual, the
masons and carpenters, metal workers, wood workers, the tailor,
furrier and cap maker, the shoemaker, the bookbinders, the mountain
- and lodge workers. It was clear that, if the political movement under
the division suffered from the trade union movement in much greater
use had to suffer. The Fritzsche got in the following year on own body
to feel the result of fierce party struggles of his association's
membership of about 9000 members to over 2000 fell slightly. However,
in this part of the fall of the Berlin bankruptcy and the Leipzig
production cooperatives blame the tobacco workers, lost after a strike
had been founded. We in Leipzig studied the Zerwürfnissen in the union
movement as possible to prevent. We "made at the end of October
1868 in association with members of the General German Workers'
Association visited a heavily working meeting with the agenda: The
trade union co-operatives, in a lecture Liebknecht and recommended
the following resolution:" Considering that the establishment of
cooperative unions in accordance with the model of the English Trades
Unions behufs organizing the working class in order to safeguard
and promote their interests and to reinforce their class consciousness
is necessary, considering also that the decisions of the various
workers' congresses in the stimulation and the beginning of the
formation of cooperative unions has been made, today's workers
decides Assembly, energetic approach to the formation of such
cooperatives, and instructs you to use this committee to be elected,
the necessary steps to be done, especially with the administration
of workers' funds, etc. in connection to occur.

"There was then a committee elected by the General German Workers'
Association among others Seyferth and Taut Liebknecht and beside me
sat. The committee invited members of all trades, to those with the
organization of trade unions to discuss. This meeting was held under
my chairmanship and was following by Liebknecht and I drafted resolution
was adopted unanimously: "The Assembly decides: The majority of the
Nuremberg Workers Club tags and the majority of the workers' congress
in Berlin, founded or co-operatives set up trade unions have to
work towards: 1 that both sides after mutual agreement on a joint
General Assembly Behuf the merger agreement and will be appointed;
2 that until an agreement and the merger agreement, the mutual trade
unions in a contractual relationship with each other, in particular
with its cash to support each and perhaps a common temporary Select
Committee, 3 that the two parts under all circumstances, every
community with the Hirsch-Duncker unions Chen reject cooperatives,
which, by enemies of the workers donated, have no other purpose
than the organization of workers to thwart the workers and the
bourgeoisie to tools herabzuwürdigen.

"This request was on the other hand, no comity. In No. 141 of the
"Social Democrat" of 2 Schweitzer published in December 1868 a
resolution stating that the Bureau and the Central Committee of the
General Association of German workers had rejected our requests and
asking, "any attempt, the Movement for the personal use of individual
to be fragmenting, with particular emphasis precluded." This
was an attempt to to reach an understanding until further notice lapsed.
The union question was on our return to the Eisenacher Congress in
August 1869 for discussion. They disapproved of, in particular,
that the inclusion of members of a political creed would be made
subject, like that of Schweitzer was required. Greulich called for an
international organization, it applies to the masses in the unions to
bring. Before this, the capitalists fear, not from our few miserable
pfennigs. Most recently, at the request of York passed a resolution
in favor of the unification of the unions accepted. An application
Mottelers, which demanded that the unions of the completion of
reinsurance (cartels) to operate, there was also agreement. At the
party congress at Stuttgart - June 1870 - was once the union is
on the agenda. The negotiations are moving in the old track. The
question of unification again played the leading role. From 1871 began
from the unions, under the favor of Prosperitätsepoche be better
to develop and became independent on. The Prosperitätsepoche, up to
the beginning of 1874 lasted, had an untold number of work settings
in all sectors in the aftermath. This phenomenon has led at the end
of May 1871 the Social Workers Association in Leipzig, after
prolonged discussion, the following resolutions to adopt and publish:
"1 The fact that only one work settings of palliative resources are
required for the _Dauer_ not help, 2 that the goal of social democracy
is not just to go, within the current production to higher wages
desirable, but the capitalist production process ever be abolished, 3
that in today's bourgeois way of producing the amount of wages
is determined by supply and demand and also by the most successful
strikes on this level are not always emporgehoben can be, and 4
that in several strikes recently demonstrated by the manufacturers
have been organized to provide a plausible reason for the increase
in commodity prices during the fair, and that such strikes are not
the workers, but only to benefit manufacturers, which the price of
goods more unequally than the increase of wages; 5 accident that
strikes the manufacturers and encourage the discouraged workers -
that is, double our party damage; 6 that the major manufacturers
sometimes even an extra advantage of the strike, by, while the small
manufacturers do not work read their stocks with higher profit down;
7 moment that our party is unable to so many strikes, material
support.

For all these reasons, the party members strongly recommended that
a strike can only be started when a local business need exists and
we have the necessary resources can also: not so random to proceed
as before, but the whole of Germany for a comprehensive organization
chart.

The best way of funding and organization to obtain, is the creation
and maintenance of the cooperative unions recommended ".

In Vienna was the central organ of the Austrian party comrades, the"
People's Will ", in other considerations and advice, because even
there the strike fever is always more to get attacked. The advice
was good, but they have been followed in the rarest cases. After all
those years participated in the trade unions have a positive development.
In mid-June 1872 in Erfurt became a trade union congress together,
notably on the question of a central management for the trade unions
(Union) and the creation of a special trade union body was discussed.

In an article that I am on 8 June in the "People's State" published,
I developed my program for the Congress and spread me on the best in
my opinion kind of a connection among the unions themselves. I
led, among other things: It could not be denied that the union
movement in Germany is quite amiss. Debt is the division of
workers into different factions who fought over the bitterest.

Whether it's bad when the workers in different socio-political
organizations gegenüberstünden, so it is certainly bad when the
workers of the individual trades in each factory, and even in each
workshop is divided gegenüberstünden. And not because of the
principle, but because of the organizational form, which is
mutable and had to adapt to the conditions needed. This is the curse
under which the movement suffers. It is also sad that the masses
are exploited by unscrupulous people could fanatisieren, which
proves that a part of the workers to suffer limitations.

Man spöttele on the ossification of Christianity, but it would nevertheless
eighteen centuries behind him had, so an age, which was pleased to
ossify.

But the recent social movement was only ten years old, and already
evident in her Verknöcherungssymptome. While this would overcome,
but, to prevent the development .... _In The co-operative unions
based the future of the working class, she was there, in which the
masses would come to class consciousness, the struggle with the power
of capital and thus learned to lead, naturally, to the Socialist
Workers machten_. Then, I detail my organization proposals apart.
Erfurter On the Trade Union Congress, at which six trade union
organizations of the factory and factory workers, metal workers,
wood workers, the tailor, the shoemaker, the mason, and various
specialist clubs were represented, was a union and the union publication
of a trade union body, "The Union", adopted. At the request of
York following resolution was unanimously adopted: "In considering
the financial power that all workers, whether they are conservative,
progressive, liberal or Social Democrats, just very depressed and
exploits, the Congress declared it the most sacred duty of the
workers, all Hader party to set aside, _um on the neutral ground
of a single Gewerkschaftsorganisation_ the precondition of a
successful strong resistance to the threatened existence, and to
improve their class position to win.

In particular, however, the various factions of the Socialist Workers
Party, the trade union movement must work hard to promote Congress
and speaks his regret that the General Assembly of the General German
Workers' Association (in Berlin) a contrary decision. "When I was
after a long fortress and prison in the spring of 1875 was released,
made me August Geib's proposal to York office of the good,
unfortunately, in the night on New Year's Day 1875 had died, the
editorial staff of the central trade union paper "The Union"
to take over. He noted 50 crowns monthly salary in prospect.

Party and trade unions were now financially stronger. Geib said that
I could very well the editor next to my business take over. I refused.
I was next to impossible for my business and my work for
the party even permanent unionized activities. Meanwhile, the
Prussian government and against the social democratic parties
as against the persecution of trade unions. The prosecutor
Tessendorf, focusing on this area in Magdeburg deserves the spores
had been to Berlin in 1874 were appointed to do this on a larger
scale, the persecution continued.

Tessendorf corresponded to the expectations in him. He reached his
accusations by not only the oppression of the party organizations,
including several unions fell victim to these. Then came the 1878
assassination of the Socialist Law, and now has been destroyed
in a day, which in more than ten years of work under immense sacrifices
of time, money, power and health was created. FOOTNOTES: [9]
Here Marx made the following aside: " In the statutes of the International
Workers Association figured even a president of the association.
He had in fact never had a function other than the meetings of the
General Council to preside. At my suggestion we made in 1867 to describe
the dignity that I 1866 ausschlug, whole and replaced them with a
chairman, who each week meeting of the General
Council is elected.

The London Trades Council also has a chairman.

His standing is only the official secretary, because it is a continuous
business function performed.

"Thus the" dictator "of the International. For my part I must conclude
that Marx and Engels in their correspondence with me because otherwise
never have demonstrated as an adviser, and her Council was in several
very important cases are not followed, because I made the situation
of things better insight excessive.

Serious differences, I have never had with them. AB My first conviction.
The abuse and favoritism, which the Government of the Queen
Isabella of Spain was indented, the opposition parties united to a
violent collection, the Escape Isabellas - End of September 1868
- had to follow.

The indecision with which the leaders of the opposition parties
composite provisional government the question of the new form of
government treated, has led the democracy of the various countries
in resolutions and addresses to the Spanish nation, the
founding of the Republic to be recommended. Of course, we still
believe the rest have to do to the Spaniards and the founding of a
Socialist Republic of advice to be, not less than all of the
conditions missing.

Of the more than sixty thousand members, according to the newspaper,
the News International should have, were probably more than fifty
thousand is not even on paper, they were a product of the imagination.

It was the period of excesses, including the benefit of the
International came. Hearing the bourgeois newspapers, so had the
International million members in Europe and, accordingly, its enormous
financial resources. The good people fell in fear and terror, he
read in his newspaper, the Treasurer of the International just
need the big money to open the cupboard to strike for each million
to have. I myself was one evening, eye and ear witness, as Prince
Smith, to me at a convivial gathering in the Berlin Press Association
gegenübersaß, confidentially told his neighbor: he had a letter
today from Brussels given that the General Council of the International
for the strike of the coal in the graves Borinage (Belgium) two
million francs was made available. I had trouble, the laughter and
to enter. The General would have been glad if he Centimes equal
two million twenty thousand francs in the cashier had. The General
had a great moral influence, but money was always his weakest side.
This exaggeration of the power of the International fell a few
years later after the uprising of the Commune also a victim of
Bismarck. He wanted an international conference to combat The international
event, taking him by the Austrian Chancellor, Lord v. Beust, willingly
went to the hand, though, by the confession of the International
Austria was not considered.

The implementation of the beautiful plan thwarted the British Government.
And not just Bismarck, so also a skilled diplomat and negotiator as
Colonel v. Bernhardi settled on the international bear the greatest
untying. Thus, he shares in "From the Life of Theodore Bernhardi"
the report with one of his stewards, which states: "Above all, the
socialist Wühlereien of London and Geneva from zealously continued
to revolutionize the whole of Europe, namely, not merely a political
but also a social revolutionary cause. They are supported by the
Comités internationaux both in London and in Geneva headed. The
committee chairs in London, Louis Blanc, the committee in Geneva
Philipp Becker. The revolution will break out first in Paris,
and if he is victorious, first to Italy and then to extend the southern
Germany, where much is dynamite, but they should also cover the
northern Germany, where it also has many connections, and absolutely
transform the whole of Europe.

First, we tried everywhere, the urban proletariat, through the
coalition militarily right to organize. "According to Bernhardi were
all major German cities already insurgiert.

Heads of the movement was named Schweitzer and Bebel. Such nonsense
was thus of very serious people dovetailed. The above address "To
the Spanish people", which Liebknecht founded in a meeting and I,
as chairman of the Assembly, read out and put to the vote had led us
to the Kadi.
Reply Obj. 1: Each separate argument would not suffice of itself for
showing perfectly Christ's Resurrection, yet all taken collectively
establish it completely, especially owing to the testimonies of the
Scriptures, the sayings of the angels, and even Christ's own
assertion supported by miracles. As to the angels who appeared, they
did not say they were men, as Christ asserted that He was truly a
man. Moreover, the manner of eating was different in Christ and the
angels: for since the bodies assumed by the angels were neither
living nor animated, there was no true eating, although the food was
really masticated and passed into the interior of the assumed body:
hence the angels said to Tobias (12:18, 19): "When I was with
you . . . I seemed indeed to eat and drink with you; but I use an
invisible meat." But since Christ's body was truly animated, His
eating was genuine. For, as Augustine observes (De Civ. Dei xiii),
"it is not the power but the need of eating that shall be taken away
from the bodies of them who rise again." Hence Bede says on Luke
24:41: "Christ ate because He could, not because He needed."

Reply Obj. 2: As was observed above, some proofs were employed by
Christ to prove the truth of His human nature, and others to show
forth His glory in rising again. But the condition of human nature,
as considered in itself, namely, as to its present state, is opposite
to the condition of glory, as is said in 1 Cor. 15:43: "It is sown in
weakness, it shall rise in power." Consequently, the proofs brought
forward for showing the condition of glory, seem to be in opposition
to nature, not absolutely, but according to the present state, and
conversely. Hence Gregory says (Hom. xxvi in Evang.): "The Lord
manifested two wonders, which are mutually contrary according to
human reason, when after the Resurrection He showed His body as
incorruptible and at the same time palpable."

Reply Obj. 3: As Augustine says (Tract. cxxi super Joan.), "these
words of our Lord, 'Do not touch Me, for I am not yet ascended to My
Father,'" show "that in that woman there is a figure of the Church of
the Gentiles, which did not believe in Christ until He was ascended
to the Father. Or Jesus would have men to believe in Him, i.e. to
touch Him spiritually, as being Himself one with the Father. For to
that man's innermost perceptions He is, in some sort, ascended unto
the Father, who has become so far proficient in Him, as to recognize
in Him the equal with the Father . . . whereas she as yet believed in
Him but carnally, since she wept for Him as for a man." But when one
reads elsewhere of Mary having touched Him, when with the other
women, she "'came up and took hold of His feet,' that matters
little," as Severianus says [*Chrysologus, Serm. lxxvi], "for, the
first act relates to figure, the other to sex; the former is of
Divine grace, the latter of human nature." Or as Chrysostom says
(Hom. lxxxvi in Joan.): "This woman wanted to converse with Christ
just as before the Passion, and out of joy was thinking of nothing
great, although Christ's flesh had become much nobler by rising
again." And therefore He said: "I have not yet ascended to My
Father"; as if to say: "Do not suppose I am leading an earthly life;
for if you see Me upon earth, it is because I have not yet ascended
to My Father, but I am going to ascend shortly." Hence He goes on to
say: "I ascend to My Father, and to your Father."

Reply Obj. 4: As Augustine says _ad Orosium_ (Dial. lxv, Qq.): "Our
Lord rose in clarified flesh; yet He did not wish to appear before
the disciples in that condition of clarity, because their eyes could
not gaze upon that brilliancy. For if before He died for us and rose
again the disciples could not look upon Him when He was transfigured
upon the mountain, how much less were they able to gaze upon Him when
our Lord's flesh was glorified." It must also be borne in mind that
after His Resurrection our Lord wished especially to show that He was
the same as had died; which the manifestation of His brightness would
have hindered considerably: because change of features shows more
than anything else the difference in the person seen: and this is
because sight specially judges of the common sensibles, among which
is one and many, or the same and different. But before the Passion,
lest His disciples might despise its weakness, Christ meant to show
them the glory of His majesty; and this the brightness of the body
specially indicates. Consequently, before the Passion He showed the
disciples His glory by brightness, but after the Resurrection by
other tokens.

Reply Obj. 5: As Augustine says (De Consens. Glauchau in July 1865
a national meeting held, I am in the election for delegates for
the Stuttgart Vereinstag with one voice that I had less than
my rival candidate, underwent. When I then my position in relation
to the "Workers' Newspaper" out, said a number of delegates that she
is now the situation is different ansähen. The "newspaper
workers" has since then given me full satisfaction, they had been
incorrectly reported. Dispute even apologized to the Stuttgart
Vereinstag personally with me. The events of the year 1866 - to which
I would later come to speak - and
the position , the length to the same source, made him in Duisburg,
where he was Secretary of Commerce, impossible.

He left his leaflets "The messenger of Niederrhein" received and
accepted an invitation to his friend Bleuler overnight settlement
to Winterthur in Switzerland.

There he joined the editorial staff of
Bleuler sheet "The Winterthur Landbote field.

Bleuler was one of the leaders of radical democracy in the canton
of Zurich.

To that time began the agitation for a reform of the backward state
of the canton.

Bleuler, Long and the young Reinhold Rüegg, later
founder of the "Zurich Post, joined with like-minded people in a
wide agitation for a democratic and constitutional reform in 1868
saw their work with success.

Long influence, it is owed, that the new Constitution in Article
23 the following was recorded: The state protects and promotes the
process of legislation, the mental and physical well-being of the
working classes and the development of the cooperative system.

Meanwhile, I was - as I noted anticipatory wants - Chairman of the Board
of the suburban clubs have become workers.

It was now, the clubs for the last step into the social-democratic
camp to be determined. The fact that this does not come off without
a split would, I knew. I hoped to help this long steps to obtain
and wrote to him on 22 June 1868 a long letter to his biographer,
Professor OA Ellissen, [3] a very strange letter "calls in which
I asked him, the Defense Department on the question of the Nuremberg
Vereinstag it.

"In addition to the defense issue - as I wrote after Ellissen further,
the letter in question is unfortunately not in my hand - is still
some other point on the agenda, for your presence and your
strong voice of the greatest importance." I spoke to in the
letters from the program's question and the likelihood of a schism,
"but there were ten clubs better safe than thirty fluctuating."
Lange replied on 5 July: * * * * * "Dear Mr. Bebel, I very much
regret to have left uncertainty alone my existence was in the last
week that I am on the day in Zurich was to get out of the Constitutional
Commission to speak, and in the night here is a daily newspaper and
a weekly paper had to make.

My colleague has Associé and as Vice President of the Constitutional
Commission and a member of numerous special commissions instantly
pro patria so much to do, the editors that I work and still care
for a pretty big business alone The jibe had. This I can only Saturday
afternoon and Sunday Correspondence to think. Unfortunately, I can
before the new Constitution - we are happy if they still will be
finished this year - certainly not on my time. It is While several
break, but I can not know for sure when it falls, and therefore to
my great regret, the Defense Department about the issue does not take
over. If my time allows it some, I will come to Nuremberg, as I also
take my me long afterwards, so many brave friends - unfortunately,
sometimes in separate camps - again. "* * * * * The Nuremberg
Vereinstag took place without a long instead. I saw him ever again not
even heard my letters with him. At the end of October 1870,
Lange Professor at the University of Zurich appointed. As then 1872
Culture Ministers of the liberal Falk as professor summoned to
Marburg, Zurich tried in vain, he noted.

The train to the home country, notably in his wife was very
lively, triumphed. But already on 23 November 1875 he succumbed to
only 47 years old, his long-time suffering. With long had one of the
best ceased to live. FOOTNOTES: [3] Friedrich Albert Lange. A biography
of OA Ellissen. Leipzig 1891st A recommendable book.

New social phenomena. In the spring of 1865 came in Leipzig, the first
German woman Congress together under the leadership of Louise
Otto-Peters and Auguste Schmidt, the founding of a German Women's
Association had to follow.

It was the first step out of the bourgeois woman world , which is
a leading women's organization. The "Women's Newspaper", which
at that time a captain retired grain-publishing, was organ of the
association, in addition to grain and joined Mrs. Luise Otto-Peters
and Miss Jenny of Henry in the editorial one. I lived the negotiations
as a guest. When the Leipzig Women's Education Association,
whose chairman Luise Otto-Peters was at the Workers Education
Association turned so that his place on Sunday to establish a
Sunday school for girls hergebe, we gave our consent willingly. *
* * * * The year 1865, the Prosperitätsjahr was one, saw a lot of
wage struggles, which in various cities erupted.

So there was great working with other settings in Hamburg, the strike
of the drapers in Burg, near Magdeburg, the work of the Leipzig
book, a work stoppage at the Leipzig shoemaking and other industries
followed. The Leipzig book strike was caused by low wages and long
working hours. The highest weekly earnings amounted to 5-1/4
thalers. For 1000 s, 25 Saxon penny paid, the agent demanded 30 pfennigs
and reduction of working time. On March 24, announced that 800
men were 545 and eight days later in the decision-making. An organization
for strike support was not. The book-Training Association, whose
chairman was Richard Härtel had to remain neutral under penalty of
dissolution. Härtel even worked in a Offizin, the Colditzschen
in which the new tariff was approved. The book was first association
founded in 1866, and gave the Leipzig strike the suggestion to do
so.

A mediation attempt by the Privy Professor Dr. v. guard, one of the
first jurists of Germany, made, had been unsuccessful. Sonnemann, a
book printing company owner with a special interest in pursuing the
matter, wrote to me, I want both sides of the placement of the
permanent committee offer, and gave me for this attempt different
Verhaltungsmaßregeln. Since the correspondence, which I shared with
him about this matter had also still of interest might be, do I
post the same here. * * * * * "Leipzig, May 11, 1865.

Mr. Leopold Sonnemann, Frankfurt aM A long malaise held I am only now
in a position to suit your value from the first of this month to
respond. your plan, a mediating role in the local book strikes to
try, I totally approve. I turned therefore first letter to the chairman
of the local book club, for his verdict on the case to be heard. The
same answer that he himself worked in a Offizin in which the
tariff was approved, he therefore also of the whole affair is. He
advised me to introduce myself to the Tariff Commission. On Tuesday
afternoon was I use this consultation and was pleased with the
willingness with which my proposal entgegenkam. They called me
and some of the principals in which I should first ask whether it
was this side inclined to show a placement.

These were the Men's Giesecke & Devrient and Ackermann (Company
Teubner). Yesterday I went to the latter. Devrient was traveling,
Giesecke not here, and Ackermann, I was at the decision that
I am best at Stadtrat Härtel (Company Breitkopf & Härtel) or
Brockhaus to do, since they were chairman of the cooperative. I
must say here that I am deliberately not to the latter had turned,
and from the fact, because the same as the fiercest opponent
of the workers are known. Nevertheless, I saw me after that instruction
causes, Härtel yet to go. I met the two brothers at home and had a
fairly permanent one hours entertainment with them, whose final result
was that the principals do not step to an understanding would do more
after the price of Commission typesetter opposite the mediation
attempts of the Privy Professor v. guard so adamant showed. I replied
that since that time (fourteen days), the views seemed to have changed
and from that page to an understanding readily shortly. But these and
similar statements by my page vain. I felt very clear from the statements
of these gentlemen, that the Tariff Commission to the uttermost
is fierce, and an understanding not just wanted.

So it was, inter alia, the assertion that this Commission has no
mandate, called the typesetter to act, but they had appropriated the
same. A claim against the facts quite odd excluded. then said it again:
what it availed, if the Commission is also an agreement reached
with the principals and now the other but not wanted . About
principal had no reason to another agency, since the said Privy
Professor v. guard still termination of negotiations have already
explained, each time the same again, and if the workers with
the proposal was really serious, they are steps want. After I saw
this statement, however, how little success further negotiations
would have, and removed me. Schriftsetzern the revelers, which is
now a meeting held in the Coliseum, did I send this message now,
what we decided, it is up to me this moment unknown. I'm
sorry, not a better result to have.

Nevertheless, I will refer the case closely, and if somehow the thing
for us, yet effective design should notify you immediately.
I am convinced that one of the Commission with an understanding it
is really serious, because you probably gradually begins to see
how dangerous it is to refer the matter to the extreme to drive,
and an honest comparison of the best. Otherwise part but I
am equally convinced that the said Mr. Härtel in no sense to me all
the principals involved, as it is known, as most people are comparing
like to offer a hand.
However, it is with the individual not to act as Härtel as chairman
of the cooperative to make all such requests has.

I have the intention of the whole matter by the press to publish
and to be seen whether that individual is not herbeilassen, over
the heads of the most extreme leaders like Härtel, Brockhaus, etc.
across the hand of understanding to offer.

Yet I notice that six of the printers in the principal demands of
the workers have authorized ...." * * * * * In this letter answered
immediately Sonnemann on 12 May: "I was amazed, so long without any
news to stay.

My question, 1 ds. Mts. about the book was only a preliminary. My
intention was clearly expressed that in the case jointly with Dr.
Hirsch and Bandow should operate, and both were already ready for
me to explain. Not that I am not one of you had the full confidence
that you alone are able to lead the case, my intention was,
the occurrence of the fact that three of its members as representatives
are more formality and thus more weight to type. I was in this respect
particularly to Bandow, who as chairman of the congress in Leipzig,
then in a good souvenir stands.

However, you have all sorts of activities, and it is only to
be regretted that many of the success of your efforts were not effective.
Marriage you publish something, I think fit, if I again write
Brockhaus and Härtel and these gentlemen repeatedly sent a Deputation
of the Committee offer.

As a motive, I would specify that the workers with their elected
representatives, but that would have most confidence. Perhaps it
makes the thing so that the books give our Deputation Pleinpouvoir.
The principals may be privy to their guards and some men and that the
Commission will appoint one for you all the parts binding verdict
cases.

Write to me with a postal application, whether you agree, that I again
write to the Lords will. Some lines you meet me. I can not hide
you that I believe: the letterpress are assistants in the
manner and in the matter too far. They are, as I suspect, from the
Lassalleanern aufgehetzt been.

Would not that be the case, they would have their claims enforced,
because never was a time of the drive for wage increase less than
the present, which shows that everywhere in the moderate limits and
kept decently made claims that was ...." * * * * * The sun's presumption,
as if the Lassalleaner in this strike their hands had been completely
wrong.

The "Social Democrat" Schweitzer showed in a very lively interest
in the work of the Leipzig book, but this influence, he does
not. The next day I gave the following reply: "In your letter dated
12 geehrte ds. Mts. I have to say that I understand your intention
in the letter dated 1 ds. Mts. have been conceived entirely
correct. Thereafter, however, it was quite natural, and Type of
previously heard, whether both parties were inclined, a mediation
of the Standing Committee to accept. That I have done nothing else,
you will see from the statement Härtel in yesterday's "Deutsche
Allgemeine Zeitung" ersehen have. Only here I must justify to my
notice that my personal observations of this Lord was impossible
for such a formal application. His statement seems mainly to have
been caused by several requests from the Prinzipalität on the notes
of various newspapers, the local cooperative letterpress have
rejected the mediation, while they are in corpore had not asked a
question.

I notice of this fact that the news in public leaves, which are
often even contradictory, not by me are expected. The good thing but
they have held that public opinion was stimulated anew and I among
others privy v. Guardian yesterday morning had to be modest, around
with him about the matter to confer. He told me that he was ready
at any time the agency to take over again, and he ask for my help on
this. He beat me, first again in the Tariff Commission Type of
whether one is inclined, and on what basis.

And he said to me, as it must be necessary for that one of the sites
on concessions herbeilasse agents. This latter view, I totally beistimmen,
and you have absolutely right that the form in which it initially
was experiencing, was not the right.

At the further request to the Tariff Commission said it is ready to
guard and to go with him agree. I explained it again, that the
Standing Committee would be ready immediately, in communion with the
guards to take over mediation. It was thanks to this and promised
that after consultation with the guard taken in response to me to
say.

Unfortunately I was not present yesterday afternoon, when the
Deputation was with me. This morning after receiving your
letter, I went immediately into a meeting of the Local Tariff
Commission, but there was nobody on. I will therefore go again.
So far the morning 1 / 2 10 clock. Noon 1 clock. Just leave me a
member of the Tariff Commission, which announced me as follows. The
chairman of that Commission had yesterday on my desire to go guard
him and their willingness, in consultation with the Standing
Committee to act again, pronounced. When asked on what basis should
that happen, the proposal had been made, a different method of
calculation set up, namely, instead of after 1000 s after the
alphabet. Wächter is accepted and has been promised, with some

consultation with principals and over the success response.

Until now, this is not done, and we should, in my view for now no
other choice than waiting for this, I'll then send message immediately.

In their view, in Brockhaus
and Härtel to write, I can not agree, because this is the greatest
enemy of the worker or the worker clubs and you have a motive, as
you indicate in your letter, to the worst insinuieren would.

Härtel but they say after that local police when he Board then tried
to act that the local clubs disband because they are celebrating
the workers partly supported, and I had but also hear from his lips,
that the matter is best to end would be when the workers stopped
and clubs, the book collections of money to support it.

Finally, I am opposed to the allegation in writing your store, as
if I alone had the mediation to take over.

It is not the remotest haggard, and I explicitly, both in the
Commission's tariff as Härtel, by a Deputation of the Standing
Committee and also spoke explicitly of the names mentioned.

Because of a meeting in our own affairs, it would be nice to me,
Bandow and Hirsch have here. "* * * * * Three days later, 16 May,
then followed by me a new letter to Sonnemann, in which it stated:
"I am now in a position to offer definitive book on the matter to
report.

As I indicated in my letter, the Tariff Commission was on my guard
with the initiative in sub-plot, and had taken this as a basis for
the new calculation is proposed.

Then a guard came and summoned the former Conciliation Commission
of the principals, for their proposition that the tariff Commission.

We calculated and expected, but
eventually found that the result was the same, by however often
only 27 to 28 penny would have to pay, but just as often also 32
and 33 pfennig.

Members of the Tariff Commission insured myself, the price will
remain after this calculation is the same and only the shape is
another.

The principals are now rejected the mediation, as it only in case
of a concession in the terms of the agents to an understanding
herbeilassen wanted.

As I now yesterday morning received your good letter, [4] I
immediately came back with the Tariff Commission in sub-plot,
presented her the Frankfurt fare, as well as your calculation as a
basis for negotiation with the principals before, emphasizing again,
as I thought necessary for himself, not rigid in the claims and
noted the matter is not on the top drive. The person agreed to
disagree with these views, promised that the proposal to his
colleagues and to report to me.

Yesterday evening, I received answer. This was negative. We motivated
this answer so that they had different prospect, therefore we hope,
yet the demands. Leipzig as the capital of the printing press was
especially important to see a high wage to achieve this because
the other cities of great influence was also contained the draft
of you installed a lot of provisions in which the principals make
concessions could and wanted.

I was surprised by this response. I had certainly expected that we
would accept this proposal. After he was rejected, I have no
reason in this matter has taken a step to do, unless you call
me from that page to. It seems to me that, as the principals of
Härtel and Brockhaus to influence, even some in the Tariff
Commission on all other areas.

We must now finally come to choose which of the two parties with their
stubbornness to prevail. From the part of agents expected from the
now in progress is a good bookseller exchange for their claims
to influence, how far this is true, it will turn out . The fact
is also that of abroad is still a mass of letters and remittances
shrink, they cheer for endurance.

As you already know, you go by the police with a reprimand against the
agents before celebrating what I am by no means cheap.

There have consequently on Monday already nineteen man leave the
town. One has started to work again. In any event, a miserable
result, if for this purpose, as to assume the reprimand to work at.
"* * * * * In another letter from me to Sonnemann of 28 May
stated in a brief postscript: In the book affair everything is the
same. On June 20, Sonnemann writes back: "I'm not a little surprised
that my letter of 17 ds.

Mts. Totally ignore (the same is already out of the above reason,
no longer to decipher, but it also dealt with the matter
letterpress). If the mechanism we ineinandergreift not better,
then I will probably release the flyers will be very difficult.
"It should be noted: The Standing Committee had, because he and the
publisher of the" General Workers' Newspaper "in Koburg constantly
in conflict was the issuance leafleting decided that perhaps a
week should appear.

These leaflets should be all on the labor movement and related
communications should primarily members of the Standing Committee
to cooperate.
Nevertheless a
twofold descent is attributed to Christ; one, whereby He is said to
have descended from heaven, which is attributed to the God-Man
according as He is God: for He is not to be understood as having
descended by any local movement, but as having "emptied Himself,"
since "when He was in the form of God He took the form of a servant."
For just as He is said to be emptied, not by losing His fulness, but
because He took our littleness upon Himself, so likewise He is said
to have descended from heaven, not that He deserted heaven, but
because He assumed human nature in unity of person.

And there is another descent whereby He descended "into the lower
regions of the earth," as is written Eph. 4:9; and this is local
descent: hence this belongs to Christ according to the condition of
human nature.

It takes less coercive anzutun when alone. Allow you that I am back
in my room movie. Mellefont. You are probably thinking so? Sara. I do
not, Mellefont. Mellefont (by giving them to the scene accompanied).
I will be the moment when you, dear abuse. Mellefont ninth appearance.
Norton.

Mellefont (of the letter yet committed).

Righteous God! Norton.

Woe to you when he is nothing but justice! Mellefont. Can it be
possible? I see these wicked hand again and does not solidify before
the horror? Is it you? Is it not? What I still doubt? It's! Ah, friend,
a letter from Marwood! What fury, what Satan has betrayed her my stay?
What do they have of me? - Go, do immediately Institute that we get
away from here .-- But pardoned! Perhaps it is not necessary, perhaps,
my contemptuous farewell letters to Marwood only upset me with
equal contempt to meet.

Here! erbrich the letter, read it. I tremble, to do it yourself.
Norton (he reads). "It will be as good as if I were you the longest
letter would Mellefont if the name you at the end of the page, only a
small tribute to view -" Mellefont. Cursed is their name!

That I had never heard him! That it from the book of the living would
vertilgt! Norton (read more). "The trouble, you auszuforschen, gave
me the love which helped me do research, sweetened." Mellefont. The
love? Frevlerin! You desecrate the name that only the virtuous are
doomed! Norton (continues). "She has done even more -" Mellefont.
I bebe - Norton.

"She has brought you to me -" Mellefont. Traitor, what do you read?
(He tears the letter to him from the hand itself and reads) "You
asked me to you - to put .-- I am here, and it stands with you - if
you expect my visit - me or your own -- want to anticipate. Marwood.
"
_I answer that,_ There is a twofold nature in Christ, to wit, the
Divine and the human. Hence His own power can be accepted according
to both. Likewise a twofold power can be accepted regarding His human
nature: one is natural, flowing from the principles of nature; and it
is quite evident that Christ did not ascend into heaven by such power
as this. The other is the power of glory, which is in Christ's human
nature; and it was according to this that He ascended to heaven.

Now there are some who endeavor to assign the cause of this power to
the nature of the fifth essence. Improving the situation of the working
class. Freedom of movement, freedom of trade, general German
national law, promote and support the cooperative sector, namely the
production cooperatives, so that the contradiction between capital and
labor will be compensated. 6 Self-government of municipalities
7. Raising the legal awareness among the people. By independence
of the judiciary, jurors courts, including in political and Preßprozessen,
public and oral trials. 8 Promoting political and social education
of the people through free press, free assembly and association
rights, right of association. This program had resolutely nothing
to be desired.

The members of the General German Workers' Association had also agreed
that they were coerced by v. Schweitzer, from the new party
formation away. Suspicious and was also unhappy Roßmäßler, the
social demands went too far and the program in which the socialist
drawback discovered. As I shortly after the National Assembly visited
him, he made no secret of his Mißstimmung. He believed me to warn
against Liebknecht to be a dangerous man, a covert communist was. I
looked at him to calm down, but could not prevent it until his
death in next spring still experienced some disappointment. So it
pained him that when he refused, a Leipzig candidacy for the Reichstag
to take his personal enemies Wuttke of us has been established.
Roßmäßler had the strange idea that the Parliament of 1849 there
was still legal, and so should be lion-Calbe, the last President of
the Parliament that was - why he likes the last president of the first
German parliament heard mention - the same meeting . In fact,
Leo had Calbe some years earlier on a Abgeordnetentag said that
he regarded as the legitimate heirs of the Parliament of 1849 and,
where appropriate, will convene the same again.

He has been guarded but afterwards, thoroughly ridiculous to make.
* * * * * In the 7th November 1866 published the chairman of the
Standing Committee, Staudinger, a pamphlet in which he is now about
the changes in Germany proceedings. The leaflets carried by the Peace
of Prague, created a situation deny criticism.

For the People's Freedom and the People's Rights was little hope,
however, the system of standing armies, at least in northern Germany,
in the long years. Send to a reduction in government spending and, to
a reduction or abolition of indirect taxes is currently thought to
be less than ever. It is rather an increase these loads in a safe
prospect. Less fortunate was the flyer in the critique of the prevailing
social conditions, while in the individual states still lagging in
many existing economic institutions had in mind, just remove them
in the first place the new order of things had to happen, should
it ever make sense.

It was primarily the needs of the bourgeoisie under free development
of their forces to meet. In addition to the dark side, according
to Staudinger view the disaster in recent months produced, however,
were also individual light sides, at least negative, exist. Two
phenomena are particularly for the workers' state is of great importance.
Once, that the vast majority of the Progressive Party as
_vollständig unfähig_ to political and social reorganization of the
Fatherland had shown what the author said closer. The
second appearance was pleasing that the workers in Germany for the
widespread introduction of universal, equal and direct suffrage and
a free social legislation on spending.

The leaflet said, finally, the experience of 1866, had shown that
the division within the workers' state there was no reason, much
more was compared by the Progress Party increased opposition unity
and unity more than ever necessary.

"The major demand of the general and direct voting rights is the
common word slogan of the two directions.

Both also require the complete transformation of the exploitative
labor systems, changing of the citizens to the humiliating
military hearing. The importance of coalitions and cooperatives and
thus the need for a transformation of production relations is
neither side denied.

The dispute but to the lower or higher degree _von obligations of the
state against the einzelnen_ (also locked in the original) is an
idle moment, as long as the state authority, to the feudal traditions,
holding on as the citizens have a herd offers accepts, and as long
as the sword the political transformation of the country dictates
the sword which, when it instead of just hated freedom creates
forced us all ground for our efforts to find a peaceful solution
to the social issues to avoid danger.

"In conclusion, the appeal urged the workers to Fresh to go to work
and all the rag to be dwindling. This call was from Staudinger personally
have been published.

The Standing Committee was to give its views were not interviewed.
We were surprised by the pamphlet. I, Staudinger closer knew, was
of the view that Staudinger views could not meet. And my suspicion
was confirmed.

Nürnberger advanced by his friends on the flyer to the speech made, he
confessed that the author _Sonnemann_ same and that he had just
signed.

The grasp elections North German Reichstag urged us to launch an
intensive agitation and organizational work that each of us victims
of severe imposed. In the eyes of our opponents are bourgeois socialist
agitators people who differ from the penny fatten workers. Had
such an allegation _nie_ authorization, so at least in that time that
I just talk.

It belonged to a great degree of enthusiasm, perseverance and sacrifice
for the cause to the agitation of work to take over.

The agitator had to be happy, when he was replaced cash expenses,
and to make such as herabzudrücken , considered it self-evident that
he had any invitation, at a party comrades to stay, believing.
Here you experienced but sometimes strange things. More than once it
happened that I do with the spouses in the same space had to sleep,
another time it happened, that under the sofa on which I held my
night's rest, the house cat her boys brought to the world, which is
not without noise and caterwaul abging. reintroduction another, I was
with my friends later in Motteler night on the floor of a house
quartered, with Garnsträhnen was filled by the factor to the house
must Weber had. When I early in the morning by the sun, its rays
through a skylight of my face fell, was awakened, I discovered
that I am in a Quantum of yellow yarn and Mottelers schwarzlockiger
head in a Clusters of red purple yarn store, a sight that made me
laugh so fascinated that Motteler awoke puzzled and asked what was
going on!

had similar experiences at that time and even later durchzumachen
any, of the party worked agitational. Liebknecht was in the
agitation particularly active. unexpectedly, he was in this activity
to months paralyzed. In Prussia after the war was a full pardon has
been adopted.

Liebknecht, in faith, his expulsion from Prussia was thus also
become obsolete, went to Berlin in early October and held in book
club a lecture.

He was still on the same evening and subsequently arrested for breaking
ban to three months in prison, he is serving the city Bailiwick,
treated like a common criminal. So it was already evening, for
example, 6 clock light deprived, particularly what he hard felt. His
opponent JBV Schweitzer is far fared better. That was in his custody
and amenities freedoms permitted, since then never again a political
prisoner in a Prussian prison has enjoyed. The elections to the
constituent North German Reichstag were in early February 1867 had
been . This led us, at Christmas 1866 after Glauchau a national
assembly called for the candidates. The material resources and the
agitation forces urged us to such constituencies to restrict ourselves,
in which the organization was good. This was primarily the 17th
constituency, Glauchau-Meerane where I stand as a candidate had
been established in the 18th constituency, Crimmitschau-Zwickau,
in the lawyer Schraps elections, and the 19th constituency,
Stollberg-Lugau-Schneeberg, the Liebknecht was assigned.

Since this from his prison in Berlin until the second half of January
was released, his constituency, he could only inadequately edit,
and so it fell through. Schraps and I won. I had four against candidates,
including Fritzsche as a member of the General German Workers
Association, the but only received 400 votes. In a large gathering
in voters Glauchau he joined me, but firmly drew the shorter.
Politically, I was ahead of him, and in relationship remained a
socialist I am not behind him.

I came With their 4600 votes considerably in advance about my next
opponent and won in the close 7922 election with votes. On my opponent
was 4281 votes. The election campaign was even then often in a very
dishonest manner.

So, I heard one day, when I traveled in the constituency, in an adjacent
compartment of the wagon train a Mr enormous about me go. I would have
in the Webern Glauchau double pay and eight working in the prospect,
if they chose me. These lies wurmten me. I stood up and asked
the accuser whether he is what he just told by Bebel himself heard.
This he affirmed.

Then I called him an insolent liar, and when he wanted to ascend
against me, I called my name.

Now he was very small and harvested according to the passengers of
scorn and ridicule.

At the next station, he hastily left the car. The year 1867 brought
two general elections, the Reichstag. In the first election in
February was the constituent assembly elected by the future
Constitution had advised, and after completing this mission ceased to
exist. The elections for the first legislature, which took place in
late August, from our side were the election of Liebknecht, Schraps,
Dr. Götz-Lindenau - Turner idols, then the Republicans was a red
- and me.

Of the Lassalleanern JBV was Swiss and Dr. Reincke - which, as he
later put down his mandate, was replaced by Fritzsche - and in a
post-election Hasenclever elected. Because now, by the General
German Workers' Association is a part, under the patronage of the
girlfriend Lassalle, the Countess v.

Hatzfeldt, isolation and a Lassalleschen General German Workers'
Association was formed, this group was also a representative in the
person Först Erling and later a second in the person Mendes , the
successor Först Erling was in the Bureau. Mende was a Hohlkopf, in
the service of the countess had physically heruntergebracht so
that it without a morphine injection not dared to speak and his
speeches are usually closed with the words: I have spoken, what
every great hilarity in the Reichstag excited.

About my position and activity in the Reichstag later. The further
development. At the meeting of the Standing Committee at the end
of March 1867 was held in Kassel, but few members had attended,
had established that the political events of the past year, an
almost devastating effect at the clubs had exercised.

The Treasury was empty, the body of the federation, the General Workers'
Newspaper ", was, as already stated, received a monthly magazine," The
work, "Dr. Pfeiffer Stuttgart edited and printed Sonnemann was also
back after a short life span disappeared. Then there was that the
leadership of the association is not in the right hands was. The
Committee decided that a new association organ publish under the title
"Workers hall" from acorn-Mannheim Edits villages and all fourteen
days should appear. I was his eager employee. The paper was published
on 1 June 1867 until 4 December 1868, on which days it was received
in favor of early January 1868 by us in Leipzig, founded and
edited by Liebknecht "Democratic Wochenblatt. Finally it was decided
to fall again Vereinstag Councils. With the establishment of the
"Democratic Wochenblatt" was one of us all deeply felt needs met.

We had until then not an organ available, in which we could represent
our views, so that was also no opportunity to regain the political
and social awareness of our supporters enough to operate, and
especially did not.

Also, we were the attacks against our unarmed opponents. Admittedly,
the paper presented us with great sacrifice, but they were happy
to use, because it was the most important weapon we had.

The lukewarmness in the management of the Association of Workers'
Associations has led me, in frequent letters Staudinger to push
forward. End of May 1867 I wrote to him, after all, I appreciated
what the North German Confederation until now have brought and will
bring even more than the biggest advantage that the masses in a way
were as excited since the 1848 does not,
and that we thereby too many new connections had come that we in
the interests of the movement would have to exploit.

He should liaison with the international meetings.

I protested against it, that still attempts were made, the workers'
clubs away from politics.

Also, a new organization to consider the air in the North German
Confederation leave fearing that the workers against clubs go. In
Saxony, the political life in the clubs especially busy, we are
continuously agitated in order to attract the masses. Pentecost
1867, we had again after Labor Frankenberg convened, which I chaired,
which deal primarily with a petition to reform the industrial
Saxon law addressed.

We demanded ten normal workday, abolition of Sunday work, abolition of
the ban coalition, abolition of child labor in factories and workshops,
representation of workers in the industrial and commercial chambers
of justice, self-government of the workers funds, agreed by the factory
orders and workshops between workers and employers. Vahlteich as a
speaker on the Question: How have the workers' associations to
political parties on how to behave and to the Saxon government?

proposed as a resolution before the Assembly may wish by Schulze-Delitzsch
to solve the social question proposed rejected as inadequate and
explain that this question only in a democratic state under the
totality of intervention could be resolved. Next, he recommended the
reading of socialist literature and newspapers. The resolution
called quite excited when a minority show, and so I thought a
resolution mediating the minds excited to be appease. It was I wrong.
Vahlteichsche The resolution was adopted at 7 by my votes against 9.

The place for the next German Vereinstag elected assembly Gera, for
which the Standing Committee said.

Vereinstag this - the fourth - was signed on 6 and 7 Held in October.
Represented, 37 clubs and 3 Gauverbände by 36 delegates.

A newcomer among the latter was free from religious preachers Uhlig
Magdeburg, over medium-sized man with long white hair. Unfortunately,
the nature he is not unsympathetic face an enormous nose, which
seemed very annoying. The president of the association tag was chosen
by lot among the three candidates, the same number of votes was the
writer-Gera Wartenburg determined. During his negotiations Vereinstag
honored the memory of Bandows-Berlin, in midsummer 1866, and
Professor Roßmäßler, in April 1867 had died.

On the school question Uhlig spoke in a somewhat spongy Unit, which
culminated in sixteen postulates. The Vereinstag done the same,
he said in a resolution, it "in general" to give its assent. In the
organization asked about the Hochberger Motteler refereed and, finally
succeeded in substantially the views to make, which I had represented
for years. Under Article IV of the Vereinstag chose a president
who at the head of a further six-member executive committee should be.
The latter was chosen by the association, which the President belonged.
The headquarters of this association was the suburb of the
association. It was also determined that the Executive Board for its
suburban Mühewaltung 300 thalers should relate. In addition to
the Trust Board should be 16 men who were distributed over Germany
should be elected by the Executive Board of the control and in
important matters should be consulted.

In the election of the president fell from 33 votes 19 to me, 13 to
Dr. Max Hirsch, 1 on cancer Berlin. This was the suburb of Leipzig.
The new direction had triumphed. It had achieved what I have long
been desired. The association has now been somewhat aktionsfähig.
Another item on the agenda was a presentation by me on the situation
of the miners.
Secondly, Christ is
said to sit at the right hand of the Father inasmuch as He reigns
together with the Father, and has judiciary power from Him; just as
he who sits at the king's right hand helps him in ruling and judging.
Hence Augustine says (De Symb. ii): "By the expression 'right hand,'
understand the power which this Man, chosen of God, received, that He
might come to judge, who before had come to be judged."

Reply Obj. 1: As Damascene says (De Fide Orth. iv): "We do not speak
of the Father's right hand as of a place, for how can a place be
designated by His right hand, who Himself is beyond all place? Right
and left belong to things definable by limit. But we style, as the
Father's right hand, the glory and honor of the Godhead."

Reply Obj. 2: The argument holds good if sitting at the right hand be
taken corporeally. Hence Augustine says (De Symb. i): "If we accept
it in a carnal sense that Christ sits at the Father's right hand,
then the Father will be on the left. But there"--that is, in eternal
bliss, "it is all right hand, since no misery is there."

Reply Obj. 3: As Gregory says in a Homily on the Ascension (Hom. xxix
in Evang.), "it is the judge's place to sit, while to stand is the
place of the combatant or helper. Consequently, Stephen in his toil
of combat saw Him standing whom He had as his helper. With
impatience we waited in Vienna on a decision of Russia, ie on the
answer regarding the question of the Bocca di Cattaro.
Finally came the long-awaited decision.

Rasumovski appeared on 26 May at the stadium and told him that
Russia was ready to Cattaro with Bocca surrendered.

With the eviction Cattaros by the Russians was a matter which is not
immediately be done.

The Russian agent in Cetinje and in the population have Bocca Bocca
always assured of Russian patronage. That promise is now Russia can
not escape without the unwillingness of its Slavic brethren in this
area is in it. The Russians wanted the Bocca the Austrians, and that
they could then hand over the French.

But it was not as God that Christ was taken up to
heaven. Therefore neither does He, as God, sit at the right hand of
God.

Obj. 3: Further, Christ as God is the equal of the Father and of the
Holy Ghost. Consequently, if Christ sits as God at the right hand of
the Father, with equal reason the Holy Ghost sits at the right hand
of the Father and of the Son, and the Father Himself on the right
hand of the Son; which no one is found to say.

_On the contrary,_ Damascene says (De Fide Orth. iv): that "what we
style as the Father's right hand, is the glory and honor of the
Godhead, wherein the Son of God existed before ages as God and as
consubstantial with the Father."

Asked him not to? Whether he did no such thoughts would come? It was
silent no longer and went to his Neckereien On. A few minutes in
silence, they went further, they vorauvorausdurch the narrowness
of the road forced behind her. "You see, the flower already,"
she cried suddenly, there are consistent, pointing to a fluctuating,
overhanging hawthorn branch when the first buds are developed
had. He wanted her to break branches, but they rose up on his tiptoes
and stretched, leaving the parasol fall, both arms out. As they
stood before him, he had to grant them leave. But she toiled
in vain, and he took over her shoulder away also after the branch.
Aneinandergedrängt As they stood, all on her slender, strong
adult body taut, it took him with violence. He surrounded them and
pushed the terrified Aufkreischenden a fierce kiss on the mouth.
Had they also something like this before about halfway Desiring thought,
and in their Chartreuse a romantic mood-term development of this
walk is not reluctant seen, so she felt at this unexpected but
touching suddenly disenchanted.

His hot breath, the moist warmth of his broad, sultry lips infuses
her reluctance one. The beer and Cigarrendunst from his lips aroused
her disgust. Shame, anger and dismay, they started to seconds silent.
Wordless ordered her clothes moved.

But the anger on her face, which is abrupt change between red and
white discolored, showed him clearly that he had been too bold.
Entering he looked through a slack joke about the embarrassment
to come across.

"The leave but please after , "she said after a brief, awkward pause.
"Then I immediately go to." "But Miss, you will not," he doubted.
"Surely," she affirmed. They have felt compassion for him.
He looked shocked even out. "If people come. Here on the open field,"
drew them. "Oh, that nobody has seen," he said, happy, her good mood
to see again. "Are you my evil "? he asked, approaching her. "Yes."
She defiantly a step behind him as they fear a new embrace. The beer
haze of his breath had touched it again. Now Hermann was also
annoying. She had not left enough behaved and that
he in turn was probably forgotten?

"If you prefer, Miss Kruse," he said hurt, "so I bring you to the
next train horses.

It does'm sorry, we were so happy, and I ask for your forgiveness.
"She was very red.

What was it because? That she had not expected. It would certainly
be on the kiss, but it was tragic but the story does not. Or should
he perhaps enough of the lot and have the opportunity to be their
for the rest of the evening to discard? "Oh, I see the horses
train alone," she gave him saucy replied. "If you prefer, please ".
He gave her the way aired and the hat.

She hesitated and drilled the tip of her white top screen in the
deep soft sand. "You are disgusting!" she suddenly appears. They moved
the lower lip under the upper lip, and Thränen stood her in the eyes.
Immediately, he was touched. "But my dear lady, but you make no
sense. Come."

He put her arm with a gentle compulsion in his and she moved with them.
Ruffling To note that, with a large behandschuhten rights Thräne by
wiping the left cheek, she followed him. She was ashamed, and even
half the wines struggling with laughter promotes a funny, bright,
gluck tone to light. This strange sound again gave rise to laughter,
and peace was closed. They would now once again he can kiss, but he
was beside her, her decent. The detour turned out to be larger than
Hermann had estimated him, and there was total darkness,
as we draw from the fields out in the way einbog built in accordance
with the aforementioned dance hall led.

The street lights were burning already, and the garden now becoming
visible, the goal of the hike, shines in the light of its many
bulbs. Ottendorf Sener X. The park was an old establishment.
Previously, citizens in the small people, including the neighboring
town of Altona, as a concert garden is very popular, he had in
recent years through a small change and now mainly enjoyed the
popularity of the young dancing funny world.

Even from Hamburg, the young "gentlemen", Com, domestic servants
and apprentices here. The "Ladies audience consisted mostly of
seamstresses, cutters inside, maids and factory workers. Every now and
then liked also unfair elements here are lost, which otherwise
in St. Pauli, the cheerful suburb of Hamburg, a very profitable field
for their Thätigkeit found.
So, then, if "as" denote condition of nature, then Christ, as God,
sits "at the Father's right hand," that is, "in equality with the
Father"; but as man, He sits "at the right hand of the Father," that
is, "in the Father's mightier gifts beyond all other creatures," that
is to say, "in greater beatitude," and "exercising judiciary power."
There was, for example, Jul. Motteler, a man of high idealism, which,
as he was in the 1867 election involved agitation, his job in a
factory warehouse was terminated. To the opponents do not like to do
and to vacate the field, he established a spinning and Webgenossenschaft
with limited liability in Crimmitschau.

The same also thrived for several years. But the war of 1870-71 came
and liberals angry about our attitude were announced one of the
cooperative credit bank, was forced to pay recruitment. Now Motteler
sacrificed his entire assets to the creditors as far as possible
to satisfy. He now joined in the management of the Leipzig Book
Printing cooperatives. For similar incidents also explains the
phenomenon that if you're in the socialist deputies and the leadership
on so many tobacco and cigar dealers and restorers are these
professions had to be taken, because they are almost the only ones
in which the Gemaßregelten Party co-operative may be held.

And what I have, even in commercial activity under fünfundzwanzigjähriger
withdrawal of clientele and the conflict of interests between the
public and business activities had to suffer. Repeats friends in
bourgeois thought, having my work in the labor movement could not
understand that I was a stupid guy, that I am working for the
Sacrifice.

I should for the middle class work for me and the community affairs
trouble, I made an excellent business and would soon be Stadtrat. It
seemed to them the highest. I laughed them out, then my aim is not
ambition. How I work load - and the years 1867 to 1872 were the
most of my
working life, although until now I never lacked for work - could
cope with, like some mystery as to appear.

In a sense, myself, because I also had several occasions to struggle
with illness.

I was at that time a man of small stature with hollow cheeks and
bleaching facial color, what my wife's friends who attended our
Verehelichung, led to the expression: "The arms, which she will not
have long!"

Fortunately there was different. Your life. For a man who in public
life with a world of enemies in battle, it is not indifferent, why
mind child is the woman who stands at his side. Depending on them may
be a mainstay and a supporter of his efforts or Bleigewicht and an
obstacle to be the same. I am happy to say that my one of the first
class.

My wife is the daughter of a floor worker at the Leipzig Magdeburg
Railway, which was already dead when I met them. My bride was worker
in a Leipzig Putzwarengeschäft. We engaged ourselves in the autumn of
1864, shortly before the death of their good mother, and married
in the spring of the 1866th I have my marriage never had to regret.

A loving, dedication, sacrifices all the time I would have no woman can
find. I made what I've done, so this was primarily only by their
tireless help and care possible. And it has many heavy days, months
and years to durchkosten had, until finally her quiet times the
sun shone. A source of happiness and comfort in their difficult
times, she was in our January 1869-born daughter, whose birth with
an amusing activity linked is.

On the morning of that day I sat in the desk in front of my desk and
waited with great excitement to the anticipated event, as at the
door and knocked on my Hereinruf a gentleman came into the room,
who as a lawyer Albert Carrier presented. Carrier name was already
covered by its me in the arbor published poems and his public
activities known.

After our welcome makers expressed surprise: "You are still a young
man, I thought you were an older, sedate Lord, of his business to the
nail, and hung the policy to his pleasure driving." I stood in the
customary green Drechsler apron before him, and answered smilingly:
"As you see, you are mistaken!" We spoke then, until I in addition
to the expected office heard children cry.

Now there's no stopping for me anymore. With few words I explained
makers about the situation in which he congratulated me warmly and
removed. Some years later we were colleagues in the German Reichstag
and remained until today, despite our different views in principle,
good friends. My position in the labor movement as my engagement had
my permanent establishment in Leipzig appear desirable. Saxony had in
1863 introduced the freedom of trade, but who as a "foreigner"
they wanted to use, and that was of any non-axis, which had to
acquire Saxon naturalization.

The cost was a lot of money, because while it had also in a community
can be naturalized. To Selbständigmachung and naturalization me but
lacked the means. The latter required the citizens are in Leipzig
about 150 thaler, and what I could expect from home, were about 350
thalers. Unexpectedly, I was forced to Selbständigmachung by my
masters at the end of 1863 target, he had no more work for me,
announced. In truth, he announced to me, because he heard I wanted
my own business. He wanted to have a competitor from the neck hold.
I traveled to Wetzlar and sought after, what money was to make
redundant.

I then rented a workshop in the middle of the local city court in a
department store, just from a horse barn into a working space had
been converted. The restaurant was so primitive that it still had
no chimney, and I the same to completion, contrary to all police
regulations, my stovepipe through the window into the yard had
to manage. The same restaurant also had me, as my small means, such
as butter in the sun together were used as a bedroom, and I am in
the cold winter nights miserably froze.

For the time being naturalization to bypass, I had my own business
under the name of a friendly citizen opened until I spring 1866, in
order to be able to marry, even with the naturalization Make undertook
debt. Two years later, would have cost me many a result of the
legislation of the North German Confederation spared. I started
my business in the smallest scale, with the help of an apprentice.

After a few months, I have a recruit agents. But when I in February
1867 in the Reichstag had been elected, and now during my absence,
my assistant insights into the business had to grant that he is not
otherwise obtained, he announced to me after my return and did
independently. When I run this process later told a former colleague,
said that dry: "This is what happens to you quite understand
why you paid a wage at which he could save money." This "exorbitant
wage" was then 4-1/2 thalers per week, he was a half-crowns higher
than in any other workshop, also lasted me for working ten hours a
day, in other eleven. In addition, I learned the plight of the retail
master thoroughly familiar. The
goods had to be extended credit, wages for staff, expenses and
your living expenses but required daily and weekly editions.

Where does the money take?

So I delivered a merchant my
merchandise for cash at a price that is only slightly higher than
the cost was.

Holte me on Saturday but my money so I got louder dirty slips of
paper, of which at the time of Leipzig by his dealings with the
small Thuringian States was flooded.

Each of these small states to be used to mint coins and thoroughly
with paper money flooded the market.

But the same has been made generally available and was considered
the traffic and money.

Besides, I got more coupons but also any industrial undertaking
which has not yet matured, or Ducats the hands is so trimmed, that
I take 3 Taler 5 pennies, as I have been taken, while banker, where
I go needed, often only 3 crowns and received less.

Was similar with the coupons. I was angry this payment method, but
what I wanted to do?

I ballte the fist in the pocket and delivered the goods next week and
brought me the same payment.

My public activities entrepreneurship gradually brought against me.

They refused to give me orders. That was the boycott. Had I not
succeeded outside of Leipzig in other cities, a small group of
customers on my items (door and window handles of buffalo horn) to
acquire, I would be the end of the sixties had been
forced to bankruptcy.

Schlimm gave it to me during the war years 1870-71, in itself the
work faltered.

When I then in the winter of 1870/71, and Liebknecht Hepner in a
hundertzweitägige remand was made, I had my wife one day, the message
can be sent that no more work is required, but had a week assistant
and apprentice to be paid.

It was a bitter situation. But they soon turned for the better.
With the peace began Prosperitätsepoche, which lasted to 1874.
The orders came uncalled into the house now, the customers were glad
when they were served. When I, therefore, in the spring of 1872
with my Liebknecht zweiundzwanzigmonatige fortress prison in Hubertus
Castle replayability, which for me still in prison followed by
nine months, could I work with a business leader, and six assistants
and two apprentices leave.

Spun silk has not, although my wife hard on the posts. The business
correspondence, I led from the fortress and from the prison. It
was bad again, as with the 1874 crash at the same time my article
by competitors of the factory production declined, at prices which
I do with the manual operation could compete more impossible. I
thought out the business up and in a party position to kick, wanted
since the accident that I mentioned in the person of a Party comrade,
the businessman Ferd.

Berka aW Ißleib in a Associé found, in addition to the material resources
necessary business skills and very soon had the necessary technical
knowledge in ways to acquire credit. In autumn 1876, we calculated
a small factory with steam operation, now also in the manufacture
of these articles made of bronze was made in which we soon gained
a good reputation.

Initially, we had to fight hard, because the crisis still raged. My
main activity was now, the customers kept the business and to
travel, which I later, under the Socialist Law, the largest party
of the services could afford.

Once I get 1881 on the so-called small state of siege from Leipzig
had been expelled, and this designation from year to year has been
renewed, I also re-acquaintance between the jails had caused me in
the autumn of 1884 the Associéverhältnis and stepped into the position
of a traveler for the business. I always thought my sacrifices to
prepare Associé no longer responsible to be able to moderate the
value of a company to participate, for the concern he and the principal
to pay. Moreover, I was through my constant distance from the inner
Leipzig swing of the business more and more alienated. So, I
1889, the office of the travelers down and dedicated myself from now
on throughout the writing, by which I long business relationships
with my friends Henry Dietz came in Stuttgart.

I have noticed above that it is often a very different picture made by
my personality. It amused us - my Associé and I - us again. That
was entirely in the outer the idea that you made of me. He was a big,
strong man, the red hair and a red beard had, up to the chest wallte.
Since it came before that if someone came to the office to speak
to me, but I do not personally know, he turned to my Associé.
This confusion is always made us great pleasure. Very Fair voted me
when I one day on a business trip in Tübingen and I was in a wine
of some acquaintances adopted, behind me a citizen in the purest
Tübinger Schwaebisch expressed surprise: "What? The kloine Ma ischt
Bebel d'r? - Similar, I experienced more frequently.

Neither did it in previous years are not uncommon before that, on the
railway travel companions about my person, without knowing
that I am the midst of them sat and listened quietly.

There were sometimes right robbers stories that I listen to it. The
march to Nuremberg in July 1867 after long negotiations between
northern Germany and the southern German states, a contract has come
that the regime of customs and indirect tax ratios in discussions of
a so-called customs should be subject to Parliament that the members
of the North German Reichstag and specially selected representatives
of the four southern states was set. Bismarck had refused to accede
to the wishes of the Government of Baden as the southern German
liberals after full incorporation into the North German Confederation
therewith. The Prussian government supported by the southern
entrance of eighty deputies in the Reichstag only embarrassed advised.
The right to vote for representatives in the Customs House was the
same as for the North German Reichstag. Nevertheless, leaned a large
part of the southern German People's Party, especially in Württemberg,
from the turnout, although Liebknecht and I at a conference in
Bamberg, February 1868, gave us all the trouble, such a senseless
decision to avoid the otherwise meant as desertion before enemies.

Also, a greater proportion of workers associations in Württemberg
followed the slogan of the People's Party. Another part elected, and
since the People's Party was split, it succeeded, several Democrats
for the Customs House through. Anders in Hesse, which at that time
politically divided into two halves was. Upper Hesse belonged to
the North Bund, Rheinhessen and Starkenburg were independently selected
and is now in the Customs House.

Liebknecht and I supported the Democratic candidates in the election
Südhessen agitation and held election meetings for the same from.

On one of these meetings we also came to Darmstadt in the house of
Louis Büchner (the strength and substance Büchner), woselbst
Liebknecht the acquaintance of his future second wife did.

The first was the year before died. Liebknecht made in this election
campaign is the only conquest, just his second wife, the rest as we
moved the proposed home. The democratic candidate in Mainz and
Darmstadt were unsuccessful. In Bavaria and Württemberg agitated at
that time a large proportion of workers associations in communion
with the People's Party for the introduction of the militia system,
as it is in both states to a new military organization.

There was also a success so far achieved as the Württemberg government
with the Board on a duty siebzehnmonatige understanding. In Bavaria,
had the military law committee of the Chamber, under the influence
of the well-known statistician Kolb, even just for a nine-month
service and explains the cancellation of four Kavallerieregimentern
decided. These achievements have been through the Franco-German War
and the entry of the southern German states into the empire fallen.

In Saxony we are agitated, because a new electoral law should be
introduced, for the same voting rights as to the Reichstag. Next
animated suburb of the workers' associations to comment on the North
German Reichstag of Schulze-Delitzsch introduced bill, concerning
the legal status of private cooperatives, far behind in Saxony existing
cooperative law stood back. Other agitations directed against the
Customs House planned tobacco and petroleum tax and against a whole
series of reactionary provisions in the North German Reichstag
submitted a bill Gewerbeordnung that I stated in an article in the
"Workers' Hall" lit.

Zwieschlächtigkeit That the policy of the Association of Workers'
Associations on the duration could be maintained, in the suburb
of us was clear.

After we Gera in the booklet in his hand had given, had exploited the
situation. It had a solid program to be created liked the
implications for the association, what they wanted. In our own view
of the workers came Dresden Education Association, which since
September 1867 had become chairman Vahlteich, contrary, he made such
a request. From Süddeutschland Eichelkraut villages suggested
the same idea. I answered this in the 18 April 1868, the
program's question was discussed by us and approval has been
decided, but it would be to break in the association come. First
Sonnemann was asked whether he would submit draft program and he
refused. Then we requested Schweichel Robert, of Hanover to Leipzig
was übergesiedelt and Liebknecht in the editorial of the "Democratic
Wochenblatt" supported a draft and the Unit on the same On the next
Vereinstag to take over.

We chose, in agreement with Schweichel Liebknecht. Schweichels
conciliatory nature was for this case in which there was still reluctant
Association representative to win better than Liebknecht daredevil
nature. Once it became known to the suburbs wanted the next Vereinstag
submit a program, there were the Liberals, led by the clubs a huge
excitement. The liberal press has in the north and south against us
and tried to go the clubs incite against us. Of the different
sides to me letters with protests and warnings. The chairman
of the Nuremberg Workers Association, a head Rögner in our efforts
to put all possible motives. We wanted our "failures" in the
Reichstag parliament and customs with our approach at the Vereinstag
offset search Preußenhaß guide our actions, etc. We would be deceiving,
however, we would suffer a defeat. I answered, just the current
negotiations in the North German Reichstag and Customs Parliament
showed how much value the workers to participate in the strong policy
in a manner appropriate to their interests should be put.

Political and Social Affairs could not be separated, one supplements
the other .... The worker must be from the standpoint of his interests
democratic .... The current ambiguity in the association could not
go on .... He (Rögner) say that it was wrong, now, where the sharp
contrasts between the state and self-help to lose and a convergence
of both parties had taken place, a new intermediate Erisapfel
throw. I answer, this approach just to express, whether the purpose
of the program .... The contrast would not silence, but through
open debate balanced .... Possible that we are on the party would
suffer a defeat, but I could not hold the planned steps. It was not
the first time that I remained in the minority, and after further tests
in the majority came from. I need only point to my application of
the direct election of the President and suburbs, which since
1865 fought, 1867 won .... Even with the Chairman of the Oldenburger
Workers Education Association, I had a long discussion. I told him
we had a program is necessary so that everyone knows where the
association is, and in suburban and Editorial knew how the majority
government wanted to see.

We have the lack of a clear position often felt. The one we went
too far, the other does not go far enough. I would, however, confess
that if the majority of the clubs is a social-democratic program
opposed, the suburb and the majority of the clubs that Saxon would
then ask whether the association could still belong. Dazwischen
advocated Moritz Müller Pforzheim in the formation of trade unions
and recommended that so as to ensure that the leadership of the
clubs by doctors and professors will be abolished. I answered him on
16 July, that I agree with his ideas about professional organizations
would agree.

The book and cigar workers in Germany were already the example of the
English workers followed, now followed by the shoemaker in Leipzig
and Dresden in the bindery.
_On the contrary,_ It is said (John 5:22): "The Father hath given all
judgment to the Son."

_I answer that,_ If we speak of Christ according to His Divine
Nature, it is evident that every judgment of the Father belongs to
the Son; for, as the Father does all things through His Word, so He
judges all things through His Word.

But if we speak of Christ in His human nature, thus again is it
evident that all things are subject to His judgment. This is made
clear if we consider first of all the relationship subsisting between
Christ's soul and the Word of God; for, if "the spiritual man judgeth
all things," as is said in 1 Cor. 2:15, inasmuch as his soul clings
to the Word of God, how much more Christ's soul, which is filled with
the truth of the Word of God, passes judgment upon all things.

Secondly, the same appears from the merit of His death; because,
according to Rom. 14:9: "To this end Christ died and rose again; that
He might be Lord both of the dead and of the living." And therefore
He has judgment over all men; and on this account the Apostle adds
(Rom. 14:10): "We shall all stand before the judgment seat of
Christ": and (Dan. 7:14) it is written that "He gave Him power, and
glory, and a kingdom; and all peoples, tribes, and tongues shall
serve Him."

Thirdly, the same thing is evident from comparison of human affairs
with the end of human salvation. For, to whomsoever the substance is
entrusted, the accessory is likewise committed. Now all human affairs
are ordered for the end of beatitude, which is everlasting salvation,
to which men are admitted, or from which they are excluded by
Christ's judgment, as is evident from Matt. 25:31, 40. Consequently,
it is manifest that all human affairs are included in Christ's
judiciary power.

Reply Obj. 1: As was said above (A. 3, Obj. 1), judiciary power goes
with royal dignity. Now Christ, although established king by God, did
not wish while living on earth to govern temporarily an earthly
kingdom; consequently He said (John 18:36): "My kingdom is not of
this world." In like fashion He did not wish to exercise judiciary
power over temporal concerns, since He came to raise men to Divine
things. Hence Ambrose observes on this passage in Luke: "It is well
that He who came down with a Divine purpose should hold Himself aloof
from temporal concerns; nor does He deign to be a judge of quarrels
and an arbiter of property, since He is judge of the quick and the
dead, and the arbitrator of merits."

Reply Obj. 2: All things are subject to Christ in respect of that
power, which He received from the Father, over all things, according
to Matt. 28:18: "All power is given to Me in heaven and in earth."
But as to the exercise of this power, all things are not yet subject
to Him: this will come to pass in the future, when He shall fulfil
His will regarding all things, by saving some and punishing others.

Reply Obj. 3: Judgments of this kind were exercised by Christ before
His Incarnation, inasmuch as He is the Word of God: and the soul
united with Him personally became a partaker of this power by the
Incarnation.
_______________________

FIFTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 59, Art. 5]

Whether After the Judgment That Takes Place in the Present Time,
There Remains Yet Another General Judgment?

Objection 1: It would seem that after the Judgment that takes place
in the present time, there does not remain another General Judgment.
For a judgment serves no purpose after the final allotment of rewards
and punishments. Our clean look and the fact that we arrived by
train, the border officials deceived, they could pass us without
challenge. With cold and heavy snow fell meterhohem the journey
on foot through Tyrol. The cold and the snow drove the chamois from
the mountains down which we Lockrufe on the march at dusk heard.

We were very surprised, fencing plenty of money to maintain, and
copper pieces in the size of today's two pieces of Mark. When we on
the first evening in the inn came, we were hard on the burden of
erfochtenen coins. When we do the next morning our little bill,
we had half the host table with these copper coins cover.

It turned out that the same in a few weeks were worthless because
the new Austrian government had released coins. So dissolved the
mystery of the great generosity, we were glad to be worthless
money going to be. At last we marched after a series of days
immediately after Reichenhall Salzburg, we are in a wonderful afternoon
sunshine reached. We were as spellbound as we march with a lower
back mountain (the Mönchsberg) the city with its many churches and
Italian design, topped by the festivals of Salzburg, saw ahead of us.

What struck me later in life appeared as a mystery, was that I of
all the marches, where I often until the skin was soaked and
miserable froze, never a serious illness davontrug. My dress was not
such a strain adapted, woolen underwear was an unknown luxury and
an umbrella would be a wandering boy craft an object of ridicule
and become Hohner.

Often I am in the morning still wet clothes geschlüpft the day
before and soaked the next day the same fate experienced. Youth
overcomes a lot. In Salzburg, I found work, while my travel
companion, after I gave him with the rest of my money after forces
ausgeholfen, traveled on to Vienna. In Salzburg I remained until the
end of February 1860. Salzburg to know that its location is one of
the most beautiful cities in Germany, because then it still belonged
to Germany, but it is in shouts, in the summer a lot of rainy days
to have. An exception was the summer of 1859, the wonderfully named
had to be. The summer of 1859 was also a summer war.

The war between Austria on the one hand and Italy and France on the
other side was kindled in the north of Italy. This was the life in
Salzburg was a particularly interesting, as the masses of all
military weapons classes and nationalities singing jubilantly and
moved to South Tyrol. A few months later came the arms back down as
a defeated, followed by cars with hundreds of wounded and ailing. But
first there was joyous confidence of victory. I was on the political
events so excited that I am on Sundays, for other days, I had neither
time nor money, not from the Cafe Tomaselli went until almost
all the newspapers I had read. As Preuße had at that time in Austria
that a severe standard Prussia hesitated, Austria to come to their
aid, the Austrians saw as a betrayal. As a good Prussian, which I
then was, I examined the Prussian policy to defend, but that came to
resent. More than once I had myself removed from the economic table,
I wanted not a beating einheimsen. When the voluntary Tyrolese hunter
from Vienna, Lower and Upper Austria to Salzburg and then came her
aufschlugen Advertising Bureau, grabbed me like the adventurers.

With another colleague, an Ulmer, reported us as volunteers, but
received the answer that they do not need foreigners could only
Tirolean would host. Was it not here now with the Mitdabeisein,
so I decided that now was reported that Prussia mobile make myself
at home as a volunteer to report. I immediately wrote to my guardian,
he let me use some of this money to send thalers travel.

After some time came the money - six thalers -, but now I took the
same money as a travel no longer, because now was the Peace of
Villafranca has been closed. The war came to an end. In contrast, the
money made me good service, when I next spring went to Wetzlar.
Wages were also in Salzburg - as everywhere else in the turnery - bad.
There was saving hard. I had the first in late winter skirt bought on
hire purchase, and as a conscientious human being, I not only saved,
I darbte to the weekly rates of pay to be able to. It pushed me to
make a big concern. The work was scarce, and I was afraid, as Youngest
in the workshop after the New Year to receive the termination.

This was the champion by my colleagues. As I have her and the master
congratulated on New Year's Day, she gave me the comforting assurance
that I am up to my home could stay in work. It occurred to me a
stone from the heart. Involuntarily I thought of the New Year's
reception, the Austrian envoy, Baron von Hübner, the year before at
the Tuileries in Gratulationscour had had in the speech to Napoleon
Hübner than usher to the Italian war was. In Salzburg, there was an
association of Catholic Gesellen with over 200 members, including not
less than 33 Protestants, almost all of Northern Germans, there
were.

I also met at the club, from the reasons already mentioned above.
Chairman of the Association was a Dr. Schoepf, a professor at the local
seminary.

Schöpf was a young, beautiful man with a very amiable and jovial
nature. It is the Jesuits have belonged. Schöpf knew of course that
a number of Protestants belonged to his club. In a club meeting one
day, he said openly that he prefers the Protestants because they are
diligent to the visitors of the club included. Every Sunday evening
he held a heavily attended lecture is always of a pure morality talk
was that everyone why he always had faith
without doubts could visit.

I was with Dr.

Schöpf known, and at his invitation, I visited him more often Sunday
afternoon in his apartment, where we are including on the situation
in Germany and Austria maintained, and he expressed surprise-free
views.

Christmas brought up, and it should look like usual by the association
held a Christmas party. The club had a small band and a choral society
formed. This should be the best opportunity to give lectures.
Also, according to Dr. Schöpf proposal a number of members, the
various German tribes belonged, declamation recite. I was as a
representative of this Rhinelanders chosen.

I had a poem, "The cigars and the people" present. The exercises were
held in Dr. Schöpf apartment, where he deals with the beer and bread
regalierte. These exercises happened to me that I almost always an
error in Schlußreim made by saying a word anwandte, probably to
rhyme, but not the meaning of the poem fitted.

Dr. Schöpf warned me strongly, but yes on the evening not to make
mistakes. The Holiday (Dec. 19) came from. The festival lived an
illustrious company! The Prince Bishop of Salzburg, the abbot of St.
Peter and a number of other clerics, including representatives of the
authorities. Finally came to my lecture series. Shortly before my
appearance exhorted me Dr. Schöpf again, yes I am in eight to take
what I promised him solemn.

But with the fate of superpowers is not a federal ew'ger to weave, and
the fate eilet fast. Once I made the speech errors, as in the
background of the hall Dr. Schöpf arm appeared to me with his fist
threatened.

The accident was happened, I think most have not even noticed. In
addition, the celebration was very comfortable, and I went, without
damage to my soul made to have fun at home. In March, the St.
Josefstag, in Austria, a high holiday. St. Joseph is, as I already
said, the patron saint of the Catholic Gesellen clubs. Some time
before that day was Schöpf a strong speech to the Catholic members
of the association that they complete on this day want to go to church.
He knew well, he said that young people are happy about pressure,
but this time it does not go, you should not blamieren him, because
the Empress - the widow of Emperor Ferdinand who lived in Salzburg -
the lot for the club doing, it will surely learn. In the afternoon,
he smilingly added, then we make a pilgrimage to Maria Plain, a place
of pilgrimage, whose church on a hill in the middle of the level,
a good hour from Salzburg, is beautifully situated. There will be
at the cost of a barrel of beer fund designed to pay it the second
that he was sure no one is missing. Everybody laughed. I think he kept
quite. The pilgrimage took place, we non-Catholics marched wohlgemut
and completed on the train, behind the flag, the Altgeselle contributed
to the St. Joseph with the Christ in the arms was displayed. In
Maria-Plain arrived, we besahen on the richly decorated church. Then
it came to drink. The barrels were emptied quickly, some even went
shaky step back to Salzburg. The train was dissolved. As the
flag with the St. Joseph came back to Salzburg, I still do not. Dr.
Schöpf, I and the Hanoverians came together to back. In the city, he
led us in a cafe where we played a game of billiards. It was my first
and last, which I played in my life. Of course we lost two, but Dr.
Schöpf paid. At the end of February 1860 I traveled back home. Some
thirty years later sent me a Knight v. Pfister Linz from a letter
to Berlin, in which it stated: he had to travel to Berlin and
I want to take this opportunity to give me a greeting from Dr. Schöpf
canon in Salzburg will bring, but he was through illness on the trip
have been prevented, then send me a letter whose greeting. Why is
my Dr. Schöpf remembered, I have remained a mystery. He could not
possibly assume that the nineteen to twenty-year-old journeyman Drechsler
young - if he's ever entsann - the later Socialist Reichstag deputies
was. Such deep impression I had certainly not done to him. I take a
lot more to that fellow from the Center, which I sometimes told
my Salzburger Interests, the canon had informed.

When I start of this century after a long time once again came to
Salzburg, was Dr.

Schöpf died some years earlier. The jovial, cheerful nature and the
full joy of life he is to have kept his end. I want the messages
on my Salzburger not stay close without even mention of an operation,
then the young people among us and tells much belacht was. At that
time lived in the summer of King Ludwig I of Bavaria, as you know,
because of the Lola Montez affair, the government put down in
Leopoldskron Castle, near Salzburg.

The king, a highly aufgeschossener Lord, in the gray summer
suit, his head with a large, slightly battered straw hat and covered
with a sharp stick in hand, more often at our workshop
vorbeipassierte, loved it, in the outskirts of Salzburg walks alone
to make. One day he made such a back and looks like a boy is
abquält, apples from a tree herunterzuwerfen. The King holds
the boy and says: "Look, that you must do so!" and hurls his stick
with the best of success in the branches of the tree. That, however,
had from the nearby home, the farmer observed hochrot now the rage in
the door and joined the king, whom she did not know, zurief: "You
old Lackl, shame di net, include the Buam Aepflstehln z'helfe !

The king took his stick and trollte are away. The next morning a servant
appeared and
gave the farmer a guilder with the remark: it was for the apples,
yesterday the Lord of the tree had beaten.

They questioned, for the Lord who had
made it very surprising answer: the King Ludwig.

If I make a late King of Bavaria Fruit accuse sacrilege, I will
truthfully add that I, too, in this relationship is not without sin
and had miscarriages.

There were the gorgeous
peaches in mirabelle garden, which belonged to the Prince-Bishop,
it was my eye.

I was able on several walks in the garden of temptation not
resist some of the fruits of me to adapt. I suppose, the Prince
Bishop of fruit, my outrage is not harmed, and I got the delicious
fruit. Even my pangs disappeared when I read that St. Ambrose,
who towards the end of the fourth century bishop of Milan had been
expressed that: "The nature of all goods to all people _gemeinsam_,
because God has created all things, for the enjoyment _damit all
collectively sei_.

Nature has therefore the right of the community creates, and it is
only the _ungerechte Anmaßung_ (usurpatio), which created the
property right. "Could I do shinier excused, indeed justified?

Back to Wetzlar and more! On 27 February 1860 I joined the home.

Railways were at that time in the southeastern Bavaria has not, and
then traveled to the lad at the cheapest craft on foot when he was
a bit of fencing moved up.

The weather was miserable again.

When I one day snowfall in stormy weather, my face, hands in trouser
pockets, the floor under the arms and the Hutkrempe face drawn on
the road over the Franconian country stapfte back, I was suddenly
packed by the arm and in the ditch hurled.

When I surprised aufschaute, it was the horse in front of a oncoming
wagon to me, which I wisely packed on arms and was hurled aside.

The stormy weather approaching, I had the wagon neither seen
nor heard.

To the middle of March, I came after more than two years of absence
to return to Wetzlar.

Militäraushebung When I was due to general weakness in the body for
a year back.

The same happened to me the next few years with the provision in Halle
aS, so I finally was dismissed as militäruntauglich.

Meanwhile, I resigned because a job in the Wetzlar not to have been
at a Jewish master in Butzbach Drechsler, two miles from Wetzlar,
in the works.

But when the season was always nice and one day three of my school
friends with the Berlin on his back in the workshop came to me and
announced that they are on the journey to Leipzig though, "because
it moved me more powerful," as it is in the craft fraternity song
states, and after them.

I promised my friends, within three days to follow, and hoping they
catch up, if they are not too large marches made. I could offer this
risk, because I was in marching to that time, nobody on. I had not
yet had the slightest desire, Leipzig and Saxony to learn, and it
arrived to me, I would Leipzig and Saxony were not seen.

And yet it was this trip in more than a decisive direction for
my entire future. To decide the chance very often on
the fate of the people. I would like to turn that I get from the
sentence: the man is his happiness blacksmith, think little bleeding.
Man follows only the circumstances and relationships that surrounded
him and for his necessary action. So even with the freedom of its
action very windy ordered. In most cases, the human consequences of
his current action is not overlooked, recognizes only later, to what
it led him.

A step to the right instead of left, or vice versa, would it in very
different situations have, in turn, better or worse than that might
be in it on its way has come. The wise as false step, he usually only
at the consequences. Often it is also the correct or incorrect nature
of his action, not for consciousness, because he is aware of the
possibility of the comparison is lacking.

The self-made man exists only in very limited extent. Hundreds
of others who have other outstanding characteristics as the one
that came on top of, remain hidden, and are based on live, because
their adverse circumstances Empor comment, that is the correct
application and use of their personal characteristics prevented.

The "fortunate circumstances" only give the individual the right
place in life. For infinitely many, this is not the right place, is
the life table, not covered. But the circumstances are favorable,
it must, however, the necessary adaptability exist, to take advantage
of it. That can be the personal merit of the individual view. I
brought three friends, even before it had reached Thuringia, and came
just in the one that already had sore feet, helpful under the arm
to take the journey through what of places in the residents often
aroused hilarity. We passed Ruhla, Eisenach, Gotha, and came to
Erfurt. Here we stayed for the first time in a Christian youth hostel
association. But only once and not again. The entrepreneurial Mucke,
insidious nature of the father's Hostel widerte me.

In the evening we had together on the command go to bed. When we
first floor erstiegen had opened the door to a small room, and a
chorale melody sounded to us that a smooth gescheitelter, light blond
lad played on a harmonium. We were surprised, curious about
the things that would come . Then the father joined the hostel on a
podium and read from a hymnal a verse line by line before. The
quoted line, we had accompanied by the harmonium nachzusingen.

Was similar to me in a Catholic Gesellen Vereinshaus not happen.
In Munich, for example, was on the wall of the cellar, where we slept
for two, a printed prayer struck with the request that is before
going to bed to pray. From a moral compulsion does not track. I
repeat, as it has in the Catholic Gesellen clubs has become, I do not
know. In Erfurt began the process described to us to have fun. We
roared like lions presents the melody with the quoted text. Then went
higher up in the dormitory.

Once properly our shirt collars to foreign residents had been
investigated, we went to bed. That distant father, the Hostel with the
light, and darkness was black. Now it went under the dozens of
young people, among whom almost all the German country teams were
represented, a mocking Ulken and go, as I have not yet had come to
the ears. The hilarity reached its climax
when in the distant corner of the hall from a sleep Genosse
Württemberg Schwäbisch undistorted made some humorous remarks.

It was late, the noise to an end.

Next day we marched to Weimar.

It said my companion, not to go, because all three had their feet
wundgelaufen; they wanted with the train to Leipzig. I protested
against it, because my money was very scarce, and what if there is no
work in Leipzig was? But nothing helped my protest, I did not want
to travel alone, so I had to ride. On 7 May 1860, 11 clock at
night, we arrived in Leipzig and asked us through to the hostel
in the Great Fleischergasse.

When we next day at the beautiful Maiwetter the city and in full spring
splendor are promenades visited, I liked immensely Leipzig. I was
also lucky and got work, and in a workshop in which I know the
article to which I later made independently. I met twenty-four
hours later in Leipzig, it would replace another been filled. So
here again 'a moment of happiness "about my future. For the second
time I worked in a larger workshop. There were five colleagues
and an apprentice beside me busy. Meister and colleagues liked me,
the work also, when something had to learn.

But what I did not like was the bad coffee, the morning we were
given, and the quantity and quality to very poor lunch. Breakfast,
snacks and dinner, we had to ourselves. The bed was the master, and
we slept seven man in a spacious floor chamber.

I started very soon to the diet to rebel. In a few weeks, I had
colleagues so far that they are becoming a common complaint with the
master understood, but we agreed to jointly set the work, if our
appeal would not succeed. We therefore threatened with a strike before
one of us had heard this word.

The shape of the defense was just out of the thing itself, the
master was very enter, he said he does not understand the complaints,
it taste the food excellent. That was, of course. He ate with his
family and later when we got another meal. That he knew not.
After repeated negotiations, we reached that we are against appropriate
compensation for his side which could be crystallized Selbstbeköstigung,
where he, as he claimed, nor profited financially.

He had his wife more for our meals have to pay when we called. Later
we achieved through persistent lying Stay in bed, that the beginning
of the work of tomorrow 5 clock at 6 clock has been delayed. Later,
we also work through the piece to which the master is not wanted
because he was afraid that delivered poor work to get where he is
mistaken, as he was convinced afterward.

Finally, we also obtained the housing except the home. My entry in
the labor movement and public life. The acquisition of Regency
in Prussia by Prince William of Prussia, the brother of King Friedrich
Wilhelm IV, and the Italian war, the people had powerful
aufgerüttelt. The pressure of the reaction years, Since 1849
weighed on the nation, was diminished.

Specifically, it was the liberal bourgeoisie, which now become
politically active began after it during the reaction years economic
development was strongly encouraged and very much richer had become.
After all, can then develop their stand no comparison with the
development, its economic system after 1871 and especially since the
nineties of the last century has
acquired.

The bourgeoisie now demanded their share of the state stores, they
wanted not only in Prussia parliamentary prevail in their vast
majority of them desired a unity of Germany under Prussian tip to
all of Germany politically and economically to a uniform principles
led Government to make such by the Revolution of 1848 and 1849 and
the former German parliament has been unsuccessfully tried.

This concern came through the founding of the German National
Association in 1859 expressed its President Rudolf v.

Bennigsen was. The appeal of the Ministry altliberalen Auerswald-Schwerin
by the Prince regent schwellte the hopes of liberalism. The
published program of the Prince Regent had high hopes certainly is
not justified, but it also named his past and his role in the
revolutionary years, would protect. But the liberal bourgeoisie saw
a new era befall. Liberalism is always hopeful beatified as soon as
he just a liberal sham regiment beckons, so much disappointment,
he also witnessed over the decades.

And in this way, too, certain things which are not
sensible are termed sacraments as it were, in so far as they are
signified by certain sensible things, of which we shall treat further
on (Q. 63, A. 1, ad 2; A. 3, ad 2; Q. 73, A. 6; Q. 74, A. 1, ad 3).

Reply Obj. 2: Sensible things considered in their own nature do not
belong to the worship or kingdom of God: but considered only as signs
of spiritual things in which the kingdom of God consists.

Reply Obj. 3: Augustine speaks there of sensible things, considered
in their nature; but not as employed to signify spiritual things,
which are the highest goods.
_______________________

FIFTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 60, Art. 5]

Whether Determinate Things Are Required for a Sacrament?

Objection 1: It seems that determinate things are not required for a
sacrament. For sensible things are required in sacraments for the
purpose of signification, as stated above (A. 4). But nothing hinders
the same thing being signified by divers sensible things: thus in
Holy Scripture God is signified metaphorically, sometimes by a stone
(2 Kings 22:2; Zech. 3:9; 1 Cor. 10:4; Apoc. 4:3); sometimes by a
lion (Isa. 31:4; Apoc. 5:5); sometimes by the sun (Isa. 60:19, 20;
Mal. 4:2), or by something similar. Therefore it seems that divers
things can be suitable to the same sacrament. Therefore determinate
things are not required for the sacraments.

Obj. 2: Further, the health of the soul is more necessary than that
of the body. But in bodily medicines, which are ordained to the
health of the body, one thing can be substituted for another which
happens to be wanting. Therefore much more in the sacraments, which
are spiritual remedies ordained to the health of the soul, can one
thing be substituted for another when this happens to be lacking.

Obj. 3: Further, it is not fitting that the salvation of men be
restricted by the Divine Law: still less by the Law of Christ, Who
came to save all. But in the state of the Law of nature determinate
things were not required in the sacraments, but were put to that use
through a vow, as appears from Gen. 28, where Jacob vowed that he
would offer to God tithes and peace-offerings. Therefore it seems
that man should not have been restricted, especially under the New
Law, to the use of any determinate thing in the sacraments.

_On the contrary,_ our Lord said (John 3:5): "Unless a man be born
again of water and the Holy Ghost, he cannot enter into the kingdom
of God."

_I answer that,_ In the use of the sacraments two things may be
considered, namely, the worship of God, and the sanctification of
man: the former of which pertains to man as referred to God, and the
latter pertains to God in reference to man. Now it is not for anyone
to determine that which is in the power of another, but only that
which is in his own power. Since, therefore, the sanctification of
man is in the power of God Who sanctifies, it is not for man to
decide what things should be used for his sanctification, but this
should be determined by Divine institution. Therefore in the
sacraments of the New Law, by which man is sanctified according to 1
Cor. 6:11, "You are washed, you are sanctified," we must use those
things which are determined by Divine institution.

Reply Obj. 1: Though the same thing can be signified by divers signs,
yet to determine which sign must be used belongs to the signifier.
Similarly, he recommended establishment of cooperatives for communal
use of workshops to train staff, as the best means to promote
national welfare and the autonomy of the civic workers. In this
resolution was particularly important to note that this all goes
according to Schulze-Delitzsch proposals should be implemented.
Similarly, workers and employers together the formation of such
cooperatives, a view that only in a standing position on petty
Assembly approval could find.

Finally spoke Vereinstag for the creation of pension and
disability insurance funds that are capable of "some concern at
least partially to eliminate." Here at least was no estimate of
such funds overnight before. In the organization issue was the formation
of Gauverbänden with monthly meetings of the delegates advocated
for the creation of new clubs to encourage and support the existing
clubs to maintain the circulation.

I took the points in this zweitemal the word to me against the
admission of free workers' representatives meetings to
pronounce. Based on my experiences then led me to these meetings
that I have not had impressed. It lacked the participants in the
preparatory education, in the clubs would be reached, and so they
followed the current impression that a skilled speaker obtains.
The pitfalls of association laws I feared for the time being not
so far would have us at least in Saxony granted leave, but could
be a backlash coming. Gauverbände I felt useful. These designs called
my Leipziger bitter opponent to the Tribune, against my ruling on
the value of workers' assemblies protested. These were much better
than I have described, and with regard to the possibility that the
Law Society strongly against us again applied, should we consider the
representation by free workers characterized as a secure backing. The
organization finally adopted
was: * * * * * i.

It should periodically, usually every year, free associations of
representatives of the German workers' associations to take place
through a lively exchange of personal views and experiences among
the workers themselves to understand their true interests and to
extend these findings into ever wider circles to bring recognition
to II.

Subject of negotiations, everything on the welfare of the working
classes of influence can be.

III. Access to the meetings, the representatives of German
workers' clubs, which are identified as such on the Vereinstag
legitimize by written power of attorney. Exceptionally, even
representatives of free workers' meetings may be authorized
if the Standing Committee, on the examination of the credentials
required to allow it. If the committee approval, it must appeal to
the Vereinstag permitted.

Each club may designate one or more to send five members, but only for
votes, one vote. Each Member may only represent a club. The clubs,
which at one Vereinstag participated, each letter will be invited.
At the same time, the invitation in as many leaves, but in any event,
the "German Workers' Newspaper" in Koburg and Frankfurt "employer"
was published.

Each club, which is on the Vereinstag represented, has a contribution
of two thalers for each Vereinstag to pay. Have the same
contribution to those clubs which did not send representatives,
but all reports and printed material sent to want to have IV.
Each Vereinstag elect a standing committee of twelve members, which
with the procurement of subsequent transactions is charged: 1 The
Committee shall determine the venue and time of the next Association
Day, provided that the last meeting was not explicitly decided, and
shall make the necessary preparations at the places of meeting. 2.

He adopts the invitations and announcements, the registrations,
produces from the tickets, will receive the contributions, the
expenditure and carry out the calculations about it. 3. He is a
provisional agenda and ordered according to the rapporteur and
the same is the preparatory commissions, subject to confirmation
or amendment of the decisions of the association tags. 4.

He shall, in the interim period until the next Vereinstag for the
purpose of promoting and carrying out the decisions of the association
tags. 5. The committee appoints its chairman and determines the
distribution of transactions among its members, he shall submit to
the Vereinstag the bills for consideration and approval. The
meetings of the Committee are always at the residence of the respective
chairmen instead. The validity of a decision is all the invitation,
the involvement of at least seven members and the simple majority
of voters is required.

The decision may also be made in writing. Gaps occurring complement
the committee and if the quorum number to obtain it should be
the President. V. The rules for the negotiations of the association
tag is from the same set. VI. The Chairman of the Committee directs
the club days in the negotiations until the Assembly has chosen
its president. VII The meetings of the association tags are public.
* * * * * In the standing committee were elected, among others:
Sonnemann, Max Wirth from Frankfurt aM, villages acorn-Mannheim,
Dittmann-Berlin, etc.

The soul of this new organization was Sonnemann, the Secretary of Works
and over the real line. The means that the committee from the
organization was available, were very insignificant, and even the
small contribution of two thalers per year, many clubs are not paid.
Sacrifice for a common purpose to bring this were the workers
antisozialistischen clubs not to have it made it very unfavorable for
the Lassalleanern. Because the funds were missing, turned
to the Committee during the summer at the National Association and
has received from these 500 thalers, which is also in the next two
years was paid. Just turned Sonnemann personally on a number of large
business to benefit from these resources to obtain. But the aversion
to everything that workers association says, was even then
instinctively Bourgeois at our place, and it flowed from the
contributions of this page very scanty.

Here I would like an event to talk about, although only in later
years (summer 1865 ) happened, but forty years later in the Cologne
newspaper "for me in a bad way exploit attempts. In Saxony was the
fight against the followers of Lassalle particularly fierce.
The time for the highly developed industrial relations in Saxony
seemed for a socialist ideas particularly favorable ground to offer.

But the agitation to be able to operate, we lacked the means. What is
up with our agitation, it is not reached, although the speakers were
miserably paid. To set one day Dr. Eras Weithmann and writers - a
Württemberger, which led katilinarische existence - and that kept
overflowing wrote a letter to the Board of the National Association
at collecting money for the agitation against the Lassalleaner asked.
I was only after the letter, and they were on their request my
signature, also signed and Eras Weithmann. The Cologne newspaper,
"this letter and my letter of thanks received for 200 Taler - not
300, as they claimed - published a few years ago, said the assumption
that all three signatures of touched me.

Against this suspicion, I decided to keep me. In the letter of thanks,
I made that we named for the literary clubs intended to obtain, and
could the Board of the National Association in its influence
in the relationship with the book dealers claim that they left us
with this cheap. That he granted the support, showing that he is more
interested in the movement, when you accuse him verschiedenseitig.
The money was, however, including travel related to agitation, but
it was issued very sparingly, because when the end of 1866 and early
1867 to describe the agitation for elections to the North German
Reichstag, has been from the 200 or 120 crowns which are now found
their use. That was, however, a use that was not foreseen. But from
1865 to 1866 also changed the situation, and
appeared on both sides such a rapid change in the views, that only
very few on the old position will remain.

The National Association suffered from this transformation most of
all, because from the rapidly dissolving and actually was dead long
ago, when he was in the autumn of 1867 officially decided its
dissolution.

That we get the 200 thalers had angered many. It was named Dr.

Hans Blum, which could not accept. He stayed very committed in the
election agitation against me and me to make the accusation that
we have accepted that money. He had but to make the discovery that
all his effort to harm me, in vain. I take this opportunity to note
that I am never a member of the National Association, as has been
repeatedly claimed.

Thus I do not press against the same opponents at the time, but
alongside all the great material sacrifices that my position and
activity in the labor movement imposed, also a contribution to
the National Association to pay, it seemed superfluous to me,
because my income was a very narrow.

I did myself, with Schulze-Delitzsch to talk about "intellectual honorary
member of the National Association to be. * * * * * In Leipzig we
felt the need, as a counterweight against the occurrence Lassalle
and his agitation against the adherents of a main shock lead.
So I received the order to me with Schulze-Delitzsch for an Assembly
to contact him.

It has declared itself willing to cooperate. In his reply, he addressed
to me that we should be careful especially Saxony, Saxon workers could
have been 1848 and 1849 slope for socialist and communist ideas had.
In the course of January 1864 came Schulze-Delitzsch in Leipzig.
It was agreed that I join the Assembly with a welcoming open Schulze
and then as chairman should be elected.

But I was unlucky. I opened the Assembly, from 4000 to 5000 people had
visited, but remained in the middle of the opening speech - which I
had rehearsed - miserable stuck. My temperament was through with my
thoughts. I would shame before falling into the ground like it. The
end was that, not me, but Dolge was elected as Chairman. I
promised myself now, and never more einzustudieren a speech, and
I'm so good mileage. Schulze-Delitzsch had no nice body,
even his speech was dry and its content is not suitable, to awaken
enthusiasm. He was a disappointment for many. The development left,
he did not give up.

The decision of the Frankfurt-based association tags, the formation
of Gauverbänden to operate, we tried to achieve in Saxony. However,
since the existing legislation stood in the way, we looked at
the ministry's approval after Beust. At a National Assembly in the
summer of 1864 under my chairmanship, met, came the letter from the
Lord v. Beust on reading that the Minister will allow the
Gauverband if the clubs are committed to neither political and
social, nor even with public affairs company.

Then I applied the following resolution which was unanimously
adopted: "The Saxon workers associations are grateful for the gift
of grace of the Lord v. Beust and drag it to request the creation
of a Gauverbandes sight." A second resolution, stated: "The assembled
deputies urge the Saxon workers to work with all the energy for
the removal of the existing law to enter club," wanted the police
officers are not monitored to the vote, because this was a political
act. I fell over with him in a sharp debate, but I said, under
protest, as it is consistent with the threatened dissolution
of the conference. * * * * * On 31 August 1864 contributed to the
Telegraph, the customer through the world, that Ferdinand Lassalle
to the consequences of a duel in Geneva was different.

The impression that this news caused, was a profound. The vast majority
of his opponents breathed, as if from an Alp exempt, they hoped that
it is now with the movement caused him to go to the end. And in fact,
that initially seemed so. Not only was his association with his
death, despite enormous good work only a few thousand members, it
soon came also among themselves in the hair. Then had
unbegreiflicherweise Lassalle in the writer Bernhard Becker, whom he
as his successor in the presidency of the association had recommended
a man elected, which in no direction of his task was. The
fact that some opponents but also the importance LASSALLE just been
talking to an article at the end of 1862, founded Koburger "General
Workers Newspaper," by the lawyer Dr. Koburg in dispute, the
managing director of the National Association launched was.
The same had previously, albeit modest, Lassalle fought, but the
thought did not give him an honorable Tribute to devote to its conclusion
it stated: "Part of the Liberal Party and the liberal press, the
same part of him most bitter and yet with the fewest legal harassed,
even those which his leg beats most deserved, like now in the quiet
of his death rejoice.

We deplore the death of an opponent, the only injustice or limited
permit may, with the usual dimensions to measure. " Know, drove the
Countess Hatzfeldt, the longtime intimate friend Lassalle, with
the corpse of the deceased friend, a formal cult by using the same
for the purpose of holding the dead celebrations throughout Germany
wanted to lead, a plan of her intervention on relatives of Lassalle,
the government has been crossed .

On the news that the corpse will happen LASSALLE Mannheim wrote
Eichelkraut villages Sonnemann at a letter, which I gather from the
following posts, because they show how individual already on our side
that was the situation. The letter reads: * * * * * " Dear friend
Sonnemann! Lassalle The corpse is on Friday, as I Reusche from
Geneva telegraphiert, dahier and arrive at the steam boat moved.

Like him, we have faced in life, but we were unanimous on the merits,
the great mass of our people to help and I believe we have now
learned that no general right to vote and thereby induced transformation
of the current conditions on state aid is not a radical can be
expected.

Perhaps the present an opportune moment, from our side that
something happened, an association of the two currents due to a
corresponding program, and thus bring the dahingeschiedenen Kämper
a monument must be set.

A little more moderation on the other and a little more determination
on our part could result and the only good thing, because the tone
of the current Philisterhaftigkeit liberalism but must be
driven if they are the next targets should go forward. This is
a picture of me, which I am not the absence, and tell you to hear
your view, then to our friends, perhaps a step to take, under the
circumstances of his broader consequences -- in the opposite sense
nothing can harm. Also, I have the indefinite feeling that we are in
Leipzig [2] but energetic decisions to be: because everything
on the principles to succeed and we will probably not oppose the same.
vagueness and half-good for nothing; they will not even fit for the
right solution to prepare .... I will not shirk the task may be,
of corpse LASSALLE the escort to give.

Some friends will do the same. I do not know if I invite the
Association to because it could be misunderstood because many people
do not understand and even more not want to understand that
we can recognize Lassalle, without fully agree with him to go. "Finally,
he asks Sonnemann, tell him his point of view.

In a postscript reads:" Would you as president of the union workers
are not made to come here and the opponents to give the honor?
If you want this, telegraphy, then what I'm going to the time of arrival
of the corpse as soon as I know, also be transmitted. "* * * * *
What Sonnemann replied to this letter, I am not aware of any event,
the proposal was not taken into account Eichelkraut villages.

There was still plenty of water to the Rhine hinunterfließen
before similar, such as acorn villages wanted fulfilled. After the
Standing Committee at the request of the Gewerblichen Education
Association, had decided to Leipzig, where the next Vereinstag hold,
made the newspaper on the other hand, workers Koburger opposition.
It was impossible that Mr v. Beust ruled Saxony to hold a Vereinstag
was possible, and they opened up the decision on the debate. The
only clubs, which the newspaper followed Koburger workers were
badisch put on their Vereinstag voted in this sense.

Some doubts about the holding of a club day in Saxony were entitled,
because the organization was on the same ground of the Saxon Law
Association completely in the hands of the Lord v. Beust, the rain
or sunshine could provide. To put it not to rain on of them, we
helped the situation so far that, the Standing Committee at our request
agreed to the defense issue, as an eminently political, not the agenda
of the association to set tags. The Local Committee for the preparations
was established by two members of the Forward Association, the
Industrial Education Association and the Association for Training
book, also by Professor K.

Biedermann and a committee member of the Polytechnic Society formed.
The chairmanship was transferred to me. Mr. v. Beust had long sought
after the decision to wait, it finally took place in favorable
sense. The Vereinstag has now been to 23 and 24 Convened in
October and as a fixed agenda: 1 Freedom of movement. 2. Cooperatives,
and consumer associations a., b. Production cooperatives. 3.
A similar curriculum for training teams. 4. Migrant support fund,
whose creation of the many young workers in the clubs was required
5. Age insurance. 6. Life Insurance. 7. Regulation of the labor
market, ie employment verification. 8. Workers' housing. 9. Election
of the Standing Committee. This was for two days consulting a very
rich agenda, whose execution was only possible that the rapporteur
previously published reports and resolutions and reports and speeches
were short. The thoroughness of both was usually a lot to be
desired. Represented, 47 clubs, including all 8 of Leipzig, and 3
Gauverbände: Oberland Baden, Württemberg and Maingau. There was
in Leipzig next to the tray of the book club even in such a mason
and carpenters.

Moreover, the Lassalleaner headed rapidly Fritzsche three other
specialist clubs established, and a cigar-worker, a tailor and a
blacksmith journeyman club. Among the delegates were for the
first time, Dr. Friedrich Albert Lange, representing the consumption
Duisburger Association, and Dr. Max Hirsch for Magdeburger Workers
Education Association. It also was present as a visiting professor
VA Huber, the conservative representatives of the cooperative
idea. Bandow The Assembly chose Berlin for the first chairman, Dolge
and me to his deputies. On behalf of the city welcomed the Mayor Dr.
Koch, the Assembly. Right at the first points of the agenda: freedom
of movement, there was a quarrel with Fritzsche and tumultuarischen
scenes by his followers, the tribunes of the hall (Schützenhaus)
had strong reception. Fritzsche said Lassalle in the sense that the
movement no longer debating, but they Declaring the other hand,
we must demand universal suffrage.

He spoke very provocative and was so demonstrative applause for his
followers. Against this method delegates lively protests. On this
occasion I admired Friedrich Albert Langes talent agents, which
he had success. A vigorous intervention from my side, as Chairman
of the Local Committees, also managed to silence the galleries. The
next day there was again a lively scene, as demanded Fritzsche, nor
the words to be approved once already the end of the debate had been
accepted. When he denied the word was, he protested against the
prevailing terrorism and laid down his credentials. The decisions of
the association of tags were no major concern. Friday Albert Lange,
who lectured on consumer associations, showed itself as a brilliant
speaker. In the standing committee were elected: Bandow, Bebel, Dr.
M.

Hirsch, Lachmann-Offenbach, Lange, Martens Hamburg (a former
Weitlingianer, whose communism but nothing was more noticeable),
Reinhard-Koburg, former Member of Parliament for Mecklenburg , Sonnemann,
Staudinger-Nuremberg, Stuttgart man Ruesselsheim, Weithmann-Stuttgart
and Max Wirth-Frankfurt aM FOOTNOTES: [2], Leipzig was the place for
the next Vereinstag determined. Friedrich Albert Lange. Due to my
membership of the standing committee, I came to Friedrich Albert
Lange in close personal and written communications.

Lange, one of continued and vigorous figure, was a very nice
appearance. He had beautiful eyes and was one of the most lovable
people I know have learned that at first glance conquered the hearts.
Where he was a man of solid character, which was maintained through
life, the reprimand is not bent.

And they did not save him when he was open for the workers arrived. He
was soon one of the "outlaw" and "isolated" in the industrial city
of Duisburg. Between us and the Lassalleanern he took a mediating
position, as his January 1865 book "worker question" shows. If in the
later edition, published in the same position more to the right,
as he also critics of materialism in its history after it is said
that he is inclined to the metaphysical, so I see this as the
consequences of a long and severe physical suffering, which he
unfortunately too soon succumbed to.

Long standing committee was always on the left side and pushed to the
left. I proved it at that time a great personal service
from a purely technical reasons. We were in Leipzig, as I have
indicated, with the General German Workers' Newspaper "has come
into conflict.
Obj. 3: Further, matrimony is a sacrament, according to Eph. 5:32:
"This is a great sacrament; but I speak in Christ and in the Church."
But matrimony was instituted before sin, as may be seen in Gen. 2.
Therefore sacraments were necessary to man before sin.

_On the contrary,_ None but the sick need remedies, according to
Matt. 9:12: "They that are in health need not a physician." Now the
sacraments are spiritual remedies for the healing of wounds inflicted
by sin. Therefore they were not necessary before sin.

_I answer that,_ Sacraments were not necessary in the state of
innocence. We based our knowledge about the daily events from the
Leipzig press, including the democratic "referendum Mitteldeutsche
Zeitung", and what they are not brought, remained alien to us. There
were still lagging at times. Eichler had when he announced, Bismarck
was perhaps for the introduction of universal, equal and direct
suffrage to have only one expression of thought, who was already named
by the Privy Oberregierungsrat Hermann Wagener was publicly
advertised. They thought it a Oktroyierung same, starting from the
view: the three-class vote in May 1849 has been imposed, it may
also be provided by a royal decree again removed and a new electoral
law will be imposed.

The Liberals, in their very large majority and not by the general,
equal, direct and secret suffrage raved, this prospect was
highly fatal, and Lord v.

Unruh, one of its main leaders, they were also publicly expressed
concern. Their aversion to the general, equal, direct suffrage and
secret hidden behind the Liberals at the time of the declaration,
this demand was during the constitutional struggle opportune not only
must the fight with the Ministry of Bismarck to the end before
going to a modification of the option could think .

The fact that at that time the conservative demagogues for the introduction
of the most democratic of all options presented to the stuff, whereas
today they are the most determined opponents are the same, had his
adequate reason. Napoleon III., After
the coup, the general, equal, direct and secret suffrage in France
re-introduced the honette Republic after the June battle with a
worse electoral replaced, was awarded with the same mileage.

Of course obligato exposure by state authorities to the voters.

There were initially under six hundred delegates, only seven men's
opposition, all the rest were imperial Mamelukes.

Only 1863, the opposition rose to 38 and 1869 to 110 heads. Conversely,
in the Prussian three-class voting rights that you had created, a
subservient board to have now a sharp opposition delivered, so we came
to the idea that Napoleon's example to imitate. Another question
is: How did the idea of productive cooperatives with government
assistance in the districts of the conservatives?

And since it seems that Lassalle already in 1862 this idea in his
head and worked his thoughts of his friend and confidant, the Countess
Hatzfeldt announced by then the idea in the conservative circles has
been taken even before they are publicly Lassalle had formulated.
Later, as secretary Vahlteich Lassalle had discovered this, what
ambiguous elements had to Lassalle.

The same was true Liebknecht, who before his Lassalle environment
and specifically warned against Bismarck, as Lassalle said: Pah, I
eat with Mr. von Bismarck Cherries, but he gets the stones. It is
highly probable that the Wagener Eichler privy to the plan with the
productive co-operatives as a plan Bismarck suggested, even before
Bismarck himself was busy. [1] to clarify the role Eichler
and the relationship to Lassalle Bismarck took place in
September 1878 to advise the Socialist Law than I on those transactions
came to speak.

I complained at the time of Prince Bismarck that he is now the Social
Democrats to destroy costumes, which he once famous for its political
purposes to use tried. I initially dismissed the case Eichler out
and offers to this in his name forward in the Leipzig Committee had
made, I went to that mediation of a Hohenzollern prince (probably
Prince Albert, brother of the king) and the Countess with him
Hatzfeldt Lassalle (Bismarck) in combination had come, that his
conversations with Lassalle often lasted for hours and one day even
the Bavarian envoy had been dismissed, the Bismarck wanted to speak,
when he was Lassalle.

Fürst Bismarck took it on the following days, 17 September, in the
Reichstag the floor. I had mistakenly said that the negotiations
between Eichler and the Leipzig Committee as early as September, instead
of in October took place. This Bismarck continued to prove that he
is such contracts could not have because it only on 23 September
was entered into the ministry. Well, he had recalled that _daß Eichler
later claims on him for services which he had not done. In the further
he admitted that Eichler in the service of police reports gestanden_
and delivered them, some of them to his knowledge had come. These were
not on the social-democratic party-related, but in intimate
negotiations of the Progressive Party, and if he is not mistaken,
the National Association.

This was proved how well-founded suspicion in our Committee
against Eichler had been. In addition, Prince Bismarck denied that
he had 60,000 to 80,000 crowns for a productive co-operative have
up your. He had had no secret funds, and where he had the money
to hernehmen?

The same man said, in April 1863 in the Chamber had expressed the
government would, if it appears necessary, with or without the
authorization of the People's Representation war and the money
to take, where they find it - and for many years without the
government spending approval of the board made. When I carried him
about relations with Lassalle, he said: Not he, but Lassalle
had had the desire, to speak with him, and he had him to fulfill
this desire is not difficult. He did not repent. Negotiations
between them had no previous history of what would Lassalle as a poor
devil can offer him? Lassalle had attracted him but extraordinarily,
he was one of the wittiest and lovable man was with whom he ever did
wrong, he is also not a Republican had the idea, which he
zustrebte, the German empire had been. That they would have had points.
Lassalle had been highly ambitious, and whether the German empire
with the dynasty of the Hohenzollern dynasty or Lassalle
should conclude that it was perhaps doubtful, but he was monarchical
and been through. This statement was followed by great hilarity in
the Reichstag. The tomboyish way to Bismarck Lassalle monarchists
stamped, needs no refutation, it is also influenced by Lassalle
writings and letters refuted. After all, was the role LASSALLE
Bismarck to a most peculiar. Based on his very high self-esteem and
its independent social position, he believed, with Bismarck as
power to power to be able to negotiate, even before he had power
behind them.

As the game eventually would be expected, as one need not head to break,
since the death of Lassalle, the end of August 1864, removed him
as a partner. Bismarck also denied that speech, that between him and
the idea of Lassalle Oktroyierung the general, equal, direct and
secret suffrage had been discussed. I did it the opposite does not
prove but believe the words of Bismarck's not. Here is my
authoritative Lassalle, who in his defense speech before the
State Court in Berlin, 12 March 1864, publicly said: "And so I
announce to you because this solemn places, it is perhaps not
a year passed - and
Mr. v.

Bismarck, the role played Robert Peel and the general and direct
suffrage is imposed."

Lassalle could quite impossible for such a language would not be
in his conversations with Bismarck the Oktroyierung of universal,
direct suffrage been considered.

As already mentioned, was this idea, and again, in conservative circles
discussed very seriously, and he found in the liberal camp full
of faith. It was Bismarck, against the decisions of the Board and ruled
unconstitutional in June 1863 against the law and order infamous
Preßordonnanzen adopted, not the man in front of a Oktroyierung
shrunk an electoral system would be, if he promised benefit.

Moreover, it would be such a Oktroyierung of the previously
politically disenfranchised masses in Prussia was not resented. What
is the nature of negotiations with Bismarck Lassalle had adopted,
to speak two letters Lassalle, which only much later were published,
but most have their place. Lassalle Bismarck wrote to excellence!
Above all I have to complain, yesterday to have forgotten you
once again to determine that the _Wählbarkeit bad but all Germans
erteilt_ be.

An immense power! The real "moral conquest of Germany! As for
the technology choice is concerned, I still have last night the entire
history of French legislation and read as little purpose Moderate
found. But I've also thought about it and am now, however, probably
in a position to Ew. Excellency the desired magic recipes for the
Prevention of abstentionism as the submit Stimmenzerbröckelung them.

At the same drastic action would not be the slightest doubt. I
expect, therefore, the one evening from _Fixierung Ew.
Exzellenz_. But I ask urgently, the evening such that we are not
disturbed. I have much choice about the technology and even more
than with other Ew.

To talk about excellence, and an orderly and exhaustive discussion
is the pressing nature of the situation really indispensable need.
The provision Ew. Looking forward to excellence, with great respect
Ew. Excellence devoted F. Lassalle. Berlin, Wednesday 13.1.64,
Potsdamer Straße 13 and continued excellence! I would not insist,
but the external events pushing enormous, and therefore I ask you
to excuse my insistence. I wrote to you Wednesday, I want the "magic
recipe" - spell recipes from the drastic effect - have found.
Our next meeting is, I believe, finally crucial decisions to be
followed, and since, as I also believe that these crucial decisions
impossible longer to move, so I will allow myself, tomorrow (Sunday)
evening 8-1/2 clock thank you vorzusprechen.

If Ew. Excellence at this time is not available, so I ask me another
time as close as possible to try to determine. With great respect Ew.
Excellence devoted F. Lassalle. Saturday evening (16.1.64), Potsdamer
Straße 13th * * * * * Mr. v. Keudell, around that time in the Foreign
Office and was employed by the Bismarck with traffic Lassalle knew
claimed that Bismarck had the marketing of Lassalle aborted
because the latter had become more benign and intrusive.

The last of the letters printed above speaks for such a view. In all
cases, this traffic LASSALLE with Bismarck, as some of his other
actions in 1864, very worrying and could only be risked by a
man like him. Unfortunately, he has with this movement and his
other appearance against the end of his life, others who were not
Lassalle, an example used to enter Abwegen encouraged. It later.
It is in Bismarck's speech of 17 September 1878 also the way he
deals with the production cooperatives with government assistance,
to the dismay of liberals, abfand.

After he admitted that he often hours-long conversations with Lassalle
had and always have regrets when they were finished, he continued: "He
conceded that he also Lassalle concerning the granting of government
funds to productive cooperatives spoke, which was a Case, whose
usefulness he was still confident. " This fascinating idea he
continues. The grant of 6000 dollars from the coffers of the king to
the Weber Deputation from the Reichenbach-Neurode District purposes
of
setting up a productive co-operative also ensure that every means
legally it was a wedge between working class and middle class to
drive, according to the principle of "divide and rule in the power
to hold.

I'm in the portrayal of the events the way a little ahead of things.

Shortly after Eichler presence in Leipzig traveled
Fritzsche, Vahlteich and Dolge as delegates to Berlin, both with
the leaders of the Berlin workers as with those of the Progressive
Party and the National Association of the above points to negotiate.

The fact that the German workers' congress in early 1863 and then to
Leipzig should be appointed, as they agreed quickly. Also on
the agenda of the Congress, from the point of the "holding of a
world exhibition in Berlin" has been deleted.

Eichler was with other workers in the summer of 1862 visitors to
the London World's Fair was to the National Association and a number
of community representatives had sent workers.

In all visited some fifty workers under the leadership of Max Wirth
the London exhibition.

That was the idea of the world exhibition in Berlin.

The negotiations with the leaders of the Liberal delegates satisfied
the Leipzigers very little, as they blatantly after their return
to their reporting communicating.

Beginning of 1863 the National Association held its Annual General
Meeting in Leipzig from.

In a Prussian town they hold, he could not dare, but he
worked for the Prussian head.

Schulze-Delitzsch spoke on 3 January in a large meeting in Tivoli,
in the present House of People's Leipziger workers, a conversion,
then no one would have believed possible.

It was directed to Dr.

Dammer Schulze-Delitzsch's request to express itself on the relationship
of the National Association for the workers. Schulze replied, inter
alia, that the workers, however, should take care about politics,
but, he continued, the worker who has been so bad that he had a
hand-to-mouth lives, the sense of time and to seek public affairs
to trouble?

No, not really! The relief from this paltriness of life for all
people was a friend and especially for Germany a major national
task. And right-workers who used their savings to their situation,
"the welcome, I hereby, on behalf of the Committee members as
spiritual, as honorary members of the National Association."

This speech made in the circles of the radical workers' bad blood,
they showed that the National Association of the workers as members
wanted to keep away, so he rejected the payment of monthly
contributions. Then shortly after that a new Assembly Deputation went
to Berlin - Dr .

Dammer, Fritzsche, Vahlteich - they remained on the ethos of the
relevant personalities to the workers no longer in doubt. Since it
was the young lion Ludwig, founder of the famous weapons factory
Ludwig Löwe & Co., the Deputation led to Lassalle.

Here were the three what they were looking for: understanding their
demands and willing comity. With Lassalle was agreed that
the workers' congress should be postponed further, until he (Lassalle)
his views on the status of workers in state and society in a special
brochure had resigned, its dissemination, the Leipzig Central Committee
should take.

I would like to say here that the change in the relevant persons in
the Leipziger movement outward rather quickly completed, and they
therefore gegnerischerseits accused of fickleness and confusion
made. Sun was still in November 1862 in a large assembly worker at
the request Fritzsche been decided, a committee for the creation of
a consumer association niederzusetzen. And in early February 1863,
ie at a time when the man already in connection with Lassalle
stood Fritzsche reported on a trip to Erfurt and Gotha, on the local
consumer associations and requested the creation of such a for
Leipzig. A decision thereon prevented Vahlteich, which he said the
Central Committee had the matter already under consideration. That
was very wise of him traded because it would have been odd
exception, a consumer association in Leipzig at a time to form, in
which Lassalle already on his reply was that in which it is known
that the consumer associations as a completely worthless for improving
the situation of workers hinstellte. Vahlteich Also at that time was
still in relatively peaceful atmosphere. End of 1862, he published
in the Leipzig "Mitteldeutsche Volkszeitung" a long polemic article
against attacks, in violation of the Central Committee had been
raised, in which he said: that the duty to the future of the workers
erstrebende areastechnical which _höchste moderation beobachten_.

By contrast, in this declaration Vahlteich over Lassalle, who still
stand by a worker said, also, by the sentence set up: a special status,
the workers did not, but _eine by the de facto situation created
Klasse_. With the advent of Lassalleschen reply came, however, a
complete change of front guides. You make it a reproach to make
would be inappropriate. In fermenting times are quickly changing
attitudes. The thinking is accelerated. Three years later, when
Germany the disaster of 1866 entgegeneilte, gave it to me and many
of my former comrades in a similar spirit. The rapid transformation
from a Saul to a Paul takes place even without a miracle again and
again. I was in early November 1862 from the Central Committee resigned.
My position in intellectual property education association took my
time, my strength and my interest in the highest degree to complete.
Since I evening, if not a worker or an Assembly Committee
meeting held me in the club zubrachte, I learned the wishes and
needs of the members know better than the chairman of the association.
So, I was soon to be diligent applicant during the committee
meetings and monthly gatherings. My requests were almost regularly
adoption expected. This was my a great influence. At that time I was
still working, which means I had the morning from 6 to clock in
the evening 7 of the lathe are consistent with disruption of the
entire two hours of ingestion of meals.

It was my very great activity in different directions to a money issue.
Also appeared to me in the committee meetings and in the practice
debates very unclear and useless, so I was the resignation from the
committee easier. On 6 February 1863 I had a discussion with
Vahlteich. This was the forward, I for Gewerblichen Education
Association delegate to the celebration of the Foundation Dresdener
Workers Education Association. At the Community Food Vahlteich gave
a provocative speech in which he said in the old way that the workers
probably political and humanitarian education is to acquire, but not
including elementary education should cultivate.

These latter workers to be granted is a matter for the
state. He brought on the former from a high. The called me on the
map. I polemizes brought against him and a high on the general
education.
Reply Obj. 3: Sacramental grace is compared to grace commonly so
called, as species to genus. Wherefore just as it is not equivocal to
use the term "animal" in its generic sense, and as applied to a man,
so neither is it equivocal to speak of grace commonly so called and
of sacramental grace.
_______________________

THIRD ARTICLE [III, Q. 62, Art. 3]

Whether the Sacraments of the New Law Contain Grace?

Objection 1: It seems that the sacraments of the New Law do not
contain grace. For it seems that what is contained is in the
container. But grace is not in the sacraments; neither as in a
subject, because the subject of grace is not a body but a spirit; nor
as in a vessel, for according to _Phys._ iv, "a vessel is a movable
place," and an accident cannot be in a place. Therefore it seems that
the sacraments of the New Law do not contain grace.

Obj. 2: Further, sacraments are instituted as means whereby men may
obtain grace. But since grace is an accident it cannot pass from one
subject to another. Therefore it would be of no account if grace were
in the sacraments.

Obj. 3: Further, a spiritual thing is not contained by a corporeal,
even if it be therein; for the soul is not contained by the body;
rather does it contain the body. Since, therefore, grace is something
spiritual, it seems that it cannot be contained in a corporeal
sacrament.

_On the contrary,_ Hugh of S. Victor says (De Sacram. i) that "a
sacrament, through its being sanctified, contains an invisible grace."

_I answer that,_ A thing is said to be in another in various ways; in
two of which grace is said to be in the sacraments. First, as in its
sign; for a sacrament is a sign of grace. Secondly, as in its cause;
for, as stated above (A. 1) a sacrament of the New Law is an
instrumental cause of grace. Wherefore grace is in a sacrament of the
New Law, not as to its specific likeness, as an effect in its
univocal cause; nor as to some proper and permanent form proportioned
to such an effect, as effects in non-univocal causes, for instance,
as things generated are in the sun; but as to a certain instrumental
power transient and incomplete in its natural being, as will be
explained later on (A. 4).

Reply Obj. 1: Grace is said to be in a sacrament not as in its
subject; nor as in a vessel considered as a place, but understood as
the instrument of some work to be done, according to Ezech. 9:1:
"Everyone hath a destroying vessel [Douay: 'weapon'] in his hand."

Reply Obj. 2: Although an accident does not pass from one subject to
another, nevertheless in a fashion it does pass from its cause into
its subject through the instrument; not so that it be in each of
these in the same way, but in each according to its respective nature.

Reply Obj. 3: If a spiritual thing exist perfectly in something, it
contains it and is not contained by it. But, in a sacrament, grace
has a passing and incomplete mode of being: and consequently it is
not unfitting to say that the sacraments contain grace.
_______________________

FOURTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 62, Art. 4]

Whether There Be in the Sacraments a Power of Causing Grace?

Objection 1: It seems that there is not in the sacraments a power of
causing grace. For the power of causing grace is a spiritual power.
But a spiritual power cannot be in a body; neither as proper to it,
because power flows from a thing's essence and consequently cannot
transcend it; nor as derived from something else, because that which
is received into anything follows the mode of the recipient.
Therefore in the sacraments there is no power of causing grace.

Obj. 2: Further, whatever exists is reducible to some kind of being
and some degree of good. The organization suffered a small improvement.
The contribution of 2 crowns per year from each club meant the
financial weakness of the Standing Committee. I did so in the leaflets
of the standing committee's proposal, initially per _Kopf_ the club
members a penny per year contribution to rise and the chairman of the
Standing Committee of 300 thalers to remunerieren so perhaps people
who were financially dependent on the position of a Chairman dress
could also be the chairman of Vereinstag directly elected.

Finally, I proposed to the large costs due to the Vereinstag only
every two years to employ - what is not master of my proposal was
- and thus the Gauverbänden a better development. After lively debate,
the Penny contribution made by the Organizing Committee, proposed,
adopted, the other proposals were rejected.

Similarly, the Vereinstag with 30 against 22 votes, that a club
official organ was not necessary. We went through this decision
to a conflict with the publisher of the newspaper Koburger workers
out of the way, the strong notes under the clubs did.

I would like to note here that the existing reports on the club
days incredibly short and very incomplete. In the standing committee
were elected Bandow, Bebel, acorn villages, M. Hirsch,
Hochberger-Esslingen, King Hanau, FA Lange, Lippold-Glauchau,
Richter-Hamburg, sourdough-Gotha, Sonnemann, Staudinger-Nuremberg.

Sonnemann, again, as chairman of the committee had been elected,
refused to choose from. In its place came Staudinger, which, as
experience showed, his task was not grown. Staudinger, an elderly
man, his character was tailor, he should engineer Hirzel-Nuremberg
as a secretary to the hand. Vereinstag never stepped on the part of
various civic leader, a decisive influence on the clubs to
gain so much in appearance as in Stuttgart. All felt that the
German question in a decision entgegengehe. The clashes between the
Left and the Right have always been lively and irritated. The contrasts
between Prussia on the one hand and Austria and the majority of
medium and small states, on the other side were always abrupt. The
joint occupation of the duchies of Schleswig-Holstein by
Austrian and Prussian troops after the defeat of the Danes and their
withdrawal from the two countries that are now in German hands were
attempted, the new conflict situations. The German people
gradually came into a state of extreme agitation.

This mood was reflected in the toasts at the banquet of the
association's tags noticeable that on Sunday evening in the meeting
of the local club tags, the Liederhalle, held in the same place
where 42 years later, August 1907, the first international workers'
congress held on German soil. While the comrades in Hölder
and verblümter way for the enthusiastic Prussian tip, were the
Democrats, and especially their leaders Karl Mayer-Stuttgart for a
radical solution, which we boys, without the word was pronounced as
an advocate for the German Republic installations. Karl Mayer, at
the time of the celebrated folk Württembergs speakers, which awarded
nature a stentorian voice had sat at the table opposite me.

He rose to power with all his lungs and exciting pictures against the
reactionary loszudonnern Bundestag in Frankfurt, the seat of his need
for a democratic unification of Germany possible. In the heat of the
speech he touched skirt and shirt-sleeves in the air and showed a
couple of muscular arms, with gestures which he accompanied his
speech.

Now and then he beat with his fist on the table, plates and glasses
that danced. Of course there was his high in a free, democratic
Germany thunderous applause. The city of Stuttgart had fallen in
expenses and donated us on Monday afternoon with a walk on the
then Schützenhaus a drink Swabian wine with Vesper bread. Disputes
in Koburg appeared at that time a pamphlet, entitled "Germany's
liberation from the depths of ignominy," in open for the German
Republic of propaganda was made, which is obviously not without a
revolution would have been possible. But the idea of revolution was
not deterred. The reminiscences of the revolutionary years were marked
by speeches and writings by participants and bystanders become
alive again.

The fact that a victorious revolution was possible, it believed,
with the exception of Ostelbien almost all of Germany. I have
led, as Bismarck and Miquel with this opportunity to abfanden.
But even the latter friend, Mr. v. Bennigsen, wrote in 1850 to his
mother a letter in which he was discussing the situation in
Schleswig-Holstein thus continued: "As long as the national party
is not governed in Prussia - and even at this moment officer
fluctuate, whether they present government on a serious, calculated
on its overthrow opposition for the next parliament to make - is
the German heldenmütige fight this country in vain.

I fear only to determine that we, to the degree of shame and
bitterness to overflowing, for some years at least the total
subjugation of Schleswig-Holstein experience.

The rest of our European king so much about gender graves but
not by evil memories and dreams alone disrupted.

In no more than a dozen years, it will probably again thunderstorms
and three beat, and from Younger _uns swear several daily in
quiet that one, whether Constitutional or Radical, by promises
miserable at the moment of fear is not to be deceived again. It
is the whole society to America and then send some to explore
whether we a king or president to will._ And will followers v.
Dahlmann Gagern hard again and prevent or even alleviate air ...."
Twelve years later belonged to the writer of this letter, as
president of the German National Association for the influential
people in Germany, so he was perhaps the most influential.

But Mr v. Bennigsen now followed the same policy, which he used
to Gagern and Dahlmann had condemned. The idea of a revolution against
Bismarck's Prussia was inconceivable to him. And as he towards the
end of his life on the Revolution of 1848 and 1849 thought that was
exciting from the debate, which I fiftieth anniversary of the March
18, 18 March 1898, intentionally caused in the German Reichstag had,
and while Mr. v. Bennigsen my main opponent was.

How Lassalle, Marx and Engels on a coming revolution in
Germany thought it is clear from the correspondence between the
same show in the Mehring Dietz-Verlag Stuttgart was. The victorious
Garibaldi train to Naples and Sicily (1860), the author of his
enormous popularity throughout the world eintrug culture, had
faith in the power of revolutionary masses attached.

That one even in very high circles of southern Germany to the
likelihood of a revolution for a German unity was shown by the
memoirs of Prince Hohenlohe, who, after he stated that the
fragmentation of Germany at the time was unbearable, says: This
explains it is that the peaceful, conservative people in Germany
are held then, to explain: we have to get through the revolution
to unity, because by law we do not reach the goal.

And at the 23rd Wrote in March 1866, the Prince Charles of Bavaria
Hohenlohe to me seems a more favorable opportunity _ohne
Revolution_ (also locked in the original) to a federal reform,
etc. If you come up so thought, why not just the bottom? * * * *
* The negotiations and decisions of the Stuttgart club tags on
the freedom of association were a response to similar negotiations of
the Prussian House of Representatives. Schulze-Delitzsch and
Faucher - the latter also known economist, in a Leipzig People's
Assembly in 1864 a serious attempt to demonstrate the social issue
could best be solved if everyone can understand the double-entry
bookkeeping and a really outgoing clock had to cope with Time to
be - had requested that the § § 181 and 182 of the Commercial Code
of 1845, concerning the coalition prohibitions should be repealed.

Strangely, however, they had failed, including the repeal of § § 183
and 184 to apply. Under § 183, the formation of connections among
factory workers, journeymen, assistants or apprentices without police
_Erlaubnis_ be punished to the donors and aldermen of the connection
a fine of up to 50 dollars or imprisonment for up to four weeks, the
members of a fine of up to 20 dollars or imprisonment up to fourteen
days. Under section 184 was to punish the unauthorized departure
from work or to carry out the withdrawal of the same, or gross
disobedience or persistent obstinacy a fine of up to 20 dollars
or imprisonment up to fourteen days. In the "social democrat" JBV
Schweitzer and the Assemblies to the speech made, the applicant
could explain the § 183 had already been fifteen years ago by the
Prussian Constitution and repealed section 184 of the coalition had
no right to do so. This view was also in our series of bad blood, and
the workers Koburger newspaper, which had become ever more decisively,
it attacked the Schulze-Delitzsch and comrades on the sharpest.

The poor behavior of the liberals on this issue looked at the
conservative Oberdemagoge Privy Wagener cleverly exploit by the
Liberals übertrumpfte. He requested that the Commission's request
on the request of the Liberal - because its text allowed doubts - and
reject the Government to submit a bill, by which not only all
the association's right of workers restrictive exception of the
Commercial Code provisions repealed, but also in connection with
such organizations or brought to the execution would be brought,
which made it possible that the workers stand to its due place
within the state and taking his own self-interests to manage and
represent means of.

So forced union associations, established by the law. So
the conservatives in those days than it was, the liberal bourgeoisie
to deduct the water jet. Another matter on which the two parties
working hand in hand, went, was the Cologne festival and his
deputies course. The Cologne Fortschrittler had advanced Prussian
deputies, that is the very large majority of the Second Chamber to
Cologne for a reform detention for 22 July 1865 is loaded, its
highlight a banquet in Gürzenich should be.

Mr. v. Bismarck was the holding of the festival ban, and the Lord Mayor
of Cologne Bachem was weak enough to permit the use of the Gürzenichsaales
retreat. The process made tremendous sensation. When the deputies
came to Cologne, Mr. v. Bismarck
had their meetings by police and military disperse.

We steamed it after Oberlahnstein to run on small Nassauische ground
state to do what in the state of the German occupation, in Prussia
was not possible.

But here too progressive military and made a meeting impossible.

Against this violence spread all over Bismarck raised protests.
In Berlin, in Leipzig and elsewhere was Lassalleaner and Arbeitervereinler
together to oppose the Cologne operations to be strongly protest and
the full freedom of associations and conventions to demand. Equal to
the "social democrat" attracted Koburger "newspaper workers"
against the progressive MPs höhnend and mocking to the battle field,
which is nothing less than brave in this case were stunned.

These operations led an exchange of letters between Sonnemann and
Mrs. Alb. Lange. The latter was on the occasion of the feast was in
Cologne. Sonnemann complained that he (Long) he has no report on the
Cologne operations skillfully, and said that the Social Democrats
va banque played, but they would lose the game.

He enclosed send him a letter on the operations of Cologne Bandow,
who unfortunately in this important time was sick, he may after noting
the same to me that I should sell it on to him (Sonnemann) returning
leave. What the letter contained, I no longer recalled. Lange replied
on 31 July 1865: "What the Assembly at Lantsch (workers' meeting
in Cologne) is concerned, I felt it not useful to much to
say. The atmosphere itself was great. But I will like you to take
responsibility, at the present time fermentation on your own
slogan or greater, and that would be in a report on this meeting,
with its interesting effects have been necessary ....

I see the time much like you as an extremely critical. the way I do
not believe that completely Schweitzer va banque plays. Then the
game would have been lost. It is now the workers, especially in
the Rhineland, not a look for the principle of silence. I think it
goes from the 'Social Democrat' honorable to kill and then, Having
brought to the public organization, the system of secret societies
introduced. (?

AB) Due to the splendor of the Members' festival, I can not not hide.
I have never felt more clearly that the previous Progressive Party
is over, but our time is still not come. Watch and the reins in hand,
expand connections, friends gather, but no parole issue.

_Ob_ we, if it is time to do so, can _zusammengehen will finden_. Let
us meanwhile to maintain the link .... Coming back to the attitude
of our paper (the Flyers) and the political and social crisis, I
recommend again to the social part and interesting detail, but an
objective to keep the policy part _den but sharp, so be open to all
princes as possible. You can handle this in the other party people
do not take as against all, and immutable, and against those who
currently liberal flutes, only recht_. "In a postscript Lange writes:"
I just see that the beginning of my letter is useless mysterious .
About the Assembly at Lantsch the reports are all liberal leaves
totally out of thin air. It was not no stone W. Anger as Rapporteur.
After the meeting organized a voluntary train through the city to
welcome the MPs. Before Hauptwache cheers to the law governing
associations, etc. The movement was the Lassalleanern just completely
out of hand as they went across the Liberals. The people looking
for leaders. It would have been a Wink Anger of stone and I done
what we wanted .... The whole thing is made entirely by himself,
incidentally Nobody headed.

It was, however, come what may, if the government continues. "* * *
* * In the letter quoted at length suggests that it later became
a permanent division in the committee and among the clubs likely
to come. What he said is even clearer made in a letter dated February
10, 1865 at Sonnemann. It stated: "My position on labor issues
Annexes I had initially planned to, my participation in the Committee
of the recording of my correspondence Chen (The workers) as to the
condition, it seems to me now However, in all respects appropriate
to my position to say, even if I am with the majority in a somewhat
sharper opposition should be advised.

The ghosts have to successive burst. "In the years 1865 and early
1866 it seemed for a time, as should the contending brothers in the
labor movement could gather. Apart from the already mentioned cases
in which Lassalleaner and Arbeitervereinler made common cause and
common demands, spoke out on 17

But the sacraments of the Old Law did not imprint a character;
whence they are called "justices of the flesh" (Heb. 9:10) by the
Apostle. Therefore neither seemingly do the sacraments of the New Law.

_On the contrary,_ The Apostle says (2 Cor. 1:21, 22): "He . . . that
hath anointed us is God; Who also hath sealed us, and given the
pledge of the spirit in our hearts." But a character means nothing
else than a kind of sealing. Therefore it seems that by the
sacraments God imprints His character on us.

_I answer that,_ As is clear from what has been already stated (Q.
62, A. 5) the sacraments of the New Law are ordained for a twofold
purpose; namely, for a remedy against sins; and for the perfecting of
the soul in things pertaining to the Divine worship according to the
rite of the Christian life. Now whenever anyone is deputed to some
definite purpose he is wont to receive some outward sign thereof;
thus in olden times soldiers who enlisted in the ranks used to be
marked with certain characters on the body, through being deputed to
a bodily service. Since, therefore, by the sacraments men are deputed
to a spiritual service pertaining to the worship of God, it follows
that by their means the faithful receive a certain spiritual
character. Wherefore Augustine says (Contra Parmen. ii): "If a
deserter from the battle, through dread of the mark of enlistment on
his body, throws himself on the emperor's clemency, and having
besought and received mercy, return to the fight; is that character
renewed, when the man has been set free and reprimanded? is it not
rather acknowledged and approved? Are the Christian sacraments, by
any chance, of a nature less lasting than this bodily mark?"

Reply Obj. 1: The faithful of Christ are destined to the reward of
the glory that is to come, by the seal of Divine Predestination. This
was the ruling on the spirit of the master Vereinstag be dropped.
As the first vice chairman was Löwenstein-Fürth with 62 votes, as
the second Vice-Chairman citizens Goeppingen with 59 votes.

The counterparty on the subject line. The latter is now looking at
finding the agenda to save what can be saved, they demanded the
removal of the program issue of the agenda. Moreover, there were sharp
clashes. "No compromise" is called by various sides, and it was
_en bloc _Annahme the agenda by a large majority. The
negotiations of the association's day took an excellent course.
Nürnberger The meeting was one of the most beautiful, which I
beigewohnt. As rapporteur for the suburbs, I could manage to say
that the new organization is superb and worth the Association in
the past off splendidly.

The clubs belonging to the association counted about 13,000 members.
An attempt Venedeys, program question motivated by an agenda
to eliminate failed. The debate program was accompanied by the general
interest. The end result was that the program with 69 votes, which
together represent 61 clubs behind
them were 46 votes against, the 32 clubs represented, was adopted.

Appealed against this decision to the minority protest, they left
the room and no longer participated in the debates.

Your attempt, under the name German Workers' Federation a new
organization to create failed.

The concerned organizations lost all political significance and are
operated from now on only as an appendage of the various liberal
parties. * * * * * The program adopted was: "The Nuremberg gathered
at the fifth Vereinstag German worker associations said the following
points in his line with the program the International Workers
Association: 1 The emancipation (liberation) of the working classes
must be approved by the working classes themselves be conquered.

The struggle for the emancipation of the working classes is not
a struggle for class privileges and monopolies, but for _gleiche_
rights and obligations _gleiche_ and for the _Abschaffung all
Klassenherrschaft_ 2. The economic dependence of the man of the
work of the monopolist (the sole owner) of working tools is the basis
of slavery in any form, of social misery, belittling the intellectual
and political dependence. 3 Political freedom is the indispensable
tool for the economic liberation of the working classes.

The social question is therefore inseparable from the political, its
solution by these conditions and only possible in a democratic
state. Furthermore, considering that all the economic liberation of
workers facing efforts to date to address the lack of solidarity
between the many branches of work in each country and the absence
of a band of brotherly unity among the working classes of different
countries have failed, that the liberation of the work is neither
a local nor national, but a social problem (task) is that all
countries includes, where modern societies, and its solution from
the practical and theoretical involvement of countries vorgeschrittensten
depends decides the fifth German Arbeitervereinstag his connection
with the aspirations of the International Workers Association. "*
* * * * The decisions of the Nuremberg Workers Association on the
tags program would no doubt be more to what the warehouse clubs now
stood.

Nevertheless, did the majority of the General Assembly of the People's
Party on 19 and 20 September in Stuttgart, as was a change in the
mutual position not to have occurred, they said even with the Nuremberg
decisions about the program agreed to by explanatory notes was
that the state and social issues are inextricably linked and that
in particular the economic liberation of the working classes and
the achievement of political freedom are mutually related.

Even with that of Johann Jacoby on 24 May 1868 held in Berlin Speech
program, it agreed to disagree. That was a measure of insight, the
nachmals the successors of the People's Savings divisor of 1868 is
completely lost. It was particularly present in Nuremberg lawyer
Niethammer-Stuttgart, for a further combination worked. He took
the view that democracy must rise to social democracy, they want their
job. He later would probably be quite underfoot in our series, had
not a sudden death (heart attack) his early life to an end.
Niethammer addition, it was sunny but preferably man who worked
for these decisions.

Sonnemann, at any price of a solution of the relationship between
workers' organizations and People's Party wanted in Nuremberg had
approved the program for which he was not thrilled. It had
everything daranliegen him now that the General Assembly of the
People's Party in Nuremberg, his step-sanctioned. The resignation
of the minority had the agenda of the Association Tags destroyed
because of various issues, several speakers at the former. A
presentation about the Sun's formation of a pension fund, under
government supervision should be found in that contradiction, as all
speakers, especially Vahlteich, there are debates that all care
support workers in centralized by the united workers' unions should
be managed.

The resolution regarding this the Vahlteich and H. Greulich proposed
and unanimously adopted, reads: "Considering that the Anheimgeben
the administration of a general pension fund for workers at the
existing state workers unconsciously to a conservative interest in the
existing forms of government brings with it no confidence can give
[8] Considering that the sick and dying support pension funds as well
as experience the best by _Gewerksgenossenschaften_ launched and can
be maintained, resolves the fifth Vereinstag, the members of
the Association and especially the suburb up for _Vereinigung of
workers in centralized union cooperatives to actively wirken_.

"Germann Leipzig spoke about health Unterstützungskassen, his
unit took it together in the following resolution: The Vereinstag
wanted the association members recommended by deputy of the town to
form a college, the first, a good organization of the treasury, full
self-government, _Vereinigung after the same trades in associations
and discuss the funds' interests in an appropriate Organ_;
_Freizügigkeit secondly within the bank Gewerkskassen_ and management
of health insurance companies seeking capital, but also, thirdly,
the establishment of such funds shall arrange, in which up to now
is still lack of _Dienstboten and Arbeiterinnen_.

In the further course of negotiations Schweichel lectured on indirect
taxes, Liebknecht on the defensive issue. The Commission for the
examination of the management of the suburbs had been set down,
pays tribute to the same high praise.

Books and records were in beautiful order, even though the workload
had increased quite significantly, the suburb paid warmest recognition.
The material compensation for the work done was for the year ended
57 thalers 4 Neugroschen. In the election as Chairman, I
received of 59 votes cast Leipzig 57th This was again the lead for
the next year in the hand. As confidence men were elected: citizen
Göppingen, Notz-Stuttgart, acorn villages-Mannheim, Günzel-Speier,
Sonnemann-Frankfurt aM, Stutt man Ruesselsheim, Dr.

Kirchner-Hildesheim, Heymann-Koburg, Motteler-Crimmitschau, Krause-Mülsen
(St. James), Bremen, Magdeburg, Vahlteich-Maxen (near Dresden),
Dresden Kobitzsch, Upper Winder-Vienna, Löwenstein-Fürth. The
low
representation of northern Germany under the trust men was caused,
that the representatives of the North German clubs, with few
exceptions, belonged to the opposition and the withdrawal of their
clubs from the association had agreed to.

The Workers' Federation published its constitution after a call,
in which he heated accusations against the Nuremberg Vereinstag and
brought it to untruths and deformities could not be missing.

Then I answered in No. 46 of the "Democratic Wochenblatt" under the
September 23, 1868 in a long statement in which I dismissed the
attacks.

Among other things, in opposing the appeal has been said, we
wanted the workers to a "socially-communist views" lure. Then I
noticed a strange position of "social-communist", there are only two
words, and yet they contain, firstly, stupidity, a lie, secondly,
thirdly, a denunciation. The last I saw is that you by the word
Communism is not just the haves, but also the workers in front of
us wanted to make head-shy.

The words "socialist" and "socialism" is no longer enough, because
workers and employers are already accustomed. This would more and
more that socialism is nothing so terrible because the word
communism must excuse to fear the Philistines in the limbs to hunt.
The decisions of the Nuremberg tags Association created the
movement for a new location.

Now could not, so far as the Schweitzer in his Moniteur, the "social
democrat", the members of the General German Workers' Association had
repeatedly proclaimed, by a petty-bourgeois Bourgeoispartei when
he named the Saxon People's Party to designate popular
question, although he just knew that the bourgeois elements in the
same vanishing minority. In any case, they were not stronger than
in the general German Workers' Association, as Liebknecht him next
spring at the General Assembly of the General German Workers'
Association in Elberfeld's face said what he affirmative nod yes.
The agitators also learned that he gave us a few months later to
our fight to Saxony sent. One of the same - L. Sch., Who later transferred
to the Zünftlern and today wohlbestallter Head of a shoemaker's
guild is - said afterwards: "Schweitzer has tricked us bös in the
crowded meetings that we held, we as workers and nothing again
Workers seen.

"He would add: and our success was zero. Liebknecht and I followed
them almost all the meetings that they held, and brought them one
defeat after another in. Now, could no longer be denied that in the
Saxon People's Party and the Federation of Workers Associations
now a socialist party, there was the on the ground of international
standing. The Nuremberg conference and its results made therefore in
the general impression of German Workers Association, which already
against Schweitzer, a deep mistrust existed. The effect appeared
during the following year.

Had then at the head of the General German Workers' Association of the
right man confessed the unification of socialist-minded workers
would now become a fact. Seven years would be harmful mutual combat
the movement spared. Shortly after the Nuremberg Vereinstag was working
in the Berlin club, whose Chairman cancer in the whole dispute
in the federation an ambiguous attitude had to lively debates, which
ended so that a strong minority of austrat the club and a democratic
workers' association launched, the program for the Nuremberg said.
Among the founders of the new Association were among others G.
Boas, Havenith, Charles Hirsch, Jonas, Paul Singer, O. Wenzel.

Later came the same Th Metzner, Milke and Heinrich Vogel in which the
General German Workers' Association or exiting as bird had been
excluded. The club was in Berlin against the Lassalleaner in a difficult
position, they mocked it was a club of officers without an army ,
which is not entirely wrong. But the officers have made something, and
gradually created the missing army. The Achilles heel of the club
Workers Association were weak finances. By Penny annual contribution
was not much use to us, although the association had 10,000 members.
In addition to the taxes for local purposes, forgot one more victim
for the association to bring.

Here we had the General German Workers' Association over. We thought,
therefore, in the suburb seriously remedial change through the
organization. The situation was even more unpleasant for us, as
Schweitzer great agitation tours through Saxony and southern
Germany announced, for which he provides a number of agitators had.
The defense demanded money from us above all that we did not have.

Substantial cash grants also required the "Democratic Wochenblatt",
by December 1868 from the Association was organ. We had the same with
all 10 crowns in his pocket was founded, which still amounts were
small. On a similar "financial basis" were later founded more party
organs. Calculated, they were already with the first number bankrupt.
But the Opferwilligkeit and enthusiasm for a leaf scarcely knew
limits. The leaders had to itself, with ridiculously low sums for
their work content, and they did it. The current generation in the
party has no idea of the paltriness the former states and from the
claims of unpaid benefits. Thus, for example Liebknecht as editor
of the "Democratic Wochenblatt" only 40 crowns a month, and later
as editor of the "People's State" Month 65 thaler. Hepner was
1869, with month 25 thalers employed, the worker part of the
"Democratic Wochenblatt" I wrote for free, for the leadership of
the expedition, I received Month 12 thaler, but I had also hergeben
spaces.

As the 1870 war broke out, I decided on this exorbitant salary. Salary
increases knew it was not. For example, the 1878 "Forward", the
successor of the "people's government, on the basis of the Socialist
Law was killed, had Liebknecht still the same salary as nine years
earlier. But meanwhile he had from the second marriage five children,
more of which was the oldest of ten years no one. In
financial relationship we have in the past - because what I am here
by the Federation of Workers Associations say was also true for the
General German Workers' Association - a Bourgeoispartei become. But
the party has always "pig" had. I have therefore sometimes to
my friends jokingly said: Is there a God, it must give the Social
Democrats have a very dear, because, when the greatest need is to help
the next. In the present case came to the aid of a page, from which
we could not
expect.

I complained just one of our foreign confidence men, which I visited,
our embarrassment, when the postman brought a registered letter.

Sender was Dr.

Village shop in Zurich, 1866 in Frankfurt, I know and with whom I
worked at the Nuremberg Party Congress had renewed the acquaintance.
He wrote that he sent me from him and his friends to manage entrusted
funds, the so-called revolution Fund, 3000 Swiss francs to imagine
that in three installments, I receive and use their bill to him,
I should sit.

Who was happier than I? I took an air of joy jump aback and told my
three friends looking good message. The Revolution Fund, which later
also in the Leipzig high treason process played a role, through its
emergence in the negotiation process is needed that can read, and
helped us even more from the quagmire. But when we are due our opinion
on the decisions of the international Basel Workers Congress on
the basic question and soil and the war of 1870, with retail and
village cooperatives came into conflict, this source dried up.

The Schweitzer arranged agitation against us in Saxony was unsuccessful
in southern Germany, it was of little success has been
accompanied. Against expectations were also in southern Germany
from our clubs forces found it to be offered the top agitators. It was
however clear that by this mutual combat the sentiment in both
parties was always fierce. FOOTNOTES: [7] My invitation letter to the
council reads: At the General Council of the International Workers
Association to London.

Dear Gentlemen! An important process in a large part of the German
workers' clubs is imminent, led me to these lines to you to judge. On
the 5th, 6th and 7 September, the Association of German workers'
clubs in his Vereinstag from Nuremberg.

Among the important questions, which contains the agenda, stands
as the most important "issue, the program" top, which means that it
should decide whether the association still further in the
current principle and unplanned work or persist after certain fixed
principles and direction be. We have decided for the latter and
are minded, the program of the International Workers Association,
as the first number of the "forerunners" contains propose for
adoption, or to be connected to the International Workers' Association
to request.

The majority of this request has already been secured, so no doubt
the success. But we believe that there is a very good impression
if your interest in these to the liveliest contractually negotiations
the International Workers' Association represented by deputies
would honor us and therefore to you the desire and the urgent
invitation to pronounce, for Vereinstag in Nuremberg, one or more
deputy as a representative of the International Workers Association
to send. We are out of the pleasant hope that you will fulfill our
request and we will soon reply to you inclined to be. One kind
can host your lords deputy to keep insured. With greeting and a
handshake, the suburb of the German Workers' Associations. August
Bebel, Chairman.

Leipzig, 23 July 1868. [8] Much later Bismarck also said that small
pensions for the workers the best means are, for him the
existing government regulations favorable to vote, so the idea of
disability and old age insurance. The trade union movement. I am
dealing with the trade union movement only insofar as I believe
myself to their obstetricians to be able to count. It could be the
year 1868 the year of birth of the German unions call, but only with
restrictions. I have already stated above that the Prosperitätsjahr
1865 a large number of work settings in various cities saw, to a
large extent failed, because the workers were not organized and
had no funds.

The fact that both need be present must have been that they are now,
so to speak, with the nose pushed. There were now a lot of mostly
local specialist associations formed, but that they also did not meet,
it was realized very soon. As for Christmas 1865
at the suggestion of the General Fritzsche Deutsche Cigar Workers
Association was founded, it was followed in 1866 the book, from the
outset that the political parties' workers to strictly neutral
attitude, which, however, Richard Härtel in October 1873 not held
in a Berlin meeting of the letterpress to explain: In his capacity
as association president believe he is the best, neither party
formally adapter, "in spirit, however, we include the Socialist
Workers Party Eisenacher program."

Strictly speaking, he could not explain for all books, many were
also the General German Workers' Association at.

Next existed before the 1868 gold Workers Federation with its own
body and the Allgemeine Deutsche Schneider club.

By and large, was of the leaders of the political movement until
then for the organization of trade unions, very little has happened.
It was mainly Liebknecht, who through his lectures in the Leipzig
Workers' Educational Association and in Leipzig and external meetings
on the referendum English trades unionism for union organization
established understanding.

In May 1868 we had also already in the suburb of the founding
Board of unions discussed, but the amount of work and above all the
need, once in association with a program to create clarity, prevented
us immediately with the execution of the plan employed.

In the summer of 1868 was Max Hirsch traveled to England for the
purpose of studies on the local trades unions, which it is situated
in Berlin's National newspaper reported. This liked Schweitzer and
arrange for Fritzsche, deer, by the formation of unions, workers
associations at the Progress Party to captivate hoped to prevent.
Both steps now to act quickly, as I believe it should accept, at
the suggestion Fritzsche, highlighting the importance of the trade
unions fully recognized, but also the organization of the new
foundation differently probably would have if he had a free hand
against Schweitzer had.

The Braunschweiger Fritzsche members requested by the application in
agreement with Schweitzer suggested Bracke had also agreed on it,
at the General Assembly of the General German Workers' Association
at Hamburg on 25 August 1868: The General Assembly declares: 1 The
strikes are not a means to strengthen the foundations of
today's production and therefore to change the situation of the
working class, a substantial improvement, but they are a means, the
consciousness of the working class to promote the Polizeibevormundung
to break through and under condition of correct organization of
individual abuses oppressive nature, such as excessively long working
hours, child labor and the like, in today's society to remove. 2.

The General Assembly instructs the club president, a general German
Workers' Congress to the creation of general trade unions because,
in this sense the effect. The first part of the resolution was
adopted, and the second is rejected. On the other hand decided, as is
known, a few days later at the Nuremberg Arbeitervereinstag
without much debate, the suburb with the formation of unions on the
subject. That was the opposite view from that used in the majority
in the General German Workers Association reigned. After the vote
in Hamburg, said Schweitzer and Fritzsche, she would be regarded as
a worker of Parliament for the Congress for the creation of trade
unions convened. But even against the opposition has been loud,
Schweitzer threatened that if you forbid him this, he immediately
resign and the club would be eliminated. This threat had the desired
effect. The Congress was held because on 27 September and the following
days in Berlin. There were no fewer than 206 delegates attended,
mostly in workers' meetings were elected and represented 140,000
workers. Noteworthy are the following comments from Schweitzer's
speech with which he opened the congress: "England is far
kapitalreichste the country in the world, and yet if the foreign
industry on the Mr English has become, this is done because the
British workers to its capitalists made so much trouble.

The same can happen in Germany, and lighter. _The German workers
can virtually ruin the German industry, if they wish, and they have
no interest in them to keep them as long as these send the
pitiful wages can ...._ The workers, if they determine are organized,
_The German konkurrenzunfähig_ industry, and if the gentlemen capitalists
do not want this, so they may pay higher wages. "
_______________________

FIRST ARTICLE [III, Q. 64, Art. 1]

Whether God Alone, or the Minister Also, Works Inwardly Unto the
Sacramental Effect?

Objection 1: It seems that not God alone, but also the minister,
works inwardly unto the sacramental effect. For the inward
sacramental effect is to cleanse man from sin and enlighten him by
grace. But it belongs to the ministers of the Church "to cleanse,
enlighten and perfect," as Dionysius explains (Coel. Hier. v).
Therefore it seems that the sacramental effect is the work not only
of God, but also of the ministers of the Church.

Obj. 2: Further, certain prayers are offered up in conferring the
sacraments. But the prayers of the righteous are more acceptable to
God than those of any other, according to John 9:31: "If a man be a
server of God, and doth His will, him He heareth." Therefore it stems
that a man obtains a greater sacramental effect if he receive it from
a good minister. Consequently, the interior effect is partly the work
of the minister and not of God alone.

Obj. 3: Further, man is of greater account than an inanimate thing.
But an inanimate thing contributes something to the interior effect:
since "water touches the body and cleanses the soul," as Augustine
says (Tract. lxxx in Joan.). Therefore the interior sacramental
effect is partly the work of man and not of God alone.

_On the contrary,_ It is written (Rom. 8:33): "God that justifieth."
Since, then, the inward effect of all the sacraments is
justification, it seems that God alone works the interior sacramental
effect.

_I answer that,_ There are two ways of producing an effect; first, as
a principal agent; secondly, as an instrument. In the former way the
interior sacramental effect is the work of God alone: first, because
God alone can enter the soul wherein the sacramental effect takes
place; and no agent can operate immediately where it is not:
secondly, because grace which is an interior sacramental effect is
from God alone, as we have established in the Second Part (I-II, Q.
112, A. 1); while the character which is the interior effect of
certain sacraments, is an instrumental power which flows from the
principal agent, which is God. In the second way, however, the
interior sacramental effect can be the work of man, in so far as he
works as a minister. For a minister is of the nature of an
instrument, since the action of both is applied to something
extrinsic, while the interior effect is produced through the power of
the principal agent, which is God.

Preguntamosles then the Earth, which eftaba Acia South, Peoples,
i Maintenances, I had? Dixeron that by that way, going to sea nine
days, Havi vn Pueblo, they called Aute, i the Indians he had a lot
of corn, they had Frifoles i, i Calabaças i eftàr that so close
to the Sea, reaching PEFC, which i was eftos Friends fuios. Nofotros,
vifta the pobreça of the earth, i bad new, of Poblacion, i gave
everything behind us, i like the Indians made us continuously
Guerra, People hiriendonos i Horses, where we were going to take
water, i efto defde Lagoons, so i fu Falvo, which could not offend,
because they caught us arrow vn i killed Tefcuco Lord, that faith
called D.

Peter, who led the Comifario config, remember from there, i go to
the bufcar Sea People that i Aute, we Havi told us afi i start, i
out of twenty five days, that there havianos arrived. The first
day pafamos those gaps, i sticks to see Indus none: but the day
reaching fegundo NPV Lagoon mui mal pafo, because it gave the water
to the breasts, i Havi many fallen trees in it. Since eftabamos
in it, we undertook many Indians, who eftaban abfcondidos behind the
trees, because they do not viefemos others eftaban fobre the fallen,
i start arrow to us, so that we wounding many men, horses i, i took
the guide that we we were before, that the Laguna faliefemos i defpues
of falidos it, feguir around us, wanting eftorvar the pafo, so,
that we took falirnos outside or get stronger, i wish fight with
them, then got faith in the Lagoon, i defde People injured us there,
i Horses. Vifto efto, the Governor sent to the Horse, that faith
apeafen, i will acometiefen walk.

Counter APEO faith with them, I undertook the afi, i entered all VNA
Buelta in Laguna, afi i will win the pafo. In rebuelta huvo EFTA
nueftros some of the wounded, they do not earn good arms, wearing i
Efte
day huvo men who swore that Havi Robles vifto two, each of them
as gruefo WNV as the leg, by baxo, part of pafados Besides the
arrows of the Indians; efto i is not so much of wonders, vifta
force, i miss the morning with that because I mifmo Vì VNA Arrow
footing vn vn in Alamo, which fell by vn geme.

Qantas defde Florida Indians were here, all Flecheros fon, fon so
i like CREFC body, i go defnudos, defde lexos parefcen Giants.

It is beautifully difpuefta people, skinny mui, mui large force of
i, i ligereça.

Los Arcos that vfan fon gruefos as BRAC, eleven or twelve spans long,
two hundred arrows at Paphos, with such a great touch to any IERRE
COFA. Palados that went Efte pafo of AI a VNA league get to another
way of mifma, Falvo that fer so long that lasted half a league,
it was worse mui: Efte pafamos freely, so i eftorvo Indians, as Havi
GAFTA in the first full ammo, from arrows that had not got that ofarnos
undertake. Another day figuiente, pafando another femejante pafo, I
found raftro People who went forward, so i dì avifo the Governor,
coming in Retaguarda i host, although the Indians falieron à nofotros,
apercebidos as we were, we could offend i falidos as flat fueronnos
still appear; bolvimos to them by two parties, two Indians matamosles
i, i hirieronme to me, and two or three Chriftianos; by acogerfenos
Mount, podimos not do more harm or damage .

EFTA strong eight-day walk, i defde Efte pafo that I have not falieron
most Indians nofotros, hafta VNA league forward, which is a place
where I said we were going. Alli, nofotros by going nueftro way
falieron Indians, so fer fent i gave in Retaguarda, i scream at the
boy who gave vn vn Hidalgo of which there iban that faith
called Avellaneda, Avellaneda bolvió on, i went to focorrerlos, i
was right with the Indians for singing Arrow NPV of Corações, i
was so wound that happened throughout the CAFI pefcueço by Arrow,
then i died there, so i hafta take Aute. In nine days walking, Appalachian
defde, there hafta arrived. And when we arrived, we found all the
people from the IDA, the Cafas i burned, i much corn, Calabaças
i, i Frifoles, which ia eftaba for everything to catch empeçarfe.

Defcanfamos two days i pafados them, the Governor asked me to fuefe à
la Mar defcubrir because the Indians said, so close that there eftaba:
AI in the way Efte by Havi defcubierto vn mui grande Rio, in the
hall, Havi puefto by whom the name of the Rio Magdalena. Vifto
efto, one day I broke my figuiente à defcubrirla, together with
the Comifario, i Captain Caftillo i Andrès Dorantes, i FIET other
Horsehead, i fifty Laborers, i hafta walk when Vifperas who arrived
at Ancon vn or entrance of the Sea, where they found many Hoftiones
People Holga: thank you very much i gave to God, brought by havernos
there.

Another day tomorrow Embi twenty men to conofciefen the Cofta, i
mirafen the difpoficion of it: the quale bolvieron another day in
the evening, saying that those Ancone i mui Baìas were great, so i
went inside the earth, which eftorvaban hard to defcubrir what
they wanted, that i Cofta eftaba mui lexos from there. eftas known
new, i vifta bad difpoficion i rig, for which there defcubrir the
Cofta Havi, I bolvì to Govern: when i arrived, with many sick
hallamosle i night pafada Havi Indians in them since i pueftolos
in grandifimo work raçon by the disease they fobrevenido Havi, also
Havi vn dead horse.

I realized what Havi fact, i difpoficion of poor of the earth. That
day we stopped there. _CAP. VIII. As part of Aute._ Another Day
figuiente starting from Aute, i walked all day, I hafta go where
Havi eftado. It was the way in eftremo trabajofo because neither
BAFT Horses to carry the sick or to put fabio remedy, because
every day adolefcian, which was great laftima COFA of mui, i see the
pain necefidad, i work that eftabamos. Arrived we were, vifto
little choice, in order to go forward Havi because Havi no where,
even if it huviera, people could pafar forward, for the most eftàr
sick, i such that few who Havi pudiefe haver some good faith . Dexo
here for efto longer, because each VNO penfar what faith can pafaria
Land eftraña so, i so bad, so i order any remedy for any COFA, or
eftar, Faliro or her: but as the true cure ugly Nueftro Lord God,
i never Efte defconfiamos, COFA fufcediò another, further exacerbating
efto everything that among people of faith began the greatest horse
of them to go fecretamente, they find themselves penfando remedy,
i defamparar to Governor, I to the sick, so some force eftaban quale
i power.

But like many among them Havi Hijofdalgo i men of good strong, non
quifieron that efto pafafe, partly to give the Governor, I to V.
Officers I like them afeamos Mag propofito fu, i pufimos them before
the time that defamparaban Fu Capitan, which i eftaban sick, so i can,
i apartarfe fobre all of fervicio V. Mag be remembered, that what i
fuefe of WNV, fuefe all, so that none defamparafe to another. Vifto
efto by the Governor, known to all, i each VNO itself, asking parefcer
of such poor Earth, to Faliro it, i bufcar any remedy, because there
is not Havi, eftando the third part of the People with big illness,
i CREFC efto every hour, which was all true eftariamos afi, where
faith could not fine feguir death that fer by faith in that part
to us more serious, i viftos eftos, many drawbacks i, i tempted
many remedies, we agree on WNV (very hard) to put in work, which
was to Navio, we fuefemos.

All parefcia impofible because fabio nofotros not do, no Havi tools,
nor iron, nor forge or Eftopa nor fish, nor Xarcias finally COFA nor
any of as many as fon menefter or who fupiefe nothing to give in
induftria it: i haver fobre not eat everything, now that hiciefen
faith, which i Havi work of art that Havi told efto i confiderando
all, remember it penfar over efpacio, i stopped talking
that day, each i WNV was faith and bring them to God Nueftro Lord,
who encaminafe where the fuefe more fervido.

Another day quifo God who came VNO of the Company saying that the
guns would make vnos suit, and with faith vnos Cueros Venado Harian
vnos Bellows: i like eftabamos time that qualquer COFA tuviefe that
any remedial fobrehaz we parefcia Well, diximos that faith
by pufiefe work: i do remember the Eftrivos i Efpuelas, Balleftas
i, i of the other Iron cofas that Havi, cloves, i saw, i axes and other
tools i,
that Havi necefidad so much for this i gave remedy by which to
haver any maintenance in efto time hiciefe faith, faith hiciefen
Aute four entries, with all the horses, i People who pudiefen go,
i belief that third day vn matafe Horse, the qual repartiefe faith
among those who worked in the Work of the boats, which i eftaban
sick entries made faith with people, i was pofible Horses, i hafta
traxeron faith in them quatrocientas hanegas Corn, but not to
fighting, i pendencies with the Indians.

Palmitos Hecimos take many to take advantage of wool, i cover them,
twisted, i aderesçandola to vfar instead of Eftopa for Barcas, quale
of faith begin to do vn folo Carpenter, that the Company Havi, so
i pufimos diligence, I started four days Agofto, twenty days of
September were just five ships, twenty and two elbows each NPV,
calafeteadas with Eftopas of Palm, with some fish i breamoslas tar,
which vn HiCo Greek named Don Teodoro of vnos Pines: i mifma the
clothing of the Hearts of palm, from the queues i, i manes of horses,
hecimos string Xarcias i: i the nueftras Camif, Candles, i of the
Sabine that there Havi, hecimos the paddles, we parefciò was menefter
i such that the Earth was nueftros Havi puefto our sins, who could
find work mui large stones Laftre i Ancles of boats or in whole
Havi vifto none.

Defollamos also the entire legs of horses, i tanned hides
from them, to Boots, which llevafemos Water.

In Efte some time went by Marifco taking corners, i entries of the
Sea, where the Indians, two times they gave us ten men killed, à
vifta of Real, so that pudiefemos focorrer the quale found, part to
part, pafados arrows, although it had some good weapons, not to BAFT
refiftir for efto no faith hiciefe by arrows deftreça so i force
it (as I said above) i said, i swear nueftros Pilots, defde the Bay,
which pufimos Name Cross, hafta here, i walked two hundred eighty
Leguas little more or less in all EFTA Earth were not Sierra, we had
no news of it in any way: i before we embarcafemos , so that we
killed the Indians, faith over Forty men died of disease, hunger i.

I Twenty two days in September ended in faith eat the horses, which
remained WNV folo i Efte EFTA day we embarked on order. That the
Governor in Barca i iban Forty nine men. In another, he gave the
counter, i Comifario, iban others.

The third gave the Captain Alonfo of Caftillo i Andrès Dorantes, with
i Forty eight men, and another gave two Captains, who called faith
Tellez, Peñalofa i, i FIET with Forty Men. The other Veedor gave i
to me with Forty nine men i i defpues of the board Baftimentos i
clothing, is not subject to the boat for vn geme board out of the
water: i efto from beyond, we were so tight that we could not move,
so i can necefidad, we HiCo adventure EFTA way to go, i get into
VNA Mar trabajofa so, so i have news of the art that any of the
dial there iban.

_CAP. IX. As part of Bay of Baia Caballos._ That where we started,
has named the Bay of Horses, i walked in those days FIET Ancona, entered
the water hafta tape feñal order to see any of COFA Cofta i after
were to reach an island that eftaba near Earth. My boat was going
ahead, i saw it coming five canoes of Indians, the defampararon
quale i dexaron us in our hands, we're going to see them: the other
Barcas pafaron onwards, i gave in vnas Cafas the mifma Island where
we find many Liças i eggs from them, which eftaban feces, which was
mui great remedy for that necefidad carried.

Defpues of taken pafamos forward, and two of there pafamos Leguas
Eftrecho vn, that the island towards the Earth, called the qual de
Sant Miguel, in fu falido haver by day by the i falidos, we reach
the Cofta, where five Canoas, Havi I took that to the Indians,
remedies some of the boats, making them Falces, i added, so that
fubieron two spans of the water board fobre i walk around with
efto by Luengo Cofta of the Via del Rio de Palmas, CREFC fed every
day, i hunger because Baftimentos were few mui, mui iban i done, i
have just Water faith, because the boots that hecimos the legs of
horses, then were rotten, so i no benefit: sometimes go by Ancona,
i Baìas, which fell far inside the earth, all are baxas, i peligrofas:
host i walked by them thirty days, which sometimes hallabamos Indian
Pefcadores, poor i MIFER.

IA eftos After thirty days, that was necefidad Water eftremo, going
around Cofta, VNA VNA come Canoeing fent night, as i saw, efperamos
that llegafe, i did not do quifo face: but i call it, quifo
bolver no, no wait, i per fer night, not feguimos i fuimonos via
nueftra; amanefciò when we saw VNA small island, i went to her,
to see fi find water, more work was nueftro valde, because no the
Havi.

Alli Eftando Furtado, took us VNA Storm mui great, because we stopped
Feis days, so that ofafemos Faliro to sea: i like Havi five days, not
drinking, the Fed was so that we pufo in necefidad Drinking Water
falada; i defatentaron some faith in this, that our faith fupitameete
killed five men. Afi efto tale briefly, because I do not think i
necefidad particularly in counting miferias, i work in that we were,
therefore confiderando where eftabamos i efperança little
relief, we had each WNV can penfar much that there pafaria i
saw that as the Fed crefcia i Water killed us, but the Storm was
not cefada, agree to entrust Nueftro Lord God, before i venture to
the danger of the Sea, which the Certina efperar of death, the We
were fed, via the i afi falimos where Havi vifto Canoe, the night
that we were there, i Efte day we were flooded many times, i lost
so that none huvo, not by some tuviefe death.

Plug à Nueftro Lord, that the biggest favor necefidades fuel moftrar
fu, which puefta VNA bolvimos Punta del Sol, which makes the Earth,
where we found plenty fair, i coat. Many came to nofotros Canoas, i
the Indians, they came, we talked, so i wait for love, faith
bolvieron. People was great, i difpuefta well, i did not bring Flechas
or Arcos. I figure we hafta Nofotros fus Cafas that there eftaban about
the Language of Water, Land i missed i Cafas are ahead of many
Cantaros Water, lots of PEFC i guifado i Lord of that land
ofrefciò all that the Governor, taking i config, took him to Cafa
fu. The Cafas of eftos were Efter that what parefciò were eftantes
i defpues we enter the Cafa Cacique, PEFC gave us a lot, i gave
him nofotros Corn, which had, what i ate in nueftra Preferences,
i asked but i gave it faith, I gave many Refcates Governor, the qual,
eftando with Cacique in Cafa fu, a half-hour of the night, the Indians
gave fupitamente in nofotros, where i eftaban mui ill, lying
on the Cofta, i also undertook the Cafa Chief's where Governor
eftaba, so i wounded in stone roftro VNA. The faith that they found
there, the chief seized: but as Suios eftaban so close, foltòfeles i
dexòles in the hands of Martha Cebelinas VNA Manta, fon to the best,
I believe that that faith in the world could find, i have a vn smell,
no fine parefce amber, musk i, i lexos scope so that a lot of
faith fiente: there were others, but none were like eftas. The faith
that
they found there, seeing the wounded Governador, it got into the
boat, i hecimos that with faith all recogiefe more people Barcas
fus, i hafta stay in fifty Earth, for against the Indians, we
undertook three times that night, so i momentum, which made us ever
more to retract vn stone's throw: none huvo of nofotros, quedafe
not hurt, i I was on the face; fi as i found little faith Flechas,
eftuvieran provided with more them, so we dubda doing much damage.

The time vltima faith in pufieron helmet Captains Dorantes, Peñalofa
i, i Tellez, with fifteen men, i gave them the efpaldas, so i made
them flee, we dexaron.

Another day tomorrow I broke more than thirty canoes, which took us
to North vn to that for the whole day there huvimos of eftàr very
cold, so ofar into the Sea, by the great storm that it Havi.

Efto pafado We ship around, sailed three days i: i Havi taken as little
water, the Vafos that i had to carry afimifmo mui were few, about
to fall into the first necefidad i appear via nueftra entering by
Efter vn, i eftando in, we come VNA of Indian canoe: the call
came to nofotros i the Governor, to Havi cuia Barca come pidiòles
Water, i ofrefcieron them with their diefen that traxefen i vn
Chriftiano Greek, called Doroteo Teodoro (whose faith HiCo mention
above) dixo, I wanted to go with them: the Governor, i tried other
faith eftorvar much, i could never, in any fine CAFOs want to go
with them: Faith was afi i brought Black config vn, i dexaron Indian
hostages in two fu Company i at night bolvieron Indians, i traxeronnos
nueftros Water Vafos so, i do not traxeron the Chriftianos which
led Havi: i which Havi dexado hostage by like the others spoke,
cast quifieronfe Water.

But those in the Barca eftaban arrested, i host huiendo faith were
of Indian canoe, we dexaron mui confufos i, i Trift for haver
lost those two Chriftianos. _CAP. X. In the scuffle, which gave us
the Indios._ Come the morning, came to nofotros many Indian canoes,
asking the two companions, who remained in the boat by Havi hostages.
Governor dixo that faith daria, traxefen that the two Chriftianos
which led Havi. EFTA People came with five or Feis Gentlemen, we
parefciò i fer people would difpuefta, authority over i, i concert,
that there hafta Havi vifto, although not as great as the others,
who havemos counted.

Traian fueltos hair, i mui long, covered with blankets i Mars, the
strength of which Havi taken back, i made some mui eftraña way, because
they Havi vnos laços of work vnas Skins Leone, mui parefcian well.
Rogabannos, we fuefemos with them, that we would be given the i
Chriftianos i Waters, many cofas i: i Contino nofotros many Canoes
came fobre, trying to take his mouth from that post: i efto by
afi, and because the Earth was eftàr mui peligrofa for it, we falimos
to sea, where eftuvimos hafta noon with them.

And as we quifiefen give Chriftianos i Efte by refpeto nofotros not
diefemos the Indians, throwing stones començaronnos Hondas, i Varas,
mueftras with arrows, although not all of them were fine three or four
bows. Eftando in EFTA contention wind refrefcò, i faith bolvieron
them, we dexaron i: i afi sail that day, when hafta Vifperas, my
boat, which went before, VNA defcubriò point that the Earth toward
the other end i via faith vn mui Rio Grande: i VNA Isleta toward
the tip, I did Van, on the other efperar Barcas.

Governor quifo not arrive before he put faith by VNA mui Bay near
there, where many Isletas Havi, i got together there, i take defde Mar
Freshwater, because the river was in flood the Sea: i algun by Toft
Corn is bringing because ia Havi two days we ate it raw, lacking
in that island, are not more like wood, remember to go to Rio,
which eftaba behind the tip of VNA Legua alli: i going was much the
current, we do not in any way dexaba arrive before we
departed from the earth, i nofotros working, i take it by
stubborn. North, who came from Earth, began to CREFC So we got
into the Sea, so that nofotros pudiefemos make another COFA: i à
Legua half we were caught in it, fund, i find that with
thirty braca not podimos take a deep breath, i could not understand,
fi caufa that the flow was not taken pudiefemos i afi sail two
days, still working to make Earth: i after them, vn shortly before
the Sun faliefe, we saw many Humeros by Cofta i work to get there,
we are in three braca Water, i fer by night, not taking ofamos Earth
because as many Havi vifto humerus, we believed that faith could
recrefcer any danger, so you can see nofotros by obfcuridad lot,
Havi what to do: i efto determined by efperar in the morning, as i
amanefciò every Barca found themselves lost faith in the others: I
found thirty braca i figure my trip, when to Vifperas Vì two boats,
as i went to them, I saw that the first to come was the Governor
of the qual me wonder what I should do that parefcia?

I dixe that Barca must regain that which went before, that i dexafe
in any way, i that all three boards Barcas, figuiefemos nueftro road,
where God quifiefe carry. The refpondiò me, that this faith could
not do, because the boat was caught in the Sea mui, i wanted him to
take the Earth, which i fi Yo la queria feguir that hiciefe that my
Barca tomafen paddles, i trabajafen, because it will force faith
Havi Brac to take the Earth: it aconfejaba vn i efto Capitan, config
that had that faith called Pantoja, telling that that day did not
fi Earth, in other Feis not take, i Efte necefario time was dying
of hunger.

But angels are higher
ministers in the hierarchical order than any men whatsoever, as
Dionysius says (Coel. Hier. ix). Therefore, since men can be
ministers of sacraments, it seems that much more can angels be.

Obj. 2: Further, in heaven holy men are likened to the angels (Matt.
22:30). But some holy men, when in heaven, can be ministers of the
sacraments; since the sacramental character is indelible, as stated
above (Q. 63, A. 5). Therefore it seems that angels too can be
ministers of sacraments.

Obj. 3: Further, as stated above (Q. 8, A. 7), the devil is head of
the wicked, and the wicked are his members. But sacraments can be
administered by the wicked. Therefore it seems that they can be
administered even by demons.

_On the contrary,_ It is written (Heb. 5:1): "Every high priest taken
from among men, is ordained for men in the things that appertain to
God." But angels whether good or bad are not taken from among men.
Therefore they are not ordained ministers in the things that
appertain to God, i.e. in the sacraments.

_I answer that,_ As stated above (A. 3; Q. 62, A. 5), the whole power
of the sacraments flows from Christ's Passion, which belongs to Him
as man. And Him in their very nature men, not angels, resemble;
indeed, in respect of His Passion, He is described as being "a little
lower than the angels" (Heb. 2:9). Consequently, it belongs to men,
but not to angels, to dispense the sacraments and to take part in
their administration.

But it must be observed that as God did not bind His power to the
sacraments, so as to be unable to bestow the sacramental effect
without conferring the sacrament; so neither did He bind His power to
the ministers of the Church so as to be unable to give angels power
to administer the sacraments. And since good angels are messengers of
truth; if any sacramental rite were performed by good angels, it
should be considered valid, because it ought to be evident that this
is being done by the will of God: for instance, certain churches are
said to have been consecrated by the ministry of the angels [*See
Acta S.S., September 29]. But if demons, who are "lying spirits,"
were to perform a sacramental rite, it should be pronounced as
invalid.

Reply Obj. 1: What men do in a less perfect manner, i.e. by sensible
sacraments, which are proportionate to their nature, angels also do,
as ministers of a higher degree, in a more perfect manner, i.e.
invisibly--by cleansing, enlightening, and perfecting.

Reply Obj. 2: The saints in heaven resemble the angels as to their
share of glory, but not as to the conditions of their nature: and
consequently not in regard to the sacraments.

Reply Obj. 3: Wicked men do not owe their power of conferring
sacraments to their being members of the devil. Consequently, it does
not follow that _a fortiori_ the devil, their head, can do so.
_______________________

EIGHTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 64, Art. 8]

Whether the Minister's Intention Is Required for the Validity of a
Sacrament?

Needless to say that Austria is now recognized his situation and had
Gegenmaßregeln met. By the end of March began the diplomatic game
to be lively. It started with accusations from both sides to maltreat
and - equipped. On 9 April, the Federal Reform of Prussia in
Frankfurt aM request it requested that the Federal Assembly would
decide to set up a direct general elections and voting rights
throughout the nation resulting assembly for a closer Councils days
to be determined, in the meantime, however, until the same meeting,
the governments should Templates for a reform of the federal
constitution among themselves determine.

This reform proposal was erklärlicherweise widely met with intense
distrust. They told themselves: How to Bismarck to sign up for a
German parliament on the basis of universal, direct suffrage and to
declare itself as a radical reformer aufzuspielen, he, in
Prussia in opposition to the clear provisions of the Constitution
governs the infamous Preßordonnanzen, the leadership of the
Schleswig-Holstein's war against the will of the chamber, the just
decision of the Upper Tribunal on Article 84 of the Constitution
concerning the freedom of speech of Members, and many others have
on his conscience?

The resistance of the Prussian reform proposal was, in April led the
"cross-Zeitung, to declare that it will remain only one alternative:
Federal reform or revolution. In truth, it was Bismarck with his
proposal of a pan-German parliament is not serious, as his
subsequent proposal to Parliament showed the Bundestag.

But he was not even from the southwest German states is incorporated,
as later emerged, as it is the foundation of the North German Confederation
negotiated.

To this abundance is through the memorabilia of Prince Hohenlohe has
been confirmed. Bismarck saw back then in the large majority of the
Süddeutsche heterogeneous elements that it might interfere with
his compass. First elections to the Customs House and the inclusion
of the war of 1870-71 took place in southern Germany, removed his
fears. The approach of Bismarck in Schleswig-Holstein chen and the
German question seemed to decompose the Liberals, they were separated
into two camps. Some sympathized with his approach, while others
could give it its inner conflict in Prussia not forgive and opposed.
Twesten beginning in October 1865 wrote to the chairman of the
six-Committee: "We - he said so in the name of several - _jede_
prefer alternative a defeat of the Prussian State."

That meant also: Prussian triumphs in battle for supremacy in Germany,
even with the help of foreign and disclosure of German territory,
we are to Prussia. That was the Bismarck: "I am more than Preuße
German!" Mommsen said: The differences in freedom issues were not a
reason that Bismarck is not in its foreign policy support. And Ziegler,
the tax objectors from 1848, the accused of high treason, sentenced
to fortress and as mayor of Brandenburg gemaßregelt had said
shortly before the outbreak of the war before his Breslauer voters:
The heart of the Prussian democracy, where the national flags are
blowing.

Ziegler was a strange master. So he had some months earlier in a
speech in the Prussian House of Representatives his party
comrades a dramatic quote from a speech Marrasts in the February
1848 member of the provisional government in Paris was at the head
thrown by giving them zurief: The perversity of the abdomen is to you
into the brain increased, you can no longer think. The National
Association examined by a General Meeting, which he scheduled for
the end of October 1865 in Frankfurt aM summoned, in its way also
the Bismarck's policy assistance.

He certainly earned no gratitude. Bismarck was on such a plan so upset
that he led the Austrian Government to work with him a note at the
Frankfurt Senate to send in both the General Assembly called for
the ban, a step that only a man could undertake, which is no longer
the master of his nerves were.

The Senate also rejected this request, and the General Assembly took
place. The resolutions said: The National Association confirms its
previous decisions that a central government and a parliament with the
Reich Constitution of 1849 as the target erstrebe and the central
government transferred to Prussia wanted to see. In Schleswig-Holstein
call it the self-determination with the restriction that, as long
as no German central power was available, it is for a central
authority necessary attributes transferred to Prussia.

It also should be a representation of the country dukedoms be convened.
After heated debate, these applications with a large majority.
In any case, these decisions was a major concession against Prussia.
Next was the moment of the National Association does not go.
When the possibility of a war between Austria and Prussia, more and
more into the fore, was the desire of the liberals then, the neutrality
of the medium and small states enforce because they are told that
this case probably in the war in their great majority, on the Austrian
side would. In Saxony the Liberals even turned the tables
and made the Saxon government for the eventual outbreak of war
responsibility, and demanded disarmament and after
Prussia.

The Leipzig city authorities closed by order of 5 May this view.

On the other hand, protested one of 5000 people visited People's
Assembly, the Professor Wuttke and his next political friends,
supported by the Lassalleanern Fritzsche, etc., for 8 May had
convened a convocation, which we followed.

The Steinert Lassalleaner presided. Wuttke gave the first speech.
He protested against the actions of City Council and City Council
and demanded in a resolution on the government to extend the
Verteidigungsmaßregeln general popular armament to protect the
country introduced, the government should also be ringing the
help of its allies and insure persistently Prussia any special
position in Schleswig-Holstein as in the rest of Germany meet.

This resolution was weakly us. So I took the word and the following
grounds of Liebknecht and I agreed resolution: 1 The current situation
in Germany is threatened by the attitude and the actions of the Prussian
government in Schleswig-Holstein question chen provoked, but also the
natural consequence of the policy of the National Association and
the Gothaer for the Prussian top 2. A direct or indirect support
of this policy, we undeutschen as an injury to the interests
of the German people. 3 This interest can be safeguarded only
through a universal, equal and direct elections by secret ballot
resulting Parliament, supported by General People's Defense. 4. We
expect that the German people only such men to his chosen representatives,
the central government any hereditary discarded. 5.

We expect that in the case of a German brother of war, which
only can serve to German foreign territory into the hands to play,
the German people as a man rises to the weapons in the hands of his
property and his honor to represent. The City Council president Dr
Joseph City Council and city councilor tried to justify, he replied
sharply Liebknecht and Fritzsche. The resolution was Wuttkesche
against a minority, which my adopted unanimously. Leipziger liberal
press brought the verlogensten reports on the meeting, what the workers
of Offizin by Giesecke & Devrient so enraged that they are concerned
the number of "Mitteldeutsche Volkszeitung" ceremonially burned.

The Leipzig example, was often succeeds. Thus spoke, inter alia,
of the Labor Maingauverbandes, on 13 May Büchner Chair Professor
Louis met in the same sense.

In this situation, people believed in the six-day committee of MPs
Prussia to help them. That referred to the first Pentecost holiday
after a Abgeordnetentag The Frankfurt Frankfurt aM Democracy decided
on the same day, a counter-demonstration to organize, to which from
Saxony Wuttke and I were invited. The Abgeordnetentag, from about
250 MPs attended, was the chairperson of the six committee chair.
Mr. v. Bennigsen was President. Among those present was also
Bluntschli, by his actions in the forties in Switzerland against
Weitling had no good name.

It also was present, the old Privy Welcker, who, although he head for
the Prussian enthused about the Bismarck's policy was so fierce that
he, as then, the newspapers reported the strange price had questioned
how a government without the perishable resources of the revolution
could be removed? The famous question: How to Wash the skin without
making it wet? Among the audience of the negotiations were among
the other eight Amand Goegg, August village shop and Gustav Struve.
The latter was a gaunt, high aufgeschossene shape with a
falsetto and a strange red nose, although an opponent of the
alcohol was. I had the former leader of the Baden Revolution presented
somewhat differently, but soon made the discovery that as I am with
Struve there other people with me was that even very different ideas
from my person had. Dr. Völcker Augsburg, later nicknamed the spring
lark received, because it is in Customs House jubilant announced that
it will be spring in Germany, was Speaker.

He founded the following resolution of the majority of the six-Committee:
* * * * * The victory gave us the weapons of our North trademarks
returned. Such a victory would, in any well-to increase the range
of national feeling has gone. In Germany, he led by the contempt of
the law of the country regained by the desire of the Prussian
government after violent annexation and as a result of disastrous
jealousy of the two superpowers to a dichotomy, whose dimensions far
beyond the original subject of this dispute boundary. We condemn
the looming war as a dynastic purposes only serving Cabinet War.
He is unworthy of a civilized nation, threatens all the goods
that we in fifty years of peace have won, and feeds the cravings
elsewhere. Princes and ministers, which this unnatural war, debt,
or special interests from the dangers of extending the same, make
a serious crime guilty to the nation. With her curse and the
punishment of treason, the nation will meet those who enter into
negotiations with foreign powers to give German territory.

Should it not succeed, the war itself by the unanimously expressed
will of the people still in the last hour prevented, then at least
try to, that he was not the whole of Germany into two large parts
warehouse, but the narrowest space will be limited. We see here the
most effective means to restore peace to speed, the interference of
foreign countries to hold, by the military power of the non-participating
States to cover the borders and, in the event of war, a European
character should, with fresh forces against the external enemy.

These states have the duty, as long as their position is respected,
not without hardship in the war of two great powers to topple. In
particular, it is the states of the southwest German group whether
their force ungeschwächt to obtain, where necessary for the integrity
of German territory einzustehen. It is a matter for the country's
representatives, if they have requirements for military purposes
may have to decide those guarantees from their governments to
demand that the use in the above direction, and pronounced in the
true interest of the homeland secure.

Only in this way will be to avert the danger from the entanglements
present a new era German general reaction to arise.

As a German Parliament alone has the authority, which by the German
interests in Schleswig-Holstein to decide the interview, so is the
execution the German constitutional issue by a freely German people
alone can represent the recurrence of such unfortunate conditions
effective manner.

The Schleuniger after the convening of a kingdom of 14 electoral
April 1849 Parliament must be elected by all country representatives
and by the whole nation will be required. * * * * * The focus of this
resolution was in sections 5, 6 a.m. to 7 p.m., after which the
medium and small states to remain neutral in the struggle between
Austria and Prussia wanted to undertake.

At a very effective speech was the Prussian deputies Julius Freese of
resolution of the committee and the speakers, which they had
defended, to physical, often stormy applause from the minority and
the audience in the Chamber adjourned. Over the medium and
small countries to accept the role he said: "And what would result
if the two countries now had packed?

As two deer to the deer struggling, and the hind unarmed and
peaceful where they should Austria and Prussia fight each other, and
the third in Germany, the mild, gentle hind, which then waits at the
end of what the winner of the fight they transfer .... And he concluded:
_Nur then Prussia released when it enters service in Germany, if you
But Germany Prussia rise in capital, then where is God gracious
to see the regiment, which was then on Prussia and Germany were
made wird._ "These words sparked sustained applause from.

But alongside the tragedy came the comedy to their rights. In the
middle of the speech Völckers several cannon strikes thundered through
the hall, so that everything was horrified jumped up and looked
to the ceiling, whose collapse is feared.

Völcker himself seemed to believe that it was an attack on him.
With a powerful sentences he sprang backward from the gallery on the
wall, accompanied by a loud Gejohle and clapping at the top gallery.
The Frankfurt and Offenbach Lassalleaner had led the Upper Winders
cannon shots in order to help them in their business card at
Abgeordnetentag must.

The horrors followed general merriment. Obviously, the resolutions
of the Committee by a large majority against a request Müller-Passavant.
On the afternoon of that day there was in the circus from the
democratic side, convened by about 3000 people visited People's
Assembly. Among other speakers, I also took the floor. In our proposed
resolution was called for: 1 Against the policy of Prussia
friedensbrecherische the armed resistance, neutrality is cowardice
or treason. 2.

Schleswig-Holstein, at the basis of existing law to obtain its independence.
3 The Prussian House proposal would necessarily be discarded, but
should be a constituent, with the necessary power equipped popular
representation on the constitution of Germany decide. 4th introduction
of fundamental rights and imposition of the statutory general arming
people. 5. The people should be everywhere in town and country in
political clubs to meet.

After the adoption of these proposals, a committee established that the
program design and a delegate to Frankfurt to be convened in
order to finally discuss the program.

In the committee were at the proposal of Haußmann-Stuttgart, the father
of the Reichstag deputies Konrad Haußmann elected: Bebel, villages
acorn-Mannheim, Goegg-Offenburg, K. Green-Heidelberg, Kolb-Speier,
K. Mayer-Stuttgart, Dr. Morgenstern - Fürth, v. Neergardt-Kiel,
Aug. Röckel and Gustav Struve-Frankfurt, Hanau-Trabert, of Doos Kraemer,
Bavaria. Of these twelve, I am the only one still living, but I was
the Benjamin of the corona. The committee drafted the following
program: A. 1.

Democratic basis of the constitution and administration of the
German states. 2.

Federal connect to the same reason
of self-determination. 3.

Production over the governments of the individual federal states are
violence and popular representation.

None Prussian, Austrian no tip. B. 1.

We demand the preservation of peace in Germany.

The threat of war is out of the Schleswig-Holstein chen thing arisen,
can be eliminated only by the immediate constitution of the duchies
as an independent state on the right and the people's wishes.

The voice of Holsteins in the league must be readily enter
into force, its defensive strength will posses.

No disposition of the duchies resist the will of the people, no
division of Schleswig. 2.

Against the Prussian war policy is the resistance offered by Germany.

Neutrality is cowardice or treason. 3. No German foot width of the
earth may be transferred abroad. The risk of loss of German territory
and the humiliation of foreign interference in German affairs
will only be averted from us, the resistance will only be successful,
_The danger of a victory on the side of Austria sein_ eliminated
only if the allies in the struggle not dynastic, but a national
policy and its government on the full defense force, and to the
parliamentary cooperation of the people support.

The statutory introduction of the militia system is before all things
to ask. 4. The Prussian parliament to reject a proposal is only one
of the people resulting in full liberty elected National Assembly
with a crucial voice and equipped with the necessary power can be
on the Constitution of the Fatherland final decision.

The convening of an Assembly of Delegates of the program
for discussion should be had to be omitted because the meantime the
war broke out.
Secondly in regard to natural propagation. This is
accomplished by Matrimony both in the corporal and in the spiritual
life: since it is not only a sacrament but also a function of nature.

We may likewise gather the number of the sacraments from their being
instituted as a remedy against the defect caused by sin. For Baptism
is intended as a remedy against the absence of spiritual life;
Confirmation, against the infirmity of soul found in those of recent
birth; the Eucharist, against the soul's proneness to sin; Penance,
against actual sin committed after baptism; Extreme Unction, against
the remainders of sins--of those sins, namely, which are not
sufficiently removed by Penance, whether through negligence or
through ignorance; order, against divisions in the community;
Matrimony, as a remedy against concupiscence in the individual, and
against the decrease in numbers that results from death.

Some, again, gather the number of sacraments from a certain
adaptation to the virtues and to the defects and penal effects
resulting from sin. They say that Baptism corresponds to Faith, and
is ordained as a remedy against original sin; Extreme Unction, to
Hope, being ordained against venial sin; the Eucharist, to Charity,
being ordained against the penal effect which is malice; Order, to
Prudence, being ordained against ignorance; Penance to Justice, being
ordained against mortal sin; Matrimony, to Temperance, being ordained
against concupiscence; Confirmation, to Fortitude, being ordained
against infirmity.

Reply Obj. 1: The same principal agent uses various instruments unto
various effects, in accordance with the thing to be done. In the same
way the Divine power and the Passion of Christ work in us through the
various sacraments as through various instruments.

Reply Obj. 2: Guilt and punishment are diversified both according to
species, inasmuch as there are various species of guilt and
punishment, and according to men's various states and habitudes. And
in this respect it was necessary to have a number of sacraments, as
explained above.

Reply Obj. 3: In hierarchical actions we must consider the agents,
the recipients and the actions. The agents are the ministers of the
Church; and to these the sacrament of order belongs. The recipients
are those who approach the sacraments: and these are brought into
being by Matrimony. The train passes in front of large towns such as
Beaune, Chalons, Mâcon and Villefranche, all agricultural production
centers. The wines of Beaune and Mâcon are estimated, the
first by merit and the second by a large amount of output changes, it
adapts to a wide use among all social classes. The night with its
shadows covered the vast plain , and I could not even have a general
idea of the appearance of the country between Dijon and Lyon. Just
passing by to say Mâcon, preoccupied with a pleasant memory, I felt
possessed of a certain veneration of this interesting region.

Mâcon is the birthplace of the glorious Lamartine, - the Patriarch of
poetry in the nineteenth century, and could not aspire to enjoy
the breeze of the country immortalized by youth, lira sublime, to
the glory and misfortunes of the French Tasso. Was born there and
began to dream, sing and grow the divine poet, and he kept a
home with a loving reverence, making _Milly_ the sanctuary of the
most pure harmonies and the most noble meditations. The train
rolled in the shadows with the wind speed, throwing the locomotive
from time to time its not aroused sharp whistles echoed in the
plain, and I, while other passengers were sleeping at my side,
smoked with relish, leaving my mind wander into a whirlwind of
memories of love and brooding on the future of man, while, plunging
into the eye shadow that covered the endless countryside, looking
for some light within it some other fugitives or vigorous and more
pronounced shadow produced by a prominent building near here and
there the road. rozándose almost Suddenly a train passing in the
opposite direction, as a dragon enraged, threw his breath of fire
and steam to disappear at the same instant.

Just such a fantastic railway crossings, especially under the dark
canopy of a _túnel_, where the whistle of the locomotive looks
like a cry of supreme agony or death. It is very trivial view that
the railways have removed the poetry of travel making it extremely
prosaic.

Indeed, if a station near a city or a beautiful landscape rich, poetic
spiritualism is compared to a nearby monument, with piles of stone and
coal wagons prosaic, the disadvantage is that powerful instrument
of locomotion , who has made a career of travel, a jumble of impressions
and hurricanes are just beginning to be born when it is cleared up
as a nightmare. Rail, leveling the ground and greatly shortening the
distance and time, has removed the _peregrinación_ and the
traveler is a kind of Asmodée who fails to see what you have next
to the fast vagon.

And yet, I think that the railways by removing much of the _poesía of
materia_ have created a new poetry, much more vigorous and
fruitful, poetry that might be called the mixed _poesía of espíritu_.
Meeting at the locomotive is whistling and puff like the wind,
and devours space like lightning, a unique spirituality, if you
like prosaic in their apparent results, but great in its infinitely
sensitive _forma_ and its far reaching implications or consequences.

The nineteenth century, which apparently is the industry or the
speculation, I think actually the most poetic, by his fantastic
creations and productive at the same time as the railroad, the
telegraph, and many other wonders. What is the concern The dominant
trend in the thinking of the poet - a triple ideal, taking objects
cardinal God or the infinite, man and the sentiment, and as sovereign
of the Spirit World, sums it all up in
the notion of what _bello_ This _bueno_, and _justo_.

And what results can lead the wonders of science and industry?

In my opinion the railway as a means of active communication of
universal cheapness and fertility, is a light, religion, peace,
welfare, equal in life, of brotherhood among men and peoples, and
predominance of thought or the idea of physical strength.

That iron machine, animated by the spirit of man devouring distances,
reducing the days to minutes and minutes to days, I think an intelligence
in action. The wheels, valves, brakes, springs, boiler and
machinery of all the locomotive is the image of bodybuilding and
the bodies of man and the fire which produces steam and wonderful
movement, a bonfire is lit with a spark of divine fire's progress,
which burns constantly in the brain and the heart of the human
creature.

Rail has spiritualized and Christianize the world, as the steam-ship,
the telegraph and the newspaper, because he founded the place of
being, fraternity or pooling of interests, and the omnipotence
of the spirit over matter.

If Lyon, the second capital of France is extremely interesting
from the point of view, industrial, agricultural and commercial, no
less so by its topography and its artistic, moral and archaeological.

There is the traveler comfortable life in Paris and while some
spontaneity provincial beauties typical mid-day, and you are looking
for objects of observation and study is a vast field recording
impressions pleasant and instructive ideas.

Perhaps there is a city in France better than Lyon indicating the
passage of successive races and dominations which are featured in this
nation, and the strong contrast of rubble and monuments of the old
civilization to the wonders of this era.

The situation is admirably Lyon happy to internal and external trade,
and the varied topography makes it useful also for the picturesque.

Two small mountains or hills and two rivers serve as a great base,
determining its structure and appearance. The hills are the
_Fourières_ and _Croix-Rousse_; _Ródano_ the rivers and _Saona_. To
the north stands the hill _Groix-round Rousse_, which is the shot of
a chain of hills Rockies, the West dominates the horizon another
cordon of hills which is the center of Fourvières (seat of the Roman
city was earlier Nero) and to the east and south lies a vast and
beautiful plain wonderful panorama. Rhône descends northeast,
on the eastern side and the foot cord ending in rocky Croix-Rousse.
The Saona, born on the plains of Epinal, and comes from the north,
the waters swelled _Doubs_ from the Jura mountains, and it unites
in Verdun, - falls between the hills and Vaise Fourvières; cut
into two portions the city of Lyon in the west and will meet at
the southern end Rhône. Although the former Lyon consisted not only
of buildings set in a disorderly and amphitheater on the slopes of
Croix-Rousse and Fourvières on the banks of the Saône, Lyon is the
new element consists of several acquired by successive clusters.

The city has expanded in all directions to play with the neighboring
districts of the hills, cover all the narrow strip of land from
Croix-Rousse is extended south to the confluence of rivers loe, and
confuse the end with the districts and most important of the new
_Guillotière_ and _Broleaux_, lying on the eastern plains á Rhone.

A gradual expansion under that, Lyon have a whole population of 390,000
permanent residents, divided into three parts mixed and
varied by the Rhone and the Saone. Before seeking the details of
interest in Lyon I realize the whole, rising to the hills to catch
the glance, and can assure you that in its genre, I have not ever
found in Europe and Colombia as a magnificent and superb picture
as there has in the eyes of the traveler.

Climb to the top of Fourvières by the horrible and filthy alleys
of the old Lyon and arrived at the picturesque garden amphitheater
Fourvières a endless series of stairs rising from a few hundred and
make the company a true ascension.

Coils Crossing the street garden and a wooden bridge thrown over
high rocks, one reaches the astronomical observatory and the church
of Our Lady of Fourvières, whose high bell tower is the most
beautiful vantage can be achieved. Being in that tower, near which
the railroad passes by a famous tunnel, I was stunned admiration.

The picture is great and a lovely variety. To the east was the vast
plain, cut by some low hills which seat a crowd of people, including
_Grenoble_ (south-east), and, surrounded by high-Rhone, is the
basis of extensive cultivation, mainly of mulberry trees, vines and
wheat. To the north had the Saône valley and the rich plains of
Burgundy, Mâcon direction. The western plains and hills to the city
also manufacturer _Saint-Étienne, _ of great progress, and to
the south covered with a majestic Rhone Valley, from imperceptible
fall, spread _Vienne, Válence_ and _Avignon_ towards the Mediterranean.
Everywhere prime farmlands, cities and villages, houses, countryside,
width roads roads, numerous boats in the river, the old feudal
castles on the tops of steep hills, and all covered by a great sky,
very surprising in March even .

But nothing I produced such a profound sensation as the contrast
of the distant spectacle with which had to toe. Closed the
Alps to the east the horizon
with its crown of huge white cloud rising from the plain in
successive steps and in perspective, to end up as titans of snow
with their heads plunged into the bright ether, distinguishing
between them, far away, the mole _Monte the grand-Blanco_, this
king of the Alps whose courtiers and all the kings of Europe
travelers.

That chain of mountains, some blue, others by their bright snow,
had a majesty arrobas me, with my heart of Colombian fully understood
and contemplated with love.

But I saw at the foot of the vast city, whose head is a huge rock
which arteries are the two beautiful rivers, crossed by fifteen or
sixteen bridges, which are like the veins binding.

Here, almost under my floors, the Roman town and gothic, sad, dirty,
dark, maze in inexplicable, but full of mystery, monuments and
traditions typical. In front, on the left of the Rhone, toward
the plain, the _Guillotière and Broteaux_, neighborhoods widths,
cut at right angles by streets of a mathematical regularity, with
large springs and vast barracks, extending towards the countryside
in an arc of forts and houses field.

And finally, in the middle of the two rivers, the aristocratic and
opulent Lyon, irregular, ugly and repulsive at the foot of _Croix-Roues,
_ but then chic, sumptuous, rejuvenated and full of animation down
to the limit in the confluence of the rivers, south of the magnificent
railway station, which might be called the Palace of the locomotives.

Looking up at this, I thought to see Colombia, with its ridges and
its prodigious wild grandeur, however, that Alps seemed just a humble
imitation of the gigantic Andes. But looking down, they found
Europe, with its Roman and Gothic traditions, its wonders of art,
animation its industrial and commercial progress of their great
mobility, and its contrasts of wealth and appalling poverty.

Contemplation of that picture made me ponder unknown for long hours,
and I will never forget the impressions out there. * * * * * CHAPTER
II. * * * * * The city of Lyon. Hydrography .-- Several objects --
The Palace of the Arts - a curious contrast .-- .-- Several monuments
silk factories.

Lyon maintained their communications that give extraordinary
animation by fifteen bridges, most very solid, but the which
are the best two of Saona and masonry in a timber in the Rhone. Some
are hanging, and almost all are under pontazgo being of individual
companies.

In the central part of the city streets are generally straight and
spacious, especially the new ones, among which stands out the splendid
street _Imperial_, reputedly one of the most beautiful in Europe.
Along both rivers are docks space, where hundreds of boat dock and
boats, and many vapors plans, special construction for the navigation
of the Rhone and Saone. The city has many squares and plazas (up to
fifty-two), which are remarkable for their beauty and elegance of
the _Bellecour_ or _Luis the Grande_, espaciosísima and happy with
the equestrian statue of the king, bronze and beautiful gardens and
roundabouts, the _Napoleon_ with this statue, also of bronze
equestrian and many trees, which are confused with the broad avenues
that coming to the railway station called _Perrache_; _Imperial_
the square, which is a kind of _square_, very pretty, and the
_Terreaux_, which are the Municipal Palace and the famous Palais
des _Artes_ or San Pedro.

Square _Tholozan_ to the right bank of the Rhone, but not remarkable
for the beautiful bronze statue of Marshal Suchet, Duke of Albufera,
who made the war in Spain in 1808 and beyond. Lyon's story is very
interesting and their seniority, and the large role it has been since
the conquest of the Romans. The ancient city, they called _Lugdunum_
was all on the hill slopes of Fourvières, and burned it was rebuilt
send tocols Nero, extending on both rivers. Today he is two hundred
sixty streets, and four long driveways or roads that follow the
banks of the river, fifteen considerable fortifications around. Some
of the oldest churches are in ruins and today the restaurant, while
the completion or continuation vast constructions that
rejuvenate the city.

In front of the docks or berths manipostería are many buildings
of granite and stone monuments that are true and just call the attention
of the traveler. Among those are a lot of merit, for his majesty
and its importance as well as its strength, _Palacio of the
Justicia_ on the right bank of the Saone and the Rhone on the right
the huge buildings, blackened by time and grand facades, where they
are kept and Hospicio Hospital, which collected many hundreds of
orphans and sick bazaars also serving on the ground floor, where
there are countless shops and stores of all kinds.

We also take on the same streets of the docks other public buildings
of interest, but bare of all artistic value - such as the University
Library (which is of great merit and has a hundred thousand volumes),
the Military Hospital, the tobacco factory and butcher shops, on
the Rhone and Saone side, Customs, theater Celestino, stocks,
etc.. Lyon but does not have two theaters that deserve attention:
the Grand Theater, where only execute transactions, and match the
facade of City Hall high school, and the Celestina, for comedies
and dramas, built in a regular proportions of an old convent. Only
the first may appear as a monument, but junior, as it is isolated
and shows artistic pretensions, although its architecture is heavy
and coarse.

The interior is very spacious, but lacks the luxury and elegance when
compared to the most beautiful cities of Europe. The city now has a
beautiful modern-style market, ie, foundations and stone walls and
baseboards and craft iron and glass.

They are also running the Exchange, palace splendid, and very happy
to be a real monument to the arts and speculation. The City Palace is
a beautiful and elegant building, a simple architecture that
belongs to the era of first rule, lacking character, but cheerful and
unpretentious kidnappers. In addition, modern buildings are
in the style of the whole of Paris, specializing in always aim at
simplicity characteristic of the present century.

If the material is a kind of Lyon copy of Paris, in moral has something
that approaches caricature. Be seen in the attempt to imitate the
custom in those of Paris, but as opposed to the type southern
conditions there is a kind of moral struggle that destroys all the
local color without allowing porous assimilation.

Hence many uses that are exaggerated, and often encountered in the
streets and face with groups that have their good points extravagance.
Lyonnais The population is very liberal Republican and yet revealing
in its general style that stimulates a sympathetic character agreeably
to the passenger. And one of those apparent eccentricities of
the people, who never lacked for no explanation, that city, which is
an emporium
of wealth and living in the operations of a busy industrial and
commercial shows a strong inclination for fine arts, grown comfortable
with the dedication and enthusiasm, and has all kinds of monuments
that can boast more than one reason.

They are renowned orchestras Lyon, the theater is looking for
pleasure, work is beautiful works of sculpture, and Vanity Fair
Lyon retains its rich with museums and monuments and their schools
of painting, sculpture, architecture and music, and has been and
remains the birthplace of many artists of great merit.

The first monument to the traveler is visiting Lyon Palais des Arts
in the museums which are antiques, painting, sculpture, natural
history and geology and mineralogy, and as temporary room of the
Exchange.

The building has such a vast amount of precious curiosities from
their cloisters and galleries to their high terraces, which requires
a study of many days. That the reader will forgive me because
I was just given a very brief offer of impressions in just about
eight hours of observation very quickly.

If the exterior of the Palace has no merit, inside the interest begins
to be entered the large cloister patio, overlooking a terrace in
circumference, with balustrades of stone, as the entire building,
and a number of large groups and high reliefs representing many
historical passages, outdoors and outdoors. Most are excellent, despite
mutilation in many details, but some groups are so much credit for
the power and delicacy of expression and boldness of the chisel and
the chisel, that fascinate and delight, amazed to find such a fine
sculptures Gross in the stone.

The four cloisters contain a low enormous archaeological collection
exclusively Lyon, which alternates the most curious objects, some
(few) from the time before the conquest of Gaul by Caesar, and the
largest share of Roman, Byzantine and Gothic.
Hier. ii) that it is "the principle that forms the habits of
the soul for the reception of those most holy words and sacraments";
and again by its relation to heavenly glory, which is the universal
end of all the sacraments, when he adds, "preparing the way for us,
whereby we mount to the repose of the heavenly kingdom"; and again as
to the beginning of spiritual life, when he adds, "the conferring of
our most sacred and Godlike regeneration."

Reply Obj. 2: As already stated, the opinion of Hugh of St. These
consequences are due as inconsiderate, bad expiring acts (which
affects the senses as the cause, as "blame" and give physiological
Nothstände with Hülfe other Nothstände as "earned" out). -
"Declaration" of the general pleasant feelings.

These are driven by confidence in God. These are due to the
awareness of good acts (the so-called "good conscience", a physiological
condition, sometimes a happy digestive confusingly similar). These
are due to the fortunate outcome of Undertakings (- naive fallacy:
the happy ending to
a company or create a hypochondriac: a Pascal certainly not pleasant
general feelings).

These are driven by faith, love, hope - the Christian virtues. -
In truth, all these alleged statements and as follow-state translations
of pleasure or pain, feelings into a false dialect: one is to be
hoped in the states, because the basic physiological feeling again
strong and rich, you trust God, because the feeling of fullness and
A quiet strength giebt. - The morality and religion belongs entirely
to the psychology of Irrthums: in each case, confuses cause and
effect, or the truth with the effect of the lost confused as true,
or a state of consciousness with the causation of this state confused.
7 .

Irrthum of free will. - We now have no more sympathy with the term
"free will": we know only too well what it is - the disreputable
theologians masterpiece, which makes it giebt, to an end, humanity
in its meaning "responsible" to make the means they are subject to
...

I give here only the psychology all blame. - Everywhere, where
responsibilities are sought, it maintains the instinct of the
penalties and straightening wish to be, because the searches. It has
been becoming undressed his innocence, if any So-and-so to His will,
to intentions, to acts of accountability is fed back: the doctrine
of the will is much invented for the purpose of punishment, that
is found guilty of the wish to .

The entire old psychology, the will-Psychiologie its condition is that
their perpetrators, the priests at the head of ancient communities,
create a right to want to penalties - or to God wanted to create a
right ... The people were "free" thought to addressed in order to be
able to be punished, - in order to be able to be guilty: consequently,
every act had to be intentional, the origin of any action in the
minds procumbent think (- thus fundamental to counterfeiting in
psychologicis Princip psychology itself was made ...)

Today, as we move in the opposite occurred, where we Immoralisten
especially with all the force the concept of guilt and the penalty
term from the world once again removed and psychology, history,
nature, social institutions and sanctions of them clean looking giebt
it in our eyes no more radical opposition than that of the theologians,
who continue, with the concept of "moral world order" the innocence
of becoming by "punishment" and "guilt" to durchseuchen.

The Christenthum is a metaphysics of the executioner ... 8 What
alone can our teaching be? - That no man to man its properties
giebt, neither God, nor society, nor his parents and ancestors, nor
he himself (- the nonsense of the last rejected this idea as
"intelligibility freedom" by Kant, perhaps even been taught by
Plato ).

Nobody is responsible for ensuring that at all because he is that
he is so and so made is that it is under these circumstances, in
this environment. The Fatalität his care is not remove from the Fatalität
all of what was and what will be.
And this was not before the Passion, as
stated above. For our Lord's words to Nicodemus (John 3:5), "Unless a
man be born again of water and the Holy Ghost, he cannot enter into
the kingdom of God, seem to refer to the future rather than to the
present."
_______________________

THIRD ARTICLE [III, Q. 66, Art. 3]

Whether Water Is the Proper Matter of Baptism?

Objection 1: It seems that water is not the proper matter of Baptism.
For Baptism, according to Dionysius (Eccl. Hier. v) and Damascene (De
Fide Orth. iv), has a power of enlightening. But enlightenment is a
special characteristic of fire. Therefore Baptism should be conferred
with fire rather than with water: and all the more since John the
Baptist said when foretelling Christ's Baptism (Matt. 3:11): "He
shall baptize you in the Holy Ghost and fire."

Obj. 2: Further, the washing away of sins is signified in Baptism.
But many other things besides water are employed in washing, such as
wine, oil, and such like. Therefore Baptism can be conferred with
these also; and consequently water is not the proper matter of
Baptism.

Obj. 3: Further, the sacraments of the Church flowed from the side of
Christ hanging on the cross, as stated above (Q. 62, A. 5). But not
only water flowed therefrom, but also blood. Therefore it seems that
Baptism can also be conferred with blood. And this seems to be more
in keeping with the effect of Baptism, because it is written (Apoc.
1:5): "(Who) washed us from our sins in His own blood."

Obj. 4: Further, as Augustine (cf. Master of the Sentences, iv, 3)
and Bede (Exposit. in Luc. iii, 21) say, Christ, by "the touch of His
most pure flesh, endowed the waters with a regenerating and cleansing
virtue." The salon antique art is no less curious, though comparatively
poor ratings. It contains valuable collections of coins, medals,
cups and small plates of metal and weapons, ivory, wood, etc., Most
gladly by their scale and reliefs, which include groups of incredible
perfection that you've admired we believed, haunted by the allure
of modern industry, that the seniority, under the artistic point
of view, has not yet produced wonders above and inimitable genius
whose secret had been lost to civilization.

It is the outstanding collection of modern works Lyon artists
who composed the modest museum of sculpture or statuary. Although
there are some statues in marble and plaster indisputable merit, and
some bronze busts above, the collection is poor. There are,
however, there a statue of Pandora, marble pure, so beautiful and
delicate, which is worth around a museum, as well as striking at
the foot of a staircase, the colossal statue of Minerva, in plaster,
the work of a contemporary sculptor, which can appear with him in
the most splendid garden of Europe.

After the sculpture or statuary hall is located in the vast Palace
of the Arts of the interesting salon paintings containing special
gallery of painters Lyon.

It is generally observed in the style of these artists force quite
colorful, and a predilection for the landscape and history.
Although the collection is not very abundant and excellent,
well-deserved draw attention. They drew pictures of mia particularly
Claudio Bonnefond artist of high merit, not only by the master of the
brush, but by the deep knowledge that have revealed the effects
of light and perspective.

I remember having enjoyed a lot with the contemplation of a
small box that represents the refectory of a monastery in perspective,
for his precious strokes of light and dark energy from light. However,
I do not think artists are right for Lyon aims to be a school, if
you judge by the Museum. Another gallery much more vast and magnificent
pictures of the Museum contains common, and actually there are
works of merit outstanding, such as the death of Abel by Orsel and
Judit showing a head of Holofernes, by his superior work of daring
and vigorous forms of expression and painting.

But most of those pictures are modern copies, and although the
gallery is almost history, and contains several senior executives,
is not really surprising, nor leaves the impression masterpieces.
Miss that Lyon wanted to be at all costs a great artistic center,
without having spent some distinguished mediocrity (allow me the
expression), because the noise of machines and cars not there a
great spiritual development as appropriate to arts.

Much more estimable are the others in its genre galleries, purely
scientific, which include the Natural History Museum of Mineralogy and
Geology.

The first, which is not very significant, but deserves much capital
appreciation on a second order, is very well preserved and is a chosen
set of species most rare and remarkable in the various families of
the animal kingdom.

That is a true museum of the province, when compared with those in
London, Paris, Berlin and other major capitals, but it is comprehensive
and thorough and does honor to the opulent city of the Rhone, and
to France, but is even more interesting mineral gallery,
and the beauty of their samples (although somewhat messy) in
terms of crystallization and agglomeration metals and metalloids, and
by the richness and abundance of fine marble and stones. Reach hundreds
tablets containing the Museum of marbles of all colors and
types, many of Europe such as Spain, Italy, Switzerland and Belgium,
and especially from the rich quarries in France.

These are some impressive black marble, yellow, and graining, a product
of the Pyrenees, the mountains of the Jura, the Alps, the Vosges,
and so on. And to look so beautiful and varied samples is strange that,
comparatively, do not give France all the marbles in the application
that are susceptible. * * * * * The inspection of the Palace of
Arts, for that is fast, produces abroad visiting a major issue,
namely that society is evidently liked Lyon _por_ fine arts, but
not real artistic taste or _en_ arts since, in general, suffer from
their public works mediocrity and customs are not in harmony with
the exquisite distinction that is the hallmark of art.

This is as true as that Lyon are not distinguished, but in this kind
of toy art, call Art or caprice of fashion, unrelated to any inspiration,
and that is reflected in the beautiful designs of silk coming out
of the eight small factories of Lyon. Wherever the industrial
spirit is combined with art, is refined, delicate and graceful
work, because Lyon, despite its literary and artistic pretensions,
it is par excellence but a great manufacturing city and trade.

In my opinion, true art, which is inspired by the great things and
make great revelations, can not be born and live today in the affluent
cities, the buzz of speculation, the miseries and vanities of what
they call the _mundo_ farce and capricious fashion. If the mime or
drama, caricature, the waltz and the fugitive may appear picturesque
palace in the great metropolis of industry, politics and fashion,
not the sublime poem, the picture of severe painting, masterpiece
and divine architecture and sculpture, or the serious and solemn
harmonies of Mozart or Bellini. * * * * * in terms of monuments,
Lyon has some rather old and merit, which rightly drawn attention
of the traveler.

These include the Cathedral, the church of San Pedro and the ancient
abbey Ainay (_casa of Dios_ in catalan), and among the public
monuments of another mention the Hotel-Dieu, or House charities,
and the Palace of Justice.
forgot to note a curious circumstance that I observed at the Palace
of Artas and impressed me deeply.

Lyon Stock Exchange was established at the bottom of the palace, a
vast, dark room that was once a chapel.

When coming down to see the thousand objects of art that embody the
various museums, I heard a hideous clamor, as a great bacchanal
ground, deafened by their repeated echoes gloomy vault.

Curiosity made me close, and just being in the midst of indescribable
scene I believe that there was a bag of a civilized country. It is
still preserved in the walls of the old stone chapel, the groups
highlighted in thickness, representing the most Notable events
in the history of Christ. Mary was at the foot of a circle newscasts
thousand bag spreading lies about the issue of Italy, and in front
of a large Christ agiotistas and discussed the players on the stock
exchange dealings _tres by ciento_ the _cuatro and medio_ the
_primas_ the actions of _ferrocarriles_, etc..

There in the middle of the room a double barrier, and while the
outer layers of the scaremongers liars, players and speculators,
making proposals, disseminating news and eddies in a contradictory
tingling endless -- -within the large circle agiotistas were the
first order, holding a telegram with admirable aplomb mime representing
the game of money, and the smaller circle is waved the change agents
or brokers, making grimaces strangest one, the other energúmenos
screaming like to advertise each proposal or request for funds and
each _puja_, and finally, impassive as the priest of the cult of
money, raised his arm from time to time to mark on a board moving
upward and downward, on a conventional they are like the theology
of money.

¡Singular contrast, perfectly characteristic of the century!
Before the temple devoted to prayer, become legal casino and the cult
of the golden calf, the sublime statue of Christ above and below the
figure of the greedy agent of change, speculation, and rampant prosaic,
in the bottom of fraught with a palace and statues from ancient
tombs of senior management, a thousand treasures collected by the
hand of the patient and wise and disinterested artist!

That show is more eloquent than many volumes to characterize the
movement of the nineteenth century. * * * * * The cathedral of
Lyon, located at the bottom of the old part of town or Western,
amid ugly and winding streets, is a beautiful monument that would
have greater importance if it were surrounded by streets and buildings
better.

It's a huge mass of rock, pure, long and narrow, and corresponds to the
Gothic style of the second period, which includes the combination
of large ogiva and the full arc. If I am not mistaken, dating from the
twelfth century XIII. The facade is not a particularity, or the
shape of its towers, its relief, its bastions bent and everything
else that is outside, as this end of the chapels, all works that
do not correspond to the merit of the work inside.

Apart from the two orders side chapels, the body of the cathedral has
four ships, three substantive and one cross to form the large
cross characteristic of Gothic cathedrals.

The entire mass of stone, broad and bold, which makes up the vault,
resting on sixteen large columns, each composed of nine of
uneven thickness, which was launched to force the high ceiling
of stone, naked and bleak. The nave is a big bold, and there is
throughout the building that severity of darkness and solemn simplicity
that distinguished especially in Gothic architecture in France. The
absence of any luxury, all the gold ornaments and strangers
to the art itself , is there found, in the colossal mass of pure stone
and wood (no sumptuous marble or tiles) that austerely religious
feeling that dominated their creations to the peoples of the Middle
Ages artists.

Otherwise, the pictures painted on religious the stained glass of
high ogivas are a lot of merit, and therefore they can compete
with the Notre Dame de Paris. The choir has primordial sculptures and
bas-reliefs in beautiful oak and walnut, but it is difficult to
appreciate the darkness of the temple, always dark and lonely. The
Church of St.

Peter, who is also in Gothic style, pure and from the same period or
perhaps earlier, in the heart of Lyon, is still kind of a more
robust for its nudity, its sadness and its overall proportions. The
facade is beautiful, has just been restored (as will other ancient
temples), and one of the towers has a wealth of beautiful
sculptures or carved. Long and narrow, consisting of three ships
also cut into the ends, and its merit is in the audacity of the main
hall, full of arches and large ogivas. From rest, the mosaics in
glass no merit, and the whole building shows a desolation and
poverty that saddened.

That temple looks like a vast tomb stone, nude, black, dark as a
feudal castle. Ainay The small church, an ancient abbey, called the
attention of all travelers, not having merit as a work of architecture,
but because it is a very particular historical curiosity.

Some claim that was built in the third century, but the fact is that
the V data, having been restored in the ninth under Pope Paschal. It
is a low, low, pure Byzantine style, and for the same simplicity
that makes a great contrast to the overcrowded work of the temples
of the Middle Ages.

Ainay The church is the oldest of Lyon and the only one there kept
of the times merovingianos. It has three naves, and almost as wide
as long, has beautiful mosaic glass tiles that contain major and its
history in ancient characters or hieroglyphics, and it is also
notable for its four huge columns of granite, one piece, two which,
in a delicious blue, left a great piece found in the vicinity of Lyon
as a Roman column. I mentioned before the Hotel Dieu, which overlooks
the pier or parapet of the Rhone, a beautiful monument, worthy of
admiration for his grandeur and majesty.

Quote about the Palace of Justice, because both belong to the sumptuous
style of the Renaissance, when art is subjugated by the rules and
symmetry holds academic rather than inspiration, the palace, situated
on a square to the right of Saona and giving the front, has a splendid
facade resting on a huge monumental peristyle, which begins and
ends in huge stands in twenty-four great orders of Doric columns,
stone pure argue that the mass outside. The main body of the palace
is a vast and rich hall where public meetings are held court
_Assises_ and have released all the courts of Lyon.

A large rotunda with beautiful frescoes and reliefs covers the main
hall, supported by eight columns of thick granite and marble
and jasper are lavished on the floor and walls to give that 'temple
of justice "an imposing majesty. * * * * * In addition to public
monuments and objects I have mentioned, Lyon has many other institutes
of different order, more or less deserving of attention.

These are: the Mint, the big cigar factory, the deposit of
salts and plant the garden again, in imitation of the small
forest of Bologna - the nature of material, between religions, a
synagogue and several churches Calvinists in exercise, and among those
related to education, charity and typography, a hospice for deaf-mute,
selected hospitals, a library with 110,000 volumes chosen, an academy
and school of fine arts, notable for many colleges all branches of
knowledge, school of arts and crafts, astronomical observatory, a
Montepío, printing nearly thirty, with twelve or fourteen
newspapers permanent, and many other establishments that make a town
near Lyon in the
first order.

As Lyon is major center of silk production and manufacture, and
does so considerable role in the French business world and yet,
there are consulates almost all nations, and the movement of the
general speculation is huge and the nature of its changes .

The traveler that ignores certain details of the industry comes to
Lyon for the purpose of going to marvel considering the big factories
where they leave the rich silk, and that provide work for 80,000
workers of both sexes.

But what is surprising to see that such plants do not exist, and that
such an enormous production output Lyon is not the result of
operations, but details of very small companies and individual
efforts and patients that the taste and intelligence workers do much
more than the mechanics! In fact, the system for the manufacture
of silk is a kind of work rather than _destajo_ in that organization
in large-scale factories have established manufacturing facilities.
The silk is harvested on the plains of the Rhone, the Saone, and so
on., Owners of small independent and ready for collection after
the tissues by large speculators and factories considerable, and
then distributed by employers tissue, the weavers.

Lyon are counted as eight small factories, and although most owners
have their merits they sought looms and equipment, get some loans
or advances for the cost of installation. Each of these small factories
have five, ten, twenty, some thirty or more workers (though many
are rare), and the director, which is a kind of master-worker, get
this or the other a businessman and under of a free convention,
silks prepared designs or models for the drawings, and other carved
works that contain a piece of silk, and all necessary instructions.

The weaver executes his work with the greatest care, using the loom
and items needed, but doing everything by hand because no machine could
run the admirable vagaries of fashion, embroidery, drawings and fine
nuances that are not required when silk prints. Hence comes the
exquisite beauty and superiority and the high price and limited
quantity of silk from Lyon, the best in the world.

But of that organization free, spontaneous and unique work, are also
very significant economic and moral that caught my attention.
Of course, the first result is an independent worker, which, not
being stuck in a factory, is not subject to the law of capitalism.
Sustainable competition between eight factories and many small
employers who hire them, avoiding the errors that result from the
agglomeration of production in a few large factories, conjures the
overall effects of the bankruptcies and crisis is based on the
freedom to work, and sets on a regular basis the value of the
product.

Vése while the worker works with more interest and excitement, saving
raw materials, takes more time, working at home has less chance of
error and therefore more moral , is the consciousness of his
independent personality, and is covered in general, these fatal
collisions that often occur in large factories employing hundreds
or thousands of workers, unfortunately, not all products lend
themselves to this organization successful, since almost all other
machines perform admirably the work of man or the works are mainly
collectives. * * * * * CHAPTER III. * * * * * the Rhone Valley. .--
The general appearance Provence - Marseilles Overview - Interior
of the city .-- Industry and commerce .-- .-- Begging social groups.

The wide valley of the Rhone Alpes or trapped between the branch and
the chain of barren mountains of the Cévennes is a region extremely
interesting and beautiful. The Rhone, and flowing, but its slow going,
and often beyond the plain, followed by north-south direction of
the Cevennes mountains, almost always by the foot of the rocks or
steep hills and naked, vast plains fertilized which extends from
the Provence and Languedoc to the Mediterranean.

The train from Lyon to Marseilles follows the direction of the river
to Tarascon, and it deviates towards the east, to fetch the Tyro
opulent French trade in the noon. The turn of the track makes the
traveler has a great interest throughout the journey, because the
landscape is a charming magnificence.

To the left are from the east or north to south the Alps forming three
overlapping lines, one in which the clouds are among the steep
snow covered peaks, other than blue, vague and nebulous almost,
but not gigantic mountain highlights , and, finally, and significantly
lower, consisting of complicated mountains and hills that are
declining in amphitheater until you find your seat on the plains
of the Dauphiné and Provence, one of whose centers delay the city
of Grenoble.

In the West, dominate the sandy bed of the Rhone, which lies somewhere
between small forest of willows and poplars wild white crown of
steep, run the hills of the Ardeche, sad and barren, consisting
of a series of rocky hills and burned, cut to stretch themselves in
for some open. They lack any vegetation, because the winds of the
Alps are ravaging the land, and just look, distance away, and some
gigantic ruins of feudal castles dominate the highest eminences and
leaning on the cliffs, and some small stocks climb the foot of the
hills for protection of these castles, and far from each one resembling
a large nest of eagles joined the peaks of the rocks. In the middle
of these two very different formations of orographic aspect delay
opulent valley, crossed small tributaries of the Rhone, including
the Durance, which brings water from the poetry of Provence. Wherever
you queen doing the most careful cultivation of the valley a kind
of endless garden.

Reply Obj. 2: Ambrose here gives this reason why exception could,
without inconsistency, be allowed in the primitive Church; namely,
because the whole Trinity is implied in the name of Christ, and
therefore the form prescribed by Christ in the Gospel was observed in
its integrity, at least implicitly.

Reply Obj. 3: Pope Nicolas confirms his words by quoting the two
authorities given in the preceding objections: wherefore the answer
to this is clear from the two solutions given above.
_______________________

SEVENTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 66, Art. 7]

Whether Immersion in Water Is Necessary for Baptism?

Objection 1: It seems that immersion in water is necessary for
Baptism. Because it is written (Eph. 4:5): "One faith, one baptism."
But in many parts of the world the ordinary way of baptizing is by
immersion. Therefore it seems that there can be no Baptism without
immersion.

Obj. 2: Further, the Apostle says (Rom. 6:3, 4): "All we who are
baptized in Christ Jesus, are baptized in His death: for we are
buried together with Him, by Baptism into death." But this is done by
immersion: for Chrysostom says on John 3:5: "Unless a man be born
again of water and the Holy Ghost," etc.: "When we dip our heads
under the water as in a kind of tomb, our old man is buried, and
being submerged, is hidden below, and thence he rises again renewed."
Therefore it seems that immersion is essential to Baptism.

Obj. 3: Further, if Baptism is valid without total immersion of the
body, it would follow that it would be equally sufficient to pour
water over any part of the body. But this seems unreasonable; since
original sin, to remedy which is the principal purpose of Baptism, is
not in only one part of the body. Therefore it seems that immersion
is necessary for Baptism, and that mere sprinkling is not enough.

_On the contrary,_ It is written (Heb. 10:22): "Let us draw near with
a true heart in fulness of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an
evil conscience, and our bodies washed with clean water."

_I answer that,_ In the sacrament of Baptism water is put to the use
of a washing of the body, whereby to signify the inward washing away
of sins. Now washing may be done with water not only by immersion,
but also by sprinkling or pouring. And, therefore, although it is
safer to baptize by immersion, because this is the more ordinary
fashion, yet Baptism can be conferred by sprinkling or also by
pouring, according to Ezech. 36:25: "I will pour upon you clean
water," as also the Blessed Lawrence is related to have baptized. And
this especially in cases of urgency: either because there is a great
number to be baptized, as was clearly the case in Acts 2 and 4, where
we read that on one day three thousand believed, and on another five
thousand: or through there being but a small supply of water, or
through feebleness of the minister, who cannot hold up the candidate
for Baptism; or through feebleness of the candidate, whose life might
be endangered by immersion. We must therefore conclude that immersion
is not necessary for Baptism.

And one hand, through a small grove of palms, sliding cautiously six
or eight Indians armed with their spears, their ropes and their
maces and darts, in pursuit of a black tiger, whose eyes sparkle
and whose claws and contractions crispaturas muscular look of fear
and fierce anger that dominates the great bogey of the desert, when
he is attacked and is about to smash to defend themselves.

The groups are very natural, and while at times one feels the
terror of reality, believing they heard from the dense forest wild
cry of the Indian hunter or the roar of the beast bullied. The
attitudes of the Indians, their almost complete nudity, their cunning
eyes, their faces and copper mates, their primitive weapons, all in
order, or appearing in such shows of wax statues, life, passion,
the energy of their way to be and dangerous situation.

India is there, it amazes with its grandeur, with its terrible things,
their choke, frightened that their mythologies, their social misery,
his natural exuberance overwhelms the viewer born in the West ....
To make the most vivid contrast, the music of a great concert sounded
suddenly under the immense canopy of glass. It was Saturday night in
the visitors belong to the good society, because the palace is a
great concert and the tickets cost twice as the other days of the
week.

The attendance was very large, and huge concert hall was filled
individuals. I got out of India to move to Europe, cutting scenes
and arias by wild Overture refined civilization and a faith
that does not win much with the change. The British music,
judging from this concert loud, is not very sensitive or noble. The
chords were in the classroom do not know what the mean and
prosaic, of rough and slightly spiritual, extremely unpleasant
to me, however my ignorance of musical art.

The singing was even worse. _Luisa_ A lady who was very much in
vogue as cantatriz Indian in those days, did the main expense
in some solos, duets and trio, which encouraged the public to
repeat. The execution was flawed, as an English bill, pure and delicious
voice
timbre by spontaneous, but it lacked the heat of inspiration,
enthusiasm, life.

This is British society in terms of art, quite correct, but cold,
with no expansion or fire.

I do not know what there is of cantatriz parsimonious in English
or artist in general, suggests that, through the harmony, in bills
of exchange, the merchant ships of the East Indies and factories
madapolanes.

The British people is a society of social strength and greatness, not
merge well with the delicacy of art and inspiration of great
poetry. The audience at the palace on the day that I visited,
it was generally very choice, and however, its most applause went
to a noisy chorus vulgarísimo but extravagant (in English, of course),
which had every appearance of atrocious cries -- _hip-hap-hurrah_!
- with all the English rampage entertainment and banquets. The people
of England is a positive, honest and calculator, but in very poor
taste and habits too prosaic. _Palacio When I left for cristal_, by
necessity, because the night approached, I felt that I was holding
a secret, fascinating and weakening my will.

After penetrating the colossal temple of art, history and the wonderful
diversity of world civilization, I would not want a never quit.
Want to continue living there with the shadows and memories of all
generations, and deliver the heart and soul to the delight of
contrasts and an unlimited admiration. Ten minutes after leaving
that monument that is the pride of power Industrial England and
the noblest testimony to his cosmopolitan civilization, - dragged
on the bottom of a wagon by the hurricane is called iron _locomotiva_
felt this vague sense that we are forever in the memory after a
wonderful dream.

I seemed to be the plaything of a dream, - a name or likeness without
enchantment, in whose shadows, bright roamed the splendid image
of Colombia, but then, when I shake the magical wonder said: No! this
is all true - is the reality of progress, the picture is admirable
for a multiple of this, immortal, divine, led by the hand of
God in its pilgrimage through the centuries, whose human name, and
will developing day by day, moment by moment, on the face of the
entire globe, this immense piece of light, strength, life and
well-being that protects us all and is called CIVILIZATION!

... * * * * * Apart from what I have quickly pointed out, London has
many, many objects worthy of careful study, because they are of great
interest to science, industry, commerce and social life. _imprentas_
And his hundreds of other establishments for publicity of thought,
deserve much attention, for its greatness, the immensity of its
production and brilliant progress reached by the mechanism and the
typographical art.

Suffice it to say that there are printers, such as the _Times_, which
give occupation thousands of writers, composers, editors and
employees of all sorts, and whose colossal presses, which
are the proportions of a building, producing more leaves per day
that the printed press gathered throughout Colombia. _Banco The structure
of the material Londres_, its administration, its prodigious
wealth and its functioning, are objects which by themselves cause
the attention and curiosity of the traveler eager to understand
and appreciate the economic conditions in the United Kingdom. stuns
thinking nomas in the value of each transaction day occurs at the
Bank of London, not counting hundreds of private banks that have a
huge credit and stored in their boxes and underground most of that
money spread around the world.

It is those banks that leaves the sap that enlivens all industrial
companies in the world and is in the cabinets of those millionaire
bankers, like Rothschild, combining the most colossal speculation
channels, telegraphs, railroads, mines, etc. For all continents -
or resolve major policy issues internationally, under the loans and
other combinations. The _Bolsa_, monumental building, the Bank of
England, is no less interesting because of its organization, and
complicated by the role it does in all the major economic and political
events. The _Bolsa_ of London is the infallible thermometer of the
credit, all governments and major banks in the world, the general
trend of policy, the changes and fluctuations in the value of the
currency and the popularity of most notable companies. Immense
sanctuary of credit, the stock exchange is also the burial of a thousand
fortunes collapsed and consumed there, and the birthplace of a
thousand others that suddenly rise on the ruins of the ill, or those
who have cheated too much with the whims of luck.

Vortex for about - wave charity for others, the Stock Exchange - ocean
of credit and speculation - is the mobility of the treacherous sea,
in keeping with its inscrutable life as death. God free the Colombian
people of this institution, despite the great services you can
provide! The Republicans do not need people to measure their prosperity
and credit of another thermometer that of freedom and opinion. The
_vapores_ the _Aduana_ the _Casa of correos_ the _estaciones_ of
railways and telegraphs, institutes and grassroots volunteers of
_beneficencia_, _Parlamento_ sessions, and many other objects of a
public nature, requiring careful study in London and very thorough
- as well as their large _fábricas_, which are the true symbol of
the prosperity of England as a producer and trader.

But how do you investigate that? - Studying such objects known is the
United Kingdom and for achieving such an outcome requires years
of careful observation, touring the country in all directions. While
that has not had that good fortune I must confess my ignorance,
just as I looked, in passing, a part of the exterior appearance of
one large complicated society.

The same considerations make me general waiver of summarizing the results
of my impressions. Not only happen with great justice for a pedant,
but that would expose me to see all contradicted my findings, which
have a high risk of being wrong, lack the knowledge of all of the
details. I said how I have so far been _impresionado_ so little
I've seen _personalmente_ in England.

The survey will give me more then any right to judge that society has
seemed to me so grandly contradictory in the beginning. London has
also, as artistic curiosities, some very noticeable public squares,
so they are not in themselves, but by the beautiful monuments that
contain in their center. Of this genus are: the splendid Piazza
_Trafalgar_, which contains the monumental statue of Nelson, whose
elevation is 276 feet, of George IV, Sir Charles James Napier, etc.
And the Place de la Bourse, where stands the magnificent equestrian
statue of Wellington, the _Cheapside_, whose center is in severe
and manly figure of Robert Peel, the great English reformer;
_Hyde-Park_, where are the statue of Achilles and Wellington - and
many others that _squares_ have statues dedicated to men more or
less historical.

In general, these monuments are very severe and simple, but the
pedestrian or equestrian statues are in poor taste and artistic
imperfect execution. Contemplation of these monuments of the glory
of the great people and the gratitude or admiration of the people,
causing me great pleasure, because in England no such demonstrations
are the work of the rulers, but the spontaneity of the public,
discerning the whatever prize.

An people know that honor the memory of its great citizens,
forever in bronze or marble, in public squares, in view of the
world, can not ever be a slave. Devoted to the cult figure of patrician
still keeps the fire of patriotism, national pride, legitimate, and
the stimulus that impels to seek greatness and glory in the sublime
act of self-sacrifice, selflessness or heroism.

And on the day of a conflict popular, the crowd know that their
point of reunion is at the foot of the statue venerated because she
reminds the people what they deserve right, freedom and honor
of
individuals and the nation.

But the great interest that encloses London This capital-nation,
in every sense a millionaire, do not feel sorry to leave an impression,
when one reaches the last of the vast metropolitan suburbs (coming
from Colombia), an experienced inexplicable feeling, which is a
mixture of fear and curiosity, fantasy or illusion of fascinating
and certainly no one is prepared to find anywhere but greatness and
wonders.

Leaving London in the direction of Paris (in terms of which are
prevencion is a very nice idea), the passenger does not feel neither
joy nor sadness, but lassitude, fatigue or indifference.

Full of disappointment, leading the impression that the social contrast
is revealed in the supreme wealth and the most impressive progress
of civilization, beside supreme misfortunes, horrible inequalities,
and shows in great misery and degradation, and never known in the
New World.

Thus, by leaving London, I do not know what it feels relief because
it has waged a tingling from that of people away, that huge noise
that stuns, and the fascination of so many oppressive greatness (as
good as in bad) , which robs the spirit its freedom of action and
personality. - On March 23, at eight o'clock at night, I
expected the vast station _London-Bridge_ the time it was the express
train from the rail Dover.

People in the office did their job, weighing the luggage, stamps,
etc.., So ignore my luggage, I could go to Paris free of tax records
and discomfort. After prolonged whistle was heard on the locomotive;
- take our seats in the fluffy wagons, and started as a hurricane
interrupted the shadows under the arches of the pier and the
_túneles_ road and away from the city, which seemed a colossal
fantasy of extravagant shapes and indefinable. * * * * * CHAPTER
VI. * * * * * FROM LONDON TO PARIS.

The wagon Dover .-- .-- .-- The passage of the entrance to Calais
France. - Calais Amiens .-- .-- The ceroanias Paris. Any description
would be impossible if I were to give a very rough idea of the
landscape at least interesting that extends to both sides of the
railway from London to Dover.

The rapidity of the march and night prevented me look even external
objects. The moon was shining with that sad pallor that give your
fog light frosts in March and if stretch stretch reverberate in a
park, a small canal, or the white walls of a bridge - or we highlight
a side the majestic shadows of the groves, castles or rural buildings
in some cities or small towns - the variable was a fantastic scene,
but himself to impress the poet who offers useful ideas for the
traveler.

Inside car (wagon) that I went with my family, had an interest of
another kind, funny actually, as is everything from table manners.

The eight soft car seat with a complete English and a French couple.

The English, a kind of barrel of colossal dimensions, snoring and
whistling as the locomotive was delivered to the deepest sleep. It
seemed that the movement of the train, far from uncomfortable to sleep,
you give your ride a fast and exciting kind of sweet swing. However,
from time to shock when he woke up, as if he were to skip a
spring, and twice heard him utter asleep, the words _A thousand
pounds! _ (Thousand pounds) with a dramatic tone of joy. Perhaps the
good _John Bull_ dreamed some speculation advantageous. English makes
a business to sleep. The French couple was one of those marriages that
are _bourgeois_ balance between vulgarity and good sense.

Since I spoke Spanish with my family, or sometimes in poor English,
the two Frenchmen believed to talk openly in their own language without
fear of falling. The lady, quite beautiful French (a rare thing in
French), showed the most desire to return to live in Paris to enjoy
the pleasures of fashion, it seemed his only concern, while the husband
only thought of future speculation, deeply penetrated the Yankee
spirit.

For their extravagant and grotesque understand disputes that came
from within the United States, where he had spent several years
and made a fortune. The contrast that made me interested in both
types, because somehow I was the key to the French character in
both sexes. The French, by temperament extremely resilient, but retains
all its parle mocking spirit and much of its surface joviality and
their distinctive features, it fits easily in all situations. Leaving
his homeland with generous instincts are metallize the United
States, if it protects the good fortune, and return all four sides
by Yankee.

French is a Turkish or Chinese, if necessary, assuming all the
conditions of the race or adoptive society, with rare ease. The French,
on the contrary, retains his personality everywhere. She is always
pretty (in the sense harmless from the floor) and away from the
purchase of English pride, austerity gazmoña something of the
Spanish, the quiet modesty of the German pretentious or wantonness
of the women of North America - remains faithful to that set of
lightness and gallantry, independence and charm, indifference and
apparent futility constant, which is somewhat contradictory to the
nature of the French.

So let us never forget their concern to seek pleasure, taxed cult
fashion, captivated by the grace and shine anywhere on the attractions
of a spiritualism _de forma_ (if I may paradoxa) allied to that
material in the futility that leads to women in general. snoring
decent English even with all the energy of an opulent abdomen,
and our two Frenchmen still disputing with heat on their life
projects of Paris, when the train stopped at the jetty _Dover_ .

Everybody ran to the port, the vapor-mail application that would lead
to Calais, through the English Channel. It was half past eleven,
and the moon lit up the magnificent scene melancholically small port
of Dover, in whose bottom stands out as a great bridge of stone and
wood thrown into the air, which facilitates the loading dock on
the fumes.

Dover (_Dubris_ port of the Romans) is a relatively new city, a small
but very nice, from the county of Kent, has a population of about
16,500 inhabitants, whose life is almost exclusively at sea, their
occupations, and at 43 miles of Calais, 113, and London, with its
coast that most closely approximates to that of France. There was a
military one, with a vast citadel dating back to the beginning of
this century, there were the Roman station, and much later the Normans
a fortress, which was surprised by the Republicans at the time of
Charles I. In Customs, which is a good building, and its comfortable
or quarry docks for shipbuilding, Dover is interesting for the beauty
of its streets straight and wide, their houses and elegant setting
of his great work for the poor, which are manufactured in lot sails
and ropes and other objects similar to the merchant navy. Since
the passage of Calais is so close, and its vapors and postal service
as well maintained, the port of Dover is probably the most frequented
part of the Anglo-French.

Dover is also notable for its submarine telegraph, which communicates
with Calais, and was the first telegraph cable laid in Europe. * *
* * * When separated from the steam-dock package that led to France I
felt a triple sensation deep, which kept me for over an hour on the
bridge, worried and silent contemplation.

By a singular fortune, the English Channel was calm and bright as a
terrestrial lake resting in the gentle light of the moon. The scene
had a look of majesty that cause sweet dream and handed over to the
cherished memories. Behind the north at the bottom of the small port,
highlighting the huge shadows, bulky optics by the sea, the customs,
quay The railroad station and other buildings of the port, leaving
more, half confused between the vapors of the night, the moles
of the inner part of the city. And on either side stretched the
British coast, a vast mortuary tape, crepe white on black
background,
lying on the lap of the sea, whose waves of sobbing almost
imperceptible.

The clean vapor wake glowed with a mate and phosphoric glow, the
sky was an admirable serenity, whose beauty to mention the glacial
cold of the breeze - and far, in all directions, he saw light and
shadow effects delicious produced by the soft ripple of the sea.

But if this show impressed my heart dreamer and traveler attracted
my curiosity, found among the countries whose shores sailing, I am
committed, as an observer, a deep concern.

In northern England was in the south would soon discover, the coast
of France. On one side was a free people, a land of independence and
individuality, classic country travel cosmopolitan, enterprise
universal, advertising, commerce, machinery and marine equipment.
Another France, a land of glorious memories, but something versatile,
endlessly sympathetic, despite their serious flaws - classic country
of science and art, literature and the heroic deeds - that omnipotence
which removes the _social_ individual.

England left at liberty without equality. In France would find equality
without freedom .... I departed from the British coast without
regret but with respect. The England is a country that does not inspire
sympathy, for many reasons, but always conquers the estimate,
or at least respect.

Now although
the effect depends on the first cause, the cause far surpasses the
effect, nor does it depend on it. Consequently, a man may, without
Baptism of Water, receive the sacramental effect from Christ's
Passion, in so far as he is conformed to Christ by suffering for Him.
Hence it is written (Apoc. 7:14): "These are they who are come out of
great tribulation, and have washed their robes and have made them
white in the blood of the Lamb." In like manner a man receives the
effect of Baptism by the power of the Holy Ghost, not only without
Baptism of Water, but also without Baptism of Blood: forasmuch as his
heart is moved by the Holy Ghost to believe in and love God and to
repent of his sins: wherefore this is also called Baptism of
Repentance. Of this it is written (Isa. 4:4): "If the Lord shall wash
away the filth of the daughters of Zion, and shall wash away the
blood of Jerusalem out of the midst thereof, by the spirit of
judgment, and by the spirit of burning." Thus, therefore, each of
these other Baptisms is called Baptism, forasmuch as it takes the
place of Baptism. There are still many pagans in the large,
foreign countries and continents, and yet the Christians here send
out God's servant, faithful to the commandment of the Savior
below, but to the poor gypsy nobody cares, even though they are the
whole Christian world, so to speak, under the eyes around!
"The gypsies are not to have religion." This is a frequent claim,
and thus everything should be dismissed? One feels no further
responsibility, whether in church or in Christian circles?
[Footnote 6: i.e. language researchers are interested in the gypsies
rather than in general, the servant of Christ.

D. H.] Does not really a religion of the gypsies go? - Why the Gypsies
never says "of" God, but always "my" God? (Miro baro Dewel # # -
my great God!) Will he not suggest that he also had a God, whom
he as his God from the other man differs, or is it just a random
voice habit?

Not least it proves that the gypsies also believe a supreme being!
And he also believes in an afterlife of the deceased after death.
Depending bring him happiness or unhappiness. In order to
avoid the latter, it considers the manners in relation to its
strict dead.

The veneration of the dead is so great that only the most urgent cases
could move him, even just the name of the deceased to pronounce. An
oath or in the grave is well kept unceasing holy and as such at
the hands of his father's (vast dadeskero # #). Prasse A # # (curse)
on his death (insult remoteness) can only be atoned by blood. The
grave of a deceased's taxes, if it is only possible after a year visit.
At the grave of a tribe is not a cooperative gypsy gone without
a few drops of wine, beer or spirits daraufzugießen. In the New
Year's night, after the living, the dead "a good New Year" is desired
in the Sylvester hour solemn silence in a few drops of wine, beer,
etc., on the ground geschüttet with the words: "For the
dead," But are the Gypsies of religion have?

However, with the help of burning pyres and the gallows, as it
formerly popular, or removing the children, they can not force
religion and morality.

The result will always be a negative.

And if the treatment does not improve, if this poor, unfortunate
people continue to unjustly persecuted and despised by the rest
of mankind, it is very, very difficult to make them love and
respect for the religion to awaken to these same people they want
to bring what their words so little by their deeds confirm.

But one thing is certain: these poorest of the poor would use their
ears and hearts open - the religion of love! That is, in fact, been
proven. There are gypsies, not the religious community, but
pray to God, from time to time in open, free field level, this
God, according to confess their sins, confess, repent and nothing
more to do sinful vow, solemnly this day holy by then abstinence
and the most devout wish to be there so if you can say.

I could name some of these gypsies lead. One of these Gypsies is
still very special to me in memory, this acclaimed as a young lad, all
years starting from Good Friday, 6 weeks no meat to eat. The aims
of a gypsy was hot! He has remained faithful to his vow until his
death 2 years before now, despite all kinds of temptations. During
this time, the hedgehog (the well known and favorite food of the
National Gypsy) on the "fattest," therefore best, after the gypsy
flavor.

Since he was elected by comrades so geneckt by him once with
a thick, delicious and appetizing hindfoot (rear ham) from a hedgehog
(the greatest delicacy of a gypsy) and appealed to tease him and
totally break his vow to seduce wanted. But despite this almost
a gypsy "superhuman" temptation he resisted the same steadfast!
Such and so much he had to go through and broke but never, until old
age into his vows.

Fromm was in their nature, also my mother. Although no school was
visited by a church completely no speech had no idea of reading and
writing had, but they prayed every evening and morning with their
children an ancient prayer in our language. It reads: # baschau Me
mange telecharger # (or: Me staua pre # # or: # dschaua Meh nikli)
Dewlester Soraloben ani, ani Dewlester Baroben, ani Dewlester
Songlienger Council, as hi latscho, Hako Mulenter because kerela
mange kenk mitschiko Dscheno tschomoni. O Dewlesker Dad, Dewlesker
Tschawo o, o Dewlesker Mulo, priserele man! # I put myself down (or:
I stand on or I am going to continue) in the power of God, in
God's power in his (rose colored) rose-red blood, for all the evil
spirits and ghosts well that I have received no evil man is doing
nothing. God the Father, Son of God, Holy God. Spirit, bless me, you
had 9 living children, was a # »brawi Dschuwel« #, but when she
first had children, was an interior conversion in it - they
practiced their Gypsy Spaces no longer enough, so they and their
family, who formerly lived in abundance, often in bitter distress
came.

Even their children taught them nothing more to say by the mother if
they had not learned, for example, Fortunetelling. Why? Because they
are in any case often heard of such a disgraceful trade and on
their way in their last pious heart even thought!

Fromm she was! Imagine this woman before, which lasted until her death
it was left, with their 9 children? What worries, concerns, expense
and effort was placed on their shoulders? Often derided by the tribal
members who face it hineinsagten that it was not a pity that it
do so poorly - why they do not exercise more, because she's the
honorary name (brawi Dschuwel) and had similar!

Of the allegations made by the husband to remain silent. This can only
understand the customs of the gypsies in this relationship
knows.

Nevertheless, they remained steadfast.

They liked the concerns almost to the ground press, she remained
firm and prayed diligently every evening and morning for their
children the above mentioned prayer before and taught them to pray
the same course.

Oddly, however, and it was - it never went into a church, no
priests wanted to know what. In their speeches they did not just
respectfully away, they just called it the "black police," How
might this woman came to be such to say?

What she may have experienced?

Of which the history of the Gypsies and their persecution and
maltreatment knows of these same professors and preachers of the
religion of Christ, this is easily able to answer questions!

Likewise, they celebrated each holiday (Easter, Christmas, Good
Friday) and efforts are stupidly to what their person concerned,
the largest abstinence.

But otherwise, they are cautious of its kind (!)

So she would like to make pilgrimages to famous places of pilgrimage
and though the final cash it goes, but always to a certain purpose,
eg if they are bigger projects (a Gypsy "Business") want to run.

Then they pray, vow a vow, in the case of a good success of the
proposed transaction.

It was already some "business" run with the greatest confidence
that they will not be caught and jailed, they have to God or praying
to Mary, a vow done in order for them to their "business" and assist
the business to their sort unfortunate not expect.

What do they know of them (who would have told them already?) That
this same God's
commandments as a sin has been prohibited, - what they do and want
to ensure its success they pray to him!

Oddly, however, that the Gypsies are more Catholic than Protestant
religious appeals.

In any case, just about, because the Catholic Church Zermonien more
on his senses and imagination waving longer correspond to its nature,
as the simplicity of the Protestant Church.

Sooner let the gypsies and their children happy even more frequently
than once baptized, - but only because the regular, usual godfather
gifts. In what religion is it does not matter - whether Catholic or
Protestant. So, I am a Catholic baptism, a sister and my brother
Protestant. Church and was formerly a secular Zigeunerehe rarely closed.
Nowadays, he baptized the children, but in order to introduce its
legitimacy, it behaves as if it is invariably present church and
the trust can receive a civil marriage.

Proof of which is now well be that the Gypsies of religion is not
insensitive are when they are packed in the right place, i.e. in
their language, the message proclaims salvation and the rest takes
something on their own Gypsy species. No tree falls on the first
blow. The experience would confirm these words.

Not the alleged Unverbesserlichkeit of the Gypsies were the fault,
but the limited work of Christianity, which in this relationship so
far has failed.

But with the rescue of the soul must go hand in hand - the improvement
of the external circumstances of the Gypsies. The success would be
more surprising. Therefore away with the superficial saying the
Gypsies are not for religion to have! Can you, who are so leichtherzig
says, prove it seriously?

No, now it is high time now, American Christians, this is finally
up for failure, thus not your responsibility will be even bigger than
it already is! # Tschatschopaha. # * * * * * Before long years now
a family overwinters this "traveling" Black people in a village.
The children had to go to school this winter. The oldest boy in the
spring should "come out of school", (_In it yet so little "came" _.)
The place was Protestant, the Catholic students but baptized. This was
the reason that when he ¼ year the Protestant village school was the
Catholic priest from the nearby town Oberamt him the ticket for
¼ been paid to the Catholic school and as long as he "was out of
school" in the spring. So was the boy to type a double "Travelers".
From the "traveling people", he was now even a "traveling student"
by his morning in the Catholic school in the city Oberamt traveled
by train and in the evening back home.

Here he met really good people to know and love and sympathy for the
despised gypsy did it so well that he wanted, always so happy to
be able to. The impressions that he is by dealing with these good
people received, he remained in constant remembrance. This happiness
was not of long duration. The day the school was dismissed.
The parents of the boy wanted for a long time - that the little snow
melted and the lovely sun began to smile - "move" to the broken
through the winter migration continue.

Impatient of them was the Schulentlassungstag expected - the only reason
they withheld from the journey. The boy on the other hand, wished him
far, far back. Forgiveness - only too quickly, he was there! As
the boy of noble benefactors physical nourishment during this time
received (because the parents, too poor, he could not mitgeben),
so he also received from them anything to celebrate this day belonged
to, clothing, shoes, etc.

The heart of the boy was overflowing of joy, not just because of that
he perhaps for the first time in his life so pretty and proper stood
there, but mainly because of loving words, which all sides have been
addressed to him. So rare as a new "whole" suit, so rare was
such a sympathy for people who otherwise only be treated with
contempt, in the life of this boy!

His great joy one could read it by the face, as he completely with
the other "confirmation" to a community meal in the rectory, with
the Lord and his pastor who was invited.

But it wanted a sense of sadness creep than the other boys he looked
and listened as each other with pride and joy told what they wanted
or could be.

Each stressed the merits of his chosen profession, and everyone
thought the best to have chosen. Here was the "driving" boy still!
Here, he could not say. What he probably is? Nobody thought of him
to choose a profession, learn about it! Had the angel here but
found that every man must have something to be to achieve something!
Had a saving hand shown, and it would be out of the boys had become
something very different than it is now!

But the incipient sadness vanished, as a stroll in the nearby
forest was what the party and decided a nice day. It was a beautiful
spring day. On the green meadows, the flowers blossomed. On the trees,
the flowers have germinated from them and from anywhere sounded
sound of birds. Everything was joy, pleasure and life! All too soon
passed the merry hours of this - the last day, the boy under these
good people zubrachte.

In his highest happiness - he was suddenly removed from the rough fist
of the inexorable fate into his zurückgerissen - old life. The proposed
hours vagina. They escorted the boy to the train. The lively crowd
noticed in their happiness is not as sad and empty it into his heart
looked. A final handshake, some loving, comforting words of
farewell to the good, truly noble priest, a swirling scarves, a
whistle - which rustled the train.

The farewell was hard, the boy thought he would return everything,
love, joy and happiness.

The heart wanted to break him before homesickness and pain.
Dark, gray, the future ahead of him - without a ray of happiness!
And he would have been happy so happy! When his men arrived, the car
was already packed. One last night in a cellar. Empty and desolate
grinned him the future from all corners of the bare room opposite.
Empty and it looked bleak in his young heart out. In the
morning, soon after a durchweinten night, was continued. Where? But
never was the happiest boy that time forgot all his life. His
post eventful life could never efface the memory of it! Neither the
memory of the truly good and noble priest whose teachings, words, and
his venerable form again and now even after a long, long years ago,
before the eyes are.

Especially memorable to him the day his school dismissal. He was and
is the most beautiful and happiest of his life. Often happy and
thinks he still - or perhaps especially now - at this joyous and
happy childhood and youth back. This day is for the whole lifetime
of a ray of hope and remain for _Engelbert Wittich_! # Tschatschopaha!
# "Client Issues for Gypsies." Heft 1 = Urban, R. =, the language
of the Gypsies in Germany. 30 Pfg. "2 = Wittich, E. =, looks into the
lives of the Gypsies. 40 Pfg." 3. = Bourgeois, Dr. H. =, Short
Grammar of the Central European Romany. 30 Pfg.
While he who baptizes seems to hold rather the position of
father. But this is unfitting for a woman. Therefore a woman cannot
baptize.

_On the contrary,_ Pope Urban II says (Decreta xxx): "In reply to the
questions asked by your beatitude, we consider that the following
answer should be given: that the baptism is valid when, in cases of
necessity, a woman baptizes a child in the name of the Trinity."

_I answer that,_ Christ is the chief Baptizer, according to John
1:33: "He upon Whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending and
remaining upon Him, He it is that baptizeth." For it is written in
Col. 3 (cf. Gal. 3:28), that in Christ there is neither male nor
female. Consequently, just as a layman can baptize, as Christ's
minister, so can a woman.

But since "the head of the woman is the man," and "the head of . . .
man, is Christ" (1 Cor. 11:3), a woman should not baptize if a man be
available for the purpose; just as neither should a layman in the
presence of a cleric, nor a cleric in the presence of a priest. The
Wiseli was quite surprised since. No man had cried to his mother, and
it had only himself to cry, if nobody saw it.

Because the uncle wanted to, after all, not yelling, he said, and before
the aunt had it much less cry. And now, once someone was on
there, the tears came, because it is something of the mother had
said.

The Wiseli was it felt as if the carpenter Andres his dearest friend
in the world, and it took a great love for him. Now it ran with its
carnations them and was like lightning on Buchenrain arrived. And
that was good because it just looked like the two boys to the house
supply, and it could not order everything at home after they arrive.

This evening Wiseli prayed with the heart so happy that it did
not understand how it yesterday so despondent could be, and had no
confidence and joy had had his song to say. God had certainly not
forgotten that it no longer wanted to think. Today, he had him so much
joy, and falling asleep Wiseli still saw the good face of the
carpenter Andres ahead with the tears of it. On the following day,
it was now Wednesday, Otto saw the same surprise as the day before
because he did not contain, with the others from the school office
hinauszurennen in the first moment of liberation.

When he then wanted to go to work and the door aufmachte - because
everything was already done and the room in good order. Now the thing
began to excite his curiosity. Also, he was the unknown benefactor
so thankful that it pushed him to this. On Thursday he wanted to
watch, as the case receives. When the school hours on
end, and everything fortlief, Otto stood thoughtfully for a moment
in his place.

He did not know quite where he best fits with the benefactor could
waylay.

But with einemmal took him a sprightly crowd of guys, his class
fellow, at all corners, and the voices cried out in confusion: "Come
out!

Out with you! We will make robber, you are the leader." Otto fought a
little. "I must indeed make policy this week," he cried. "Oh,
what," she replied, "because a quarter of an hour. Come!" Otto had
continued tear, in the silence he relied a bit on his unknown
friend, him from the punishment would protect.

He thought it was unspeakably pleasant to make such care to have in
the back. For the quarter was more than an hour, and Otto would have
been lost. He ran panting back to the school office to be his
fate, and pushed the door with such a clatter, that the teacher
immediately from his office came into the classroom.

"What hast thou willed, Otto?" asked the teacher. "Only once more to
see," Otto stuttered, "well sure whether everything was in order."
"model prison," said the teacher.

"Your zeal is commendable, but the doors are half-suit is not necessary."
Cheerful Otto went away. On Friday, he was determined not to stain
the clear, until he was in the clear, because there came to him only
the Saturday morning. There was admittedly still high order made.
"Otto" cried the teacher, as the bell on Friday four clock beat,
"the contract to me quickly slip to the Lord's priest, he gives you
back books.

In five minutes you're back to Cleanup. "That was not quite right
Otto, but he had to go. Moreover, he could so the same again.
In little jumps, he was in the parsonage. The Lord pastor talked
with anyone yet. The woman cried Pastor Otto in his garden,
he had reported her as the mom and the dad go and Miezchen and
uncle Max and relatives in Germany. And then came the Lord
pastor, and Otto had to explain how he came to the mission was
and what his teachers have said otherwise. Otto then finally had his
books, and arrow, he was quickly over, tore the door of the school
room to - everything is in order, everything stopped, no human
beings to see. Now I have the whole week not a single time since
the gruesome Tatters have to bend over, "thought Otto satisfied.
But who has the terrible job done, without that he had? That he now
wanted to know any price. On Saturday, the school hours at eleven clock
to an end. Otto had all the children go, and now as the school
room was empty, he appeared in front of the door, closed it and
leaned with his back on it. So he certainly had to see if someone would
go, because he wanted so rather than start with the heavy work. He
stood and stood - there was nobody. He heard the clock half past
eleven beat - there was nobody. In the afternoon, but stood
before a trip, this morning it should be eaten for lunch. It should
be as fast as possible home. He therefore had to enter to work, it
grauste him.
Reply Obj. 3: The other sacraments are not so necessary as Baptism.
And therefore it is allowable that an unbaptized person should
baptize rather than that he should receive other sacraments.
_______________________

SIXTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 67, Art. 6]

Whether Several Can Baptize at the Same Time?

. [93.] The idea of time is not a feeling: that is relative, this is
a condition of our being, all that refer or compare, not for anything
in it. When we experience the feeling, if not having an option other
than the feeling we would be limited to the pure sensation,
without considering either before or after, or relationship of any
kind.

Feeling, being restricted to certain species of objects, can not be
extended to all, as does the idea of time. With this measure not only
the external world, but internal, not only bodily ailments, but
the most remote and more abstract spirit of our actions.

As the time, yes, the same succession, and in our understanding, be
entitled to the succession, the spirit does not offer anything sensible,
even when the weather relates to them and be like them in the
loop, it is not them them, or none of intuition alone. In the time
which measures a series of sound and a vision, it is clear that the
idea of time can not be neither the vision nor the sound, but the
perception of its succession, its link. If the single vision or hearing
alone, enough of them to perceive the time, which is absurd because
there is no time without succession, and consequently there will
be no time measuring the two sensations, if any.

This idea of time is independent of either, is superior to them, is a
kind of universal form, independent of this or that matter, for so
that if after the sound instead of vision, we unexpectedly offered
another sound, the measure of succession shall be identical, and
this is just the idea of time.

Sensations, such as simple facts contingent, not necessary
and universal truths found not serve as a foundation to a science: but
the idea of time is one of the most capital of all the physical sciences,
and be subject to rigorous calculation, as extension, then it is
not a feeling, nor can be born from it. [94.] purely experimental
knowledge is limited to the sphere of experience, the idea of time
is extended to real and possible order: not only teaches the
_hay_ that, but what have _puede_ and _debe_, all relations of
absolute necessity, can be subjected to rigorous calculation, then
holds something more than supplied by the experience, both as
insensitive sensitive. Without this, it is not possible to explain the
necessity involved, or leave a contingent collection of facts,
coming to the possession of a scientist. [95.] Noted in passing
that here we find another proof of how wrong it is ineffectual and
the system of Condillac.

Until now, we could not explain it with any of the fundamental ideas,
and it manifests itself in the same time, which by its nature
must be looked into more intimate relationship in the order sensitive.
[96.] If the idea of time is not merely experimental, what kind are
the priority and necessity? CHAPTER XIII. OPINION OF KANT. [97.] Kant
seeks to explain the time uses the same theory that has been
used for the space. Eventually, he says, is not itself, nor
are they inherent in things: it is a subjective conditions of
intuition, an interior, through which events are offered to us as
successive and as space are presented as ongoing.

Speaking candidly, I think saying this is not to say anything, is to
a very well known, but not explain. Perceive that what we see
in succession, in succession to perceive our own perceptions,
who ignores it? But what is succession? this is what you should
explain. [98.] Kant says that the time is just us, but I ask, if the
estate is only us. Kant claims that we know nothing of the outside
world but which have such appearances or phenomena, but does not deny
that the outside appearance can be a reality. Well, if this reality
is possible, there can be no removal, and removal are not conceived
without succession, without time or succession. [99.] According
to Kant, the ideas of space and time are _A priori_, are
not empirical or experimental, then do not founded science alone
could say what they had experienced, and this only with respect to
cases that had had experience. This is true, and I have shown in the
previous chapter, but giving this priority, nothing remains for
the system of Kant.

The ideas of space and time, but _A priori_, could very well be reflected
in reality, as is verified in accordance with the theory that I
have explained. [100.] It is true that time is not something
that exists by itself, but no that does not belong to things as
an objective determination, and there is nothing left of him,
regardless of all subjective impressions of intuition.

We have proved that time does not subsist by itself, is absurd and that
without a lasting thing that lasts, but it does not follow that the
order represented by the idea of time, not a thing in real objects.
In dispensing with our intuition, there is still something that
verifies what the propositions that express the properties of the time.
[101.] The German philosopher seeks to turn the time into something
purely subjective, and based on the following reasons. "If time is
an inherent determination to the things themselves, or a computer,
can not precede the objects as the same condition, therefore not
be recognized or perceived by priori_ _A synthetic judgments.

This last fact is easily explained if the weather is nothing but the
subjective condition under which intuitions are possible
in us, because then this form of inner intuition, can be represented
rather than the objects, and therefore _A priori_ ....... "If we
make abstraction of the way we perceive ourselves internally, and
to embrace this intuition all external intuitions on the faculty
of representation, and therefore we take as the objects themselves
can be , then the time .....................................» is nothing
I can say that My representations are successive, but this only means
that we are aware of them in succession, ie in the form of inner
sense.

The time is not for nothing that in itself, nor a determination
inherent in things' (transcendental aesthetic). [102.]

It is easy to observe that the German philosopher struggle between the
two problems: 1. ª How can we explain the need enter into the idea
of time, if it does arise from the experience 2. ª If not derived
from experience, how can you really find things, or at least how
can we know who is in the them?

This infers the author of Aesthetics, which is not possible to save the
need enter into the idea of time, if not make it a purely
subjective, in a form of our intuition, if it is not entirely independent
of the reality of things. I think that sticking to the principles
set out above can be given while a target value, regardless of
our intuition and explain its relationship to experience, saving
the need fully contained in the idea of it . CHAPTER XIV.

EXPLANATION KEY OBJECTIVE OF THE POSSIBILITY, AND THE NECESSITY OF THE
IDEA OF TIME. [103.] The things in themselves, regardless of our
intuitions are likely to move: moving when there is succession:
when succession there is a certain order among the things that happen
that order, although not exist by itself apart from the things, is
really the same things. Kant would argue that the changes might
not be in things but in the same phenomena ie in the way they are
presented to our intuition, but at least you can not deny that
whatever it is the reality of these moves are at least possible,
regardless of the phenomena and then assures that the time for no
reason of things is nothing, and that alone is the way to our inner
sense.

If you admit the possibility of moving real must admit the
possibility of a real-time, and if denied the possibility that
things in themselves are really move, you ask how they're impossible
to know this, he, which limits our knowledge purely phenomenal. It is
not possible to know that something is impossible in a computer,
when nothing is known about this order: Kant argues that if we
know nothing of things in themselves can not defend that we know
that the impossibility of actually moving. [104.]

It is therefore shown that the time, or a computer in real things, is
at least possible, then we can not say that time is a purely
subjective condition, which may fall or be anything in reality.
[105.]

Taking and the possibility of an objective value to the idea of
time, not only with regard to the purely phenomenal, but also
the transcendent or to things in themselves, regardless of our
intuition, we will see how can express the objectivity of the idea
of time and its relationship to experience, saving the
intrinsic necessity which makes it one of the main elements of the
exact sciences. [106.] considerable time in things, the computer
is being and not be the same. The perception of this in the
most general, all objects it contains, is the idea of time. As it
is clear that our understanding can be considered purely an order
of things possible, that the time spans not only the reality but
also to the possibility. This is the reason because we conceive time
before and after the world today, like the space that we imagine
beyond the limits of the universe. Lift the idea of being a region
purely as possible, which dispenses with any individual phenomenon,
it is clear which must be free of the instability that is seized
objects of our experience of this sort may be a scientific imperative,
because it expresses a relation that is not affected by any quota.
With the above observations are rolled all the difficulties. CHAPTER
XV. Corollary. [107.]

The idea of time, derived from the experience? This issue is resolved
with the idea of the body. No one is feeling any kind existing before
and all intellectual act, but a perception of being and not be
attached to all our acts, but not separate us until it eliminates
the reflection, everything that does not belong .

This perception is the realization of an innate activity, which,
although subject to the terms of the experience in the beginning and
continuation of their actions, it is not with regard to its laws,
because these are characteristics correspond to the order and
intellectual pure. The activity takes place in the presence
of the causes or occasions exciting and ends in the absence of the
exercise of that excitement, but while the work activity, exercise
their functions according to fixed laws, independent of the exciting
objects. [108. ] miss because of the idea that time itself does not
emanate from the experience, but as this spirit is excited to unwrap
his activity, but not entirely independent of experience, because
without this would not be known mudanzas and hence the understanding
they would not be in the order of being and not being, that is the
essence of time. [109.]

From the above it follows that the idea of time is not a form
of sensitivity, but the pure intellectual order, and while
descending to the realm of sensible experience,
so does the way that other concepts. [110.]

The idea of time is one of the most universal and indeterminate
perceptions that exist in our minds; it is nothing but the combination
of the two ideas most universal and indeterminate being and not
being.

This is why the idea of time is common to all men, and which
give us a way of our concepts, and all known objects.

The ideas of being and not be entered in all of our perceptions as
elements, generate the idea of time, and for this reason we find in
the heart of our soul, as a condition that can not be removed
and which unable to relieve the same infinite Being, but by an
effort of reflection. [111.] Transit of intellectual order to the
realm of pure experience, there is the idea of time, in the same
way as in other intellectual concepts .

Because I have nothing to add to what I have explained in the appropriate
place (Lib. IV, cap, XIV and XV). CHAPTER XVI. IDEAL WEATHER AND
EMPIRICAL PURO. [112.] Time is not conceived simply as a
sequence general removal or as a relationship of being and not
being, but as something fixed that can be measured with any
accuracy. Thus, before the world today, we not only an order or a
time in all its abstraction, but also a time composed of years,
centuries, or other measures.

But this, although it reflects, is nothing but an idea which we
conceive under a general appearance, the phenomena of
experience, taking them out of the limelight, and referred to in the
field of possibility. There were neither the years nor the
centuries, when there was nothing which could be measured. If
regardless of the measure and the measured object, and even denying
their existence, imagine a kind of vague background, a line length
that is extended to infinity, we find ourselves with a game of pure
fantasy, a game considered by razon severe, is a set of contradictory
ideas. [113.]

The idea of time considered in all its purity and abstraction, without
action, is a simple relationship between being and non being. The
measure only takes place when the pure idea of time is combined with
the phenomena of experience.

Obviously we are changing beings, and being in the midst of others
who are equally, we would have the greatest confusion in our ideas,
if by that ebb and flow of stocks that appear on the outside as in
the interior, we were not there reported an extremely easy to refer
to fixed measures, which serves as a focus for the maze of endless
variations. [114.] For this we turn to two things: 1. ª
sensitive phenomenon, 2. the idea of th number. For a
time the idea of common, vulgar, used to the generality of the uses
of life, is composed of three elements: 1. º pure idea of the time,
or relation of being and non being. 2. º a significant phenomenon,
which we apply this pure idea. 3. º numbering removal of this
phenomenon.

Get the test, apply this observation to all the time and miss
seeing that all three elements are sufficient, but all three are
essential. [115.] Hence the need of the time is still considered
empirically, since it involves a metaphysics and mathematics, applied
both to a fact. Metaphysical concept, the relationship of being and
not being; the mathematical idea, indeed, the phenomenon sensitive,
such as the solar movement, the stellar etc, etc. Metaphysics
and mathematics are responsible for the absolute certainty, the
fact is responsible for the observed experimental certainty, and
furthermore, this phenomenon is assumed true, then, that if necessary
prescindiria of reality and can only attend is that time still
considered empirically, may be subject to the exact sciences. [116.]

In this theory there is no need to convert the time in a purely
subjective condition, or provide an independent nature of things: the
order intellectual Pure was reconciled with the experience and the
man is in communication with the real world, without putting in
contradiction with his ideas. CHAPTER XVII. RELATIONS BETWEEN THE
IDEA OF TIME AND principle. [117.] explain the true sense of principle.
It is impossible that a thing is and is not at the same time.

At first glance it seems that the link of the ideas contained in this
principle is such that there can be no difficulty in his explanation,
so that by simply raising questions about its true meaning,
we are in contradiction with one of the truths core which supports
the whole edifice of our knowledge.

For if there is any doubt about the true meaning of the principle,
is a sign that can be understood in different ways, and then there
is also a doubt whether the generality of men is better understood,
and thus if they served a solid foundation in the building of
knowledge.

This objection, at first glance
very serious, if it ceases to be reflecting that the evident axioms
can be considered in two ways: empirically or scientifically, or
in other words, serve as the application, or as subject to a
screening.

Under the former, are of equal certainty and clarity for all men under
the second, may be subject to difficulties.

Things equal to one third are all equal, this empirical question,
it is absolutely certain and evident to all men, from the wisest
to the most rugged, all compared to one third the amount of equality
or inequality as we want to ensure , which is nothing but an
application of the principle expressed.

If you are asked the reason for this procedure but not the axiom
stated in precise terms, refers to it in different ways.

These two tables are equal because we have measured, and both have
four feet long.

"Probably the majority of men who are not accustomed to reflect on
their knowledge, and therefore generally do not separate easily
from the particular, not acertarian to express the principle in
terms of universal and specific, saying: "these two tables are equal
because they have a common measure, and things equal to one third
are all equal, 'but why not leave the principle of knowing with
absolute certainty and clarity, and without danger of mistake at
all possible or actual cases.

This I call the principles of empirical knowledge, knowledge that you
have all the perfection in the direct order, lacking only the
reflection of the order (Lib V.

I, chap. III).

With this clarity, sufficient for all uses not only common but also
scientists, it is very difficult to reconcile in the analysis of
the principle, so in the above example you can analyze the meaning
of the word _igual_, which leads to the analysis of meaning _cantidad_
of another word, and these things can work out real difficulties
finding the reflection that, even if not to disturb human kind in
the possession of truth, not to be left by this event.

The geometry is certainly a science that leaves nothing to be desired
in his evidence and certainty, but who would deny that the court
called the metaphysics of the idea of extension, offers serious
difficulties?

The arithmetic is undoubtedly a universal science, yet the analysis
of the ideas of quantity and number, necessary for it raises issues
of abstruse in the field of metaphysics and ideology.

In general, we can ensure that no branch of our knowledge, that can be
exempt from difficulties, if it considers in its root, but those
that arise in the realm of thought, no harm in any way the accuracy
direct knowledge.

Infiérese from the above that there is no objection to the principle
of the analysis offered difficulties and that this is not to hesitate
for fear the building of our knowledge.

Besides that little mind not address these objections
if they exist in reality, a problem does not disappear with no
turn a blind eye to it.

Look in vain without fear because the true meaning of the principle
of contradiction. [118.]

It seems that the principle does not exist or is meaningless, unless
it presupposes the idea of time, and secondly, there is no concept
of time, if not presuppose the principle of contradiction.

Will venture by a vicious circle, and that nothing less than the
fundamental principle of all knowledge? Here's the problem: Highest
presentémosla still performing these indications. Presupposes
the principle of the idea of time, since the contradiction is not
being checked and if not do not refer to the same time.

Clearly, this last condition is absolutely indispensable, for in removing
the simultaneousness no objection to any one thing is and is
not. Not only there is no problem here, but we are constantly
experimenting in all that surrounds us. We continually being and not
things that happen in the non-existence to existence and non-existence
to existence.

Although the principle of simultaneity is not expressed, would be
provided by the proviso, for that way no advance in this part to
adopt the formula of Kant (Lib V. I, chap. XX). Whatever the terms
set out in the beginning, it always one thing that can not be and
not be at the same time, but that may well be and not be at different
times.

Then the idea of time is needed to contradiction proves that in some
cases and in others it disappears, while containing simultaneously
engenders contradiction holds in succession, it negates the
contradiction, since the being and not be impossible, if not
presuppose a length next, whose various parts can distribute things
that otherwise would be contradictory. [119.]

The idea of time in turn presupposes the principle of contradiction,
because if time is no more in the things that being and not to be and
in understanding the perception of this being and not being, that
we can not perceive the time without having to be perceived and
not to be, and how these ideas can not be considered without
succession presentársenos without contradiction, that when
perceive the time we need perceived by the same principle.
Therefore it seems that
Baptism should be deferred for a long time.

_On the contrary,_ It is written (Ecclus. 5:8): "Delay not to be
converted to the Lord, and defer it not from day to day." But the
perfect conversion to God is of those who are regenerated in Christ
by Baptism. Therefore Baptism should not be deferred from day to day.

_I answer that,_ In this matter we must make a distinction and see
whether those who are to be baptized are children or adults. For if
they be children, Baptism should not be deferred. First, because in
them we do not look for better instruction or fuller conversion.
Secondly, because of the danger of death, for no other remedy is
available for them besides the sacrament of Baptism.

On the other hand, adults have a remedy in the mere desire for
Baptism, as stated above (A. 2). And therefore Baptism should not be
conferred on adults as soon as they are converted, but it should be
deferred until some fixed time. First, as a safeguard to the Church,
lest she be deceived through baptizing those who come to her under
false pretenses, according to 1 John 4:1: "Believe not every spirit,
but try the spirits, if they be of God." And those who approach
Baptism are put to this test, when their faith and morals are
subjected to proof for a space of time. Secondly, this is needful as
being useful for those who are baptized; for they require a certain
space of time in order to be fully instructed in the faith, and to be
drilled in those things that pertain to the Christian mode of life.
Thirdly, a certain reverence for the sacrament demands a delay
whereby men are admitted to Baptism at the principal festivities,
viz. of Easter and Pentecost, the result being that they receive the
sacrament with greater devotion.

There are, however, two reasons for forgoing this delay. First, when
those who are to be baptized appear to be perfectly instructed in the
faith and ready for Baptism; thus, Philip baptized the Eunuch at once
(Acts 8); and Peter, Cornelius and those who were with him (Acts 10).
Secondly, by reason of sickness or some kind of danger of death.
Wherefore Pope Leo says (Epist. xvi): "Those who are threatened by
death, sickness, siege, persecution, or shipwreck, should be baptized
at any time." Yet if a man is forestalled by death, so as to have no
time to receive the sacrament, while he awaits the season appointed
by the Church, he is saved, yet "so as by fire," as stated above (A.
2, ad 2). Nevertheless he sins if he defer being baptized beyond the
time appointed by the Church, except this be for an unavoidable cause
and with the permission of the authorities of the Church. You can
have the Office of Manage Vomitivs, I must, I Eckelt himself, his
mouth already hold Veste. Dießen people calling cheeky and proud: I
seh to fame and Ehr; Where desertlike otherwise the world as I
could be called; fordre I think rank, because if you do not point
to siehet, And to glory and fame and not personable bemühet, And
not what is on hold, will not geacht, He is not a Compliment made
after his request.

What you do not save the world from false Ehrsucht rasen? Drum laments
one that the fields and woods so empty of Haasen to our times is
one dieweil Likewise in the city like cattle with foot zweyen. The
honor from the world known to be clever and hoarse; The fame, a
Newspaper = Blat record the boys, their names The meldt, attracts
many Thoren at that their fantasy of what the corrupt folly in their
spring infuses so närrsch the words sound, So cradle imprisonment
it smells, the world market, as Lohrgen there was missing, what
Dorilis geschwazt; How Phillis her husband Aug, mouth and beard
scratched; What Strephon wiederfuhr because he looked Kräutgen; How
sharp Luppinens mouth the wrong Buhler cursed; Thalon What up what
those woman gewust The cradle Bey sat how much the flea gehußt As
a master's son Stephen with Fickgen made wedding; What is a water
flow was driven ashore; How many books here in a year printed
Melintes How much cabbage and eingeschluckt pills; How much it giebt
monks, the wise bear habits, how much Partheyen in Schöpp chair sue
Obs rather that the I instead of Y sets?

Whether cleaning up the language is not broken, if, as often happens,
the word Gemüthe write, So that the love H darbey back remains. If
Diess = hero of the spring, when the Diess Criticus (The name is
already afraid if I should call him.) Hat on Papir lubricated, and
sent into the world, (The fact that everyone looks wise, as his
mind blinded ) And some printers rich, poor but made his name And
now look at some of Blat, So he laughs about himself that he is in
the south and north (Through his foolishness,) has become well known
enough. freuet It is his spirit when child and mob speak: This is
a clever man!

the same is probably not! scholars also say well where is his equal?
Where is a wise fool sense of easy reach? delights Bildt Before he
(the madness giebts him) that he must be a journalist and
polymath Seyn; And although the most important he say all the
people, Sun must be the way to fame and prepare Ehr! I Only this
striving after, and not print the emotion in me by Mark and cut
wires. jauchzet He, if he sees that his beautiful things, The man
needs to cheeses, make the people laugh, And
when a trunkner mouth, after the whistle stinks Bey a glass full
of beer, his Stückgen reads and sings.

How many prison is dissolute Vetteln, only from the idleness of her
Brod beg, ordered and built.

Secondly, a man may be called a sinner because he wills to sin and
purposes to remain in sin: and on sinners in this sense the sacrament
of Baptism should not be conferred. First, indeed, because by Baptism
men are incorporated in Christ, according to Gal. 3:27: "As many of
you as have been baptized in Christ, have put on Christ." Now so long
as a man wills to sin, he cannot be united to Christ, according to 2
Cor. 6:14: "What participation hath justice with injustice?"
Wherefore Augustine says in his book on Penance (Serm. cccli) that
"no man who has the use of free-will can begin the new life, except
he repent of his former life." Secondly, because there should be
nothing useless in the works of Christ and of the Church. Now that is
useless which does not reach the end to which it is ordained; and, on
the other hand, no one having the will to sin can, at the same time,
be cleansed from sin, which is the purpose of Baptism; for this would
be to combine two contradictory things. Thirdly, because there should
be no falsehood in the sacramental signs. Now a sign is false if it
does not correspond with the thing signified. But the very fact that
a man presents himself to be cleansed by Baptism, signifies that he
prepares himself for the inward cleansing: while this cannot be the
case with one who purposes to remain in sin. Therefore it is manifest
that on such a man the sacrament of Baptism is not to be conferred.

Reply Obj. 1: The words quoted are to be understood of those sinners
whose will is set on renouncing sin.

Reply Obj. 2: The physician of souls, i.e. Christ, works in two ways.
First, inwardly, by Himself: and thus He prepares man's will so that
it wills good and hates evil. Secondly, He works through ministers,
by the outward application of the sacraments: and in this way His
work consists in perfecting what was begun outwardly. Therefore the
sacrament of Baptism is not to be conferred save on those in whom
there appears some sign of their interior conversion: just as neither
is bodily medicine given to a sick man, unless he show some sign of
life.

Reply Obj. 3: Baptism is the sacrament of faith. Now dead faith does
not suffice for salvation; nor is it the foundation, but living faith
alone, "that worketh by charity" (Gal. 5:6), as Augustine says (De
Fide et oper.). Neither, therefore, can the sacrament of Baptism give
salvation to a man whose will is set on sinning, and hence expels the
form of faith. I was a little reckless, it may be, I confess, but I
rushed it because I cut first, and cut my face, which is a very serious
matter. Asiguró me the same friend who had not the recollection of
that that
I left in the shop showing the sebum.

The of cocky, I tried: I have no guilt, came to the same movie, and
maybe I would have died if I have more confidence and am a little
more lerdo.

It was all yours fault because the incident caused. who did not speak
either, I said very true, when the game came to the meeting.

This time, as I defended my right, because they were to catch fire
at night and in the open : I was approached with guns, and without
giving me voice prisoner, I threatened to scream in a way that
was scary, they were going to settle my accounts, for Matrero:
and the head was not speaking of any but a them, and it seems
to me is not how to make arrangements, or who is innocent
or guilty to the least.

With news like I am very happy and I introduced myself as others may
want to go do it. From my children only two I have found so far, and
found happiness that I thank Heaven. To all who spoke asked for
them, but I do not give any reason for his whereabouts. Coincidentally,
the other day she came to my attention a race among several
big ranchers, as a trial and many, although not carrying half.
not missing, as is understood in that gauchaje Embracer, many who
already knew the history of Martin Fierro, and there were kids
watching some parejeros.

When I heard the name came time saying who they were but I knew,
because I was very aindiao were too old. The junction of the cries
of hugs and kisses left pa women, as they understand the game. But
man, that we all do what compriende mesmo, sings and dances in
public, embracing and crying in secret.

The only thing I have is that my wife to death, that pursuit of an
unhappy boy is the Sun the town, where there will be endless miseries
suffered by the way, that, finally, to a hospital to stop half Thu
dying, and in this abyss of evils died the very short time.

I swear that I have never lost to find consolation, graphical many
tears for me I knew the event. But let sad things but I have no
joy, I think the boy has templao and we're willing to see how he
does and judge their performance. You do not know I have confidence
in them not because they take my blood-that of the least-juera, but
because boys have lived graphical suffer. The two are amateurs; they
like to play the game, we're going to see him: this is lame ...
children of lame. the eldest son of the Penitentiary XII MARTÍN FIERRO
656 while the branch looks like the tree from where you, my mother
used to say, and I fixed his reason: "I never could speak with
authority on teen's father." 657 recall where we were without
coats, or walk ramada win or go get corner, or get that shirt.
poncho that Ni taparnos. 658 Blessed is he who does not know what
it is to live without shelter; I declare them green, but is otherwise
known, small graphical he lived in as desmparo. 659 Not mermam the
same rigor that relief, might not be erased because the decrees of
destiny, as all parties are harmful calf. 660 lives looking for
bugs crack, the vermin that güerfano is no compassion, and that he
is without direction, without guitar plug. 661 feel that the listener
will say to any table.

Neither house had, nor mother, nor kindred, nor brothers, and
everyone cleaned their hands on the living without a father. 662 What
it crosses one of the bulging lazazo one of a carpet, it looks
for another slap, and in the meantime bear often or sometimes do not
find him throw a zoquete. 663 If you collect, treat it with greater
rigidity; think much perhaps, when it shows the skin, if you are an
old rag to cover his nakedness pa. 664 I grew up, because as I
say, sometimes naked and hungry, I was earning my livelihood, and
craves the years passed, the man expected to be another kind of
torment. 665 I ask all not to forget what I'm going to say; in the
school of suffering I have taken my lessons and made many graphical
reflesiones that started out in life. 666 If I commit an offense
inorancia motivates me, not with arrogance and I will tell you in
conclusion that I was working from Pioneer in a room . 667 The fact
that you can always send the poor suffering one, a neighbor killed
him Boyero an owner, and though I blamed it came true in the case.
668 Think men honored at the shame and punishment that would soul
full to me, and so early, just to hand with crime poison. 669 said
two others on the case of dijunto, but is not clarified the matter,
and the judge, ready for them, "as a Amarrados Christ, "he said,"
Iran together. "670" In the courts I will send all three of them.

"He was right that a judge, as yearning and threatening; ordinary ...
is like doing what I knew then. We sent 671, as I say, that
ordinary courts, and juimos with a summary of the prison malevos that,
for a new baptism, he is called penicentiaria. 672 Why is that name
naides I said to myself, but I was so anxious esplico: to tell you
prison penance daily suffering that existed. Criollo 673 that fell
into disgrace has to suffer a little; naides not protected
if it has no resources.

Gringo is more speech: When killed, do the loco. 674 I do not know the
time it ran at that sepoltura; ajuera if not rush, the matter goes to
pause, have the dam Sigur sleep and leave the cause. Inoren 675
the prisoner will be inclined to side balance, but the delay is so
that I tell myself: man stop that inside there ajuera hope. 676 laws
perfection perfection Without rigor, I suspect that the inventor must
have been a damn: that is a
big crime, that punishment is higher.

That's 677 to break the heart more lofty, the key chains are passive,
but more dry and hard that maybe the same wall where a captive
moans. 678 is not in cricket or chains with Usté punished, but in
solitude and silence so projundo, it seems that the world is the
only one. 679 The most arrogant man and cormillo Gastao agobiao
there will your heart and withered, finding encerrao alone with his
offense. 680 In this prison there are no bulls, lambs are all there,
can not the more haughty, to be among those gates, but their ears
and suffer amujar callao his confinement. 681 And I say to all the
rigor Inoren those sentences, I, who suffered the chains of fate
and inclement: esperencia seize the evil head of others. 682 Oh!

Mothers, who run the son of his spine, not fools to think that, or
a forger who speaks what is being inmate does not know the campaign.
683 Daughters, wives, sisters, how they want to a man, tell them
to that prison is a fearful hell, where you hear more noise than
the beat of the heart. 684 Alla day has no sun, no stars at night
without it worth it encerrao complaints purified, and her tears
splash on the walls that . 685 In that terrible loneliness in his
chest hear the heartbeat, I know, because I have suffered, and
creameló the aulitorio, perhaps the souls in purgatory to make more
noise. eternas 686 hours to account those more tormented; tear to
his redamarse estimated in its afliciones, counting their beats,
which expands to dry.

There are 687 more tame the wild, there duebla most juerte; silence
is so that when I get to come to him for feel the footsteps of death.
688 Inside the same man is a revolution that put in prison, not to
look so much nothing, it is saved and born the idea of perfection. 689
To my mother, my brothers, in all I thought, man that there
thankless more memory, it faithfully depicts ajuera saw everything.
690 One who has lived free to cross wherever they are distressed
and desperate for Captive found there is very much alive to torment
abate the soul more fierce. 691 At the close imprisonment without
poderme form, did not cease to esclamò: what would I have to mount
a horse and they run a pampa!

692 A constant lament is always embretao; punishment inventao have
to enclose it in darkness, and as there is a amarrao not Fierro duebla.
693 There is a sad thought that the prisoner did not torment; a
low pain ducks head to the end, because it is the sadness of a
poor sister present. 694 tears poured their eyes, but does not
reduce his sentence in this constant fighting without a lull,
contemplates with envy that happiness of the soul.

No 695 consolation penetrates behind those walls, but the man of
guts, but harder than a bolt, put in one hell suffers, groans,
cries and silent. 696 In the heart juror is asked to blow, but there
is not only endure but calm scope.

Blessed is in trance so hard, who knows pray! 697 ¡directs his
prayer to God knows where a prayer! In this world of
tribulation moans forgotten, and the pain is not found when projundo
compassion. 698 In so cruel grief, suffering on so hard, beginning
to gray after a few months, there a thousand times I regretted not
having learned to read. 699 comes the first juror, after the
melancholy in my distress had no other relief or consolation, but
that water ground with tears night and day. 700 To visit other
prisoners their families used to go!

Naides I visited me while I was locked up. Costia Who was there to see
a helpless! 701 Blessed is the jailer who has a good heart! I know
that few can attain this blessing, as if compassion is their duty
to hide. 702 never expressly As my tongue may have suffered; sit
down in that, keys, walls, locks are saved in one eye that sees
them to sleep . * * * * * The 703 can not mate, she is allowed to
talk, not let you sing for your pain, until the terrible hardship
of not quit smoking. 704 Justice is very severe, often border on
cruelty: suffering the poor that there is calenturas and delusions,
as no esiste pior martyrdom that eternal loneliness. We talked to
705 bars for a taste of just talking, but we are sending is accurate
and quiet, because it is irritating to those who can punish us.
Without saying a word 706 suffers in silence its evils, and in a manner,
it becomes animal, privao major gift that God gave to mortals. 707 I
can not understand why it is that the prisoner is deprived of most
precious gifts that God just gave a gentle humanity. 708 Well of all
goods, inorancia what I infer, that haughty man gave his Divine Majesty,
the floor is the first, the second is the friendship. 709 And the
law is very strict that, for a crime or a vice, put a man to torment
the most tremendous and appalling, deprived of a benefit that has
received from God. 710 espanto cause loneliness, the silence causes
horror, that continuous Terror is the torment harder, and one other
such prison is Sigur rigor.

Inoren a 711 if there will sepoltura the pa, which is in trouble looking
for his lao another, as is always guen have fellowship bitterness.
Another 712 wisest may find better reason, I am not elaborate, and
this I feel very light: they gave to the Lord nailed to a cross. 713
And in the darkness projundas that esiste my reason, my heart that
resists nameless torment, as the man honbre happy and sad to talk
about consoles. * * * * * 714 Grábenlo as stone As I said in this
song, and although I have suffered so much, I must confess here:
the man who demand there is little short of a saint. guen 715 are
the others (his example is handled), but why not leave things to
be tremendous, and compriendan all think the meaning of my complaints.
716 and save it to your memory timeliness with which to clear them
as I said: a lot will have to suffer if they do not believe in my
truth. 717 And if my words will not be serving jail filled; as
manejense guen not ever forget it, here there is no more reason
rather than the put. 718 And with me this job (everyone has to
forgive): none should forget the story of a bastard.

Anyone who has experienced recently has to be enclosed. THE SECOND SON
OF MARTIN FIERRO XIII 719 AD What I'm going to put in any doubt, and
although the hairy thing is, the resolution will do, Ladino
is the heart, but the language does not help. 720 The stringency of
the misfortunes we have endured ten years, among strange pilgrim,
without having to live and forced to endure a machine damage. 721
The living that way is a tributary of all, lack the primary head
and the children he supports scatter accounts when the short rasario.
722 ansi all I did until the end of his life he knew my fate and I
picked a girl at his side, where she lived quiet and lacked nothing.
723 There was not any care that does not work, and boy crazy what
happened to lazy, rightly saying that it is short guen. 724 On me
all your love and care he, as a child I wanted to true love, and
named me as heir of the property she had. 725 The As soon wine judge
died old.

"Of the goods that leaves you," he said, "I have to care is a
regular rodeo and two flocks of sheep." 726 It was man glibly, with
more than a law Dotor, told me: "you're smaller, and the years you
have you can not manage property, I will nombrarte a mentor." He
took a count of 727, because he understood his role, and after that
it was good cake amasao, encargao took the lead one, and I took
him. 728 Soon my poncho was the same as sieve; chiripá was the pior,
and although I'm pretty cool for me was no longer a cold cloth or
pa, or the pa heat. 729 In desabrigo so sad after a month, was
another month, the judge was silent, misery filled me, I remembered
my aunt to see me in such nakedness. 730 is not to say download the
time I spent there, and After walking as ansi moro no sir, I went
to the tutor to be able to take care of me. 731 XIV I took an old
man who showed the early Hilacha, left to see the look that was
half Cimarrón, renegao very, very thief, and vizcacha called it.
732 What the court was looking suspect, and I am not mistaken, but
this does not play or aviriguo secret, my tutor was a former of
which are already low; camándulas full of old 733 with a packing
the bull, he always put on a Muslim I do not know what enriedos
with leg and parrot lie between the toes. rodiao He was 734 dogs
that were all his pleasure, never ceased to be under half dozen
cows killed outside for feeding. 735 Carniábamos night after night
to pay some respect and leave the backlog stood there in ancas
leather, it was sold to a tea by pulpero, snuff and drink. 736 Ah,
my old trader more I found life.

This leather steals arranged the cake, and from there pulpero and he
was estendía the certificao. 737 The missing restrained; transquilas
in, saw what was like a beast if he cut a sheep; but it rises a
fleece or a pair of scissors. 738 Once a soba me that made me call
for help because they hurt a puppy at the ranch of a Basque, and
rose to go about guascas for Fox as it was. 739 "Ahijuna!"

I said from me, "I have this heavy damage, and you'll see, soon half
guen glimpse once you've removed the custom of CERDIE outside mares."
Because I killed a 740
vizcacha again rebuked me, is This came after me, and not so good
I had said: "Neither nuembres that bug me," he said, and I was
angry. 741 Seeing irritao found so prudent silence.

"This is going to punish me," I said between me , "if you wrong."

We saw that they had rabies, and not reappointed. 742 One afternoon
found a tip of mares bichocas half, after a few volts, the hard
CERDIE: vide I come to the owner, but my mouth quiet. 743 Man jurioso
came and we fell like lightning, the horse will pick revoliando the
arriador, and crossed a lazazo there no more to my tutor. 744 gift
vizcacha not wise to shoot what side until managed to assemble, and
fear of Chicote, I squeezed the neck up, without stopping to answer.
745 You might think that the old cure was ...

No, gentlemen, what we did, with more graphical cuidao then it was
Mania CERDIE day to night. 746 Thu Such was the man of my destiny
encargao always walked on the wrong track, and everyone said it
was a neighborhood perdulario, insufferable of Damage. 747 Where the
judge I appointed to dármelo tutor, told me he was a gentleman
that I had to look after, teach me to work and education. 748 But
he had to learn the pain of this old lao!

, Who lived as a chuncaco in the bath, as tero, a sluggard, a perp,
and more than a gaudy varraco. Also had 749 or more properties
to a property known carreta rotten and the walls without a roof ranch
half undone it served as a hideout. haggard after the 750 came to
rest there; desi aviriguar what I had hidden, but never had because
I did not let go. 751 I had some old slang, which had been more hairy,
and with my meat bare, the old, who was a beast, made me sleep ajuera
with frost raw. 752 Thu mozo When home, but I am suspicious, and
a friend of mine said that, arrebatao and bad, he killed his wife
a stick because he gave a mate cool. widower 753 and therefore never
re-married, it was not easy to find anything that you would like:
bring all afraid the fate of the first. 754 always dreamed with
her, no doubt for his crime and damn the old saying, the time you
were sick, she graphical the hell he was even calling loudly. 755
XV always walked retobao: none used to talk with were fun and scratch
marks on the finger, and as was put in started to advise me fart.
756 I think I see your poncho calamaco after dropping a wad guen
crave start to speak: "I never get to see dogs walking up skinny."
757 "The first man cuidao is to defend the skin.

Take my advice, look well to what I mean: the devil knows hell, but
man knows. "758" Hacéte friend of the judge not to give him complain,
and you want to get angry when you you must shrink, as have always
guen palenque go go scratch. "759" never takes the contrary, because
it sends the sheaf: it sit in your chair, no Guey gets angry, one
gets with the nail and another with cantramilla. "760" Man, even
the most arrogant, with more thorns than a logging aflueja in the
wrong foot and is soft as butter: to finance baguala cai jagüel
with the dry. "761" Not changing andes cave, which makes the mouse.

Conservat in the corner you started your essence: changing Querencia
cow is calving in late. "762 And that old menudiando drinks like hill,"
Do not forget, "she said, "Fierro, the man should not CRER in tears
of women nor the renguera dog." 763 "Do not even have to afflict
the world are plummeting.

What men have more accurate, as I run, is the memory of a donkey who
never forgets go eat. "764" Let the oven heat the mixture of the
owner, which is me, I never Todito I already afflict the deaf: the
live pig as fat, and eat up the children. "765 "The fox is running
away graphical sniffs do not rush I want to do whatever it take a
cow that is giving rumea best milk." 766 "Whoever wins is that
his food in silence guen coma; ansina , vos, no joke for We draw
attention, never cimarrón if the fire escapes by the hill. "767"
I'm going where I should and I never error; Take the example
of mine, and fill the belly: learning from the ants: no will noque
a vacuum. "768" A naides have envy: the envy is very sad, when you
see another win, not to hinder your goals in each piglet teat is
how to breastfeed. "769" ANSI feed lot while the poor pay, as is
the lamb who made the tip, do not deny, but others, like sheep,
they swallow everything whole. "770" If you're looking for quiet
living dedicate a single if you want to marry with alvertencia is
this: it is very difficult to keep that pledge Codicen other. "771"
is a bug that women here do not uncover me, always wants handsome
man, but look at the election, because he has the heart and stomach
of a toad. "772 And with nasal tranca, I used to say:" Foal, you
just point the cormillo, but you said a Toruno not let any man will
win the lao knife. "773" Weapons are necessary, but naides knows
when; ansina if andás PASI, and especially at night, so you must
take the exit, quit cutting. "774" Those who are poor can not save
while working and never for more than shortcuts, freed from Cimbrone:
Barrigona is born to the knot as fajen. "775" where the winds take
me there as I am in my heart, a sadness when I encounter a pa welcome
drink: I like to get wet and ajuera inside. " 776 "you're chicken,
you agree Todites these reasons, my advice and lessons Echesa not
never been forgotten: the fights I've learned not to puyones without
danger." 777 With these tips and others that I sit in my memory,
and we do not dig, educating continued, until at last fell asleep
mesturao among dogs.

Therefore
it is not unjust if the children of unbelievers are taken away from
their carnal parents, and consecrated to God by Baptism.

_On the contrary,_ It is written in the Decretals (Dist. xlv),
quoting the council of Toledo: "In regard to the Jews the holy synod
commands that henceforward none of them be forced to believe: for
such are not to be saved against their will, but willingly, that
their righteousness may be without flaw."

_I answer that,_ The children of unbelievers either have the use of
reason or they have not. If they have, then they already begin to
control their own actions, in things that are of Divine or natural
law. And therefore of their own accord, and against the will of their
parents, they can receive Baptism, just as they can contract
marriage. Consequently such can lawfully be advised and persuaded to
be baptized.

If, however, they have not yet the use of free-will, according to the
natural law they are under the care of their parents as long as they
cannot look after themselves. For which reason we say that even the
children of the ancients "were saved through the faith of their
parents." Wherefore it would be contrary to natural justice if such
children were baptized against their parents' will; just as it would
be if one having the use of reason were baptized against his will.
An object can not be given to its concept, but on intuition, pure
intuition and even a possible _A priori_ before the end, however
you may not receive your order and therefore its objective value,
but by empirical intuition which it is form. All the concepts and
principles with them all, though _A priori_, however, to relate
empirical intuition, ie data of experience possible.

_De Otherwise they have no objective value, are not more than a real
game and the imagination and the entendimiento_, with the respective
representatives of either of these powers. * * * * * "The same
thing occurs in the categories and principles on which they are
formed, which is manifested by the inability to define who we are
really one of them, ie we can not make intelligible the possibility
of its object, without adhering to the terms of the sensitivity
by Consequently the form of phenomena, the conditions which should
be restricted to these categories, as his _único_ object.

If this condition go away, disappear _todo also value sentido_ all,
that is, any relation to the object, and no example can be done
to devise what the proper object of these concepts. * * * * * "If
we do not take into account all conditions of that indicate the
sensitivity (speaking of the categories) and concepts of a possible
empirical use, if taken as the concepts of things in general and
therefore of transcendental use, nothing remains to be done on the
case, but save the logic function in trials, as the condition of
the possibility of things in themselves, without being able to show
in which case your application and its object, and therefore they
may have in the pure understanding, without the intervention of
sensitivity, a sense and an objective value. * * * * * "It follows
that what is incontestably, that the concepts of pure understanding
_jamás can not be used trascendental_ and use it only if empirical,
and that the principles of pure understanding do not refer to objects
of the senses, but when the senses are related to the general
conditions of a possible experience; _pero ever general_ things,
without regard to the manner in which we can perceive (transcendental
logic , lib. 2.

Ch. 3).. [66.] So all the science destroys Kant metaphysics, and in
this deplorable ruin the ideas involved are more fundamental, more
beautiful, more sacred, the human spirit. According to him, the
transcendental analysis shows that the understanding can not ever
pass the limits of sensitivity, we are only given the sensitive
objects in intuition.
The principles that were regarded as eternal scientific columns
of the building, forms are reduced to empty, meaningless words, as
they are removed from the area of sensitivity.

Ontology with its transcendental doctrines to explain the nature
and origin of things, nothing worth in the eyes of the German
philosopher These principles, he says, are just the beginning of
the exposition of phenomena, and the name of a _fastuoso intended
ontología_ give a synthetic _A priori_ knowledge of things in a
systematic doctrine, for example causalidad_ _The principle should
be replaced by the name of simple _analítica modest understanding
puro_. [67.] doctrine can hardly be found more damage: what subtracts
the human spirit if you take away the means to leave the sensitive
area?

What our understanding is reduced if their core ideas and its highest
principles, have no courage to teach something about the nature of
things?

If the world body is nothing more for us than a set of phenomena
sensitive and can know nothing beyond them, our knowledge there
is nothing real, all are purely subjective, the soul lives on
illusions and vain imaginary creations to nothing corresponds in
reality. Subjective space, a subjective time, empty the pure
ideas, everything is subjective in us we know nothing of objects,
what is absolutely ignorant, and we only know what we _aparece_.
This is pure skepticism certainly get that for him there was no
need to consume so much time in analytical research.

In the doctrine of Kant is not so shocking extravagance or error so
deformed as in the works of Fichte, Schelling and Hegel, but it is
the germ of the most extravagant and the most deadly mistakes. It
is he who has made a philosophical revolution, which has been the
unwary some progress, not seeing clearly the merits of skepticism
that it holds, and that is all the more dangerous the more is
involved with analytically. [68.]

But the importance I give to challenge the errors of the German
philosopher, I do not follow step by step, fighting their doctrines;
contesting this system has the serious disadvantage of leaving the
reader somewhat satisfied, because it looks to be ruined replace a
building with another. I feel more useful to examine the issues,
as they provide in the order of subjects, I set my opinion, support
the best way to reach: and then refute the errors of Kant, when
they are found the passage, blocking the path of truth.

Usually easy to tell what a thing is not, but it usually is not
much to say what it is, and agrees that the supporters of the doctrines
we are not good to make the charge that the contest did not take care
of others and explain the own. I think good philosophy these materials
may be submitted to sunlight struggling with an error that should not
be content with being a tool of war to topple his opponent,
but has to pretend to establish a solid and beautiful in same site
as that occupied.

The spirits are not satisfied with their own challenges: they want
a doctrine to replace the challenged whoever denies contests,
and the understanding is not happy with denials, assertions must have,
because you can not live without the truth positively.

Allow me this brief digression, I am far from having as unhelpful:
In view of the significance of the mistakes of the German philosopher,
he recalled the need that there are jobs held, dedicated, deep, to
oppose such a flood of errors that threaten a flood in the field of
truth, and I could not less than insist on this point, warning
that not enough challenge, but it is necessary to establish. Has
challenged in a good hour, but abundant doctrines positive in
the long line to display the error in their attacks, not enough to
cover the border with light and spirited bodies reject the enemy,
it is necessary to establish colonies, pockets of civilization and
culture, that while defending the country, you do thrive and flourish.
CHAPTER X. The intuition SENSITIVE. [69.] What is intuition?
The intuition itself, is the act of the soul which perceives an
object that affects: it indicates the significance of the Latin name,
which derives from the verb _intueri_, watching something that
is present. [70.] La intuition but it is perceptive powers, namely
those for which the person concerned a distinction between his
affection and the object that caused it. I do not mean that such a
distinction has to be reflective, but only that the internal act
is referring to an object.

If we assume a number of conditions being experienced, without referring
to any object, or thought about them, can not properly say that
intuition is real: this seems to involve the exercise of an
activity that deals with a subject present. The object of intuition
is not always to be external, may be one of the conditions or actions
of the soul objectified by an act of reflexion. [71.] The feelings
that are more properly called intuitive, are the eyes and tact,
since receiving the extension and it siéndonos impossible to consider
it as a purely subjective acts of seeing and touching necessarily
relates to a wrapped object.

The other senses, but in some way related to the extension, not
directly perceived, and therefore if they were alone, would have more
emotional than intuitive: namely that the soul would be affected by
these feelings, without the need for refer them to external
objects.

If reflection on these feelings by looking, you get to teach, as did
indeed teach that the cause of which is quite different from that
experience, there would not be true intuition, because it does not
exist either for the senses, which would remain outside á thoughtful
combinations, or the understanding, know the cause of the feelings,
not by intuition but by speech. [72.]

From this it follows that not every feeling is intuition, and that
the reproductions of sensations imaginary past imaginary or production
well, feelings are possible, but is often called intuition, not to
deserve the name of such property, because they do not refer to
an object. Yet here we must note that the phenomena of purely internal
sensitivity, perhaps should not refer to objects, the habit of
thinking, which perceived differences in time, more or less vividness
of the sensations, his link more or less constant, and other
circumstances, which distinguishes between representations that
currently refer to an object, such as external sensations, and that
you have just passed or possible, as purely internal representations.
So
that when we experience the sensitivity purely internal, is entirely
left to itself without the help of reflection, it moves to the
outside everything that is offered, making appearances in imaginary
realities.

This occurs in sleep and even during the vigil, where for any brain
disorder, the sensitivity work entirely alone, regardless of the
reflection. [73.]

The cause of the sensitivity gave himself, aiming all their
impressions, is that being a non-reflective power, can not distinguish
between the condition from the outside and purely domestic.

As a comparison, by little it is, involves a reflex, the
sensitivity does not compare: which is that when the subject simply
feel unable to assess the differences in sensations, measuring
their levels of resiliency, or not perceive the existence or lack
of order and constancy of its link.

The power of feeling is completely blind to anything that is not its
object, which is not in this, as an object of such power, does not
exist it anywhere, and therefore be seen that left to itself,
aiming his impression was always intuitively believe, becoming a
reality just appearance. [74.] It is noteworthy that the sensory
faculties, each would always be intuitive, that is, always refer
to an external object, if you do not accompany the reflection, while
others would not ever, if they were separated from the reflection,
or did not with any that are by their nature.

Are representative of the first class itself, ie, those affecting
the sensitive subject, submit a form, image or appearance of an object.
These are the sight and touch, they can not even conceive exist without
such representation.

By contrast, other sensations not offer the sensitive subject, any
form, are simple affections of the same subject, but from an external
cause: if it refers to objects by reflection, and when he warns us
that this will now be referred too distance, attributing to the
external object, not only the principle of causality but also the
feeling itself easily know the excitement and deprive us of it.

This is not evident in the feelings representative: someone to make
more efforts will be able to persuade themselves that it was
not something real, such responsive to the representation, in which
objects are offered as extensive. [75.] When I say some feelings
would not be intuitive if you do not accompany the reflection, I
do not want to imply that the man refers to an object, upon
reflection explicit, since I can not forget what else (V. lib.

II and III ) I have explained at length how instinctively that our
powers are evolving in its relationship with the corporeal world,
before any thought I would just mean that these feelings in themselves
and in isolation, is not a relationship necessary for an object
represented, and that probably, in the instinct that makes us
objective, if not a reflection confused mixture falls somewhere on
the influence of other sensations which are representative for
their own purpose.

CHAPTER XI. DOS KNOWLEDGE: INTUITIVE and speeches. [76.] explains the
sensitive intuition, come to the intellectual. There are two ways
of knowing: an intuitive, another discourse. The intuitive knowledge
is that in which the object is understood as it is, but the perceptive
faculty is to perform another role that is envisaged, for this is
called intuition, _intueri_ watch. [77.] This intuition can verified
in two ways: the object or put it to the perceptive faculty, joining
it with no intermediate, or with the intervention of an idea or
representation, act to bring the power of perception and this in
order to see that representation, without the need for combinations.

For the former, it is necessary that the object perceived is intelligible
by itself, otherwise there would not verify the union's goal is to
intelligent subject, for the second, enough to make a representation
of the object times, and therefore it is not essential that this be
immediately intelligible to intelligibility. [2] [78.] discursive
knowledge is where the understanding this is not the object itself,
and what shape you like, bringing in a total concepts partial link
in a subject which has been found by the intellect.

To make the difference between the sensitive intuitive knowledge and
the discursive explain with an example. I have in view a man: his
face was as it gives me, even without possibility of combinations that
I presented differently. I see its characteristic features such as:
the set is not something produced by my combinations, but a given
object to the power of perception, on which this has nothing to
do but collect.

When an object is offered in my opinion the same way, the
familiarity to be intuitive. I said that the object of intellectual
intuition can immediately join the faculty of perception, or submitted
for half the time to make the object.

Following the same example we can say that these two kinds of intuitions
are similar to those of the man seen by himself or by a portrait.
Both would have the intuition of the face, and would not be
necessary or even possible to form combinations. But suppose I spoke
to a person whom I have ever seen, and whose portrait I can not
be present. If I want to give idea of its appearance,
I will list their traits, whose idea of a reunion Formare face
that I just described.

This representation can be compared imaginary discursive knowledge,
which we do not see the object in itself, but what we built in some
way with the set of ideas that through discourse we have linked,
forming the concept of them representative of the total object. [79.]

Kant in his _Crítica the
reason pura_, spoke repeatedly of the intuitive knowledge and the
discursive, well that entirely without explaining clearly the
distinctive character of these two kinds of knowledge.

Is not created, however, that the discovery of two ways of perceiving
is due to the German philosopher, many centuries before they were
famous theologians, and could not be less so when the distinction
between intuition and the speech is intimately linked with one of
the fundamental dogmas of Christianity.

We know that our religion admits the possibility and reality of a
true knowledge of God, even in this life.

The sacred text tells us that we can know God by his works, which
the invisible God manifested to us by his creatures visible, the
heavens have their glory, and that makes the firmament announces
his hands, which are inexcusable they knew God in this way does not
glorify him as debian, but this religion teaches us that in another
life the blessed God know otherwise, face to face, seeing as it is.

Here thus making Christianity the difference between intuitive and
discursive knowledge, between knowledge by which God brings
understanding of the effects come to the cause, and bringing together
the ideas of wisdom, omnipotence, goodness of holiness, infinite
perfection, and the knowledge that the spirit will not need to walk
several concepts discursively collecting them to form the idea of
God as the infinite Being offered is clearly in the eyes of spirit
rather than a concept developed by reason, or in the sublime mysteries
offered by faith, but as it is in itself is an object immediately
to the power of perception, not an object found by the discursive,
and presented under venerable shadows.

Here we have another test the depth of light is hidden in the dogmas
of the Christian religion.

Therefore for the same reason neither are the other penalties taken
away by Baptism.

_I answer that,_ Baptism has the power to take away the penalties of
the present life yet it does not take them away during the present
life, but by its power they will be taken away from the just in the
resurrection when "this mortal hath put on immortality" (1 Cor.
15:54). And this is reasonable. First, because, by Baptism, man is
incorporated in Christ, and is made His member, as stated above (A.
3; Q. 68, A. 5). Consequently it is fitting that what takes place in
the Head should take place also in the member incorporated. Now, from
the very beginning of His conception Christ was "full of grace and
truth," yet He had a passible body, which through His Passion and
death was raised up to a life of glory. CHAPTER II. WHAT THE
UNIT. [6.] The scholastics have said is true that every one, and
everything is a being. The unit is a general attribute to all beings,
but not of the same. For that little thought, it is the eyes that unity
and being are not distinguished, the idea of unity in itself does
not offer us anything real or even possible, what would that not
be unity but that unity? This idea will be involved in, is an aspect
of it, a reason which is presented under the understanding to be.
[7.] But what is the concept of unity, under which we are being
offered?

We say that there is unity in the object, when there is no distinction
in the concept presented, and there is no distinction, when the
perception of relative _no ser_ is not combined with the object of
_ser_. Wherever you are simply an object of perception, there is
unity. I perceive the object B. In any event B, is one for me, if
you do not see compound c, d, of which one _no sea_ other. If the
object B perceive the distinction between c and d, the unit disappears.
It is clear that even if this known composition, can dispense with
it and consider just the result, all B, then the drive appears again.
[8.]

It is said that the unit is two ways, real and Factitial. The real
exists, when the thing was not only perceived the distinction, but
it does not exist, the Factitial is in the compounds, which
themselves contain different things, which can offer understanding,
as a subordinate to unit regardless of the order and containing
real distinction. [9.]

In schools sometimes defined _lo uno_, indivisum ens in se, et ab aliis
divisum: the first part seems to be very accurate provided by
_indivision_ not be _no separacion_ understand, but _indistincion_,
but at least consider the second redundant. If there is only one
simplicísimo be alone and do not cease to be one, and yet he could
not apply that is divided from the other: divisum ab aliis.

_other_ Absence, there would be no division of them. Then this member
of the definition is redundant. [10.] It will be one that is divided
from the other actual or potential, and that in the course of a single,
although there would be no real beings, would have potential, but This
does not undo the problem. Being alone, one would _realmente_,
and the division of the others would only _posible_: since the division
of two extremes can not be real if one of them is no longer possible,
then the division of others _divisio ab aliis_ is not a necessary
constituent of the unit, because this is already real, only when
the constituent is possible. [11.]

You can still make another observation confirming this doctrine. In
common usage, the unit is opposed to the distinction: in the absence
of distinction, there is unity. So there is no distinction, that
being just is not designed as a multiple, and this is achieved,
regardless of comparison with others. The words _otros, demás_
represent _unos_ beings, the idea of unity precedes the distinction:
men are not considered different from each other, but after they
were conceived as one, each by itself. [12.] I thus appears that
one is set to say _ens indivisum in se_, or a being that itself
has no division. As the indivisum will be unity. If indivisum
_indistincion_ means the unit will be real, but only if you mean
_no separacion_ or reunion, the unit will Factitial. Inextensible
molecules that represent
some compound the matter, would _unas_ really, because they would
have no distinction.

But some approach Baptism who have already grace and
virtues: thus we read (Acts 10:1, 2): "There was a certain man in
Cesarea, named Cornelius, a centurion of that which is called the
Italian band, a religious man and fearing God"; who, nevertheless,
was afterwards baptized by Peter. Therefore grace and virtues are not
bestowed by Baptism.

Obj. 3: Further, virtue is a habit: which is defined as a "quality
not easily removed, by which one may act easily and pleasurably." But
after Baptism man retains proneness to evil which removes virtue; and
experiences difficulty in doing good, in which the act of virtue
consists. Therefore man does not acquire grace and virtue in Baptism.

_On the contrary,_ The Apostle says (Titus 3:5, 6): "He saved us by
the laver of regeneration," i.e. by Baptism, "and renovation of the
Holy Ghost, Whom He hath poured forth upon us abundantly," i.e. "unto
the remission of sins and the fulness of virtues," as a gloss
expounds. Therefore the grace of the Holy Ghost and the fulness of
virtues are given in Baptism.

_I answer that,_ As Augustine says in the book on Infant Baptism (De
Pecc. Merit. et Remiss. i) "the effect of Baptism is that the
baptized are incorporated in Christ as His members." Now the fulness
of grace and virtues flows from Christ the Head to all His members,
according to John 1:16: "Of His fulness we all have received." Hence
it is clear that man receives grace and virtues in Baptism.

[35.] The geometrical ideas themselves, as distinguished from the
representations sensitive, are not simple because of the need
for lock and number relationships. Not a step without compare in
geometry, and this comparison is almost always involved the idea
of number.

Where is the geometrical ideas, seemingly so different from the purely
arithmetic, are identical with them, in form, or as regards its pure
ideal, and only differ from them as they relate to a material, which
is the extension, as provided in Representation sensitive. Then the
inferiority of the geometrical ideas that I have previously recorded
(31), relates only to its subject matter, or is sensitive to the
representations, as it presupposes is essential. [36.] Inferiré
another consequence of this remarkable doctrine, and unity of the
pure understanding, and sensitive separation of powers.
In fact, for the same reason that even in respect of sensitive items,
we use ideas that we can also serve other non-sensitive, with the
difference that it alone brings the diversity of the material
received, it appears that the powers above are sensitive another
superior, with an activity, with different elements of the
representations sensitive center where intellectuals gather all
perceptions, and where the intrinsic strength, although it was
excited by the impressions sensitive performs very well for themselves,
seizing those impressions and turning as it were in substance,
through assimilation mysterious. [37.]

And here I repeat what has already noted elsewhere, the ideological
meaning of the doctrine that enclosed _entendimiento agente_ of
Aristotelian , which has been ridiculed for not being understood.
But let us leave this and move on to discuss very carefully geometric
ideas to see if it will be possible to see any silver lining in this
dark deep surrounding
the nature and origin of our ideas.

CHAPTER VI.

WHAT IS THE IDEA IN GEOMETRIC; AND WHAT ARE THEIR RELATIONSHIPS WITH
SENSITIVE Intuition. [38.] In the previous chapters I have
distinguished between pure ideas and representations sensitive and
I have demonstrated that the difference is those to these, even
limited to the geometric sequence.

But this explanation is not the idea itself, has not said
what it is, but not what it is, and although I have indicated the
inability to explain simple ideas and content with the need to designate
them, I do not want to limit myself to this observation, which
seems rather that the difficulty is not that sidesteps that is
released. Only after proper investigations they may better understand
what they are trying _designar_ be permissible to limit the
nomination, because then they would see that the difficulty has been
circumvented.'s Start with geometrical ideas. [39.]

It is possible an idea geometric representation without significant,
concomitant or precedent? We think not. What does the idea of a
triangle if it is not about lines and angles that form a closed
space? And what do they mean, lines, angles, space, leaving the
sensitive intuition?

Line is a series of points, but this series does not represent
anything specific, capable of geometrical combinations, if not relate
to that sensible intuition is that the point appears as a generator
whose movement is called the continuity line.

What are the angles, not represented and those lines? What is the
area of the triangle, if it dispenses with a space, an area represented
and? Can be challenged all the ideologues to give meaning to the words
used in geometry, if it dispenses entirely sensible representation.
[40.] The geometrical ideas, such as we have, have a necessary
relationship to intuition sensitive: this is not, but always
presuppose.

To better define this relationship propongámonos saying that the
triangle is the figure enclosed by three straight lines. This definition
includes the following ideas: space, closed three lines. All four
are essential in removing any of them, the triangle disappears. Without
space there is no possible triangle, or figure of any kind. With a
space and three lines that do not close the shape, nor form a
triangle, then one can not omit the word closed. If you close a
figure more than three lines, the result is not a triangle, and if
taken less than three, you can not close the figure. Then the idea
of three, is necessary in the idea of the triangle. Toilet is to add
that the idea of online is no less necessary than the other, because
without it is inconceivable the triangle. Here it is noteworthy
that combine several different ideas, but all dealing with a
sensitive intuition, though in a way indefinitely. It dispenses with
the lines are long or short, forming angles of more or less large,
which can not be dispensed in any given intuition, because when
this has qualities themselves, otherwise no one would be given
representation, and therefore was not sensitive, as it is supposed,
but, although the reference is to an indeterminate intuition, is
always one, existing or potential, because otherwise you miss the
combination of understanding the art and the ideas we have four
found in the triangle, blank forms that would not mean anything,
and whose bizarre combinations outside, or rather absurd. [41.]

It seems that the idea of the triangle is just the intellectual
perception of the relationship between them have lines, presented
to intuition sensitive, but this is considered in its full
generality, without any decisive circumstance that neither limited
to particular species.

This explanation does not get a thing between representation and
sensitive intellectual act: this activity of the materials supplied
by the sensible intuition, perceive the relations of the same, and
in this pure perception, simplicísima, is the idea . [42.] It is
understood better what I just explained, if instead of taking for
example the triangle, we consider a figure of many sides, unable
to be presented clearly sensitive to intuition, as a one million
polygon sides.

The idea of this figure is as simple as the triangle with an
intellectual perceive, and we could speak with one word, calculate
its properties, its relations with the same accuracy and certainty
than the triangle, however, that We are absolutely
impossible to represent different in our imagination.

Reflecting on what this course is offered to act intellectual,
noticed the same elements as in the idea of a triangle, with the
difference that the number _tres_, has become a _millon_.

The number of lines can not representárnoslas significantly, but
the understanding to receive your order, you have enough line with
the idea in general, combined with the number one million.

We find the same elements as in the idea of the triangle, but these
materials are being put on the perceptual act, generally considered,
without more determination than it has the fixed number. [43.] The
idea of a estate in general, regardless of the number of its sides,
the spirit does not offer anything specific in representing
sensitive: the only thing this takes is the idea of a straight line
in the abstract and considered a confined space, looking at
everything in your greater generality.

With the intellectual act is perceived that the relationship between
these objects do have the intuition sensitive, even in the midst
of its indeterminacy. This idea is the perceptual act. Everything
else that makes it useless, and be useless, it's unsubstantiated
allegations. [44.] May be asked, how is it possible that the
understanding perceives what is beyond, in which case it is sensible
intuition , which is a function of power other than the understanding.

To eliminate this difficulty, dispense of the issues that are agitated
in the schools on the separation of powers of the soul, and I
will merely observe, that these are really distinct from one another,
and not more than one activity of about different objects in different
ways and always will have a common consciousness of all faculties.

The soul that feels, thinks, remembers, like, is it, and aware of all
these acts. Whatever it is the nature of the powers with which
the exercises, she is the one who performs and who know that the
exercises. There is therefore a sense in the soul single center where
common sense is the heart of any activity carried on, any affection
received, whatever the order to which they belong.

Now, suppose the case least favorable to my theory, which is the
power to which the sensible intuition, is really different from the
power exercised by the act of perceiving the relationships of the
objects offered by the sensible intuition, is it will then need the
understanding that something in order to operate on objects of that
intuition? not true. The pure act of understanding and intuition
of the sensitive, although different, are in a common field: the
awareness: there are contacted, an offer the materials and putting
the other perceptual activity.

CHAPTER VII. UNDERSTANDING AGENT OF ARISTOTELES. [45.] I will briefly
explain the theory of the scholastics on the way in which the
understanding knows material things. This explanation is really
how I found that this doctrine of the schools, can only be ridiculed
by those who do not understand, and that whatever it is its foundation,
can not be denied ideological importance. [46.] In schools were started
from the principle of Aristotle 'nihil est in intellectu quod non
prius fuerit in sensu, "there is nothing in the understanding
that before was not in effect. Under this principle is also used
to say that understanding, the soul before it receives the
impressions of the senses, is like a tabula rasa on which nothing
is written: 'sicut tabula rasa in qua nihil est script.

"According to this doctrine, all our knowledge derived from the
senses, and at first glance it might seem that the schools system
was identical or very similar to that of Condillac. Both sensation
seeking in the origin of our knowledge, in both states that prior
to the sensations, there is no idea in our understanding. However,
despite similar appearances, the two systems are very different,
diametrically opposed. [47.]

The fundamental principle of the theory of Condillac is that the feeling
is the only operation of the soul and that everything that exists in
our spirit is nothing more than feeling transformed in several ways.
Sensitive to the views above, the philosopher does not support any
faculty, developing the feeling is what fertilizes the soul, not
their exciting power, but begotten. The school of Aristotle took the
feelings as a starting point, but not considered as producers of
intelligence, on the contrary, establish very carefully and
understanding between the sensory faculties, recognizing that in
an activity, innate, much higher than all the powers of the sensory
order.

Just open any of the countless works of that school to find the words
to every step of intellectual strength, light of reason, participation
of the divine light, and others by the same style, which expressly
recognizes a primary activity of our spirit not supplied by the
sensations, but above all of them. Understanding agent _intellectus
agens_, who appeared at the ideological system, it was a condemnation
of the system to transform the feeling, held by Condillac. For the
better understanding of this point, some clarification is needed.
[48.]

Aristotle dominated by his favorite idea of explaining everything by
_materia_ and _forma_, changing the meaning of these words as it
required the subject to the applied field, also the powers of the soul
as a kind of powers unable to act, if they were not Unia a way
that put on an act. So explaining the feelings of species or forms,
which challenged the power-sensitive event.

The imagination is a power, although it rose slightly on the external
senses, it did not contain anything other than sensitive species
of the order, subject to conditions that need such power. These
species were placed in ways that act to the imaginative power, without
which she could not perform their duties. Explained in this way
the phenomena of external and sense of imagination, they wanted the
Aristotelian explanation of the intellectual order, as lucieron
ingenuity, an assistant who called excogitando understanding
agent. This
invention was motivated by the need to put two chords that seemed
to contradict each other.

On the one hand the settlers Aristotelian derive all our knowledge
of the senses, and another claimed that there is an intrinsic
difference, essentially, between feeling and understanding.

Run this line, to be a separation between the sensory and intellectual
order, and furthermore need to establish communication between
these two orders, if you wanted to save the principle that knowledge
came from the senses, it was necessary to throw a bridge that united
the two sides.

You could not deny the pure understanding, knowledge of the material
things, and as this knowledge was not innate, nor could be ordered
by itself, was necessary to establish communication through which
the understanding reach objects without contaminating its purity
with susceptible species. Contained the imagination, pure and
rudeness of the external sense: there were more carriers, more pure,
closer to the immateriality, but is still immensely the intellectual
order, and carried the weight of the material they do not consent
lifted to the height necessary to enable them to communicate with
the pure understanding.

This, to learn, ways needed to be closely unite, and if it is
true that foreign exchange in the distance beyond the lower regions
of the sensory powers, could not descend to them, without failing
in their dignity and deny their own nature . In this conflict it
was necessary to find a mediator, and this understanding was the agent.
What were the powers of this option? let us explain. [49.] The species
contained in the imagination, and true portrait of the world outside,
were not intelligible in themselves, because of walking involved,
not with matter itself, but with material forms, which can not
relate directly to the intellectual act.

If we could find a college that had the responsibility to make
intelligible what is not, would have been resolved satisfactorily
the difficult problem, because in that case, applying his work to
the species the mysterious transformer, these could serve to measure
intellectual rising from the category of imaginary species, _phantasmata_
to that of pure ideas or intelligible species.

This faculty is the understanding agent real magician who possesses
the amazing secret to dispossess species of their material conditions,
to take away all the rough that prevented contact with the pure
understanding, transforming the coarse of the fuel in pure ambrosia
sensory faculties that could serve at the table of the spirits. [50.]

The invention, rather than be called ridiculous poetry, and before
deserves the ingenious title of the bizarre. But what is more remarkable
is it that involves a deeply philosophical and ideological fact that
a slogan of the utmost importance, and also because it shows the
true way to explain the phenomena of intelligence in dealing with
the sensitive world.

The fact is the difference between recorded performances and sensitive
pure ideas, even with respect to material objects. Indication of the
true way of presenting the intellectual work on sensitive species
and turning them into food for the spirit.

Take off to the explanation of the poetic schools and see if it
is wrapped in it worth at least as what is said by Kant to combat
sensualism, distinguishing between intuitions sensitive,
understanding and pure. CHAPTER VIII. ARISTOTELES AND KANT. [51.] So
that I can not be accused of levity as I said, comparing schools
of philosophy with that of Kant, on the distinction between sensory
and intellectual faculties, I will quickly review the doctrine of
the philosopher in relation to this matter.

As the German philosopher was expressing so common quite dark, and
employs an unusual language, which could easily give different
interpretations, insert their own words: Thus the reader will judge
for itself, and rectify the mistakes that I may incur, when comparing
the doctrine of Kant with that of Aristotle. "Whatever the way, says
Kant, that knowledge may relate to objects, and whatever the medium,
thus making the knowledge immediately relates to things, and thinking
be regarded as half, is the _intuicion_.

This intuition does not exist, but as we are given an object, which
is not possible, at least for us men, but as the mind is affected
in some way.

The ability to receive representations on the way in which objects
affect us, is called _sensibilidad_.

Through the sensitivity we are given objects: it just provides us
intuitive, but understanding is the one who _concibe_, and here
come the concepts. Every thought must last result, that directly
or indirectly, by certain signs, á intuitions, and therefore the
sensitivity, since no object can be given us in another way. ""
The effect of an object on the faculty representative , as we are
affected by it, is called _sensacion_.

Any intuition that refers to an object through sensation, is called
_empírica_. The undetermined object of an empirical intuition is
called _fenómeno_. "(_Estética Transcendental, _ 1. ª parte). The
distinction between the power of feeling and to conceive, is
essential in the system of Kant, we see that the sets , but quickly,
before beginning his research on _Estética_, or the theory of
sensitivity.

Later, in dealing with the operations of the understanding, the doctrine
operates more broadly, and by the way it insists on it, it transpires
that the considered of high importance, and perhaps the discovery of
an entirely unknown region in the world philosophical. Here's how
it is expressed in its _Lógica trascendental_.

Consequently, here insincerity includes, in a way, every sin.
_______________________

TENTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 69, Art. 10]

Whether Baptism Produces Its Effect When the Insincerity Ceases?

Objection 1: It seems that Baptism does not produce its effect, when
the insincerity ceases. For a dead work, which is void of charity,
can never come to life. But he who approaches Baptism insincerely,
receives the sacrament without charity. Therefore it can never come
to life so as to bestow grace.

Obj. 2: Further, insincerity seems to be stronger than Baptism,
because it hinders its effect. But the stronger is not removed by the
weaker. Therefore the sin of insincerity cannot be taken away by
Baptism which has been hindered by insincerity. And thus Baptism will
not receive its full effect, which is the remission of all sins.

Obj. 3: Further, it may happen that a man approach Baptism
insincerely, and afterwards commit a number of sins. And yet these
sins will not be taken away by Baptism; because Baptism washes away
past, not future, sins. Such a Baptism, therefore, will never have
its effect, which is the remission of all sins.

_On the contrary,_ Augustine says (De Bapt. cont. Donat. i): "Then
does Baptism begin to have its salutary effect, when truthful
confession takes the place of that insincerity which hindered sins
from being washed away, so long as the heart persisted in malice and
sacrilege."

_I answer that,_ As stated above (Q. 66, A. 9), Baptism is a
spiritual regeneration. July 1865 a meeting of the Maingau, the
speaker of the General German Workers' Association and Welcker
Lauer from Frankfurt aM occurred as follows: The Labor said it in
the interest of the good cause of the workers stand in the
division of the labor movement for harmful and detrimental holds and
agrees to the members of the Workers' Education Associations
of Maingaus and from members of the General German Workers Association
existing meeting, all the steps to unify the hand to offer. keynote
speaker at that meeting was Professor Eckhardt, of his speech, the
topic of "State aid and self-help" basis had. A similar attempt
to reach agreement in mid-January 1866 was made in Leipzig, failed,
however, it was agreed to work together for the conquest of
universal, equal, direct and secret suffrage fight.

The main speakers in this meeting was Professor Wuttke. Requested
a re - Other People's Assembly in Dresden shortly afterwards, when
they convene again both parties' workers were involved, a constituent
parliament on the basis of universal suffrage and its protection
and support the introduction of the People's general armament.

The same claims raised in Berlin, a large People's Assembly under
Bandows chair. At Christmas 1865, following a call from a general
German Fritzsche Cigar Workers Congress convened to Leipzig, where
the formation of an association for the whole of Germany has been
decided. In the following spring appeared as an organ of the association
"The Ambassador", whose editor was Fritzsche. This was the first
zentralorganisierte union of Germany was founded. At the top
stood a three directors, whose chairman was Fritzsche. Local unions
existed at this time in significant numbers, both in Leipzig and
elsewhere.

It was also already in the summer of 1864 in Zwickau, a mountain Knapp
association whose members are on the Zwickau-Lugau-Stollberger Kohl
widespread area. It was the first modern German miners organization.
The founder and head of that was a miner named gemaßregelter
Dinter, whose aspirations of Motteler, W. Stolle and
me, and later also by Liebknecht, lively support.

At a National Assembly in July in Glauchau I had made the proposal,
the Ministry spite a Gauverband to establish and apply it to its
suppression and punishment of our arrival to.

For this proposal,
however, was not present mood.

So I moved my application. Instead, it was decided that an association
to promote and support the spiritual and material interests of workers
to form associations, which I was chairman.

Was further decided that each member per year, a penny would help.

The new connection were 29 clubs in With their 4600 members. This
association, the authorities no obstacle in the way.

When I am twenty years later as a member of the Saxon Landtag the
successor of the Lord v.

Beust, Lord v.

Nostitz Wall wit,
in the sharpest way because of the body moved shameless interpretation
that the Saxon association and assembly under the law he was against
us, and said that to his regiment, the regiment of the Lord v.

Beust, a Ausbund of liberalism had hastened Mr. v.

Beust, this phrase to justify his record in his memoirs.

He had to some extent a right to do so. What in Saxony after decades
of harassment and daring interpretations on the basis of the association
and assembly law was provided, exceeded all terms. Declared by the
Minister table but both Mr. Wall v. Nostitz joke as his successor, Mr.
v.

Metzsch repeatedly that social democracy should be measured with a
different extent as any other party. That was then, in lieu of law,
the arbitrariness of the officials. And they have excluded the
people of arbitrariness Possible done. In August 1865 Bismarck had the
newspaper for Koburger worker Prussia prohibited.

Among the persons who are his regiment also fell victim to, because
they opposed his policies and put the workers denounced their
true character, stood in first place Liebknecht. Wilhelm Liebknecht.
Liebknecht and also Bernhard Becker in July 1865 were expelled
from Prussia. Liebknecht was under thirteen years of exile in the
summer of 1862 returned to Berlin.

The amnesty of 1860 enabled him this. He followed the cries of
the old revolutionary August Brass, which he immediately Engels
in Switzerland learned, and, as already indicated, in the summer of
1862 in Berlin a large sheet of German democracy, the "Norddeutsche
Allgemeine Zeitung "had founded.

Robert Liebknecht was beside Schweichel to the editor have been obtained,
and Liebknecht for Foreign Policy. In the character of Brass sat neither
the slightest doubt, he had yet to include the most radical
revolutionaries. But at the end of September 1862 Bismarck took over
the Ministry, both discovered soon afterwards that something was not
right. The suspicion was confirmed when one day the chance
would have it Schweichel by a messenger a letter to the Ministry
for Brass in reception took its contents, as the messenger said,
should be published immediately. Both announced and came out of
the editorial board. As occasionally Liebknecht publicly stated
that he has Lassalle, a year after his resignation from the
"Norddeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung" that made an allegation that he
had abandoned his position.

Liebknecht, who was then his wife and two children had it from
London to Berlin had to be bought now with the maintenance of
correspondence for various newspapers.

When I met him, he wrote among others for the "Upper courier" in
Freiburg in Baden, for the democratic Rechbauersche "daily mail" in
Graz and the German weekly magazine "in Mannheim, but of which he is
hardly related fees. Later he wrote a few years for the "Frankfurter
Zeitung. Public lectures he gave in Berlin including letterpress
and Schneider in the club, but also in working-class and popular
assemblies, in which he fought the Bismarck's policy, as their
squires he JBV Schweitzer, the editor of the "social democrat",
installations.

After his expulsion, he traveled First to Hanover, where there Schweichel
on "Scoreboard" an editor was found. But since this is for him there
was nothing, he came to Leipzig, he
woselbst one day in early August, by Dr.

Eras, the then editor of the "People's Mitteldeutsche Zeitung" was
introduced to me.

Liebknecht, whose work and designation by the newspapers, I knew I
was interested of course, very lively.

He was then in the fortieth year of life, but had the fire and
the liveliness twentieth olds. Immediately after the welcome we
came into a political conversation in which he with a vehemence and
ruthlessness, the Progress Party, and especially their leaders
attacked and characterized, that I am who I was but no saints in
the same saw, was quite concerned. However, he was a first-class
man, and his rugged nature prevented not that we are soon befriended.
Liebknecht came to us as established in Saxony.

In July we had on the national conference in the consignment of
Glauchau Reisepredigern decided. But that was easier decided than
performed, because it lacked the right personalities, whose life and
such an activity permitted. Liebknecht was for this lecture tours
readily available. Also in the Workers Education Association, he
was a lecturer welcome, and soon his lectures were the most visited
of all.

Next, he took over in the Workers' Educational Association classes in
English and French language. So, he, however, begin to take a very
modest existence. Nevertheless, he was forced, what I learned later,
some good books to antique to bear. His situation became even
worse, that his (first) wife was sick chest and a strong needed
much care.

Externally Liebknecht saw his concerns not on who he saw and heard,
had to believe he was in satisfactory conditions. The first
agitation tour he undertook to lower Erzgebirge, especially in the
villages of the workers Mülsengrundes, which he is the way to
his candidacy later for the North German Reichstag paved.
Since I travel frequently agitation undertook, and we are starting
from there in all political matters often acted together, our names
have been increasingly mentioned in public, until finally we compared
these two lovebirds appeared.

That went so far that, as in the second half of the seventies, a party
comrade with me associerte, and business letters arrived at the
place of the address Ißleib & Bebel and Liebknecht the names
contributed Bebel, a process that always aroused our hilarity .

I have Liebknecht in these leaves even more to mention but
a description of his life, I can not give. If you are interested for
the same, the more in the book "The Leipzig high treason trial
against Liebknecht, Bebel and Hepner" and in the correspondence of
Kurt Eisner "Wilhelm Liebknecht." Both publications are available
in the bookshop next appeared. Liebknecht real fight nature was
accompanied by a steadfast optimism borne, without which no
great goal achieved. No matter how hard blow, whether he personally
met with the party or was it just a moment or discouraged from making
him upset. Nothing astonished him, he always knew a way out.

Against the attacks of the opponents was his solution: At a command
changes Schelm half. The opponents gruff and inconsiderate, he was
the friends and comrades from all the times a good comrade, the
existing antagonisms offset sought. In his private life Liebknecht
was a caring husband and father, with great love to his hanging.
Also, he was a great nature lover. A few nice trees in an
otherwise delightful free area could tempt him enthusiasmieren and the
area to find beautiful. In his needs, he was simple and undemanding.
A delicious soup that my young lady to him shortly after our
marriage, Spring 1866, one day vorsetzte, excited him so that he
let it be his life is not forgotten. A good glass of beer or
a good glass of wine and a good cigar, he loved, but more charges,
he is not.

Times, he had a new piece of clothing, which is not often happens,
and I was not immediately perceived and expressed my appreciation
to, so I could rest assured that, before many minutes were verflossen,
drew attention to me and asked my opinion. He was a man of iron with
a child's mind. When Liebknecht on 7 Died August 1900, it was the
day thirty-five years that we have our first acquaintance had
made. In his party activity Liebknecht loved it, ready to establish
the facts, if he believed that a plan he would find resistance.
In this capacity, I suffered initially difficult because I usually
got the soup auszuessen that he had eingebrockt. For his lack of
practical skills needed to implement other measures taken by him take
over.

But finally I found the courage to me from the influence of his apodictic
system to liberate, and now we sometimes hard upon each other, without
the public noticing it and without it that our relationship had been
permanently tarnished. It has been much written about the
influence the Liebknecht had on me, man, for example, claimed that
only his influence it was to thank that I was a socialist. In an in
Langen in Munich in the 1908 brochure will be published next told
me to have Liebknecht Marxists, when what I am in September 1868
on the Nuremberg Vereinstag have known.

Liebknecht would hereafter full three years to one from Saul
to Paul. Liebknecht was fourteen years older than I, he had then,
as we know, a long political experience before me ahead. Liebknecht
was a scientifically educated man, the industrious who had studied
this science education was missing me. Liebknecht was last in England
for twelve years with men like Marx and Engels in intimate traffic
confessed and had learned a great deal, a deal that I also was missing.
Liebknecht that under such circumstances a considerable influence
on me had to practice, was quite
self-evident.

Otherwise, it would be a disgrace for him, that he understood not
to exercise influence, or a disgrace to me that I made the deal
with him nothing to benefit from knowing .

One of my acquaintances from that time, wrote some years ago in the
"Leipziger Volkszeitung newspaper that he did (1865) belongs, as I
have in a small circle of my acquaintance told and Liebknecht would
have noticed this:" gosh, which one can learn what. " The vote is
expected.

But a socialist, I would be without him, since I was about in the
way when I met him. In the constant battle with the Lassalleanern,
I had to Lassalle scriptures read to know what they wanted, and
thus took place in the near future a transformation in me. The attitude
of the liberal leaders in and outside of Parliament had also
gradually aroused dissatisfaction with us, and her aura was dwindling.

Especially, it was the attitude of the liberal leaders in the workers'
questions, the Mißstimmung generated. My dealings with my Mauserung
Liebknecht has accelerated to the Socialists. This has merit. The
same is true with the assertion that Liebknecht had made me a Marxist.
I did in those years a lot of very good presentations and speeches
heard of him.

He talked about the English trade union associations, the English and
French revolutions, the German people's movements, political
agenda on issues, etc. He came to Marx and Lassalle to speak, then
always polemical, longer theoretical discussions, I heard my memory
is not of him. For private instruction, however, had neither he nor
I period, the daily struggles and what it could be connected to our
private theoretical discussions are not coming. Even after his
Liebknecht was full assessment far more generous politicians as
theorists.

The high politics was his favorite activity. I am much more, like
almost all the socialists had been on Lassalle to Marx came.

Objection 1: It seems that circumcision did not bestow sanctifying
grace. For the Apostle says (Gal. 2:21): "If justice be by the Law,
then Christ died in vain," i.e. without cause. But circumcision was
an obligation imposed by the Law, according to Gal. 5:3: "I
testify . . . to every man circumcising himself, that he is a debtor
to do the whole law." Therefore, if justice be by circumcision,
"Christ died in vain," i.e. without cause. But this cannot be
allowed. Therefore circumcision did not confer grace whereby the
sinner is made righteous.

Obj. 2: Further, before the institution of circumcision faith alone
sufficed for justification; hence Gregory says (Moral. iv): "Faith
alone did of old in behalf of infants that for which the water of
Baptism avails with us." But faith has lost nothing of its strength
through the commandment of circumcision. Therefore faith alone
justified little ones, and not circumcision.

Obj. 3: Further, we read (Joshua 5:5, 6) that "the people that were
born in the desert, during the forty years . . . were uncircumcised."
If, therefore, original sin was taken away by circumcision, it seems
that all who died in the desert, both little children and adults,
were lost. And the same argument avails in regard to those who died
before the eighth day, which was that of circumcision, which day
could not be anticipated, as stated above (A. 3, ad 3).

Obj. 4: Further, nothing but sin closes the entrance to the heavenly
kingdom. But before the Passion the entrance to the heavenly kingdom
was closed to the circumcised. Therefore men were not justified from
sin by circumcision.

Obj. 5: Further, original sin is not remitted without actual sin
being remitted also: because "it is wicked to hope for half
forgiveness from God," as Augustine says (De Vera et Falsa Poenit.
ix). But we read nowhere of circumcision as remitting actual sin.
Therefore neither did it remit original sin.

_On the contrary,_ Augustine says, writing to Valerius in answer to
Julian (De Nup. et Concup. ii): "From the time that circumcision was
instituted among God's people, as 'a seal of the justice of the
faith,' it availed little children unto sanctification by cleansing
them from the original and bygone sin; just as Baptism also from the
time of its institution began to avail unto the renewal of man."

_I answer that,_ All are agreed in saying that original sin was
remitted in circumcision. But some said that no grace was conferred,
and that the only effect was to remit sin. The Master holds this
opinion (Sent. iv, D, 1), and in a gloss on Rom. 4:11. To measure
time, we serve the movement and to measure the speed of movement, we
need time: there is perhaps a vicious cycle, but may also be an
indication that these ideas are correlated, which explains some by
the other, or rather, that there are different aspects of the same
idea.

The difficulty of separating these ideas, the intimate trabazon they
are found together on the one hand, when they are separated by
another, confirms this conjecture. Let the test. How much time has
passed? two hours. How do we know? by the clock, what if it was front
or rear? the measure does not help. Here we are on a fixed
time before the clock that you want to measure. But what are those
two hours, regardless of any action, not just watch, but also from
the stars? Two hours in the abstract, they are not found in any
category of being actual or potential, of which we can not give idea
or formárnosla ourselves without hitting a measure. The idea of
time is referred to a movement of certain bodies known, this in
turn relates to the other and finally got to one in which we did
not find any privilege to exempt from the law are subject to the
other.

So it is not possible another reference, just action, and lacking
this, the time we were away, by dint of being analyzed. [14.] Because
the time to refer to the movement, did not explain anything;
expresses something known ie, the reciprocal relationship between
time and movement, known relationship to the most ignorant, and which
is continually used in common practice, but the idea remains the same
philosophy, is always the same problem, what is time? go on investigating.
CHAPTER III. Similarities and differences between time and space.
[15.] The time seems to us something fixed: an hour is nothing more
nor less than an hour, the platform clocks, and same world as you
want, as well as a cubic foot of space is always a cubic foot, no
less, already occupying forces, no longer occupy. [16.]

If there is time, regardless of any movement of every estate, what is?
If one thing is certain absolute values themselves, which applies
to everything mutable, but it moves, measure everything now, but
it is measured, what is? Its immutability, its universality,
seem non-consensual nature of the accident. All live in it, but he
does not live on nothing, everything in it dies, but death is not
enough to it. The accident perishes, perished in the substance,
time remains the same, then the absence of the substance. Prior
to any created being, conceived centuries and centuries more, ie
time and subsequently to the destruction of everything raised, assuming
that all came to nothing, we still turn a duration, but
endless, ie time. The idea of time then do not need the idea of the
universe; preexiste her, she survives, but the universe is not conceivable
without the time. [17.] The idea of time seems to be independent
of the idea of all being; duration, all it may take, but
does not begin or end with what it takes, can be applied to all that
hard, but not anything that hard.

We envision an in multiple, uniform in various fixed as
mobile perish in eternal, and it appears to collect some of the
characters in the attributes of divinity, but as with the other
hand, is essentially stripped of all property, than that of succession
in its more abstract way, as does not involve any force, as is his
radically sterile, without any condition of being, or action, offers
great suspicion that it is a pure idea, an abstraction, as space,
we have formed in the presence of things. [18.]

The points of similarity between time and space are worthy of attention.
Both infinite, both motionless, both overall measure, both parties
essentially composed of continuous and inseparable. Treaty to limit
and can not; señalais a limit, but beyond that there is an ocean
feel. Your efforts are powerless, but after the last sky, there
is an abyss of endless space, beyond the principle of things, there
is an endless chain of centuries. Quereis move the space, but in
vain, what you do is move on he traveled the different parts. Points
are fixed with respect to it, you take distances and directions,
but they are not altered.

Want to move the time, and something similar will happen. The
moment now is not the moment before, or after the next. Are essentially
different. Necessarily be excluded. Its nature is to succeed. If
you move in the consideration of time is not the same. As quisiereis
struggle to imagine that tomorrow is today, today is yesterday;
lograréis what? is impossible. It has been for a while, can not
not have been.

If it were possible to move the time, would not have this problem,
because to achieve than it was yesterday, has not been enough to return
yesterday morning. This is absurd, what is past, the present, future,
things are fundamentally different. A simple space, a space without
parts, is not space, is a contradiction, a simple time, time without
a party, it is time, a contradiction. A space whose parts are not
continuous, there is no space, no time parts of which are continuous,
it is not time.

The parts of space are inseparable; the distinguiréis each other, the
contaréis one after the other, the compararéis with each other,
pondréis what quisiereis at each other, but not lograréis separate
them. In the cabinet where I write, there may be every body
imaginable, one or many, at rest or in motion, but I conceive
that space is a fixed, always the same, measure its volume, which
consists of many cubic feet, and these feet are fixed, inseparable;
if I endeavor to separate a cubic foot of another, I can not, because
while I emptied, I was introduced there in the distance I need to
design the separation.

If you do not see distance, do not conceive of separation, and if I
do not see space, I do not see distance. Bodies separated from
each other, but not a space for another to make the separation of
bodies, space remains the
same continuity, and measure the degree of separation for that
continuity that remains unchanged.

The same thing happens to us over time.

Is a string that can not be broken. Can I
conceive of three moments A, B, C, thereafter, immediately and
then delete B?

no. This removal or be impossible, or not consist only in a vain
game. Destroyed by the whim B are continuous A and C.

Well, not separate but on the B, disappearing in the east, the ends
are played.

But then A is not A but B, because B is just the moment that precedes
C.

We have no note that prior to distinguish, with respect to C and
its continuity with it.

Then when the A, imagined by the disappearance of B, is in contact
with C, A becomes B.
Besides the A, is not only related to B and C is preceded by
another: if it makes you take a step, for the disappearance of B,
it gives the same time all the infinite string preceding it.

Everything is then welded or more shall we, no welding possible,
because the infinite chain we have the finite, by taking a moment.

More clear: Can we conceive and yesterday morning, not today, future
and past with present?

Obviously not: time is therefore essentially composed of inseparable
parts. [19.] This similarity of space over time, naturally leads
us to believe that just as space is an abstract idea, it will
also be the time.

What we have said that this applies to, but with some modifications
arising from the nature of the thing. Be that as it may not be
useless in scientific research, and compare the approximate those
big ideas, which are like huge receptacle where we stored their
spirit flows.

On the idea of space, the universe is closed today and all the body
as possible, in time includes all finite beings, whether or not bodily.
[20.] It is suspected that these ideas, so intimately linked to
our perceptions, formed in the spirit the same way he is likely to
belong to the primitive order of the laws governing the development
of our intelligence. [21.]

The similarity between space and time, we should not ignore the
differences that distinguished. The most notable are the
following. 1. ª The space has all its parts co-existing without
this coexistence, it is even conceivable that the continuity is
essential.

The time consists of successive parts: imagine coexistence, is
to destroy the essence of time. 2. St Space refers only to the corporeal
world, and in one aspect: that of continuity. Time is now extends
to everything, whether corporeal or incorporeal. 3. This is th
idea that space is available only in the geometric order,
which serves as the base. The idea of mixing time at all, and especially
in our own actions. 4. ª Our soul when he reflects on itself, can
entirely space, forgetting about all the relationships it has
with large objects, but can not dispense time, which is by necessity
in his own operations.

This difference is very bright to understand what the idea of time.
I dare to recommend to the reader's attention and memory. CHAPTER IV.
DEFINITION OF TIME. [22.]

Time is duration, duration without something that lasts, is an absurd
idea. There is no time, not something that exists. Duration to
conceive after reducing everything to nothing, is a vain imagination,
not an idea, but is in contradiction with the ideas. This is an
important consequence, and is, that time can not define itself ,
with absolute disregard _alguna cosa_ to which it relates.

Then the time has no independent existence and can not be separated
from people without annihilate. [23.] This is also the infinity
that we attach to time, has no rational basis. To say that infinity,
we have no other reason, but the vague idea that we are the presents,
but we already see that this concept also exists, even if all reduced
to nothing: in this case if it is a futile game of imagination,
not an idea, but a contradiction of ideas, and we fools in one case
does not deserve credit for another. Endless centuries of time that
we conceived before the creation of the world, are nothing; imaginaries
are times, like imaginary space. [24.] The time has no
necessary relationship to the movement, because if nothing is
moved, even there were bodies, still designed in the time sequence
of operations of our soul.

This is essential; to design time, you need a series of things.

Assuming that nothing moves, nothing is altered, there is a being,
without external or internal change, with a single thought, always
the same, with one will, always the same, with no succession of
ideas or acts of any kind, nothing that applies conceived the idea
of time.

Time is a measure of his own: and what a being measured in this class?
succession? does not exist. Does the duration? Which measured the
duration, always the same, and that is just the same being? To
measure the length, it is necessary to provide parts and what parts
are these?

The time? Then there is a petition of principle because it applies
the time, while looking for whether it can be applied. When the
theologians have said that the existence of God is not half the time
in eternity that there was succession, which was gathered around
a point, said a profound truth.

Clarke, before ridiculing it, should try to understand (II). [25.]
The time begins with changing things, and if these end or destroy
them.

If there are no moving, no inheritance, and therefore there is no time.
[26.] What then is time? Is the succession of things seen
in the abstract. What is succession? It is being and non being.
There is one thing, ceases to exist; behold succession. Whenever
there is time, there is succession, provided that there is succession,
it is considered to be one and not be.

The perception of this relationship, this being and not being, is the
idea of time. [27.] It is impossible that there be no time and not
because this is succession. Whenever there is succession, there is
some change: moving and it is not something to be otherwise, and it
is not possible _otra_, without ceasing to be the last. Substance
modifications, or appearance, have no inheritance, and without this
being not be. What is motion? the sequence of positions of a body
with respect to several points. And there is this sequence? Taking
positions and losing others. What is the succession of thoughts
and affections of our spirit? Is not that some were, and being
with others which were not. [28.] The time, therefore, in things,
is the succession of them, their being and not as the time in
understanding, it is be entitled to the removal of this and not be.
CHAPTER V. THE TIME IS NOT NOTHING WHATSOEVER. [29.] The time is
absolute? no. The definition given in the previous chapter he
wishes clear.

Weather in things, not being alone or not alone, but _relacion_ of
being and not being. The time understanding is the perception of
this relationship. The measure of time is nothing more than the
comparison The biggest among them. To help us measure those early
moves that seem unalterably uniforms.

We have taken the solar movement. This movement is stellar compared to
the vario, no longer measure primitive when it comes to him: and I
have been founded when the scholastics have said that the measure
of time is the early movement of the first heaven. [30. ] What
would happen then if the sun, increasing their speed to make their
revolution in half the time?

¿The hours remain the same? Must be distinguished. If the alteration
is verified only in the solar motion, then the perceived inconsistency
with all other movements, and therefore found the alteration in
the sun, would continue talking things like fixed hours, other:
our movement, our watches, the other stars.

But if we assume that everything will change at the same time,
and in the same proportion, the whole sky, and all that is in the
earth, makes doubly accelerated their movement, but so that the
speed of our thoughts has not grown, then discover
a change that we will not know whether or give the world to us:
We found a discrepancy between the succession of our thoughts, and
the movements, but do not know if they have been accelerated, or
that our thinking is later.

If this speed we also communicated to us so that whether a series
of thoughts that were soon as many minutes, is made in half, then
find a perfect correspondence in everything, and it will be impossible
to perceive the move.

One hour for example, is not more to us than the perception of the
relationship of certain moves: when this relationship continues
the same, there will be no change in hours. [31.]

This will remove any notion of absolute time, it seems a absurd
to imagine, but not the reason. Here is a case that makes it
obvious. The man in charge ahead of time the succession, is unable to
distinguish whether the space of twelve hours, which has not seen any
clock, or other action taken by hand, it is eleven or twelve and a
half hours.
Yet they are not to be omitted save in a case of necessity. And then,
if the danger pass, they should be supplied, that uniformity in
Baptism may be observed. Nor are they supplied to no purpose after
Baptism: because, just as the effect of Baptism may be hindered
before it is received, so can it be hindered after it has been
received.

Reply Obj. 4: Of those things that are done after Baptism in respect
of the person baptized, something is done which is not a mere sign,
but produces an effect, for instance, the anointing on the top of the
head, the effect of which is the preservation of baptismal grace. And
there is something which has no effect, but is a mere sign, for
instance, the baptized are given a white garment to signify the
newness of life.
_______________________

FOURTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 71, Art. 4]

Whether It Belongs to a Priest to Catechize and Exorcize the Person
to Be Baptized?

Objection 1: It seems that it does not belong to a priest to
catechize and exorcize the person to be baptized. For it belongs to
the office of ministers to operate on the unclean, as Dionysius says
(Eccl. Hier. v). But catechumens who are instructed by catechism, and
"energumens" who are cleansed by exorcism, are counted among the
unclean, as Dionysius says in the same place. Therefore to catechize
and to exorcize do not belong to the office of the priests, but
rather to that of the ministers.

Obj. 2: Further, catechumens are instructed in the Faith by the Holy
Scripture which is read in the church by ministers: for just as the
Old Testament is recited by the Readers, so the New Testament is read
by the Deacons and Subdeacons. And thus it belongs to the ministers
to catechize. The specific numbers are not numbers, but when engaged
in this property. _Dos_, Which can be applied to a horse and a
horse, does not apply to a horse and a man, but it is, if not
thinking about the difference in sound is irrational, confusing the
idea of the animal.

The exact number needed a common name, otherwise it is not number.
[45.] The idea of two comes from the distinction, namely that an
object is not another way by which necessarily involves a claim
and a denial.

Affirmation of the existence, real or potential, or imagined, of the
objects counted, compared with a denial of the other. The statement,
without distinction, without denial, surrounds the identity. The
two ideas of identity and distinction within the two and any number.
Identity of each end to it; distinction between them does.

Identity in the thing is the thing itself, the identity on the
idea is the mere perception of the thing. The distinction in
the thing is the denial with respect to another, the distinction
in mind, is the perception of the denial. When we see an ever perceive
the same thing: and thus the idea of unity is contained in all
perception. When we perceive something, does not always respond
to their denial with respect to another and therefore do
not always perceive the number. The idea was born to do this
comparison, when we see an object that is not another. [46.] The idea
of the two entering the following: being a distinction, similarity.
Be because there is not nothing. Distinction, or denial of another
one is because it is not the same number. Similarity, because things
just are numbered, as it does their difference. Being is the basis of
perception. The distinction is the basis for comparison. The
similarity is the basis for the reunion.

Perception begins by the unit, followed by the distinction, and ends
with the likeness, which is a kind of unity. The perception of
this similarity does collect it differently.

The reunion is not always the case, just who is in the idea
that understanding. The poles of the world are two, not
collected.

The collection of number two is not enough simply to perceive the
objects, it is necessary to compare them and then assemble into a
common idea. Following this perception requires comparison and
abstraction, and behold, that animals are incapable of. They do not
compare or generalize. [47.] The analysis of the idea of two, is
the analysis of all the numbers, the difference is not in his nature,
but in the most and the least. It's in the repetition of the same
perceptions. [48.] Here is a question: is the number of things or
just in spirit? It's in things as in its substance, because
things are the distinction and similarity, that
is not the one on the other, and both have a common thing.

It's in the spirit, this being perceived not to be. [49.]

Perceived distinction and reunion
of two objects, we can still perceive an object, other than none,
and can be content with them on an idea general.

This is the perception or the idea of three. Imagine all the numbers
you want, and you will not find them otherwise, that simultaneous
perception of objects, distinguishing objects of similar objects.

When these are determined, the number is given, when understood in
the general idea being, thing, the numbers are abstract. [50.]

The limitation of our minds does not compare to many objects at a
time, or recall easy comparisons made.

To help the perception of these relations, and memory, we use the
signs.

In going from three or four, and failing to force a simultaneous
perception, then we divide the objects into groups that will help
new units, and these groups expressed by the signs.

In the decimal system is generally clear that the group is ten, but
before reaching him we have already made other subordinates, to
count to ten because we do not say one plus one plus one and so on.
etc., but one plus one, two.

Two plus one, three. Three plus one, four and so on. etc. As it is
seen that as you add a unit, formed a new group, which in turn
helps us to form another.

In two to three, with three of the four and so on.

This gives an idea of the relationship of the numbers with their
signs, but the importance of the matter requires further explanation,
which I will in subsequent chapters.

CHAPTER VI.

LINKING THE IDEAS OF NUMBERS WITH SIGNS. [51.] La linking of
ideas and impressions of a sign is one of the most curious phenomena
intellectuals, and at the same time, an auxiliary of the best of
our spirit.

Without this linkage, we could hardly think of something complex
objects: and above all, the memory would be extremely limited (V.
lib.

IV. Chap. XXVIII
and XXIX). [52.]

Condillac, who has made excellent comments on this matter, applies
in a special way at the numbers, noting that no signs could not
count but a very short, which he said would not happen three or four.

Indeed, suppose that we have no sign of that unity, we can easily
count the two, and a telling one.

Since no more than two ideas, it is easy to make sure we have a
repeated twice. But if we count to three, saying one to one and
one is no longer so easy to ensure the accuracy of the repetition, but
still it is not difficult.

It is therefore with some four, and it is nothing short of impossible
for example to reach ten. Become an effort to dispense with the
signs, and you will see that it is not possible to form an idea of the
repetition of ten with one, and it is not possible to ensure that
one has been repeated ten times, if not used any sign. [53.] Assuming
two invented the sign, and the difficulties diminish by half.

Thus the three will be much easier saying two and one, saying that
a one and one. The four in this case is not more difficult than in
the first two, as well as for two and a one said, to point out
the four, two and two.

Attention was to be divided into four times the repetition of
a single will be split in two. The six in the first course was a
very difficult to count, is now as easy as it was before the three,
then repeat two, two and two, will take six.

The care that was previously divided into six signs, is now divided
into only three. Clearly, if it continues to invent new names,
three, four, and others which express different collections, the
numbering will be providing up to the ease of use now, called
decimal. [54.]

Occurs here a question: do current system is the most perfect
possible? If the facility depends on the distribution of collections
of signs, is it the perfect distribution? Can speak of new signs to
designate new collections, or combination of them. There is nothing
to invent to make new collections, with our system because there
is no number we can not express. For the same collections, they
can invent new signs, these collections could be distributed
differently perhaps easier and more comfortable. The latter allows
the possibility of a breakthrough, although it seems difficult at
first not. In a word, progress may be better to express, not to
express more. [55.] The symbol links a lot of ideas that have no
link with it: hence its need in many cases here in all its
usefulness. With the word cent, or your 100 number, I know very
well that I am a repeat, a, a, up percent. If I need this help,
I would not talk about the hundred or calculating about it, not
even train. Because while it is observed not get to their training but
to ten, and repeating the collection ten, ten times. [56 .] But
this is not created by the idea of the numbers is the idea of the
sign because it is clear that the very idea of ten for the ten
spoken word, the written and the figure 10 that three signs
are very different. Each language has its own word to express the
ten, and the idea is the same in all people. [57.]

This last point a particular difficulty arises, what is the idea of
ten? We can not say that it is the memory of a repetition of one to
ten times: 1. º, because it did not think I remember, when we think
of the ten. 2. º Because so that (52) it is impossible for us a clear
recollection of this repetition. Nor is the idea of the sign,
because when the word was invented, there was meaning and idea,
otherwise the invention had no purpose, and even impossible. There is
no sign when there's nothing mean. The idea of the number contains
more difficult to believe what Condillac, who, after having discussed
with sagacity which facilitates the numbering, he meditated deeply
on the same idea, there would not be reprimanded as San Agustin
easily, á Malebranche, and the whole Platonic school, for having
said that the numbers collected by the pure understanding, they
were far superior to anything perceived by the senses.

CHAPTER VII. ANALYSIS OF THE IDEA OF THE NUMBER ITSELF AND ITS RELATIONS
WITH THE SIGNS. [58.] To conceive a clear idea what the number, and
how it generates in our mind, to teach a deaf mute. The idea of unity,
we can not give better than a target. Let's see now how we will
give you the two. Mostrémosle two fingers, then two oranges, two
books later, and in each of these operations, make a sign anyone,
but always the same.

Repeat this many times, the deaf mute the idea of joining the two to
sign, and with it an exciting addition. To indicate you have seen any
two objects, will try to accompany the words of the object with
the sign of two.

The same applies to the three and four. To reach higher numbers, and
the sign becomes more essential, and the idea of the numbers is not
so easily, and therefore you will still need the link. What
will we do to account for the numbers to the deaf mute, which
makes it suitable for designs that express the number, do this all
for ourselves dárnosla. [59.]

Numbering is a repetition of operations, and the art stop signal is
supplied to us remember what we did. It is a very complicated maze,
we can safely touring again, as if developed, have the care of the
way. The admirable simplicity of the decimal system, coupled with its
endless variety, is the cause of the ease and fertility our
arithmetic. Algebra that has taken a step further, expressing the
numbers without specifying them, and presents the results of operations
without erasing the trace of the road where they had come to them, is
much higher than the arithmetic, and
has made great strides to steps the human spirit.

With what means? Only aiding memory.

So that the same principle that guides the child to say a four and
five, instead of a one and so on. etc., the same as guide to the
world to express the five per one hand, the per cent grain, by a
knot etc. etc., guia algebra to express a formula easy to retain
in memory, the result of lengthy operations.

Both reach their goal, with only the auxiliary memory. To the world,
one grain of corn expressing the idea of the cent, which then
apply to all such collections, some letters to the mathematical
combination of a simple, expressed a certain amount of property,
then apply to all who are in the same case. [60.] La numbering not
more than a set of formulas, the easier they are to transform each
other with a slight modification, so the numbering will be more
perfect. The better known the relationship of these formulas, and how
to transform, much more to know. The more intellectual force there
to direct the attention of many simultaneous equations, comparing
them, there are more sophisticated arithmetic, because the simultaneous
comparison of many new relationships you receive. [61.]

What is for me the idea of one hundred? It is the reunion of the
units that compose it, I did a reunion or more times, when I taught
to count. And how is it? Because I got a formula, called the cent, and
I expressed an 100 number, and as this formula is very easy to remember,
I remember the idea of easily cent and all properties that have
been linked with it, although it has been only once.

I wonder if that ninety percent is higher if one were to count, plus
one plus one, lose the account, and never come to distinguish
what is more, but I know that to get to the formula percent, by
another pass before formula, nineties, and that it was growing, I
know very well once for all, which is ninety-percent express something
that is, the percent is greater than the nineties.

If you ask me how much is the excess, nor seek for one, plus one other.
etc. but by the relationship of the two formulas and ninety-ten,
which I composed with the formula cent. [62.] In the general meeting
on a similar idea a lot. The overall idea is a kind of formula.
Numbering in the meeting at a sign, many things, agree that a
general idea, but this sign is to distinguish his own time.

So the general idea should be to all individuals as a predicate: the
number, should not in any particular, but all together. In the
abstract sense a common property, while overlooking the individuals
that we have provided in the numbering, see the resemblance, but
always with distinction.

In the abstraction is the result of the comparison, but not the. In
comparison the numbering is perennial, or remember it. [63.] The
idea of the number is not conventional, the hundred percent is
always with all their properties and relationships, before any
convention, and even the entire human perception . What you
need is the conventional sign, nothing else. If there is no
intellectual creature, there were one hundred beings different
from one another, there would be in reality the number. In the
August mystery of the Trinity is the number three, from all eternity,
by an absolute necessity. For many, simply the existence of different
things, thus they are more different from each other, have
something common, which may be contained in a general sense, the
being, and therefore meet the two conditions necessary to form number.
[64 .]
But, though the baptismal water
receives a kind of blessing before being used for Baptism; yet this
is not essential to the sacrament: since in a case of necessity it
can be dispensed with. Therefore neither is it essential to this
sacrament that the chrism should be previously consecrated by a
bishop.

Obj. 2: Further, the same should not be consecrated twice. But the
sacramental matter is sanctified, in the very conferring of the
sacrament, by the form of words wherein the sacrament is bestowed;
hence Augustine says (Tract. lxxx in Joan.): "The word is added to
the element, and this becomes a sacrament." Therefore the chrism
should not be consecrated before this sacrament is given.

Obj. 3: Further, every consecration employed in the sacraments is
ordained to the bestowal of grace. But the sensible matter composed
of oil and balm is not receptive of grace. not true: what goes in the
other, is what happens in us when they are going, we are experiencing
the same thing when we want or not, the awareness of our will, is
the portrait of all other existing or possible.

Conceive of a more or less perfect, which brings a greater or lesser
degree in the current or potential perfections of ours, and will
propose a design of infinite perfection, bringing to an infinite
degree perfection today or may be found in the finite. [143.]
When the sacred text tells us that man is raised in the image
and likeness of God, teaches us a very bright indeed, not
only under the supernatural aspect, but also under purely
philosophical.

Our soul, in That image of the infinite intelligence, are not
only a wealth of general ideas to overcome the limitations of the
sensitivity but also an admirable representation, which we like a
mirror, what happens at the infinite deep, that while we in this life
we can not know with intuition immediately. This representation
is imperfect, it is puzzling, but it is a true representation: their
small size and infinitely enlarged, we can contemplate the infinite,
and its feeble glow, we glow reflects the infinite. The spark that
jumps mild Flint's imagination can lead to the ocean of fire that
astronomers discovered in the star of the day. CHAPTER XXIII.
NEED IDEAS entrants. [144.] There are ideas, even the facts concerning
contributors, which is necessary, which is the science and therefore
can not arise from experience alone, multiplied by the suppose.
Which proves the induction was limited to a certain number of facts,
numbers that, even accepting as grown up as can give the experience
of all men of all centuries, Infinitely distaria of universality,
which extends as much as possible. In addition , narrowly to reflect
on the certainty of the truths intimately linked with the
experience, which are the arithmetic and geometric certainly miss
seeing that the safety with which they handle it does not rely on
induction, but whatever any particular fact, we give consent,
considering its truth as absolutely necessary, even if we could not
check it ever with the touchstone of experience. [145.] verification
of the ideas for the events is impossible in many cases, therefore,
that the weakness of our perception and our senses, and rude to use
the tools that we make sure to prevent any accuracy of the
correspondence of facts with ideas.

At times, impossible to do this test is absolute, because the
true geometric means in practical terms we can not do. [146.]'s Apply
these observations to the most simple truths of geometry. I certainly
would not call into question the solidity of proof is called
superposition, ie that if two lines or surfaces, putting one over the
other, just confused, are equal. This truth can not depend on experience.
1. º Because experience is limited to certain cases and the
proposition is general.

Saying that one is for all, ie that there is a general principle
independent of experience, because not otherwise could infer
the universal from the particular, but by recognizing a need
inherent in that truth. 2. º Because even if that experience would
assert, it is impossible
to make accurate, since the overlap made the most delicate imaginable
can not ever reach the geometric accuracy, which does not consent
to have the smallest difference at any point.

It is an elementary theorem on the three angles of a triangle equals
two straight.

This truth can not depend on experience. 1. º Because of the particular
can not deduce the universal. 2. º For all the delicacy of the
instruments for measuring angles do not reach the geometric accuracy.
3. º Because geometry conditions assumed infeasible for us in
practice: lines without bulk, and the vertices of the angles,
indivisible points. [147.]

If the general principles depending on the experience, it would be,
would be limited to a number of cases. The statement could not
be absolute, even for the cases observed, because it would be necessary
to stick to what was observed, ie a more or less ever come to perfect
accuracy. Thus, there could be argued that in any triangle the three
angles is equivalent to two straight, it should be said in all the
triangles on which you could make the experience has been observed
that the three angles are worth two straight, a short gap.

Clear is that this will destroy all the truths necessary and that
the same math, it would be more certain that the relations of the
practice of a profession that we have what we have observed in the
respective objects. [148.] Not necessary truths there is no science,
and even the knowledge of contingent truths would be extremely
difficult.

How we collect the facts you provide observation, how we coordinate?
Is not applying certain truths, those of the numbering for example?
If neither of these even because we had complete security,
or the results of the observation could have it. [149.] Human reason
is destroyed if it takes the fund necessary truths that constitute
their common heritage. The reason no individual may give only very
short steps, since they would be overwhelmed with the continuous
observation of balumba; inattentive unceasingly for the checks to
always have recourse, lack of which serves a light for all objects;
closed forever and collect the rays of science in a common center,
which allows you to simplify.

Dejaria The general reasons also exist, men do not understand,
everyone would have their experience, and as in all of them there
would be nothing necessary, nothing that linked together, all the
comments of all men, would have no unity, would be a field of science
where the confusion reign of order out of the impossible.

The languages would not have been formed, and even if formed would not
have been able to keep. In all of them, not only in the
complication of a long speech but also the most simple statements,
is the expression of a general background of truths, necessary, serving
as liaison for the frame of the contributors. [150. ] Prompt as
necessary if there are truths, there is reason to ask whether
individual if there are general reasons, whether we call it right,
and we found in all men, there really is a dream or of fantasy.
That reason exists, is refusing to deny ourselves, not wanting to
recognize it, is to reject the testimony of consciousness that
assures us of this at the bottom of our soul is powerless to make
efforts to destroy an irresistible conviction imposed by nature.
[151 .] And here observe in passing that the community of reason among
all men of all countries of all centuries, the admirable unity, which
is in the midst of so much variety, that fundamental agreement that
do not destroy the diversity and contradiction of opinions, is
clear evidence that human souls have a common origin, that thinking
is not the work of it: that the higher the human intellect is no
other intelligence that supports that illuminates, from suitably
first moment of its existence, the powers they need to collect and
verify what they see.

The admirable order which reigns in the material world, the concert,
the unity of plan, which was discovered in it, are no more conclusive
proof of the existence of God, that the order, the concert, the
unit which gives us the reason its assent to the truths
necessary. I confess candidly that I can not find more solid evidence,
but conclusive, but bright, the existence of God, which is deducted
from the world of intelligence. She has an advantage over
the other, and that is its point of departure is the most immediate
to us, the conscience of our deeds. It is true that the most
accommodating capacity of common men, which is based on the admirable
order which reigns in the corporeal universe, but because it had
not been accustomed to meditate on the objects insensitive about
what they experience themselves within it, and therefore many
more direct knowledge of that force reflection. Question the
atheist which means we have to make sure the existence of God, and
that requires an appearance of God to believe in it, well That
appearance there, and not outside us but within us: and if it is
not forgivable to see little thoughtful men, which is not fail to
be discovered by those who pride themselves understood in
metaphysical sciences.

The system of Malebranche, that the man he sees everything in God, is
unsustainable, but reveals a very deep thinker. CHAPTER
XXIV.

Existence of universal reason. [152.] The truth generally has some
relation to the particular: for if the general truth is not a vain
hope, it needs to be linked to an existing object or possible.
Everything that exists is particular: the if possible even
be conceived, if you are not particularizes so to speak, in the
regions of possibility. God himself, being in essence, is not an
abstract being, is an infinite reality. It is particularised, as
it were, the general idea of the fullness of being, of all perfection,
of infinity. The truths it would be vain illusions, if not refer
to something particular, existing or potential. Without understanding
this relationship would be a purely subjective phenomenon, the
science does not apply, be known, but would not have known anything.

The appearance of knowledge, we have always, not as a purely subjective,
ie when we know we know something in us or outside us, as the
subjects we deal with, because the assumption that the phenomenon
of knowledge is purely subjective, and that becomes a target
himself, we will continuously lead to error, to suffer the reason
of a human error that will force radical look at these phenomena
as ways of perceiving the truth, when it will be perennial sources
of deception. [153.]

In this correspondence from the general to the particular truth can
doubt where is the beginning; that is, if the general truth is truth,
truth by individuals, or whether these are for the general. "All
the diameters of a circle are equal." This is a general truth.
I suppose if a circle exists, all diameters are equal. We have already
seen that certain general truth
can not come to us or come from particular truth but the truth
does not change in particular need of the general, since it seems
that while overlooking any intelligence that could receive this
general truth, the existing circle will have its diameter. [154.]

Moreover, the truth may not be generally fail if only one particular
and might be true, but fail overall.

The equality of the diameters existing circle, is thus a necessary
condition for the general truth, and this does not seem necessary
for the equality of the diameters.

It is true in general that all diameters are equal, because it
occurs in all existing and potential, and the truth is usually not
more than the expression of such verification, but does not
appear that the diameters in a particular case, are equal because what
is the general truth. It is true that any individual is greater
than his, even when considered in itself, and regardless of any general
truth, but not be true in general, that everything was bigger than
his hand, if only any one particular axiom fails. [155.] inferred
from these observations it seems that the truth of principles depends
on the facts and not another.

However, further reflection on the matter, it is discovered that the
root of truth is not on the particular facts, but otherwise superior
to them. 1. In a sixth particular we can not infer the universal
truth, and truth We can infer the universal truth of all the
particular facts existing and potential. The reason for the
legitimacy of the result is the necessary link in the predicate
with the subject: and this need can not be found on the particular
facts of his troops. 2. º The reason for this need not be found in
the simple proposition that the states, because the fundamental
thing, just expressed.

The statement is true, because it expresses the truth, and the existence
of truth does not depend on the wording. 3. º Nor can depend
on our ideas. These are not productive of things, all imaginable
perceptions do not change one iota in reality. The idea to express
the thing, not the hare.

The relationship of ideas among themselves, something worth while in
terms expresses the relationship of objects: if for a moment to doubt
llegásemos this correspondence, our reason would be reduced to a
complete powerlessness, a vain illusion to which we should not no
case to make.

The properties of the triangle are contained in the idea I have
of him, but if this idea is purely subjective, if you do not have
any exact or approximate relationship with any object, real or
possible, this idea and build on it soon, would mere phenomena of
my spirit, that would mean absolutely nothing, no more value than
a delirious dreams. 4. º The necessary truths of reason can not find
any way of our intelligence in particular: perceived each other without
thinking, even in itself. Our individual does not exist recently,
and there was truth, when we've gone, the truth will continue it,
without losing anything. 5. º There are certain truths that all
men need not have agreed to receive, neither able to agree, then all
individual intelligences drink at some common source, then there is
the universal reason. CHAPTER XXV. what the universal reason. [156.]
What is the universal reason? If we consider as a simple idea, as
an abstraction of individual reasons, as something separate from them,
there is nothing real, we are in the same pitfall that we avoided.
We wanted to bring the cause of the unity of human reason and
universal appeal to reason, and then to explain the universal
reason, we resorted to an abstraction of individual reasons.
For just as the effect of Confirmation, which is
spiritual strength, presupposes the effect of Baptism, which is
justification, so the sacrament of Confirmation presupposes the
sacrament of Baptism.
_______________________

SEVENTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 72, Art. 7]

Whether Sanctifying Grace Is Bestowed in This Sacrament?

Objection 1: It seems that sanctifying grace is not bestowed in this
sacrament. For sanctifying grace is ordained against sin. But this
sacrament, as stated above (A. 6) is given only to the baptized, who
are cleansed from sin. Therefore sanctifying grace is not bestowed in
this sacrament.

Obj. 2: Further, sinners especially need sanctifying grace, by which
alone can they be justified. If, therefore, sanctifying grace is
bestowed in this sacrament, it seems that it should be given to those
who are in sin. And yet this is not true.

Obj. 3: Further, there can only be one species of sanctifying grace,
since it is ordained to one effect. But two forms of the same species
cannot be in the same subject. Since, therefore, man receives
sanctifying grace in Baptism, it seems that sanctifying grace is not
bestowed in Confirmation, which is given to none but the baptized.

_On the contrary,_ Pope Melchiades says (Ep. ad Episc. Hispan.): "The
Holy Ghost bestows at the font the fulness of innocence; but in
Confirmation He confers an increase of grace."

_I answer that,_ In this sacrament, as stated above (AA. 1, 4), the
Holy Ghost is given to the baptized for strength: just as He was
given to the apostles on the day of Pentecost, as we read in Acts 2;
and just as He was given to the baptized by the imposition of the
apostles' hands, as related in Acts 8:17. Now it has been proved in
the First Part (Q. 43, A. 3) that the Holy Ghost is not sent or given
except with sanctifying grace. Consequently it is evident that
sanctifying grace is bestowed in this sacrament.

Reply Obj. 1: Sanctifying grace does indeed take away sin; but it has
other effects also, because it suffices to carry man through every
step as far as eternal life. Hence to Paul was it said (2 Cor. 12:9):
"My grace is sufficient for thee": and he says of himself (1 Cor.
15:10): "By the grace of God I am what I am." Therefore sanctifying
grace is given not only for the remission of sin, but also for growth
and stability in righteousness. The _razon impersonal_ that some
philosophers speak a word without meaning.

Or there is a reason other than our own, or not: if there is not
impersonal: if no, can not explain the reasons of the human
community, this community is a phenomenon for us, we can reason named
impersonal, or how to improve we see fit, without being pointed to any
home is feasible it will be an effect without a cause, without a
sufficient reason. [159.] Intelligence is spread across a world
of things, and there discovers a set of necessary relations: each
dependence, other contradiction: if there is a reality that
merges the opportunity, this is absurd: there is nothing possible but
what exists. In anything you can not found anything, and therefore
no possibility. The set of relationships needed to discover potential
human beings, must have a primitive type, to which they relate:
There is nothing in the rates. [160.] The collection of human understanding
can not be found the possibility. Considered in isolation any one of
them is not necessary for the general truth: and all together they
can have what there is in neither.

The truth needed to conceive an absolute abstraction of human
understanding, including his own, individual understandings come and
go, nothing will change in the relations of human beings possible:
on the contrary to that understanding to carry out its functions has
required a set of existing facts, and without them nothing can
think. What is necessary for each of the individual understandings,
it is for everyone. The reunion of them, does not increase the
strength of each, because
this reunion is nothing but a collection that is in our mind,
without which he is in reality nothing but the individual agreements
with their respective forces. [161. ] preexisten necessary because
the truths to human reason: and this existence is a meaningless
word when it refers not to be, the source of all reality and
foundation of every possibility.

There is no reason itself impersonal: there is community of reason,
as to all the finite understandings illuminates light same God who
has brought up.

CHAPTER XXVI.

CLARIFICATIONS ON THE BASIS OF THE REAL POSSIBILITY PURA. [162.] As
with the argument that proves the need for the existence of a being,
that is the foundation of all possible relations of order, is one of
the most momentous in the region of metaphysics, and at the same
time one of the more difficult to be understood perfectly, sees
fit to extend somewhat the considerations made in the previous
chapter.

A case that tested the ability to build things, whether that be
a reason for being around, you better for the object, which
abstract thoughts. [163.] "Two circles of equal diameters are
equal."

This proposition is obviously true. Consider what it means. The
proposition refers to the order as possible, does the existence
of absolute diameters and circles. No case is excepted: all
come under the Proposition.

Since then jumps to the eye than the truth of the proposition
is not based on our experience, this should be limited to what we
experienced, the number of cases must be very reduced, and how big
it supusiéramos, distaria much of what has been needed to match the
universality of the proposition. [164.] Nor does the truth concerning
our way of understanding, prior to the contrary, we see it as
independent our thinking. If we were asked what would be the truth
if we do not exist, we will respond without hesitation that the truth
would be the same, that does not buy anything with our lives, not
lose anything with our disappearance.

If you believe that this really depends on how any of us cease to
be what it is not really a necessary but contingent. [165.] The
world body is also essential for the truth and necessity of the
proposition, on the contrary If we assume that there is no body, no
proposicion will have lost nothing of its truth, necessity and
universality. [166.]

What if all the bodies disappear, all the sensitive performances, and
to all of the understandings, think nothing absolute and universal?
Even in this case, we see that the proposition is true; siéndonos
impossible to have it wrong. In all cases, our understanding is a link
that can not destroy: the condition is established infallibly follows
the result. [167.] A link is absolutely necessary, that is not
based on us or in the external world; preexiste a link to what we
can imagine, and that remains even after you have wiped out everything
with an understanding of our effort was founded on something, not
origin may have nothing: to say this, would say that there
is a need without sufficient reason. [168.] It is true that the
proposition before us, does not declare anything real, but if we
reflect, is in This same greater difficulty against which denies
the pure possibility, a real foundation.

Exactly what this phenomenon is unique in that our intelligence feels
obliged to give its assent to a proposition, which affirms a link
without an absolute necessity linked to any existing object. It
is conceived that an intelligence affected by other people, know
the nature and relations of the same, but there is no how you can
discover the nature and relations of an absolutely necessary when
it dispenses the entire existence, the fund when they fix the eyes
of understanding is the abyss of nothingness. [169.] ilusion We
believe that we can dispense with all existence.

Even if we assume that our spirit has disappeared altogether, very
easy to guess, because our consciousness is the contingency of
our being, understanding an order may still perceive, think and
deal with the pure, whatever is it that melts. I repeat that
this is an illusion that vanishes as soon as we reflect on it. In
the purest thing there is nothing possible, there are no links,
no links of any kind: nothing in all combinations are absurd, is
a fund in which nothing can be painted. [170.]

The goal of our ideas, perception of relationships within a sequence
may show a communication with one of our intelligence to be
behind any possibility. This possibility is inexplicable on the
assumption that no communication, that is God's action in giving our
perceptive faculties of the spirit necessary connection of ideas,
based on need and be represented in its essence infinite. [171.]
Without this information The order of the pure is nothing: all the
combinations that relate to it, do not hold any truth and this
is ruining all of science. There can be no necessary relationship,
when there is something that must come together and represent that:
without this condition will have all the knowledge to refer to what
exists, and even limited to what _parece_, which affects us, without
to say anything to get out of order today.

In which case science is not worthy of the name is nothing but
a collection of facts collected in the field of experience: we can
not say, 'this will or will not, this may or may not be,' we be limited
to what is, or rather, should be confined to what we are concerned,
the simple appearance without ever able to raise on the area of
individual phenomena. CHAPTER XXVII. EXPLANATION OF INDIVIDUAL
intellectual phenomenon, for the reason UNIVERSAL Eternal. [172.]
starting from the phenomena observed in the individual reasons, we
came to the universal reason; do, so to speak, the counter: take the
remaining universal reason, and see if they explain why individual
itself, and in their events. 1. º What are the truths necessary?
Are the relations of beings, such as are represented in the self,
which contains the fullness of being. No single reason finite, then
is necessary for these truths, the reason they are
in an infinite being. 2. º The essence of all things, abstracted
from all particular beings, is something real, not on it, and
separately, but in the being which is the fullness of it all. 3. º
In this case, science does not deal with empty ideas, not mere
creations of our reason, but of relationships needed to be represented
in an appropriate, known him from eternity. 4. º The science is
possible: there is something needed in the objects contributing to
the destruction does not destroy all types of eternal being, who
believes only in science. 5. º All individual reasons, born of same
origin, share the same light, all living the same life, same property,
in principle indivisible creator, divisible into the creatures.

After the drive, or better the community or uniformity of human
reason is possible, is necessary. 6. º then the reason of all men
is common intelligence infinite loop, then God is in us, and those
words hold deep philosophy the Apostle, "in vivimus ipso, et movemur
Sumus.." 7 º After all that philosophy to explain why isolation
phenomena which only considers individuals, generally without bond,
which aims to raise the magnificent building of our own reason to
the particular facts if it is appealing to a common fund, a source
of light where all the lights are born, is a false philosophy,
superficial, struggling with the theory, in contradiction with the
facts.

When reflecting on this, shame give even more Condillac and Locke,
with their explanations of why human feelings alone. 8. º So why
can not conceive the reason to point out many things: we see they
are well they are necessary, we can say nothing more.

The triangle is a circle, what reason given? none. So, and nothing
more. And why? Because actually there is an immediate need in the
relationship being represented in the infinite, which is essentially
true. The same infinite intelligence saw no reason of itself to
itself.

In the fullness of their being, find it all, and relations of everything
beyond that, nothing. By creating the individual reasons, has
given them an insight of these relations will not be tested for
speech, we see them, and nothing more. 9. º Those who recognize
the value of subjective ideas, doubts about their objectivity, or
negándola lose sight of this fact.

They want an argument, which is only a vision; require degrees, where
there is none. When human reason has certain truths can not go beyond,
or doubt them. It is subject to a primitive law of nature, of which
there can still be what it is.

Thus he sees the object, he is confident the gap between subjectivity
and objectivity, it is in the field of ilaciones, but not the
immediate reason, or the intelligence necessary truths. [ 173.]
made it to the attention of the reader if the above explanation is
somewhat more satisfactory than the _razon impersonal_, the theory
just outlined has been to all the most eminent metaphysicians.

With God everything is clarified, without God, everything is chaotic.
This is true in the order of events, it is no less in the order of
ideas. Our perception is also a fact, our ideas are, too: Full chaired
an admirable order, throughout there is a link that we can not destroy,
and neither this link, or order, depends on us. _razon_ The word has
a deeper meaning: it refers to the infinite intelligence. There can
be two reasons human being true to one, which is false to
another, regardless of any communication between the human spirit,
and all intuition, there is truth to all. If we explain this unit is
to leave us, and brought to the big unit which leaves everything and
where everything goes. [174.] This view is high, but it is the only
one if we move away from he does not see anything, we are compelled
to use words that mean nothing.

¡Thinking sublime and consoling! even if man does not remember God,
and perhaps denied, God is in his understanding, his ideas,
everything is in everything you think; perceptual strength God
has been reported: the objective truth is founded God: no one really
can say, without claiming a thing represented in God. This
intimate communication of the finite to the infinite, is one of
the most certain truths of metaphysics: while the ideological
investigations produced no result but that the discovery of a truth
so important, should be used the very time that they had consumed .

CHAPTER XXVIII. OBSERVATIONS ON THE RELATIONSHIP WITH THE WORDS
OF IDEAS. [175.] The relationship between thought and speech
is one of the most ideologically important. As we speak, think and
think while we speak with inner speech: understanding is needed
of the words as a kind of thread in the maze of ideas. [176.]

The connection of ideas with a question mark appears necessary:
between these marks the most universal and comfortable is the word,
but do not forget that this sign is arbitrary, as it expresses the
variety of words in different languages, to express the same idea.
[177.] The phenomenon of the relationship of ideas through language,
has its origins in the need to link ideas with certain signs, and
the importance of the word is a sign that it is more general, more
comfortable and more flexible.

So in these circumstances can be assembled in another sign, it achieves
the same purpose. Physically speaking, the written word is very
different from the spoken, and yet in many cases, we also used the
first to the second. [178.] The term is sometimes internal, but
rather a reflection
that extends and develops the idea that expression of it.

It is true that common so do not think without talking internally,
but as noted above, the word is an arbitrary sign, and therefore
can not be entirely true parallels between the ideas and the inner
voice. [179.] instantaneousness to think that no one agrees with
the sequence of words, suppose that fast.

It is true that the internal voice is faster than external,
but always involves succession, requiring more or less time, in
the words that have to happen.

This observation is important not to exaggerate the idea of the
relationship with the floor. The language is certainly a wonderful
conduit for communicating the ideas, and a powerful aid our
understanding, but, while these qualities, we can guard against
exaggeration to state that it seems impossible that any thought is
not a word thought

Now the faithful of Christ are a Divine work,
according to 1 Cor. 3:9: "You are God's building"; and they are also
"an epistle," as it were, "written with the Spirit of God," according
to 2 Cor. 3:2, 3. And this sacrament of Confirmation is, as it were,
the final completion of the sacrament of Baptism; in the sense that
by Baptism man is built up into a spiritual dwelling, and is written
like a spiritual letter; whereas by the sacrament of Confirmation,
like a house already built, he is consecrated as a temple of the Holy
Ghost, and as a letter already written, is signed with the sign of
the cross. Therefore the conferring of this sacrament is reserved to
bishops, who possess supreme power in the Church: just as in the
primitive Church, the fulness of the Holy Ghost was given by the
apostles, in whose place the bishops stand (Acts 8). Hence Pope Urban
I says: "All the faithful should, after Baptism, receive the Holy
Ghost by the imposition of the bishop's hand, that they may become
perfect Christians."

Reply Obj. 1: The Pope has the plenitude of power in the Church, in
virtue of which he can commit to certain lower orders things that
belong to the higher orders: thus he allows priests to confer minor
orders, which belong to the episcopal power. And in virtue of this
fulness of power the Pope, Blessed Gregory, allowed simple priests to
confer this sacrament, so long as the scandal was ended.

Reply Obj. 2: The sacrament of Baptism is more efficacious than this
sacrament as to the removal of evil, since it is a spiritual birth,
that consists in change from non-being to being. But this sacrament
is more efficacious for progress in good; since it is a spiritual
growth from imperfect being to perfect being. And hence this
sacrament is committed to a more worthy minister.

Reply Obj. 3: As Rabanus says (De Instit. . [12.] The noun is not
merely located in another proposicion in this: the being is, or
what is it, as in all others, the subject himself is involved some
predict that a determined way. When saying the table is, while the
predicate of the proposition is a direct existence, expressed by
the word _es_, yet the subject _mesa_ comes as a determination
of being that we speak: this is a table that is. Then observed to
be true that the verb in its purely substantive significance, is not
otherwise proposicion that in this, the being is. This is
entirely identical, is absolutely necessary, absolutely convertible,
meaning that the predicate may be said of all subjects, and the
subject of all predicates.

Thus, putting the proposition in another way, we have: the being
is existing and we can say is every existing and on the contrary,
what exists is to be, and everything is to be. [13.]

If I oppose that may not be available, be apparent that the purely
possible, not be, strictly, and that in the way it is, namely, in
the order as possible, is also available.

But as I turn it down more, I'm going to the propositions that
the being is copulation. The table is equivalent to the table is
available. It is true that any existing table is real, since real is
the same as existing, and thus in some sense you could say that the
proposition is similar to the other: every being is.

But it is certainly a difference in the eyes, and is that the idea of
table, not by the necessity of existence, we can design a table that
does not exist, but not as a being, not existence, ie a being that
is not to be. Anyway, is between the two proposals with a more
notable difference: the first, the subject may be said of all the
predicates saying everything is to be, but it obviously can not say
everything is table . [14.] The reason for this is that the
proposition: the being is, is absolutely identical, it is an
expression of pure, reduced forms of proposition, and therefore the
terms used to extremes, can be take indifferently for one another:
the being is, what it is to be, the being is existing, what is to
be available.

But other proposals combine different orders of ideas, and although
the idea of being common, is applicable to all, as this idea is
essentially indeterminate, it does not follow that one of the things
that the general idea should be identified with another that
also in the same general idea.

That each existing table for you to be, does not follow that every
table is. [15.]

The copulative be applied without the noun: well when we say the curve
is an ellipse, regardless of whether or not there is any ellipse;
proposicion real and serious, although there is no ellipsis in the
world. The reason is that the verb to be, when copulation, expresses
the ratio of two ideas. [16.] This relationship is identity in a way
that for a predicate may be true of a subject not just the union
of the two.

The head is united with man, and can not be said "the man is her head,"
the sensitivity is linked with reason in the same man, and can
not be said: "The sensitivity is the reason," whiteness
is linked the wall, and can not be said: "The wall is white."
The statement as a predicate expresses the relationship of identity,
and so do not exist with respect to this identity predicate in the
abstract, it is specifically to entering it, which involves identity.
The wall is white, this proposition is false because it affirms the
identity that does not exist, and the wall is white, the proposition
is true because white means something that is white, and in fact
the wall is a thing that has white there are thus verifying the
identity proposicion (Lib V.

I, chap. XXVI, XXVII and XXVIII). [17.] Then across proposicion
affirmative predicate is identified with the subject. Then when we
say we perceive identity. After the trial is the same perception
of identity. I do not deny that what is sometimes called assenso
something more than the mere perception of identity, but I do not
see how to see it clearly, we need something else to agree. What
is called assent, adhesion of the understanding, seems to be a
kind of metaphor, as if understanding acceded, was united to the
truth when it is presented, but in the end, I doubt that clear on
what has otherwise entitled to that identity. [18.]

It follows that if the same word exactly the same ideas and the same
way, different understandings, it would be impossible for the opposition
and the variety of trials. Then when this diversity or competition,
there is always disagreement in ideas. [19.] Conceive the essence of
things, and raciocinamos on them, regardless of whether or not and
even if there are no, that is, we conceive the relationship between
predicates and subjects, with no subjects or predicates. And as
all contingent beings can be and become, and even brought an instant
they started, it follows that science,
or knowledge of the nature and relations of humans, based on certain
principles and obvious, does not seek anything contingent on there.

Then there is an infinite world of truth outside the contingent
reality.

Reflecting on this it follows that
outside the world must have a quota must be established within
which it is necessary that truth which is the subject of science.

This can not be covered by nothing, well, contingent beings regardless
of their existence, are pure anything. There is no essence, no
property, no relationships, nothing which is pure, then there
is something necessary that the truth lies required of those natures,
properties and relationships that the understanding conceives
things under the same contributors.

Then there is God, and deny it is to turn science into a mere
illusion.

The community of human reason has given us a proof of this truth,
the need for science supplies us with another human, and we confirmed
the first (V.

Lib. IV, chap. XXIII through XXVII). [20.]

In proposicion required that all states not to be denied or noun,
but a relative, like this: all diameters of a circle are equal, is
wrapped a conditional proposition.

So come to the above amount to this: if there is a circle, all
diameters are equal.

Indeed: There is no circle, no diameters or equality or anything,
nothing has no property, so in all that is said to have to go proviso
condition of existence. [21.]

In the general
propositions stated the link is designed for two things: it is
necessary to note that although they say that what is stated is the
marriage of two ideas, this is not entirely accurate.

When I say that all diameters of a circle are equal, just do not
understand that this is in my thoughts, I see it well, but that is
indeed the case in reality, outside of my understanding, regardless
of my thoughts, and even my own existence.

My understanding is as a relation, a link in the objects and says
that whenever they exist, the link actually exists, as long as the
conditions under which the object is conceived.

CHAPTER IV. The body, PURPOSE OF UNDERSTANDING, IT IS NOT POSSIBLE AS
POSSIBLE. [22.] Restano clarify an important point about the idea
of the body: that is, if this idea is intended to be the actual or
potential. Scholastics said that the purpose of understanding the
body, and not without reason, because one of the things that most
clearly conceived, and that is more fundamental in our thinking is
the idea of being, which in some ways the includes all.

But as the body is distinguished in current and possible difficulty
arises here, which of these categories applies the idea of
being, our main object of understanding. [23.] The Abbé Rosmini
(Nuovo Saggio delle sull'origine idee) intended to form the basis
of our understanding, and the origin of all our ideas, is in being,
not real, but possible. "The mere idea of being, say, perception
is not something existing, intuition but something possible is
just the idea of the possibility of the thing" (Section 5, Part 1, Ch.
3, Art 1, § 2.).

I doubt that this much is true, and there seems to be confusion of
ideas here. Before getting into the idea of the possibility of
being, it was necessary to define the very possibility. Try to
give this definition, it will clarify much else. [24.] What is
possibility? The idea of possibility, regardless of their rankings,
gives a general idea of not disgust or not the exclusion of
two things with each other, like the idea of impossibility that
disgust us, such exclusion.

The triangle can not be a circle. The equilateral triangle can be.
In the first case we affirm the disgust of the ideas of circle and
triangle in the second, non-disgust that a triangle has three equal
sides.

While there is, in these cases are not talking about the triangle or
circle, with respect to their existence, and whether or not related
to the disgust of his heart, regardless of whether or not, well
that is impossible ideal entails the impossibility. [25.] As long
as claims are impossible, it also affirms the disgust, revulsion,
and there is no one thing with itself, it is impossible
that it should only when comparing two or more ideas. Moreover, in
the absence of disgust, it is possible, then any simple idea,
by itself, can give an object impossible. Then the subject of any
simple idea is always possible, ie, not disgusting. [26.]

Inherently impossible things are those that involve being and
not be the same, and therefore are called contradictory. When we
are presented with a nonsense of this kind, of course we remember the
principle of contradiction, "this can not be, say, and therefore would
not be at the same time." Why is it impossible to move a triangle?
because at the same time, serious and not serious triangle.

The idea of failure comes from not being as without this there
is no exclusion of the being, and therefore no contradiction or
impossibility. [27.] The potential can be understood in two ways:
1. º in no more than simply expresses no reluctance, and then it
is possible not only what does not exist, but that does not involve
any contradiction, but what exists, what now, 2. º expressed as non
disgust, combined with the idea of not being done, and then only
applies to things that do not exist. Made possible in the first
sense, is opposed to the impossible in the latter is set against
the existing condition of the envelope but not disgust.

The possibility in the first case, it's just called by this name in
the latter name is pure chance. These observations show that the
idea of adding something to the possibility of being, ie no repugnance,
not exclusion and if it is pure chance, it also adds the non-existence
of being possible. [28.] When the understanding be perceived in itself,
can not consider whether or not disgust. This is found in the
comparison, and the idea of being in itself is simple, does
not include comparable terms. The idea can only be found repugnant
when applied to a thing, a substance in which they pretend are
contradictory terms, and be verified in the case of wanting
to apply to be a circular triangle. [29.] The idea of being, in itself,
so far from dispensing with the idea of existence, rather it is
the same idea of existence. When we conceive to be in all its
abstraction, otherwise we do not see that there, these two words
mean the same idea. [30.] In certain things, I can conceive of
existence without essence, I could very well considering all
the figures geometric imaginable, and examine their properties and
relations, regardless of whether or not, but the
idea of being, as it is absolutely indeterminate, if abstraigo the
existence, abstraigo itself, the anonymous.

I would like to tell me , that corresponds the idea of being in
general, regardless of there.

If, after having dispensed with all the determined, well-being
itself, what remains for me - Resta, I will say one thing that can
be .-- What is a _cosa_?

Course overlooking everything given _cosa_ can not be but a mean,
then that will have something that can be equivalent to a being that
can be. However, when speaking of a being that is it may simply not
pure chance? Then does not the existence, and is alleged to lack, is
it pure chance?

then deny the existence and proposicion amounts to this: a being who
is not, but that does not involve any disgust. Consider what this
expression means: "a being who is not." What does the subject, a
being? one thing, or what it is, What does it mean something? be
one, since it dispenses with all identified. Then, or the subject of
the proposition means nothing, or the proposition is absurd,
equivalent to this other, 'something that is not, but that does not
involve disgust. "[31.]

The origin of the mistake that fight is that it applies to the very
idea of being, which should be the only things that are somewhat
specific, with no conceivable. Being pure in all its abstraction,
it is not conceivable without being present, is the very existence.
[32.]

Pure Ni can mean anything, but in order to exist. What is to be
possible, but can be done, can there? Then the idea of being independent
of the notion of possibility, and this does not apply but in relation
to that. [33.] The idea being it is the same idea of the existence
of the operation.

If we conceive to be hard, no mixing, no change, remaining in itself,
conceived as infinite, we conceive God, if we consider the idea of
being, how to participate in a quota, with application to finite
things, then we conceive the Today or making them. [34.] When applied
to the idea that things do not mean the chance to apply, but the
reality. If I say the table is, say of the subject table, the predicate
contained in the idea as yet, not to say that the table is possible,
but it exists in reality. [35.] Moreover, the idea of being ,
excluding the not, so that if the idea of being, is only possible, not
exclude that of not being as pure as possible so not to be included,
then the possibility is not alone in the idea of be, and this idea
is no more than the existence, reality. CHAPTER V. SETTLEMENT OF
DIFFICULTY. [36.] What is the idea of being as pure as possible? If
I maintain that the purpose of the idea of being is the reality,
it appears that these two ideas: to be, and purely as possible,
are contradictory, the reality is not only possible, because if it
is purely as possible, does not exist and not exist because is not
true.

Consider this problem, investigating the origin of the idea of pure
chance. [37.] As we are being surrounded by troops, and even
ourselves what we are constantly witnessing the destruction of both
the production of others, ie the transition from to be not to
be, and not to be.

A feeling close to us shows that this transit is not to be, we have
experienced ourselves: our memories are limited to a very short
term, which existed before the world.

Thus, reason, experience and intimate connection we state that there
are objects that are and then disappear, and others who previously
were
not then appear.

For things that are experiencing this change, we see the properties
and relationships that give rise to some combination of our ideas,
that combination is still exist, and cease to exist, the objects
to which they relate.

Thus we conceive the idea of things, whether or not can be, but
this guy, _cosas_ not being expressed, but in general finite objects
determined. [38.]

Hé released here because of the difficulty. The merely possible, as
conceived in the manner explained, involves no contradiction. Does
not mean 'a reality that is not reality but an object, or something,
finite, fixed idea which we have, but it does not exist, but
whose existence involves no contradiction or repugnance to any
of the conditions contained in his idea.

The words therefore be possible only if it tells you in this way
is nothing but the generalization of these and other similar proposals.
A table that is not possible.

What we mean by this? that the idea of the table, there is nothing
repugnant to there, well, merely possible, but does not mean either,
but we have many ideas of finite things, not to hate life. The term
refers to certain things designed by us, but in this case regardless
of this or that that is the essence of which we speak, and understand
all that do not offer disgust. [39.]

I object to, then be a Infinity does not exist, is a contradictory
thing, and I have no difficulty in admit. If there is an infinite
being, is absurd, and if to compare these two ideas, and infinite
non-existence, we do not see very clearly the reluctance is because
he does not understand well what is infinity.

Just for this cause has suffered and is suffering difficulties,
demonstrating the existence of God based simply on his idea. But it
is true that if there be not infinite, it would be impossible.
Impossible is what can not exist: and could not exist if not already
there. This existence can not come from another, because the infinite
can not be produced, nor of himself, because that would not
exist. Us is true, imagine the infinite in its essence, regardless
of their existence, but I repeat that this precision is possible
only us, because we do not understand well the multitude, that
if the comprendiéramos, would disgust the terms, infinite and non-existence
, as clearly as the triangle and circle. CHAPTER VI. HOW TO UNDERSTAND
THE IDEA OF THE ENTITY THAT IS THE WAY OF UNDERSTANDING. [40.] When
it is said that the purpose of understanding the body, there
is doubt whether meant that the idea of entity is the general
form of all concepts, or if you just want to say that everything the
body is conceived of understanding, or in other words, if the quality
of the object is attached to the body, as being, in a way that only
in this form are designed objects, or if you just mean that
the quality of the entire body agrees that the understanding conceives.
In the first case, take the proposicion reduplicativamente and
tantamount to this: "The understanding sees nothing, but as an
entity is," the second would be taken formally, and amount to this:
"all that the understanding conceives body is. "[41.] I do not think
we can say that the object of understanding is the only entity
in between, so the idea of entity is the only way that the
understanding conceives; but that this form is a prerequisite to
any perception. [42 .] The idea being, is not only conceived by the
understanding, it is clear when one considers that this in itself does
not include any determination, any variety, but that is not being, in
all its abstraction; understanding then if not collected
in objects that otherwise this idea would not know the differences
in them, not their perception of what would happen to them is
common to all: to be. [43.]

If they say that these differences are perceived ways of being, as
represented by changes in the general idea, whether it be agreed
that in itself is not the only perceived, since the change, the
way of being, and adds something to the idea of being. The
triangle is a triangle, your idea is a modification of the general
idea, and nobody will say that the idea of the rectangle does not
add anything to the triangle, and are the same thing. The same
occurs with respect to the idea of the entity and its amendments.
[44.] We have already seen (Lib. IV, cap. XXI) that ideas do not lead
us indeterminadas alone positive knowledge: and certainly no This name
deserves better, than the body. If our understanding is limited to,
the levy would only be a vague concept, incapable of any combination.
[45.]

The same denial, as we shall see below, is known by us, may not be,
if the admitiésemos understanding nothing, but as it is conceived
entity, in which case we miss the essential condition of all
knowledge: the principle of contradiction. [46.] these reasons are
enough to keep out of doubt that I intended to say: but this point has
intimate relations with the most momentous of logic and metaphysics,
I explained more extensively in the next chapter. CHAPTER VII.
all knowledge is based on the postulate of existence. [47.]
I said that the idea of no entity is only perceived, but is a
necessary way to any perception.

But I do not mean by this, but we can not perceive in the act, but there
comes at least as a condition of everything collected. Let me explain.

First of all, because of what is contained in the sacrament: for
Christ is Himself contained in the Eucharist sacramentally.
Consequently, when Christ was going to leave His disciples in His
proper species, He left Himself with them under the sacramental
species; as the Emperor's image is set up to be reverenced in his
absence. Hence Eusebius says: "Since He was going to withdraw His
assumed body from their eyes, and bear it away to the stars, it was
needful that on the day of the supper He should consecrate the
sacrament of His body and blood for our sakes, in order that what was
once offered up for our ransom should be fittingly worshiped in a
mystery."

Secondly, because without faith in the Passion there could never be
any salvation, according to Rom. 3:25: "Whom God hath proposed to be
a propitiation, through faith in His blood." It was necessary
accordingly that there should be at all times among men something to
show forth our Lord's Passion; the chief sacrament of which in the
old Law was the Paschal Lamb. Hence the Apostle says (1 Cor. 5:7):
"Christ our Pasch is sacrificed." But its successor under the New
Testament is the sacrament of the Eucharist, which is a remembrance
of the Passion now past, just as the other was figurative of the
Passion to come. And so it was fitting that when the hour of the
Passion was come, Christ should institute a new Sacrament after
celebrating the old, as Pope Leo I says (Serm. lviii).

And the moral? Payne. Only proves their god of morality and the morality
of God! - What do you want because your morals? I do not know whether
it is in and of itself what was good or evil, and therefore did not
need to act my way to change. I act according to my nature, what its
appropriate for me is good and I'll do it, and what you would run, for
me is malicious and I do not defend myself against it, if I stand
in the way comes. You can, as they say, remain virtuous and
oppose the so-called vices fight without so despise their opponents
to have to do what a sad feeling. Chaumette. True, very true! Hérault.

Reply Obj. 1: We are nourished from the same things of which we are
made, but they do not come to us in the same way; for those out of
which we are made come to us through generation, while the same, as
nourishing us, come to us through being eaten. Hence, as we are
new-born in Christ through Baptism, so through the Eucharist we eat
Christ.

Reply Obj. 2: The Eucharist is the perfect sacrament of our Lord's
Passion, as containing Christ crucified; consequently it could not be
instituted before the Incarnation; but then there was room for only
such sacraments as were prefigurative of the Lord's Passion.

Reply Obj. 3: This sacrament was instituted during the supper, so as
in the future to be a memorial of our Lord's Passion as accomplished.
Hence He said expressively: "As often as ye shall do these things"
[*Cf. Canon of the Mass], speaking of the future.

Reply Obj. 4: The institution responds to the order of intention. But
the sacrament of the Eucharist, although after Baptism in the
receiving, is yet previous to it in intention; and therefore it
behooved to be instituted first. Was curious to know what kind of
sensitivity are the abstract ideas and actions with which we perceive
as well as those others: _yo I do not want, I choose this,
but I want this to aquello_.

None of these acts may be presented in sensible intuition, are made
of a superior order to the area of sensitivity, and yet they are
present to our spirit in a clear, live, ponder them, take the objects
of our studies, we distinguish clearly between them, sort of a
thousand ways.

These facts are presented immediately know, not speech, but by
intuition, then it is not true that the intuition of the soul covers
only sensitive phenomena because it finds itself in a long series
of phenomena not susceptible to are given in intuition. [84.]

Nothing is worth saying that these phenomena are internal forms empty
of all meaning, but in regard to a sensible intuition. They are
what they are somewhat different from the same sensible intuition,
and this is something we perceive, not by speech but by intuition,
then more than sensible intuition, there is another sequence of
pure intellectual. The question is not whether these concepts are
pure or not any value for us to know objects in themselves, merely
exist and whether they are sensitive.

That there is true, as witnessed by the conscience, and confess it all
ideologues, who are sensitive can not be sustained without destroying
nature, and unless anyone can hold Kant, since with such careful
distinction between sensible intuition and the concepts. [85.] Such
phenomena are not susceptible of deep experience inside ourselves
that is like a mirror which reflects the depths of the intellectual
world.

It is true that spirits are not immediately present to our perceptions,
and that we need to know a discursive process, but although there have
been, in that our intuition of the phenomena are internal
representations, although imperfect, of what is found in brains of a
higher order. Here are some ways in-picture ideas, because it can
not be a better image of thought that other thought, nor an act of
will that another act of will.

In this way we know our minds other than by a kind of intuition
not immediate but mediate, as presented in our consciousness as an
image in a mirror. [86.]

The spirit of communication through words, and other natural and
conventional signs, it is a fact of experience, intimately linked with
the needs intellectual, moral and physical. When a spirit has been in
communication with another, the knowledge that you have, what
happens in this is not by mere general concepts, but by a kind of
intuition, that although the media, it is true. The thought or the
affection of another, who come into our minds through the word,
excite in us a thought or affection similar to those of the spirit
we communists. Then, in consciousness itself, not just knowledge but
_vemos_ awareness of others: sometimes being so perfect likeness,
who guessed everything that was going to tell us, unfolding within
us the same set of phenomena that are checked in spirit, with whom
we are in communication.

This happens when we say: 'I understand perfectly what V. thinks,
what he wants, which tries to express. "[87.] This observation seems
important to keep out of doubt in our minds, regardless of the
order-sensitive, there are concepts, not empty, but refer to object.
Which we transmit knowledge of the order of pure intellectual phenomena,
by word or sign of another, does not destroy the nature of intuition:
because it met all the necessary conditions, which are the internal
representation, and the relationship of this to an object that affects
us. [88.] In this ideological analysis of facts, whose existence
can be no doubt, it is proved the falsity of the doctrine of
Kant, that there is only spirit in our intuitions sensitive and
non-existence of the German philosopher's problem of whether or not
it is possible that spirits them to other objects in a given intuition
than the sensible.

This problem is resolved in ourselves, as the careful
observation of the phenomena of the internal and mutual communication
of the spirits, gave us to understand not only the possibility but
also the existence of the intuitions of different sensitivity.

CHAPTER XIV.

VALUE OF INTELLECTUAL CONCEPTS,
regardless of intellectual intuition. [89.]

While that allows for our spirit there is no intuition that sensitive,
do not inferiria that pure intellectual concepts of the order forms
were empty, useless for knowledge of the objects themselves. Had
always understood the general ideas that were not intuitive,
since they were by the same general _inmediatamente_ could not
refer to an object, but nobody had thought that they could not serve
to give us true knowledge. [90.]

It is true that the general ideas by themselves do not lead to any
positive result, or in other words, we do not know human beings
exist, but if they are joining with other individuals, those
established between these and a reciprocal influence, which is
knowledge.

When I say in general: "any contingent being needs a cause," this
proposition, but very true, nothing I said in the order of events,
if dispensed absolutely loved that there are contributing causes
of any kind.

In this case the proposition expresses a relation of ideas, not facts
and knowing that it is merely an ideal, not positive. [91.]

The relationship of the ideas involves a tacit condition, that gives
the facts for a hypothetical; because when it says that every number
must have a cause, then claim a record of ideas removed from any
application possible before on the contrary, it meant that if there
is in reality be a quota, will have had a really cause. [92.]

For this hypothetical value of the ideas to become positive, it
suffices to verify the condition involved in the general proposition.

"Everything needs to be a contingent cause:" This alone shows me
nothing about the real world: but from the moment that gives me the
experience to be a contingent proposition, before sterile, it is
about how fertile.

As soon as I get the experience to be a quota, the need to know
their cause, the need to infer the proportion that has saved the
business producer with the thing produced, by the qualities of this
goes on to be found in that .

In this way build a positive real science, which refers to certain
facts, relying on two bases: one is the true ideal, the other is
real, or is the data supplied by experience. [93.]

As the being who thinks need for awareness
of it own, no mind can be limited to knowledge of truth pure ideals.

Even if you suppose entirely isolated from all other beings,
incommunicado with absolutely everything that is not him, so as not
to influence them or receive any influence can not be reduced to
knowledge of a purely ideal, since therefore it is thinking, it is
aware of itself, and consciousness is essentially a particular
knowledge of a given, since this would not be without conscience.
[94.]

This observation destroys the basis for its system seeks to isolate
the real with the ideal order.

It is that experience is not only possible but absolutely necessary
in every thoughtful, therefore, that awareness is already an experience
in itself, and the most clear and safe experience. Then the truths
of the ideal order is indispensably linked with the real: it is
assumed possible incommunicado ignore a fundamental fact of
ideological and psychological science: consciousness. [95.] To reveal
the truth and accuracy of the above doctrine, suppose a man or
rather a human spirit, which completely ignore the existence of an
external world, the whole body, and spirit to everything, not knowing
anything about its origin or its destination, but at the same time
pursued his intellectual activity, because without this it would
be like a dead thing which would offer the observation field.

Assuming you have the general ideas of being and not being, of substance
and accident, of absolute and conditional, and so on necessary and
contingent. It is clear that you can combine in different ways,
and reach the same results purely ideal, we reached us.

This course is more conducive to a number of abstract knowledge,
independent of experience: however, even in this case, the facts known
to be limited purely ideal, and it would be impossible not to drop
the real, if not off thinking to be conscious of it all their own.

In fact, therefore it is supposed to be one who thinks it is assumed
that one can say to himself: "I think." This act is highly experimental,
and only his reunion with the truths in a common consciousness,
so that the exit can be isolated itself by creating a positive
science, by which the passing world of ideas to the world of facts.

The instability of his thoughts and the permanence of that
experience, offer a case study, which particularicen the
general ideas of substance and accident, and the subsequent appearance
and disappearance of their own concepts, the ideas he expressed to
be made and if not, the memory of the time they began their
operations, beyond which there lies the memory of its
existence, will meet the contingency of your own, which fact combined
with the general principles that express the relationships between
contingent beings and necessary, will suggest the thought that
there should be one that has reported the existence.

CHAPTER XV. CLARIFICATIONS ON THE VALUE OF THE GENERAL CONCEPTS. [96.]
The ideas that a spirit was isolated different forms of beings of
them, for they were more vague, not to the point would not refer
to something real, the spirit can not know the nature of this
reality, but certainly knew of that exists. A man born blind is not
so clear idea of the colors, or the sensation of seeing, but do
not known why this feeling exists, and that words, color, view,
and others that relate to the hearing have positive and specific
subject? Not for certain.

The blind do not know what those things to hear, but know that
something is, the concepts that relate to them, may be called
imperfect, but not in vain, with the express words, have a significance
for him incomplete, but positive. [97.]

There is much difference between the incomplete and indeterminate
concepts: the former may refer to something positive, but
imperfect knowledge, the latter contain only a record of ideas that
mean nothing in the order of events. Let's make this clear example of
the difference by extending the previous paragraph. A man born blind
has no intuition of the colors, or anything that relates to the
sense of sight, but is sure that there are external events, which
corresponds to an internal affection is called _ver_.

His idea is incomplete, but contains an object. The existence of this,
it is testified by the word of those with the sense of sight: not sure
what it is, but knows it, or speak in other words, do not know the
essence but existence.

Suppose now , which is the possibility of a different order of
feelings of our own, and do not look like anything any of us experience:
the concept that refers to the new sensations, not only incomplete,
but not have relation to any real object.

The general idea of affection of a sensitive, here everything
will be in our spirit, but without knowing anything about its
existence, and with mere conjecture on the conditions of their
possibility. This example clarifies my idea: the man born blind who
hear of it belonging to the sense of sight, we find an incomplete,
but which corresponds to the existence of a series of events, known
for its spirit, but we believe a kind of feeling different from
ours, are concepts that have a general order, whereof we know
nothing. [98.]

Here is explained how our mind, without an intuition thing, however
you can know and be completely certain of his existence, I have shown
here that the concepts, but do not relate to a sensitive intuition,
can have a value, not
only in the order of ideas, but also of the facts. [99.]

To test sterility of the concepts beyond the sensible intuition,
Kant argues, and one reason is that we can not define the categories
and principles that emanate from them, without referring to the
objects of sensibility.

This proves nothing, because firstly, the impossibility of a definition,
do not always come from the concept to be defined is empty, but
it often arises that the concept is simple, and therefore is not
susceptible to decomposition into parts that can be put into words.

How do we define the notion _ser_? In all that is said to define,
enter as defined: words, thing, reality, existence, all mean _ser_.
As sensible intuition is the basis of our relations with the outside
world, and therefore with our neighbors, it is natural that give
expression to a concept, let us have any hand in applications
sensitive but it does not infer that regardless of them not in our
mind a truth contained in the concept that we want to explain.
[100.]

This ability to understand the objects under general ideas, is one of
the characteristic properties of our spirit and our weakness to
penetrate the essence of things is an indispensable assistant for
us to think. In the course of ordinary business of life, we need to
place knowledge of the existence of a thing, and one of its attributes,
but we need to have a perfect knowledge of it. For these cases we used
the general ideas, which aided by the experience of something, put
us in media communication with the object that is not presented to
our intuition.

Why can not verify the same, with respect to being insensitive,
and that alone is the subject of intellectual intuition? Can not
answer what we can to these discussions, which have more than the
observation in support of the internal phenomena are confirmed
by common sense.

CHAPTER XVI. PRINCIPLES OF VALUE, REGARDLESS OF SENSITIVE Intuition.
[101. ] The principle of contradiction, a prerequisite of any
certainty of any truth, and without which, and the external world
as intelligence is reduced to chaos, offers an example of the
intrinsic value of pure intellectual concepts, regardless of sensible
intuition.

Asserting that the possibility of a thing is and is not at the
same time, or the exclusion of the not for being, does not bind to
the concept of being given any idea, and therefore it dispenses
completely across sensible intuition. Whatever the object,
whatever its nature and relations of their existence, corporeal
or incorporeal, simple or compound, substance or accident, contingent
or necessary, finite or infinite, always verify that they are not being
excluded, and not be as if there is the absolute incompatibility of
these two extremes, so that by the assertion of one is always, in
all cases, in all imaginable assumptions, the denial of the other.
However, limiting the value of these concepts sensitive to
intuition, it would destroy the principle. The limitation of the
principle would be declared null. Its universality is linked to
its absolute absolute necessity if you are restricted, he is contingent,
because if we assume that the principle of contradiction can be
lacking in one case, we need to all.

Admit the possibility of an absurd is to deny its absurdity: if the
contradiction of being and not being there in every case, there is
none. [102.] The difficulty is in knowing how to make transit the
principle of contradiction the real truth, because it does not
assert anything specific, but only if failure to the disgust and
not to themselves, will be impossible to say that neither of these
extremes do not deny the other and vice versa, and moreover, this
is simply impossible to single principle, which holds nothing but
the most general relationship between the two more general ideas,
it follows that he alone is completely sterile to lead to any
positive result.

All this is really great, but is not opposed to anything said about the
intrinsic value of the general concepts.'ve Been noticed that the
truths of the purely ideal value is only hypothetical, and to produce
a positive science, they need facts that they can be applied,
but I noticed too, that these are supplied by experience, and be
thinking that everything has at least one that is aware of it
himself.

After thinking everything will be a positive use of the principle of
contradiction, of course you will find in their own conscience which
made him apply. [103.] Even if one accepts the assumption that
there is no spirit on our intuition that
the more sensitive, not inferiria is that the general principles
and in particular that of contradiction, could not have a positive
value, because if we assume that these principles combined with
sensitive intuition produce a knowledge that there are other beings
out of the order of sensitivity, it is that these given us in
intuition without immediate, will be actually known.

This is what occurs when the human spirit rises to the knowledge
of what speech is not sensible.

On one hand, the data supplied by experience, and another, and
necessary truths, are establishing a link of a positive science,
which guides us in complete security to the knowledge of objects
not subject to immediate experience.

This theory is so clear, so obvious, so based on the consciousness
of our own actions, as we see in terms consistent with the procedures
of the human spirit, which causes the odd surprise encounter philosophers
whose erroneous doctrines forced to defend and esplanade. [104.] The
transit of the known into the unknown is a typical approach of our
understanding, and this traffic is impossible without denying the
reality of all knowledge that does not relate to an intuition.

What we presented in this way, we are given is our view, we need not
look for it if there is no object really known, but which offers
insight, intellectual progress is impossible, all the advances
in then our spirits will be reduced to combinations of forms
submitted by sensitivity, and even these will not lead to anything,
when they cease to be intuitive, that is when objects do not relate
to certain senses immediately.

The _Crítica of reason pura_ do is ruin any reason, it considers
it appropriate to commit suicide or to be convinced that it contains
nothing positive. Reduced to only the general principles relative
to the sensitive intuition, science dies .

What we have demonstrated the principle of contradiction applies
fortiori_ _A everyone else, if this is not saved from the wreck, can
not save any. Then the need implied by the principles is undermined
by its basa, but we know that there is nothing in us a number of
phenomena that we _parecen_ needed.

What is the use of them can do, outside the subjective? none.
Because here we are in the most complete skepticism, sentenced to
mere appearances, without any means of knowing reality. [105.]
No, not the human spirit is doomed to a sterile so desperate: the
reason is not a vain word, not the intellect is a childish game
that only serve as entertainment.

Amid the concerns, mistakes, the loss of the miserable humanity,
that strength descuella this admirable work, with which the spirit
is cast out of it himself, _conoce_ what can not _ver_ and _presiente_
a new world _sentir_ to be one day. Nature is veiled to our eyes;
impenetrable mysteries around us, we find that we do want to shadow
mask the reality of the objects, but through the darkness columbramos
some of those flashes of light: however, the deep silence
that reigned in the deep of beings whose waves stirred us as
imperceptible drops in the vastness of the ocean, occasionally we
hear mysterious voices that tell us which direction we must continue
to reach beaches unknown.

CHAPTER XVII. Intuition RELATIONS WITH THE DEGREE OF BE Percept.
[106.] the perfection of the intelligence inherent in the extension
and clarity of their insights: the more perfect is, it will be more
intuitive. Infinite Intelligence does not know by discourse, but by
intuition, no need to search for objects, covered in front of them:
identity with intuition, as far as its essence; intuition of causality,
for which there or can exist outside it. Other spirits are the more
perfect intuition, the higher the order to which they belong, so that
by understanding concepts indicated by an imperfection of the
intellect. [107.]

As the place to be on a scale of the universe will be its relations
with other beings. God, being infinite, and because of everything that
exists or can exist, is intimate and immediate relationship with the
entire universe, not only in its entirety, but also in its smallest
details. For this reason, God exists in a perfect representation of
all beings, not just taken in its generality, but also in its final
differences.
Consequently we give
order that no priest shall do this in future." And Pope Julius I
rebukes some priests "who offer wine pressed from the grape in the
sacrament of the Lord's chalice." Consequently, it seems that wine
from the grape is not the proper matter of this sacrament.

_On the contrary,_ As our Lord compared Himself to the grain of
wheat, so also He compared Himself to the vine, saying (John 15:1):
"I am the true vine." But only bread from wheat is the matter of this
sacrament, as stated above (A. 3). Therefore, only wine from the
grape is the proper matter of this sacrament.

_I answer that,_ This sacrament can only be performed with wine from
the grape. First of all on account of Christ's institution, since He
instituted this sacrament in wine from the grape, as is evident from
His own words, in instituting this sacrament (Matt. 26:29): "I will
not drink from henceforth of this fruit of the vine." Secondly,
because, as stated above (A. 3), that is adopted as the matter of the
sacraments which is properly and universally considered as such. Now
that is properly called wine, which is drawn from the grape, whereas
other liquors are called wine from resemblance to the wine of the
grape. Thirdly, because the wine from the grape is more in keeping
with the effect of this sacrament, which is spiritual; because it is
written (Ps. 103:15): "That wine may cheer the heart of man."

Reply Obj. 1: Such liquors are called wine, not properly but only
from their resemblance thereto. But genuine wine can be conveyed to
such countries wherein the grape-vine does not flourish, in a
quantity sufficient for this sacrament.

Reply Obj. 2: Wine becomes vinegar by corruption; hence there is no
returning from vinegar to wine, as is said in _Metaph._ viii. And
consequently, just as this sacrament may not be made from bread which
is utterly corrupt, so neither can it be made from vinegar. He talked
about _punto final_ to express instantaneousness of perception and
the view, pointing out that the understanding is not determined
until the last minute.

Indeed: suppose it had used the same word _atestiguarán_
without end, saying: "if it is true, the senses _lo atestiguarán_
if this falls under their jurisdiction." The words are the same, and
yet not cause an negative opinion: and why? because the party
continues. If I had stopped talking, or that an employee had
voice inflections that indicate the termination of the period,
_not_ have emerged as a lightning. The same effect, to pause and
accent in the voice, producing a comma or a point in writing. Seeing
these signs, we feel instantly with a speed incomparably greater
than any external or internal speech. Fácil be many more examples that
demonstrate the superiority thinking that leads to the word, in terms
of speed, but many believe the alleged, to show that there is some
exaggeration in the saying that "the man, his thinking before
speaking, thinks his word," if it is understood that every thought
is impossible without a word meant.

CHAPTER XXIX.

ORIGIN AND NATURE OF THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN language and ideas.
[183.]

It seems that many ideas are like sensations and feelings; simple facts
that we can not decompose and therefore unable to explain with words
(Lib. IV, cap. V). Clarify these ideas, but no one could say that
sometimes confuse? when talking about an idea, we reflect on
it and I did notice (Lib.

I, chap. III and XXIII), which reflects the perception of our
actions was much less than direct. [184.] I think sometimes who knows
maybe things that we ignore, and ignore others that we know.

The truth is that there are many ideas which have been disputed in all
philosophical schools, without having obtained a satisfactory result,
and yet these ideas should be quite clear to our mind, since they
all use it continuously without mistakes never.

Philosophers have failed to agree on the ideas of space and time,
and yet the most ignorant man uses these words and apply them accurately
in all cases to them.

This seems to prove that the difficulty is not in the idea, but the
explanation of it. [185.] It has been noticed that the
common language there is much truth and accuracy, so that by
the observer is surprised to deepen the hidden wisdom that is hidden
in a language: so many, so varied and delicate gradations are to be
distributed in the sense of words. This is not the result of reflection,
the reason is the work of operating directly, and thus using the ideas
without thinking about them. [186.] In the research we want ideological
idea of the idea, and warns that if no This is necessary in science,
it may require another idea another idea, and so proceed to the infinite.
We should bear in mind that when it comes to simple facts, both external
and internal, no other explanation that designate them. [187.] The
_ideas-imágenes_ are a source of error, and probably no less explicable
ideas with words. The _idea-imágen_, means that there are no more
ideas in our mind that the sensitive performances, and assume that any
idea can be expressed with words that make us complex compositions
which is simple, and allocated to the Fund which is the only form.
[188.]

The idea seems to be a composite whole, or rather a series of
Crawler ideas, or are excited simultaneously, or occur very quickly.
Our understanding of the need to link the words together and retain
the thread that links you from here is that when the idea is simple,
the word is not indispensable.

It is said that the word is needed to _pensar_; may speak more
accurately, saying that it is necessary to _recordar_. [189.] When
the object that we are offering is sensitive to intuition, we did
not need the word.

Reflecting on the straight line on the angle on the triangle, we can
see that we need only its imaginary representations, and
do not need to link these objects with words.

The same happens when thinking about the unit, or in numbers, two,
three and four, which we easily represent significantly.

The need of words began when the imagination can not represent
different objects, and we need to combine several ideas.

If no links to a word the idea of a polygon of many sides, we would be
as much confusion, and we would not think about it. [190.] As our
faculties of perception, not create their objects, but are limited
to combine, and our perception of the other party is unable to
cover many a time that the exercise of our faculties, by necessity
is now serving as a lasso á perceptions, the unity of consciousness.
This to ensure that it has happened, has no other means to link
its operations with certain signs, and hence arises the necessity
of arbitrary signs.

The signs have to be sensitive because of the relationships
that link our intelligence with the power-sensitive: for which
reason it is noted that any sign that a link can be subject to an end.
The crowd and variety of ideas and combinations, requiring a sign
highly varied and flexible and that this variety and flexibility
and meet certain characters that make it easy to do in memory
retention, and behold the advantages of language: amid its amazing
variety, with such characters in the radical syllables.

Conjugation of one verb gives us a number of different ideas, which
so serious about retention difficult, if not bound by any bond,
which is the radical syllable: as in the verb to love, the syllable
_am_. This is of note that learning a language to cost us a lot more
work irregular verbs, and in children it was also noted, they are
wrong in the irregularities.

I would compare the language to a record library, which is
much more perfect the better meets the simplicity and variety,
to describe precisely the kinds of books and shelves where they
are. [191.] _Sucesion Ideas and operaciones_ Here the origin of the
need for a sign that the recall and linking; _relacion our understanding
with the powers sensitivas_, here is the reason that the signs
have to be sensitive and _variedad simplicity lenguaje_, here is
their merit, as a sign of the ideas (Lib V.

I, chap. XXVII). CHAPTER XXX. innate ideas. [192.] There are some
opponents of innate ideas, profound differences. The materialists
argue that the man gets all the senses, so far has our understanding
is just the product of the body that has been refined, as a machine
acquired through use, ease of movement and sensitivity. Nothing
involving preexisting in spirit, but the power of feeling, shall we
better not support the spirit, but a being whose body naturally
produces what is called intellectual development. sensuous, not attached
to the art faculty of thinking, not admit innate ideas; confessed
the existence of the spirit, but only gave sensory powers: everything
should flow out of the feelings, and could not be other than feeling
transformed. They innate ideas with other opponents who were not
material, nor sensuality.

Such were the scholastics, which on the one hand defending the principle
that nothing is on the understanding that before was not in effect,
fought on the other hand, materialism and sensuality. The difference
between scholastics and advocates of innate ideas, might not have been
as much as you might think, if the question had been raised
differently. [193.]

The scholastics saw ideas as accidental forms, so that an understanding
with ideas, could be compared to a canvas-covered figures. The
advocates of innate ideas said "on the canvas preexisten the figures
to come forward the hearing, simply lift the veil that covers
them." This explanation is hard, because contrary to the experience
openly testifying: 1. The sixth need for the excitement of
understanding the feelings, 2. º formulate intellectual experience to
think, and that tells us that there is within us a kind of production
of ideas.

"The canvas is blank, said opponents of the ideas innate ved
in this test, as the artist continually works to fit figures. But
the doctrine of these, perchance supposed preexistiese absolutely
nothing to the experience? ¿Admitted that the man was simply the
work of instruction and education? ¿Defending our inner world is
not more than a series of phenomena caused by impressions, and that
could have been the other exchanges, if the prints have been others?
Certainly not. They admitted: 1. º an internal activity, taking
advantage of the sense experience and was excited by it, 2. º The
need of the early intellectual and moral principles, 3. º an
inner light that we see when us, and settle them with irresistible
necessity. The "super us signatum est lumen vultus tui Domine,"
is quoted on each page of these authors. [194.] Santo Tomas said
that it must have been communicated to us naturally, the first
principles, both speculative and practical, "_naturaliter nobis
esse oportet igitur indita_, sicut speculabilium begins, ita et
operabilium Principia '(1.

PQ 79. Art. 12).

In another place to search if the soul is aware of the intangible
things in the eternal reasons, (in rationibus æternis), said that
intellectual light, that is in us, is like a stake in the uncreated
light, which contain the reasons eternas .

"Intellectual Ipsum enim lumen, quod in nobis est, nihil est aliud,
quam quædam participate Luminis increati similarity, in quo continentur
ratione æternæ '(1. PQ 84. Art. 5). [195.] In these passages
is explicitly that is in us something of what has been acquired by
experience, in which the scholastics agree with the advocates of
innate ideas.

The difference between them is that the first consider the intellectual
light as insufficient for understanding where _especies_ or missing
forms, which can reflect on, and the others believe in this light the
ideas involved are those that distinguish the light colors, they
make them spring from the same light. [196.]

The question of innate ideas agitated so hot in the philosophical
schools, would not provide much trouble if the plant with proper
clarity. To this must be classified as related phenomena called internal
ideas, and to determine with precision the meaning of the word
_innatas_. [197.]

As we said earlier that there are representations in our minds
sensitive intellectual action on them, or ideas Geometry; pure
intellectual ideas, intuitive and non-intuitive, is certain general
ideas and indeterminate. For clarity I will put an example of all
these cases.

Represented a particular triangle in my imagination, here representing
a sensitive measure intellectual perception of the nature of the
triangle under consideration in general, here's an idea on the
order or sensitive geometric layout, my knowledge of an act of will
or understanding, here a purely intuitive intelligence, will, conceived
in general, here given a general idea, substance, here is an indefinite
general idea (see Chap. XII and XIII). [198.] What is meant by
innate? The unborn child, which has the spirit, not by work itself,
not by impressions coming from the outside, but for immediate
gift of the Author of nature. The innate as opposed to purchased, and
ask if there are innate ideas, is to ask if prior to receiving views
and engage in any act, we now have in our minds ideas. [199.] It can
be argued that representations are sensitive innate . Experience
shows that without the impressions of bodies we have no representations
to them; that once those positions in shares of the convenient way,
we can not help experiencing.

This is general to all the sensations, both current and remembered.
Those who strive to defend sensitive representations in our soul, above
all functional impressions, they argue that an opinion can not
support with facts or experience or reasons _A priori_. [200.] It
is noteworthy that the argument based on the inability of
the body convey impressions to the spirit, proves nothing in favor
of the view that fighting. Even if the argument were conclusive,
there is no need inferiria of innate ideas, because that causes the
system will save occasional solitary physical body and spirit, and
while it could be argued that the ideas existed, but have been due
to the presence and in the event of functional disorders. [201.]
ideas on the representations sensitive, appear to consist, not in
understanding but in this act on those representations (V.

Cap . XX). Call innate ideas is contrary to these experiences, and to
ignore the nature of the problem. Such acts can not be realized when
they lack the object representation that is sensitive and this
does not exist without the impression of the bodily organs.

Then named these innate ideas, or meaningless, or may not mean
anything other than the existence of intellectual activity, then
developed with the presence of sensitive intuitions. [202.]

Intuitive ideas that do not relate to sensitivity, as we are reflecting
on the acts of understanding and love can not be innate. Which in
this case serves as an idea is the same understanding
or the will, which is presented to our perceptions in consciousness:
therefore say that these ideas are innate, it means that these acts
existed there before.

Even if the levy does not relate to the present acts, but to recall,
the argument retains the same: because there is no remembrance of
them, without having preexistido and acts as our own, may not have
existed before the ejerciésemos . [203.]

Infiérese that none of this intuitive idea is innate, since that
intuition involves an object presented to the perceptive faculty.
[204.]

The general ideas are certain to refer to an intuition, then they
can not exist before this, as otherwise the intuition is not
possible without an act, is that these ideas are not innate. [205.]
are the general ideas ultimately indeterminate, ie, those that do
not offer themselves to the spirit nothing exists even possible
(see Chap.

XXI). While noting the nature of these ideas, they would see that no
more than one aspect of perceptions of objects, taken under a
general reason.

Undoubtedly one of the characteristics of intelligence is the
perception of these aspects, but also what is not is why we have
included such ideas as a kind of pre-existing forms in our mind,
and with various acts of practicing their perceptive faculty.

I do not see on what basis we can say that these ideas are innate,
and that lie hidden in our mind before the development of any
activity, like corner tables in a museum not yet open to curiosity
of the spectators. [206.]

It seems that instead of handing over such assumptions, we must
recognize the innate spirit activity, subject to the laws which
imposed the infinite intelligence that he has raised.

While it is intended that the ideas are different from perceptual
acts, there is no need to admit preexisting.

It is true that in this case will be recognized in the spirit of a
productive faculty representative species, of which we are not
exempt, identifying ideas and perceptions.

These are acts that flow so to speak, the substance of our soul,
and which appear and disappear as the plant flowers, and so anyway
we recognize in ourselves a force, placed under proper circumstances,
produces what did not exist before.

And since faith is of things
unseen, as Christ shows us His Godhead invisibly, so also in this
sacrament He shows us His flesh in an invisible manner.

Some men accordingly, not paying heed to these things, have contended
that Christ's body and blood are not in this sacrament except as in a
sign, a thing to be rejected as heretical, since it is contrary to
Christ's words. Hence Berengarius, who had been the first deviser of
this heresy, was afterwards forced to withdraw his error, and to
acknowledge the truth of the faith.

Reply Obj. 1: From this authority the aforesaid heretics have taken
occasion to err from evilly understanding Augustine's words. For when
Augustine says: "You are not to eat this body which you see," he
means not to exclude the truth of Christ's body, but that it was not
to be eaten in this species in which it was seen by them. And by the
words: "It is a mystery that I put before you; in its spiritual sense
it will quicken you," he intends not that the body of Christ is in
this sacrament merely according to mystical signification, but
"spiritually," that is, invisibly, and by the power of the spirit.
Hence (Tract. xxvii), expounding John 6:64: "the flesh profiteth
nothing," he says: "Yea, but as they understood it, for they
understood that the flesh was to be eaten as it is divided piecemeal
in a dead body, or as sold in the shambles, not as it is quickened by
the spirit . . . Let the spirit draw nigh to the flesh . . . then the
flesh profiteth very much: for if the flesh profiteth nothing, the
Word had not been made flesh, that It might dwell among us."

Reply Obj. 2: That saying of Augustine and all others like it are to
be understood of Christ's body as it is beheld in its proper species;
according as our Lord Himself says (Matt. 26:11): "But Me you have
not always." Nevertheless He is invisibly under the species of this
sacrament, wherever this sacrament is performed.

Reply Obj. 3: Christ's body is not in this sacrament in the same way
as a body is in a place, which by its dimensions is commensurate with
the place; but in a special manner which is proper to this sacrament.
Hence we say that Christ's body is upon many altars, not as in
different places, but "sacramentally": and thereby we do not
understand that Christ is there only as in a sign, although a
sacrament is a kind of sign; but that Christ's body is here after a
fashion proper to this sacrament, as stated above.

The faculty representative performs at times sensitive to the presence
of an object, others spontaneously, without any dependence on the will,
and finally, as a result of a free act. This place is not the test
mode with the phenomenon of the representation is linked with
disorders of bodily organs, for now, I just record and I intend
to explain the facts in the ideological sphere, regardless of their
absolute physiological aspect. Among sensitive classified above
representations, which
one might call _pasivas, espontáneas_ and _libres_, there are
notable differences that should be observed. [119.] passive
representation is given to the soul, regardless of their activity.

Being in the presence of an object with our eyes open we can not
see him not: and not even see him in a certain way, not in changing
the viewpoint or other terms of the vision.

For this reason, it seems that in the exercise of their senses the soul
is purely passive, since their representations that necessarily
depend on the conditions attached to their bodily organs in relation
to the objects. [120.]

Representation spontaneous or the productive power of acting independently
sensitive representations of external objects and the desire, it
also seems to have some passive, and its exercise depends on the
functional disorders. This seems to indicate that these performances
often exist without any order, or at most, which had at one time,
if they are memories of past sensations. Nótase also sometimes
offer these representations, despite the efforts of the will to dispel
forgotten and some are so stubborn, that are successful for a long
time the whole strength of free will.

This is not easy to explain, but appealing organic causes that occasionally
occur in the soul the same effect as the external impressions of the
senses. The truth is that in some cases the internal representation
reaches the point of vivacity, that the subject confused with the
impressions of the senses, which can not be explained only by
saying that the internal organic affection has become so strong,
that has equivalent to that could give the impression of an object
acting on the external body. [121.]

In this spontaneous production is noteworthy that the performances
do not always correspond to other previously received, but it is
discovered in them a force combination of imaginary objects which are
entirely new. This combination is sometimes exercised in a manner
completely blind in which case the products are just quirky, but
other times the activity, subject to certain conditions regardless
of free will, produce beautiful works of art or sublime.

The genius is nothing other than the spontaneity of imagination and
sentiment, who are subordinate to the conditions of beauty. The
artists have no genius, not lack of willpower to produce works
of genius, are not short of imagination to play the beautiful view
when they are presented, not lack discernment and taste to distinguish
and admire the beautiful objects, or ignore the rules of art, and
how much can be said in explanation of the nature of beauty, what
they lack is the beautiful spontaneity instinctively: that spontaneity
that unfolds mysteriously breasts in the most remote of the soul,
that far from being outstanding the free will of its possessor, he
directs and let him, chasing the dream and the waking in the fun
in occupations, which often consume the privileged existence of
man, what a violent fire broke the fragile walls of glass that it
holds. [122.] free production occurs when the performances are
offered to us by our will rule, and under conditions prescribed by
this, what happens in the construction of art, and combinations of
figures serving as a geometric object to science. [123.]

_A priori_ this construction, can not relate to a guy in our imagination,
because in this case, and this would represent the same sensitive,
there is no need to build it. How is it possible then to build a
representation of which we have no image? not enough to possess
the elements, ie, the extension was, therefore, that these figures
can be made infinite, then you need something that can serve as a
standard for the representation that is desired. For the understanding
that it should be noted that sensitive intuitions are linked to general
concepts, with whose assistance can be reconstructed. Although today
I was not offered sensible representation of a figure either, for
example, a regular hexagon, I merely made the concept of ideas, _línea,
six, and equal ángulos_, so you can produce on my internal representation
sensitive hexagon, and built in the interior if needed. Where to be
seen that the activity of free productive sensitive certain representations,
is based on concepts that, although independent of the sensitivity,
refers to it in a way indefinitely. It follows also that the understanding
can conceive sensitive indeterminate, while preserving the conditions
attached to their cases in the information provided by the
sensitivity, without which the action relates to any intellectual
intuition determined. [124.] Analyzing the subject of these concepts,
referring to intuition sensible, considered also in general, it
seems that they are dealing with the understanding that things
are not offered separately, and it only has linked some signs, with
safety, however, that it is possible which develop in these turns,
and to contemplate with complete clarity.

CHAPTER XX. IF ANY REPRESENTATIONS between Intuition SENSITIVE
AND INTELLECTUAL ACT. [125.] occurs here the question of whether it
is necessary for understanding, for the relations geometric
intuition offered in the sensitive, possesses some intermediate
representations that make contact with the sensible order (see chap.

VI). At first glance it seems that indeed there is the need
identified, since the understanding is not a power-sensitive, can
not be his immediate object sensing components.

But consider the matter, it seems more likely that there is no need for
any intermediary except a sign that links to the sensitive elements,
and with whose help you find the point where they gather, and the
conditions that have to hold.

As this sign is a word, or any thing that can be rendered significantly
mediation not resolve the difficulty, since it always be the question
of how the understanding is in communication with the sign sensitive.

The difficulty proposal considered to be derived from the faculties
of the soul, not only as different but as separate, each exerting its
own functions in an area, exclusive of the area completely isolated
from others.

Thus considering the power of the soul, although favorable to the
classification of operations, does not agree with teaching experience.
No one can deny that we see in our internal
problems, very different operations, which arise from different
objects and produce very different results, this leads to distinction
of powers, and to separate its functions in a way so that they do
not mix and confuse.

But it is clear that all operations and affections of the soul, are
bound in a common center, such as the conscience.

Whatever it is the separation of powers between them, the fact is
that the conscience testifies that we are the same one that thinks,
feels that, who wants, or he who does the suffering, the truth is
that awareness that we witness the intimate communication that are
all operations of the soul. instantly reflected on the impression
felt, instantly experience a pleasant feeling ungrateful or as a
result of a thought occurs to us, think about the will, or we reject
the object of thought, there is within us a hotbed, so to speak,
of different classes of phenomena, which are linked, changes are
produced, reproduced, mutually influencing each other in the ceaseless
communication.

All we are aware, all are in a common area, then _yo_ that experience.
What need is there then, people pretend to give intermediate
communication powers of the soul? Why this call with his understanding,
may not immediately address the problems and sensitive performances,
and soon found its conscience? Awareness course that, in its indivisible
unity, includes a variety of internal phenomena, why not catch the
intellectual soul can not relate to everything she holds the asset
or receptive, without any need to pretend species used Post as a
power to communicate what is happening in the other. [126.]

The _entendimiento agente_ of Aristotle admitted good philosophy it
represents an activity of soul representations applied to sensitive,
do not seem much, if it involves producing new representations
of the various intellectual act. Understanding is all activity,
the receptivity of the soul has no more part in it that provide the
materials: the concepts developed in the presence of these materials
do not seem to be anything other than the exercise of that activity,
subject of a party to the entailed by the thing understood, and
furthermore subject to the general conditions of any intelligence.
[127.] I do not mean that the intellectual act does not relate
to the subject: replacing the idea of the soul by other events or
conditions or by representations of any kind, whether active or
passive.

Now, if I asked, for example, what is the immediate object of an act
of intellectual intuition sensitive perceptual given, I would say
that it is this intuition. If it insists on the difficulty of
explaining the union of different things, replicaré 1. º union
that exists in the unity of consciousness, as is attested by the
intimate connection, 2. º objected that the same difficulty, which
militates against claim that understanding develops an intelligible
species, out of the sensible intuition; could ask understanding how
to develop their intelligible species, is in contact with that
intuition.

If this immediate contact is impossible in one case, it is also in
another, and if allowed the opportunity for you, can not deny it to
us. If the understanding does not relate to a certain intuition,
and it only sensitive intuitions Overall, his immediate object is
the possibility of them also generally subject to the conditions
of the object, considered in general and the intelligence of all:
which includes the first, the principle of contradiction.

CHAPTER XXI. BRAINSTORMING CERTAIN indefinite. [128.] A more intellectual
acts that refer to objects sensitive in general, we must admit other,
on pain of falling into the sensual, limiting understanding to the
collection and combination of objects offered by the sensitivity. In
this case what is the purpose of the intellectual act? Here is a
question as difficult as interesting. [129.]

Understanding pure functions can be performed by certain ideas or
indeterminate: ie ideas for enclosing something specific,
achievable in a being that is offered, or may be offered to our
perceptions or ideas that represent general relations, without application
to any object. One should not confuse the general ideas with the
indeterminate, or with certain individuals. Every idea is an indefinite
general but not vice versa; _ser_ the idea is general and indeterminate,
the idea of intelligence is general, but determined. The idea is
for a particular individual, and given to a property and it is determined
by dispensed therein from any relationship to an individual
exists. This distinction leads to considerations of the utmost importance.
[130.] It seems that the main object of the understanding, as
appropriate for indeterminate concepts is _ser_, mostly universality.
This is the central idea, fundamental, which is about crowded
and all other orders. The idea of being the principle of
contradiction emerges with its infinite applications of all kinds
of objects it derives also from the substance and accident, cause
and effect, of necessary and contingent, and how science is locked
in the ontological, which for this reason is called ontology, or
science of the body. [131.] With this knowledge, which express the
general relations of all beings, does not contain any characteristic,
while not departing from its purely metaphysical, and not descend to
field of reality. For us to be a real design, it is necessary to
provide us with some property. Being and non being, substance and
accident, cause and effect, ideas are highly fertile, when combined
with something positive, but taken as a whole, without adding
anything to determine that we do not have an existing object,
nor even possible. [ 132.] _Ser_, what gives us this idea? _cosa_
one of the abstract, but if we conceive that this thing exists, or
you may need to think this thing is something characteristic properties.
As soon as we are speaking of something that exists, we
seek instinctively what it is, what is its nature. God is the being
in essence is the same as being infinite, but nothing would represent
our spirit, if not concibiéramos not only as being, but also as
being intelligent, active, free, and the other perfections of his
essence infinite. [ 133.]

The idea gives us the substance of a permanent, which is not
inherent to another, as amended. This idea, taken in its generality,
without any determination that it adds to the idea of being, livelihood,
nor do we offer any real or achievable. For a substance that exists
or is possible, not just stay in general, the survival itself is not
inherent in a subject, it must also note a characteristic, any
attribute, such as body, intelligent, free, or any other , which
determines the general idea of substance. [134.]

The same can be said about the idea of cause or productive
activity. One thing active in general gives us no real or possible.
For an existing design, we need to refer to a specific
activity: not just the idea of power or do, in general, requires
that we represent the action may be brought in or which way,
referring to certain objects, producing, not people in general,
but beings with their characteristic attributes.

It is true that we do not need to know what those attributes, but
we need to know that exist with its findings. The most universal
conceive, is the first, the infinite God, but not see it as a
cause in the abstract, according to the simple idea of
productive activity, but to add to the general idea of the facts,
the intelligence and willingness free.

When we say that God is Almighty extend his powers to an infinite
field: we do not know the attributes characteristic of all beings
that can be raised by the activity infinite, but we are sure that
every existing or potential, has a certain nature, and not conceivable
that a being can be produced, but that is not to be, without any
determination. [135.]

This determination is essential to conceive the existence or the
possibility of a being, not to be found in the vague ideas, and we
need to take experience, for which reason, if our understanding was
limited to the combination of the relationships that are offered
in the indeterminate concepts, would be sentenced to a science
completely sterile.

We have already seen (Chap. XIV) the absolute solitary ideal order with
the real, it's impossible not to be dismissing any intelligent
self-consciousness itself, but it must not be content to know that
there is such a communication, trying to find out, points to what is,
and how far it extends. [136.] Before turning to such research, I have
noticed that the doctrine set forth in this chapter should not be
confused with Chapter XIV. It states that the general ideas alone
are valued purely hypothetical, and that leads to nothing real, not
combining them with some positive development, provided by the
experience here that I tried to be vague ideas, substance and
because, by themselves, are insufficient to make any existing design
or even possible, if not accompanied by any fixed idea, which gives
a character to the general idea, there was general ideas to a
hypothetical value, with respect to existence, here identified the
need to follow the ideas uncertain, with some property that makes
them capable of forming a core, even in the order as possible.

These things are very different not to confuse matters, which
is necessary not to forget the distinction between the general ideas
and vague, and between individuals and certain [129]. CHAPTER XXII.
Limits of our intuition. [137.] If we can draw the boundaries of the
camp experience, and determine exactly how they are locked, we determine
the characteristic attributes that may be an existing or presentársenos
as possible. [138.] Sensitivity passive, active sensitivity,
intelligence, willingness Here, if I am not deceived, everything
is contained in our experience, here and why we can not conceive of
any attribute of a characteristic, besides the four shown.

Examinémoslos separately and in detail, since it requires the importance
of the results that it brings to do well this boundary. [139.]
  Sensitivity passive. For this I attribute the way in which we are
presented with the beings that we call bodies. As I have explained
in different locations, thus reducing the extent terminated or figures.
That this attribute contains a true determination can not be denied:
we just found that these objects are presented to our senses, with
extension and shape, and other properties attached to these fundamental
attributes.

Motion and impenetrability, are determinations that come with the
extension, or rather are relations of the same extension. For us,
the movement is the alteration of the situations of a body in
space, or the alteration of the positions of the extension of a
body with respect to the extension of space.

The impenetrability is the mutual exclusion of two extensions: the
ideas of solid and liquid, hard and soft, and other similar relationships
express the extent of a body with respect to admit, more or less
resistance, the extension of another one place. Nothing here
important questions about the nature of the extension; bástanos
which is an object for us, we are offered in clear intuition.

The attribute of passive sensibility has always been regarded
as one of the determined characteristics, and being here is a
fundamental classification on the scale of beings. Both in schools and
in the common language, are divisions vulgares body is immaterial,
tangible and intangible, sensitive and insensitive, and it is easy to
notice that the words corporeal, material, sensitive, although not
entirely synonymous in certain respects, the often taken as such, as
expressing a kind of beings that are characteristic of such property
under which it offered to our senses. [140.] Sensitivity is the active
power of feeling. This for us is subject to immediate
experience, since that we have in ourselves. With that clear presence
of sensory events, we very well what is the mood in subjects other
than us, but not be aware of what happens in another sensitive subject
when you know very well what is the view: it is others in what we
in the consciousness itself, is portrayed else.

When we speak of a sensitive, we know very well what it is, and not
through a vague idea, but quite determined. When offered
Whether other ways are possible, then the idea of being with them,
loses a little of its determination, our understanding of intuition
is not so serious that, goes on the reality or the possibility of using
general concepts. [141 .] intelligence or the strength of combining
design and responsive regardless of the order, other information
is provided by the experience. As this is an act of conscience, not
known for abstract ideas, but by intuition: it is carrying out an
activity that we feel in ourselves, that we ourselves _yo_, this
activity is present to us in a way so intimate that if we perceive
any difficulty, it is because of his union, his identity with the
subject which has to perceive.
And therefore it must be said that the substantial form of the bread
does not remain.

Reply Obj. 1: There is nothing to prevent art from making a thing
whose form is not an accident, but a substantial form; as frogs and
serpents can be produced by art: for art produces such forms not by
its own power, but by the power of natural energies. And in this way
it produces the substantial forms of bread, by the power of fire
baking the matter made up of flour and water.

Reply Obj. 2: The soul is the form of the body, giving it the whole
order of perfect being, i.e. being, corporeal being, and animated
being, and so on. Therefore the form of the bread is changed into the
form of Christ's body, according as the latter gives corporeal being,
but not according as it bestows animated being.

Reply Obj. 3: Some of the operations of bread follow it by reason of
the accidents, such as to affect the senses, and such operations are
found in the species of the bread after the consecration on account
of the accidents which remain. But some other operations follow the
bread either by reason of the matter, such as that it is changed into
something else, or else by reason of the substantial form, such as an
operation consequent upon its species, for instance, that it
"strengthens man's heart" (Ps. 103:15); and such operations are found
in this sacrament, not on account of the form or matter remaining,
but because they are bestowed miraculously upon the accidents
themselves, as will be said later (Q. 77, A. 3, ad 2, 3; AA. 5, 6).
_______________________

SEVENTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 75, Art. 7]

Whether This Change Is Wrought Instantaneously?

Objection 1: It seems that this change is not wrought
instantaneously, but successively. For in this change there is first
the substance of bread, and afterwards the substance of Christ's
body. Neither, then, is in the same instant, but in two instants. Can
I tell so many refinements that are too high ... No! This and much
more able to be good actors. Are they on the stage of the theater,
should not find, like us on the stage of life, or accuracy of the
screams of those modulations that, at certain times, as thumbnails
are wonderful and we were soon to be?

M. Andrieux comedians divided into three groups: those who "sing",
which "scream" and that "speak." Vulgar artists dramatic start 'screaming'
roles. This usually indicates excessive power, and emotion, failure
to rule on it. Is a defect that it has suffered Sara Bernhardt: In
view of the public, a nervous shudder forcing the fray teeth and
jaws from their closed sibilant voice went with a hard metal that
after many players mistakenly have wanted to emulate.

Other comedians' sing ', they are worse: they are the slaves of the
"hose" hateful, the servants of rhythm, in whom the habit of
"heard" kill the spell of overwhelming emotion.

To avoid the two defects, the actor needs to bear in mind that
the perfection of his art is very "naturalness".

The actor who, knowing his role of memory, say so, not as one who
"repeats," but who "improvised", ie uninhibited speaking sometimes
stammering other, as happens in life, you've got us feeling
reality. These excellencies, we could call acquired or study, you
need to add a player of great ability and physical assimilation nothing
vulgar.

A cross-eyed comedian, patizambo or hunchback, much genius that
has never imposed or will stir the hearts of the crowds.
As the prophets, such as speakers, as everyone who triumphed with
the gesture, the actor needs to be beautiful. Despite the centuries,
Greece and Rome live in us. We love the line. A 'Quasimodo' forgive
him the error of his spine, because we know that under his hump
buffoon, there's a good boy. Dumas (son) thought that a comedian
could succeed only with emotion, with what he called "the devil
inside. " The veteran critic Sarcey Francisco, is more iconólatra;
proclaims the importance of form.

"The public - said, - it seduces with a good figure and an expressive
voice. The rest is the work of instinct. "The former comedian and
then professor of the Conservatoire, M. Worms, also recognizes the
supremacy of the sculpture. "First - write, - the physical qualities
are indispensable: the voice that carries so decisive influence
on the public gaze, the reflection of intense thought, without which
there can have a good comedian, a nervous and sensitive temperament,
the ability to "externalize" quickly, giving a robust observation,
and memory capacity that plays important role in the functioning
or dynamics of all these powers.

"Coquelin, more astute, establishes certain classifications: to
translate the classics requires an unimpaired 'speech' for the
interpretation of works below, a good presence and a voice in the
'tic' nice. Mounet-Sully, just wanted the comedian with "sensitivity,
imagination ' . But this is unusual: all the actors, from Melingo
Luciano Guitry, calling for their peers, rather than genius, elegance
and beauty. In fact, many stories could be cited. They say that some
night, M. Dormeuil, former director of the theater of the Palais-Royal,
told Derval, the beautiful Derval, who then began his career and
had very blond hair and eyebrows black and very rich - dear son,
you take off those eyebrows today You have been painted too.

Surprised the actor replied: - What? What do I delete ... But you
are mine! The kind M. Dormeuil repaired better. - It is true
- he said .-- Oh! You will win soon. In those eyebrows you are an
original and a further contrast. The observation is just.
Derval as many other players have accelerated the time of his
success, thanks to the expression suggestive of their factions. An
example is Antonio Vico: I think that half of its tragic power resided
in the forest hirsute, menacing and terribly eloquent in irritable
his eyebrows. It is evident that for this work to improve the
function exerted on the body, as well as gymnastics develops muscles
Acrobat, similar custom to pretend again and again the same
expressions, improves the particularities physiognomic of theater
artists, educates the line of the lips, gives expression to the
front and Regulation, bigger eyes, so that we find consistently in
a variety of veteran actors and winking eyes, which never has the
face of young comedian.

But the face of education is not enough: the distance that separates
the stage from the seats, the richness of the decorations, and most
of all, the glow of the battery 'eat' a lot, ie diminish the importance
of the figures, the dwarf and smearing, and thus was born the art of
_maquillaje_ or strengthen or 'bulk' expressions, so that they
can reach the public in their absolute intensity and purity.
_maquillaje_ The face is what it is the idea: something that revives
you, who gives plasticity and relief, a kind of mask or 'second face',
which, combined with the first, the real face, to cooperate in the
"materialization" perfect, just the thought of the author.

All major theater artists have recognized the importance of
_maquillaje_, whose invention is attributed to Daniel Bac, famous
actor of bufo during the second empire. Celebrity Lafont never took
no less than three hours to paint, and M.

Febvre was surprised that the Conservatory has not a special class
where students can learn, reasoning, the art featured. The _maquillaje_,
in fact, is kind of a little corner of science, whose cultivation
requires certain discrete anatomical knowledge. Is often characterized
as Jose Santiago or Simó Raso, who offer us in 'The Green Ray'
and 'evil-doers of good' two 'heads' unforgettable, it is very difficult.
Requires knowing all the secrets of the talking face: wrinkles is
where the mockery, the folds of despondency, the rows of distrust
and anger, and also known as a painter, that there should be harmony
among the wigs and Additions and expressions of face, how to widen the
eyes of aviejar mouth, the lips that give expression, and
the color more in line with the words you have said.

Moreover, these minute details that contribute to auto, so precious
to the art of the comedian. The suit affects the actor: the sword and
the trust inspired by education, perhaps by atavism, romancescos
itching for adventure and conquest, a peasant dress striding
predispose to attic, to clumsy gestures, a wig of 'old' leads to
bending forward and slide temblequeos seniority in the hands and
voice.

Ginisty Account, In fact, the tender and touching story of a failed
actor who, no longer able to appear in public, and served as the second
point to make 'one voice' from racks. The night he debuted the comedy
"A gentleman or a lady," the elder actor was present, "from within",
the role of
a postboy.

To which, bowing to his inveterate habit of characterizing, dressed
from head to toe, and dyed his nose and cheeks red, thus giving
himself the impression that it was a drunk driver.

His comrades tease him for that zeal, that they felt useless. But he
replied: - I think: this helps me to 'tone words'.

Amen's review, insatiable, of the work that they represent, the
actors must applied to rummage in reality how many elements can
reinforce the impressions that reads them, and give a veneer of fiction
scenic indeed real and vivid. As for the painter, as novelists,
actors looking into the street, or in ateneo in the tavern, data or
sketches then adjusted the figures or characters you want to
interpret. Some comedians, as Coquelin and Pepe Santiago, know
something of design, have an album where just the heads and pointing
gestures that interested her more attention. Maligny of Regnier,
in his "Manual of comedian," says they need to know the real rates and
study mainly "in" the field ", the voice, gestures, simple and
honest, of the peasants.

In "churches", the true and the false devotees. In "hearings", the
lawyers, prosecutors and judges. In 'the homes of the nobles and
the rich, "the servants and subordinates arrogant. In "the palaces
of princes, to whom the custody and those who go there to visit. In
'cemeteries, the truly bereaved relatives and heirs who appear to be.
"The advice of this old' Manual ', a little childish, are, in
essence, an unsurpassed accuracy.

Never agility equals creative genius inexhaustable fertility of nature,
all characters that novelists and playwrights Corneille from Rostand
to have invented, not joined the crowd of types, temperaments and
family, before they can pass on our balcony a very short space
of time. Some of the footprints left in the reality that the
formation of a character or idea stage, have passed into history.
Garrick says in his' Memoirs' that shouts, livid faces a desperate
friend who lost the trial because of a daughter two years it had
fallen to the street from a balcony, then helped him to compose the
gusty nature of the ' King Lear.

"After so many protracted meditations, they called the tests" table
", some stage directors such as Fernando Diaz peritísimos Mendoza
estimated adverse spontaneity that should grace and freshness to
the work of comedian then the test set or general, where each
player gets used to know the real site that deals in the works with
other characters, and finally, the night always awesome and terrible,
the premiere.

The English actress Cristina Nilsson, said: "There are artists
who seek to ignore this painful hyperesthesia that precedes the"
débuts.

"artists who are counted as the late Anthony Perrin, retain, amid the
general excitement shock, the friendly humor of his blood cold.
Vico, in the intervals, remained absorbed. Reject all María Tubau
conversation. Pepe Rubio seeking solitude and comes and goes, the eyes
fixed on the floor, hands crossed behind their backs. Night fever is
that, curtain inside, no one close hand, it seems that nobody knows
... The panic of those hours cruel forces many comedians to take
certain precautions.

Some seek a spur to his nerves in fasting, others seek momentarily
irritated artificial, not to feel the "fear of the public.
Talma, for example, before leaving the stage, lashed to his servant,
slapped him, insulted him: - Traitor ... miserable ... get on their
knees!

... This allowed autosuggestion better after she left. In as
much or as little rudeness of those blows, the poor server knew
the stress that his master was. - Today - read, - M. Talma has
stuck me very strong, good work. Other artists, by contrast,
look at the coveted perfect serenity, some laxity intimate
that felt better. Thus, Adelaide Ristori, the eve of the big premieres,
he visited a cemetery, and reading epitaphs were moved to tears
with those expressions of 'human pain'. And Fanny Kemble, hours
before first interpret the role of 'Juliet', went to St. James Park
read Blum's book, entitled: "Main Characteristics of the Holy
Scriptures," because that - say, - served as excellent sedation
exaltation of my brain. "The audience, which penetrate a theater
ticket purchases with your local law to enjoy it ignores all those
obstacles which embitter the successes, it seems easy, the comedian.

These, in turn, also ignored. If they knew, on leaving the Conservatory,
the career of performing arts appear to them as a cost sour,
inhospitable, almost inaccessible, to try to upload a few.
MONTANSIER LA A century ago that a room booked at the Vaudeville
Theater, Paris , retains the chair of that extraordinary woman who
was called "the Montansier. The friend who walks in front of us,
he says, stopping and going down a little voice: "... Here sat the
Montansier to run their tests." It is an armchair canonjil spacious
and comfortable back seat and square, between whose arms we see calm
the agitated figure and graceful spicy, full mobility and
initiatives, the famous entrepreneur of the Palais Royal. And forget
about the old furniture, such as evaporation of silence and peace of
melancholy. Margaret Brunet was born in Bayonne in the year
1730. His parents were laborers modest. One afternoon arrived
in the city of artists who in the mid-eighteenth century wore
through Europe and on a cart, the joy of their souls naughty weightless.
Scratch the faces of comedy, colorful costumes, carnival chords
of brass, which thundered into the square, stir the spirit, calm
up there, the young, with a wind of freedom.

It would be nice to run away, breaking the order, handed over to the
attraction of those horizons where the goddess Aventura celebrated
daily, in the vagueness of the undulating roads, their rites of
poetry and mystery. and hallucinations with "the joy that passes,
Margaret Brunet, without leave of anybody, without love any of his
captors, followed celebrity ... When he arrived in Paris, was twenty,
and was installed at the home of his elderly aunt, Mme.
Montansier, Mercero of San Roque. The future actress was then a girl
menudita, pizpireta, big talk, suggestive of pure evil. Her lips, full
of laughter and grace, her pale beauty of the South and its black
eyes, gave up the admiration of many noble old, at sunset,
walked the majesty of his long casacones embroidered under the trees
of the Tuileries . Some generously protected, and Margarita, who all
last name "the Montansier, had, as the medieval queens, a" Court of
Love. "In the thirty years met Neuville, an actor representing the
lowest order in theaters papers trouserpress second, the admirable
Neuville, tolerant and discreet, and with whom the Montansier old
and glorious, was married thirty-four years later. Actually, Margaret
Brunet, the latter trait of fidelity, so forgetful in disharmony
with his temper, did not pay more than a sacred debt: Neuville,
indeed, who was at the same time that he conquered ungrateful
heart, set your destination. Dazzled under arcane and dazzling eyes
of his idol, the modest actor repeating: "You were born to an actress.
Why do not you dare? I assure you that the "roles" of queen, had
to be very good.

"After the Montansier it was protected by some wealthy people, took
lease of the theater Rouen. Thus began his career as one woman
entrepreneur, who built the theater of Havre, and had his
two theaters in Paris, for which, for sixty years, paraded the most
famous actors and actresses of that era: Mlle. Mars, the
interpreter happy Molière and Marivaux, the Monvel, sisters
Sainval's famous Dugazón, master of Talma, the cute Brunet, the solemn
Grammont, who was beheaded; Tiercelin ... and many others. And then
the authors holidays in vogue: Dorvigny, Martainville, Aude ...

The first 'step over' to the Fortune gave Margarita Montansier in
Versailles, hall director in the 'Hall' of the street Sator.
Represented that night a Fabart work entitled "the reapers, and
the choir sang joyously around a pot in which a humeaba cabbage
soup. The smell of food frugal impressed the Queen Marie Antoinette,
who incognito and accompanied by the Princess of Lamballe, witnessed
the function from a proscenium stage. Marie Antoinette wanted to try
the soup, and so she and the Montansier met and were friends.
Shortly thereafter, and thanks for the Queen, built in Margarita
Réservoirs other street theater largest luxury that became a kind
of "antechamber" of the Comédie Française, and that there had to
be examined all the artists who aspired to walking on the street
scene sacred Richelieu.

Tantos not do enough to satisfy neither the ambition nor the activity
of the young actress, who the night of April 12, 1790, opened under
the name "Theater Montansier 'doors classical coliseum of the
Palais-Royal.

The opening was a complete success. Representáronse "The disgruntled
husbands' comic opera of Dubuisson and Storace, and" dull "comedy
in three acts, Desforgues and the public who had paid the boxes
two and three pounds, not ceased to applaud the performers. La Neuville
Montansier and were delighted, the businessman, a good abbot called
Bouyon, they loved the Montansier paternally, and who years later, in
a riot, hung from a lamppost, rubbed his hands ... In addition
to intelligence provided awake and will never know that the cowardice
of fainting and fatigue, Montansier possessed the gift of opportunity
that rare virtue, almost omnipotent, which is the landmark of all
victories.

In June of that year The Government, anxious to celebrate the first
anniversary of the assault of the Bastille and understood
that the demolition work were long overdue, invited people to take
part in them. "This invitation civic - and Bordier CHARTON say in
his" History of France, - all electrified heads, women
participated in the general enthusiasm and spread, students,
seminarians, even the brothers, left their cloisters and ran to the
Champ de Mars, with a peak shoulder.

Montansier The was not the last match at the patriotic appeal, and
seconded by Neuville obedient, he closed his theater and went to
Campo de Marte, the smiling face of a company comprised of authors,
musicians and comedians.

Many women imitated her example, and this increased
his popularity.

She eventually ruled that the suit Parisian who wish to contribute
to the patriotic work, should use.

It was something very trivial, very bazaar, but very beautiful: a
of muslin trajecillo gray dust that hide well, and half shoes the
same color, and a wide straw hat adorned with a cockade.

In the tiny hoes argued that, burning tricolor ribbons and flowers
...

Besides remarkable actress and entrepreneur initiatives and
inexhaustible resources, was the Montansier one of those women who
surround the art of combining sympathy and knowledge to use them,
is something innate and natural.

Thus, in his house, put a runner in communication with its theater,
Margarita met every night to prohombres of the time of raging
political storms, under the eyes and conciliators, a little mocking,
the actress, and the Mountain Girondine Deponie passengers and their
hatreds were the hands. indolent Sitting on couches in the house
long indulgent artists full of beauty and grace, and full of fearsome
men will talk about politics or chat with love: it met the actor
Volange and the Duke of Orleans, there was the friendship of
Bonaparte, still unknown, and Talma, there came also the powerful
head soon after, and one after another, had to increase the fame
sinister guillotine: Camilo Desmoulins, San Jorge Barros, Danton,
Marat, Robespierre ...

When France suffered the onslaught of coalition nations, the
Montansier, trying to dispel the bad memories of his friendship
with the late Marie Antoinette, organized and placed under the
immediate command of a splendid Neuville battalion composed of
actors, writers, extras and drivers.

He also enlisted as a bartender and the Sisters of Charity, a number
of actresses.

This platoon of volunteers ported bizarre day in the bloody Jemmaques,
where the general Dumouriez was covered in glory.

Then Montansier who knew defeat as well take advantage of their victories
was a dramatic, across from which he ran to join his
companions, and on the battlefield gave for recreation and
entertainment of the troops, a role play outdoors.

These traits master of ingenuity and opportunism, not sufficient,
however, to calm the mistrust that inspired the demagogues and the
Comunn imprisoned on the pretext that "the National Theater, built
by the Montansier in the Plaza de Louvois, and then called the
Theater of the Republic and the Arts, was built "in order to burn
the National Library mansalva.

When Montansier regained freedom, their will never tamed even had
direct impetus for other theater campaigns, organizing new companies
and to require the Government as compensation for the damage they
had caused unfairly, seven million francs!

Montansier ... But it was the old, used, their former friends and
protectors had died and his spirit, but always spirited, that he
had lost the elasticity of rebellious early years. Then the famous
adventurer looked Neuville, the kind Honorato, his first and also
his last love, and married him ... Montansier deceased on July 13,
1820, at the age of ninety years. The audience that went to the gardens
of the Palais-Royal, was aware of in this silver-haired old lady,
who every evening from her window, settled the look of her long
eyes smart about that crowd, where it was no longer any of the men
who loved.

This woman begins the story of French theater in the nineteenth
century ... OCTAVIO Octavio Mirbeau Mirbeau is above all a great
disappointment, a remover bold ideas, a professor of energy, which
would bars, and also a philanthropist. Descended from an ancient
family of notaries, believe it reconcentró the spirit of protest
from all tataradeudos, mollares souls, thoughts turned off without
struggles, desires peaceful aged enduring meekly in uniformity,
horribly sad, the notarial office.

Mirbeau feel hatred towards those who quietly bend the back of his
predecessors and its verb, sometimes impetuous and flamboyant like
the Hugo, excites the vast battles, both for hypocrites rutinarismos
curses of social and discover the defeated and the weak fire of
the holy rebellion.

Hence if this sacrament had
been celebrated then, the body of Christ would have been under the
species of the bread, but without the blood; and, under the species
of the wine, the blood would have been present without the body, as
it was then, in fact.

Reply Obj. 1: Although the whole Christ is under each species, yet it
is so not without purpose. For in the first place this serves to
represent Christ's Passion, in which the blood was separated from the
body; hence in the form for the consecration of the blood mention is
made of its shedding. Secondly, it is in keeping with the use of this
sacrament, that Christ's body be shown apart to the faithful as food,
and the blood as drink. Thirdly, it is in keeping with its effect, in
which sense it was stated above (Q. 74, A. 1) that "the body is
offered for the salvation of the body, and the blood for the
salvation of the soul."

Reply Obj. 2: In Christ's Passion, of which this is the memorial, the
other parts of the body were not separated from one another, as the
blood was, but the body remained entire, according to Ex. 12:46: "You
shall not break a bone thereof." And therefore in this sacrament the
blood is consecrated apart from the body, but no other part is
consecrated separately from the rest.

Reply Obj. 3: As stated above, the body of Christ is not under the
species of wine by the power of the sacrament, but by real
concomitance: and therefore by the consecration of the wine the body
of Christ is not there of itself, but concomitantly.
_______________________

THIRD ARTICLE [III, Q. 76, Art. 3]

Whether Christ Is Entire Under Every Part of the Species of the Bread
and Wine?

Objection 1: It seems that Christ is not entire under every part of
the species of bread and wine. Because those species can be divided
infinitely. If therefore Christ be entirely under every part of the
said species, it would follow that He is in this sacrament an
infinite number of times: which is unreasonable; because the infinite
is repugnant not only to nature, but likewise to grace.

Obj. 2: Further, since Christ's is an organic body, it has parts
determinately distant. For a determinate distance of the individual
parts from each other is of the very nature of an organic body, as
that of eye from eye, and eye from ear. But this could not be so, if
Christ were entire under every part of the species; for every part
would have to be under every other part, and so where one part would
be, there another part would be. It cannot be then that the entire
Christ is under every part of the host or of the wine contained in
the chalice.

Obj. 3: Further, Christ's body always retains the true nature of a
body, nor is it ever changed into a spirit. Now it is the nature of a
body for it to be "quantity having position" (Predic. iv). But it
belongs to the nature of this quantity that the various parts exist
in various parts of place. Therefore, apparently it is impossible for
the entire Christ to be under every part of the species.

_On the contrary,_ Augustine says in a sermon (Gregory,
Sacramentarium): "Each receives Christ the Lord, Who is entire under
every morsel, nor is He less in each portion, but bestows Himself
entire under each."

These two powers, although different, are closely linked: they
need each other to produce knowledge. How to lend to each other
assistance that they need? "The understanding, Kant says
elsewhere, has been defined above only negatively: an ability
to know not sensitive. As we can not have any intuition
independently of sensibility, it follows that the understanding is
not an intuitive faculty. Removed intuition, there is no way of
knowing which concepts, from which it follows that knowledge of
all human intelligence is knowledge by concepts, not intuitive, but
discursive (general).

All intuitions, as sensitive, are based on conditions, and therefore,
the concepts of functions. Understand the functions of unity of
action necessary to sort different representations, and make
them a common representation. The concepts are therefore based on
the spontaneity of thought and intuition sensitive receptivity
of impressions. The understanding can not make other use of these
concepts that _juzgar_ through them, and the intuition is the only
representation that has an immediate object, never a concept referred
immediately to an object, but to some other representation of this
object, or is this an intuition, is also a prayer. The _juicio_ is
mediate knowledge of an object, and therefore the representation
of this object. In any trial there is a concept applies to many things,
and that under the plurality includes a given representation, which
refers to the object immediately. So in the trial: _todos bodies are
divisibles_, the concept _divisible_ appropriate to other
concepts, including the body, is referred to here particularly.

But this concept of body is related to certain phenomena that we
have our sight, because these objects are immediately represented by
the concept of divisibility. All trials are functions of unity in our
representations, therefore, that instead of an immediate, one higher
than the former contains many others, serves the knowledge of the
object, so a large number of potential knowledge are reduced to one.

But we can reduce all the operations of the understanding to trial,
so that the _entendimiento_ in general, can be represented as a
_facultad of juzgar_ because As mentioned, this is the power of
thinking. The thought is knowledge by concepts, but concepts such as
attributes of potential lawsuits, refers to any representation of
an object, still undetermined. Thus the concept of body, it means
something, such as a metal that can be known for this. This
concept is not as such but because it contains representations, through
which can refer to objects.

It is because the attribute of a trial may, for example this: _todo
metal is a cuerpo_ (transcendental logic. Analítica momentous. Lib.
1. º Cap. 1. Section 1. ª). [52.] This doctrine Kant is useful
to distinguish two things first: the facts on which it is
based, secondly, the way that explains and examines the consequences
deduced from them.

Of course gets to see a radical difference between the system and
that of Kant Condillac, with respect to the observation of the facts
ideological: while this does not discover another fact in mind that
feeling, no more power than the feeling, that stands as a fundamental
principle, the distinction between sensibility and understanding.

This triumph of the French German philosopher, because he has their
support in the observation of which attests to the experience.

But this victory over the sensual, had obtained before many other
philosophers, particularly the scholastics. Also admitted to these
Condillac and Kant, that all our knowledge comes from the senses,
but had also noticed what you saw was not Condillac and Kant, that
the feelings alone are not sufficient to explain all phenomena of
our spirit and that most sensitive of the power was quite another
to admit, called understanding.

Kant considers the feelings and material supplied to the understanding
that this combines a number of ways, reducing them to concepts. "Thoughts
without issue, he says, are vain, intuitions without concepts are
blind. It is therefore also essential, sensitive to the concepts, ie
give them an object in intuition, and intuition to make intelligible,
subjecting them to terms.

Who does not see in this passage, _The agente_ understanding of
Aristotle, although expressed in other words? Replace _intuicion á
sensible_, _especie sensible_; á _concepto_, _especie inteligible_,
and we find a doctrine very similar to that of the scholastics. Make
an impression. "Kant says: we want the action of the senses, or sense
experience, for us to acquire knowledge. Scholastics say there is
nothing in the understanding, which before was not in the sense:
"nihil est in intellectu, quod non prius fuerit in sensu."
Kant says: sensitive intuition alone, are blind. They say the
scholastics: the species of the imagination, or sensitive, also
called _phantasmata_ are not intelligible. Kant says, it is
essential that sensitive concepts, giving them an object in intuition.
Scholastics say: it is impossible to understand either acquiring
science, either by using the acquired without understanding is
directed to the susceptible species' sine Conversione phantasmata ad.

"Kant says: must be made intelligible intuition, subjecting them
to concepts. Scholastics say is needed to understand the species, so
they can be understanding. Kant says, that through the concepts judge
and the trial is to mediate knowledge of an object and therefore its
representation.

Scholastics say, we know the objects by means of an intelligible
species, which is taken from the susceptible species, and
their representation is intelligible. Kant says, that in any trial
there is a concept applies to many things, which under this
plurality also given a representation, which refers to the object
immediately. They say the scholastics, that the intelligible species
is applicable to many things, because it is universal, and while
absent from a particular and sensitive species, regardless of
the material is _individuantes_, and therefore embraces all the
individual objects in a common representation. to mean that intellectual
act, shape, or whatever you want, with the understanding that
taking advantage of the sensitive intuition, combined with the laws
of order intellectual materials offered by the sensibility, Kant
used the word _concepto, concebir_.

The scholastics also shows that the intelligible species, also
called species _impresa_ and fruitful understanding, resulting in him
an intellectual, which is the _verbo_, internal speech, or
species _expresa_, who also called _concepto_. Kant says, that
knowledge of human intelligence is an understanding of concepts,
not discursive but intuitive, general, and for us no real insight,
but in the area of sensitivity.

Scholastics say that our understanding while we are in this life,
is a necessary relationship to the nature of material things, that
for this reason can not know _primo et per se_, immaterial
substances, resulting not know them well, but some comparisons with
material things, and mainly through removal _per viam remotionis_,
or a negative mode. [53.] The above comparison is interesting
on how to appreciate the points of similarity of two systems that
occupy a distinguished place in the history of ideology: like
that might not have been noticed until now, however, that
jumping into the eyes of the simple reading of the German
philosopher. This is not surprising: the study of the scholastics is
extremely difficult: it must resign itself to the language, style,
opinions, the concerns of the time, and stir a lot of useless land,
to get a little gold.

But Note well that I do not intend to discover the works of the
scholastic system of _crítica of pura_ reason and that I will provide
a little known fact, which is where the good, the fundamental,
it is conclusive that found in the German philosopher of the
sensuality of Condillac, had said centuries before the scholastics.
Will we have to infer from this that Kant's doctrine has been taken
from these authors?

I do not know, but I think one could argue with some merit, not
impossible that the German philosopher, very laborious man of vast
reading, and Felicísimo memory, which had received inspirations
reminiscent transpires in their doctrines. Without
being kidnappers, a writer can dump as their own, ideas that do
not belong to him.

Very often is, that man figure created when simply remember. [54.]

Although the German philosopher agrees with the Scholastics in
observing the primitive powers of our mind, then turns away from
them in applications, while those going to a philosophical dogma,
he is led to a desperate skepticism.

Nothing that the most eminent philosophers had recognized incontestable,
it is argued in the eyes of the German philosopher. Distinguished,
it is true, the order of sensible intelligible; has two
primary schools in our soul, sensitivity and understanding, has
pointed out the line that separates them not dealing with a request
that was never clear, but in contrast, has reduced the sensitive to a
whole world of pure phenomena, explaining the space so that it
is very difficult to avoid the idealism of Berkeley and has also
bypassed the understanding, preventing any communication that
extends beyond sense experience, reducing all elements in it are
blank forms that lead to nothing if they wish to apply to non-sensitive,
that nothing can tell us about the great ontological problems,
psychological and cosmological, these problems, the subject of the
meditations of the most profound metaphysical, and whose resolution
have poured a wealth of sublime doctrines, rightly proud of the
noble human spirit, he knows the dignity of his nature, which shows
their high origin and columbra the enormity of his fate.

[Note 1: speaks of intuitive perception, not of perception in
general.] CHAPTER IX. glance ON THE HISTORICAL VALUE OF PURE IDEAS.
[55.] entered the points of similarity between the system of Kant and
the scholastics, I will indicate the differences, mainly as regards
the application of the doctrine. To give an idea of how serious and
important of these differences, it is sufficient to note the
discrepancy of the results.

Do lie on the Aristotelian principles of a body metaphysical science,
which it considers as the most reliable science, which light
and powerful and rich and bright that leads to all others on the
contrary, Kant, on the same facts, blasting metaphysical science,
deprived of any value to the knowledge of the objects in themselves.
[56.]

It is noteworthy that in this part, Kant is in opposition, not only
in scholastics themselves but also with all most eminent metaphysicians
have preceded it. In that regard, the scholastics in their
favor Plato, Aristotle, St. Augustine, St. Anselm, St.

Thomas, Descartes, Malebranche, Leibnitz, and Fenelon. [57.] The
significance of these issues can not ignore those who do not ignore
the vital which is the human spirit to know if the science is possible
above the purely sensitive, and which man extends its activity beyond
the phenomena that the field offers. There are very deep questions
here that can not be treated lightly. The most difficult and abstruse
of objects and relationships to be considered, the important thing,
the transcendental, the consequences to be reached, as the road
continues, demand will unravel these subjects without any kind
of work to forgive . Well you can ensure that these issues depend
on the preservation of healthy ideas about God and the human spirit,
that is, it can offer high and more important for the consideration
of men. For further elevémonos due regard to the origin of the
divergent philosophical views, to investigate the cause that part of
the same facts can be reached conflicting results. This requires a
clear exposition of the doctrines opposed. [58.] All philosophers
agree to accept the fact sensitivity; on it there can be no doubt:
it is a phenomenon witnessed by a sense of intimacy so palpable,
skeptical that they could not deny the subjective reality of the
appearance, even though it has been called into question its
objective reality.

Idealists in denying the existence of bodies, have not denied their
phenomenal existence, ie its appearance in the eyes of the spirit
in a sensitive manner.

The sensitivity therefore and the phenomena it contains, in all eras
have been a factor early in the ideological and psychological
problems, may have been disagreement about the nature and
consequences of this fact, but not about its existence. [59.] La
ideological history of science presents us with two
schools: one no more than feeling, and explains all the
conditions and operations of the soul by processing the feelings,
the other facts admits primitive than feeling faculties other than
to feel and acknowledge the spirit in a command line that
separates the sensitive intellectual. [60.] This last school
is divided into two others, one of which considered the order-sensitive,
not only as distinct but also separate from the exchanges as
somewhat at odds with him, and accordingly provides that the exchanges
can not receive sensitive, not to be malignant exhalations or dull
their activity or lost.

Hence the system of innate ideas in all its purity, hence the metaphysics
of an intellectual order, entirely free from the impressions sensitive
metaphysics that cultivated by eminent geniuses, has been professed
with sublime exaggeration in modern times by the author _Investigacion
of the verdad_. The other branch of that school, although the
pure exchanges, non-cree to be contaminated by making communication
with the phenomena sensitive before, on the contrary, believes that
the problems of human intelligence, as found in this life, can not
be resolved without regard to such disclosure. [61.]

Experience teaches that there is communication by a law of the human
spirit; deny this law is really a fight witnessed by intimate
sense, to try to destroy it is to undertake a daring enterprise,
it is thrown into a kind of suicide of the mind. For this reason, the
school that I talk to, accept the facts as the expertise they offer,
has sought to explain, noting the
points at which communication can be in the order sensitive and
intellectual without being destroyed or confused . [62.]

The school admits that the existence of both sensitive and intellectual
orders, and while it admits the possibility and reality of their
mutual communication and influence, is a fundamental principle that
the source of all knowledge is the senses, which are exciting causes
of intellectual activity, and as a kind of labor offering materials
then combines them as necessary to lift the building scientist. [63.]

So much for walking chords and Kant scholastics: but then split up
into a point of utmost importance, which is going to opposite.

Scholastics believe in the pure understanding are real ideas
with real objects, which can be run with full security, regardless of
the order sensitive.
For
our eyes are hindered from beholding Christ's body in this sacrament,
on account of the sacramental species veiling it. But the glorified
eye cannot be hindered by anything from seeing bodies as they are.
Therefore, the glorified eye can see Christ's body as it is in this
sacrament.

Obj. 2: Further, the glorified bodies of the saints will be "made
like to the body" of Christ's "glory," according to Phil. 3:21. But
Christ's eye beholds Himself as He is in this sacrament. Therefore,
for the same reason, every other glorified eye can see Him.

Obj. 3: Further, in the resurrection the saints will be equal to the
angels, according to Luke 20:36. But the angels see the body of
Christ as it is in this sacrament, for even the devils are found to
pay reverence thereto, and to fear it. Therefore, for like reason,
the glorified eye can see Christ as He is in this sacrament.

_On the contrary,_ As long as a thing remains the same, it cannot at
the same time be seen by the same eye under diverse species. But the
glorified eye sees Christ always, as He is in His own species,
according to Isa. 33:17: "(His eyes) shall see the king in his
beauty." It seems, then, that it does not see Christ, as He is under
the species of this sacrament.

_I answer that,_ The eye is of two kinds, namely, the bodily eye
properly so-called, and the intellectual eye, so-called by
similitude. But Christ's body as it is in this sacrament cannot be
seen by any bodily eye. First of all, because a body which is visible
brings about an alteration in the medium, through its accidents. Now
the accidents of Christ's body are in this sacrament by means of the
substance; so that the accidents of Christ's body have no immediate
relationship either to this sacrament or to adjacent bodies;
consequently they do not act on the medium so as to be seen by any
corporeal eye. Secondly, because, as stated above (A. 1, ad 3; A. 3),
Christ's body is substantially present in this sacrament. Mate
grips with being the pioneer together. I said, and stem-and-about
any guests. "798" If some strung Asao - Poor! As if we were seeing!
- Shortly before he was cursed as first, then later for spitting
naides comiese. "799" Who is this custom of spitting off the
grill was a mulatto resertor friend who walked in: a devil very
peliador that he was called Barullo. "800" One night as they did
acostumbrao, won the mulatto enojao and shouted: - indino old, I
have to teach, pig, will miss the saliva Asao!

- 801 "I jumped on the game with the knife in his hand; The light
brown puch! In the same hurried him off a stabbing that took
another countryman ..." 802 "And Barullo hot, want to follow the
chacota; he was the speck erizao which started the brawl, the man
appealed and won the door to the gull. "803" That damned custom
graphical then cured, did not return to homes: a cicutal got in there
and hidden happened that night without supper. "804 This speaks here,
and I, who was at his lao relatao what I hear, although he was a
perdulario, said between me:" Do you rosario are launching at the end.
" 805 Then the mayor started to record it had drawing and guascas
thousand sweets and old rags, fearful of anything that served trebejos.
806 off ties cabrestos, coyundas and maniadores, a tip of arriadores,
Cinchona, maneas, a portion of twines muzzles and a lot of shooters.
807 Habia reins of taming brakes, stirrups quebraos; ball, spurs,
lies, some turkeys, a few pots and a great bunch of rings that had
straps cortao. 808 left several bells, alesnas, auctions, knives,
a few high cojinillos old slang, many uneven boots and an infinity
of rings.

There were 809 cans of sardines, some leather vein, some aujeriaos
ponchos, and even appeared as a tremendous Entrevero ink that was
lost in juzgao . 810 Mayor said very seriously: "It's just Cuñat say,
it had been like ant. I give you part of the judge. And then I
come not to pursue the" 811 I was half azorao to see what
happened between them even said that some clothes were his, but
to me it seemed that these were alleluia. 812 And when they had no
place where register of cansaos both huroniar and work in vain,
"Vámosnos," said the mayor, "Then I will bury." 813 And even though
my father was the owner of the anthill, the, there very cariñero,
told me with a very good way: "You'll be the heir and you will
charge." 814 "It settle this matter as it must be, I will appoint
an executor of the surrounding, not quite the same as before so
tangled and ugly. "815" Blessed be God!

"I thought," Ando as a beggar, and I nuembran Todito these guascas heir.
I'd like to know first what you have done my cows! "XVIII 816 is
long, as I said, to have the funeral, I remember when I Aterro: I
started yelling at me to mourn so there solito with the fine and the
dogs. 817 I got the scapular, it hung the sinner, and as there is
infinite mercy in the Lord, begged for the blessed soul of my mentor
before Thu. 818 is not calming my grief to see me so lonely ;
champurrié I would like a rosary juera my father kissing the scapular
that I had my mother. 819 "My Mother," I shouted, "Where will suffer?

I'm crying as virt redamarías for me, if your son saw everything here
is suffering. "820 And while ansi claimed poderme console without the
dogs, but to increase my torment and my
fear, at the same time were to mourn. 821 Freedom of God to these
suffering the same, with the dead and the tears that I swear that
I missed little crazy in the midst of so much horror. 822 They said
then the old ones as they were aware that dogs cry when they see
the devil is, I believed in the testimony as to the credit provided
Inoren. 823 There let the mice eat the guasquerío and just go to
his will is all that güerfano, raising it was that I left my cave
. 824 I knew that after that evening came as a Pioneer and buried,
none accompanied him or even watched it, and the next day dawned
with a hand dejuera.

Contao 825 I have also gaucho who made the funeral-I remember the
terrified, I get this fear that the hand of dijunto it had eaten a
dog. 826 Perhaps I was guilty because I went asustao; knew, after
I came back, and can asigurárselos, the neighbors, fear of not
passing there. 827 She ranch hideout over the dirty vermin-despeluza
the body and the right to alter, "spent the entire night there, an
owl shrieking. 828 For a long time I could not know what happened
to me, that the Trapitos he were pure litter, all night dreaming
of old dogs and guascas. 829 XIX went to my will, and without Mr.

Moor, this time better than the Sun I have passed this time, fear
of another guardian, or brought by the Judge. 830 "I take care
of," she said, "What You Own: everything is kept, cattle and herds,
until you turn 30 years, when you are older EDA." 831 and looking
forward to the While the law sets, poor and without a lizard naides,
walked across the ball without air handle. 832 man I did so under
the toughest rigor; suffer so much pain I learned many things, and
finally vítima I was the most unhappy love. 833 Of the many
alternatives is the hairy man and without help, was Estremo my
delirium, and caused the neglect of my martyrdom a widow.

Llora 834 men without a jundamento ingratitude, without regard to
the accused the evil it causes, and perhaps in his person no worthiness.
835 When I suffered more cruelty of my fate, praying to the divine
power that separates me from the pain, I guess that talked about
a cure such sorrows. I 836 misgivings and fears, but I finally dissolved:
my courage and I went where I guess it was, and if I see a cure,
as he had di.

I called 837, the count of my sentences, Colorao more than a tomato,
and I knot in the throat when hermitaño said: "Brother, you have
done wrong and have done so in a mate." 838 "For freedom from Usté
would have loved captivated." After I began to spend an
ostrich feather, and I said: "De la Cruz recebí the gift of healing."
839 "You must swear," he said, "To all your friends; ansina
which you will soon be offended decubierto and cursed to be both
living and dead." 840 Y I prescribed a hincao in a rag of a widow,
facing a tough plant, so my horaciones, saying: "I have no doubt,
that cures the passions." 841 To the widow, as can a rag manotié
him, looked the tough and at the bottom, since cross I made my
prayer, but friends, or why I cured my ills. 842 prescribed another
occasion I eat Abrojo boy, the cure esplico not me, but by discarding
the evil, the knot in a physical abrojal blood to the nose. medecine
843 And so it seemed to me that healed, at times a bit relieved my
suffering, but if the widow was returned to ignite the passion. 844
Again, consult your know estrordinario received good wages, and
prescribing that I hung my crook three crickets ensartaos as rosary.
845 At last the last time that I see evil as a physical, said: "No,
I know it has not lost his virtuosity; I will give you the healthy,
no triumph that woman. 846 "And Have faith in the remedy because
chacota is not charity, it is not understood or jota.

Without any suspicion, cut to a black flecks ing and do it in
boiling milk. "847 I walked to lack of healing and cursed, and said:"
This I do not remove the passion that dominates me, living as a
chicken, even the nugget. "Ansi 848 let me go until, on one occasion,
the priest threw me a sermon, to cure without doubt, saying that
the widow was the daughter of confisión. 849 And he said these words
that I never Forget "You must know that the fine ordered in his
will that marriage naides you speak hereafter, and she gave the
oath while he was alive." 850 "And we need to implement it, because
God commanded it craves, it is necessary that you do not look again,
because if you miss the two were condemned. "851 With such alvertencia
my redota was completed, she saw the feet of the jack, and I was
away from the widow, but that cure to the harsh with crickets and
flecks. 852 After a friend told me that the judge had told the
priest that I was a hard head and it was a lost boy, I missed the
party, which had no composure.

Perhaps 853 that advice and more without any cause, or that
another reason given, redepente grabbed me and drove me the first
contingent to the border. 854 widows go chasing the cure I wish,
I am in a thousand hardships, but I think that again time to see if
you know what that judge has been made of my rodeo.

XX 855 Martin Fierro and her two children among the audience,
followed joyfully celebrating this feast. Ten years, more terrible,
there was the long absence, and was again found their joy complete.
In that same time that a wine ajuera to take part in what they begged
aue Almita. It was a very handsome stranger regular presence, and
recently that he would pay güeltas bearing. Asiguran some coming
from the border, which had a Pelao pulpero in recent races, but he
despilcho, not betraying a pledge guen: recadito singer was
a faith of their poverty. He asked the blessing that was causing the
party and, without telling her name, frankly declared that the name
of Picardy is the only one who wears it. And to tell her story
to all license requests, saying they would immediately know who
was. I point the guitar, people became attentive, and Picardy
sang on ansi strings tuned: 856-XXI PICARDIE'm going to tell my story
(so forgive me talk), and I will tell you at first, but it is sad
ansi do: I lost my mother before they can cry. I stayed at 857
helplessness, and the man who gave me being I do not know; ansi
therefore graphical small, as the bird flew in search of what to eat.
858 O because of the service, which prohibits many people, or
because of war, which is quite serious because the children of
poverty are many in this land.

Ansi 859, pushed by her, I do not know what would, and even with my
shame, I do this alvertencia: Innocence to be my mother, I called
Picardy. 860 It took me a man at his side to guard the sheep, but all
day and were complaints guascazos as crazy, and I was not even a
few old slang. Denda 861 the night until dawn in the field I had;
lamb that was dying a thousand times-I did-the caranchos what they
ate, but what I paid. 862 rigorous treatment as soon daunt me, and
I bonete pressed looking for the best Finnish and some KITES I went
to Santa Fe . 863 The main pruebista took to teach me, and I was
learning to dance in Maroma, but I made a joke and that I
indijustó. 864 One time I went dancing, because it was the short broken,
putting so much noise that I did lose footing; me over the rope
and I almost descogotó. 865 Ansi found me again not knowing where
to get, and I thought when I become, fortunately mine, I left that
I wanted to pick up some tees. 866 kindred with that, unknown to
me , and fits me right away, and were very good ladies, but the
most rezadoras I've seen in my entire life. 867 With the touch of
rosary prayer and at the beginning, night after night they had a
schedule to say, used to come and pray many of that neighborhood.
868 What happened there I always have to remember, because I start
every step Refalo and wrong, as if I entered the Bad As I drive to
pray. 869 It was like what I Esperia temptation, and never I soon
forget that experience, because I could not say "articles of faith."
lao 870 had at a mulatto who was native there, drive around me was
like a guardian angel; ¡naughty!

, Y was the brown I am tempted ansi. 871 "Pray," my aunt told me,
'Articles of faith. " I speak and I ator; difficulty afflicts
me, I looked at the brown, and I said: "Products of Santa Fe. Coscorrón
accommodates the 872 that I was looking ahead, I wanted to correct,
I looked at the brunette and back again to say, "Products of Santa
Fe. 873 Todito read without difficulty any day and at night I
could not work with a vast, that is why I think any tempt me. 874
One stormy night I saw the brown Chucho and I entered, his eyes scared
me as much, were refocilo: by naming San Camilo, San Camilucho told.
This gives me 875 a foot, and elbow one another: ah, old, by that
token, but sweet heart, I send prayers and to hell with everything!
876 Again, as I always chasing the dark, when I remembered, my
aunts, I had to remove a lock request estirpación of all heresies.

Aquella parda 877 I was fucking miserable half and ansi; had
happened to me, saying "Estirpación," it fits "Entripación" and I
fell silently. 878 The memory and the pain lasted me many days,
I dreamed of walking by the heresies that ilk and called the estirpación
always pray for my aunts. 879 and Dale always rosaries, night
after night without ceasing; dale shuffle always saved Trisagion and
creeds; enriedos these bored me and commanded me to move. 880 XXII
ball as he walked, and poorer than a rat when I began to win silver
I do not know who was armed hubbub: I said: your land, cranes,
even with one leg. 881 was hard enough and the years spent there,
with me what they I was taught capital; As I came, I enrolled in
the National Guard. ejercitao I had the 882 card, the game was my
career and I arranged a true alliance trapisonda with the owner of
a vessel who entered the Peladero. 883 I am concerned Florian hard
on a deck, the box kept in the packet, as new, and who knows half
arroba takes advantage. 884 a big mistake to presume who the lucky,
but other wise it smokes in a two by three peels it, and how long
it does not fly, because you need a pen. 885 With a partner who
understands it is part arming guen, there is the silver of others,
clothing and buttons are always those Riunione Zonza cain with your
hands full. 886 There are many legal pitfalls, player resources,
is not everyone knows what a card is: with a strap or a paste made
it the best. 887 leaves sometimes see the mouth, making that neglects;
the other plays to life and that is Sigur strung, because a sample
letter and other prevented. 888 The Mount, the precautions have not
ever forget, you must also assert their fingers to work, and seek
a seat on it of the light from behind. 889 Pa carving, take the
light from the shadows to alversario; acomódese unlike any game in
cartiao having ejercitao eye is always needed. 890 Opposite opens
theirs, but nothing that is seen by the blind : giving rope, then
left very silly catch-all chapetón created soon that knows a lot
in the game.

There are 891 men very innocent and go to the folders when you
are Azarias happens countless times, lost in-door and three and
giving them mamarán. 892 does not know who wins but not invite
Santa Rita in the folder to a mullite is known to sit, and it was
killing me not, nor could the stains. 893 In the nine games and led
and no small advantage, and if I have to give the remedy is not
bad, because I know half of the draw and the lay of the mouth. 894
The trick, Pintao used to bring in more trouble when you try to
excel, I have as tucked, shot to shot ace of spades, or flower, or
Sigur ENVIT. 895 I can defend my silver and I do like the first:
he has the money needed to play is not stunned, if you assembled a
mountain, took part fondero. 896 A cake as a package, will be
cleaned; graphical quc begin to leave no letter did not remember I
know what is gained or lost in cain on the table. 897 Also for these
moves often seen in a predicament, but I do not engage because they
do it with art, and although they run the discard is not discovered
the secret. 898 If I called the dao, I never used to miss a loaded
long, cruzao for a more lively and to let them rob a kid without
malice. 899 carrying either a smoking because I manage, it was not
handed in the pool, and finally what esplico, I say that even with
PICHICO was able to play. 900 is a vice wrong end of the play, do
not deny everything that the game goes live on fishing for a fool,
and it is known that a robbery is to get to playing a blind man.
901 And I say clearly because I no longer play; and I can asigurar,
as I was of the trade: a service learning is more to learn to work.
902 XXIII A mercachifle Naples who walked with a harpist, fell also
on the list without difficulty, no: it got to thirty, and gave him
a light ball. 903 is the little boy came by, get me out of that
advantage in the reservoir is fitted although he was stolen, and
so blinded Saint Lucia vacated boxes. 904 I have seen afflicted
mourn for the sweets!

"I won with mischief," said gringo lagrimiaba and, while I stood
in a poncho Todito its mercheria. 905 there was sobbing aliviao
weight without consolation, had fallen into the hook, perhaps because
it was Sunday, and that warm gringo no saint in heaven.

But just 906 took advantage of so Fatur lucida, the devil is not
neglected, and I followed the track a very tangles Nato
officer who was heading. 907
ESIG were introduced me to the fine he had incurred, the game was
banned, QUS would take me to the barracks I had to leave with him
all that had alquirido . 908 started taking it between the eyes
albitrariedá, I had won, it's true, resources, yes, but I earned
my Fundão their authority. 909 They said a long time for an offense
went wrong, what a helpful friend composed with the judge, and
shortly thereafter he was an officer. 910 travel in the game
continuously employed; any tough catch, but he brought in a cargo
chickens, turkeys, lambs that there Recoleta. 911 should not be
allowed to abuse such Estremo.

Month after month did the same, and said the neighborhood ansi "Nato
perdulario This has resucitao tithe." 912 The missing guitar and
even request: sit down at the desk I found it a night singing and
said, " Co. .. mo ... quiando wanting to hear a singer.

"I threw the 913 Nato a look that I wanted to
eat, but not stopped singing and became the disengaged, but had
not known what could happen. 914 One evening I was visiting ...
came the NATO, and to give him a hard time juerte said: "... na to
...

Ribi not CEBE with warm water, and I understood the mulatto. 915 It
was all in the juzgao, as is achocó, there no more he said: "The
President is the case I have to take hot, and you know who I am."
916 Because of a woman entangled the question, it was Nato hobby,
she was Women Act, girl with body Gueye, very soft heart. 917 The
mass once found, was made an enchantment, and told him: "I am
interested in relieving their chores, and anxiety, ma'am, if I want
arrimaré the Portuguese. "918 This was the Nato sitting as ornamental,
for she avoided a disorder, seeing that dijusta, he answered:" If
Usté like arrímelos next to the oven. "919 There is the entangled
skein and enemas me , was my enemy, and at that performance, and
just tried to do when a penalty. avenue 920 I looked at me with
those damned grudges, seeking the best of the Pial poderme cast,
and no more lives lial that what the traitor wants. 921 No Matrero
not fall, nor Arisco not tame; ansi, I throw this graphical, not
leaving a corner, pull the San Ramon is going after the trance.

And therefore dimensive quantity itself is a
particular principle of individuation in forms of this kind, namely,
inasmuch as forms numerically distinct are in different parts of the
matter. Hence also dimensive quantity has of itself a kind of
individuation, so that we can imagine several lines of the same
species, differing in position, which is included in the notion of
this quantity; for it belongs to dimension for it to be "quantity
having position" (Aristotle, Categor. iv), and therefore dimensive
quantity can be the subject of the other accidents, rather than the
other way about.

Reply Obj. 1: One accident cannot of itself be the subject of
another, because it does not exist of itself. But inasmuch as an
accident is received in another thing, one is said to be the subject
of the other, inasmuch as one is received in a subject through
another, as the surface is said to be the subject of color. Hence
when God makes an accident to exist of itself, it can also be of
itself the subject of another.

Reply Obj. 2: The other accidents, even as they were in the substance
of the bread, were individuated by means of dimensive quantity, as
stated above. And therefore dimensive quantity is the subject of the
other accidents remaining in this sacrament, rather than conversely.

If soldiers see when they mess: I fly all the clothes seem
flags. 982 However it loaded, and after much walking, when long, long
pa onto the sea. 983 If you have any garment dao Remove it again:
poncho, horse falls, everything has to stop. 984 And these poor
unhappy, when you return to your destination, leaving as few Longines
without having to be met. 985 I had the grief of looking at this
way because most of all is aviao a parsley plant. 986 Aura has
happened recently, with a winter so crude, long walk back to pa
naked and his party. 987 And is it so hard to pass that in that
situation, denied a mancarrón to go home. 988 I treated like an
infidel!

complete slaughter or not giving a paper certifying their service.
989 and must return to what poorer Sun, of course, at the mercy
which wants to seize. 990 And find out after he left the property:
hunger, his wife sold two which is worth ten. 991 And as they
are agreed manganeta playing, not to complain goal, because that
is a waste
of time . 992 And then, if any meat is to request stay leaning to
the point cain it over to the law of vagrancy. 993 And now is the
time, I think, not to give more quota if the government wants people
to the and paid over. 994 sack And so in conclusion, in the midst
of my inorancia that staying here is the birth as a curse. 995 And
I say, but I did not say what fits naides said the province is not
a mother advocates for their children. 996 Mueren hill somewhere
in defense of the law, or even go so that Gueye, plowing pa others
eat. 997 And I say it because ansi springs inside me that is not
patriotism who does not care to compatriot.

XXVIIIth 998 is where I want this language of the devil: I will
give testimony to what I saw at the border. 999 I know that the
only way to have fun, tell ee everything apart, and playing laughing
at everything.

The 1000 has no part in any mattress store, the cat looking jogón and
this is the guy that understands it. 1001 must be understood here,
though I speak thus provides an always looking for your best fit
they can. 1002 I spent all this poor penitent, but I left wizard,
and better in some ways, since 1003 although such deprivation causes
desperation, it is always better than that load jogón gallons.

From 1004 onwards then got something better therefore get higher place
next to the assistant. The 1005 gave many airs: always spent reading,
they said that I was learning to receive pa flair. While the 1006
blunder therefore never saw dijustao; had eyes for the eyes of a Santo.
delicao Very 1007, CUJAE slept in, and I do not know why it would
be, people hated him and called The Witch. 1008 never made another
service or had to receive more commissions rations of food and
services.

I spent 1009 jogón your point that I drew, and with me to fulfill his
commission. milicos 1010 These devils take advantage of all: when we
wipe the riunidos vian snouts. in 1011 and said jogones for
chocarrería " With The Witch and Picardy will go well rations.
1012 Thu I do not so bad, since my official arrangements; tell them
what was going on this particuiar. They said that 1013 was in line
The Witch and the provider, and pior recebía that what it may be
because it was not lerdo. 1014 That amounts to more in dentellón
another hit, and each gave him half ration. 1015 and this made it
the way it does a man live: Signing then the receipt, you know, on
the whole.

But these murmurings 1016 Shortly camp. Let me continue my story, or
history of rations. recebía the 1017 La Bruja, as said in his
opinion, the cargabamos, entriega and everything is in the majority.
1018 draw there in abundance what they get up, and it is right to
be let in as much profit. 1019 Van after the company receives the
Comendante, which, in a rich , wanted to take out soon. liviana
1020 Ansi thing is diminished, of course, then the rest is given
to Officer weeks.

Araña, who scratched you? Another spider like me. 1021 This happens
so small that the sergeant and , prevented a man, always brings the
increase. 1022 This relationship is not just another trifle if
strung, the sergeant called out to handle the distribution.

The 1023 also benefits first, and who knows how upset: naides will
aviriguar if brought more or less. 1024 and have both your mouth and
make fewer stations, which almost no rations when they reach the
soldao. 1025 Everything is blessed bread And that happens usually
have several juatarse to a pucherito. 1026 They say things go under
the ordinance. It can be! But do not reach, So little is what
gives! 1027 Sometimes, I think, and it's very fair to say that only
the crumbs that had arrived Stay in the paintings. Esplican one hell
1028 and that a war is half mad by saying so little because they
are not paid by the Government. But 1029 So I do not understand,
nor aviriguarlo I get, I'm inorante full apriendo nothing and
forgotten nothing. 1030 has to endure one more vile treatment: a
club with a sword in civil military. vistuario The 1031 is another
hell, if give it reaches your hands in winter, summer and summer
to winter. 1032 I do not see the reason or the reason that this is,
but say this is already arreglao graphical inside.

It is necessary to hold 1033 the rigor of its destination, the
Argentine gaucho is not to kill but do pa. 1034 Ansi has to be, no
doubt, and therefore a fool said: "If they kill quickly, the better
they are naked," since 1035 Old misery that ever not been remedied;
whoever is coming back as the leaves. 1036 And men are so bad they
say guen win: "The gaucho is like the wool was clean and up to
sticks."

Y 1037 is forced to bear enllene be the cup but it seems that the
gaucho is a pecao to pay. XXIX 1038 Picardy This counted and then
remained silent, while celebrating all that happy event. But an
accident like that never goes away, in the meantime white people
also took a brown, presumably to be a singer and was guen. And
who do nothing, or neglected to try, because it is well known that
anyone looking suit, sat with quiet, hand to echo estrumento already
hit a ragido: the black was fantastic, and not to leave doubts,
comprised half the chest.

The whole world knew that the intention of brown: the challenge was
clear to Martin Fierro, made with any arrogance of a very haughty
manner. Fierro took guitar, as is always ready and anxious both sang,
amid a great silence: XXX MARTÍN FIERRO 1039 While encordao rings,
while the bar is I have not to stay behind to defend stop, and I
vowed to never have me carry stolen. 1040 is therefore consistent
with the listeners and onlookers cáyense; I apologize to all because
it emphasizes that it is not free who is not
lack of temptation. 1041 To call him a singer when guen is better
than Piore and not the best, with two together, it is the duty of
the singers singing counterpoint. 1042 The man must stand when the
occasion arrives, which is bad refuses, you can do graphical and
many often boasts that pray. 1043 When I was a boy singer (this is
very), but the fate pursues me and becomes constant from that time
onwards I sang my own misery . 1044 And those happy years try to
remember, I will see if I can remember moving so miserable, and who
have confidence tiemple and we will sing. 1045 Tiemple and sing
together, not daunt haggard.

The concurrent wait, because time and not lose , we moan until the
string does not burn candles. 1046 And the singer who is President,
having or not defend him, do not expect to shoot but I know its a
lot: we are in the same Pucho garments up to clarify.

And if you like 1047 will continue to be until the day it was
customary to sing my whole night: there was anywhere, singers
fantasy. 1048 And if anyone does not dare to follow the caravan,
or if singing does not win, it was I say without flattering: sounds
a sponge or put strings of wool. 1049 EL MORENO I'm not, my lords,
but a poor guitar, but I give thanks to God because I can, on the
occasion, a singer who with toparme Esperia this black. 1050 I also
have something white, because I have white teeth; I live among the
people that I take no less: I go outside in payments must be gentle
and cautious. 1051 My mother had ten children, nine very regular,
perhaps that is why I defend the divine providence in the chicken
Guevara The tenth is the biggest. 1052 The black is very loving,
but this does show, nothing matches your love or your tender will;
fs maca the same as: raising children under the wing.

But I have 1053 lived free, and without relying on naides, I
have always crossed the air like a bird without a nest, when I
learned because I taught it a flair. 1054 like any other I know why
thunder rumbles, why are the seasons of summer and winter, I
also know from where they leave the waters of heaven cain. 1055 I
know what war is in the earth to reach the same center, where the
gold is, where is the iron and where they live bellow loe volcanoes
casting game. 1056 I know the sea floor where pejes born, I know
that the tree grows, and that the winds whistle: Inoren things that
whites know that the black poor. 1057 I shot when I shoot; when I
loose, loosen, has not wanted to die of who invite me to sing, to
hear a lame view is the best move.

And if a 1058 misdemeanor committed to come to this Riunione, Joanna
Cantor, I apologize in voice high as ever is not a lack esista
another couple. 1059 What a singer esplica not need to take
and it should be heard but the song is black: apriende which is
inorante, and it is wiser, more apriende .

Under the 1060 deal more thought and there are black life. People hear
quiet, not make me any reproach: the night is also black and has
stars that shine. 1061 I, therefore, his mandao, start to put
out the probe, if you like that answer, but with coarse
language in letur not know Jack, being round. MARTÍN FIERRO 1062 Oh,
black!, if you're so wise I have no misgivings: tragao but you have
the hook and the beat of estrumento when you tell what is the song
of Heaven. EL MORENO 1063 to have my color God made man first, more
haughty whites, even those who invite to the name you forgot and
just call him black. 1064 Paint the black fuck white, black and
white paint it; retinta white face or do not speak against or in
favor of men the Creator did two different classes. 1065 And after
this alvertencia that this comes to hair, See you, gentlemen, if I
can, my little sigún know, with clear answer about the singing of
heaven. 1066 The skies weep and sing as much as silence to mourn
the dew cair sing the winds whistling cry when cain water.

They sing when brama thunder. MARTÍN FIERRO 1067 God made black and
white without declaring the best, sent them the same pain under a
same cross, but also made light pa distinguish colors.

Ansi 1068, none are wrong, not tries to offend at all has been putting
the name is called, takes fame and naides which received at
birth. 1069 ansi And I like a singer who is not peat or wrong, and if
you know the turns projundos of the wise, tell the world which is
the song of the earth. The black 1070 is poor my thoughts, my reason
is weak, but my pa to respond inorancia not arredra: also sparks rock
if the link golpia . 1071 And I'll give my answer sigún few results:
a song form in the earth mother so much pain, the moaning of the
dying and those who mourn born.

MARTÍN FIERRO 1072 Moreno, alvierto well prepared to Traisen throat ;
sos man, and I am horrified to see these primordial; in songbirds
is the only male singer. And since the 1073 World vinistes with
singing but not going to embarrass you, do not you enlarge or
bilge it is necessary to explain to me what is the song of the sea.
1074 EL MORENO songbirds to mimic any pretiende, a gift that
otherwise depends naides be commended, as the magpie apriende
to speak, but only the female apriende. 1075 And help me, my
wits to win this bet, a lot to answer for me. But I must answer;
yoy say in response to what the song of the sea. brama 1076
When the storm, the sea, which holds everything, sings a So terrified,
horn if the world tremble: it complained that they strengthen
the soil. MARTÍN FIERRO 1077 all your wisdom you have to show
this time, only that you win in some baca Santo. The night is singing,
and I've said what. 1078 EL MORENO not gallop that aujeros, told
a handsome cautious humbly replied: night by noises that these songs
have a feeling not knowing where to go. 1079 is the secret mysteries
that hide the darkness, the echoes are responding to the voice which
gives a cry, like an infinite regret that I do not know where it
comes.

In 1080 only the shadows of the sun and penetrates it in different
directions can be heard rumors uncertain: they are the souls who
have died , which we call prayer. moreno MARTÍN FIERRO 1081, by
your answers I will apply the cartabón because you sos and stru
desposición of yapa: neither shall you escape the shadows to give
esplicación. But 1082 is fulfilling its duty to the truth by saying
lial and therefore we will sing alvierto two, leaving the peace of God
the souls of those who have died. 1083 and the council's prudent
not necessary in the game, always has to be restrained the word a
singer. aura And I want you tell me where love is born. 1084 EL
MORENO Escura question as to try to answer, but pretend it is much
of a poor black subsistence, but their principle is inorancia
knowledge. 1085 loves bird in the air that runs through anywhere,
and if at the end of his career is built on a branch, with its
cheerful song called his lover companion. 1086 The fierce love in
his lair, which is king and lord, there launching such juror bellows
that scare, because the beasts did not sing: the fierce roar of
love. 1087 Love in the deep sea fish nice color man loves passionately,
loves all that lives: life of God is received, and where there is
life, there is love.

MARTÍN FIERRO 1088 like me, black Ladino, which just esplicar, and you
begin to comply; aundue at first I laughed, and you want to ask what
we mean by law. EL MORENO 1089 there dotorerías many that I can not
reach, I learned a graphical Inoren I know of no surprise, but not
lead to the man who invite me to sing. 1090 I'm not a singer Ladino
and my ability is very low, especially when I have to sing defend
me in combat, since I like math: if I serve your mouth open. Denda
1091 who choose to your liking, choose the most difficult, but this
just grieves me and answering my way: the law is for everyone but
it applies only to the poor. The 1092 Act is the spider web in my
inorancia what esplico. No matter the rich man and never to send the
item; ruempe because the bug only enrieda a big boys. Act 1093 is like
rain: it can never be partners, which holds complains, but the issue
is simple: the law is like a knife, no ofiende to whoever handles.
1094 often called the sword and the name comes well, that govern where
they have to slash: le cai who is cut down and not see who. 1095 There
are many who are Dotor, and no doubt his charities, but I am a black
and rough but understand little of this, I daily see the double
standard applied.

MARTÍN FIERRO 1096 Moreno, I say, and know your size, you aprovechao
life, and I am glad of this encounter, I see you have capital
in this pa . 1097 aura And I will say, because it is my duty (and
does honor to the truth who duebla truth) that you are in darkness
and inside juera clear. 1098 It has been said that never abuse your
pacencia, fair and correspondence, if want to ask something, you
can begin to point, as already have my license. 1099 EL MORENO
language barriers do not mine, not going to embarrass you, no one
is right before wrong, and though the reputation is at stake, the
pleasure that should not be afraid of sailing out to sea. 1100 I
will make my questions as to whether NNE invites and mature in the
game if I get a esplicación on time and measurement, weight and
quantity.

Yours 1101 victory will be the answer if you know, I owe state
with clear, no surprise, because no man aura until I was able
esplicar. 1102 Inoren what I know and therefore is not in my books-and
their response will serve government, so that the Lord has brought
to the sung.

MARTÍN FIERRO 1103 brown, as you let cair carancho in its nest,
I see that you are forewarned, but I am also prepared, if you will
answer and if you give up . 1104 One is the sun, one world, alone
and only the moon is anxious to know that God has not raised any
quantities. 1105 Being of all beings are only the unit, the rest
was raised after the man who learned counting. verernos EL MORENO
1106 to another question if a response is accomplished: ei that
life has grown so has to have in your file, but I had reason to
Inoren to form the measure.

MARTÍN FIERRO 1107 listening closely to what I inorancia argued:
the man invented his own good; 1108 and wonder why you do not,
presumably because it is easy: God did not measure but that man's
life. 1109 EL MORENO your fault if you do not know the winner I
confess, I must learn all that is devoted to singing and aura that
I want esplique which means weight.

MARTÍN FIERRO 1110 God keeps its secrets it holds the secret, and
ordered that any weight to fall into the earth; 1111 sigún buying
me that there are graphical goods and evils, Thurs weight to weigh
the sins of mortals.

EL MORENO 1112 in response to this question has the winner (I
give the right to better) and when respóndame: when God formed by that
time and split it? MARTÍN FIERRO 1113 Moreno, I say, I know sigún
reaches the delay time is only what is to come, 1114 was never
principle and never finish, because time is a wheel. And is eternal
wheel. And if 1115 divides man, only he does, I feel, to know what
you have lived or left to live.

Since 1116 I have given you my answers, but who stands out not win if
you have other questions or something you Forget, I am always at your
mandao to take us out of doubt. 1117 does not carry nor arrogant
boast, but has not missed when they fight costancia and invites you
to sing about things of the stay. 1118 Ansi prepares brown, as you
know enclosure, and that your language is wrong, I have to say what
they empriende, which depends on time, in the months Erre train .

From 1119 EL MORENO inorancia none of naides be abused, and although
I can bend all to have more art, I will not leave me anywhere
machetiar. reclarao that in 1120 I'm letur round as jota not embarrass
my redota, I say it clear: I do not like me to play the ball naides.
guen Act 1121 is the most lerdo should lose the race; ansi happens
to anyone, when competition is a singer with a half-size class
whole. 1122 Have not seen in the middle of the field to the man
that he lost, giving güeltas distressed, not knowing where rumbiar
ansi often turn to overcome a poor singer. 1123 trees creak Also
if the wind whipping, and if my complains bitterly springs, is that
it is very long and very sad night for redota. 1124 and graphical
now on, I witness to Heaven to say without fear that if my heart
becomes inflamed.

Obj. 3: Further, breaking and mastication are seemingly of the same
object. But it is Christ's true body that is eaten, according to John
6:57: "He that eateth My flesh, and drinketh My blood." Therefore it
is Christ's body that is broken and masticated: and hence it is said
in the confession of Berengarius: "I agree with the Holy Catholic
Church, and with heart and lips I profess, that the bread and wine
which are placed on the altar, are the true body and blood of Christ
after consecration, and are truly handled and broken by the priest's
hands, broken and crushed by the teeth of believers." Consequently,
the breaking ought not to be ascribed to the sacramental species.

_On the contrary,_ Breaking arises from the division of that which
has quantity. But nothing having quantity except the sacramental
species is broken here, because neither Christ's body is broken, as
being incorruptible, nor is the substance of the bread, because it no
longer remains. Therefore the sacramental species are broken.

_I answer that,_ Many opinions prevailed of old on this matter. Some
held that in this sacrament there was no breaking at all in reality,
but merely in the eyes of the beholders. But this contention cannot
stand, because in this sacrament of truth the sense is not deceived
with regard to its proper object of judgment, and one of these
objects is breaking, whereby from one thing arise many: and these are
common sensibles, as is stated in _De Anima_ ii.

Others accordingly have said that there was indeed a genuine
breaking, but without any subject. But this again contradicts our
senses; because a quantitative body is seen in this sacrament, which
formerly was one, and is now divided into many, and this must be the
subject of the breaking.

But it cannot be said that Christ's true body is broken. First of
all, because it is incorruptible and impassible: secondly, because it
is entire under every part, as was shown above (Q. 76, A. 3), which
is contrary to the nature of a thing broken.

It remains, then, that the breaking is in the dimensive quantity of
the bread, as in a subject, just as the other accidents. And as the
sacramental species are the sacrament of Christ's true body, so is
the breaking of these species the sacrament of our Lord's Passion,
which was in Christ's true body.

Reply Obj. 1: As rarity and density remain under the sacramental
species, as stated above (A. 2, ad 3), so likewise porousness
remains, and in consequence breakableness.

Reply Obj. 2: Hardness results from density; therefore, as density
remains under the sacramental species, hardness remains there too,
and the capability of sound as a consequence.

Reply Obj. 3: What is eaten under its own species, is also broken and
masticated under its own species; but Christ's body is eaten not
under its proper, but under the sacramental species. The films
have been drawn and modeled on the stone by D. Carlos Clerico,
fellow artist to become outstanding in their field because they are
young, have a school, artistic feeling and love of work. The engraving
was executed by Mr Supote, which owns the art, new and still
somewhat widespread among us to set in metal sheets as the skill
of the lithographer has modeled in the rock, imagining or creating
positions to interpret clearly and feeling the scene described in the
verse. It has been omitted, then no sacrifice to make a publication
in the most artistic outsiders. As for his literary
part, only saying that we should not lose sight of in judging the
flaws of the book, which is a true copy of an original that has and
will repeat that there are many defects in order to make it clear
and obvious imitation of those who are.

A book to awaken the intelligence and love of reading in a population
almost primitive to serve as a useful recess, after the tiring tasks
thousands of people who have never read, you must strictly adhere
to the usages of those same readers pay to interpret their ideas
and feelings in their own language, in their usual phrase, in its
most general form, even if incorrect; with its images of a higher
profile, with its twists and more features, so that the book is
identified with them so close and intimate, that reading is not
only a natural continuation of their existence.

Only then passed without violence work to the book, and only then,
that reading can be enjoyable, interesting and useful.

I wish there were one book that will have the happy privilege
to move from hand to hand in this vast population scattered in our
vast and in a form nice done, which ensures its popularity,
provide a pleasant pastime to its readers, but - Teaching honored
that the work is the main source of all welfare-improving and
exalted moral virtues that are born of natural law and which serve
as the basis all the social virtues inculcated in the men's sense
of veneration of the Creator, are inclined to do good Afeando
widespread and ridiculous superstition born of ignorance, a deplorable
tendency to regulate and dulcificar habits, teaching by skillfully
hidden restraint and appreciation of yourself, respect others,
stimulating show of strength by the bitter misfortune, suggesting
persistence in the well and resignation in the work-to remind parents
that the duties imposed on them for the nature with their children,
putting before them the evil that produces its oblivion, thereby
inducing them to meditate and calculate for themselves the full
benefits of compliance-to teach kids how to respect and honor the
authors of their day - encouraging the husband love his wife, to
remind the saints of his state duties, which makes the happiness
of the home, teaching us all to deal with mutual respect, building
on all these ties of family and sociability - Affirming in people
a love of freedom, depart from the respect that is due to the higher
magistrates, and men with little teaching moral notions, which must
be humane and forgiving, charitable to the orphan and the helpless,
faithful to the friendship; pleasing to the favor received; enemies
of idleness and vice, in accordance with changes of fortune,
truth-loving, tolerant, fair and wise ever.

A book that all of this, more than this, or part of this show without
saying, without revealing his claim, leaving it without even knowing,
it would be a good book, and certainly that would raise the moral
and intellectual level of its readers but naides read by anyone,
for resertor deserter, even by itself, or other similar barbarisms ,
whose amendment was reserved to the school, called to fill a vacuum
that the poem must respect, and to correct errors and defects of
phraseology, which are also elements that must be seized by race
and art to fight evil and moral core transcendent, discussed under
the viewpoint of a high and pure philosophy.

The progress of the speech is not the basis of social progress, and
a book that sought to as high end, you should dispense entirely on the
delicate forms of culture of the sentence, subject to the overriding
demands of their moralizing purpose, which would in that case, the
success sought. The characters should be placed on stage to speak
in their own language and peculiar, with its originality, its
natural grace and their flaws, because deprived of that dress, it
would be equally typical of his character, which alone makes them
sympathetic, retaining imitation and verisimilitude in substance
and form.

Entra also the choice in this part of the prism through which you are
allowed to study their individual times. And accepting such defects
as an element, is also idealized, it is believed, would inspire
others to think likewise, and fall, prepare and retain small
monuments of art, to those who have to study tomorrow and lift the
large monument the history of our civilization. The gaucho do not
know even the elements of their own language, and it would be
an impropriety at the very least, a lack of truth and very objectionable,
that anyone who has not ever open a book, follow the rules of art
Blair, Hermosilla or the Academy.

The gaucho do not learn to sing. His only teacher was the wonderful
variety in nature and majestic panoramas stretching before their
eyes.

Because he sings in a moral impulse, some metrics, of which dominates
in its rhythmic organization, and that leads to estraordinario Estremo
that all his sayings, his sayings treble its common proverbs are
expressly octosyllable well in two verses measured, accented with
inflexible regularity, harmony-filled, deep feeling and intention.
That's very difficult but absolutely impossible to distinguish and
separate what the author's original thoughts, and which are collected
from sources popular.

I am not aware that it exists or has existed a race of men approximate
to nature, whose proverbial wisdom fill all the conditions of our
rhythmic proverbs gauchos. What is unique, and how worthy of
observation, hear our most uneducated countrymen , in two verses
expressly clear and simple, high moral and thoughts that most ancient
nations, India and Persia, as the priceless treasure kept his proverbial
wisdom, the Greeks listened with reverence to his wise mouth
deeper in Socrates, founder of morality, Plato and Aristotle, among
Latinos spread gloriously famed Seneca, that the Northern men gave
place in his robust and vigorous literature, that modern civilization
repeats through their moral clarified and are mainly embodied in
the codes of all the great religious reformers of mankind.
Undoubtedly, there are some resemblance intimate, somewhat mysterious
identity between all races of the globe than just studying in the
great book of nature, because than the deductible, and are deducted
for more than three thousand years, the same education, the same
natural virtues, expressed in prose, for all men of the world, and
in verse by the gauchos who inhabit the vast and fertile region
which is estienden on both sides of silver. the human heart and
morality are the same in all centuries.

Civilizations differ fundamentally. "Never will, says Dr. Don VF
Lopez in his preface to neurosis, a teacher or a professor European
Bracma of a" well be: but would not offer the same difficulty making
a gaucho Bracma filled with a wisdom ; Bracmas if they do take
all his science in his proverbial wisdom, as the wise look of the
conservative National Library in Paris, in "The wisdom of all nations"
which aired on the new American world Pazos Kanki. gaucho saturated
with this spirit, there are some poets among us in a very cultured
and correct, and not to short the genre, because it is a legitimate
and spontaneous production of the country, and that really does not
manifest itself only in the field of florido literature. conclude
here, leaving the consideration of benevolent readers, which I can
not say this preface without estender too little needed in the songs
of a humble son of the desert.

Be indulgent public with him! And accept this humble production,
which puts it as our best and oldest friend. * * * * * The
originality of a book must start in the prologue. Nobody is surprised
therefore, and the means or objects that embraces and must finish
it by making public our appreciation to the distinguished writers
who have recently honored by your decision, as Mr D. José Tomás
Guido, in a letter he received deferential beautiful La Tribuna and
La Prensa, and reproduced in several newspapers columns of the Republic.
- Dr. D. Adolfo Saldias, meditated in a work on historical and social
gaucho. - Dr. D. Miguel Navarro Viola, in the latest installment
of the popular library, stimulated with honorable terms, to continue
the work started.

Several newspapers in the city and countryside, as The Herald, Blue,
La Patria, Dolores, The West Mercedes and others, have also just
acquired titles to our gratitude, we maintain a sacred debt. conclude
this brief overview to the city of Rosario, which has announced MARTIN
FIERRO DE LA TOUR, with hope that God will know whether to be met.
Close this preface by saying that this book is called THE RETURN OF
MARTIN FIERRO, because the title gave the public before, long before
I had thought about writing it, and there will be running with my
land paternal blessing. JOSÉ HERNÁNDEZ. La Vuelta de Martín Fierro
Martin Fierro 396 Warning I ask the silence and quiet attention,
which I this time, if memory helps me to show them that I was missing
the best story. 397 comes as an when sleeping returns from the
desert, I will see if esplicarme success among people, and if so
bizzarra feeling guitar I wake from my dream. 398 I feel my chest
trembles, my reason to be troubled, and the viguela is to implore
the soul of a wise move to come to my lip and encouraged my heart.
399 If I fail to thirty-one of thirty fixed me planto and advancement
because I got this confidence in myself, with the water of baptism,
the power to sing. 400 Both the poor and the rich have the right
to give me, and if they listen to what esplicaré my way, I have not
RAIRO of all: some have to mourn.

Much has to be 401 which had to suffer, and begin by asking how I did
not hesitate, because the witness should be believed if they do not
pay to lie. I 402 Thanks to the Virgin, I thank the Lord, because
in the meantime and having lost so much rigor, not lost my love for
singing and my voice as a singer. 403 That song gave all living the
Eternal Father, singing around the table as you do it only because
the two do not have the voice that has no blood. pueblero the 404 Sing
... And Pueto; gaucho singing ... And, oh Jesus!, I look like ostrich,
its inorancia the surprise, but always serve to distinguish the
shadows light. 405 The field is inorante, the village men stru;
me that I was born in the field say that my some songs are for ...
Sounds, and other ...

Intention. 406 singers I know it was a pleasure listening, but do
not want to say and have fun singing, but singing I believe that
is my way of singing. 407 What is far down this road knows desembucha,
and although my charity Not much, this prevents me, I was the heart
which is with pleasure that I heard. 408 What this paint brush or
the time to delete it, none has been encouraging the correct flat paint
who does not have won but who knows paint. 409 listeners and do
not think that I know of the brag, but I knew then, without having
repented, it is sin to say certain truths. 410 But I am in my way
and nothing me ladies, I tell the truth, of naides am adulón; aqui
no imitations, this is pure real. 411 And I want to amend a lot you
should know, has much to learn that I can hear, has a lot to
chew on that I want to understand .

More than 412 I and all I hear, most things that deal more than
they tell, my songs are long, many have had to chew to get this bravado.
413 complaints flowing from my chest, sparks a lament sense and is
therefore what I have suffered and wrongs of such a size that
challenge every year to bring oblivion. 414 Ya see how if I wake up
the ball and do not be surprised if more fire naides encourage me,
because I want to raise their premiums as pa air play. 415 And with
the tight rope that graphical tone choice, I did not loosen the
handle while the voice is not lost, if not cut the cord or the plug
does not yield. Although I broke 416 by the estrumento not to try,
I have so
much to tell and things of that caliber, that God wants to be free
that taught me to temper. 417 In the example I naides, naides to
go next, should I say soon, and the Gueye was in that plant, you
must sing, when you sing with all the voice he has. 418 I saw the
ball rolling and do not want to stop, to shoot so much I came to
see if I can live and let me work. 419 is the lead and also scan
mansera Pial; corrode in a rodeo, working in a yard, I will sit on
a pole so that even in a Bagual. 420 And if he craves attention
enpriéstenmé me not want to honor, I'll have to shut because the
songbird will never stop singing in that tree does not flower.

Trapitos 421 that are golpiar here and not get up if they want
desembuche: I have to tell them while I listen command.

Déjenme 422 have a drink, these
are my other forty this parched throat, and I am not ashamed,
because the old one, as the oven is heated by mouth.

Triste II 423 and my guitar sounds sunt requires none joys but wait
lamenting that in hard torments born, grows, lives and dies. 424
It is sad to leave their payments and others taking off grounding
the soul full of sorrow and pain, but we take the rigors pampean
as the sand. 425 Go to cross the desert so that even an outlaw,
leaving here in oblivion, as we left, his wife in the arms of another
and lost their babies. 426 How many times across this vast plain,
to be in such trouble and so far among them is a strip between the
weeds to mourn bitterly!

427 On the banks of a stream is going solo in thinking a thousand
things, and güelta a sudden, I did see my china and I hear that
name. 428 And drink the water serenita pingo drink to sip while no
one's going to praise without eating, for thinking of his wife,
their children and their payment. 429 Cruz to remember that we shot
in the desert pampa we come , dropping by the end of the trip, some
awnings of savages, we find the first. 430 The unfortunately we go
on: we arrived at a bad time, were trying to parliament and an
invasion Indus suspicion in that case until its breath. 431 It was
put together a tremendous fuss when we saw, we could not quell this
dangerous hotbed, we took fire and we wanted to Lancia. 432 They
took the horses to a very few minutes, were irresolute, who knows
what wanted!

For eyes we Spears got those gross. 433 and in turn make your tongue
flick gestures and prances; unleashed a ball and we came away, no
longer believed to save lives or carambola. 434 Alla no mercy or
hope to have, the Indus is think this should always kill because
the blood does not like to see her baby face. 435 Cross was ready
to die movie and invited me.

"hold," I said, "The fire to burn us."

Less Hazard feared it won the most times. 436 should be more cautious
when the danger is greater; always saves alvertencia better walk
with caution because it is not at odds with the value. 437 come to
the end lenguaraz to trairnos forgiveness , told us: "Salvation is
to be a chieftain, who sends me esplique that this is a Malone."
438 "I told the others that you will be captivated by some cain if
living in the hands of Christians, rescue her siblings with these
two fugitives. "439 They returned to parliament to try to alliances,
or perhaps the killings, and under their detail, they lie on a horse
fence spears.

Among the 440 center and an Indian man lengüetiar there is a long,
who knows what they charge!

But all listened attentively as Riunione least three
hours long. 441 hit three at the end and beginning another yell
and dance, to show their strength and demonstrate rider, gave verging
freight charge revoliando and spear. 442 Runs after the row in front
of each indus stops, threatens face to face and in his juri, damn
that accompanies your cry of the cimbrar Tacuara. 443 is what turns
a fire over the same ugly war between a cloud of land there was a
cavalcade of horses, Indians and spears, with which terrified
screams. 444 seems a dance of fierce sigún so I guess it was huge
whirlpool, terrifying voices , until the end of two hours was
appeased that whirlwind. 445 Night formed in the fence and we were
downtown, to show they wanted to take away all hope, eight or ten
rows of lances alrrededor we did.

There were 446 obstinacy watchful care when you snore seemed "Huinca,"
shouted one, and all the whole line "Huinca, Huinca" repeated. 447
But the Indus is sleepy and has a dream projundo; Roncador is no
second and is confident that his life hoarse that although a leg
lying güelta of the world. 448 We aviriguaban all as one that is
prevented, because they should always know that juerzas walk, where
they are, who they send, who have horses and weapons. 449 In each
answer our one makes a esclamación, then continued in those ferocious
Indians, hundreds and hundreds of voices are repeating the same.
450 And that voice of one that starts with a growl, be bequeathed
to yell across the crowd, and acquire ansi Usually hitting the
bellows.

III 451 Thus we are heading in empeñaos; not be taken for loss that
is hard luck, or that thinking about death, but on life support.
452 hardens the heart, not afraid of danger, find opportunities
there swear by the two: to respect only to God, of God down to none.
453 The evil tree that grows and is cut to sprout; rookie or expert
people have infinite ways; land is the mother of them all, but also
poisonous. 454 More wise man suffers quiet all its evils, I always
find the same in any way that I choose, and unfortunately have
children, although she has no mother. 455 And as you touch the
inheritance anywhere finds its ruin: What luck for the man can not
avoid, because the thistle is to prick with thorns is born. 456 is
the fate of the poor continued zafarrancho and spends as carancho
because evil is never quenches, where the wind blows the straw
misfortune ranch. 457 But who sends commands too grief consolation:
the light that shines down from heaven to the most encumbrao, and
even more hair delgao makes its shadow on the floor. 458 But even
if one suffers hardship as a torment, do not ever get off the front
for any reason, the cottonwood is most proud and moans constantly.
459 The Indus passes life stealing or missing belly, the only law
is the spear to be submitted, what is lacking in knowing what
supplements to descondianza. 460 Out of thing attached to an Indian
charity: it is hard with the captive, give it a horrible deal, he
is cunning and wary, is bold and vindictive. 461 Do not ask for or
to wait tolerance; inorancia moved by his pure and desconfiaos, we
were separated under surveillance subtle. 462 I could not have any
conversation with Cruz: Do not give us time, we are treated as
unrelated as two years, less hard this separation. 463 Relate extend
our hardships were the case.

But then the term _whereunto_
has the proper nature of its own substance; whereas the term _whence_
does not remain in its own substance, but only as to the accidents
whereby it comes under the senses, and can be determined in relation
to the senses. Hence the term _whence_ of the conversion is
conveniently expressed by the demonstrative pronoun, relative to the
sensible accidents which continue; but the term _whereunto_ is
expressed by the noun signifying the nature of the thing which
terminates the conversion, and this is Christ's entire body, and not
merely His flesh; as was said above (Q. 76, A. 1, ad 2). Hence this
form is most appropriate: "This is My body."

Reply Obj. 1: The ultimate effect of this conversion is not a
_becoming_ but a _being,_ as stated above, and consequently
prominence should be given to this in the form.

Reply Obj. 2: God's word operated in the creation of things, and it
is the same which operates in this consecration, yet each in
different fashion: because here it operates effectively and
sacramentally, that is, in virtue of its signification. And
consequently the last effect of the consecration must needs be
signified in this sentence by a substantive verb of the indicative
mood and present time. But in the creation of things it worked merely
effectively, and such efficiency is due to the command of His wisdom;
and therefore in the creation of things the Lord's word is expressed
by a verb in the imperative mood, as in Gen. 1:3: "Let there be
light, and light was made."

Reply Obj. 3: The term _whence_ does not retain the nature of its
substance in the _being_ of the conversion, as the term _whereunto_
does. Therefore there is no parallel.

Reply Obj. 4: The pronoun "My," which implicitly points to the chief
person, i.e. the person of the speaker, sufficiently indicates
Christ's person, in Whose person these words are uttered, as stated
above (A. 1).

With Efte walking defpues hafta vn dia de San Juan, who arrived at the
Appalachian vifta, so that the Indians of the Earth we fintiefen:
We thank you very much to God for us so close to him, creiendo
what was true of the land Havi we said, that there faith that
eventually the great work Havi
pafado, afi by bad, i long way to go, for the great hunger that
Havi padefcido, because although sometimes hallabamos corn, but he
FIET i eight leagues toparlo so i Havi among many nofotros that
much beyond the canfancio i hunger, were made in the sores efpaldas
carrying weapons acueftas, so that other cofas faith ofrefcian.

But to see us get where defeabamos, where both i maintenance, we
Oro i said Havi Havi, parefciònos that faith Havi we removed much
of the work, i canfancio.

_CAP. VI. As we reach Apalache._ arrived we went to Appalachian
vifta of the Governador command that I tomafe nine horse, fifty
Laborers i, i entrafe in Pueblo, so i deal with the host Veedor, i
I i entered are not fine Mugeres i Guys, that man, in the way, no
eftaban in Pueblo, AI a little more than walking by nofotros went,
i start fighting, arrows, i killed the horse of the suppliers, but
at the end huieron i dexaron us.

There are lots of corn that eftaba AI cogerfe, FeCO much that i
had locked. Cueros Hallamosles many deer, including some blankets
i Hilo small i no good with that Mugeres covering some fus perfonas.
They had many Vafos for grinding corn. In the small village Havi Forty
Cafas, i built baxas i in sheltered places, for fear of large tempeftades
that continually fuel that haver Earth. The building is made of
straw, i eftàn enclosure efpefo Monte mui, i Arboledas great, i
Pielagos lot of water, where many ai, i so large fallen tree, that
pregnant, i fon caufa that faith can not walk through there, so
much work, i risk. _CAP. VII. The way it is Tierra._ Earth, the
greater part defde where defembarcamos, hafta Efte People i
Appalachian Earth is flat, the oil sand, i land, for all her great
ai mui Trees, i Montes Claros, where ai Nogales, Laureles i, i
others, who called faith Liquidambares, Cedros, Savina, Encinas i,
i Pinos i Robles, Palmitos baxos, as those of Caftilla.

Throughout her many gaps ai large and small, some of pafar mui
trabajofas, partly because of the great depth, partly because so many
trees as they eftàn fallen. The fuel of which is sand, which i
in the Appalachian Region are, fon mui hafta bigger than those
in there. Ai EFTA State in many Maìçales, i Cafas eftàn so efparcidas
through the countryside, in the manner of the eftàn Gelves. Animals
they saw fon Venados in three ways, Rabbits, Hares i, Ofos, Lions i,
i Salvaginas other, between the animal vn quale we brought the
children in NPV Bolf, who is in the belly, all the time i fon that
small, brings them there, that faben hafta eat bufcar i fi bufcando
Acaf eftàn out to eat, i go people, the mother does not hafta huie
that has collected in fu Bolf.

On Earth there is cold mui, mui is good for paftos won: ai
Birds in many ways: in bulk Anfares; ducks, mallards, mallard,
Doral, Garçotas i, i Garças, Perdices: we saw many falcons, Neblìs,
Gavilanes , Efmerejones i many other birds. Defpues two hours we
arrived at Appalachian, Indian, who fled there Havi came to nofotros
Peace, asking to Mugeres fus, i Sons, i gave nofotros faith; Falvo,
the Governor stopped vn config Cacique of them, which caufa was
efcandaliçados where they were, then one day i bolvieron War: so i
hard i prefieça we undertook, which came to us to put the fire Cafas
that eftabamos, but as falimos, huieron i acogieronfe the gaps ,
which had close mui; efto by i, i by the great Maìçales that Havi
not hurt them podimos, which kill WNV à Falvo.

Figuiente Another day, another other Pueblo Indians, who eftaba
the other hand, came to nofotros i acometieronnos of mifma art that
the first i of mifma faith efcaparon way, i also killed WNV them.
People in Eftuvimos Efte i twenty five days, in which three entries
hecimos the earth, i hallárnosla Poor People mui, mui bad i ride,
for the ill Paphos, Montes i, i Lagunas, who had.

Cacique to ask that Havi arrested them, I to the other Indians, who
brought with nofotros, who were neighbors, i Enemies of them, by the
way, i people of the earth, i the quality of the people, by the i
Baftimentos, all other i cofas it?
Hence it is that the priest pronounces all these words, under
the same rite and manner, namely, holding the chalice in his hands.
Moreover, in Luke 22:20, the words that follow are interposed with
the preceding words: "This is the chalice, the new testament in My
blood."

Consequently it must be said that all the aforesaid words belong to
the substance of the form; but that by the first words, "This is the
chalice of My blood," the change of the wine into blood is denoted,
as explained above (A. 2) in the form for the consecration of the
bread; but by the words which come after is shown the power of the
blood shed in the Passion, which power works in this sacrament, and
is ordained for three purposes. Finally, draw attention to two
beautiful rooms that mimic the architecture of _Renacimiento_, -
regular, symmetrical, too imitative, cultured and sensitive but not
spontaneous, - full of profiles of mythological reliefs, but without
daring, real inspiration of life. The transition from one to another
of these rooms primarily carved and painted, so masterful imitation,
is unforgettable: the impression left is that deep - it is a mixture
of admiration and sadness for what past and silent veneration of
holy taxed the genius of humanity itself, and ultimate hope in
the progress and the good of the future, based on the idea of
indefinite renewal of the vital forces of the human species. There,
in that admirable series of galleries (reproducing cosmopolitan art
from India and China to Britain, and from Egypt to the homeland
of the Aztecs or the Incas) - cree visitors to attend a fair held
by all the literary styles designed by the genius of the people ;
go in droves to spend all the centuries with its own creations and
mythology, and I want to decrypt in the reliefs and inscriptions,
in the mosaics and arabesques, in the inscrutable hieroglyphs and
plastic remodeling in the mystery of the civilization that brought
by the time, playing or going to spread the movement of ocean, wave
and wave reflection in reflection, without finish ever, because it
involves the idea of the infinite, the divine and supreme, invisible
God and Creator!

If many the halls of the palace are dedicated to the worship of art
and history, others, such as spacious gardens, real miniature
forests, which reproduce the vagaries of this sumptuous and fragrant
architecture of nature, called vegetation. How many primary agglomerates
there! It crosses a presto European garden literally fraught with
refined treasures of gardening, where the rose and camellia flowers
alternating with a thousand other educated with the most careful and
delicate art, as it goes by in the midst of a vast garden of
Colombia, under the broad leaf plantain, from sugar cane and palms
_chontas, hacumas_ and coconut, and rosándose strains with fragrant
pines, lianas and flexible carriers, parasitic nicest, most elegant
tree ferns, and many plants of extremely capricious beauty, which
grows at an artificial temperature itself and the round bed widths
mossy ponds where the fish are shaking the torrid zone between
aquatic herbs interwoven capriciously.

But there is primarily a huge room, imitating nature of India,
which produces the most vivid dream. Streams, fountains, small
waterfalls, mossy rocks and dark, everything is prepared with careful
imitation there, populated the scene of the special plants and more
interesting. In the background lie the huge snake coiled at the
foot of the crag in the middle of the leaves; the terrible sleeping
lion at the entrance to his dark cave, the panther quietly licking
their calves, with the voluptuousness of the heat of that climate of
fire, the shade tree Hindustani.

This is what the Apostle premises when he says (Rom.
9:15): "Therefore He is the Mediator of the New Testament, that by
means of His death . . . they that are called may receive the promise
of eternal inheritance." Consequently, we say here, "The blood of the
New Testament," because it is shown now not in figure but in truth;
and therefore we add, "which shall be shed for you." But the internal
inspiration has its origin in the power of this blood, according as
we are justified by Christ's Passion.

Reply Obj. 4: This Testament is a "new one" by reason of its showing
forth: yet it is called "eternal" both on account of God's eternal
pre-ordination, as well as on account of the eternal heritage which
is prepared by this testament. Moreover, Christ's Person is eternal,
in Whose blood this testament is appointed.

Reply Obj. 5: The word "mystery" is inserted, not in order to exclude
reality, but to show that the reality is hidden, because Christ's
blood is in this sacrament in a hidden manner, and His Passion was
dimly foreshadowed in the Old Testament.

What I would like first fall, even if I could pay - Adrast. And
what is that? Johann. Swearing from the begging. Adrast (with a
bitter contempt). Rogue! Johann. How? What am I? Such a fraternal
Council - Adrast. Yes indeed a fraternal Council, you only your
brothers, your people the same, should give. Johann. Are you Adrast?
I have you probably never hear the mock swearing?

Adrast. About the swearing, as swearing, but not as a mere Beteurung
of his word. This must be an honest man holy, and though neither God
nor punishment. I would be eternally ashamed of my signature to have
denied, and without contempt of myself, never again able to write
my name.

Johann. But beliefs about superstition. At a door have it herausgejagt,
and the other to let him back inside. Adrast. Hush! I like your
profane chatter not listen. Araspen I want attention. I want
him to do presentations, I want him to say my marriage, I want
him on interest rates promise .-- I meet him but probably still
in the post home? Johann. Perhaps .-- As he goes, the merciful
chute. The mouth is big enough for him, but when it comes to ways; the
point that he is what he believes will prove with deeds, as the
old woman trembles!

What a lucky man, after his conviction also can live! So he has still
something of it. I should be in its place .-- But I must just
see where he remains. (End of the first lift.) Second Elevator
First appearance Juliane. Henriette. Lisette. Lisette. Above all
else, my love Mamsell before I dispute your little simple, let
us make what you have today, I accessories. You probably know your
rule over me, umzechig. Because it is impossible to serve two
masters, So, your dad probably wise - you tend to Mamsell tend to -
so, I say, your dad probably wise wohlbedächtig want to spare myself
in the impossible, possible make. He has each of you the other day
at my main mistress made so that I have one day of gentle Juliane
respectable girl, and another perk of Henriette Lisette be
wild. But now, since
the strange men in the home - Henriette.

Our worshipers do you - Lisette.

Yes, yes! Your worshipers who will soon command of your high-husbands
will be - since, I say, these are in the house, everything and
anything over it, I will from one hand to the other was missed, and
oh!

Order our beautiful lies with the sewing kit, since you are just not
the time people under the nightstand. emphasize again that! I must
know where I am with you, if I am an impartial judge should be.
Henriette. We want to figure out soon .-- You surely you reflect
on the last day, as you with my sister in the afternoon sermon dragged
so happy you are with me on our Vorwerk mileage would be?

You were very strict at that time, Juliane - Juliane. I have surely
not an honest soul a futile way to her beyond that? Henriette.
Lisette - Lisette. Silence, Henriette Mamsell! not from the school
geschwatzt, or - Henriette. Girls are not threatened! You know
well, I have a good conscience. Lisette. Me too .-- But let us
not into the hundredth thousandth .-- legal gossip! to the
holiday I will remember! He was the last of our order, because even
the evening came to Theophanes.

Henriette. And then, with the permission of my sister, you are now
mine. Juliane. Without objection. Lisette. Juchhei! Mamsellchen. So
I am now your: Juchhei! Juliane. Is the solution to your floor under
its flag? Lisette. Without weitre circumstances: tell me now your
dispute .-- In the meantime, I put my face in judicial wrinkles.

Juliane. Dispute? An important dispute? You're both Schäkerinnen .--
I will hear nothing more of it. Henriette. So? You do not want
judges recognize? A clear proof that you did wrong .-- Hear only,
Lisette! we have over our worshipers gezankt. I want to still call
it, but as it might be what it wants. Lisette. That I
thought. What could have two good sisters squabble else? It is admittedly
irksome when its future main despise hear.

Henriette. Schwude! Girls, you like totally on the wrong side. None has
despised the other worshipers, but our quarrel, therefore, because of
the other worshipers - again worshipers! - Rose too much.
Lisette. A new kind of quarrel! indeed, a new way! Henriette. Can you
tell it otherwise, Juliane? Juliane. Oh! spare me that. Henriette. To
spare no hope if you do not withdraw. - Sage, Lisette, you have
our men's ever been held against each other? What seems you? Juliane
makes their poor Theophanes down as if he would be a little monster.
Juliane. Naughty sister! When I have done this? You must make a fleeting
comment that you never had me aufmutzen should consider such
consequences? Henriette. I see that we must make you angry when you
are with the language sollst .-- A fleeting remark you call it? Why
thou fought on their thoroughness? Juliane. You've got foolish
words! You do not finger the whole trade to themselves? I thought
how much I would flatter you if I have your Adrast the remaining,
well-man test sets that I have ever seen.

You would have me to thank for my views, but not contradictory aims.
Henriette. See how strange you are! What was different from my
opposition, as a thanks? And how could I thank forcefully than when
I use the undeserved Lobspruch on your Theophanes zurückschob? -
Lisette.

She is right! Juliane. No, they did not quite. Because of that apathy
me. Is it so childish on a walk with me around? Sahe me not to
play for a little girl, which had said to her: Your doll is the most
beautiful, and they, therefore, to bad it does not make, would
respond: No, your is the best? Lisette. Now it has right! Henriette.
Oh! go, like you are a judge. Have you already forgotten that you
angehörst me today? Lisette. The sharper I will just against
you, so I will not let partisan. Juliane.

Believe me that I better qualities in a male person to appreciate,
as its shape. And it is enough that I use these properties to
improve the Theophanes think. His spirit - Henriette. From this
is not the speech. Now there ways; the point on the body, and
this is where Theophanes beautiful, like you say what you want.
Adrast is better grown well, he has a beautiful foot, I have nothing
dawid. But let us come to the face .-- Juliane. Piecewise So I was
not embedded. Henriette. That's your fault
.-- What a pride, what a contempt of all others does not look the
Adrast from every face!

You'll call it nobility, but do you make it beautiful?

In vain, his face still so regularly: his stubbornness, his desire
to have a degree of mocking fold it brought to him in my eyes is
quite ugly.

But I certainly want him to bring out: Let the honeymoon be over
until .-- Your Theophanes, however, the lovable face of the world.
There is a friendliness is to never denied .-- Juliane. Tell me
nothing but just what I've noticed as well, than you just this alone
his friendliness is not only the ownership of his face, as the
consequence of his inner peace. The beauty of the soul brings in a
body ungestalteten stimuli, such as their ugliness and the excellent
build the most beautiful elements of that, I do not know what
eindrückt, a unzuerklärenden annoyances erwecket.

If Adrast just the pious man would be of Theophanes is, if his soul
as divine rays of truth, which it forcibly to disregard bestrebet,
would be enlightened: he would an angel among his people, because
he now barely a man among the people.

Zürn not, Henriette, that I shall speak of him scornfully. If he falls
into good hands, he can still be all that what he is not now, because
he never has his wish. His notions of honor, of natural equity are
excellent .-- Henriette (mockingly). Oh! you make him do too much
down .-- But seriously, I can not say that you understand me now
for the little girl playing ansiehst? I like not of thee seinetwegen
be satisfied. He is, as he is long and well for me. You spoke of good
hands, in which he would have to fall if you have what it should be.

Since he liked into my now, it will probably be no different.
I'm after him to judge, it is my only trick to us to make life
bearable.

Only the sullen faces he must sit, and as I will him the faces of
your model to propose Theophanes. Juliane. Again Theophanes, and his
friendly faces? Lisette. Silence! Mamsell - Second appearance Theophanes.
Juliane. Henriette. Lisette. Henriette (jumps Theophanes the
contrary). Come, Theophanes, come!

- Can you probably think that I have your party voted against my sister
need to keep? Admire my altruism. I have you up into the sky
collected, but because I know that I do not get, but that you are
my sister, your value is not the Kennet. Just think, they
claimed that you are not so nice person imagined as Adrast. I do
not know how they can claim. I see the Adrast but with the eyes
of a lover, which is, I'm him ten times nicer than he is, and yet
you give him my Bedünkens, nothing after. While she speaks,
on the side of the mind, you would have more advantages, but what we
know because of wenches spirit? Juliane. The Schwätzerin! You
know it, Theophanes: do you believe it not. Theophanes. I do not believe
most Juliane? Why do you want me not to let the happy conviction
that you will benefit from me talking about? - Thank you, Henriette
pleasant, for your defense, I thank you umsovielmehr, the more I'm
überführet that a bad thing have to defend them. Solo - Henriette.
Oh! Theophanes, I ask of you is not that you should give me quite.
There is a certain other person - Juliane. Let this other person
justice to, Theophanes. You will, I hope to know my views -
Theophanes.

Do not walk with me than with a stranger to, dearest Juliane. Do not
use Einlenkungen I would approach with any provision .-- In the books,
in a tight staubigten Studierstube forgets one of the body very
easily, and you know, the body must be edited as much as the soul,
if both those perfections should receive, which they are capable of.
Adrast is in the big world had been brought up, he has everything
at the same popular - Henriette. And if it should be error .--
Theophanes.

At least I made this comment not want to do .-- But patience! a big
reason these mistakes can not always be revealed. Adrast the same
Small finally realize what is too much by the emptiness reveals that
in our hearts they leave behind. I'm so sure of his repentance,
that I have him in advance about love .-- How happy are you living
with him, happy Henriette! Henriette. So noble Adrast never speaks
of you, Theophanes .-- Juliane. Once a rather nasty remark, my
dear sister .-- What are you looking so that you have read the
Theophanes say this? It is always better if you do not know who
speaks ill of us.

The knowledge of our detractors is also in the noble heart a kind
of removal against them, their reconciliation with the offended person
just makes even more difficult. Theophanes. They delight me, Juliane.
But you fear nothing! Eben is to be sooner or later my triumph
is that I now despise me Adrast better of me to judge forced
to have. Would I not all this triumph zernichten if I even
some resentment against him wanted to be? Still, he has not taken the
trouble, get to know me more. Maybe that means I find him to
property .-- Let us now just cancel them, and allow that I
am one of my friends at the next blood you must register, which is
a pleasure that has made me to be surprised .-- Juliane. A kinsmen?
Henriette. And who is it? Theophanes. Araspe. Juliane. Araspe?
Henriette. Ei! this is great! Where is he? Theophanes. He had just
dismounted, and I promised to immediately follow. Henriette. White
is the daddy already? Theophanes. I do not think so. Juliane. And the
big mama? Henriette. Come on, sister! this cheerful message, we must
first bring them .-- You're not mad at me? Juliane. Who can be
angry at you, Schmeichlerin? Come all! Theophanes. Allow that I
expect him here. Henriette. Take it but soon. Hear! Third appearance
Theophanes. Lisette. Lisette. I remain, Mr. Theophanes, to give you
even a little big compliment to make. Truly! They are the happiest
man in the world! and if Mr Lisidor, I think, still have two daughters,
they would have all four in his love you. Theophanes. As Lisette
understand that? Lisette. I understand it, that if all four of his
would it now be every two. Theophanes (smiling). Still dark! Lisette.
Her smile says .-- If you are not really your earnings do not know,
you are only the more lovable. Juliane loves you and that goes with
the right things, because they will love you. Only a pity that their
love is such a good reputation has not. But what should I say to
Henrietta? Of course she loves you, and what is the desperate, she
loves you - out of love .-- If it is only both could also marry!

Theophanes. She is very good, Lisette! Lisette. Yes, indeed! then
you should keep on top of me yet. Theophanes.

Even better! But I see that common sense has Lisette - Lisette. Mind?
On the compliment I know, sorry! nothing to answer. On another: Lisette's
nice, I have probably about to learn the answer: Sir, you jest. I
do not know whether this response also sends hieher.

Theophanes. Without circumstances - Lisette is a service erzeigen
me when they told me their true opinion of Julian discovered. I
am sure it also in their conjecture is not far from the targets. There
are some things where a women's room is always sharper eye sees a
hundred eyes of the man people.
Lisette. Desperate!

this experience, you can probably never have from the books - but
if you only have eight to my speeches were given, and I already
gave you my true opinion of Julian said.

I told you not to say that I love her even reasonable reputation
seems to have? That is all I think of them.

Consideration requirement, exquisite beauty of the soul - you telling
the truth, against such noble words, in a female's lips, like a lover
always a little suspicious of. And yet a small observation belongs
hieher: this namely, that they are consistent with the rhetoric was
far more economical than Mr. Theophanes was alone in the house.
Theophanes. Certainly? Lisette (after they viewed him for a
moment). Mr. Theophanes, Mr Theophanes! Certainly you say this with a
kind, - with a kind, - Theophanes. What kind of a species?

Lisette. Yes! Now she is gone. The man people! the people man! And
even if it is equal to the allerfrömmsten are - but I will not let
muddle. Since Adrast in the home, I wanted to say, fall between
the Adrast and Juliane now and then glances before - Theophanes.
Looks? - You beunruhiget me, Lisette. Lisette. And the worry you
were so quiet, so quiet - Yes, glances fall between them, views,
not a hair different than the looks, and then when Mamsell between
Henriette and the fourth incident - Theophanes.

As for a fourth? Lisette. If you're not indignant. If I understand you
like the fourth call, you are actually in all but the first intention.
Theophanes (the first words aside). The Clever! - You shamed me
for my Neubegierde, and I've earned it. Nevertheless irret but you,
Lisette; huge irret you - Lisette. O shame! You told me earlier, such
a compliment like, and now it gereuet you at once, it made me .--
I would have nothing of the understanding have you give me the bat,
so if I should even vastly mistaken .-- Theophanes (restless and
distracted).

But where is he? - Lisette. My mind? - Where he wants .-- How much
is certain, that when Henriette Adrast is pretty bad, they also sosehr
after his manner, to appear. You can all suffer only geringgeschätzt
to be, it can not suffer. She knows it too well, for what we consider
Adrast: for nothing, as a creature Chen, from no other
intention because, as the men to make a pleasure.

And that is not worthy but very thought! But as you can see in
what mistakes the wicked unbelieving people decay .-- Nu? Listen
to me no more, Mr Theophanes? Like so distracted? Like so restless?
Theophanes.

I do not know where my cousin stays - Lisette. He will surely come .--
Theophanes. I should really just him again entgegengehn .-- Adieu,
Lisette! Fourth appearance Lisette. The hot, I just stopped - but
he will not become irksome to him that I am a little on the tooth felt?
The brave man! I will only like to see what else will emerge. I give
him everything really good, and if it should go after me, so I
already knew what I would do .-- (By they umsieht.) Whoever ways;
the point because the apparent motion? - Are there? - A Couple
allerliebst rascal! Adrasts Johann, and Theophanes Martin: the
true image of their masters, from the ugly side! From Freigeisterei
is the one Spitzbube; and piety it is a fool. I must me the desire
to make them behorchen. (You will return.) Fifth appearance
Lisette, half hidden behind a scene. Johann. Martin.

Johann. What I tell you! Martin. You need me for very stupid view.
Thy Lord an atheist? Think one else!

He looks so like me and du He has hands and feet, he has the foot
in width and the length of the nose, like a man, he red't like a
man, he eats like a man: -- and should be an atheist? Johann.
Now? because the atheists are not human beings? Martin. People? Ha!
ha! ha! Now I hear that you yourself do not know what an atheist is.
Johann. For the executioner! you'll probably know better. Ei!
but teach your ignorant neighbor. Martin. Listen! - An atheist -
a brood of hell, which, like the devil, can move a thousand times.

Soon's a cunning fox, a wild bear soon - soon, it's an ass, soon to
be a philosopher; - soon it's a dog, soon became a poet insolent. In
short, it is a monster that is already alive with the devil
in hell fire, - a plague of the earth, - a horrible creature, - a
cattle, which is stupid, as a cattle - a Seelenkannibal -- an
anti-Christian, - a terrible monster - Johann.

It has feet Bock: not? Two horns? a tail? - Martin. That may be
.-- It is a changeling that to hell by - by a licentious
intercourse with the wisdom of this world has created - it is
- yes, look, this is an atheist.

To him our parish abgemalt; know him from great books.

Johann. Simple Schöps! - See me
at once. Martin.

Nu? Johann. What do you see in me? Martin. Nothing but what I am ten
times better to me can see. Johann.

Do you do something terrible, something disgusting to me?

Am I not a man like you? Have you ever seen that I am a fox, a
donkey, or a cannibal would have been?

Martin. Always let the ass off when I reply to you, how you want
to be happy .-- But why you ask?

Johann.

Because I myself am an atheist, that is, a strong spirit, as any
honest guy now after the fashion must.

You know, an atheist burned alive in hell. Now!

smell once you smell a fire in me? Martin. So you're just not.

Johann. I would be none? I do not shame on to doubt,
or - But truthfully, the pity prevents me to be angry.

You're too complain of poor knave!

Martin. Arm? Let even see who the last week most tip gekriegt has.

(He reaches into his pocket.) Lüders You're a devil, you versäufst
anything - Johann. Let's connect! I speak from an entirely
different poverty from the poverty of the mind that deals
with noisy miserable chunks of superstition diet, with a loud and
wretched rags of stupidity must dress .-- But so are you people who
are not more than maximum four miles behind the oven comes. Gereiset
If you would like me - Martin. Traveled are you? Let's hear where
art thou been? Johann. I have been - in France - Martin. In France?
With thy Lord? Johann.

It remains, then, that when
the sacrament itself is really received, grace is increased, and the
spiritual life perfected: yet in different fashion from the sacrament
of Confirmation, in which grace is increased and perfected for
resisting the outward assaults of Christ's enemies. But by this
sacrament grace receives increase, and the spiritual life is
perfected, so that man may stand perfect in himself by union with God.

Reply Obj. 2: This sacrament confers grace spiritually together with
the virtue of charity. Hence Damascene (De Fide Orth. iv) compares
this sacrament to the burning coal which Isaias saw (Isa. 6:6): "For
a live ember is not simply wood, but wood united to fire; so also the
bread of communion is not simple bread but bread united with the
Godhead." But as Gregory observes in a Homily for Pentecost, "God's
love is never idle; for, wherever it is it does great works." And
consequently through this sacrament, as far as its power is
concerned, not only is the habit of grace and of virtue bestowed, but
it is furthermore aroused to act, according to 2 Cor. 5:14: "The
charity of Christ presseth us." Hence it is that the soul is
spiritually nourished through the power of this sacrament, by being
spiritually gladdened, and as it were inebriated with the sweetness
of the Divine goodness, according to Cant 5:1: "Eat, O friends, and
drink, and be inebriated, my dearly beloved."

Reply Obj. 3: Because the sacraments operate according to the
similitude by which they signify, therefore by way of assimilation it
is said that in this sacrament "the body is offered for the salvation
of the body, and the blood for the salvation of the soul," although
each works for the salvation of both, since the entire Christ is
under each, as stated above (Q. 76, A. 2). And although the body is
not the immediate subject of grace, still the effect of grace flows
into the body while in the present life we present "our [Vulg.:
'your'] members" as "instruments of justice unto God" (Rom. 6:13),
and in the life to come our body will share in the incorruption and
the glory of the soul.
_______________________

SECOND ARTICLE [III, Q. 79, Art. 2]

Whether the Attaining of Glory Is an Effect of This Sacrament?

Objection 1: It seems that the attaining of glory is not an effect of
this sacrament. For an effect is proportioned to its cause. But this
sacrament belongs to "wayfarers" (_viatoribus_), and hence it is
termed "Viaticum." . [122.] This observation gives us a criterion
that can serve in many cases: when the two objects we explain driven
alternately from one to another, we can avoid the circle, we can
suspect that the two objects, apparently different, they are not
in reality, and that our understanding is it a single object, as
viewed from two different reasons. [123.]

This is verified in this matter. In explaining the principle of
contradiction, we find the idea of time and to define the time
we find the principle of contradiction, or with ideas of being and
non being.

There are circles, but inevitable, and therefore ceases to be vicious.
Clarify these ideas. [124.] What does the principle of contradiction?
means that they are not being excluded, and conversely, not
being as it means that these extremes are such as to put the other
one disappears, not only in the order of our concepts, but also
in reality.

B to be calling anyone, it will mean the principle of contradiction
that B does not exclude the B and B not excluded B. Pensado B
disappears in the non-B concept, and thought the non-B,
disappears in the concept B.

Since in reality B, B does not disappear, and since in reality the
non-B disappears B. Here is the real meaning of the principle. While
reflecting, as will be noticed that it is, we have dispensed with
the idea of time, since we considered only the mutual exclusion
of B and B not referring primarily to a _simul_, an indivisible
point of duration, which no enclosing succession, gives us no idea
of time.

I said, _in cabe_ soon, since we thought the same thing for B and
not B, and germinated the idea in our understanding of succession and
therefore of time. [125.] Thinking B then not B, we find contradiction,
but not so that these two things can not be made absolute. The exclusion
is conditional, that is, as the ends are simultaneously
contradictory, or refers to an indivisible _ahora_, but the idea of
B does not discover an intrinsic necessity of existence, and
therefore although we know that while B is not be non-B; well
conceive that B may not be, and not become a B.

In this case the idea of contradiction disappears and reconcile
very well in our understanding the two concepts of B and B does
not, as long as they are distributed in different moments. [126.]
From this it follows that the perception of time implies perception
of not being needed, of beings that, when there may no longer exist,
and where there may not happen to exist. The difference will be
necessary from the contingent, is that at first there absolutely
exclude its non-existence and existence in the second excludes the
non-existence only conditionally, ie, in the case of simultaneity.
[127. ] here is the reason because we need to put the principle of
contradiction in the weather conditions.

The objects we perceive are shifting, so that neither its amendments,
or in its intimate nature, nothing to hold them secure existence.
When they can no longer be, and if this does not happen continuously
in terms of its substance, is found in their accidents. For this
reason we can not affirm the absolute contradiction, but rather
conditional: the reluctance of being and not being there but in
the case of simultaneity. [128.] If only concibiésemos being
necessary, we may have no idea of time, the existence absolutely
exclude the non-existence, and therefore the absolute contradiction
always serious, never conditional. [129.]

This analysis is a consequence significantly. The perception of the
time we come up in the perception of no need of things from the
time we perceive a need not be, we see that a stop can be, where we
already have the idea of inheritance or real-time or possible.
You attack a very serious thought: the idea of time is the idea
of the contingency of time consciousness is the consciousness of our
weakness. [130.] The idea of time is so close in our mind, without it
we would not _yo_ idea. The consciousness of the identity of a
supposed link _yo_ (Lib V. I, chap.

XXV), which is impossible to find without memory. This includes the
need _pasado_ relationship, and therefore the idea of time. CHAPTER
XVIII. SUMMARY. We present in summary the doctrine of the earlier
chapters. [131.] Time is a very difficult thing to explain, those
who deny such a difficulty states that he thought very little about
the merits. [132.]

The movement is measured by time, but it is not fully defined by
just calling the action moving. [133.]

Unable to find a primitive measure of the movement: the need to
stop at one or another, even if taken arbitrarily, and refer to it.

This should be the most uniform possible. [134.] The similarity between
the idea of time and space, we suspect that must be
explained in a similar manner. [135.] There is something that lasts
without duration, then no DURATION separate things. If there is not
nothing, there would be lasting. [136.]

There is no succession if there are things that happen, then the
succession, but by itself can be formulated in the abstract, can not
be performed as an independent form of things. [ 137.] _antes time
and involves despues_ and therefore succession. Well considered, is
the same succession, as in succession by designing and conceiving
time. [138.]

Succession involves exclusion of some of the things with each other.
This exclusion may be based on the essence of them, or arise
from an external cause. [139.] The time, therefore, involves
the idea of exclusion of many things together: the idea is generally
the order of removal, or the relationship between being and non
being. [140.]

If there is not moving, there would be no time. [141.] Before the
existence of the world there was no time elapsed. There was no lasting
eternity. [142.] Eternity is the very existence of being infinite,
without any actual or possible alteration. [143.] The time is not
independent of all things, but it is really there. Is the order
between being and non being. [144.] The idea of time is the perception
of this order and not to be. [145.] Coexistence is the simple
existence of various beings.

In the absence of denial idea being, if you consider many people, there
are perceptions of coexistence. [146.] The time may be considered
under three aspects: present, past and future. All other relations
of time expressed in different ways in different languages, are
combinations of those elements. [147.]

This is the only absolute time: he was conceived without relation
to past and future, but what is past and it will no longer be
conceived without regard to what this. [148.] The idea for this
came with the idea of being better or shall we be confused with the
very idea of the existence of what does not exist this is not being
. [149.] The idea of time spent is not a perception or is it already
destroyed, in relation to a person present, as well as the future
is the possible perception of a cause and an outstanding and determined
be relative to a present. [150.] The idea of time is excited by
the experience, but can not be called an act of mere observation, is
opposed to this need that makes it intrinsically capable of being
the exact sciences. [151.] Much less can be said that this idea
is based order-sensitive, since it embraces in general all
kinds of moves, they are sensitive or insensitive. [152.]

As the idea of the perception of time between the order and be not be
considering this relationship in greater generality, is a pure
intellectual order. Their transit experience is like that of other
general and unspecified. [153.] Need to distinguish between the ideal
time purely empirical and the pure is the relationship between
being and not being considered the most widespread and most complete
in its indeterminacy, the empirical relationship is the same subject
to a significant extent. [154.]

To measure this succession need three things, which together form
the empirical idea of the time. 1. ª pure idea of being and not
being, or removal. 2. ª Application of this concept to a
significant phenomenon, such as solar movement. 3. ª Idea number
applies to the determination of the removal of this phenomenon.
[155.]

It is conceived by empirical means that the time is a real need, the
subject of science. Of the three elements making up the idea is a
metaphysical one, the other a mathematical idea, and the third
is an observation to which they apply these ideas. If this
is not real, it would at least be possible, thus save the necessity
of the calculation on the stirrup. [156.] There is an intimate
relationship between the idea of time and the principle of
contradiction.

This is explained by one and each other, without which this vicious
circle there. Consisting in the principle of the mutual exclusion
between being and not being, and being the idea of the time sequence
between the perception of being and
non being, is that the review is coming up in an identical background,
that is, the comparison between the ideas of being and non being.
[157.]

Without the idea of time will be impossible memory, and therefore
the unity of consciousness.

CHAPTER XIX. look at the ideas of space, number and TIME. [158.]

We have reached the point where it can identify and determine
with complete accuracy, the necessary elements that form the subject
of the natural sciences. This will be over very curious about how
it is important because it presents a very simple set of knowledge
that they now cover a vast field; field whose boundaries may be removed
continuously, which in effect is removed, without reaching
any conclusion as possible to progress indefinitely. [159.]

Space, number, time: Here are the three elements of the natural
sciences. What else is contained in them, belongs to the mere
experience, the order of the contingent facts, which involve no need,
are not strictly scientific objects. [160.] The idea is based on the
number arithmetic universal; in the geometry of space, time and puts
us in contact with the sensible world to determine the relationship
of their events.

These are isolated incidents, troops, unable to serve the subject of
science, if not subjected to the general ideas of space, number and
time. [161.] Where to be seen in all the natural sciences there are
two parts The theoretical and experimental. The first is based on
ideas, the second contingent on facts: that this does not fall without
the real world, this is not without that amount to the area of
science. [162.]

The natural sciences with much more reason they deserve the title of
science the larger the number of elements that hold and the more
intimate is the link that they can join the contingent facts.

But since there is no natural science can ignore the latter, it should
also not able to find an entirely purified of contingency that they
will communicate. [163.] These observations reveal a great
simplicity in scientific, but it is still can take much away,
recalling what was said when analyzing the number of ideas and time.
[164.] I have explained that the idea of the number born to be and
not be, and that the same occurs in the time, then at the bottom of
these two ideas is one, although presented under different
aspects. [165.] From this it follows that all the natural sciences
are reduced to two elements: the extension of the intuition and the
concept be general. The extension is the basis of all sensitive
intuitions, in the outside, is a necessary condition for the
relationships we perceive the world body in the interior, it is
essential to a perception that the sensitivity can be representative
of external objects.

The concept of being is the basis for all concepts; breeds developed
in various ways the ideas of number and time, which combined with
the extension, are the necessary part of all natural sciences.
[166.]

Images space, number and time are common to all men, and proof
that all are identical, is that the applications are all led to similar
results, and in speech, all are expressed in the same way. All measure
space, and its various dimensions, all have all the time conceive
why it is so difficult to explain these ideas?

Why such a difference in the views of the philosophers? This is a
confirmation of what I said earlier (Lib. I, chap. III) on the
strength of the direct perception of our mind, and reflects the
weak.

When we are satisfied with the direct perception of space, number,
time, ideas are very clear, the understanding is full of strength and
energy, endlessly extending the scope of their knowledge, raising
the edifice of mathematics and sciences natural. But
as soon as it returns to itself, leaving the perception becomes
the direct reflection, trying to perceive the same perception, weak
forces, and falls into the confusion, the source of endless disputes.

We feel vaguely that idea just before that we applied to all policies
that were leaked as it were at all of our knowledge, that life was
like traveling and felt in all our perceptions, but it itself, in
isolation, in its purity, continually escapes us, mixed with all
the things we see is different from things, and a split, and joins
with another, make an effort to incommunicado with everything other
than itself, and then feel the spirit a sort of faintness, as
everything fades to your eyes, and in the absence of reality, seems
content with names, pronounced and repeated it a thousand times as
involving them in what little remains of that reality. [167.]

One of the causes of fainting, and the errors that are often the
consequence is that I said above, the mania of wanting to represent
the whole idea as a way, like a picture inside, and when we should
consider that in many cases not There are more than a perception,
a simple act there in the depths of our spirit, that act can be
represented with anything that is like nothing sensitive, you can
not explain with words, because you can not break down, and that
only We present as an act of conscience, but the fact of action,
penetration, we introduce, as it were, into things and see what is
in them in common, after separating all the particularities and
setting our understanding as a central peak, from which we contemplate
the external and the internal world and are cast by the immense
potential of the regions.

END OF VOLUME THREE NOTES (Paper VII, Chapter I). (I). There are
those who believed that time is a very easy thing to explain:
such is the opinion of the father in his famous work Buffie
_Tratado the first verdades_. After having explained to his
words, what the duration and time, said: "I admire it that so
many philosophers have spoken of time and duration, as things
unexplainable or incomprehensible:" If non intelligo RUGS 'is I
have to say, according to the paraphrase of Mr.

Therefore
preservation from sin is not an effect of this sacrament.

_On the contrary,_ our Lord said (John 6:50): "This is the bread
which cometh down from heaven; that if any man eat of it, he may not
die": which manifestly is not to be understood of the death of the
body. Therefore it is to be understood that this sacrament preserves
from spiritual death, which is through sin.

_I answer that,_ Sin is the spiritual death of the soul. Hence man is
preserved from future sin in the same way as the body is preserved
from future death of the body: and this happens in two ways. First of
all, in so far as man's nature is strengthened inwardly against inner
decay, and so by means of food and medicine he is preserved from
death. Secondly, by being guarded against outward assaults; and thus
he is protected by means of arms by which he defends his body.

Now this sacrament preserves man from sin in both of these ways. For,
first of all, by uniting man with Christ through grace, it
strengthens his spiritual life, as spiritual food and spiritual
medicine, according to Ps. 103:5: "(That) bread strengthens [Vulg.:
'may strengthen'] man's heart." Augustine likewise says (Tract. xxvi
in Joan.): "Approach without fear; it is bread, not poison."
Secondly, inasmuch as it is a sign of Christ's Passion, whereby the
devils are conquered, it repels all the assaults of demons. No
awnings bug was not left redotao. 531 Their remedies are secret,
they are guessing, not knowing the Chinese, but some very old, and
it is advisable with a thousand lies, the indina. 532 Alli supports
cures the patient terrible, because estrujones blows and those are
the remedies: the grip of the hair and pulled tufts.

I make 533 thousand heresies that the presence of horror, the Indus
brama pain that goes by the torments and untandolo fat put it all to
boil in the sun. 534 And since there face up, around him fire
a china and well after she has heard the cries, so there are some
that heal with this damn game. 535 Others are the cook mouth creaks
but pain, so grab it and squeeze it, it burned lips and teeth with a
Guevara some hot chicken witch. 536 Meet the Indus and the risk
losing all hope of escape if fire reaches the hare; gives fever,
delirium, and he cain with the spear. 537 These fevers are terrible,
and although it is not in dispute, nor I know which, "will", we
said, "Of such as eating horse meat such raw". 538 gringuito a
captive who had always talked about the boat, and augaron in a
puddle caused by the plague, had eyes as celestial Zarco foal. 539
to give him the death ruled an old china, and even if they afflict
and complains, it is useless to resist: did the wretched sight as
puts sheep. 540 We do not leave for much havoc; Cruz felt the threats
that plague the kingdom, and harassed us the idea of returning to
our payments. 541 But the the best plan for rebels.

The blood freezes me! who had saved us also fell under attack of fever
and virgüela. 542 We could not doubt to see you in such suffering, so
he had to have, and that Cruz it was so human, "Come," he said,
"Paisano to fulfill a duty." 543 We went to be by your side to
help you heal, what you came for and to others and we defend
ourselves, not let it Lancia. 544 grew plague and death followed.

At his side was cuiandolo with us pacencia, but ended its existence
at the end of a few days. 545 The memory haunts me, renewing my regret,
I want to mourn, nothing As my punishment, Cruz also fell very
bad and not to lift 546. All I can figure out how to suffer,
but not towards me moaning, and increased my aflición not
know a good prayer
to help pa die. 547 You knock the virgüela and the poor was a
scream, I recommended that his son had stopped payment "has been
abandoned."

She said, "That poor little." 548 "If you, búsquemeló," he repeated
half a voice, "In the world we were two, because he has no mother,
so he knows his father and entrusted my soul to God. "549 The tight
against his chest, the pain Dominae; his sentence was increased
beyond the die infidels suffer from pain cruel deliver his soul to
Creator. 550 Kneeling at her side I have entrusted to Jesus. missed
the light in my eyes, I had a terrible swoon; cai injured as lightning
when I saw him dead Cruz.

VII 551 bravo one fellow in my arms spiral, both men served, which
was so wise man, for humanity and courageous in the desert died.
552 And I, with my own hands, even as I buried; God for your soul
begged his chest full of pain and tears moistened the ground that
it redamé. 553 I fulfilled my obligation and there is no lack of
acknowledgment that I must not excuse it, but succumb to grief:
beyond the grave with a cross indicates that I I gave it. 554 He
was in the awning awning and everything annoyed me, and I regret
them, and DELIVERY to the feeling I had every time I hear it called
Cruz. 555 What more, what less, Creole know what it is bitterness;
I was not sad misfortune to go to another consolation tirarme on
the floor, the lao of his burial.

They spent 556 hours without me having naides God for witness,
and my thoughts fixed on my wife and my children, my payment and
my friend. 557 Private property and many others lost ground, it seems
that the time together and did not happen, as if the sun stopped to
contemplate such a penalty. 558 Not knowing what to do Me and my
DELIVERY aflición, being there once, the wind coming lao oi some
sad cries out to me. 559 There are few complaints in the awning of
the wild, because that is where vandalaje not fix anything but a
spear and stabbed to bolazos and courage. 560 need not swear, they
must believe Martín Fierro, I have seen in this banishment to a
wild irritated, and cut a lokita tirarsela to dogs. 561 I've witnessed
martyrdom, I have seen many atrocities, crimes and atrocities
Christians who do not know, because neither the Indian nor the china
knows what properties are. curiosity I wanted the 562 who came to
me crying, I went to the point instead of beating came: I'm still
horrified that I discovered the box!

563 Era an unhappy woman who was full of blood, and cried with a
madalena wins; knew that this was a Christian and gave me more grief.
564 Cautious I approached an Indian who was lao because the pampa
is always desconfiao every Christian and saw he had in hand rebenque
ensangrentao. 565 VIII Later I learned it, in a positive way, that
within a group of his party pampas, killed her husband and took
her captive. 566 In so hard bonded to two years was, a little boy
who had been at his side did.

The china hated the slave-like. 567 wanted to make an escape attempt,
as the unhappy captive naides it will redeem, and they have to
suffer the torment while living . 568 Aquella china perverse graphical
point arrived, cruelty and pride showed that the Indus was brave:
wore a necklace of teeth that Christians killed him. 569 ordered
to work, paying close to his son by shaking and screaming, by early
morning, bound hand and foot so that even a little lamb. 570
Ansi imposing task of collecting firewood and looking to sow mourn
his son, and until we finished, the china does not let him suckle.
571 Where did not borrow the work to another china, "Naides," he
said, "imagine, neither can boast that it has the unhappy experience
that captivates." 572 If they see their grown son, as a pious prayers
and do not understand never serve, if not this is the other, take
it away and sell it or change it for a foal. 573 In the upbringing
of his barbarians are by others.

I had not ever seen a table in the tie, the breed well, and
they flatten the head from behind. 574 While this may seem strange
to put in any doubt among the people rude, barbaric in its face,
it is shown that the head is pointed to them. 575 Aquella china
evil, that the hated, he began to say one day, because a sister
died, which no doubt the Christian had thrown witchcraft. 576 The
Indian took the field and began to threaten that he had to confess
if it was some witchcraft, or that would to punish until the dead.
577 Llora poor bereaved, but the Indus, in its rigor, snatched him
with the juror's son in his arms, and made the first crack rebencazo
pain. 578 savage so cruel that he was still Reyna banging her ;
more fumed the more the punishment and will deal with unhappy as
could be beaten. 579 very angry that he shouted "do not want
Confechando" gave back a setback, and to fill his bitterness, his
tender creature desgolló to the feet. 580 "It's incredible," I said,
"How much pride esista; mother who will not resist, one that quietly
savage crime committed inclement my view." 581 These tremendous
horrors not invent the Christian: "It is inhuman barbaric "I said
sobbing," I then tied his hands with tripitas my son. " IX 582, her
cries were heard in my solitude: on the point came, I was aware of
everything: the look of that one way or instant tutubié. 583 Any
blood that covered unhappy captive was top down graphical marks the
lazazos: their rags echos showed the raw bits. 584 He raised his
eyes to heaven bathed in tears, his hands were tied, and their
torment was clear, and I look like a stuck under asking. 585 I do
not know what happened in my chest at that moment, was the Indus
arrognte with a fierce face-to understand the two eyes was enough.
586 hit a jump like a cat and I won the distance, took that away
as a fierce hunter: boliadoras and looked off the surveillance .
587 While I was going to look strange and not contest the pingo
rein him up, then missed a graphical hand that is not wrong game,
and was armed tremendous. 588 The danger that I was when I met, we
had anxiety, I looked and looked, I was wary at the Indus, and he
descofiaba me. 589 Be careful when Indus was lurking in that position,
the tape is worth four or five, as is tigre and the jump to an easy
caught. 590 Danger was run and was juir the danger, more danger and
continue to expect so, because others could come and Carnia there
together. 591 A juerza precautionary many times I have saved as is
a hard trance any neglect is fatal if Cruz had lived there would
not be taken care. 592 A man with another value and juerza grows,
the fear disappears, and escapes any trap, between two, not to say
a pampa, a tribe, if offered. 593 largest uncertainty in such a
hurry trance, could not spot another steep luck, but giving the
Indus death or there being stretched. 594 And as time passed and I
urged that case, seeing he does not move me jui sidelong half to
catch the horse and see if I was coming.

Ansi 595 Thu, waited no longer and I ran wild, needs to tackle those
who are fighting with the Indus, the fear of seen walking
increased their courage. 596 In the off inside me a couple
of bolazos; one touched me in an arm, if I get well, I bankruptcy,
because the balls are made of stone and come as a shot. In the
597 first stab the pampa became a tangle; crook was wild but I
have seen in my raids, and more of the Picardy Arisco for the knife.
598 balls with the raw skill that he managed, with alacrity and I
gathered with the back edge haciéndomelas blow up the head.
599 Indus That, as everyone was cautious ... ¡Ahijuna! That earned
me the movie was fortunate that apotra me and threatened me with
a start with another.

I did a 600 in that incident unfortunately bitter in charge and
what time he goes back, I was caught up in the chiripá and I fell over
a long strip. 601 Ni pa enconmendarme wild time God gave me, as in
the ground I saw I jumped lightly: juntito head of the bolazo thundered.
602 Ni knife made out of respect for the Indian tightened, there
seeks completed without letting me get up, and I did not
even straighten place. 603 In vain I move: that I did not loose
Indus. As someone solved all my juerza run, but below that crude
could not give me güelta. * * * * 604 Blessed, God Almighty, who
can understand you!

When a weak woman you gave at that occasion the juerza that a man could
not possibly have. 605 Such as whining wretch, seeing the danger
is encouraged, as a arrow is leaning and forgetting their aflición,
hit a pull to the Indus that I drew from it. 606 Ausilio me as
generous freedom of trouble, if not her, that the Indus Sigur
sacrificed me and my value is doubled with a such as pure. 607 As
I went back to straighten us encounter, could not relax and chorriaba
me sweat in a hurry biggest ever again I find.

I also gave him 608 as moose should pose; aumentao had my work to
prevent the brutazo you paste some bolazo rabies to that woman. 609
ball in the hands of the Indus is terrible and very light, making
it what you like jumping like a goat. Silent, without saying a word,
peliábamos HOWTOs beasts. 610 That duel in the desert I will never
forget, was playing with the life so terrible enemy, there having a
witness to a bereaved wife. 611 The more he fumed I began my calm,
while unable to kill the Indus were not vent, to cut a rope to him
and started to excel. 612 I sounded the ribs of a damn that
bolazo, and while I gave a shout and shot him inside and , depress the
Indus and Refalo in the body of the little boy. 613 To explain the
mystery is my very small charities: the punishment, in my conscience,
His Divine Majesty, with no chance usually Providence.

As shoot 614 more of firm loads it, and although again he lost one
foot stomp, since that hit the cut in two parts. 615 Al lastimao
feeling was half sorry, but it was decided to Indus, its value
is not aquebranta; him leaving the neck as a kind of howling. 616
Lastimao in the head, blood enceguecía it, otherwise it wound left
by a pond was walking with his feet still chapaliaba without loosening.
617 Three impressive figures that formed terno: her mother's pain
I dejuera with the language, as fierce and savage shot to hell.
618 He was known for playing the Indus disgorging: he was bristling
hair and eyes stir; lips he lost when he went to take a breath. 619 A
hit him again in a coup sense, and be as badly hurt, he launched a
frenzied Indus Alrid that
terrible noise thundered as if the world was shaking. 620 In order
to deal both in the knife with elk, weight lifting that son of the
desert, I took him strung, and there just so long as it was dead.
621 Persin thanking me for having saved his life, stunned that poor,
kneeling on the floor, lifted his eyes to heaven painful sobbing.
622 I hinqué to his side to give thanks to my Holy in their grief
and loss there, the Mother of God, asks in his sad cry that we cover
the two. 623 won leona pause when he beg, and, without ceasing to
mourn, a Trapitos wrapped in pieces of his son, that I helped put
together.

Denda 624 X juerza that point was to leave the desert, because I
had discovered, and although I killed him in battle, for fixed I
launched by the Indian avenge dead. 625 A captive to the bereaved
I gave my horse: I gained was a pingo, and anywhere he was, as I
whistled refregarse to leave me. 626 I am sorry to the pampa it was
a Escuro tapao (mountain well when I find me out of my boxes), and
it was a dog he knew as pingo boliao run. 627 To run in the area
found no setback, the military in that and put a light , inside a
pen aveztruz and under the neck. 628 The pampa educates the horse
as a pa etrevero: as a light beam is when it touches the Indus, and
spin in the mouth is on a leather gueltas.

Varea 629 Lo in the morning (never misses this duty), then taught
to run between mud and Guadal: asino these animals as they can see.

In the 630-horse a pampa no danger of rolling, Thu puch ¡! And
shoot pa pingo is not enough; with prolixity tame it without
leaving corcoviar. 631 Pa to remove tickle cuidao touching it; hours
used, and finally, just when it leaves the ears and bends down and
the rack or Cocca. 632 I never shook him a blow, because it treats
Bagual with unparalleled patience domarlo-to-no hits until the order
is given and the docile animal. 633 And though I know I am on the
coarse powder shake to me that custom molds: pacencia to handle it
the next day and leave it up next to the unleash awning. 634 Ansi
anyone who tries to take a pingo model, it has to with devotion and
care must also prevent the beatings that give or pulling on the
floor. 635 Many want to master it with rigor and scourges, and if
they see the chafalote that has traces of evil, as some embraman
stick until it descogote.

All 636 were returned to pretest güeltas and saddle; say that is
broken, but compriende any fool who is afraid of Corcovado, and
do not want to confess. The 637-animal yeguarizo pardon this alvertencia
is greater conocencia and makes little sense; consented animal is
what captivates the pacencia. Exceed 538 to others who understand these
things, that man is good aprienda, as there are few trainers and
many of frangoyadores walking halter and rein. 639 I came, as I
say, bringing the companion, marched the whole night, doing our
way, without further direction to the destination we want to take
walks. 640 Al died in a pajonal tratao had to bury him, and then
tape it to handle well with straw, to take advantage of what they
used to find. 641 In noting our ausiencia we had to pursue, and,
in deciding to come, with all my heart I made the resolution of
film to death. 642 is a very serious threat to cross the desert
juyendo: many have died of hunger, because in such disarray can not
be do not play, not to be discovered. albitrio Only 643 of the man
can help you save: no wait Ausilio, are covered only by God in the
desert is very rare that one can escape. 644 Everything is sky
horizon immense green field!

Woe to those who lost their way or estravea! If someone wants to cross
it, remember this advice: check the course of 645 days with Fidel;
leave on time, sigiéndoló to download and if you sleep , put the
head lao going. 646 Oserve with great care where the sun appears,
and if there is fog and you can not hinder oservar, Keep walking,
because I lost perish. 647 God gave istintos subtle Todito mortals,
the man is one of those, and in the plains, shall guide the sun,
stars, wind and animals. 648 days to hide from the sight of the
savage, who earned a spot in a shelter there, to wait for dark to
continue our journey. 649 hardship and miseries of all kinds suffered:
several times we ate and ate raw meat, and in others no doubt, we
had roots. 650 After so much suffering inquietú dangerous, we reached
healthy with a glimpse of a mountain, and finally walk the land
where grows ombú. 651 New chest felt pity for Cruz, at that place,
and in humble servitude to the infinite majesty, kissed this blessed
land, which no longer pisa the wild. 652 At the Mercy of God so we
wanted to protect, it must work consistently support: reach to stay
after so much punishment. 653 Ah!

I even fired my unhappy companion: "I'm going," I said, "want to go,
though I hold the Government, therefore, prefer the hell hell for
the border." 654 To conclude this relationship can not continue,
let me rest : my children are present, and anxious because I have
what you have to tell. XI 655 and while I take a cool drink pa
garguero, and while tiempla the boy and his estrumento prepares them
in on how the meeting took place. I approached some stay to see some
truth, believing that in so many years it had been composed, but
soon got into what we were clean Thu mesmo.

Ansi, left me making me walk the chancho lame, because I should not
stir the nest; because you do not Inoren accounts that the government
sooner or later call it the poor to make the arrangement. But
in the end I was lucky enough to find an old friend who informed me
of everything, and when he knew that Judge me had long sought was
dead by his own fault that I have spent ten years of suffering and
not just ten years old who had already reached. And I have anxiety,
if I do not mind my error: three years on the border, two as
Matrero gaucho, and five among the Indians there do I count ten.

But this is erroneous; because it detracts from the truth of this
sacrament, to which truth it belongs that so long as the species
last, Christ's body does not cease to be under them, as stated above
(Q. 76, A. 6, ad 3; Q. 77, A. 8). But the species last so long as the
substance of the bread would remain, if it were there, as was stated
above (Q. 77, A. 4). Now it is clear that the substance of bread
taken by a sinner does not at once cease to be, but it continues
until digested by natural heat: hence Christ's body remains just as
long under the sacramental species when taken by sinners. Hence it
must be said that the sinner, and not merely the just, can eat
Christ's body.

Reply Obj. 1: Such words and similar expressions are to be understood
of spiritual eating, which does not belong to sinners. Consequently,
it is from such expressions being misunderstood that the above error
seems to have arisen, through ignorance of the distinction between
corporeal and spiritual eating.

Reply Obj. 2: Should even an unbeliever receive the sacramental
species, he would receive Christ's body under the sacrament: hence he
would eat Christ sacramentally, if the word "sacramentally" qualify
the verb on the part of the thing eaten. But if it qualify the verb
on the part of the one eating, then, properly speaking, he does not
eat sacramentally, because he uses what he takes, not as a sacrament,
but as simple food. Unless perchance the unbeliever were to intend to
receive what the Church bestows; without having proper faith
regarding the other articles, or regarding this sacrament.

Reply Obj. 3: Even though a mouse or a dog were to eat the
consecrated host, the substance of Christ's body would not cease to
be under the species, so long as those species remain, and that is,
so long as the substance of bread would have remained; just as if it
were to be cast into the mire. Nor does this turn to any indignity
regarding Christ's body, since He willed to be crucified by sinners
without detracting from His dignity; especially since the mouse or
dog does not touch Christ's body in its proper species, but only as
to its sacramental species. - I know, young lady - said, - that my
name does not wake you in any memory. - In fact ... - No wonder I've
never been presented to you, I have not dared to so much; his eyes,
big eyes, which were a time of joy France, had me dumbfounded ...
Very surprised, the Camargo answered: - Well? I do not understand
... Mr Breuil continued: - You were too far from me,
because it was flying very high; the richest men, the most famous,
the most noble, seeking his love, and I, who cried for you from my
plebeian seat 'paradise' was poor and vulgar. How to reach ... But
years have passed, and with them the bright courted you had left, now
you are alone, and
therefore perhaps a little sad.

And me, Mary Anne, who I love you with an unquenchable love that
is imposed on the ugliness and old age, I, I've won a fortune and
stay single because of all the women I've known I separated the
image you and rest assured that some day we would each other, I
come to offer you my freedom.

Will get married if you want. My hand ... it is speaking so, Mr.

Breuil, eyes leveled in tears, had knees. The scene was too
interesting not to tender the heart of the artist Camargo and his
tremulous hands cordially strengthened the hands of his old worshiper.
- No - said, - married, no, what for? The age of the passions is
already far. We'll be friends, nothing more than friends ... and Mr.
Breuil replied: - What you want. Every afternoon they met, and chatting
away their hours spent Mocedades beautiful. The installation completed
by the second floor of the hotel of Ana Maria never went out into
the street.

Prayed at night, playing chess, reading novels and composing music.
And it was sweet, with inexpressible sweetness, the decline of
those two old lady, who before the close of the snow gathered
None of their heads. Camargo Ana Maria died on April 29 1770 and his
body, dressed in white, lies in the church of San Roque.

He closed his eyes Mr Breuil, the only of their loved ones who never
knew their honey kisses. LAFONTAINE That night, after dinner, the two
old man fell into the account that Henry Thomas, who spent the
sixteen years it was necessary to teach a trade. In a race that was
not thinking, the poor, as they should not put the milestone of
his ambitions so high. - ...-- If Carpenter said the father - because
Paris carpenters earn much. -- -It would be better carpenter. - O
... taylor was a silence. - What if you did cure?

- said the mother. And the opinion of the good old woman, who was
very Catholic, prevailed. Henry Thomas took a seminar. Suddenly, the
future actor, who later was to pass to posterity under the pseudonym
"Lafontaine", was found with his hands full of books soporific, who
talked about issues ranging and severe, and the prisoner loose and
gallardo youth between the body folds of a black cassock.

It was his first costume. From the windows of the seminar, in candy
off hours, Enrique Thomas oteaba the green field, and from the remote
horizon, adventurous voices, voices of freedom and rebellion,
fascinated her pilgrim soul of Bordeaux. Each path away Serpa, every
ship leaving the port, he whispered in her ears a song of
goodbyes. Were undoubtedly interesting and Aristotelian Metaphysics
of Thomas _Suma_ the divine, but was more beautiful "live" in love
with red lips, sleeping under a tree, greetings from the crest of
a mountain out of a morning sun And , Henry Thomas, haunted by the
trills of Arpad larks, high jumped the garden walls of the seminar
circuit and fled to Bordeaux.

His flight was short. Another morning, a policeman stopped him, asked
him "their roles, and being undocumented, he returned to the parental
home. Escapee Alas! ... Their parents were not cordial gesture for
him not: he spoke only in their sobrecejos, hardened by anger, there
was no forgiveness. - If you do not want to be cured, you will be boy
- ordered the father.

And few days later, Henry Thomas Bordeaux came out in a brig, worse for
him than a prison. There, under the tyrannical splint pattern, climbed
to the yards, the world potatoes, guards became painful. That lasted
three months there and went to what for many toreros the first corner.
Lafontaine felt afraid to live the horror of that silent struggle for
bread, only unlinked death. When he returned to Bordeaux said it
would not return to the sea, and in turn, tried to be a carpenter,
blacksmith, broncista, fashion ... But his complexion bohemia was
stronger than his will, and as before the seminar, now in the workshop
of his soul drifter languished. What a boring day: night long, do
the same! ... Lafontaine fled again, and his biographers will find in
Paris selling from house to house works by deliveries to the editor
published Lachatre: serial novels, travel books, books on History,
Geography, Architecture.

Henry Thomas was reading them on the streets, his spirit devoured by
a sudden itch to know, and then sold them, using it for its abundant
and picturesque southern verbosity. His clients loved it, it was
nice, enveloping, inexhaustible. Never had the same editor Lachatre
a representative. Lafontaine One night he saw in the theater
of the Porte-Saint-Martin to Frederick Lemaitre, the great Frederick,
romance and huge as Hugo, "and his soul - said Daudet - showed that
revealing that only trepidation felt by artists and fans. " Henry
Thomas was declared a future. - Seré player - he said.

The next night came to visit the old and popular Sevestre, protector
of the young comedians and sort of chief or governor of all the small
theaters in Paris suburbs . Lafontaine told the then little more
than twenty years, was of medium height and newborn shoulder and head
while watching ladeaba resolved in a friendly gesture of defiance,
was gagged byroniana, sad and bold, the eyes, dazzling, and the
tion, conqueror; nose respingueña and cynical, the gesture, large,
lush and colorful phrase.

Everything was fire, conversation, drive, and the gesture anticipates
the word, the word for the idea. His soul seemed to overflow. So much
vivacity and beauty impressed the old pupil, full of experience,
Sevestre. - You've worked at some time - he asked. - Never. - So
... - But never mind. I've seen to represent Frederick, and I
know I serve, I know ... I would do what he does! ... There was
unwavering in his exaltation, faith, overwhelming, contagious;
¡demon boy!

... And Sevestre, good-natured, it was convincing, and Henry Thomas'
debut '. His manly beauty attracted to women, their eyes burning,
excited, his voice metallic admirably temperate, like that of Talma,
to orchestrate the symphony of furious passions, he soul vibrate. The
audience applauded, and Henry Thomas, after working some time in the
theaters and Sceaux de Grenelle, was able to step on the glorious
scenery of the Porte-Saint-Martin. His first teacher was Frédérick
Lemaitre. The famous actor, then reached the zenith of her glittering
celebrity, felt toward the adventurous Bordeaux fatherly affection,
he told him how to be studied; curb their intemperance, South correcting
the exaltation of his gestures and hot hardness of his voice. In the
evenings, after the function, you take home, and they obliged him
to shake off sleep and to ponder their "roles".

Lafontaine rebelled, big voices that swore he would not "and could
feel" that his gesture was another wanted to leave ... Frédérick But
he dominated with his experience and the shackle imposed their will.
- This is well said - again - nothing but well. And Henry Thomas,
exhausted, enervate, almost painful, to be concluded. Many years then
went to the theater's Gym, and there, under the authority of
the veteran tough Montigny, always unhappy and nag just
perfect his art. A Montigny everything seemed wrong. - Do not lift
your arms so you do not you open both eyes ... ... Lower your
voice But why do you shrink a man? Do not you understand that this
gesture can rarely be smart ... Oh!

Montigny was even worse than Frédérick ... A Lafontaine, rabid, spite,
he jumped his tears, his restless soul of seminarist of boy, dealer
deliveries of works, and all his maverick soul wandering, angry
protest against so many narrow impositions. But at the end and gave
his technique is refined. However, Henry Thomas was always an actor
stormy outburst, which was closer to that of Sully Mounet-Le-Bargy
circumspect. In "Kean" was a huge success. There was something in him
that he put out himself. But why not diminished his prestige on
the contrary. Women adored him, and over one night, when leaving
the theater and in the midst of sonrisitas envious of his companions,
was seen in the fresh commitment to board a car that was not hers.
* * * * * I knew á á Finnish Lafontaine, 1897, in Versailles.

It was very old man. The former seminarian Bordeaux, the gallant young
bizarre drama Gym because it was not: his eyes had lost their mocero
ardimiento, lips, pale, trembling in the oval of the face neatly
shaved skinny, the gesture was cold and blurry, the bust was tilted
toward the ground, in the document, before challenging and petulant,
and there was no will. Walk slow and quick steps, and in doing so
relied on a cane. So sad and so white, his hair snow appeared. He
lived in Versailles for a long time, no other company that his
wife, old woman like him, who loved and in the decoration of
those splendid gardens, which served as shelter for loves of Louis
XIV, King debauchee and magnificent, slender figure, dressed in
black, the old actor seemed funereal. One afternoon in December,
Lafontaine and his wife walked through the woods, and the gray clouds
of heaven and gnashing
of fallen leaves and the silence of the sources had to be frozen
very sad for them eloquently.

Suddenly, a tree fell on the old squashed.

Lafontaine launched a cry, cry perhaps his best, and lost consciousness.
His heart exploded.

When I picked up dead. The newspapers spoke of him very
little, because then it filled the entire Dreyfus _affaire_. _Le
Journal_, to break the news, added: "His funeral was not anybody."
Nobody! Oh, reader! To you, having known that young, he would have
loved it too, do not you scares the horrible denial, terrifying
emptiness, the abyss of disbelief, in those two syllables ...
"Nobody!" "Sic transit gloria mundi. "PUBLIC closely and with some
bad intention novelists of our work is not difficult to surprise
them for insecurities, hesitations and frivolous concept, testifying
how shallow is diminished or ballast scientific authors.

And why not, when for many, particularly in literature, is a question
... In this justísimo reproche reproof that might question the books'
popularization of science 'of the naturalists and doctors suffer the
defect contrary: they discovered a lack of knowledge "practice" of
men and things, ignorance of life that have these good souls, calm
and wise, that matured in the austerity of candid laboratories and
libraries; works are cold , which lack the complex perfume of vices,
virtues, joys and naive of hidden pain, which is what we might
appropriately call "smell of humanity." I am sure that if amenísimo
Gustavo Le Bon, after thoroughly study the 'soul' of the Assyrian
and Chaldean villages and searching Herodoto, memory and learning
pages of Suetonius and Sallust, had taken care to attend two or
three seasons during the racks of a theater, would have aljofarar
have many new and very curious and "views" his famous book "Psychology
of crowds."

Nothing, in fact, contribute both to scrutinize the life, as the "opposite
of life, ie, the theater because on the stage, before the glow
of the battery, and among rocks and wood walls and horizons of
cloth-beat love, jealousy, greed, covetousness, dissimulation,
all ruindades and passions, in order to riñen and are traded on
the market cruel human who is show business, the reader, "one world"
or abbreviated miniature 'of the world "...

So, to find a town soon, we stop to consider its museums, its libraries,
or their newspapers, their customs, no less, because everything - the
latter especially - requires deep and sustained attention of sacrifices,
we can simply study their theaters. On stage, on a mirror, the
soul of the race is portrayed.

It matters little that "intellectuals" to receive into these or those
aesthetic trends, all these 'fashion beauty "are accidental and
transient: the important thing for _turista_ that first
comes to a city, is" the herd ", the many variegated and
omnipotent, and this, in their trials, unconscious and was always
unilateral. The spirit of thoughtless and cloud vibrates northern
peoples in the works of Ibsen and Bjorson, his favorite
playwrights, theaters Londoners copied the English, cold and
right, unable to beat clapping in honor of any artist, the German
character, a strong, healthy love of the goddess Risa, is reflected
in a somewhat grotesque comedy, full of naughty hilarity, as the
French soul flirts and teases in Lavedan works of Bataille and Capus
works eclectic, as dictated by a supreme indulgence of great
fatigue. In contrast, the Spanish soul, sullen and rebellious, he
reappeared in his insane love of bloody dramas, inspired by atavistic
ideas, murder, courage and honor, the hot Italian idiosyncrasy
clarinea violent tragedies - tragedies of blood and hell soot -
that amazes Europe and Grasso Aguglia Ferrau their _tournées_.

In those long lines or contours, the soul of every nation does not
change, and always unique and similar to herself. But even within
that many details remain to be studied, many unforeseen dintornos,
which constitute the great spirit of the crowds temblequeante and for
his thorough knowledge and analysis, not anything more helpful than
the theater. "The audience is a strange demon, an awareness that,
despite their propensity to routine, as institutes, offering
strange anomalies, crisis moment, beyond all logic and reason,
that the spirit of the community are huge twists and laughs or
rages like a woman an attack of hysteria.

What motives attributed to those of the crowd contorsions Icaria
...

Nobody could say, but the comedians who struggle with it daily, and
fear the divine, so that neither the art, or even experience -
ubérrima mother of all knowledge - gives them insurance schemes for
them. - Today the public - say, - is in a bad mood. This cry of alarm
is given by the pointer, the traspunte, rationing, which,
distractedly, he stopped to watch the curtain agujerillo by mouth,
either ... For this, no 'dramatist' is wrong. If you ask how much
it says "why" of his claim, would be likely that neither knew
replied.

But no matter: we must be sure that no wrong and that there is a
danger that is threatening something that floats in the air, which
vibrates like a snarl of anger, in the din that the spectators will
occupy their seats. The has run the news racks, it has penetrated
the saloncillo author, has also come to the 'backstage', where
the actresses just, laughs, to cheer with the fresh red lipstick
from your lips. For a moment all were worried, "Today the public is
angry." What happens when the curtain is lifted ... And the front
passes a gesture of concern, as those words were a stream of
cold air ... The women are most susceptible to this emotion fearful:
Rosario Pino Suarez Nieves, Lolita Bremon (the devout abound)
before leaving the stage is filled with anointing oneself; Ramona
Valdivia take "their role" and what looks feverishly, making a last
and desperate effort of memory, the same Mary Guerrero, as boss of
his nerves and "its audience, and pales in livor face of the nose
seems to be bend and eyes, big eyes tragic, are immobilized and
obscure.

And is that all artists, even the most independent and strong
personality, they are slaves of the crowd, the great enemy
whose will multiforme hostile beats in the amplitude of the room.
On other nights, however, the 'public good'. Why? It is also unknown,
but it is, actors and actresses and then go on stage rientes quiet,
like a party. Among these, we might call 'whims or the whims of view,
rules are constant: the public, v. gr., on Saturdays and Sundays,
'bad' for the evening, 'good', and more accessible than any of the
emotions of laughter, the audience of the premieres is the most
descontentadizo, but also the most respectful and attentive. But within
these broad outlines, there are inexplicable aberration: there is grace
in the plays of situation or a phrase that Reid and other
nights are not, as there are some dramatic moments at all times
dominate the attention of the crowd, and other, without any specific
reason, the left unmoved. The origin of these masquerades the collective
feeling is what the comedians and ignore what no psychologist has
yet explained. I think such extravagance of mood swings affect the
political moves of the stock market and, above all, time, a night
of rain and wind farm in the nature of the audience, and they warn
that without them irritating and prone to protest, the night,
however, following a warm, sunny days, the spirits inclined to
leniency, the applause and laughter.

So we are little, so little worth, that the whole course of our ideas
enough times to change to a simple glass of wine or a ray of
sunshine! And it is because the soul of the public believe that
the soul great and terrible, is in essence, a soul of moveable and
fragile woman. STUDYING HOW ACTORS Who could measure the myriad of
ideas, volition, memory, of hopes, vertiginously tiny cooperating
genesis of a literary work? Clearly, with evidence that does not
require vertical restrictions or comments that agents mental capital
output are "nervous time" for facing the artist,
the passing of his spirit guide, the amount of blood circulating
in the capillaries of his brain during those Hours of creative
upheaval, and a little behind the main trends of their character,
their joys or their recent gloom, their idiosyncrasies and several
other ethnic detail, offering the history of an individual long
Proemio.

But there are still other factors are all the readings, all the
impressions that were collected during their journey through life,
all its disappointments and ufanías an instant, all that "dust of
reality" that the spirit is deposited on the experience, from afar,
from afar, bearing more or less effectively in the final then the
architecture and artwork.

Add all this, and theoretically (as human calculation can never
fall to such depths arcane), we see how the fruit of beauty, whether
book, page music, painting or sculpture, is the ratio of ideas
crossed the soul of the artist since children more remote, symphonic
chord he has heard the staggering summary of everything that has
ever seen.

The physiology or mechanism that wonderful phenomenon that we call
thinking is simple: the artist receives sensory impressions, the molds
to your temperament, then the returns. Nothing more. The work of the
comedian, however, is more complex because it involves another element
inspiring the author. I would say that 'comedian', while seeking
the personal incentives inspiring irreplaceable nature of his
art, has to consider using the criterion of playwrights to interpret,
and consists of the study so that "direct", which is the nature
and tortuous or "reflection", which is to the authors, they complement
and fortify luck such as "vivid" to confirm the reading, and this,
in turn, ratified and corroborate it by he saw and heard.

Here lies the difficulty of the supreme theatrical art, the abyss
of imperfection that constrains the great comedians endless effort
of observation and study. Please note that the writer, when produced,
'saw' and 'hear' his characters simultaneously, as if after the
"curtain run" against the ideas of the maneuvers in a tiny scene, and
later the actor, if he wants to be perfect, it must find within
himself that those gestures and voice vibrated in the brain before
the genuinely creative artist.

"It is necessary - Iffland said, - that the actor be applied to
explain why the character is as therein, and what circumstances
depraved soul, being, in short, the unofficial champion of the
character it represents. "This is a full merger, an identification
without omissions or sutures, between the playwright and comedian,
a lengthy work of penetration made to capture him as vibration shook
the soul of it. So no surprise that actors like Zacconi as Novelli
as Coquelin, those kings of the gesture that had embroidered the
supreme perfections of his art, have a small portfolio, the Balzac
not abundant, the intensity, welcome to the Athenians, is generally
accomplished At the expense of quantity, who admire the
barbarians. There are types, such as Hamlet, which will be
sufficient to fill the life of an actor. 'My meditations about
this character - said Macready, - lasted until the end of my
career.

"To get such high levels of selection, the comedian will not only
polish your spirit, but also educate your face, your voice and gestures,
so that all of this in a moment, to vibrate in the same expression.

Consequently, much less is it in the case of one asleep.

Obj. 3: Further, these movements of the flesh seem to bring with them
only bodily uncleanness. But there are other bodily defilements which
according to the Law forbade entrance into the holy places, yet which
under the New Law do not prevent receiving this sacrament: as, for
instance, in the case of a woman after child-birth, or in her
periods, or suffering from issue of blood, as Gregory writes to
Augustine, Bishop of the English (Regist. xi). Therefore it seems
that neither do these movements of the flesh hinder a man from
receiving this sacrament.

Obj. 4: Further, venial sin is no hindrance to receiving the
sacrament, nor is mortal sin after repentance. But even supposing
that seminal loss arises from some foregoing sin, whether of
intemperance, or of bad thoughts, for the most part such sin is
venial; and if occasionally it be mortal, a man may repent of it by
morning and confess it. Consequently, it seems that he ought not to
be prevented from receiving this sacrament.

Obj. 5: Further, a sin against the Fifth Commandment is greater than
a sin against the Sixth. But if a man dream that he has broken the
Fifth or Seventh or any other Commandment, he is not on that account
debarred from receiving this sacrament. Therefore it seems that much
less should he be debarred through defilement resulting from a dream
against the Sixth Commandment.

_On the contrary,_ It is written (Lev. 15:16): "The man from whom the
seed of copulation goeth out . . . shall be unclean until evening."
But for the unclean there is no approaching to the sacraments.
Therefore, it seems that owing to such defilement of the flesh a man
is debarred from taking this which is the greatest of the sacraments.

_I answer that,_ There are two things to be weighed regarding the
aforesaid movements: one on account of which they necessarily prevent
a man from receiving this sacrament; the other, on account of which
they do so, not of necessity, but from a sense of propriety.

Mainly the authorities! Read, write, or pursue an art impressed them
enormously! Anders is the case for unfair treatment or abuse, or
insults them yourself! But I must again mention that no offense,
like they say how she wants, a gypsy the other to the court reveal
or show. Exceptions are extremely rare. Even mortal enemies denounce
or nothing to show, because they are their own laws and penalties,
that everywhere and always strictly exercised themselves. Fines,
imprisonment or the Gypsies imprisoned, eg for begging, fraud, theft,
etc. are not considered to be dishonorable, but such punishment
is considered a kind of honor punishments considered. At the
most prestigious and respected among Gypsies Gypsies are those who
well beg, steal, etc., can fortunetelling. These gypsies are always
the others as "good" examples. Such an honor to be named (brawi
Dschuwel # #, # # BraWo Sinto) attached. _Religion_ Which
belong to the gypsy? A difficult question! Before a loud voice research,
it seems to me that one has the religion research (if I may so
express) forget [6] Do they have their own religion?

This answer is, I fear even more difficult than to determine their
origin. It means no use, no icon, no cult to point out that the Gypsies
have a religion bezw. Even had obsessed. We know no more than that the
Christian countries in gipsy Roman or Greek-Catholic Christians, etc.
If someone would have to fathom ever seriously made the attempt? And
if they really have no religion, because they would not bring such?
Who does not know the Savior of the Christian doctrine does not
know who is an infidel, so the heathen gypsy! Incidentally, in
some areas so told.

At other times such thoughts come of
concupiscence and delectation, and should there be consent, it will
be a mortal sin: otherwise it will be a venial sin.

In the same way too the corporeal cause can be without sin, as when
it arises from bodily debility, and hence some individuals suffer
seminal loss without sin even in their wakeful hours; or it can come
from the abundance of nature: for, just as blood can flow without
sin, so also can the semen which is superfluity of the blood,
according to the Philosopher (De Gener. Animal. i). But occasionally
it is with sin, as when it is due to excess of food or drink. And
this also can be either venial or mortal sin; although more
frequently the sin is mortal in the case of evil thoughts on account
of the proneness to consent, rather than in the case of consumption
of food and drink. Hence Gregory, writing to Augustine, Bishop of the
English (Regist. xi), says that one ought to refrain from Communion
when this arises from evil thoughts, but not when it arises from
excess of food or drink, especially if necessity call for Communion.
So, then, one must judge from its cause whether such bodily
defilement of necessity hinders the receiving of this sacrament.

At the same time a sense of decency forbids Communion on two
accounts. The first of these is always verified, viz. the bodily
defilement, with which, out of reverence for the sacrament, it is
unbecoming to approach the altar (and hence those who wish to touch
any sacred object, wash their hands): except perchance such
uncleanness be perpetual or of long standing, such as leprosy or
issue of blood, or anything else of the kind. The other reason is the
mental distraction which follows after the aforesaid movements,
especially when they take place with unclean imaginings. Our ideas
go intellectuals always accompanied by sensitive performances.
This means that when considering those, mistaken for such. I
mean to reflect on them, not to serve them. We all serve very well
each idea according to the circumstances: the bug is in the act
reflects not on live.

We should not lose sight of this last remark. [18.] It is little short
of impossible for the geometer thinks the triangle without your
imagination wander by the similarity of the triangle, as we have
seen a thousand times in the layers: and for this reason, the
building surveyor will be inclined to believe that the idea of the
triangle is just one sensible representation.

If so, there was the idea of the triangle which Condillac claims,
that the idea is just the memory of the feeling. Indeed, this feeling
is repeated representations, not between the two conditions of the
soul more difference, but the current feeling is caused by the
presence of the object, and thus is more fixed and more alive. In
proof that the difference is not essential, but it is only in the
more or less, you will notice that if the imaginary representation
reaches a very high degree of vividness, not differ from the sensation,
as happens the visionaries, and as we all experience during sleep.
[19.] It is not difficult to show how different is the idea of
the imaginary triangle, and their representation, if it serves the
following facts. 1. º The idea of a triangle is : appropriate for
all triangles of all sizes and all species. The representation is
multifaceted, and varies in size and shape. 2. º raciocinamos While
on the properties of the triangle lies on a fixed idea, which is
necessary, the representation changes incessantly, without alteration
of the unity of the idea. 3. º The idea triangle of each species in
particular, is clearly evident, as we see the brighter its
properties, however, the sensible representation is vague, confusing,
and hardly distinguish the triangle of acutángulo ú obtusángulo low
inclination.

The idea corrects these errors, or rather does them, if the
figure is imaginary and is an assistant: the same way you draw the
figures in the paper, we shop, regardless of whether they are
accurate or and even knowing that they are not, and that it is impossible
that they are at all. 4. º The idea of the triangle is the same
for the blind at birth for men with light: as proof that both players
similarly, their uses and geometric reasoning. Representation is
different, because for us a picture of what is seen, which is impossible
in the blind. This, in thinking about the triangle, not in your
imagination the same sensitivity that we represent, or may have,
it lacks everything that relates to the sense of sight. If the blind
have any idea of representing concurrent , it venirle single touch,
and for any extension of the triangles whose three lines can not
be played together, the representation has to be a succession of
sensations of touch, as the recollection of a passage of music is
essentially a sequential representation .

In our representation of the triangle is almost always simultaneously,
except for very large triangles, much higher than those used to see,
as in this case, particularly when there is usually at issue, we
need to extending lines successively. [20.]

What has been said of the triangle, the simplest of shapes, can be
applied with greater reason all the others. Many of them can not
be represented distinctly in the imagination, as seen in many quarters
that consist of, and even the circle, that the facility will be
represented on the triangle, we can not
imagine it with such perfection that distinguishes it from an
ellipse whose two axes differ slightly among themselves.

CHAPTER IV.

THE IDEA AND INTELLECTUAL ACT. [21.] showed that the geometrical ideas
are not sensitive performances, it also showed all kinds of ideas.

If there could be some difficulty, was no doubt related to the
geometry, because these are objects that can be represented
significantly, when the objects are not listed can not be perceived
by any sense, then talk REPRESENTATION sensitive is incurring a
contradiction. [22.] These considerations throw a line between the
imagined and understood; line threw all scholastics, retaining
line, and as it were, more marked Descartes and Malebranche, line
began to fade Locke and Condillac did disappear.

Scholastics recognized all this, but like many others so they
used a language misunderstanding, it was quite on purpose to help
remove it. Any idea called the image of the object, described the act
of understanding, on the understanding that if there was a sort
of way that the objective as a portrait in front of the eyes gives
them the image of the thing photographed.

This language derives from the comparison that is made from
naturally understand and see. When objects are not present, we rely
on portraits, and as objects in themselves can not be present in our
view, is an interior designed to make a portrait of the times.
Moreover, the only things that lend themselves to representation
as such, are sensitive, the only case in which we find within
ourselves the way it portrayed the objects of representation is the
imaginary, and that this was dangerous is called the idea, the whole
idea and imaginary representations, as is the system of Condillac.
[23.]

St. Thomas called the representations of the imagination, _phantasmata_,
said that while the soul is united to the body can not understand
but _per conversionem ad phantasmata_, ie without preceding and
accompanying the text representation of the intellectual imagination,
which serves as material for the formation of the idea, and assistant
to clarify and stir.

Experience teaches us that whenever we continued, we are agitated
imaginacion sensitive forms relating to the subject at hand. And are
the images of the figure and color of the object, if it has them, and
those are the images that you can compare, because they are the words
expressed in the language they normally speak. Thus, even thinking of
God in the very act in which they claim is pure spirit, we are given
the imagination in a sensible way.

Speaking of eternity, we see _anciano of días_ as we have seen
represented in the temples, if the infinite intelligence, we might
imagine a deep light: if the infinite mercy, we portray a
compassionate face, if justice, an angry face.

The work to devise something in creation, we are representing a
source from which spring the light and life and the immensity,
awareness is also an extension without limits. The imagination
always accompany the idea, but not the idea, and the evidence is
irrefutably the distinctions and differences of these things is
that if in the very act of having a deep imagination of light, an
old man, an angry face or compassionate, spring, etc. extension.
etc., we question if God is something that, if you have something
that looks like nothing, which does not respond instantly, that
this is impossible, which proves the existence of an idea that has
nothing to do with those representations and that essentially
excludes them include what. [24.]

What is said of the idea of God is applicable to many others. Hardly
understand anything, but as an indispensable element between
the idea of relationship, and how the relationship is represented? In
the imagination of a thousand ways, as the contact of two objects,
such as threads that bind them, but how the relationship is
something like this? no. Al preguntársenos what it is, nor do we have
the least shadow of a doubt that it could be something like this?
no. [25.] The idea to call any image, it is a mistake, if you will
conceive the idea as something other than intellectual act, and
put in front of the understanding, when it must perform their duties.
Image is what it represents, _como semejanza_, and I wonder, how
do you know that there is representation or likeness? How do you
know that to understand, we need an interior that is as a portrait
of the object? What is portrait, when you go out of order sensitive?
In the exchanges, there are similarities, but not in the sense
that we take the material.

I understand, another man also understands, in this we have a similarity,
because it is in one as in the other, not identical in number but
in kind. But this similarity is a very different order of
sensitivity. [26.] By understanding, we know what is in
understanding the object, but we do not know if this is done by
the simple act of understanding, without the need for representative
by half similarity.

We understand the thing, not the idea, and find so much difficulty in
understanding the perception without the idea, as the alleged
representation that relates to the object. How is that my idea is
for a purpose? whether by itself, then it alone is purely internal,
refers to the outside, puts me in relation to the outside without
needing any intermediary. What makes it so you can make the
intellectual act alone. If the relationship with the idea of the
object, the other idea comes to me, I have it on the middle on
the first difficulty. Anyway always get to a case which makes
the transition from understanding to the object without intermediate.

If I have in view an image of another unknown object, I will see the
object itself, but without knowing that the image is related to I say
it, know its reality, not its representation. The same will
happen in the ideas-images, then do nothing to explain the transition
from event inside the object, because we did not find that they can
do for themselves, what they want to do for understanding. [27.]

On the intellectual act There is something mysterious man tries to
explain a thousand ways, by sensitizing which undergoes further
in its interior. Hence many metaphorical phrases, useful only if
used to call and fix the attention, and given its own account of the
phenomenon itself, harmful to science, if these limits sacándolas,
you forget they are metaphors, and that can never be confused with
reality.

The intelligence we see what is in the things we experience the
perceptual act, but think about him going groping, as if the same
source of light had a thick cloud that prevents us from seeing
clearly. So sometimes the sky is flooded with sunlight, while the
star surrounded by clouds is hidden from our eyes, we can not even
determine its position on the horizon. [28.] One of the reasons
for this in the dark subject is the same effort that is unclear.
The act of understanding is extremely bright at its objective,
because it is what we see in objects, but in its subjective nature,
or in itself is a simple fact of which can not be explained with
words. This is not a particularity of the intellectual act, it is
all internal phenomena. What to see, taste, hear, what a
feeling, a feeling anyone? It is an internal phenomenon, which
we are aware that we can not break down into parts, explaining the
combination of these through a speech.

Indicate the phenomenon with a word, but this word means nothing for
those who have never experienced it too, or has not ever experienced.
All explanations of the world would understand the man born blind
what a color, or what is a dull sound.

The intellectual act belongs to this class is a simple fact that we
_designar_, but not explain. The explanation involves several concepts
whose combination is expressed in speech, in the event they are
not intellectual when it has been said or thought to understand,
everything has been said. This simplicity is not destroyed by
the multiple objectives, the act is so simple that a single object
is perceived as being compared with another two or more. If you can
not do everything at an event, they are many, but at last there
is a link to them, or summarized, but not a composite act. CHAPTER
V. COMPARISON OF THE GEOMETRIC IDEAS WITH NO geometry. [29. ] The
idea is quite different from the representation sensitive but
it is necessary relationships that must be addressed. _necesarias_
When I say, I speak only of how to understand our minds and in
their current state, regardless of the intelligence of other spirits
and even the human time is subject to conditions different from those
that have been imposed their present union with the body.

As soon as we left the area in which there is our experience, it is
necessary that we be sober in the establishment of general propositions,
keeping them to apply to all intelligence, qualities that might
just suit us, and perhaps respect it it vary at all, when we come
to another life. These previous observations, very important to
clarify things that there is danger of confusing, consider the
relations of our ideas with sensitive performances. [30.] Fixing
the mind on the difference of the objects referred to our ideas, then
going from a in classification of these geometric and non geometric.

The first, covering the entire world is seen as sensible in the
representation of space, the latter extending to all kinds of beings,
regardless of whether they are sensitive, those that represent a
primitive element is the representation of the extension; and the
divisions and branches that are distributed, do not offer more than
the limited extension of the idea and combined in different ways,
such, nothing on offer to the representation of space, and even though
they relate to him, he only considered As numbered by the various
parties that can be divided.

Here is a line that separates the mathematics of arithmetic geometry
universal that it is based on the idea of extension, when it only
considers the number, either in certain arithmetic itself, and
indeterminate, as in the algebra. [31.]

Here it is noteworthy that the superiority of the geometric ideas
are not on the geometry.

In the two branches of mathematics, geometry, arithmetic and universal,
this view is lacking in a clear superiority. The geometry at each
step requires the help of arithmetic, and this will never need the
help of geometry. It could be all branches of arithmetic and algebra
concepts from basic to more complications, more sublime, unmixed
nothing to the idea of extension, and thus without using any geometric
idea.

To calculate the infinitesimal, born in some way on geometric
considerations has been emancipated from these, and has become a body
of science around the idea of independent extension. By contrast,
the geometry is needed since its first steps, the help of arithmetic.
The comparison of the angles, the fundamental geometric science,
there is no measure, and the measure refers to the arc of a circle
divided into a number of grades that can be counted: here we are
in the idea of the numbers in operation of, or in the field of
arithmetic.

The same test of overlap, despite their geometric nature, you
need the numbers, as they do overlap repeatedly. When comparing two
entirely equal arcs, showing that equality through the overlay,
we do not need the idea of the numbers, but if we compare two
unequal arcs in order to assess the relationship of the quantity
and the method used to overlay the lower to the higher repeatedly,
and _contamos_ because we use the idea of _número_ and we are again
in the field of arithmetic.

By comparing the radii of each other a circle, took their equal by
the method of overlap, regardless of the number of idea, but if
we intend to understand the relationship of the diameter of the
radii, we rely on the idea that the diameter _dos_ is twice the
radius, and enter again in the domains of arithmetic.

As you advance in the combination of geometrical ideas, are using
more and more the arithmetic. Thus the triangle comes from the idea
of necessity _tres_ number and one of its essential properties are the
_suma_, the _tres_ and _dos_ of the _suma_ of _tres_ angles of a
triangle is equal to _dos_ straight. [32 .]

Do not believe the idea of the numbers can be replaced by sensible
intuition of the figure whose properties and relations is to find
out. This intuition is often impossible, as seen when talking about
figures of many sides. Easily represent us in imagination to a triangle
and a quadrilateral, the representation is something we already
difficult being a pentagon, but still, a hexagon or a heptagon,
and the figure reached in a number of sides goes away sensitive to
intuition, until it becomes absolutely impossible and appreciated by
mere intuition. Who is able to represent in the imagination of a
thousand sides polygon? [33.] The superiority of the geometric ideas
regarding the geometry is highly significant because it shows that
the sphere of intellectual activity as it expands rises above the
sensible intuition. The extension, which as we have already
seen (Lib. III.) Serves as the basis not only to geometry but also
the natural sciences, as the intensity is substantially certain
phenomena, it is totally useless for us to penetrate the intimate
nature and these lead us what _aparece_ what _es_.

This idea and others that are subordinate to it, as it is an inert
no springs which no vital principle that our fruitful understanding,
much less the reality unfathomable depth that can be exercised in
our intellectual activity with no security find in it anything other
than what we put ourselves; dead object that lends itself to all
the combinations imaginable with itself is capable of producing
anything but what they have been given.

Physicists to consider inertia as a property of matter, have, perhaps
more than what they are, the idea of extension that shows the inert
par excellence. [34.] The ideas of a number of causes, substance,
are fruitful results and apply to all branches of science. Can hardly
speak without being expressed, I would say that they are
constitutive elements of intelligence, without which it fades
away as fleeting illusion. Conducidlas around the area that offers
items from intellectual activity, and all extend to all applicable,
for all are necessary, if the intelligence and receive combining.

It is immaterial whether the objects are sensitive or insensitive, it
is our intelligence or other subject to different laws, where they
conceived the act of understanding, also designed such primitive ideas
as essential for the intellectual act can take place. The very
existence, and even the possibility of sensible world, indifferent
to the existence and combination of these elements: they exist in
a world of pure intelligences, even if the universe were not more
sensitive to an absurd illusion or fantasy. On the contrary and
take the geometric ideas and do it out of the sensitive area: everything
about them fundareis words will mean nothing.
Reply Obj. 2: The Paschal Lamb was the figure of this sacrament
chiefly as to Christ's Passion represented therein; and therefore it
was partaken of once a year only, since Christ died but once. And on
this account the Church celebrates once a year the remembrance of
Christ's Passion. But in this sacrament the memorial of His Passion
is given by way of food which is partaken of daily; and therefore in
this respect it is represented by the manna which was given daily to
the people in the desert.

Reply Obj. 3: Reverence for this sacrament consists in fear
associated with love; consequently reverential fear of God is called
filial fear, as was said in the Second Part (I-II, Q. 67, A. 4, ad 2;
II-II, Q. 19, AA. 9, 11, 12); because the desire of receiving arises
from love, while the humility of reverence springs from fear.
Consequently, each of these belongs to the reverence due to this
sacrament; both as to receiving it daily, and as to refraining from
it sometimes. Hence Augustine says (Ep. liv): "If one says that the
Eucharist should not be received daily, while another maintains the
contrary, let each one do as according to his devotion he thinketh
right; for Zaccheus and the Centurion did not contradict one another
while the one received the Lord with joy, whereas the other said:
'Lord I am not worthy that Thou shouldst enter under my roof'; since
both honored our Saviour, though not in the same way." But love and
hope, whereunto the Scriptures constantly urge us, are preferable to
fear. Hence, too, when Peter had said, "Depart from me, for I am a
sinful man, O Lord," Jesus answered: "Fear not."

Reply Obj. 4: Because our Lord said (Luke 11:3), "Give us this day
our daily bread," we are not on that account to communicate several
times daily, for, by one daily communion the unity of Christ's
Passion is set forth.

Reply Obj. 5: Various statutes have emanated according to the various
ages of the Church. In the primitive Church, when the devotion of the
Christian faith was more flourishing, it was enacted that the
faithful should communicate daily: hence Pope Anaclete says (Ep. i):
"When the consecration is finished, let all communicate who do not
wish to cut themselves off from the Church; for so the apostles have
ordained, and the holy Roman Church holds." Later on, when the fervor
of faith relaxed, Pope Fabian (Third Council of Tours, Canon 1) gave
permission "that all should communicate, if not more frequently, at
least three times in the year, namely, at Easter, Pentecost, and
Christmas." Perhaps these are remnants of the romantic theater,
where the protagonist, always noble, and warned jarifo the scramble,
easily defeated their rivals, but the facts are so and what is not
rebelling against the almighty force of habit. We therefore, that
if the 'first actress' is elegant and gallant, the "second" should
be lower, but not excessive, and that the most certain is that
the protagonist's heart fickleness hesitate between the two, and
needed now
is to justify indecision sentimental.

For similar reasons, the second trouser be a good approximation,
physical and moral qualities in the first and the "beard" will keep
some harmony - air relative or kinship - with the 'feature', and
other figures secondary or filler Iran stepped from most to least,
but gently and smoothly, so the set does not offer or sutures
unfortunate violent ups and downs.

Finally, on the payroll or cost of a company's influence, as well
as the contract is or not to Madrid as I said before, that the
artists themselves or they are married, siblings, etc..

Actors are used to collect, for example, thirty pesetas a day,
and whose wives usually have a salary equal to the natural desire
not to separate from them, is recruited by a avendrían be much lower.
These details are important, and that an employer or agent must not
miss theaters forgotten. In addition to this careful balance and
likeness of artists in relation to others, the director of the
company needs to have very well given the kind of literature that
comedians have to grow, so that the architecture fit in comedies
or material and moral complexion of its performers and look up as
far as you like and, because we know that actors do not know how
to move about in the molds and polished rich multicolour interiors
of modern comedy and drama in the romantic and violent, by contrast,
get to know the notes more acute emotion, and others, however, cold
correctísimos, incapable of a truly tragic gesture.

Completed All these profiles, trailers and all these loose ends together,
the employer can put his hands active in the assurance that their
work will not be wasted. Those who believe the people maverick
actors, stakeholders and management difficult, are wrong.

The characteristic feature of the comedian is vanity: this is your
feeling better driver, and sometimes, your best rendaje. So, who
knows this bound by his great weakness, be able to govern their whim
and without effort. MAGICIANS trunks in Paris, in Madrid, to reach
this month, the theaters that are suffering economic crisis that our
comedians called the slope of January ", since Easter holidays always
brought the reckless spending that unbalance the 'having' of
families, with the difference that there is less intense discomfort,
as well as the floating population is very considerable and renewed
a lot.

Contracts players and managers signed at the end of last September,
now complete, with the first day that fades clarities of imagination
in childhood charm brujo de la Noche de Reyes.

These moments are of grave concern for servers and transfer of
entertainment: the _terrases_ of _Boulevard_ of cosmopolitan cafes,
like the airy "Mentidero" the street from Seville, in the
afternoon, and the Puerta del Sol, last night, good and bad news as
a flock of birds stir bench on wheat, the discussions of the
disaffected Arreciado and offers fantastic business that is a blessing
for rain fade for hours after bonesetter diabolical. We must ensure
that during the months yet until May 30, the day that says, with
the arrival of summer, the closure of the main theaters courtiers
and the complete renovation of the companies.

For now it is just change slightly each coliseum staff, to "refresh"
the poster a bit better and thus attract the attention of the ungrateful
public. The comedians who are uncomfortable in Madrid, in the provinces
seeking commitments advantageous and others, by contrast, cities
that passed in second and third order of the first half of winter,
returned to the court for purposes of profit and success.

This swing is short febricitante that employers can not neglect
their business, nor representatives diligent missed the opportunity
to strengthen their companies with the acquisition of the good
artists who are unemployed. The "Low" held in provincial theaters,
go to cover the comedians living in Madrid and vice versa, is a
rapid change of interest, an ebb and flow picturesque and lively,
with a swarm of joy buzzer, which runs across the country from one
end to another.

Because the best theaters were taken as major companies left ...
And in "Mentidero" madrileños only bad comedians, failures, or
the inadaptable the Arisco, the proud, who did not accept the proposals
that were judged by despicable and offensive to their merit.

They are after those ephemeral in the business of _argot_ racks
are called "bowls", which can last eight days, two, one ... For
this, the organizers are seeking an actress or actor of some standing,
whose name lends authority to the poster and the rest of the company
be improvised in any way, using verse indistinctively artists and
zarzuela. On the eve of the
journey the company is meeting to rehearse and to facilitate the
work of the chosen works in the repertoire of all companies: _The
Dolores_, _Juan José_, _Marina_, _Los sobrinos Grant_ Captain ...

The assembly is exactly the same as the least important thing is
that the artists are well known and are coupled so that they all
do not suffer much.

Thus, the test is generally limited to repeat the most difficult
scenes, the highlights: everything else is assigned to his inspiration,
the trickster of artificial decorations and battery.

And night, that night imbued with a strange melancholy that poor
comedians, return to the test with eyes full of sleep, apply to
get their luggage from the costumes that have need for the flight
to be undertaken the next day. Many, many times, I have attended
this full of memories sad. Ah, the good, the adventurers, the
wizards suffered trunks! ... Coffers where sorcery gathered
weapons of all kinds, all colors of wigs, costumes of vivid hues from
separate eras in world history for centuries, and whose sides are
labeled with the name of towns distant from each other by thousands
of miles .

Trunks ¡mages! When you open the comedian who was accompanied by his
pilgrimage in the world, as a perfume gets things going, lights
extinct, lost in the applause of infinite coolness forgotten. And the
artist sighs. Especially women. Poor actresses! ... Appear one after
another with the suit accounting _The girl boba_ the play monjiles
of "Doña Inés", the blonde wig of "Marie Antoinette", the short
skirt and white stockings "the pain and every '; object awakens
memories in them, as thorns punzadores, a hundred nights triumph.

El Hatillo is already done, and lack nothing, now, to bed, the night
is very early and must be defeated. And the next morning everyone
met at the station: they loquacious and nerve sympathetic them, with
their faces shavings and soft felt hats, and all happy, because they
have a habit of pretending. - go - go. Suenan a whistle and a bell.
The train is in motion. There goes the TV, the image of life ...
ABOUT Eleonora Duse Account Ceferino Palencia that some time ago, found
him in Buenos Aires with his company, went to visit his theater a
quarter of an Italian gentleman, a true man the world, intelligent,
smart, good boy.

Accounted for forty years. That man, who had traveled a lot and
personally tried all the famous actors and actresses of Europe,
prodigal Maria Tubau the most ardent praise. - I know - continued
- several comedians who excel in the interpretation of certain
papers, but I doubt if any equals in the wealth of skills, nor the
amazing variety and extent of his repertoire.

Not knowing how to relate to many blandishments, Ceferino Palencia
god exalted praise the work of Italian artists in theater, as in
painting, as in science, Italy was always the most glorious of nations
Latinas. He concluded: - For me, one of the best, if not the best
of contemporary tragic is Eleonora Duse. What a voice, what
force emotional expression of what agility is! ... Can not you feels
the same? The questioning, which had to lividez pale, replied with
an ambiguous gesture.

Palencia, though surprised by that coldness which he attributed to
an excess of modesty patriotic continued praising the extraordinary
art of Duse. At any time, by way of illustrations and interpolated
in the course of their passionate jaculatoria, asked: - Can you have
seen in _The Lady of the camelias_? Do you have seen in _Fedora_ ...
And _Lucrecia Borgia_ ... And _María Estuardo_ ... According Ceferino
Palencia speaking, the Italian gentleman's countenance was overcast;
tightened their factional fire and a violent grudge hidden, her
lips trembling. Suddenly, losing the mastery of himself, shouted
imperative - Sir Palencia!

... I beg, I beg you ... not ever speak of Eleonora Duse in front
of me. It was red, her hands were angry tense, her breathing became
panting heat. Then, recovering provide a transition in voice and
gesture to their fellow countrymen and Novelli Zacconi have admired,
he added: - Excuse me you incorrectness: I could not contain ...

The mere name of that woman dire me crazy ... You will know that I
am the husband of Eleonora Duse ... The reporter ignores the intimate
story of the great Italian actress, but certainly not its intensity.
Forge fierce passions and pains must have befallen this poor soul,
at once sweet and somber.

The existence of hell is also evident on the internal resources
of his art unsurpassed in the black abyss of your eyes, filled
with enormous sadness of having seen the joy in the nervous eloquence
of their hands lívidas, in all attitudes rachitic your body, thin,
devoid of attractive sensual, yet so impressive displays in the
homicide of the tragedy, and so enveloping, so adorable, so refined
feminine, at times
caressing the blue.

The great artist, Sara rival suffered a lot, because his whole life
was love, and bitter experience that informs her art and fertile.

To despair, like to laugh, Eleonora Duse need not resort to the
vulgarity of gestures learned: look with your own heart will have
enough.

I have seen mourn, reader, you too will the dress ... And if you had
the fortune, is it not true that she's crying more than a fiction,
it seems a memory?

About this, a sublime poet, Gabriele d'Annunzio, it could refer
either a sad story.

In these days has Paris run by the grotesque and absurd news that
Eleonora Duse, who has long lived withdrawn in Florence, married
an affluent fashion-Sol de la Ciudad.

Outraged the famous actress, writes the director of a French magazine:
"I live far removed from everything and do not give reasons for
the press to deal with me.

Today I read the ridiculous press release, the agency launched by
Stefani, my marriage. Who could invent that? He telegraphed to M.
Worth as follows:
"I hope his chivalry that allow this news, I beg.

I with my silence I must not allow this' says' slanderous and
contrary to the conduct of my entire life.

"This cable is simply the portrait of a soul.

Eleonora Duse, tired, old, tired of suffering that concern vague and
nameless artists who tortured and rarely found time and rest, because
that love is desire to love, he begins to loathe popularity. For
her, as for many other famous histrionisas, oblivion is precious balm,
and so on the stage of the celebrity, as in the great drama of life,
was always envied the protagonist, now seeks a seat in dark comparsa.

Oh, mercy! A little silence, a little rest, not to speak of it,
that newspapers do not repeat your name over, go down the street
when no one's head to look back: the admiring exclamation: "There goes
the Duse .. . 'before filling their ears with pride, the Ogane scared
and hurt, and disappointed for his poor soul, a plague. Living,
yes, but live in peace, away from herself, as if attending to the
outcome of his serene history, living in the shadows, into oblivion,
which has the serenity of the August death ...

Is now disgust with Eleonora Duse who have received the news of her
marriage stupid ... RAQUEL, LA tragic a room and kept the Comédie
Française respectfully between the crystals of an old cabinet,
a shoe, a white shoe, heel lifted and very fine tip, which belonged
to Rachel. And the reporter, who knew the suffering of the great
tragic story, he asked astonished, "How under these feet so small,
so fragile, so beautiful, Holger for more facts from which skins
to run barefoot on the snow or dust roads, Europe has been able to
spend half ?...»

Because Rachel (Elisa Felix was his real name) was the daughter of
bohemian and the ten years until she and her siblings after their
parents for all the roads of Germany and Switzerland.

Dirty desgreñada, tanned by wind and sun, bare foot and leg, and
rachitic cuerpecito tattered pieces of clothing, the poor girl
to sleep satin surprised where the evening and was in the hamlet
village begging, racing all the ice that has disdain for the beggars,
charity, and in the streets of Lyon danced to the sound of the tambourine
to beat his father on the tragedy in their blood ... piececitos
From Lyon, the family, always walk he moved to Paris. There, the
girls also danced and sang through the streets tonadillas these
cheerful, bohemian songs that seem to float on the roads as a rustic
scent that nomads and nobody knows where they learn. Her contralto
voice and the funny faces your face arrumacos attracted people.
Among these curious, was right to stop a late M.

Choron, singing teacher and founder of the Royal Institution of Religious
Music. The voice of the beggar girl interested him: it was long and
sweet, and it had a strange burning. Choron histrionisa called the
future with a gesture. - How old are you? - The question. - Eleven
years. - You want me teach you to sing? - Yes, sir, I'll be what I
think!. .. his response was swift, blunt in your face cobreña, large
eyes shone artists of ambition.

The goddess Fortuna just
move next to Rachel, Rachel
followed her and ... Months
later, Elisa Felix left singing the school to attend the class
free speech explaining Saint-Aulaire, meritísimo comedian, cool,
correct, whose technical had to leave in the spirit of his disciple
and excellent lasting imprint.

At that time, Rachel was not thinking devoted to the tragedy; preferred
comedy, his days of starvation had not been able to dry the tail
vein of humor. Was indocile, devilish, adventurous and happy
as a kid. His companions called _Pierrot_, and she signed with the
pseudonym many intimate letters to Mlle. Valentina Thomson published
later. The first interview with the great actor Raquel Samson, who
then had to direct it and promote it effectively, deserves
stories.

Small, desmirriada without another charm that the prestige of his
magnificent eyes, the poor girl had just fifteen years and was
met only twelve. Inconsolable, her mother again: - What a disgrace!
M. Samson, when he sees you, tell you that you're still very young.
So, in order to give her daughter greater plasticity and representation,
the wily wife Raquel endorsed in various costumes, some above others:
that was not already high, would be wide . Rachel under his disguise,
laughed more laughs: that truhanería, a genuine bohemian, made her
happy. Thus, the two women were in the house of M. Samson, that
expected. To see Rachel, the famous actor was a rude blast of
honesty. - Impossible, lady - said, - Why are we wasting time?
You are not fit for the theater, you are too fat ... you no
longer grows ... Daughter and mother looked appalled. What to
do ... At last, the mother, acclaimed author of that misfortune only
confessed
his trickery. - All this - blah, - M.

Samson ... all this ...

You know ... is cloth.

The comedian laughed. - Well, let me undress you please with this
girl - answered, - and know what to expect. Rachel entered the
Conservatory in 1836, and the following year he first appeared
as an actress on the stage of Teatro Gym, and a historical drama
of little merit, entitled _The vandeana_. Nervous, passionate,
with impetuosity superhuman, possessing a voice capable of all the
screaming Dantesque repeat of the tragedy, it resurrected the solemn
and bleeding heroines of Corneille and Racine: _Cinna_, _Safonisbe_,
_Andrómaca_, _Ifigenia_ ...

But always, in spite of so many triumphs, she remained in the memory
of _The vandeana_ romantic, his first drama, which came out of
obscurity and, as the phrase happy Janin July, was for Rachel
"_The Marsellesa_ of his days hunger ... "The beggar who dance to
the tambourine in the bohemian streets of Lyon and Paris, died
entertainment, envy, rich, and went barefoot and happy for so many
ways, moved quickly through the glory.

Had to finar his life, thirty-eight years. What actress, in less
time, will have climbed higher? TO BATTERY Edmundo Got The famous actor
speaks in his unhappy _Memorias_ the release of _The mariposa_,
by Victorian Sardou, whom I met septuagenarian with a mocking face
and cunning, histrionisa old, and had at the time Got to respect a
thoughtful sweet face of governess. mariposa_ _The, as stated in
the colorful jargon of racks, "collapsed". "The first event -
Got account - won many plaudits, but the other two were kicked and
whistles, especially the second. The weight of the battle and
what we were Agustina me. Agustina, which does not fit all the
modern repertory, started to falter, as usual, and ended up losing
his head. I was alone and defeated ... or almost expired. However, I
continued to fight valiantly ... "These words, which testify to the
noble sacrifice of the famous French comedian, should not surprise
us, because that heroism, that has filled the history of theater
anecdotes touching, is a flower nobility that comes very easily
on the impressionable and generous hearts of the servants of Téspis.

Necessary to know the life effusion, fever, shock across all emotions
and, in the curtain, to measure the fraternal love, friendship and
full of selfless sacrifice, which links to the author and his
interpreters to the lights of the premiere night of a battery .
Until then, the slow wind during the tests, the playwright was a
small sort of dictator, without whose consent and welcome any
initiative prevailed: the actors asking the intonation of the phrases
true hardship, the painter he made his stage sketches, actresses
he consulted the color of their wigs and costumes, the furniture
stores, accepted his orders without the approval stage director had
not done anything ...

And in this seesaw discussions sensitive, rebuke, amendments,
advice, followed often reluctantly and only because the rule of
discipline, how many vanities Chafe, many small prides boiled, how
many hidden resentments arose here and there, as spines, because the
playwright, despite their kindness, courtesy of the softness in
their replies that he and his vigilant commitment to not upset anybody,
could not, however, to please everyone! ... That same feeling that
characterizes the burning of priests celebrity makes them susceptible
and glassy: Yesterday was the first actress to be angry secretly
against the author, because it, to show that she thought the hat
with 'dressing' the work, not showed much enthusiasm today
trouserpress who is disappointed because the playwright, in the
trial, he corrected a gesture all too vivid; morning, finally, will
the property, or the young lady, or comic actor, who is believe
offended by the unfortunate author, preoccupied with the vicissitudes
of his work multiplied, to leave the theater not greet them with
some affection ... like a big gust of air, the night of the premiere
has the power to sweep away all these small impurities.

No one better than the comedians, you know how much risk an author
in these times, which may depend not only their future staff,
but also the success of the season and the interests of the
community. There is, therefore, to defend, because the man is like
the flag you are associated prestige and glory and money of all.
Then, in front of the battery, face to face with the public, the
gentle and fearsome enemy of artists, small antipathies forget: we
must win, but then, in the privacy and the danger passed, the
bitterness and jealousy suckers.

Thus, there was some famous comedian night and storm losses when the
crowd began to murmur and bastoneos express their displeasure
toward the work, not feeling the desire to do something great
heroic, extraordinary, to contain the disaster. There are many players
that, like the one that speaks Agustina Got Edmundo was empavorecen
shock and hostility to the public but, in contrast, others, more
enlightened, like to fight him arm and arm fascinated by her gesture
and force him to beat to join hands to clap.

About all that, Jose Echegaray could relate many and curious hauls,
especially if you remember the release of _The trono_ a
staircase, that the tragic drama Maria Guerrero, beautiful, gorgeous,
irresistible, stood like a lioness. But as beautiful spirit of
solidarity and sacrifice only perennial late in the relations of
actors with the author. Among them, comedians, separated by a desire
to shine, jealous of each other, were destroyed in a fiercely fight
Taiman and uncompromising: his personal rivalries go beyond the limits
of the racks and accompany them on stage, and there is worse. In
the silent room and throbbing, so easy to clap to the protest, the
artists off, sometimes nobly, using tricks of others to bad law.

Men forget their gallantry, women's mercy. If you can trouserpress'
pisarle "a sentence or a steal effect 'to the first actress, it does,
and vice versa. Gone are the sexes, no one has mercy on anyone's
thirst for glory as poisons everything. The bitterness goes so far
as the comic actor, for example, tell a joke that was not in his
role, or dropped a chair or do
something hilarious and grotesque, with no other purpose than to
distract the public not to applaud another actor that had been
prepared "a masterful exit ...

We shall for this reason that comedians are worse than other men?

No. Why? Will all of us lawyers, doctors, engineers, merchants, in
the great human drama, not doing so?

THE NOVEL IN THE THEATER The huge figure of Balzac, who despite
being in the glorious fullness ubérrima his work, he needed
to write seventeen and eighteen hours a day to pay their debts, is
conclusive proof that the book rarely produce enough to live
comfortably.
(2) Whether several priests can at the same time consecrate the same
host?

(3) Whether it belongs to the priest alone to dispense this sacrament?

(4) Whether it is lawful for the priest consecrating to refrain from
communicating?

(5) Whether a priest in sin can perform this sacrament?

(6) Whether the Mass of a wicked priest is of less value than that of
a good one?

(7) Whether those who are heretics, schismatics, or excommunicated,
can perform this sacrament?

(8) Whether degraded priests can do so?

(9) Whether communicants receiving at their hands are guilty of
sinning?

(10) Whether a priest may lawfully refrain altogether from
celebrating?

[*This is the order observed by St. Thomas in writing the Articles;
but in writing this prologue, he placed Article 10 immediately after
Article 4 (Cf. This hegemony exercised
by the great playwright of the theater people, and proud indocile
course, comes from his many triumphs, of his experience, and mainly
from the portentous power of an actor.

Sardou, with whom he worked, and since Déjazet Felio to Rosa and
Bruck Mounet-Sully, fully imitates the gesture and the voice of all
the actors, between thought and action is always perfect harmony,
rhythm and got rid of their movements, are impeccable.

Therefore, it
seems that not only a priest, but anyone else, can consecrate this
sacrament.

I mute the rhodium: could not escape, and took lower order Todito what
way. "When 935 came Comendante said:" God assist us! "He nailed
them before (I was making the Zonza); it each threw a responsible
and planted it on the list. 936 "Cuadrat," he told a black. "You're
doing the little boy, when're the most fucking everything that is
in payment.

A service is that you do, and why you refer. "ANOTHER 937" You do not
take care you give your family or the needy, visiting other women,
and it is necessary, skull, learn at the border to carry out your
duties. "A ANOTHER 938 "Vos sos too laborious, and when there is a
need to vote to call and send half andás always rise, a sustainable
desubordinao, and I'm going to filia."

ANOTHER 939 "How long have you andás in this game? How many times
have you come to the summons of the judge? No I have not seen once,
you have to be lost somewhere. "ANOTHER 940" This is another barullero
happens in the shop day and night preaching anarquizando to people:
you go in the quota size mischief. "another 941" Denda your previous
shipment andás half lost, the author was unable to ever get to
vote: when you send you spend to call another party.

"ANOTHER 942" You're always in flower: you have no income or job, you
have not done any service, you have not voted once. March!! ... To
let go of doing harm.

"ANOTHER 943" Give me you your ballot, I'm going to have to you.
This is in my possession, after collection, and anxiety, if you
resertás, all you can understand. "ANOTHER 944 "Vos sos ecetuao
because, as you want SULEV; vinistes not to vote when elections were
not worth ececiones you: I'm going to straighten you!" 945 And
that is why he and another for another reason, Todito in conclusion,
without any escape, jueron passing one by one to join in a corner.
946 And there the poor sisters, mothers and wives redamaban loving
her tears of pain, moans of love but do not address these things.
No matter that 947 despair or a mother complaining that a man
leaves his wife in the greatest destitution, you need to shut up,
or smash it is clear that the axle.

Within 948 then engage with this or that neighbor, and, as in the
men, the fewest runs, flies, must walk cautiously poor, I guess. 949
Many went to the judge, to save the game, and made them a cuerpiada,
and to show his innocence, said: "Have pacencia because I can
not do anything. "950 Given that author suppliant, and after talking
a lot," I wash "the judge said," As Pilatos feet: this does Comendante.
"951 In view both desamparo the heart started, it had a mother
who came out with two, three or more children, ahead and behind,
and the bags empty. 952 "Where do Iran?"

I thought, "perish of misery? The poor if you speak ill of this
fair, you are right, because there is enough material for just
such aflición. 953 XXVI When my turn came I said from me: "It is
my turn," and though my absence was little, I do not know that scares
me; I asiguro who was with Jesus in the mouth ia. 954 I said I was
a bum, a player, a lost, that graphical physical that he was
the party of hummingbirds, which had to be a bandit as my antesucesor.
955 may be a has a defect and that it not be reformed, but in
accordance with this naides receive such treatment, I knew it was
Nato who had damage reports. 956 curiosity within me, seeing that
so tell me that Sigur Thu my father a thief, then it will be known,
and who was I Inoren. 957 I pawned in aviriguarlo; promises made
to Jesus, I was finally overcome with a light and joy that was the
author of my days handsome Sergeant Cruz. 958 I knew his history
and was very present knew Cruz, bravely, going to a game, had played
life to defend a brave. 959 And today I ask God to keep the pious
in his glory, it is preserve its history in the heart of the child,
and blessed me to die I bless his memory. 960 amendments have swore
I got it and really, can you say go, if I had faults, I have corrected
all that I knew who graphical era. 961 guen be known that the child
looks like yours and one that grows at his side and his father does
not honor, as a punishment worthy of unhappiness rigor. 962 With a
commitment to amend costant knew my faults, all I got forget, but
unfortunately my name Picardy I could not remove. guen 963 One who
has many names dijustos saves, and much porridge alvertencia not
forget this: I learned that by esperencia bad name is not deleted.

_On the contrary,_ It is the custom of some Churches for priests
newly ordained to co-celebrate with the bishop ordaining them.

_I answer that,_ As stated above (A. 1), when a priest is ordained he
is placed on a level with those who received consecrating power from
our Lord at the Supper. And therefore, according to the custom of
some Churches, as the apostles supped when Christ supped, so the
newly ordained co-celebrate with the ordaining bishop. Nor is the
consecration, on that account, repeated over the same host, because
as Innocent III says (De Sacr. Alt. Myst. iv), the intention of all
should be directed to the same instant of the consecration.

Reply Obj. 1: We do not read of Christ baptizing with the apostles
when He committed to them the duty of baptizing; consequently there
is no parallel.

Reply Obj. 2: If each individual priest were acting in his own power,
then other celebrants would be superfluous, since one would be
sufficient. But whereas the priest does not consecrate except as in
Christ's stead; and since many are "one in Christ" (Gal. 3:28);
consequently it does not matter whether this sacrament be consecrated
by one or by many, except that the rite of the Church must be
observed.

Reply Obj. 3: The Eucharist is the sacrament of ecclesiastical unity,
which is brought about by many being "one in Christ."
_______________________

THIRD ARTICLE [III, Q. 82, Art. 3]

Whether Dispensing of This Sacrament Belongs to a Priest Alone?

Objection 1: It seems that the dispensing of this sacrament does not
belong to a priest alone. For Christ's blood belongs to this
sacrament no less than His body. But Christ's blood is dispensed by
deacons: hence the blessed Lawrence said to the blessed Sixtus
(Office of St. Lawrence, Resp. at Matins): "Try whether you have
chosen a fit minister, to whom you have entrusted the dispensing of
the Lord's blood." Therefore, with equal reason the dispensing of
Christ's body does not belong to priests only.

. * * * * * My last conversation with Victorian Sardou has
been interesting and very long. The great playwright, I spoke of
his childhood, his grandfather, who served as a doctor in the
armies of the First Empire, Lamartine knew how to lead a mutiny
popular on horseback, his first interview with the Déjazet, faith
that immutable always had in himself, his pride possession of Marly
le Roi ...

Through his colorful story, frivolous, full of mischief and
laughter, remember the hard way that the author of "Fernanda" has
traveled before reaching so loud. And then I pursue that curiosity
that inspires all those who, coming from very low, rose much: great
artists, kings of gold, the explorers who violated the secrecy of
the summits inaccessible ... and reflected in this question: - Say
you, you climbed so high, what do you think of the world?

Is there, indeed, horizons that I will never know about? What do
you know that I have not seen? These questions that at the end, I
decided to make the eyes and mocking descriptions of Sardou appear:
- Do not rush you, no worries you, not the extraordinary ever
existed.

Schelling is right: "Everything is one and the same." Paul Hervieu
Hervieu Paul has forty-seven years, has composed volumes of twelve
novels and nine short stories and plays, the work order and govern
his life: his will is strong, the breadth of his consciousness placed
between their actions unchangeable concatenation logic; idea and write
slowly and slowly by almost definitive, as if I would not
bother then copy what they did is perhaps the only French playwright
who has not been whistled. Hervieu gets me in his office: a square
room, cheerful and very clear, with two windows open on the Avenue
de Boulogne, the furnishings are elegant and comfortable, not the
tables or the garish 'ornaments' Japanese abound; books, no fitting
in the cabinets and encroach on the couch and chairs, is an
overwhelming tide of paper, a portable library threat collapse under
the weight of recent publications, however, that chaotic overcrowding
magazines and novels, some guessed management or classification,
the teacher reminded about where your books, and if I would find
one, there is no doubt soon find a few minutes.

By entering the open windows torrents splendid sun and song of birds,
we are in late May. The weather is great in the fireplace after a
Chinese-screen, a good fire burning. This surprising detail, Hervieu,
warning, smiling, making this gesture docile man who does not know
how to rebel against their habits. - You are right ... and it's hot
... But in the end, custom ... Hervieu Paul is sitting at his desk,
smoke a cigarette between his fingers thin and long aristocrat, his
gesture is a modest and sober, but resolved, spoke little and
slowly, and slightly raising the voice to pronounce the last
syllable of each sentence, which accuses the energetic spirit that
graphologists discover that when you write, run up the final stroke
of the letters.

You have the communicative and friendly face, strong jaw, square
chin, and this trait expression and ruminate on the front, though
his lead character stubborn, reserved, impenetrable after the
brooding silence .-- "I am - says, -- like a house whose windows
had the curtains.

"But what most attracted my curiosity, their eyes are large, quiet
and green, clear green; distracted eyes that seem to ignore what your
lips are saying. Although strong, Paul Hervieu is pessimistic and
skeptical. "Intimacy - writes in his book" Pintados themselves'
- you know, is the means to tell a friend what the enemy thinks of
him. "And on the other hand "I believe in the power of sexual love,
the creative instinct.
Friendship, warmth ... are feeling insecure, fleeting impulses,
such as those being experienced enternecimientos desktop during
digestion pleasant ...

"there has been special ever.

Schelling is right:" Everything is one and the same "...

We talk about the characters Production is in the great authors. Hervieu
not understand the vehemence of amazing Balzac or Flaubert, or the
creator of Daudet fever: he begins to write bit by bit,
thanks to a great volunteer effort and no impulse to enjoy the flow
of true inspiration: his ideas are appearing slowly and and trailer
alignment between the rows of a strong and tight writing, where
HEIs have never left your item.

"While work - said, - I keep my conscience slavery, I am like a
traveler who is expected, under the darkness of the tunnel, looking
back to see the clarity of the day." Paul Hervieu began writing novels,
and in the midst of the blossoming then prevailing naturalist, his
books, carefully peeled and soporific descriptions chocarrerías
bad, marked a new trend, strange and very personal.

"Pintados themselves" is a novel by a very strong , elaborate and
penetrating psychology does actually take place in the reader the
feeling of delicate physical pain. The rates are brilliantly
described, unlinked to the letter with the work of the devout condesa
Pontas (imagine that live, as Pangle, "in the best of worlds")
is on this book full of despicable, cowardly artery and creeping
ambitions, consoling the smile of a delicious irony.

Of similar nature are his works "Flirt" and "armor", a book of rich
and powerful logic, where the company appears enslaved, rather
than under the love of money. But those books that gives a note Hervieu
more attractive and more original, are "green eyes and blue eyes"
and "unknown."

"In our deep - the author writes, - emotions occur vague, vertiginous,
through which we understand that a small part of us has lived
..." Listening to the teacher, and under its sedative action and
gesture his calm eyes, I remember the inconsistencies of these
two wonderful books that emulate the best pages of Maupassant, a
nervous and could not read at night and alone. Hoffmann, giving
form and color to his eccentricities, I never knew anything like
writing. The "terror" in Hervieu, like Maupassant, is not and here
is his strength, is the force of 'thing', of which nobody knows,
the attractive power of the powerful and closed rooms of the old
portraits of the curtains as the wind shakes gently at the door of
the rooms in the dark ... A perfectly reasonable and absolute
determinism governs what wonderful Hervieu. A Hervieu crushes
him and the crazy that is independent of the supernatural in his
delirium, the protagonist of "The Unknown" is an insane "logical".
The tragic emotions of this book is powerful, a madhouse surrounding
environment; Physiognomic fans of the hero, who is happy to give
great news for the stripes that look of panic or anger painted on
the face of his interlocutor, the wink suigenérico that medical
covail showing dogs just laugh at the dogs!

under a pilgrim atavistic phenomenon of ferocity, its thoughts about
death and the position that we should let the eyes of the dead
... everything has a unique unforgettable.

Hervieu Paul long ago not to publish novels. Why? ¿Obey bias is switched
to a new inspiration or an idea of profit ... In my questions Hervieu
ambagioso has responded with a lift of the shoulders, and he
probably knows it: at first imagined novels, and wrote novels then
wanted to write for the theater, and nothing prevented him from
carrying out its purpose in the characters sorted and tenacious
like his inspiration is always obedient slave of the will. sagacísimo
The psychologist Alfredo Binet divides the playwrights in "web
designers 'improvisers who write or run to the pen, "hearers", who,
like Curel, autosuggestion in concept, "hear" what their characters
say and write as if the work dictated, and "article", which have
persisted a constant relationship between the word and the self
conscious.

Paul Hervieu belongs to them. "I am all alone - said, - me, speaking
... who makes efforts to express what I feel ... "In his view, capital
is the argument of the work and the trabazón, vigorously logic
of situations, the quality of the furniture, layout and ornamentation
of the stage, not concern. Instead, he frightens the public, is never
pleased with himself, sometimes the slightest objection to an
intelligent actor, he moves to break down a scene. However, it
is a settled, refractory inconcluído that leave began. "I understand
- say - the outrage, the fight scenes force, better than
enternecimiento. This
trait psychology reaches its climax of his characters, even the
secondary: all are logical and strong, "everyone has menton ..."

Hervieu theater is not a "theater view," as some misinformed believed
yes a "theater of ideas, theater truthful, logical, a bit sad,
actually, finally ... which is always "the painful human smallness
of fennel in large social cliffs.

Brunetiere Hervieu says that Paul tends to create a modern tragedy,
stripped of that boring character who always had historical.

This is the great novelty of his work. Does contemporary customs
are unable to go back to the tragic emotion? Is it hopeless life
has fled? The condition of the inevitable and ultimate tragedy
is' inevitable ': distínguense course, the tragic "situation" and
tragic "character." In both cases the matter can only unlink scene
of "one way" and that such conflict will prey on or tournament,
can not follow more than one way: to the pointlessly reason and prudence
advises and tenderness begging hands together; developments are
continuing their course, the characters move like robots pushed in the
back. "What can I do? What should I do what I need to do this is my
question ?...» Oedipus, Orestes, Hamlet, Don Alvaro ...

Everyone! ... But his doubts did not exploit, their reluctance is
also vain; quiet what they should say what they do not want to do,
and as of themselves, marching toward the inevitable, which is the
despair, death, in the sublimity horror. Whatever the degree to
reach civilization, there will always tragic: determinism has
been replaced with advantage, but also diminishes with the old
theory of inevitability, and Paul Hervieu, faithful to the law and
the inexorable laws of logic, resurrected, thanks to the Code, the
legend of Nemesis. remember the plot of "The law of man", and the
two terrible conflicts of 'pincers'.

What will that woman whose husband, hidden in the law, not to
restore their independence? What will the man who can not recover
the child that the law entrusted to the mother ... Nothing: the
fatality of the established, the force, subject to them by the
neck, forcing them to fall to their knees. And "The Daedalus?
Your article taught me an article, well written," Zeda ". The
illustrated Epoca_ _The critic, asked: "Do or do not divorce the
marital conflicts? This is the problem in its Hervieu "Daedalus."
Hervieu smiles. - I have not proposed to expose anything - say, -
nor solve anything.

Composing this work, just wanted to describe the torture of two men
whom the law has authorized dismissals with the same woman. We
continue talking. During the interview, which was eventually saved
Paul Hervieu respectful and friendly attitude, his sentence was always
brief and accurate, and neither the enthusiasm nor the irony apex
down into a calm rhythm of his gesture, his eye sight did not stop
to look fixedly, to stumble out of my thoughts, as gains from knowing
my sorrows, my ambitions, my story ... everything that men did not
have before.

The silence of Paul Hervieu's expression of a disturbing question,
quiet, seems to repeat what his hand wrote: "Let me go through
anything where you spent ..." The typical feature ALFREDO Capus more
seductive and more new meritísimo entire building is Capus Alfredo
literary indulgence. As Socrates, the author of "Vena" cree that "no
one is willingly evil 'men are good or evil, honest or traitors,
depending on the circumstances, so they must assume full responsibility
as the person says and run . Capus, who in their fresh Mocedades,
translated and commented on Darwin, applies to the world As one great
moral naturalist wrote on the pressure exerted on the individual.
Everything is a work of time, and there are never two states in our
soul absolutely identical, as the course does not contain two
minutes of the day whose light intensity is mathematically equal
to: the most often subject to the tiny, sometimes a simple phrase
or a glance of irony, smashing a straight heroic decision. Porfiadamente
Nobody is good, no one, either, is consistently bad: I was honored
yesterday as she was ahito tomorrow, being hungry, it can be a
thief.

The criterion of syncretistic Capus, tolerance unquenchable, his
kindness, never tired, embellish his characters even the most twisted
and malicious, providing them with an "amorality" frivolous, spontaneous
riente, which makes them irresistibly likeable. What indignant
against those vices, rather than ingénita evil man, from his
sad and sobered weakness? Only great souls, able to judge themselves,
feel the joy of forgiveness.

"I know your character - says Andrew noble Joss, actor winner for"
La Castellana "Gaston la Rive, won, devious and envious -- -I know
very well, "I've had" ... Climbing induction course induction and
faithful to the foundations of its first ethics comes Alfredo Capus
fatalism to proclaim a new, original, exquisitely comforting.
Namely: that all men, even the most unhappy, take a moment in history
that God smiles and offers them Success hand. All, therefore, must
receive dauntless insults of adversity, and wait without fainting,
as the Arabic waiting to see happen in front of his shop, the body
of his enemy, the good fortune to give us their generous grants.

This division fatalistically of goods and evils, clearly responds to
certain inviolable laws by Capus which attempts to measure the future
of all individuals. Let us not forget that Alfred Capus is mining
engineer, and as before, his way of judging the strengths and human
errors, appears influenced by the naturalist literary advocate of
'adaptation to the environment, we now subject to the inexorable
approach and mathematical rigor of knowing how all
the cosmic palpitations, since the rotation of the stars and
nebulae, to the first living cell Rebull is the quotient of an
algebraic operation supreme, seeking the balance of the world in a
moral sort of numerical formula to chair the division, it seems
arbitrary and casual bienandanzas and the grief.

In "The Vein" says Julio A Charlotte: "I think any man with moderately
and not too silly or too timid, on their lives a lucky hour, a
moment during which the other men seem to work for him, that the
fruits are to be placed at your fingertips to take it.

This time, Carlota mine, sad to confess, we are neither the work nor
the courage nor the patience.

It sounds like an hour on a clock that nobody has seen ... "The theory
is reassuring: she, the most wretched must wait, with cheerful
resignation, to the time the book back in August of that destination
page is the happy hour of his victory. The active work of Alfredo
Capus has produced a work hygienically clean passions murky, cheerful
and friendly, call to sign and original trace in the history of
contemporary theater. Discussing the purpose of art , Flaubert wrote:
"Art, in its own right to exist, should not be regarded as half.

Despite all the genius that was wasted in the development of this
story taken as an example, any other fable may serve to
demonstrate the opposite: the outcomes are not the conclusions.
"This marks the very high-profile artistic Capus, in which theater
no 'outcome', giving that word its traditional narrow meaning.
The author of "Rosina" (the most daring of his works), not to
demonstrate this or that with his comedies, but all the characters
and situations in each book form a homogeneous, compact, no artificial
or sutures, which It follows, by way of aroma, a fresh philosophy,
fatalistic and eclectic.

Capus, who knows exactly the history of his characters, accompanies
them in their fighting, unenthusiastically celebrating their virtues,
which he knows are shifting qualities, and when migrants ; censored
for the same reason without acrimony and punishable lost their
tolerances. With his admirable productions are remnants of
psychology that, while rigorously logical in essence, the show fresh
after this inconsistency that makes life kind works that are made
easily, without seizures, redeemed those terrible and absurd that
with vertical lines growers of the old theater disfigured reality.
- Our way of being?

But such as are ordained while
separated from the Church, have neither the power rightly, nor do
they use it rightly. But that in both cases they have the power, is
clear from what Augustine says (Contra Parmen. ii), that when they
return to the unity of the Church, they are not re-ordained, but are
received in their orders. And since the consecration of the Eucharist
is an act which follows the power of order, such persons as are
separated from the Church by heresy, schism, or excommunication, can
indeed consecrate the Eucharist, which on being consecrated by them
contains Christ's true body and blood; but they act wrongly, and sin
by doing so; and in consequence they do not receive the fruit of the
sacrifice, which is a spiritual sacrifice.

Reply Obj. 1: Such and similar authorities are to be understood in
this sense, that the sacrifice is offered wrongly outside the Church.
Fu vifta I will take my Remo, mifmo what i did all that in my Barca
eftaban for it, i hafta bogamos CAFI puefto the Sun: but as the
Governor had the most Fana i reece People, that all Havi in podimos
feguir any manner, nor have her. I like vi efto, pedile, that we can
feguir I vn diefe after Barca fu: i refpondiò me that they would
not do enough, that night pudiefen fi folos to reach land.

I dixe that it via the little pofibilidad, in order to nofotros Havi
feguirle, i do what Havi commanded, I dixefe, what was that I
ordered hiciefe? The refpondiò me that i was not time mandar vnos
other, each VNO hiciefe what was best for him pareciefe Falvo life,
that the hosts do not understand i say efto, fe fu elongated with
Barca i I could not feguir, fobre up the other boat which was caught
in the Sea, the qual efperò me, i come to Hall, which was worn by
Captains Peñalofa, Tellez i: i host four days we sailed in company,
TAFA every day by eating fist half of corn oil.

At the end of four days we took eftos VNA Storm, which lost another
HiCo Barca i mifericordia by large, that God had of nofotros, we do
not sink at all, time to fegun i fer with winter, the cold i mui
grande i so many days that padefciamos hunger, the beatings, which
the Sea Havi refcibido, one day people started to defmaiar far:
so that when the Sun pufo faith, all that I have fallen in Barca
came eftaban It vnos fobre other, so close to death, that few who
tuviefen Havi
fent, i among them, EFTA hours, not five men standing Havi, when
i came the night, we were not the fine Maeftre, i I, that pudiefemos
marear la Barca i to two hours of the night, the Maeftre dixo me
that I tuviefe charge of it, because eftaba such, he believed that
night to die: i afi I took the Leme, i pafada midnight, I I arrived,
was to be seen dead on Maeftre fi: i refpondiò me that before eftaba
better, i hafta governaria that day.

I certainly that hour, will take better mui of death not see so
many people ahead of me so.

And defpues that Maeftre took charge of Barca, vn I sleep so little
mui repofo nor Havi COFA lexos most of my time, that source.

And about Alva, pareciòme heard that the tomb of the Sea, because as
was Cofta Baxa, fonaba much, i Efte with fobrefalto call Maeftre,
the qual refpondiò me, who believed that we were close to Earth,
tempted i, i hallamonos in FIET braca, i parefciòle, which we had
taken to sea, it hafta amanefciefe; And I took afi Remo vn,
i Bogue Vanda of the Earth, that we are Legua NPV of it, i gave
to the stern Mar i near Earth VNA wave took us, I miss the boat out
of the game of horseshoe Water vn: i with the big hit that gave
CAFI all the people in it as eftaba dead around itself, as i saw
faith near the Earth, faith defcolgar start, and with hands, feet
i walk i falieron as landward vnos ravines, hecimos fire, Toft Corn
i brought, i found that the Water Havi rained, and with the heat
People around the fire itself, i start something esforçarfe.

The day we arrived here was FEXT in November. _CAP. XI. What
acaefciò to Lope de Oviedo with vnos Indios._
And therefore the
ministry of the priestly power is not taken away from the
excommunicate, as it were, perpetually, but only for a time, that
they may mend; but the exercise is withdrawn from the degraded, as
though condemned perpetually.
_______________________

NINTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 82, Art. 9]

Whether It Is Permissible to Receive Communion from Heretical,
Excommunicate, or Sinful Priests, and to Hear Mass Said by Them?

Objection 1: It seems that one may lawfully receive Communion from
heretical, excommunicate, or even sinful priests, and to hear mass
said by them. Because, as Augustine says (Contra Petilian. iii), "we
should not avoid God's sacraments, whether they be given by a good
man or by a wicked one." But priests, even if they be sinful, or
heretics, or excommunicate, perform a valid sacrament. Therefore it
seems that one ought not to refrain from receiving Communion at their
hands, or from hearing their mass.

Obj. 2: Further, Christ's true body is figurative of His mystical
body, as was said above (Q. 67, A. 2). But Christ's true body is
consecrated by the priests mentioned above. Therefore it seems that
whoever belongs to His mystical body can communicate in their
sacrifices.

Obj. 3: Further, there are many sins graver than fornication. But it
is not forbidden to hear the masses of priests who sin otherwise.
Therefore, it ought not to be forbidden to hear the masses of priests
guilty of this sin.

Surely those who applauded the magnificence of thought and so
resplendent in 'Autumn Rose', 'Princess Baby' and 'Saturday night',
do not remember that dramita which represented only lasts half an hour,
and is nevertheless its brevity, one of its most successful and
memorable creations of extraordinary playwright. "The house of
bliss" is a simple ibseniana. Everything in it is quite vulgar: the
types, the dialogue, the matter.

"Federico", the protagonist, is a model father and an
exemplary husband, devoted to the happiness of his people, his
kindness, his good conduct, the sweetness of his character, you
have won the sympathy of the neighborhood. Unexpectedly appears that
an inspector of court order, you will understood by forger. The wife,
who ignores her husband's secret life, yells: "What have you done,
Federico, what have you done ?...» The answer:" Woman, shut up by God
... Let 'Marriage escorted leave by officials, the girl, seeing that
carried her parents, weeping desolate.

A neighbor says: "Poor child! What is it? If you think the
children would not be anything wrong. " To which the portress responds
with the phrase that summarizes the whole philosophy of simple
and tremendous drama, "Who knows? Also they are a lot of things.
"Today ... yesterday ... Always, every time we read in the Daily
news like: "Last night, the inspector Mr Z. arrested at his home
at x., claimed by this court, on charges of forgery ... "Indeed,
countless are the times that in the great drama of bitter reality has
represented" the house of bliss. " Of its strength, its terrible human
and strength haul lived; force is not of the original characters,
or the novelty of unusual argument, or the artificial brillanteces
style, but the very fact, because in the theater where a gesture
or an inflection of voice, or a buzzer that sounds can have a more
eloquent than words, the rhetoric is less. Hence literary merit (not
artistic) of many modern plays either meager.

But novelists are unaware that beautiful simplicity of the art theater,
used to explain all types and landscapes, they do not understand that,
in light of the battery can respond with a look at a long speech,
or a sigh of love and an open window to make way for a moonbeam,
enough to serve as the denouement to a comedy, hence its baroque
greenery, its vagueness and the heaviness details that the public
will not forgive.

Add to the above the disdain they feel toward the theater, and Honorato
de Balzac did not conceal, and cover their frequent failures. In
theater you have to go 'for love "by vocation respectful, not for
profit, and pruritus bastard farming. It must be love, affection
fetiquista, that life, beautiful and ridiculous at the same time,
show business, you need to feel the majesty of the scenarios, the
religion of their poor cloth walls, its scenes, its skies of gauze,
painted of the trees, its mountains and forests druídicos, made
from wood and cardboard, for "their crowd" to roar, according to a
signal from the darkness of the racks, and also love that there are
such strange composed of docility and pride, conceit and simplicity,
and at times indomable sometimes also manageable and candid as a
child, called actor.

Only then can we understand the greatness of the drama and majesty,
majesty altar of these backdrops that some men get up every
night vulgares before the mystery of life. ESTRENAR PAIN OF A
mixed crowd eager audience in the clear white irradiated by the
three voltaic arcs that illuminate the facade of the theater: the
cars are close trumpet; one after another, the moorland will stop
at the edge of the sidewalk, and they descend diligent beautiful women
covered in leather
and lace, with the magnificence of her hair and the snow from their
throats bare, aljofaradas gemstone; shawls commoners, capes, berets,
Gabbana elegant shiny top hat, or come apart, following which these
strangers calofríos Rizana spine temblequeante the crowds, and after
they disappear through the doors of the theater; voracious door,
entered into a kind of suction insatiable .

A young, modestly dressed, crosses resolved that swarm of women and
men, who look with a complex expression of respect and disdain.

Thinking goes: "Some day, perhaps soon, vendréis hear more
..." disappears, for a port side.

An employee who walks down there in a long blue cloth Gabán, dull
air, hands behind their backs, stopped him: - What do you want?
... The Aplomado questioned answered: - View Mr X. .. I know the way.
And still ahead, treading Recio, and self-possessed. His fortitude
saves him seems "the house". The doorman greets you kindly. Thank
goodness! The intruder goes a long corridor, pushing a wall, turn
left, down two steps, then climbs a narrow ladder. It is "between
racks.

That seems a second corridor street, and it is, in effect, a street
of big and kind of the celebrity world: on both sides of the aisle
are numbered doors, they closed those open. An individual with a fever
of impatience in his eyes, going from one to another hastily, saying:
- A. .. Miss, Miss B. .., C. .. lady who is going to start! The rooms
are open with din, and invade the corridor whispers arpegiantes
conversations and laughter, and frufruteos skirt. actresses appear
shocks, their faces daubed, caught even the last pins, and then,
Gallardo in the middle of your concern, go to setting.

Spend an actor, rigid, aircraft, with an enormous nose and a
mustache ciranesca plate. The newcomer him: - Do you have the kindness
to tell: Mr. X. ..? Comedian, without pause, look at your partner
for top-down and I can feel him as a fledgling author, his gesture
was disrespectful. - Deep in the saloncillo ...-- answer. And it is.
The visitor is Mr X. .. discerning entertaining with multiple authors:
they are there, sitting and forming a semicircle, D. Pedro and Don
Luis, and playwrights of the highest reputation, Mr N. .., very
estimable literary critic, Mr.

O. .., sainetero excellent, Pontifex Maximus of Laughter, and other
writers of history and a lesser amount. Standing, and family support
on the back of chairs, some comedians, dressed and to go on stage,
listening to the conversation and hold their charm.

When you see the intruder refluyen all eyes towards him, and for
every one of those faces mundane and mocking of "theater people",
goes the same thought, the same expression of surprise and ironic:
"A novel author!"

Feel the boy's cheeks in shock, almost hostile, curious eyes of many,
but not overwhelming and confident, serene, with that cheerful
serenity which distinguishes the strong will, toward the group: -
Mr X. ..? - Server you. rose slowly, a gesture concealed in a bad
mood, and goes to meet the visitor. - I'm H. .. You have received a
letter announcing a visit to ... - Oh, yeah ... The two men shake
hands. - Well, here you are my comedy. Three acts. You read, is not
that ... - Yes, yes, sir ... Why not ... I warn you that I have a lot
of testing. However ... - When you want to return here? - Today in
a month. - Perfectly. Server for you. - You kissed her hand. And
after that month and the next, and Mr. X. .. do not read the H. ..
comedy, and many such are the concerns that plague him. But waiting
does not weaken the energies of the young author on the contrary,
certain of defeat, seeking recommendations, he insisted, begged,
obstinacy, threat, and then, diplomatically, is tame, and then pray.

How much patience, how many trips useless anterooms how humiliating
it is the small honor to be read! - Mr. director - just leave. - Damn!
What time will see him - now impossible. Come on you tomorrow. And
the next day: - Are you? - Yes, but very busy. Spend you around here
later. And then: - Mr ... - It has ido ill. - How to be!

Come back tomorrow. Sañudo And the persecution continues, relentlessly,
until Mr X. .., expired, obsessed, read comedy. - Yes - said,
- the work is good, but if you want to see it displayed in my Theater
has a lot of editing. H. .. Without hesitation, he answered: - How
much is necessary. And why not, if you see the immediate victory,
glowing behind the premiere ...

Filled with immense faith in itself, puts hands to his diligent work:
polished, correct, chisel, relieves some scenes extends further
justifies certain situations, the role of Interpol in the first few
sentences actress Plateresque and somewhat emphatic, but surely to be
applauded ... and all that, and "good hair" and put on clean, back
to the office of Sir. - Here you are my comedy, or rather, 'our comedy.
"-- Very well, I will read again. - And if he likes you much,
when you can represent? - next season. A lost year or two ... Or three!
... Well, the youth, for life is that any future time does not matter.
These heinous trances that many writers have come to the theater
before it conquered in the book
or in the press a respectable name, are the run - nothing but the
run - what could be termed as' the brand of pain 'harsh Golgotha,
Calvary of ingratitude, which no author, even the privileged, can
never be completely sure you have uploaded.

Aquella indescribable joy, so vehement and sharp, which became
painful, that the playwright was novel approach the first night of
their debut, is something precious that will shock, and fatal grade
insensitive, during soporific, endless, of the trials.

Every day, from two until five
or six in the evening, he attends to this work slow, stubborn,
purely mechanical, the comedians, who, little by little, their roles
are being treated.

Since the first "test table" until the work, yet learned bad, "down
to the shell, how many hours monotonous, how many repetitions, how
many vacant and error, how much energy off in martyrdom, without
shouting or gestures of Patience!

... At first, he experienced an ineffable pleasure "in hearing."

"And this beautiful and 'sounds' as well - thought - what I've
written ..."

The Pointer saying goes, the players repeat it, which is equivalent to
two simultaneous and parallel representations.

But the joy narcisiano heard played many times, reaching smearing,
the thought, to force resobados is tarnish and vulgarize; phrases
lose their freshness, their elasticity juicy, with scenes of highest
dramatic tension, lose their heat .

What was inspiration, it is now routine, the figures are blurred,
the interest goes out ... and the poor author, bewildered, unable
to recover the stress that he was writing his book, it seems that
nothing of what who hears say, is yours.

Add to that the confusion in the minds torturantes playwright's fledgling
small van planting requirements of the players and the boards,
almost always irrelevant to the friends.

In an interval of the test, called the first actress with some
mystery. - Would you tell me - whispers - how do I 'read' this
sentence ...

I have studied hard and "not feel it."

Add a few comments: - Do you see ... If the cry, desentona
if I say the irony, too ... if I say laughing, ¡worse! ... Indeed,
the first actress seems to be right. Also, has confessed that
that phrase "not felt", and not feeling, how well will repeat it ...
The author then tries to replace a few words, but so, so, sopetón
not possible, the better change everything. - Do not you hurry -
exclaims - the morning to bring you a new phrase!

Worse is that the feature also asked to decorate one another sentence
that exit or seasoned, can be a great flaunting her and says that the
trouser that this or that scene is empacho long and agrees to all
trance feather, and the comedian laments that his paper is short,
and there are few jokes in it ...

Batiéndose retreating, the author promises unhappy all the same
thing - I think I'd look ... Of course, what you stated seems to me
very well. The important thing is that you, in your role, is comfortable
... But her ordeal did not end there. Upon leaving the test, your best
friend worked for an arm. - Your work - said, - is very beautiful,
but in my opinion, is poorly constructed.

I, instead of three acts, had written four times, and almost everything
is now second act, would become the first ... The author defends
his work, insisting the other hotly discussed and can not reach
an agreement .

The friend concluded with a prophetic emphasis: - My son, do
what you want, my honest opinion, and you know, I think that way
for a disaster. Now, you there! ... And when the playwright is up,
disoriented, he thought that his poor comedy, in fact, should be of
little use if no one, not the first actress nor gallant, nor property,
nor The comic actor, not the friend who has witnessed the trials,
just find it completely right. primerizo An author is in the
theater, as the vulgar phrase, "as in chicken corral outside. The
same timidity that informs their actions and words of others,
their way of hedgehog small obstacles. Their uncertainties, their fear
of failure, make it accessible to observations around the world.
Thus, the prompter, the electrician, master carpenter, the individual
responsible for moving the curtain, animated best wishes, will also
dictate, thereby enhancing their terrible jungle concerns. And at
last night's premiere ; dramatic night, cruel, heartbreaking,
unjust night, which is for all the success and failure for the author
only. But no, we are not pessimistic and coloquémonos in an average
prudent: let's suppose that the book has enjoyed a lot. And then?
Little or nothing. The newspapers speak briefly of the new comedy,
the playwright's name lives a few hours hectic life, inapresable of
today, and the public who reads this name first, then forget it.
One night, one night, was enough to shatter and become lighter
recall effort, the bitterness and the anxieties of so many years.

The work remains on the poster fifteen, twenty days ... and then
fell into oblivion. Its author, who by dint of almost hated to
see her rehearse, or even have the consolation of going to see it:
there can be aburriría, we all know that Alfred de Musset was sleeping
deeply and even snoring in a stage of Comedy French, during the
performance of "A whim, his comedy is better ...

That, readers, the scene of the harsh ordeal, and that triumph
filante inane, destructive of that victory as a defeat and cruel,
which lament many authors and in which only the disappointment of
a great pain: "pain released ..."

THE FORGOTTEN errabundo ALBERTO Glatigny The spirit, filled with verdant
greens of Alfred de Musset, floated on France and the star
Hugo divine fire to the sky glares with art immortal, as was a
splendid flowering of youth, mocerío, amazed by the wizards of
lyricism, suffering thirst
Delicious chivalrous love of travel Arriscado of extreme adventures
and pilgrims.

On Christmas Day, however, several masses are said on account of
Christ's threefold nativity. Of these the first is His eternal birth,
which is hidden in our regard, and therefore one mass is sung in the
night, in the "Introit" of which we say: "The Lord said unto Me: Thou
art My Son, this day have I begotten Thee." The second is His
nativity in time, and the spiritual birth, whereby Christ rises "as
the day-star in our [Vulg.: 'your'] hearts" (2 Pet. 1:19), and on
this account the mass is sung at dawn, and in the "Introit" we say:
"The light will shine on us today." The third is Christ's temporal
and bodily birth, according as He went forth from the virginal womb,
becoming visible to us through being clothed with flesh: and on that
account the third mass is sung in broad daylight, in the "Introit" of
which we say: "A child is born to us." - Oh, your heart was less
concern is unfortunate to think that it now makes his own punishment,
for to keep happy! - But as the one who in a quick circular motion
clockwise, even still, if he Again, still is sitting, the objects
speak with him herumzugehen seem, it is also the heart, which had
been violently shaken, not once again quiet. It remains a trembling
Bebung often far back that we can mitigate their need to leave.

Sara. I think it Mellefont, I think that because you say it, because
I wish it .-- But let us not the other a longer stay. I want to go
and finish my letter. But I can also read yours, if you mine I would
have shown?

Mellefont. Each word should be subject to your review, just not
what I have to rescue your say: because I know it, you do not as
innocent as you are. (By the Sara to accompany the scene.) Second
appearance Mellefont (after having several times profound gone up
and down). What a mystery, I am myself! What should I keep? For gates?
or a bad guy - or both - the heart, what a rogue you are! - I love
the Angels, as a devil, I might be .-- I love him? Yes, certainly,
certainly, I loved him. I know I wanted thousand lives sacrificed
for them, for them, which I aufgeopfert has its virtues!
Nevertheless the mass can be postponed, especially when Holy orders
have to be conferred, and still more on Holy Saturday; both on
account of the length of the office, and also because orders belong
to the Sunday, as is set forth in the Decretals (dist. 75).

Masses, however, can be celebrated "in the first part of the day,"
owing to any necessity; as is stated De Consecr., dist. 1.

Reply Obj. 4: As a rule mass ought to be said in the day and not in
the night, because Christ is present in this sacrament, Who says
(John 9:4, 5): "I must work the works of Him that sent Me, whilst it
is day: because the night cometh when no man can work; as long as I
am in the world, I am the light of the world." . [44.] When we
perceive these exclusions made, such destruction, we see the
succession, the time when we count these exclusions, the destruction
we are offering different and unique things, and not like, we count
the time. [45 .] This raises a difficulty. If succession involves
exclusion, and there is no succession, but when there is exclusion,
is that things are not excluded are simultaneous, which reveal the
absurdity of things happen in times of Adam, which does not exclude
the we are together. The movement of the leaves of paradise does not
exclude from the leaves of the gardens, then that movement is
simultaneous with this, then the movement of time is now, and now
it was then: What is an inconceivable absurdity.

This difficulty is serious, the reason that is founded in truth
seems obvious, but it is not impossible vanish. [46.] If there's
one thing that does not exclude anything, not for nothing was
excluded, this would be simultaneous with the whole thing. And you
know what is this thing? There is only one God.

And theologians say this with great truth, with great depth, with a
deep, perhaps not always understood by those who have said, that God
is present at all times, that for him there is no succession, no
_antes_ and _despues_ that for him, everything is a _ahora_,
_nunc_. [47.] But this only occurs for God in everything else there
is some exclusion, and not be there, and therefore succession.
Consider for example how to exclude the movement of leaves in our
garden with the garden of Adam. Those of our gardens, how can you
move? Exist, and also subject to the conditions necessary
for the movement. How are there? For a development of the germs
contained. What is development? a series of movements, and if not,
and therefore
things that are excluded.

There is no simultaneity between the existence of paradise and our
gardens, for those between the first and germ, no means rather than
the movement for the first development and for the existence of our
own, have mediated many others.

Here is the exclusion, being and not the number of exclusions to
the existence, is very different and in some others because there
is no simultaneity.

Considering all the developments, and all the moves of the world as a
vast number of terms, linked together by a mutual dependence,
as indeed they are by the laws of nature, and calling those terms A,
B, C, D , E, F ,...... N, the leaves of paradise belonging to the
term A, and the current to N. [48.] Just as the non-simultaneity of
existence, the evidence is not simultaneity of the movement, since
the movement is a way to exist.

In addition, the air stirred the leaves have now been moved by
another, and this by another, and these movements, all subject to the
laws of nature, fixed and constant, are links between them, until the
first movement, with much need, as a series of gear wheels. And as
the mesh of a tooth is not engaging the other, to exclude one another,
and movements are excluded, which is the last link of the air current
that moves the leaves. [49.] This explanation of and the
succession of time, some said the idea of eternity, and says that
eternity is the simultaneity of the whole duration, it being
immutable, and only him.

Changing beings, including the need for transit is not to be, and
if not to be, if not its substance, at least in its changes, all
involving succession. [50.] It is explained how this idea of time,
is found in almost all our concepts, and is expressed in all
languages. And that man is perceived to be continuous and not be in
everything around you, see it within themselves, in that crowd of
thoughts, affections which come quickly, which is either contrary
to, or favors, or separated, or are linked, but are distinguished
from each other, always modify differently the spirit, and therefore
are excluded, can not coexist: one requires the existence of the
non-existence of the other.

CHAPTER VIII. WHAT IS THE COEXISTENCE. [51.] If the succession
of time involves exclusion, it follows that in the absence of
exclusion will coexist: what is inferred on the assumption that God
had brought other worlds, all of necessity would have been
contemporary with the current; it is evident that we were not excluded
and not taking it further the relationship between causes and
effects of phenomena such as the current world, there is no
explanation that we have to show that the movement of the leaves
of paradise is not era with the leaves in our gardens.

So we would have been impossible that there existed another world,
_antes_ the current and all those who loved God might raise, as
long as they did not mutually exclusion, should all be contemporaries.
[52.] This difficulty is rather specious, if is not perfectly
understood the meaning of the word, exclusion. When I say exclusion,
not only understand the inherent reluctance of men to each other,
and I mean just that for one reason or another, intrinsic or
extrinsic, to make the existence of one, put the denial of the
existence of the other.

This explanation is sufficient to drop the difficulty. [53.] Two totally
separate worlds, they may be subject to this exclusion by
the will of God. God can create one without the other: here the existence
of the first entry, and denial of the second, God can not keep the
first and create the second: Here is the existence of the second
and the denial of the first: Here is a _antes_ and _despues_, a
series in existence.

God can create the two, we can conceive of the two existing,
without denial of the existence of any of them: Behold coexistence.
[54.] To further this question, pause a moment to understand what
coexistence. When will say that two beings exist, or exist at the
same time?

When no succession between them, when there are two: when there is the
existence of one and the denial of the other. To conceive the
coexistence, we do not need more than just conceiving the existence
of beings, the idea of succession, when the idea of the existence of
one, we combine the idea of the negation of the other. Coexist
as human beings, there is, happen, be one and not the others: being
referred only to what this, what past and future is not to be,
just is what it is, not what was or will be . Those words of the
sacred text: "I am who I am, that is, sent me to you," involving a
profound truth, an amazing philosophy, an ontology admirable. [55.]
Where there is not to be and there is no succession because there
is no time, no more than this, there is eternity. Designed to be an
immutable in itself and in all their actions; designed an intelligence,
his will one, always with the same subject, always unchanging,
always with the fullness of being, without any kind of denial, for
this being, no prior or later, but there is now; atribuis did the
succession of moments, you aplicais the work of your imagination,
but without any basis.

Think carefully what you mean _antes_ and _despues_, and I
can move or change in anything, anything at all, and you will see
that the succession is in this case a word without meaning.

And why do you attribute this succession? Because judging by our
perceptions of the object: and these perceptions occur,
have an alternative and not be, even when dealing with a fixed object.
[56.] Take each test in it: two people existing conceived without
add to this thought nothing accessory, or denial of being, or time,
or otherwise perceive the existence of just two people and see if
it lacks anything to have an idea of their coexistence.

On the contrary, wants to see the succession of different
moments, we need to perceive the existence of one, and the denial of
the existence of the other. Then the idea of coexistence is simple,
involving nothing but the existence of beings, then the succession
is composed of a combination of not being with. [57.]

I can make out here, the fecundity of the idea of be combined with
which it is not, give us the time. We have seen in the previous
book, the number of unity and formed the same way, and thereafter
we will have occasion to observe, that spring from the ideas
of being and not some other, that although the secondary to the
breed, however, are the most capital that has the human spirit. I call
on this particular attention, anxious that the reader is getting
used to refer to all ideas at a few points, which are all linked, not
a factitious link, the product of arbitrary methods, but by the
intimate nature of things. What is the extension for sensitive
intuitions, is the idea of authority to the concepts, intuitions of
the extension; idea of body: these are two key points across the
ideological and ontological science: two primitive data that has the
human spirit to solve all problems, and in the order as in the
sensitive intellectual strain.

Reaching this point of view everything is clarified, and there is a
very logical order, it is natural. [58.] Let me comment on
the method that I follow. He believed that it was not desirable develop
separate my general opinion about these links, all the ideas, in which
case it would have been necessary to treat the philosophy of
systematic order, putting the principle that only what should be
the end, and we want as preliminary doctrine which should only be
the result of a set of doctrines. To achieve my aim was to analyze
in turn the essential ideas and facts, without any system, non-violent
means to accommodate for this, but to examine to see what was in them.
This is undoubtedly the best method, so reached the knowledge
of truth as a result of the work on the facts and does not alter
the objects to force them to adhere to the views of the author.

When we experience the application that have the ideas of being
and not being one of the most abstruse points of metaphysics, not
have been an inappropriate time to call the attention of the
reader to miss the view of the doctrines trabazon . CHAPTER IX. present,
past and future. [59.] explains the idea of coexistence, we will
define the various relationships that gives us time. The main three
are: present, past and future: all other combinations of these are
interrelated. [60.] This is the only absolute time, I mean, that
does not require any relationship to be developed. What this is
inconceivable without relation to past or future. The past or the
future, but can not be conceived in relation to what this. [61.]
_Pasado_: This is essentially a relative concept. When speaking of
_pasado_, you will always be a point to which it relates, and for
which it must pass. This is in reality or in the ideal order,
that is, with the understanding that we place ourselves in that
section, we will do this so to speak, and with respect to the speech
of the past. In proof that the idea the past is essentially relative,
you can see that by varying the benchmarks, the past is no longer
regarded as such and is offered as a present or future. Speaking now
of the events of Alexander's time, things are presented as past,
because talking about the present moment, if we sin, for example the
rule of Sesostris, the era of Alexander becomes past and future becomes.
We try to those of contemporary events, this time is no longer the
past and future, and become present. The past always refers to as
a point taken in this chain of time and with respect to this, it
is said that something was or went without this relationship is
impossible to conceive the idea of past, is absurd. [62.] What is the
relationship last?

Comply with the definition we have given time, that we perceive as
being of a thing and then not to be otherwise, that is passed
regarding this. [63.] What then if the percibiésemos be one thing and
then not be, without being to another? This is an absurd hypothesis,
because this is another we always find, even in us that we
perceive being and non being. We assume that we can replicate the
complete disappearance of ourselves, and thus remain difficult. Although
we desapareciésemos, it would have brains capable of perceiving
being and non being.

When there were no finite intelligence, would remain the infinite.
[64.] Here a new difficulty arises because one can ask, if compared
with the infinite intelligence, the thing would pass. Admitting
that it seems to enter the time in life of God, which destroyed
his succession to exclude all eternity. If we say that in the eyes
of the infinite intelligence is not the last thing, do not be
really, because things are such as God knows them. So is the idea of
being and not to be, but not the idea past . This difficulty is based
on a confusion of terms. Suppose that God had not brought more
than just being alone, and that this had ceased to exist: and
look at the results of this hypothesis. God knows the existence of
the object and the non-existence. The intellectual act is simplicísimo:
here, there has not been able to have any succession. With respect to
God there is no past, and if this idea is to implement the object,
it just means its non-existence in relation to its existence and
destroyed. The ideas presented in this view is understood as in God
there is no past, but knowledge of things past. [65.] In this scenario
how does one measure the time the only creature? For their removal;
what if these do not exist? imaginary guess this would not have time.
Although at first glance this result seems strange, it is absolutely
necessary: either we must reject the definition that we have time,
or it must be recognized that there is no time when there is
no move. [66.] In any event these issues based in imaginary scenarios,
it is always true that the idea is essentially passed on, and any
assumptions that we can all be stripped of the past relationship.

The word _fué_ remembers being and not as constitutive of
the succession time. In this relation, the order is such that unless
it received after being, for this is called last. [67.] The
idea for the future is also on the present. Without this relationship,
the future is unthinkable. Future is what is to come, what has to
be compared to a real or hypothetical _ahora_ because of what
future there is the same as the last note (61), ie that he is moving
to change the point of reference: what future for us will be passed
to those who come after: what future for the past era is past
or present to us. The benchmark for the future is always this one: You
can not refer to the past as last term, because this in itself
also refers to the present. [68.]

After all we are all in the idea of the time it is present: this does
not require any relationship, and not only does not need But neither
the consent, therefore we can not refer to past or future, because
both times presuppose the idea of this, without which you can not even
conceive. [69.] Time is a chain parts of which are divisible to
infinity: no, we can not split time in the past: the moment we
are indivisible is an indivisible thing analogous to the point: a
limit to which we approach, not that we can never achieve: a generator
of the extension inextensible . Point to generate a geometric
line, needs to move and can not conceive of the movement, without
presupposing space in which to move the point is, we try to breed
the extension, and begin by presupposing.

A similar thing happens to us over time.
Obj. 2: Further, Christ's words and deeds are made known to us
through the Gospel. But in consecrating this sacrament words are used
which are not set down in the Gospels: for we do not read in the
Gospel, of Christ lifting up His eyes to heaven while consecrating
this sacrament: and similarly it is said in the Gospel: "Take ye and
eat" (_comedite_) without the addition of the word "all," whereas in
celebrating this sacrament we say: "Lifting up His eyes to heaven,"
and again, "Take ye and eat (_manducate_) of this." Therefore such
words as these are out of place when spoken in the celebration of
this sacrament.

Obj. 3: Further, all the other sacraments are ordained for the
salvation of all the faithful. But in the celebration of the other
sacraments there is no common prayer put up for the salvation of all
the faithful and of the departed. Consequently it is unbecoming in
this sacrament.

Obj. 4: Further, Baptism especially is called the sacrament of faith.
Consequently, the truths which belong to instruction in the faith
ought rather to be given regarding Baptism than regarding this
sacrament, such as the doctrine of the apostles and of the Gospels.

Obj. 5: Further, devotion on the part of the faithful is required in
every sacrament. Consequently, the devotion of the faithful ought not
to be stirred up in this sacrament more than in the others by Divine
praises and by admonitions, such as, "Lift up your hearts."

Obj. 6: Further, the minister of this sacrament is the priest, as
stated above (Q. 82, A. 1). Consequently, all the words spoken in
this sacrament ought to be uttered by the priest, and not some by the
ministers, and some by the choir.

Obj. 7: Further, the Divine power works this sacrament unfailingly.
By the beginning of March 1869, we had a general Saxon after Labor
Hohenstein-Ernstthal issued with the agenda: reform of the Saxon
Club, and electoral laws.

The invitation was also the Saxon leaders of the two directions of
Lassalleaner signed. The day before the Labor Party should we hold a
national assembly, with the agenda: the trade union cooperatives.
The rate of Mende-Hatzfeldt it was decided otherwise.

When I Sunday morning from a meeting after Mittweida Hohenstein came,
I saw that many workers, and the nights were covered with mud, hurried
to the station. I learned now that this, supporters of the
Mende-Hatzfeldt, the night before from 80 to 100 men strong from
Chemnitz in the local assembly were pushed to the State Assembly
to blow.

It was a great tumult, and finally came to violence, which the mayor
had requisitioned the fire because the police proved to be powerless
to establish peace. Vahlteich was arrested because he pulled a
stick Degen had. After a few days he came again. The terrible excitement,
these transactions caused the entire population had further led
to the National Assembly canceled, which I did a mistake.

From different sides were congratulating me that I am in that
fracas was not present, the Tumultuanten especially after I had
demanded and threatened to strike me down. Six months later - the
Eisenacher Congress was over - I held in Chemnitz, with great
success a huge assembly ab. After the meeting a number of workers
came to me that on that turmoil in Hohenstein had participated, and
asked me for forgiveness, they no longer understand themselves,
as they then would follow the incitement can afford. Liebknecht and
my desire was long, with JBV Schweitzer a personal meeting and
discussion to have. The wish was fulfilled faster than we
hoped. On 14 February, one of the Lassalleanern Assembly convened
in Leipzig, in which neither Liebknecht nor I were present,
Schweitzer and Liebknecht to join in a public assembly, and
face each other to make their allegations.

Liebknecht declared immediately in the Democratic weekly paper, "this
decision that he accepted with joy and was prepared in a People's
Assembly and oppose Schweitzer to prove that Schweitzer - whether for
money or inclination - since the end of 1864, the systematic
organization the Labor Party sought to thwart the game and of
Bismarck's Cäsarismus games. Should Schweitzer, as he
had once done him escape, so he was ready - alone or with me - in
the presence of Schweitzer's agent and president of Working against
him, or - alone or with me - on the General Assembly of the General
German Workers' Association to appear and to justify his accusations.

Next he made the suggestion that the General Council of the International
as an arbitrator between Schweitzer and call. After the "social
democrat" noted that Schweitzer at the last General Assembly almost
unanimously elected president had been, so the full confidence
of the association have, he replied: After the organization was
the president of his deed, and leave only the General Assembly of
the General German Workers' Association is responsible.

Schweitzer was in prison, its resolutions, could he, the "social
democrat" and not prejudge, but believe it to be able to insure
that it all, including the men Liebknecht and Bebel, the General
Assembly in Barmen-Elberfeld and answer all your questions will be.

Liebknecht be so taken at his word. In an arbitration in terms of its
president could the General German Workers' Association is not taking.
We were impressed by this answer, apparently Schweitzer himself had
written, very satisfied. In the course of which the matter taken, and
the sensation which they had made two camps, Schweitzer could not
dodge. The fact that he fought for our admission to the General
Assembly decided us was right, although we do not, strictly speaking,
there were not, because we are not members of the General German
Workers' Association were.
Hence David said (1 Para 29:17): "In the
simplicity of my heart, I have . . . offered all these things: and I
have seen with great joy Thy people which are here present, offer
Thee their offerings": and then he makes the following prayer: "O
Lord God . . . keep . . . this will."

Then, regarding the consecration, performed by supernatural power,
the people are first of all excited to devotion in the "Preface,"
hence they are admonished "to lift up their hearts to the Lord," and
therefore when the "Preface" is ended the people devoutly praise
Christ's Godhead, saying with the angels: "Holy, Holy, Holy"; and His
humanity, saying with the children: "Blessed is he that cometh." In
the next place the priest makes a "commemoration," first of those for
whom this sacrifice is offered, namely, for the whole Church, and
"for those set in high places" (1 Tim. 2:2), and, in a special
manner, of them "who offer, or for whom the mass is offered."
Secondly, he commemorates the saints, invoking their patronage for
those mentioned above, when he says: "Communicating with, and
honoring the memory," etc. Thirdly, he concludes the petition when he
says: "Wherefore that this oblation," etc., in order that the
oblation may be salutary to them for whom it is offered.

Then he comes to the consecration itself. Here he asks first of all
for the effect of the consecration, when he says: "Which oblation do
Thou, O God," etc. Secondly, he performs the consecration using our
Saviour's words, when he says: "Who the day before," etc. Thirdly, he
makes excuse for his presumption in obeying Christ's command, saying:
"Wherefore, calling to mind," etc. Fourthly, he asks that the
sacrifice accomplished may find favor with God, when he says: "Look
down upon them with a propitious," etc. Fifthly, he begs for the
effect of this sacrifice and sacrament, first for the partakers,
saying: "We humbly beseech Thee"; then for the dead, who can no
longer receive it, saying: "Be mindful also, O Lord," etc.; thirdly,
for the priests themselves who offer, saying: "And to us sinners,"
etc.

Then follows the act of receiving the sacrament. Was a city from the
plane and had emigrated to the mountains verstiegen? A strange building
with a high roof and a pointed tower stood from the shingle roofs
in the air, and above the black tower hatches penetrated an
inexplicable amounts and Schaller indicated that he had never belonged,
and that in his solemn monotony made him completely dismayed. The
horror but in the whole fairy tale, took him to his senses healthy
doubt had met him when he was the first huts of the upper small village
approached. A sharp, rotgetünchten roof boards hung as a man with
outstretched, bloodthirsty arms nailed to a cross, a bleeding wound
site, the forehead of large drops of blood überquollen, under the
pointed spikes a thick wreath of thorns hervordrangen.

Nevertheless, the martyred still alive. He had his eyes wide open
top, and have the trained eye of the Centaurs was also on the bare
limbs are not yet the color of putrefaction. He talked to the poor
little man with his friendliest voice, asked, to what crimes it
so difficult atone leave, whether he might, by his martyrdom, and
the wood herunterhelfen wounds should connect.

When he received no reply, he gently touched the breast of the silent
consent. As he remarked that there is only a wooden image was. A rose
bush was near the trunk of the Cross planted. He plucked from the
branches a little, it smelled like something sweet to enjoy, and
then left the place with eerie always amazed.

The village had just the pastor, an old man, the joys Kirchweih
was long dead, for the others remained at home Invalidenstraße
started a Vespers service at which the young boys the bells worried.

When the stranger, the everything to him left and right in the eyes
fell was a puzzle to open the church came, and he peered curiously
into the semi-interior. A ray of sunshine fell through the small side
window next to the altar and lighted the picture of a beautiful
woman with golden hair in blue and red robe with a boy in her arms,
and a lily in his hand was. She had a large, gentle eyes straight
on him, as if they invite him, to come near. At their feet, turning
his back, stood in the little priest vestments, and the community
all knelt now, like him, before the beautiful woman.

You should come into it but you and they look a little closer,
the stranger said to himself, and thought and done. He trotted
without something evil to think through the portal and straight on the
stone tiles, which, by his mighty Hufschlag booms, on the altar.

What a spectacle that was, one can imagine. In the first moment of
horror indeed petrified about this desecration of the temple through
a so unprecedented, straight hell monster emerged reverently the
entire community and its pastors.

But then bethought this, despite his eighty years is not a Don
Abbondio was that the intruder no one else than the devil incarnate
can be raised, what he is Sanctified had in his hand, and cried, it
shields against the tempter, with his loud voice "Apage!

Apage! Apage and again!" - When Zeus, said the centaur, which pleased
me, finally a man speaking to meet the yet to speak Greek. You
will see me now you can probably tell, age, who is this beautiful
woman is whether she is still alive, what you drive here, and how
absolutely everything since yesterday so fabulous has changed .--
The curate overflowed it cold, as he from the evil enemies listened
to address, even in a language that he was of course Greek. Again
he raised his reputation, and proposed a cross on the other important
but a little back from the altar, as it the impartiality of the high
intimidates residents, and that this would not be around, who knows
how it would have expired.

But now came the series to be afraid of our Roßmenschen. Because, as
he disturbed by the terror loose heads of old men and the
withered faces of elderly women in all their high Pelzhauben gaze
saw him suddenly overcome the fear that he would like in a Konventikel
of witches and wizards come and suffer punishment, if he agrees
with it secret nature disturb even longer. So he made after he was the
beautiful one-eyed view zugeworfen veneration, at once and flew back
with huge sets, like the tail to ward off evil spirits high by
hitting back, reverberating through the pavement to open door.
Dear friend, says 'I, as he sent me all of my honesty gebeichtet
and clarification had only half understood, you are in an enchanted
location.

As you go and there is, let it difficult to keep you in the modern
society, a place to bring your gifts to the claims and watched.
Your Wäret only a few centuries earlier thawed, such as the Cinquecento,
it would have to do everything. You would have you go to Italy,
where everything was in very ancient times and was also host to your
pagan Nackheit nobody is annoyed would have. But nowadays, and
this engbrüstigen, breitstirnigen, verschneiderten and coupage
Lumpenbagage that the modern world is called - I'm afraid, caro mio,
you will be very sorry not to prefer the most recent day in the
ice remains to be! Where you see let, in cities or in villages, the
streets are you guys running with rotten apples at each, the old
women are screaming and the Zeter parsons you for the Gottseibeiuns
spend. The zoologists will touch you and begaffen and then say
you would a monster Inorganic and could do nothing better than
you a little vivisection carried out so that you would like your
human stomach with gastric agree with your horse. Are you but the
Scylla of Sciences escaped, so you fall into the Charybdis of art
scholars, the face you say that you are a shameless anachronism, a
stillborn only electrically animated relic from the time of the
Parthenonfrieses are, and the artists, the only Wämser pants
and still run funny paltriness paint can be virtuous in their arms
supply centers, called Kunstvereine, zusammenrotten and the police
to request that you be expelled, as the public morality in the highest
degree dangerous. That could get your practice, even as a horse doctor,
is completely unthinkable. It now has a very different natural
remedies, as to your time, learned of the many other systems to
manage and that a doctor's bedside before the Equipage brings, is
outrageous.

So nothing would remain as the circus or menagerie, in order to earn
your bread, and far be it from me, as a man of good family, like
your such a humiliation reasonably. No, best to tell us something Gesch
Eiteres change, I want my own little poverty share with you.

If I remember right, I'm not that much better than yours, I must also
streets of boys and bigoted Vetteln, aesthetics and value my own
colleagues, the largest Schnödigkeiten put up and see that I'm still
alive and I feel in my own skin a thousand times more comfortable
than all that riffraff Gewürm and that I do not treat life.
Coraggio! ANIMO, amico mio! This red wine is not just a revenge
acidic cleaner, but you will you not too often in nectar amicably done,
and corpo della Madonna! when two guys with one another
right fraternity drinking, so they ennoble the ordinärsten drops. This
I handed him my bottle, which again filled Nanni had sounded and,
elevating the glass with him, to which he was to a whole new need
a baffled Face made.

I then motioned to the girl, for new supply to ensure, so soon we swam
in abundance and were of good things. By and by making our Kordialität
the peasant folk confidential. Some of the brave ventured back
into the yard and moved because they zuleide nothing happened, and
soon the other kind. You besahen now the stranger carefully from all
sides.

The Jew Anselm Freudenberg, the horses involved, said loudly that
several thousand Loisdors such a gift would be half stallion, would
not only the front part in unnatural ways. Despite the major advances
in the military still had no cavalry horses introduced, where their
riders were grown. A cheeky lass took a miracle to touch and pet the
soft fur on the bow to stroke. This encouraged the blacksmith of the
village, carefully lift the left hindfoot, which is the Centaur,
which is the seventh to the lips Seidel continued, all in good
nature had happened. It was incredibly, that the strong,
light-brown hooves do not track any fitting showed otherwise, and
also because so much was very different than for other riding
horses, raised the question of what race they belong to. Finally, after
a long controversy, the schoolmaster of the tat expression, since
all other indicators were missing, it will probably be the
Caucasian race, whereas even the Jew Freudenberg nothing knew.

While the public opinion is just with the heath seemed Greuel and
reconcile he at least what one called succès d'estime, davontrug,
was a malicious conspiracy against the unsuspecting stranger in
progress. At the top was of course the highly dignified clergy
who for the salvation of their parishioners were very detrimental to
a ungetauften certainly, completely naked, and very likely immoral
Beastmen closer severely limited. Equally
upset, albeit for other reasons, said the Italians, the owner of
the stuffed calf with two heads and five legs.

Since the stranger had appeared, he had his bad Mißgeburt business
is done.

The free Roßmenschen saw that he was alive and drinking and
talking, and who knew if he did not even move a few pieces of
equestrian art at the best to give what the calf would not be made
mine.

The Italians were not so quietly watch. There was a difference, he
addressed the priest, between a rustic, approved by the police
natural game and a very improbable, unprecedented Mißgeburt, without
passport and license the country unsafe, and do honest fünfbeinigen
calves in front of the bread wegstehle Maule. If the custom would only
that such moon calves without Entrée could see, it would be even
more not worth the trouble, with a head too little or too few limbs
in the world to come. The heated but was the village tailor, the
bridegroom of the beautiful Nanni. He had though, as the monster
herantrabte, head over heels from the porch into the house and
fled his treasure, which is not feared, abandoned.

But he saw through the window with the more grim, as the
confidential flash girl with the high Mr schäkerte his roses
and adopted him wohlgefällig considered, while he had to taste their
wine. What of the stranger on the chest Defense stands out, it was
probably likely to satisfy the wrong Schneider turned in relation
to his own poor person to be jealous.

In addition, Nanni him when he was her improper conduct of their
alleged that saucy enough dispatched and responded: they embitter
that's, that he insolent strangers shares a guy, a naked beast,
a curse Staatsmähre.

He had manners and decent than some people, thirteen of which
went to the dozen, and some may be happy when they are needed less
to be ashamed of themselves naked to show .-- It was the barrel
from the ground. Although the girl is wrapped over the insulted
in a naserümpfendes silence, but his mouth was the work of unbridled
run to the Lord pastor, which he lamented his plight: the new
fashion, which is the unknown which is necessary to consider the
entire Schneider ruined the craft and also all the terms of decency
and good practice on the pile of throw.

From this cabal of course we knew nothing, but let us through the rest
of the growing confidentiality Kirchweih guests more and more in
the merry mood corresponding feast. Enjoyed plenty of wine did the
rest, and so my new little Duzbruder the people around us here
in the high hats and bonnets, with heavy boots, short jackets and
skirts, diverse liked, but he was wohlgesittet enough to remember
not to leave and no dismissed him the full glass hinaufreichte.

Especially after but rose to haunt him the head, his eyes began to
shine, he could hear some natural sounds, the land between the
ordinary and usual Juhschreien the middle Pferdegewieher held, and
now as the musicians who had a long pause, a fresh grinder initiated
, reached our friend, without a word to say, with both arms on the
parapet, covered the beautiful Nanni, and placed it with a slight
swing to the back, by making them by signs anwies, in his flowing
mane noted.

Then he began after the bars of the music is very graceful in motion
and to bring in the narrow spaces between tables and
benches in the changing Courbetten test to show his art, while the
lively lass, her arms tightly around his body slung people, now
and then with the heel of her small shoe he ran into the side,
making it a faster pace to Linux.

The spectacle was so allerliebst with that, all the other dancers came
out with prostitutes and to watch, in a tight circle around the couple
herumstellten . I am just annoyed that I forgot my sketchbook and
never had a scrap of paper was distributed.

So I had to content myself with the eyes to study, and indeed, I
could not see enough of in the hundreds of different applications and
groups, as they always wanton and wild herumwirbelnde dancing to
let me vorübergaukeln.

As it took about a quarter of an hour had adopted the glory suddenly
to an end with terror. Coincidentally, I saw once on the yard out
into the valley below and saw a worrying cavalcade, which is on the
road up the valley from the village approached a half-dozen mounted
police and the country among them, with eager gestures after the
inn hinaufdeutend, two civilians small Bauernkleppern in which I,
as they came closer and the two doggedly Kabalenmacher, the Italians
and the village tailor, recognized.

I called my friends and my best Duzbruder in Greek, he may wish to
be alert and that it was him apart. We wanted, as it seems, dead
or alive conquer his person and the whole revenge of the Philistines
in his mane Simson omit. But it was in vain. Be it that the music
my warning übertäubte, or that the noise of the excellent dance
bacchantischen against each burst of fear immune had enough, he was
only a moment inne, when the armed power - the informers wisely
stayed behind -- Hoftor appeared on the crowded audience frightened
retreat and now a leader of the gang of henchmen, a moustached
corporal with a thick belly, in allergröbsten sound the call was
made to him: on his body or his passport Wanderbuch authorities,
failing which he referred to the bottom of the Fronfeste town, and
would be thoroughly visitiert.

The good boy of course, understood not a word, was also hostile
to the meaning of the words not guessed, since he made his heroic
world other terms of hospitality had brought. So he looked up with a
funny expression of perplexity to me after, and only when I had explained
to him that this breitmäuligen men were hunters and the game, and that
the meaning did it in a stable block, where he with narrow feed on the
boon of the law and the progress of culture could think, was a
contemptuous smile on his honest face.

He replied only with a shrug, then continued, as he see this incident
is not in the least, slow gallop again, and he hands the girl who
crossed before his chest, gently squeezing itself, and so, ever
more rapidly and faster in the narrow circles herumsprengend, he
suddenly ersah the opportunity, took a bold start and continued
with a magnificent leap - honestly probably twelve and twenty high
Schuhstraße far - over the heads of the farmers away, that only the
last, which stood outside, the hats flew from the skulls.

And while the women, according aufschrien, cursing the police and towed
side with him to put gun, even a few harmless pistol bullets nachknallten
him, he sprinkled on lawns and fields climb, the kidnapped girl safely
back to his holding, as a lion, a lamb from a sheep fold and
it has robbed under the threat of screaming and nachjagenden
shepherd in his cave bears. As it was the top, where a deep gorge
cuts through the hillside, he stopped and turned to his pursuers
to that are still far below him in impotent rage, the Steep
hinaufkeuchten. I was able to save face, even through my small
telescope, no more clearly, but saw that he was to the girl turned
back, and now, probably from their fear and their pitiful pleas
stirred, letting go her hands, so that it gently from his back to
the meadow could glide down.

Their situation, however, was not the most pleasant. As much as her
chivalric honor of the stranger was flattered, and a sad figure as
her treasure played beside him, - a robust supply of this, she could
not expect foreigners horseback. As she noted, therefore, that the
seriousness of fun to be retained its practical nature the upper
hand, and they fought against all decided abduction cravings. Like a
hunted chamois before the driver jumped from stone to stone her
down the slope back into the Schneider arms. The centaur looked
after her for a while, and my imagination painted a clear expression
of a divine Hohner, which flashed through his mines and then a sublime
melancholy key. As the wild hunt with him shriek and bluster on the
width of a stone throw came near, he waved again with his hand down
- a greeting, which I probably could learn me alone - then pans left
with an almost challenging phrase its hind part, to the right and
disappeared from our eyes after bristling pfadlosen in the gap,
never to reappear. We had all listened reverently, Rahl just seemed
to sleep, at least winked his slit Satyraugen suspect in the
moonlight. When the narrator is now silent, he did a deep sigh and
rose from the seat to the wall herumtastend as to his hat from the
hook to take. Accidente! do you have going! Genelli said. Get the
plague all the cowardly sleeping caps! We are in the best part - the
story has given me the tongue parched - another nickname, Mr.

Shimon! On the health of all revenant, the Centaurs included.
They have no permanent place in this miserable nineteenth century
and have to leave again hinausmaßregeln. But tell yourself: if you
had to choose between the cutters, the happiness and the bride
heimführt, and that poor lad - I at least as long as a drop
of red - but corpo di Bacco! Shimon, where's my Carlo jokes? The
landlord approached with reverence, mysterious face, you know, Mr.
Genelli, he whispered to him, if it ankäme on me - but the best
will - the instructions are only recently have been tightened, and
I have a wiper get up here because I have half a minute after one-Ah
so, muttered the old masters and was unwilling to. Always the
eternal problems. The night is still long enough, and whether we are
up here once with the closing time will not be exactly who hurts
you?

But it is a low drip, and the blessed Achilleus is right: Better a
day laborer in the light, as king of the shadows! Give me a hand,
the contactor. It is so accursed dark, or should my story to his head?
Where is the little Karl, we heimzuleuchten? Felice notte! That he
went lightly on the arm of a friend leant lean forward, not with his
old sprightly step and an upright posture, but barhaupt, and so the
others followed him.

The small Karl fluctuated, a basement light high above his head
holding, advancing, Shimon was the last and waited at the door on
me, as if he wanted to finish behind me. He did not, spoke not a word
to me, but just looked at me with a twinkle of his little melancholy
black eyes, when he wanted to say: we have seen better days!
- While we are through the long dark corridor exceeded, fell to me
that I did not kick heard. And then of course also wanted to no
end, so we hastily hindurchgingen.

I saw more clearly on the crest of the other away Genellis gray
twilight of the main tower, which lights red angeschienen. It was my
heart that I am still so much he had to say, mainly wanted to ask
him when he again had to take.

Reply Obj. 9: Two things can be signified by the chalice: first, the
Passion itself, which is represented in this sacrament, and according
to this, by the part put into the chalice are denoted those who are
still sharers of Christ's sufferings; secondly, the enjoyment of the
Blessed can be signified, which is likewise foreshadowed in this
sacrament; and therefore those whose bodies are already in full
beatitude, are denoted by the part put into the chalice. If there is
no homework then went to school and to clumsily answered and many do
not know, be very ashamed of it - especially if the teacher before him
then all the children said: "That I would not expect from you,
Wiseli, du warst always at the brightest. " Then it is often said
that we should sink into the ground before the shame, and afterwards
it was crying throughout the home.

Chäppi But that could not answer it, it does not know what to
do it. Otherwise, he railed and noise until my aunt came and
Chäppis accusations that the Wiseli certainly his alleged negligence.
Then the child is sometimes suppressed his tears, and only afterwards
on his cushions they had free rein. And then they came hot and
heavy, because it was him as if God and the mother is completely
forgotten and nobody in the world to care for his life. In his grief,
it could often be long consolation song not say . It came to
rest and none could never fall asleep until it is right the words
together and had prayer with them can tell him where the good is
not quite confident in the heart wanted to work out.

Wiseli Sun was also asleep on a beautiful July evening and in the
morning that it was timid on the bottom of the table, than the
boys to school war. It dared not to ask whether it should go, because
the aunt seemed no time to respond to, and the uncle had already
left the house. Now the boys ran away. Wiseli looked after them
through the open window, where they are between the high meadow
flowers hinsprangen and over their heads, the white butterflies
in the morning sun umherflogen. The aunt had prepared a large
laundry. It was probably this week on Waschtrog spend? True, she
called after him from the kitchen. Now called the uncle after Wiseli.
He stood at the well and saw it at the window. "Do, do, Wiseli,
it's time, the boys are so far ahead. The hay is inside, do that you
come to school!" It was not twice Wiseli say. Like a flash it covered
with his school bag and ran out the door.

"Tell the teacher," cried the uncle after him, "you have been a
long time now not missing.
Hence it
is for the sake of greater solemnity that we find it decreed (De
Consecr. dist. 1) that a bishop is to solemnize mass with several
assistants. Nevertheless, in private masses it suffices to have one
server, who takes the place of the whole Catholic people, on whose
behalf he makes answer in the plural to the priest.
_______________________

SIXTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 83, Art. 6]

Whether the Defects Occurring During the Celebration of This
Sacrament Can Be Sufficiently Met by Observing the Church's Statutes?

Objection 1: It seems that the defects occurring during the
celebration of this sacrament cannot be sufficiently met by observing
the statutes of the Church. For it sometimes happens that before or
after the consecration the priest dies or goes mad, or is hindered by
some other infirmity from receiving the sacrament and completing the
mass. Consequently it seems impossible to observe the Church's
statute, whereby the priest consecrating must communicate of his own
sacrifice.

Obj. 2: Further, it sometimes happens that, before the consecration,
the priest remembers that he has eaten or drunk something, or that he
is in mortal sin, or under excommunication, which he did not remember
previously. Therefore, in such a dilemma a man must necessarily
commit mortal sin by acting against the Church's statute, whether he
receives or not.

When things exist in God, are nothing other than God, are represented
in the infinite intelligence, which with all its
representations, it is essentially infinite. Compare because the
existence of finite things in their essence, as is found in God, is
radically different state of affairs, and find the relationship
of the existence of things, not with their individual essences, but
with representations of divine understanding. [92.] You can argue
that the existence of finite beings is the same as its essence, it
is essential that there be such beings, because nothing more
essential to the very essence, then the finite beings exist by
necessity because everything that belongs to the essence is necessary.

The radius of a circle are all equal, because equality is contained
in the essence of the circle just as if the existence belongs to the
essence of things, least of these may not exist, and there
would be no real contradiction. This difficulty is based on the ambiguous
meaning of the word _esencia_, and the lack of accuracy with which
bind the essential ideas and needs.

The relationship of the essential need, because they fall in contradiction.
The radius of the circle are equal because the same idea comes
from the circle and equal, and therefore if it refuses, it would
affirm and deny the same time. The contradiction does not exist
when compared with other properties, and this comparison is not where
the essence and existence.

So do not compare one thing with another, but one thing with itself,
if it introduces the distinction, it is not related to two things,
but one, which is considered under two aspects, or in two states:
in the ideal order and the real. When we deal with the substance
regardless of the existence, the object is the set of properties
to be given such and such a nature that such overlooking or not
there was, and only response to that would be if any.

In all that we affirm or deny the same, wrap it expressly or impliedly,
the condition of existence, but when we made the heart, or existing
property with property not compare, but the thing itself. In this
case, the non-existence does not imply contradiction, because there
will also disappear the same essence, and therefore it includes
everything. The contradiction would say that if the essence involves
existence, and would like to remain the first, missing the
second, which is not evident in this case.

The equality of the radii of the circle can not miss the circle while
not lacking, and the contradiction is that the radios are wanting
uneven circle and the circle continues: But if the circle fails to
be, there is no objection to the radii are unequal .

The essence is the same as existence, while there will also exist
essence, if the substance is missing, also missing there: where
is the contradiction? The essence of man is life, and yet the man
dies, then I will say that the man is destroyed, and that is why
there is no contradiction, since it also will destroy the essence
when it ceases to exist, and no no contradiction in the remainder
of existence that was identified with that. [93.] scholastics They
said that being whose essence was the same as its existence would
be infinitely and absolutely immutable, because the existence of
that being the latest in the line the body or act that could not
be receiving anything.

This difficulty is well founded within the meaning of ambiguous
words. What is meant by _último_ along the lines of authority or
act? If it is meant that the substance identified by the existence
nothing can occur, begging the question occurs, then states
what has been proved. If we understand that existence is the latest
in the line of authority or act in such a way that made it so that
nothing is missing things is the existence of which are actually
existing states an obvious truth, but it is not infer what is trying
to prove. [94.] It seems that the distinction of the concepts of
essence and existence, it is not a real distinction in things.
The essence is not distinct from existence, and not by it becomes
finite first and the second contingent. God, existence is identified
with the essence, but so that its existence implies no contradiction,
and its essence is infinite. CHAPTER XIII. OPINION ON THE REALITY
OF KANT AND DENIAL. [95.] Kant among their ranks and deny the
reality or the existence or non-existence, and defined according
to its principles, saying: "The reality in a pure concept of
understanding, is what corresponds in general to a sense anyone and
therefore that means a being whose concept itself in time. The denial
is that which represents a concept not in time. The opposition
of these two things is the difference in the same time as
full or empty. Well the only time in the form of intuition, therefore
in the form of objects as phenomena, so it follows that they correspond
to the feeling, is the transcendental matter of all objects as
things in themselves, essential reality.

Every sensation has a degree or intensity by which you can fill
more or less the same time, the meaning is relatively close to the
representation of an object until it is reduced to nothing = 0 =
denial. "In this passage there is an error essential that destroys
any basis for their intelligence, and there are a lot of confusion
in the applications that make the idea of time. [96.] According to
Kant, the only really refers to the sensations, then the idea of
entity is the idea of the phenomena of sensibility in general, then
this idea does not mean anything when you want to apply to
non-sensitive, then the same principle of contradiction is
necessarily limited to the area of sensitivity, then neither know
nor can know anything outside of order sensitive. These are the
consequences: we see the strength of the principle that flow. [97.]
If the idea of reality was not more than the idea of sensibility in
general, not ever would apply to things not sensitive, but experience
shows quite the contrary.

Constantly discuss the possibility and even the existence of not
being sensitive and even with respect to the phenomena of our soul,
we distinguish between those who belong to the sensitivity,
and those of the pure intellectual order, then for us the idea of
entity is a general concept, not limited to order sensitive. [98.]

Kant respond to the applications we make of this idea, extending
beyond the area of sensitivity, are vain illusions that are expressed
in words that mean nothing. This replicaré the following. 1. º Now
do not try to know if the applications of the idea of body or out of
order really sensitive, well-founded or unfounded, it is only know
what that idea is not whether or not illusory object represented. When
Kant defines reality, as one of their categories, and therefore as
one of the pure concepts of understanding: that the definition
is good, must express the concept with all the pure extension that
it does, and as I demonstrated that the concept itself is not
limited to the area of sensitivity is that the definition of
Kant is inadmissible. If the philosopher would have said that the
applications of the concept, when carrying out the order of
sensitivity were unfounded, it would have fallen into error, but
not to destroy the same concept, but now, his mistake is not only
the uses of the concept, but the nature of this, which is destroyed,
if confined to the area of sensitivity. 2. º The idea of authority
is based principle, which extends to both the insensitive and the
sensitive.

If admitiésemos the doctrine of Kant would be that the principle of
contradiction, "it is impossible that a thing is and is not at the
same time equivalent to this proposition:" It is impossible
that a phenomenon of sensitivity and fail to appear at the same time.
'It is clear that neither philosophy nor common sense have never a
contradiction to the principle of similar significance. When it is
said that the impossibility of a thing is and is not at the same
time, speaking in general, and does absolutely that this thing belongs
or not to order sensitive. If it were not, or should we say
that is absolutely impossible not sensitive beings, which they dare
not hold the same Kant, or that we doubt whether the principle of
contradiction applies to them as if they exist. Who does not see the
absurdity of this doubt, and just admit that for a moment, destroy
any intelligence? If you're limiting the generality of the principle
of contradiction, the impossibility is not absolute, and then of
course that can go wrong in some cases, who assures us that will not
fail at all 3. º The same Kant admits the distinction between the
phenomena of sensitivity and pure intellectual concepts, then for
himself, understands the reality that something more sensible. The
pure intellectual concepts are a reality, are something, even as
subjective phenomena of our spirit, and yet are sensitive, as Kant
admits the same, then this contradiction philosopher incurs when it
restricts the idea of reality to what is sensible. [99.] Kant does
not conceive the reality and the denial but leaving empty or filling
time, which in the opinion of the German philosopher, is primitive
form of our intuitions, and a background in which the soul sees all
objects , even its own operations. Under this doctrine, the
idea of time up to the denial of reality and, therefore, that the
latter two are conceivable but not with regard to that.

Since then the jumps in the eyes of a strange way, or whether you call
them what you will, to which they relate the ideas of reality and
denial, where the idea really is not anything conceivable. Kant
on the scrupulous analysis of the elements contained in our
spirit, and so disdainful towards all metaphysical that preceded
it, should have explained the nature of the way in which we see reality,
and yet is not contained in the idea of reality. If anything, it
will also be a reality, and if something is not, nothing will be pure
and therefore may not be a form to be filled or emptied, offering
ideas to the spirit or denial of reality.

I would say easy with plenty of reasons the wrong copy of the German
philosopher, so inaccuracy when determining the relationship between
time and the idea of being, but as I intend to explain in
detail the idea of time, not what I advance here is another part of
the work. CHAPTER XIV. SUMMARY AND IMPLICATIONS OF THE DOCTRINE
OF ENTE. [100.] summarizes the doctrine outlined in the
previous chapters, so we can see at a glance as a whole and trabazon.
The idea of body is so fruitful results, which should be deepened in
all its aspects, and never lose sight of in the investigations of
transcendental philosophy. [101.] We have the idea of being, or being
in general: they attest to the reason and sense intimate. [102.]

The idea is simple, and we can not solve it in other elements: it
expresses a general reason of things, and is somewhat distorted, if
the mixture with particular ideas. It is not intuitive, but
unspecified, so that alone would give us no idea of a real and
possible. Be around, not only to conceive _es_ but _en cosa_ one,
which is its predicate, the same being infinite, is not only a
being but an intelligent and free being, and possesses all the
perfections which formally does not involve no imperfection. [103.]

The idea of being able to express or the simple existence, or the
relation of a predicate to a subject in the first instance it is
substantive, in the second copulation. Here are two examples: "the
sun _es_; '_en luminoso_ the sun:" in the first proposition, the
noun is being, or is there in the second, is copulation, or does the
relationship of the predicate with the subject. [104.] The ideas of
identity and distinction born of the ideas of being and not being,
and so the idea of being copulation, which affirms the identity of
a predicate to a subject in some way also derives from the idea of
being noun. [105.] beings, which is the main object of understanding,
it is not possible, as soon as possible, but we do not see the
possibility in order to present: that is born of this, not on it.
Not designed purely for the possibility, that possibility is not
there, if not concibiésemos finite beings, whose idea is not being
wrapped by necessity, and whose appearance and disappearance are
experiencing continuously. [106.] Understanding perceived to be,
and This is a prerequisite for all of your perceptions, but the idea
of being is not the only one that offers you, since you know different
ways of being, which therefore are _modos_ add something to the idea
of absolute and existence. [107.] When we consider the essence of
things regardless of their reality, our knowledge always involve the
following conditions: if they exist. Pure as possible, as not only
science is conditional, ie if the object moves from possibility to
reality. To establish the pure luck that it has necessary
relationships, under the condition of existence, it is necessary to
be a necessary source of all truth. [108.] The essence of things in
the abstract, nothing mean or may be subject to affirmation or denial,
if not a necessary being, that is the reason of the relations of things,
and the possibility of their existence. [109.] The truth, regardless
of any understanding of all beings, not only created, but also
increases, it is an illusion, or rather I shall say, absurd. Of pure
nothing, nothing is true. The truth can not be atheist: there is
no truth without God. [110.] Not only know the being, but also not to
be, the idea of negation. This always refers to some as absolute
nothingness, can not be intelligence. The concept of
denial has its peculiar fertility: if combined with, the fundamental
principle, generates ideas of distinction and multiplicity, and makes
possible the negative judgments.
[111.]

The idea of not being derived from the sensations , nor is innate
in the sense that preexista in our understanding as a kind of all
previous perceptions.

There is no innate objection
to calling it, if this word is meant a condition _sine qua non_
intellectuals of all our actions, and therefore the exercise of our
innate powers.

In any intellectual perception is the idea of being mixed, but
this has not offered a clear distinction to our understanding and,
until that through reflection, separate from the individual ideas
that accompany it. [112.]

The essence not be distinguished from the existence, even in the
finite beings.

This is a conceptual distinction does not correspond to a distinction
in reality. [113.]

The identity of the essence with existence, does not involve the
need to things finite.

The arguments to be drawn with this result is based on misunderstanding
the meaning given to words. [114.]

Meet Kant limits the idea of reality and the denial of the purely
sensitive, involves the ruin of all intelligence, as it does the
same hesitation principle.

This doctrine of the German philosopher, is opposed to what he
himself teaches the pure intellectual concepts, other than
representations sensitive.

Referencing the ideas of reality and denial to the idea of time as
a primitive form of inner sense, leaves out the idea of reality
which can only belong to it, and presents the time under a completely
wrong point of view . [115.] as well as representation sensible
intuition is based on the extension of the primitive, and the
perceptive faculties of the pure understanding, by recognizing the
basic idea of being and of the fate that the extension provides the
sensitivity, limiting, and the figure is limited, and therefore,
all geometric objects of science, and also the idea of not being
combined with that of, and fecundiza somewhat metaphysical sciences

But in the sacrament
of Penance, as stated above (ad 1), human actions take the place of
matter, and these actions proceed from internal inspiration,
wherefore the matter is not applied by the minister, but by God
working inwardly; while the minister furnishes the complement of the
sacrament, when he absolves the penitent.

Reply Obj. 3: In Penance also, there is something which is sacrament
only, viz. the acts performed outwardly both by the repentant sinner,
and by the priest in giving absolution; that which is reality and
sacrament is the sinner's inward repentance; while that which is
reality, and not sacrament, is the forgiveness of sin. The first of
these taken altogether is the cause of the second; and the first and
second together are the cause of the third.
_______________________

SECOND ARTICLE [III, Q. 84, Art. 2]

Whether Sins Are the Proper Matter of This Sacrament?

Objection 1: It would seem that sins are not the proper matter of
this sacrament. Because, in the other sacraments, the matter is
hallowed by the utterance of certain words, and being thus hallowed
produces the sacramental effect. Now sins cannot be hallowed, for
they are opposed to the effect of the sacrament, viz. grace which
blots out sin. Therefore sins are not the proper matter of this
sacrament.

Obj. 2: Further, Augustine says in his book _De Poenitentia_ [Cf.
Serm. cccli]: "No one can begin a new life, unless he repent of the
old." Now not only sins but also the penalties of the present life
belong to the old life. Therefore sins are not the proper matter of
Penance.

. [15.] The unit that generates the number need not be real enough
to be Factitial. Taking the foot unit, we used a unit thereof, as
the foot that consists of parts, but the number that results is a
real number. CHAPTER III. UNIDAD and simplicity. [16.] The real
unity, confused with simplicity. What really lacks a distinction
in itself, no part of which is to say that this _no en_. It is
clear that nothing more is required to ensure simplicity, as opposed
to the simple compound, to which is made up of several people, of
whom one en_ _no other. [17.]

This simplicity not found in any of objects subject to our intuition,
except for acts of our soul. By that way, even though we know from
the speech is really a substance, or simple do not see in themselves.

It consists mainly of large parts of the unit where it is real, or
simplicity, not found in the corporeal world, as is the object of our
awareness. But as has been composed as simple to solve, and
it should not proceed to infinity, it follows also that the
universe is a corporeal substance, which, whether or inextensible
points as you want, it seems, can not be in others, and therefore
are really about, or simple. [18.] From this it follows, that in some
ways could be said that the substances are really simple, and that
the so-called composites, are sets of substances, which in turn are
third substance, under a law that some chairs, and that gives them
the drive that I have called Factitial. [19.]

Here I can see how to do transcendental analysis confuses those
who do not support the simplicity of the thinking beings, because
we find that simplicity is the first composition, and that this can
not even conceivable, if not assume it.

Simplicity is a law required all as being a composite, rather than a
being, should be called a set of beings. [20.] I said that the
substances are not merely offered to our intuition and that this
had no objects that deserve the name of simple acts of our soul.

This derives from the intuition of the principal means for us is
the sensitivity, which is to representations based on the
extension. Concerning acts of our soul, we are given in intuition, in
the intimate sense, no doubt, are quite simple. Who is able to
decompose a perception, an opinion, a reason, an act of will? [21.]
The perception of certain objects need to preparatory acts, as does
the reasoning of the trial, but the operations themselves them
are extremely simple, and it is impossible to divide into several
parts. Simplicity is also in the acts of the will, the will of
either pure or intellectual and the sensible. How can be divided into
parts such acts, _quiero not want to, love, hate, joy, sufro_? [22.]
Should not confuse the means with a multiplicity of actions: they are
not denying that many, just say that these are simple in themselves.
In our mind there are continuous thoughts, impressions, disorders of
various kinds: these phenomena are different from one another,
as evidence,
which exist in different times and at one time exist without each
other, and some are not contradict it: but every phenomenon in
itself, is incapable of being broken, does not admit to himself the
distinction in several parts, and it is simple. [23.]

The only true unity is found in simplicity as: where there are no
true simplicity, unity Factitial are not real, because even if there
is no separation, there are distinctions between the various parts
of the compound is formed. [24.]

It follows that the definition of being an in Instead _indivisum_,
perhaps you should _indistinctum_, because the distinction is opposed
to the unity of identity, the division of the Union.

A unit thereof, the indivisum enough, but real unity requires the
indistinctness. But they are united by two things, if one is not the
other, are distinct and can not call in a strictly metaphysical. [25.]
These remarks are directed only to set good ideas, not to change
the language . In common usage, it applies the idea of unity in a less
rigorous sense, and far to oppose this application, I agree that it
is founded in reason. The union of different things really is a
package that can be called one, as is also subjected certain
unity, and if it were not allowed to use this word in a meaning
less rigorous than it requires metaphysical analysis, it must
banish unit for most of the objects.

I said that the substances are not simply offer us immediately in
intuition, and we see that rather sets the elements of which
consist, if we could just drive to implement the simple,
science is on how closer; language will impoverish and literature
and the arts would be stripped of one of its perfections characteristics:
unity.

CHAPTER IV. TREND OF THE ORIGIN OF OUR SPIRIT to unity. [26.] Finding
multiple objects at all sensitive who are calling our attention more
particularly, how the idea takes on our spirit of unity? We seek unity
in the sciences, literature unit, the unit in the arts throughout
the unit.

Whence comes this irresistible trend towards unity, which makes us
look Factitial do not find real, and this despite the multiplicity
that we are given to objects of our perception? [27.] If I'm not
cheating, you can point to two sources of this tendency to drive:
an objective, another subjective. The first is the same character
of unity, which is involved mainly the purpose of understanding,
the other is the drive that is in the intelligent being, and
that this experience in the fund itself. These ideas need further
explanation. [28.]

The unit is as is every one, and strictly speaking, being is not
only in the unit. Take an object composed: there are two things: the
simple elements of which it is composed, and the reunion of the same.
Being itself is not in the union, but the elements together. The
union is simply a relationship that is not even possible when there
are no elements to be joined. Rather, these elements in themselves,
regardless of the union, are real beings that existed before the
union and there after. What is an organized body? A set of
molecules united under some law, as is the principle that presides
over the organization.

The parties existed prior to this was formed, and when destroyed,
will continue to exist. Then it was being in the elements themselves
and the organization was a relationship among them. [29.] The
organization needs a principle that dominates, holding its
functions to certain laws to fill your order. By showing that even
the same relationship is subject to the unit, ie, unity of purpose
and unity of the principle that dominates and directs. [30.]

It is conceived that the union could mean different things nothing
and lead nowhere, but as it presides over the unit. In the objects
subject to our experience, things come together in three ways: by
juxtaposition in space, for coexistence in time, and by association
in the course of his business. The first mode, the elements are
united forming the extension, the second all the objects that
belong to the same time, the third and all who meet its forces
targeting a same purpose. [31.]

The union consists of the continuity of the elements in space, has no
value in the eyes of science, but once there is an intelligent being
perceived forms that result from the continuity, reducing them to
principles of unity in ideal types. Four dotted lines arranged so
as to form a ring, does not mean anything scientific, until there is
a perceived low intelligence unit, the form of ring. I do
not deny the existence of the ring regardless of intellectual
perception, regardless of intelligence, there are certainly lines
arranged in the same way, but this provision in the form of ring,
is a relationship, not a being distinct from all the elements ready
and by itself does not object to the intelligence, but as soon as
the unit under the form of ring.

When looking for intelligence to be true, but it is not found in the
elements and want to see the relationship of these , it is clear
to dip into the drive way. [32.] La coexistence in time is a relationship
that in itself does not remove anything or to objects. They have their
independent existence of that relationship: to coexist are necessary.
The relationship means something perceptible only by
understanding, as presented in this unit: in this case is unity of
time, as well as in the previous unit was space. [33.] La Activities
Association does not mean nothing conceivable, but as is the
convergence of forces towards the same object.

If the unit is missing the point of direction, no reunion espresaria
nothing and intelligence activities would aim to spread without
any relationship. [34.] It is therefore shown that the unit
is a law of our understanding, based on the same kind of things.
Being is not absolute as in the compound but simple, and being
on is not even conceivable, but as subject to the unit. [35.] The other
origin of the tendency of our spirit into the unit, you are in its
nature. It itself is one, simple, and therefore seeks to assimilate
all this unity and simplicity. Under the huge variety of phenomena
sensitive, intellectual and moral, which is unabated, it feels in
the midst of multiple, ongoing through the succession. The identity
of _yo_ it is attested by the intimate connection with a certain
irresistible.

That unity, that identity is so true, so obvious to the child begins
to feel pain or pleasure, you are sure that he himself is experiencing
both views, as the philosopher who has spent many years in research
on deep _yo_ and the idea of the unity of consciousness.

The unity and simplicity that we experience within us, force
us to reduce the compound to simple, and as a multiple. The perception
of the things a compound refers to an essentially consciousness:
even if a single act percibiésemos with all the complications that
exist in the universe, this act would simplicísimo because not
otherwise could the _yo_ say _yo percibo_. [36.] There are therefore
two reasons to look around our spirit unity. Intelligibility of the
objects, but as there are under a certain unity perceptible to a form
in which it is a multiple compound and simple. The object is to
be understanding, and being he is simple. The compound involves
a simple set of elements, the relationship is called _union_: but
this is not a perceptible object, but as it presents a
certain unity. The intelligence on the subject is inconceivable
without the indivisible unity of consciousness. Everyone needs this
intelligent link between the variety of phenomena, that is the subject:
if he were to miss this unit, these phenomena would be a joint report,
without any relation to one another; acts would be a smart intellectuals.
The tendency to unit arises from the perfection of our spirit,
and is itself a perfection, but you need to save lost, looking for
a real unity, which we can only find Factitial.

Derives an exaggeration of this fatal error, the error of our
time, pantheism. The unit is in our spirit, the essence is infinite,
because of all finite beings, but not in all these beings, although
united by many ties, they should be separate. In the world there
is unity of command, unity, harmony, unity, home, end unit, but there
is absolute unity. Harmonic in the unit also enters the number, which
is absolutely incompatible with this unit, which fought at the same
time the experience and reason. CHAPTER V. THE IDEA OF CREATION
NUMBERS. [37.] The unit is the first element the number, but by itself
is not the issue: this is not unity, but the collection of units.
[38.]

The two, it's number. What is the idea of the two? Obvious that this
idea should not be confused with the sign: the signs are many and
various, it is, and always the same. [39.] At first glance it seems
that the idea of two independent mode of generation, and that being
single can be formed by addition or subtraction, one with a summing
or subtracting one of three. 1 +1 = 2 3-1 = 2. But reflecting on
these two expressions is found that the second is impossible without
the former. We would not know that 3-1 = 2, but we knew that the two
included in the composition of the three, and how, none of this can
help us know if we have no idea in advance of the two. The very idea
is essential to the idea of the two: and this is just the perception
of this amount. [40.] The idea of two is not feeling, because it extends
to the sensitive and insensitive to, á Simultaneous to the hereafter.
Its object is composed, it itself is simple. [41.] As in the two is
the collection of a few objects, the imagination can represent
what the understanding perceives, so the idea seems more clear,
because it has a representation in front , which can be sensitized.
The idea of adding facto_ _IN made, ie the sum entered into the idea
of two, but not the addition _IN fieri_. We have an idea of this issue
very clear, without thinking of one plus one, successively. [42.]

The idea of the two refers to simultaneous as well as future, but
our spirit is not to discover the things that has been the last.
This perception is aimed at the relation of things together,
understanding perceived as such, and only then have an idea of the
two. [43.]

La perception succession or simultaneously two objects, if not
accompanied by relation, is not idea of the two.

In this case what is usually said that a man and a horse does not
make two, but one and one: because we are understanding the man
and the horse, not what they seem, but what they differ; and only
when numbers are offered to the spirit under a common idea.

If, indeed,
any bodily act were necessary on the part of the priest, the sign of
the cross, which is employed in the Eucharist, would not be less
becoming than the imposition of hands, in token that sins are
forgiven through the blood of Christ crucified; and yet this is not
essential to this sacrament as neither is it to the Eucharist.
_______________________

FIFTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 84, Art. 5]

Whether This Sacrament Is Necessary for Salvation?

Objection 1: It would seem that this sacrament is not necessary for
salvation. Because on Ps. 125:5, "They that sow in tears," etc., the
gloss says: "Be not sorrowful, if thou hast a good will, of which
peace is the meed." But sorrow is essential to Penance, according to
2 Cor. 7:10: "The sorrow that is according to God worketh penance
steadfast unto salvation." Therefore a good will without Penance
suffices for salvation.

Obj. 2: Further, it is written (Prov. 10:12): "Charity covereth all
sins," and further on (Prov. 15:27): "By mercy and faith sins are
purged away." But this sacrament is for nothing else but the purging
of sins. Therefore if one has charity, faith, and mercy, one can
obtain salvation, without the sacrament of Penance.

Obj. 3: Further, the sacraments of the Church take their origin from
the institution of Christ. But according to John 8 Christ absolved
the adulterous woman without Penance. Therefore it seems that Penance
is not necessary for salvation.

_On the contrary,_ our Lord said (Luke 13:3): "Unless you shall do
penance, you shall all likewise perish."

_I answer that,_ A thing is necessary for salvation in two ways:
first, absolutely; secondly, on a supposition. A thing is absolutely
necessary for salvation, if no one can obtain salvation without it,
as, for example, the grace of Christ, and the sacrament of Baptism,
whereby a man is born again in Christ. The sacrament of Penance is
necessary on a supposition, for it is necessary, not for all, but for
those who are in sin. For it is written (2 Paral. 37 [*The prayer of
Manasses, among the Apocrypha]), "Thou, Lord, God of the righteous,
hast not appointed repentance to the righteous, to Abraham, Isaac and
Jacob, nor to those who sinned not against Thee." But "sin, when it
is completed, begetteth death" (James 1:15). Consequently it is
necessary for the sinner's salvation that sin be taken away from him;
which cannot be done without the sacrament of Penance, wherein the
power of Christ's Passion operates through the priest's absolution
and the acts of the penitent, who co-operates with grace unto the
destruction of his sin. For as Augustine says (Tract. lxxii in Joan.
[*Implicitly in the passage referred to, but explicitly Serm. xv de
verb. How can you think of a sort to determine if they are not out
of his way to judge is to talk? And if the conclusion of the
speech of the ethos in the one case does not apply, why should
it apply in the other?

She speaks with arid words that they start to hate me, and I should
think that they still love me? So I will also have to believe that
they hate me when they say that they start to love me. Juliane.
Adrast you consider their small Neckereien too strict, and confused
with falsehood Übereilung.

It may be the last day of the guilty will be a hundred, and from the
first but always stay away. You must be out of their deeds, and not
from their speeches, learn to learn that they are basically the
friendly and gentle soul. Adrast. Oh! Juliane, the speeches are the
first beginnings of the deeds, its elements, as it were. How can we
assume that one carefully and will act well, it is not even
usually, be careful and good to talk? Your tongue spared nothing, not
even one, what you the holiest of the world should be. Duty,
virtue, decency, religion: everything is exposed to their scorn
.-- Juliane. Silence, Adrast! They should be the last one who made
this remark. Adrast. Why? Juliane.

Why? - Should I speak honestly? Adrast. As if you could talk differently
.-- Juliane. As if the whole demeanor of my sister, her intense
desire to seem easy, as it is their desire mockery to say, only
by a certain time herschrieben? As if this time the time your are
here would be Adrast? Adrast. What do you say? Juliane. I do not
want to say that your a bad example would proceed.

With what tempts us not the desire to please?

If your attitudes also have expressed even less - and you have often
expressed clearly enough so .-- Henriette but they would have
guessed.

And once they have the same erriet so soon was the conclusion by
accepting the same views with you loved to make for a very lively
girl of course. Are you well now so cruel, and the one credited as a
crime, for which you as for flattery, thank you? Adrast. I thank
anyone who is small enough for me to leave his character, and that
makes me a bad flattery, the gates for me holds nothing but what
its like nature, and everywhere like little copies and rejuvenated
by Abschilderungen see themselves wants.

Juliane. But in this way you will not make proselytes. Adrast. What
do you think of me, Juliane nicest? I make proselytes? Raging
company! If I have my thoughts ever anschwatzen or want to impose?
'm Sorry, it should do, they brought the mob to know. When I
loudly and often with a certain ferocity verteidiget, so it is
with the intention to justify myself, not others to talk about,
happened.

If my opinions were too common, I would be the first of them left,
and the mutual annähme. Juliane. Are you looking for just the
Different? Adrast. No, not that Different, but just stating the truth,
and I can not sure if that, alas! a consequence of this is. It is
impossible for me to believe that the truth could be common, as
impossible as to think that in the whole world at once could day.

That which under the guise of truth among all the peoples herumschleicht,
and also by the nonsensical is adopted, is certainly no truth, and
one can only safely hand them to undress, invest, this is the most
heinous mistake stand naked in front of see.

Juliane. How miserable are the people, and how unjust their creator,
if you are right, Adrast! It must either have no truth, or
they must be of the nature that most of them, yes all, at least
in essence, can be felt. Adrast. It has nothing to do with the
truth that it can not be, but to the people .-- We should be happy
in the world, which we are created, which we are solely create. As
often as the final destination of this great truth is a hindrance
whenever you are connected, to put it aside, because only little ghosts
in the truth can even find their fortune. We therefore leave the mob
his mistakes, we will leave it to him because they have a reason
of his happiness and the rest of the state, in which he is for
security, abundance and joy will take place.

His religion take, is a wild horse on the pasture unfasten fat which,
when it feels free, rather barren in forests and lack herumschweifen
suffer as a leisurely service everything it needs to acquire .-- Not
for the mob alone, even for a different part of the human sex, religion
must be maintained. For the most part, I mean, they kind of ornament,
as there is kind of bridle. The Religious of female modesty stand
very well, there's the beauty of a certain noble, seated and
standing languishing - Juliane. Hold, Adrast! They prove my gender
nor honor, as a religion.

That put the rabble in a class, so fine, your phrase was, and these
make up a maximum of one type of make-up, the devices on our bedside
tables can proliferate. No, Adrast! religion is an ornament
for all people, and must be their most important ornament.
Oh, you misjudge them proud, but from a false pride. What can our mind
filled with lofty notions as religion? And what can the beauty
of the soul exist otherwise than in such terms? in terms worthy of
God, from us, our duties, of our destiny? What can our hearts, this
assembly corrupt passions, and restless, more clean, more calm, just
as this religion? What can we loin more upright than they? What
can lead us to real people, to improve citizens to make sincere
friends than they?

- Almost, I am ashamed, Adrast with you so earnestly to speak.
It is the sound, without a doubt not that you like a woman's room,
whether you like just the opposite seems to have fallen. They could
all this from an eloquent lips, from the mouth of Theophanes hear.
Fourth appearance Henriette. Juliane. Adrast. Henriette (remains
at the scene are horchend). St! Adrast. Tell me nothing of Theophanes.
A word from you has more vigor than a hour-long Geplärre from him.

You are surprised? Is it in the power that a person must have about me
that I only love that I adore, otherwise? - Yes, I love .-- The word
is out! it is said! I'm going on my secret,
whose disclosure gequälet I ever had, from its discovery but that
I no longer hope to discolor .-- You?

- Juliane. What I heard? Adrast!

- Adrast (by niederfällt).

Let me you are on your knees zuschwören that you have heard the
truth .-- I love you, beautiful Juliane and I will love you forever.
Well, now my heart is clear and up front of you there. Free me and I
wanted other bereden that my indifference to the effect of
Henriette noticed adverse properties that, because they do nothing,
as the effect of slope was already bound. Oh!

the lovely Henriette has perhaps no other errors than those that
a nurse has yet lovable .-- Henriette. Bravo! the scene, I must interrupt
the Theophanes leave. - (geht ab.) Fifth appearance Juliane.
Adrast. Adrast (by gähling up). Who said this? Juliane. Heaven!
it was Henriette voice. Adrast. Yes, she was there.

What a curiosity! what a cheeky! No, no! I have nothing to withdraw,
it has all the mistakes that I settled it, and still several. I could
not love it, and if I even completely free, completely indifferent
to each other would be. Juliane. What kind of annoyances, Adrast,
please allow me to draw! Adrast. Do not worry! I will give you
all of these annoyances by my sudden removal to avoid knowing.

Juliane. Through your distance? Adrast. Yes, it is firmly decided.
My circumstances are of the nature that I would abuse Lisidors
goodness, if I would remain longer. And on this I will prefer
to take my farewell, as it get. Juliane. You're not what you say
Adrast. From whom should it get? Adrast. I know the fathers,
Juliane beautiful, and also know the Theophanes.

Allow that I can not explain. Oh, if I could flatter myself that
Juliane - I say nothing more. I do not want me to flatter impossibility.
No, Juliane Adrast can not love, she must hate him .-- Juliane. I
hate nobody, Adrast .-- Adrast.

They hate me, because this is just hate, what is not love.
They love the Theophanes .-- Ha! ways; the point here himself
sixth appearance Theophanes. Adrast. Juliane. Juliane (aside). What
will he say? what will I answer? Adrast. I can imagine it, at whose
instigation you come from. But what they believe to win? To confuse
me? me again to attract? - How well can you Theophanes, and your
venerable character, the tool of a female to be jealous! Or you
do me to talk to? I'll confess everything, I will be proud. Theophanes.
What you are talking, Adrast? I do not understand a word.

Juliane. Allow that I remove. Theophanes, I flatterer me that you
have some respect for me, you will not be unjust to make interpretations,
and at least believe I know my duty, and that it is sacred to me,
they thought only to hurt. Theophanes. Forgiven but you .-- What are
these words? I understand you as little, as I have understood the
Adrast. Juliane. It is my love that you made an innocent little
thing does not want to do. But let me - (geht ab.) Adrast Seventh
appearance. Theophanes. Theophanes. Your mistress, Adrast, sent me
here: I would be needed here, she said. I hurry and get to hear loud
riddle. Adrast. My lover? - Ei! how did you fine this appropriate!
Certainly, you could not your accusations briefer. Theophanes. My
accusations? What have I to be ashamed because you 'Adrast. Do
you want some confirmation from my lips hear? Theophanes. Tell me only
what you want to confirm? I am very surprised here .-- Adrast. This
goes too far. Which crawling adjustment! But that it will finally not
too sour, so I will oblige you with violence, they are off .--
Yes, it's all true, what's behind Henriette has brought.

She was vile enough to us to behorchen Juliane .-- I love, and you've
confessed my love .-- Theophanes.

They love Juliane? Adrast (mockingly). And what is the worst, without
the Theophanes asked for permission to have. Theophanes. Imagine if
so satisfied. You have only a very small formality overlooked. Adrast.
Their composure, Theophanes, here is nothing special. You think your
stuff to be sure .-- And oh! but if it would be less! If I only
with the lowest probability might add that I also love Juliane.
What a pleasure to me to be alarmed that in her face would betray!
What a refreshing for me when I heard you sigh when I saw you tremble!
How I would delighted if you all your anger on me to miss me and
full of despair, I do not know where, would execrate! Theophanes. So
you could probably out of luck delight, if not by the misfortune
of another would be seasoned? - I regret the Adrast! The love must
be all their perishable power wasted on him, because he was so
rude talk.

Adrast. Cheers! at this mine, in this phrase I remember who I am. It
is true, I am your debtor, Theophanes: and against his debtor
has the right, always a little big to do - but patience! I hope
it does not take long to be. It has even found an honest man who
made me want to tear this embarrassment. I do not know where he remains.
According to his promise, he had already with the money to be here.
Wohltun I will when I get it. Theophanes. But, a word, Adrast. I want
you to discover all my heart .-- Adrast. This discovery would not
amuse me. I'm going, and soon I will give you a bold face below
the eyes can occur. (Geht ab.) Theophanes (alone). Unbiegsamer spirit!
I almost despair at my company. Everything with him is in vain. But
what would he have said if he had time left him for his confession,
with another similar confessions to pay? - You ways; the point. Eighth
appearance Henriette. Lisette. Theophanes. Henriette. Now? Theophanes,
I do not like sights to a ruling? Theophanes. You are reckless,
beautiful Henriette. But what do you need for a sight? Hardly the main
thing that I with difficulty and hardship have grasped. Henriette.
O shame! - They came on so slowly? Adrast and was no longer before
my sister on the knees? Theophanes. Thus, he proposed to her knees
located? Lisette. Unfortunately for you both! Henriette. And my
sister was there - I can not describe to you, - stood there, almost
as if it is him in this uncomfortable position would like to view.

You take me, Theophanes - Theophanes. Should I also regret,
compassion child? Henriette. I'm sorry? You should wish me luck.
Lisette. But no, something to scream revenge! Theophanes. And what
says Lisette because that one could take revenge? Lisette. So you
want to avenge it? Theophanes. Maybe. Lisette. And you also,
Mamsell? Henriette. Maybe. Lisette. Good! are two Perhaps what makes
something.

Theophanes. But it is still very uncertain whether the Juliane Adrast
wiederliebt, and if this is not, I would too early to think about
revenge. Lisette. Oh! the Christian soul! Now she only that it will
not be revenge. Theophanes. Not so ironic, Lisette!

It would be a very innocent revenge of the question. Henriette. I am
also, from a very innocent. Lisette. Who denies that? of a so innocent
that we in good conscience can advise about. Listen to all! Their
revenge, Mr. Theophanes, revenge would be a male, is not it? and
your revenge, Henriette Mamsell would be a female vengeance: a
male revenge - well, revenge and a female - Yes! how do I get
probably the right thing shied around? Henriette. You are a Närrin
along with your gender. Lisette. Help me a little, Mr. Theophanes
.-- What do you think? If two people making a way to go, is not it?
It is good that these two persons each society? Theophanes. Yes, but
assuming that these two individuals themselves may also suffer.
Henriette. That was the point! Lisette (aside). Because none wants
to bite? I have another tip grasp .-- It is true, what Mr Theophanes
said that it is still very uncertain whether the Mamsell Juliane
Adrast love. I even put added. It is still very
uncertain whether Mr Adrast Mamsell Juliane really loves.

Henriette. Schweig O, thou unfortunate Zweiflerin.

It will now certainly be! Lisette.

The man people will get and when certain attacks by a certain
wetterwendischen disease resulting from a degree of overload of the
heart rises. Henriette. From an overload of the heart? Where Schön!
Lisette. I can tell you straight away what that means. Just as
people who are bloated stomach do not actually know what they
like and what they do not like: it is also the people who are the
heart have overloaded.

They no longer even know to which side the overloaded heart hinhängt,
and as true as it is probably that small errors in the person resulting
.-- Am I not right, Mr Theophanes? Theophanes. I want it over. Lisette.
You are certainly a far better kind of man people, and I think you
overly cautious, as that your heart should be so cluttered .-- But
you probably know what I have an idea for how we still behind the
truth with the Lord Adrast and Juliane Mamsell want?

Theophanes. Now? Henriette. You would make me curious if I was not
already behind the truth .-- Lisette. How? if we have a certain
blind noise made? Henriette. What is it again? Lisette. A blind noise
is a noise wohinter nothing, but the administration is the enemy
- to a degree of attention to bring .-- For example: To find out
whether the Mamsell Juliane Adrast dear, it would be someone in Mr.

Theophanes make love differently, and to learn if Adrast Mamsell Juliane
love, you need to make love with someone else. And since it would not
now, when Mr. Theophanes in love with me pointed out, much less
when you are in love with his Martin wanted to make: it would
and, in short, my advice, you were both together in love .-- I
speak only of points, you probably remember what I say!

only of points; else could be the noise at once blind eyes get .-- Now
tell me both, the attack is not good? Theophanes (aside).
This,
however, does not prevent penance being continual, as explained above.

Reply Obj. 2: Of sorrow and joy we may speak in two ways: first, as
being passions of the sensitive appetite; and thus they can nowise
be together, since they are altogether contrary to one another,
either on the part of the object (as when they have the same object),
or at least on the part of the movement, for joy is with expansion
[*Cf. I-II, Q. 33, A. 1] of the heart, whereas sorrow is with
contraction; and it is in this sense that the Philosopher speaks in
_Ethic._ ix. Secondly, we may speak of joy and sorrow as being simple
acts of the will, to which something is pleasing or displeasing.
Accordingly, they cannot be contrary to one another, except on the
part of the object, as when they concern the same object in the same
respect, in which way joy and sorrow cannot be simultaneous, because
the same thing in the same respect cannot be pleasing and
displeasing. If, on the other hand, joy and sorrow, understood thus,
be not of the same object in the same respect, but either of
different objects, or of the same object in different respects, in
that case joy and sorrow are not contrary to one another, so that
nothing hinders a man from being joyful and sorrowful at the same
time--for instance, if we see a good man suffer, we both rejoice at
his goodness and at the same time grieve for his suffering. You can
now have credit, no doubt to be that we will have it tomorrow. I
know his present circumstances .-- Theophanes (aside). I must
do my utmost, that they not do .-- You must have the wrong .-- Do
you know me, sir? - The changer. From person is not, perhaps,
if I hear your name should .-- Theophanes.

Theophanes. The changer. A name, which I always heard the best. Theophanes.
If you are the Lord Adrast the required sum not want to give his
signature, you probably want to do mine?

The changer. With pleasure. Theophanes. Do you have the goodness, me
on my desk to accompany. I want you to issue the necessary
insurance, but it is just important to get this guarantee before
Adrast itself be kept secret. The changer. Before him? Theophanes.
However, to inform him of the annoyances about your censure to save
.-- The changer. You must be a generous friend. Theophanes. Let
us no longer be forgiven. (Walking from.) (End of the fourth
lift.) Fifth elevator changer The First appearance of the one side,
and from the other Adrast. Adrast
(front).

I lost my husband can not find .-- The changer (front).

So I leave it to me like .-- Adrast. But lo and behold!

- Ei! sir, I find you here? So we are without doubt one another
fehlgegangen? The changer. It is my love, my Lord Adrast
that I still meet you. Adrast. I have you in your apartment. The thing
suffers no delay. I can still rely on you? The changer. Now, yes.
Adrast. Now? What do you mean by that? The changer. Nothing. Yes, you
can rely on me. Adrast. I do not want to hope that you some mistrust
of me? The changer. Not in the slightest. Adrast. Or that you wanted
to teach something you have?

The changer. Much less. Adrast. We have already had to do with each
other, and you will be me as an honest man can be found. The
changer. I have no worries. Adrast. It is my honor because
zuschanden those who are wicked enough to detract from my loan.
The changer. I think that one is doing the opposite. Adrast. Oh!
They say not.

I know that I have my enemies - The Changer. You also have
your friends .-- Adrast. Placing the highest in name. Auszulachen I
would be if I wanted to calculate it .-- And do you believe, sir,
that I did not even wish that you, in my absence, here in this home
have been • The changer. And it must be love but you. Adrast. While
it is the house to which I have nothing but good should provide,
but a certain person is, sir, a certain person - I know I would
have felt if you had spoken with the same.

The changer. I have actually spoken with anyone, but the person
at which I inquired after you, the greatest devotion testifies against
you. Adrast. I can probably tell you who the person is, before their
evils After some talk, I fear. It is even good if you know
it, so you if you have negative things to me should come to the ears,
the author know. The changer.

I will not be necessary, will be heard. Adrast. But - in a word,
it is Theophanes. The Wechsler (surprised). Theophanes? Adrast. Yes,
Theophanes. He is my enemy - the changer. Theophanes your enemy? Adrast.
You astonish? The changer.

Not without cause the greatest .-- Adrast. Without doubt, because you
believe that a man of his position just as generous and noble could
be? - The changer. My Lord - Adrast. He is the most dangerous of
hypocrites, I under the same nor ever had been. The changer. My
Lord - Adrast. He knows that I know him, and there is therefore any
effort to undermine me .-- The changer.

I ask you - Adrast. If you have a good think about it, so you are
very mistaken. Perhaps in that it only from the side of his fortune
to know, and against this I have nothing: he is rich, but his wealth
it creates opportunity for the very best kind of hurt them. The
changer. What do you say? Adrast. He indescribable scheming to me from
that home to bring, intrigue, where he was a so-innocent reputation
can give myself about that amazing. The changer. That is too bad!
Later I can not remain silent. My Lord, You go to the amazing art -
Adrast. I? The changer. Theophanes may be impossible, what you spend
it. Listen to everything! I came here, my word to you again zurückezunehmen.
I had a sure hand, not by Theophanes, circumstances of you know
who urged me to.

I found him here, and I believed it without difficulty to be able to
say - Adrast. The Theophanes? How will the vile have tickled! The
changer. Tickled? He is strongest on the talking for you. And just
when I think my first promise, it just so happens to look at his.
Adrast. In his view? - Where am I? The changer. He has written me
insurance, which I, as a guarantee for you can see. Although
he gave me is also prohibited to anyone the least of them to say
that alone I could hear it impossible that an honest man so innocent
verlästert would.

You can use the sum demanded for me to pick up when you are popular.
Only you will do me the favor and against him is nothing to
remember. He testified during the whole trading as much sincerity and
friendship for you that he is a monster would be if he
is to drift adjustment to life .- could you well! (Geht ab.) Second
appearance Adrast .-- What a string of new - I can not come to myself
- It is not bearable! - Contempt, insults - insults in the subject to
him The favorite must be: - everything is free, nothing
he wants to feel. What is it so hard? The malice alone, the desire
alone, his revenge will be ready to leave .-- Whom should this man not
behind the leading light? I do not know what I think. He urges his
benefactions with a kind of - but accursed are his good deeds,
and his kind! And although no snake under these flowers would
be, I would not him differently than you can hate. I will hate him,
and when he saved my life. He has robbed me, what is more precious
than life: the heart of my Juliane, a robbery, he can not replace, and
if he gave me their own. But he will not replace him, and I sealed it
with a good opinion .-- Third appearance Theophanes. Adrast.
Theophanes. In which I meet violent movement Adrast you again?
Adrast. It is your work. Theophanes. So it must be one of those
works, which we then give rise against our will when we are at the
most after their counter parts endeavor. I wish nothing but quiet
to see you so that you wash in cold blood by one thing with me could
talk to both of us can approach no closer. Adrast. Not true, Theophanes?
it is the highest level of the list when all his pranks to play knows
that, where it plays, not even knowing whether and what charges
they make to us?

Theophanes. Without a doubt. Adrast. Do you want happiness, you
have reached this level. Theophanes. What is this again? Adrast.
I promised you earlier, the deliberate change to pay - (mockingly)
You will not übelnehmen, now it can not be. I want you, instead of
the torn, other removable write. Theophanes (in just the tone).
It is true I have no intention of tearing others, as new for
you to get .-- Adrast. It may have been your intention or not, they
should have it .-- Did you not like to know about why I now can
not pay? Theophanes. Now? Adrast. Because I would not love. Theophanes.
The guarantees? Adrast. Yes, and because I do not give your
rights may be, from what I would have to take your left.

Theophanes (aside). The changeover has not kept clean mouth! Adrast.
You understand me? Theophanes. I can not say with certainty. Adrast.
I'll give me all the trouble you in any way connected to his: it
must be me not so angry that I would be suspected of bringing as
if I have nevertheless had to be the cause?

Theophanes. I am about your amazing dexterity, everything on the worst
site. Adrast. And as you have heard, I am surprised yours on this
page so splendidly terrible to hide. Still, I do not really what I
think of them. Theophanes. Because the natural thing would not want
to think. Adrast. This natural, do you think perhaps it would be if I
dächte that this step of generosity, from screening for my good name
would have done? Alone, with permission, here it would be equal to the
unnatural. Theophanes. You have surely right. Because, as it would
be possible that a man of my position is only half as human attitudes
could have? Adrast. Let your stand set aside. Theophanes. Should
you probably can? - Adrast. Put in other words, you would have none
of the people involved, the character of piety to assert their passions
so secret as possible, must hold at the beginning of prosperity pretend
to learn, and finally, the hypocrisy as a second nature to maintain
the accordance with their principles are connected, are honest
people, what they call children of the world, to escape, or at least
no other intention of dealing with them to maintain, as from the
vile intentions, they steer their side, that you would have none
of this: are you not at least a person who feels insulted?

And at once all in all to say: - If you are not a lover, who must feel
jealous? Theophanes. It is pleasing to me that you are finally
at this point to come out. Adrast. They suggest not only that
I do with the slightest moderation them speak. Theophanes. So I
will try it, the more need to be. Adrast. Juliane love you and I
- I - what do I search for long words - I hate you because of this
love, whether I shall not be entitled to have the beloved object,
and you, you have a right to, I should that I envy to this right, not
even hate? Theophanes. Certainly, I should not .-- But let us just
the right look that you and I have to Juliane. Adrast.

If this right to the strength of our love ankäme, so I would you might
still dispute it. It is your luck that on the consent of a father,
and on the obedience of a daughter ankömmt .-- Theophanes. Then I
will not be arriving. Love alone will judge. But you probably
remember, not just ours, but mainly the love of those who hold me to
believe.

If you can lead me on, that you are by Julian wiedergeliebet - Adrast.
How do you want me maybe assign your rights? Theophanes. So I
did. Adrast. As you mocking me around - you are your certainly
matters, and convinced that you take this Rodomontade not jeopardized.
Theophanes.
So you can not tell me whether you love Juliane?

Adrast.

If I could, I would
probably refrain from using this preference to torment?

Theophanes. Silence! You are inhuman, than you are probably .-- Well!
I will - I will tell you that you Juliane loves.

Adrast. What do you say?

- But I was almost going through the Lovely Insurance forget this,
from whose lips I heard them.

Right so! Theophanes, quite so!

We must dispose of his enemies deride.

But do you want this totally mockery to make me not even insure
that you do not love Juliane?

Theophanes (morose). It is impossible to
share with you a sensible word to speak.

(He wants to go away.) Adrast (aside).

He is angry - but wait, Theophanes.

Do you know that the first out with mine, I finally see you, I am eager
to make this word sound to be heard? Theophanes (angry). And you
know that I am finally your'm weary of disgraceful conduct? Adrast
(aside). He makes Ernst .-- Theophanes (still angry).

I will endeavor that you will find the Theophanes to him than you
imagine. Adrast. Forgiven you. I believe in your sincerity Despite
more to see than I ever have seen your kindness. Theophanes. Wonderful
man! You must be equated, we must equally proud, equally wary, as
his rough, as you make your miserable confidence to win? Adrast. I
will give you the language, because of its novelty, must be forgiven.
Theophanes. They are old enough you should be! Adrast. But, in
fact - you make me completely confused. Will you give me things,
what all my ankömmt well, with a cheerful face say?

I ask you, say it again now, what I said earlier for a record had
to mockery. Theophanes. If I say, you just do not believe that it
happens to her. Adrast. The more I rely on. Theophanes. But without
me pause: please .-- I Adrast. Speeches only. Theophanes.

Let me give you the key to what you listen to the same condition type.
My inclination has betrayed me no less than you yours. I know and
admire all the perfections, the Julian to the adornment of her
sex to make, but - I love them. Adrast. You - Theophanes. It is the
same whether you believe or not believe me .-- I have trouble
enough of my highest consideration transform into love.

But even in this endeavor, I have the opportunity to make it very
clear to note that a similar Juliane forced towards them. She wanted
to love me and loved me. The heart is no reason, and will in this
as in other pieces, his understanding of the claim. It can
bully, but not force. And what helps himself to a martyr of his
considerations to make when you surely know that no one can find it
calming? I pity on me Juliane - or rather, I pity me of myself:
I suppressed my growing inclination against a other person and no
longer sahe is with pleasure that Juliane too faint or too after
seeing, was theirs to resist. This went on a man who is unworthy
of their well, unworthy as he is a friend to have. Adrast would
be happiness in their eyes, become aware of long ago, when Adrast
left enough, looks right to do so. He sees everything through the
tinted glass of his preconceived opinions, and all the top, and
would often prefer to deny its meaning, as his zeal to give up.

Juliane Because he was gracious, I could not imagine that he was
indeed corrupt. I thought for funding, the two with the best ways
to teach that it is not me as a dangerous impediment to view. I arrived
just now in this intention hieher alone had me Adrast without
disgraceful deterrence, that come from?

I would, without another word, leaving, if I am not yet that person
would have been forced because of me, by reason of my soul,
everything begrudge what she herself wants more .-- I tell him
not to. (He Will Forte go.) Adrast. Where, Theophanes - judgments
from my Stilleschweigen you how great my surprise, must be - it is
a human weakness, one that is easy to talk about what they strongly
desire. Should I send her to hang on? should I suppress it? Theophanes.
I want to present your idea not be .-- Adrast. Woe betide the one
who takes me on such a cruel kind of winding think! Theophanes. To
Avenge me because your uncertainty marternde to you! Adrast
(aside).

Now I want to catch him .-- Do you want me to say a word allow
Theophanes - How can you have an angry man, the more out of amazement
at his fortune, as from censure against you doubt? - Theophanes.
Adrast, I will be ashamed of, just a moment gezürnt to have when
you want to talk sensibly. Adrast. If it is true that you
Juliane not love, it is not necessary
that you discover the Lisidor?

Theophanes. However. Adrast.

And you are really minded? Theophanes.

And the sooner, the better. Adrast. They want the Lisidor say that you
do not love Juliane? Theophanes. What else? Adrast. That you love
another person? Theophanes. Above all else, to him be no reason to
give, Julian returned to normal connection to the load set. Adrast.
Did you mean all this equal jetzo do? Theophanes. DC jetzo? -
Adrast (aside). Now I have him! - Yes, the same jetzo. Theophanes.
Did you also probably just do this step? Did you Lisidor to say that
you are not loved Henriette? Adrast. I burn before the request.
Theophanes. Juliane and that you loved? Adrast.

You doubt? Theophanes. Well well! How to get. Adrast (aside). He wants
- Theophanes. Only quick! Adrast. Do it right. Theophanes. And what
am I to even consider? Adrast. There is still time .-- Theophanes.
They keep to themselves. Just gone! - (As he wants to go forward.)

You stay back? They are thoughts? You see me with one eye, which
reveals the surprise? What is this? - Adrast (after a small break).
Theophanes - Theophanes.

Well - I am not ready? Adrast (stirred). Theophanes - you deserve
an honest man Theophanes.

How to get it now? Adrast. As I come to now? Can I ask for a more
evidence that you enjoy my happiness is not indifferent? Theophanes.
You know this very late - but you still recognize it .-- Liebster
Adrast, I must embrace you .-- Adrast. I am ashamed of myself - let
me alone, I want them soon follow .-- Theophanes. I will not leave
you .-- Is it possible that I have your disgust against me overcome
it? That I him by a sacrifice to overcome, which will cost me so
little? Oh!

Adrast, you do not yet know how selfish I am this, I will perhaps all
of your respect by losing again - I love Henriette. Adrast. They love
Henriette? Heaven! so we can still both be happy. Why have we
not rather have to explain? Theophanes O! Theophanes! I would
your whole performance with a different eye viewed. It would be the
bitterness of my suspicion, my allegations not been suspended.
Theophanes. No excuses, Adrast! An unfortunate prejudices and love
are two pieces which an already hinreichet, a man with something
to do other things than he is .-- But what we linger here longer?
Adrast. Yes, Theophanes, now let's hurry .-- But if we would be
contrary Lisidor? - When Juliane another loved? - Theophanes. Grasp
courage. Here Lisidor ways; the point.

Lisidor Fourth appearance. Theophanes. Adrast. Lisidor. You're fine
to me folks! Should I because constantly with the strange cousin
to be alone? Theophanes. We were in the same concept to come
to you. Lisidor. What have you done now back together?

question? Believe me but only in the ways; the point quarreling nothing
out. You have both, both have their right .-- For example: (for
Theophanes) The talks, the reason is weak, and (for Adrast) speaks,
the reason is strong. That beweiset with strong reasons, that reason
is weak, and those with weak grounds that it is strong. Ways; the
point is now not on one out? weak and strong,
or strong and weak, what is there a difference?

Theophanes.

Let, now we have neither the strength nor the weakness of reason
spoken - Lisidor.

Now! so it was a bit of other things that just has to mean the
freedom .-- From about: Whether a hungry ass, between two bundles
of hay is to be totally alike, the property has, by the first of
the best to eat or, if the donkey as an ass to be that he prefers
to death? - Adrast. Also it is not thought. We busy ourselves with
a case in which the chief is now on you ankömmt. Lisidor. On me?
Theophanes.

On you, you all happiness in our hands. Lisidor. Oh! you will do
me a favor if you do so quickly as possible, in your own hands, do
you think .-- surely fortunate in whalebone skirts? For a long time
I have myself no longer want to keep happy. Because man is a man
and a maid a maiden, and happiness and glass as soon as the breaks!

Theophanes. We are grateful for his life is not enough to expect
that to us as a close connection gewürdiget have. But it still
faces a great difficulty. Lisidor. What? Adrast. Send to a
difficulty, which was impossible to predict.

Lisidor. Nu? Theophanes and Adrast. We must confess - Lisidor.
Both at the same time? What will that be? I have heard you
properly .-- What you admit, Theophanes - Theophanes. I have to admit
- that I do not love Juliane. Lisidor. Not love? I have fairly heard?
- And what's your confession, Adrast - Adrast.

I have to admit - that I do not love Henriette. Lisidor. Not love -
not love you, and you do not love, it can be impossible! Their dispute
heads, it has never been agreed on are, should jetzo for the first
time agreed, because it ankömmt pointed me to the chair before the
door to - Oh! their jokes, and now I notice's erst Adrast. We? joke?
Lisidor. Or you must not be wise in his head. You do not love my
daughters?

the girl is crying his eyes from his head .-- But why not? if I may
ask. What is missing because Juliane that you do not love them?
Theophanes. You the truth, to confess, I think her heart, even for
another is used. Adrast. And this is why I suspect also by Henriette.
Lisidor. Ho! ho! behind it, I must come .-- Lisette! he! Lisette -
You're So probably even jealous, and just want to threaten? Theophanes.
Threatening? because of your goodness we now have most needed?
Lisidor. Hey there! Lisette! Fifth appearance Lisette. Lisidor.
Theophanes. Adrast. Lisette. Here I am already! What's up?
Lisidor. Sage, they will also come. Lisette. Who then? Lisidor.
Both! do not you? Lisette. My maids? Lisidor. You still ask?
Lisette. Immediately I want to get it. (By subsequently reversed.)
I can not predict what they should be here?

Lisidor. No! Lisette (and ways; the point again). If they ask me
now? Lisidor. Will you go? Lisette. I geh. - (ways; the point
again.) It's probably something important? Lisidor. I think you
Maulaffe want to know more than they? Lisette. Only gently! I'm
not so curious. Lisidor sixth appearance. Theophanes. Adrast.
Lisidor. You have me totally confused all at once made. But just be
patient, I want the thing goes back to get his way. That would be my
objectives when I look at a couple other sons-in-law would have to
search!
_On the contrary,_ Penance is a kind of sacrifice, according to Ps.
50:19: "A sacrifice to God is an afflicted spirit." But to offer a
sacrifice is an act of the will, according to Ps. 53:8: "I will
freely sacrifice to Thee." Therefore penance is in the will.

_I answer that,_ We can speak of penance in two ways: first, in so
far as it is a passion, and thus, since it is a kind of sorrow, it is
in the concupiscible part as its subject; secondly, in so far as it
is a virtue, and thus, as stated above (A. 3), it is a species of
justice. Now justice, as stated in the Second Part (I-II, Q. 56, A.
6), is subjected in the rational appetite which is the will.
Therefore it is evident that penance, in so far as it is a virtue, is
subjected in the will, and its proper act is the purpose of amending
what was committed against God.

Reply Obj. 1: This argument considers penance as a passion.

Reply Obj. 2: To desire vengeance on another, through passion,
belongs to the irascible appetite, but to desire or take vengeance on
oneself or on another, through reason, belongs to the will.

Reply Obj. 3: The memory is a power that apprehends the past. But
penance belongs not to the apprehensive but to the appetitive power,
which presupposes an act of the apprehension. Wherefore penance is
not in the memory, but presupposes it.

FROM THE heretic SOANA by Gerhart Hauptmann S. 1922 Fischer Verlag
Berlin 114th to 124th Edition Copyright 1918 by S. Fischer Verlag
Berlin travelers can pave the way to the summit of Monte Generoso in
Mendrisio applies or in Capolago
funicular, or by Melide from over Soana, where he is most troublesome.

The whole area belongs to the Ticino, a canton of Switzerland, whose
population is Italian.

In high-altitude climbers were not uncommon on the shape of a
brilletragenden goat herders, whose appearance was otherwise
conspicuous.

The face was the man of education recognize, despite his tanned skin.
He saw the bronze effigy of John the Baptist, the works of Donatello
in the Dome to Siena, not dissimilar. His hair was dark and ringelte
on brown shoulders.

His dress consisted of goatskin. When a group of people close
to this stranger came, laughed so already guide. Often, if the tourists
saw him, they broke into a roar naughty or noisy challenges: it
is believed by the strangeness of sights entitled. The pastor does
not watch her.

He used not even to turn his head. Mountainguide All seemed to basically
agree with him on a good foot to stand. Often she climbed
over to him and settled in confidential interviews On. When they
returned and the stranger were asked what was strange for a saint
that they usually did so long in secret, until he was face width.

Those travelers but whose curiosity was still brisk, now learned
that this man had a dark history and, as "the heretics of Soana"
from the vernacular means a superstitious fear mixed with dubious
enjoy respect. * * * * * When the publisher of these leaves
are still young in years, and had the good fortune, often glorious
weeks in the beautiful Soana zuzubringen it could not materialize,
that he now and then ascended the Generoso and one day the so-called
"heretics by Soana" to see.

The sight of the man but he has not forgot. And after all kinds of
contradictions explored Talking about him had ripened in him the
decision to him again, yes, it easy to visit. The editor was in
his intention by a Swiss German, the physician of Soana, reenforced,
he assured, as the Sonderling visits educated people are not
reluctant to see. He himself had visited him once. "Actually, I
should be cross with him," said he, "because I think the lad into
the craft pfuscht. But he lives so high in altitude, so far away, and
will thank God, only by the few secretly asked for advice, which is
not ankäme to cure by the devil to leave. "The doctor went on:"
They need to know , we believes in people, he had prescribed the
devil.
Reply Obj. 1: Sin begins to displease a man, especially a sinner, on
account of the punishments which servile fear regards, before it
displeases him on account of its being an offense against God, or on
account of its wickedness, which pertains to charity.

Reply Obj. 2: When the kingdom of heaven is said to be at hand, we
are to understand that the king is on his way, not only to reward but
also to punish. Wherefore John the Baptist said (Matt. 3:7): "Ye
brood of vipers, who hath showed you to flee from the wrath to come?"

Reply Obj. 3: Even the movement of fear proceeds from God's act in
turning the heart; wherefore it is written (Deut. 5:29): "Who shall
give them to have such a mind, to fear Me?" And so the fact that
penance results from fear does not hinder its resulting from the act
of God in turning the heart.
_______________________

SIXTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 85, Art. 6]

Whether Penance Is the First of the Virtues?

Objection 1: It would seem that penance is the first of the virtues.
Because, on Matt. 3:2, "Do penance," etc., a gloss says: "The first
virtue is to destroy the old man, and hate sin by means of penance."

Obj. 2: Further, withdrawal from one extreme seems to precede
approach to the other. Now all the other virtues seem to regard
approach to a term, because they all direct man to do good; whereas
penance seems to direct him to withdraw from evil. Therefore it seems
that penance precedes all the other virtues.

Obj. 3: Further, before penance, there is sin in the soul. Now no
virtue is compatible with sin in the soul. I come back to me.
(As he gets up.) Rabenaas you, Lisette! Lisette. Can you Hundsfötter
so Bockhorn to hunt? Ha! ha!

ha! Martin. Sick I still laugh about it. Ha! ha! ha! Johann. Just
laughs! just laughs! - You're probably silly when you think that I
have not noticed .-- (Beiseite.)

The Lightning Girl, what to give me a fright abgejagt has! I must
recover. (Go slowly.) Martin. Are you going? Oh! laughs him out! Je!
You laugh but, Lisettchen, but you laugh! Ha! ha! ha! That has made
you great, so beautiful, so beautiful, I want to kiss you like .--
Lisette. Oh! go, go, stupid Martin! Martin. Come on you, really! I
will lead you to wines. I want you to treat the jug wine to me,
the villain wanted to bounce. Come on you! Lisette. The missing me
yet. I just want to go, and the fun my Mamsell tell. Martin. Yes,
my Lord .-- He was removed! it was removed! (end of the second elevator.)
Third Lift First appearance Theophanes. Araspe. Araspe. What I say
to you, my dear cousin. The pleasure you attacked, and the
craving for your connection to be present, are indeed the cause of my
finest Anherkunft, only the single are not. I had to stay in the
Adrast finally ausgekundschaftet, and it was very dear to me, in
this way, as they say, two litters with a stone to do so. The change
of Adrast are in ruins, and I have not the slightest desire to him
even the smallest indulgence to treat. Although I am amazing, him,
which I never would have imagined, in the home of your future father-in-law
to find him on exactly the same foot, when you Theophanes, to be
found here: but nevertheless, - and if the fate of him even closer
could connect with me, - Theophanes.

I ask you, dearest cousin, you affirm nothing. Araspe. Why not? You
probably know, Theophanes, I'm the man or not, whatever his debt
to a cruel way to press would be capable .-- Theophanes.
This I know and the sooner - Araspe. This is not the more valid.
Adrast, this man, who, on an equally abgeschmackte than Dishonorable
other type of people looking to differentiate, deserves to be him
again by other people differ. He must not enjoy the privileges
that an honest man his neighbor miserable else can enjoy happy. Clear
a mocking spirit, which we prefer the finest of what we possess, and
rob us all hope of a future life glückseligern destroy wants
vergilt one does not like with like, if he lives the present is
a little sour I .-- know it is the last push, I Put the Adrast;
his credit, he will not restore.

Yes, I wanted to look if I even his marriage could undo it. To me
it just to get the money to do would be: do you see as well that I
would prefer to promote marriage help, because it surely is something
in their hands will get.

But no, and where should I go bankrupt, which arise must also quite
simply out so I will still bring to the utmost. Yes, if I was
considering everything, I think it by this cruelty yet to prove a
boon. Worsening circumstances it might be serious about bringing
in his wealth to make, not worth it has, and perhaps changing, as
it almost always happened to cultivates his character and his fortunes.
Theophanes. I have let you finish. I think you are so cheap, and
even hear me now.

Araspe. I will .-- But I would have imagined it not that I am at my
cousin pious defense of Adrasts place. Theophanes. I am less than
it seems, and there are circumstances here that much together that I
almost nothing more than my own thing will lead. Adrast, as I am
firmly convinced, is that kind of free spirits, probably something
better to be earned. It is also very understandable that you are
something young people will resist, as can be. Man, it
is then only until the mind reaches a certain maturity, and the
surge has cooled blood.

At this critical point is now Adrast, but still shaky foot.

A little wind, a breath may again fall. The accident, which you
threaten him, it would stun him and he would be a furious despair
about, and have reason to believe the religion is not to trouble
their strict followers no doubts would have done, it should be
addressed.

Araspe. That is something, but - Theophanes. No, for a man of your
thinking, dearest cousin, this must be not only something, but
very much his. You have the thing about this site is not yet
considered, and you have the Adrast only as a man verlornen views
on which one to abound still a desperate need to cure dare.

For this reason, it is the vehemence with which you spoke against
him, to apologize.

Get to know him through me but now impartial judge.

He is in his speeches now confiscated more than anyone else I
described him.

If he denies, then he is no longer beggars, but all the effort,
reasons to make.

He starts on the evidence that you meet him is to answer, and I've
noticed it quite clearly that he is ashamed when he was only
half-point reply.

Of these he nor shame now and then under a contemptuous insult to
hide, but just be patient!

it's already much that he never Swear on the sacred things that are
against him
verteidiget, but merely on the defenders fall leaves.

His contempt of religion löset gradually into the contempt of those
on which they teach.

Araspe. Is this true, Theophanes? Theophanes.

You will have the opportunity themselves to convince .-- While
you will hear that his contempt of the clergy, I am now the most hits,
but I ask you in advance, not to be sensitive about it than I am. I
have I firmly made, it is not with the same coin to pay him but
rather his friendship abzuzwingen, it may also cost what it wants.
Araspe. If you are personal insults are so generous - Theophanes.
Silence! we want to mention there is no generosity. It may be
selfishness, it can be a kind of ambition to his preconception of
the members of my Order through me zuschanden to make.

However, it is what it wanted, so I know that you are too kind, to
me it means to stand. Adrast would certainly abgekartetes for a game,
when he saw that my cousin so sharply behind him Dreiner would. His
anger would fall solely upon me, and he would be all over me as a
vile calls to him, among thousands insurance of friendship, the
dagger into the heart have encountered. I did not want to be happy
that he is the example of hämtückischen parsons, as he called,
with a few slips of the truth by myself could proliferate.

Araspe. Dear cousin, I still wanted a thousand times less than you
.-- Theophanes. Let, then, that I have a proposal to do - or not, it
will be much more of a request. Araspe. Only without the
circumstances, cousin.

You surely know that you have me in your hand. Theophanes.
They are so kind to me and deliver the bill and my payment to
accept.

Araspe. And your payment to accept? At a hair you would have made me
angry. What you are talking of payment? If I were you would not
say that I now do not get the money to do so, you should at least
know that what is mine is also yours. Theophanes. I know my cousin.
Araspe. And I almost did not recognize him .-- My next blood
friend, my sole heir, sees me as a stranger, with whom he can act? (By
his Paperback herauszieht.) Here are the change! They are yours! do
you mean what you like. Theophanes. But you will allow, dearest cousin:
I will not turn as freely so, if I do not belong to the
kind of brought me. Araspe. Which is because the kind of belonging
among us, if it is not that I give and take - But that's all I lift
your scruples: probably! You will make a reverse of itself ensure that
you get the sum of these interactions after my death to the
inheritance again fodern want. (Lächelnd.) Miracles cousin! see you
not that I do nothing more than to advance pay? - Theophanes. You
confuse me - Araspe (yet the bill is in the hands). Let me just
the wiper no longer hold. Theophanes. Take under the My thanks for
this to. Araspe.

What verlorne words! (By he umsieht.) Insert hurtig On; ways; the
point Adrast themselves as Second Adrast appearance. Theophanes.
Araspe. Adrast (astonishing). Heaven! Araspe here? Theophanes. Adrast,
I have the pleasure to offer you in the Lord Araspe introduce my cousin.
Adrast. How? Araspe your cousin? Araspe. Oh! we know each other
already. It is pleasant to me, Mr. Adrast you here. Adrast. I'm already
all over the city to you durchgerannt. You know how we stand together,
and I wanted to save you the trouble, to see me. Araspe. It would not
have been necessary. We want our cause another talk. Theophanes has
to be made .-- Adrast. Theophanes? Ha! Now it is clear .-- Theophanes.

What is clear Adrast? (Ruhig.) Adrast. Their falsehood, Your List
- Theophanes (for Araspe).

We hold on too long here. Lisidor, dear cousin, will you expect
pain. Allow that I get to do it .-- (For Adrast.) Can I ask
Adrast that you are forgiven for a moment here? I want the Araspe
only heraufbegleiten, I will be right back here. Araspe. If I
advise you may Adrast, so against my cousin is not unjust .--
Theophanes. He will not be.

Come only. (Theophanes Araspe and go from.) Third appearance Adrast
(bitter). No, certainly, I will also not be! He is among all his
peers, I still knew that hassenswürdigste! This justice will befall
him, I can. Araspe He has come to express my sake: that is
incontestable. It is my love but that I could never have a drop
of blood zugetrauet honest, and his sweet talk any time have held
for what they are .-- Fourth Adrast appearance.

Johann. Johann. Now? You have found the Araspe? Adrast. Yes. (Still
bitter.) Johann. Geht's gut? Adrast. Great. Johann. I would also
recommend it to him that he had the slightest difficulty had been -
And yet he has already made his farewell? Adrast. Only pardoned, he
will bring equal to ours. Johann. He ours? - Where is Araspe -
Adrast. When Lisidor. Johann. Araspe when Lisidor? Araspe? Adrast.
Yes, Theophanes Vetter. Johann. What I ask of Fools cousin? I think
Araspen .-- Adrast. I include the. Johann. But - Adrast. But
seest thou not that I want to be furious? What plage du mich noch?
You hear so that Theophanes
Araspe and cousins are.

Johann. For the first time in my life .-- cousins?

Ei! the better, and our exchange remain in friendship, and your new
Mr.

Schwager is the old Mr. Vetter has cajole - Adrast. You fool! - Yes,
he will cajole him, me without making unhappy sight .-- Are you
so silly, it must be a coincidence that Araspe here? Seest thou
not that it Theophanes must have experienced, as I stand with his
cousin?

that he had news of him has given my circumstances? that he has
forced him, head over heels over such a long journey to help ensure
opportunity not to be missed, to ruin my day to bring me this and
the last refuge, the favor of the Lisidors to destroy?

Johann. Damn! how do my eyes on! You are right. Can I use donkeys as
if by a clergyman, the speech is not equal to the Allerboshafteste
fall? - Ha! but if I have the black skirts at once into powder and
mash in the air could shoot! What kind of tricks they have not
already played!

One of us has to put some one thousand thalers: the venerable husband
was the love of your sister. The other - Adrast. Oh! not to start, my
vorzuzählen accidents. I want to see them soon geendigt. Then I
will wait for it, what happiness I can still remember when I had
nothing left.

Johann. What are you still able to take when you have nothing
left? I will say to you: I will still take you then. Adrast. I understand
you, Holunke! - Johann. Do not your anger on me. Here the ways; the
point at which you can apply it better. Theophanes fifth appearance.
Adrast. Johann. Theophanes. I'm back here Adrast. It accounted for
some of your earlier words of falsehood and cunning .-- Adrast.
Accusations never represent me. If I argue, I bring them with
premeditation and deliberation before. Theophanes. But a
further explanation - Adrast. The fodern only of themselves Johann
(the first words aside). I must rush .-- Yes, yes, Mr. Theophanes!
it is already known that you my Lord a thorn in the eyes. Theophanes.
Adrast, have you ordered it, in your place to respond? Johann. So?
also my defense you did not want to indulge? but I want to see who I
should forbid myself to my Lord. Theophanes. Let him see Adrast.
Adrast. Hush! Johann. I should - Adrast. Just a word! (Drohend.)
Theophanes. Now may I ask for a more detailed explanation surely
repeat? I know it myself not to give. Adrast. Explain yourself
more than happy, Theophanes? Theophanes. With pleasure, when it is
required. Adrast. Ei! so tell me what would Araspe because, on occasion
what you already know the words say: Theophanes has taken it on
itself? Theophanes. It should Araspe actually explain. But I can do
in his place. He wanted to say that he sent me your errand to
change over to have.

Adrast. At your request? Theophanes. That may be. Adrast. And
what have you decided to do? Theophanes. You are you not yet been
presented? Can we decide on something before we know what you want
to do? Adrast. Kahle excuse! My cousin knows this long, what I
can do it. Theophanes. He knows that you can do to satisfy them. And
then you are not addressing? Adrast. You scoff. Theophanes. I'm not
Adrast. Adrast. Set but the event - and you can safely put it - that
I would be unable to pay: what have you decided alsdenn?

Theophanes. In this case, nothing is decided yet. Adrast. But
what should be decided? Theophanes. The ways; the point at Araspen
to. But I should think that a single idea, a single request in a
polite man, Araspe is how much gear can. Johann. After the
ears are horns .-- Adrast. Must I say again, that thou shalt be silent?
Theophanes. I would give me a real pleasure when I am through my
mediation service is a small erzeigen could. Adrast. And you think
that I hold you with a humble mien, with a creeping caress, with a
vile flattery should ask? No, I will tickle your about me not
proliferate.

If you have me with the honest history would have insured that your
utmost to do as you would in a few moments with a melancholy position
again, and sorry that your trouble for nothing was applied?

How would your eyes graze my confusion! Theophanes. You want me,
then no opportunity to study the issue - There is only
one word cost. Adrast.

No, this word I do not want to lose.

For short - and here you have my detailed explanation: - Araspe
would be without your instigation, not hiehergekommen be.

Hence Augustine says
[*De vera et falsa Poenitentia, the authorship of which is unknown],
that "it is irreverent and heretical to expect half a pardon from Him
Who is just and justice itself."

Reply Obj. 1: These words of Gregory do not refer to the forgiveness
of the guilt, but to the cessation from act, because sometimes a man
who has been wont to commit several kinds of sin, renounces one and
not the other; which is indeed due to God's assistance, but does not
reach to the pardon of the sin.

Reply Obj. 2: In this saying of Ambrose "faith" cannot denote the
faith whereby we believe in Christ, because, as Augustine says on
John 15:22, "If I had not come, and spoken to them, they would not
have sin" (viz. unbelief): "for this is the sin which contains all
others": but it stands for consciousness, because sometimes a man
receives pardon for a sin of which he is not conscious, through the
punishment which he bears patiently.

Reply Obj. 3: Although sins are not connected in so far as they turn
towards a mutable good, yet they are connected in so far as they turn
away from the immutable Good, which applies to all mortal sins in
common; and it is thus that they have the character of an offense
which needs to be removed by Penance.

Reply Obj. 4: Debt as regards external things, e.g. money, is not
opposed to friendship through which the debt is pardoned; hence one
debt can be condoned without another. On the other hand, the debt of
sin is opposed to friendship, and so one sin or offense is not
pardoned without another; for it would seem absurd for anyone to ask
even a man to forgive him one offense and not another.

Reply Obj. 5: The love whereby God loves man's nature, does not
ordain man to the good of glory from which man is excluded by any
mortal sin; but the love of grace, whereby mortal sin is forgiven,
ordains man to eternal life, according to Rom. 6:23: "The grace of
God (is) life everlasting." Hence there is no comparison.
_______________________

FOURTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 86, Art. 4]

Whether the Debt of Punishment Remains After the Guilt Has Been
Forgiven Through Penance?

Objection 1: It would seem that no debt of punishment remains after
the guilt has been forgiven through Penance. For when the cause is
removed, the effect is removed. I do not actually know what those
weaknesses should be required (but weaknesses need to be), which
you my heart so wohlgefällt, but I know that I will not rest, until
I do, Hülfe through my mind, it verdrungen have.

Theophanes. I did the test my sincerity barely begun, and your sensitivity
is already active. I will not go very far. Adrast. As far as you
want. Take only continue. Theophanes. Really? - Your heart
is the best so that you can find. It is too good to serve your
spirit, which the New Special geblendet has an appearance of depth
to shiny dahinreißt mistakes, and from craving to be noticed, with
all the violence to make something, which only the enemies of virtue,
which is only the bad guys should be.

Call it what you want: freethought, strong spirit, Deister, yes,
if you want venerable names in vain, call it a philosopher: it
is a monster, it is the shame of humanity. And you, Adrast that
nature to a certain ornament same, only his own feelings would be
followed to bring it to you, with such a facility to everything noble
and great, you dishonor intent. They rush wisely your level down,
where a mob of ghosts to gain fame for which I prefer to shame all
over the world wanted to choose.

Adrast. You forgot to Theophanes, and if I do not interrupt, then
do you finally believe that you are at the place at which their peers
hours undisturbed gossip allowed. Theophanes. No, Adrast, you do not
interrupt überlästigen preacher; reflect your only interrupt you
just a friend, - will resist your call I'm so - in a sample of his
frankness should sit. Adrast. And a sample of his flattery abgeleget
has - but a covert flattery, a flattery, which assumes a certain
bitterness to destoweniger flattery .-- You seem to be making that
I despise you finally .-- If the frankness yet so would you give
me everything under the eyes have said, what in your heart of me
think.

Your mouth I would not have borrowed good side to me your inner conviction
zugestehet not. It would me a straight Dishonorable of Olten, which
is the only religion that is why to avoid looking out his luster
more secure to hang on could. To express pathos, would you consider
me a hell of fire, an entrenched vicious mentioned. They would
no curses saved in short, so you would have proved how a theologian
against the scornful of his superstition, and also his reputation,
must prove. Theophanes. I am amazing. What concepts! Adrast. Notions,
which I of a thousand isolated examples .-- But we've come too far.
I know what I know and have learned long ago, the larva of the
faces to be distinguished. It is a carnival experience: the first
ever more beautiful, the ugly one. Theophanes. You want to say -
Adrast.

I want nothing to say than that I still have too little reason, the
universality of my ruling of the members of your stand to her limit.
I was under the exceptions around too long in vain, as that I hope
could be the first to you to find. I need you more, I would have
under different circumstances you have known when - Theophanes.
If you are my face, the justice should let go, it does not keep
larva. Cheers! But how can you get to be shorter than me when
you are approaching your handling worthy? Take me to your friends,
put me to the test - Adrast.

Softly! the sample would be too late if I understand you already
to my friends would have. I thought they should go before. Theophanes.
There are degrees of friendship, Adrast, and I ask the familiar yet
not. Adrast. In short, even at the lowest you can not be enabled.
Theophanes. I can not able? Where is the impossibility? Adrast. Do
you know, Theophanes, probably a book, which is the book of all books
should be, which include all our obligations, which we are all virtues
that give first rules, and the friendship which nevertheless does no
words? Do you know this book? Theophanes. I see you come Adrast. What
Collin did you throw these miserable abgeborgt? Adrast. Abgeborgt, or
self-invented: it is the same.

There must be a little mind to the truths are ashamed to borrow.
Theophanes. Truths! - Are your other truths are of equal quality?
Can you give me a moment to listen? Adrast. Again preach? Theophanes.
Force me not darzu? Or would you prefer that your shallow mockery
should leave unanswered, so it seemed, as it could not respond? Adrast.
And what can you get to respond? Theophanes. This. Tell me, is the
love the friendship, the friendship or the concept of love? Need the
latter. Whoever, therefore, of the love in their furthest
extent of all commands, not demands of the friendship? I believe
it should be, and there is so little true that our legislators the
friendship of his bid is estimated not worthy, that it is much
more to his doctrine of friendship against the whole world. Adrast.
You burdens on his inconsistencies.

Friendship to the whole world? What is it? My friend has not a friend
around the world. Theophanes. And so you probably do not match those
friendship than of temperament, those inborn harmony of minds, the
secret train against each other, the invisible chain, the two making
a thinking, making a favorable verknüpfet souls? Adrast. Yes, this
is my only friend. Theophanes. Only this? You contradict yourself
so Adrast. Oh! that their people but finds contradictions everywhere,
except just not where they really are! Theophanes. Think about it. If
this is without doubt not arbitrary, conformity of souls, this is us
in harmony with each other alone the true friendship is: how can
you demand that she is the subject of a law to be? Where it
is, it must not be offered, and where it is not because it is
offered for free. And how can you be our teacher put a burden that
the friendship
in this understanding has overlooked?

He has given us a noble friendship ordered that the blind side, the
irrational, the animals do not miss, can spare a friendship, based
on recognized mitteilet perfections, which are not by nature can
steer, but the nature itself lenket.

Adrast. O chatter! Theophanes.

I must tell you this, Adrast whether you know it could equal as much
as I, and also should know. What would you think of me even if I suspect
not all violence was looking away from me, make me as the religion
to a disdainful of friendship, religion, you only allzugern for an
important reason to despise? - See I'm not so contemptuous of,
please do not be so offensive to a kind of mine - Adrast (aside).
The Pfaffengeschmeiß! - Theophanes. I see that you need time, the first
reluctance to suppress, which a favorite opinion confuted naturally
excited .-- I want you to leave.

Itzt ohnedem I learned that one of my relatives arrived in the mail
was. I'm going to meet him, and will have the honor to present to you
the same. Second appearance Adrast him .-- That I should never again!
Which one of you black skirts would not hypocrites? - Priests, I have
to thank my misfortune.

They took me down, persecuted, so close they even the blood was
associated with me. I want to hate you, Theophanes, and all of your
order! Do I have since also here in the relationship of the clergy
advised?

- Er, this Schleicher, these stupid denial of his mind, should my
brother be? - And my brother by Juliane - By Juliane - What cruel
fate pursues me but everywhere! An old friend of my late father
to pay me one of his daughters to. I eile mar, and must be late,
and must be those which at first sight my heart was the one
with which I could live happily alone, has promised to find. Juliane
Oh! So I do not warest you determined? you that I love? And so should
I do with a sister that I do not love?

- Third appearance Lisidor. Adrast. Lisidor. Because we have it! Again
alone, Adrast? Tell me, have to be philosophers angle creep? I wanted
what else would you rather be - And, if I have heard it said you
probably do with himself? Nu, nu! it's true: their men grill
catcher can certainly speak with nobody Klügerm than yourselves.
But nevertheless, our cats do not even a head. I am one with chatty,
it may be, of what it wants. Adrast. Forgive - Lisidor. Ever, with His
forgiveness! He gave me yet done nothing contrary - I like when people
laugh. And I do not want a honest man, if I am not a right to happiness
have imagined, the wild, as it otherwise at home, called my son to
have. Admittedly, since He is tall, He's been on tour, he has seen
the country and its people. But that He did so many changes would come
back, which I had not imagined. Since he is now, and spintisiert
of what is - and what is not - from what could be, and if it could,
why it could not be - of the need, and the half whole, the necessary
need, and need not be necessary - from the A - A - as are the small
little things, so in the sun's rays around?

by A - A - but Sage, Adrast - Adrast. Of the Atomis, you want
to say. Lisidor. Yes, yes, by the Atomis by Atomis. To read it,
because its a quite one thousand with a breathing can swallow.
Adrast. Ha! ha! ha! Lisidor. He laughs, Adrast? Yes, my good stripling,
thou must not think of the things I totally do not understand.
I have you, Him and Theophanes, often bicker hear enough about. I
reserve the best. If you are in your hair, so I fish in the murky.
That reminds some Brocke, which none of you can do, and it is for me.
You may not be so jealous of me because I am not enrich one alone.
This I take from you, my dear Adrast, and from Theophanes; and from
all I have to do afterwards a whole - Adrast.

That must be incredibly great. Lisidor. Why? Adrast. They combine day
and night when my thoughts connect with Theophanes. Lisidor.
The nu!

it is a pleasant twilight thereof .-- And anyway, it is not even true
that it differed so much wäret. Fantasies! Fantasies! How many times
have I not all right, where two simultaneously? I am only too well
convinced that all honest people making a believe. Adrast. If!
should! this is true. Lisidor. Now that you see! what is now the
back of a difference? Faith, or believe to be:
ways; the point it out to one.

Who can be all the words so abzirkeln?

- And I'll bet what if you only will only be Schwäger, no egg is
similar to the other may be .-- Adrast.

As I Theophanes, and he to me? Lisidor. Certainly. Still do not know
what that means, his cousins. The relationship is due to a wide thumbs,
and a wide thumbs down. And a wide thumbs, and again a wide thumbs,
which makes two fingers wide, and two thumbs wide - I'm a rogue,
if you're the deal .-- Nothing could be me but in the world is so
fun, except that my daughters so great fit for you.

The Juliane geborne priests is a woman, and Henrietta - in Germany
need not be a girl to be found, which for him, Adrast better sent.
Pretty, merry, fix, she sings, she dances, she plays, in short, it
is my body like daughter.

Juliane dargegen is the dear, holy simplicity. Adrast. Juliane? Say
you do not. Its perfections are perhaps less in the eyes. Their beauty
fades not, but it goes to the heart. You can enjoy their quiet
charms captivate and it bends with caution in its yoke, the other
forward in a happy rashness than throw them. She speaks little,
but also their lowest floor to reason. Lisidor. And Henriette? Adrast.
It is true: Henriette White is free and fun way.

Would it not also Juliane but if they only wanted to, and if they
are not truth and feeling that shimmer boasting prefer? All virtues
appear to be connected to their soul to have - Lisidor. And
Henriette? Adrast. It was distant, that I Henriette any virtue should
deny. But there is a certain appearance, which they suspect could be
difficult, if not other reasons why they would. Julians set grace,
her unforced humility, her quiet joy, their - Lisidor. And Henriette?
Adrast.

Henriette wild amenities, probably leaving their Dreustigkeit their
cheerful delight bite with the thorough nature of their sister from
splendidly. But Juliane gains - Lisidor. And Henriette? Adrast.
Verlieret nothing. Only that Juliane - Lisidor. Ho! ho! Mr. Adrast,
I will not but hope that you also are sick of the madness that the
people only the good and beautiful can recognize what they can not
get it. Who executioner has hired you because, Julian praise? Adrast.
Traps on Adverse nothing. I just want to show me that my love for
Henriette against the merits of her sister do not blind. Lisidor. Nu,
nu! if it is, so it may go. It is also certainly a good child,
Juliane. It is the eye of their grandmother. And the good old woman
has told a thousand times, the joy on their Julchen give them still
alive. Adrast. Oh! Lisidor. That was even geseufzt. What is challenging
him to vultures? Fie! A young healthy man, every quarter of an hour a
woman wants to take is sigh? His spare He sighs, until the wife he
has! Fourth appearance Johann. Adrast. Lisidor. Johann. Pst! Pst!
Lisidor. Nu? Nu? Johann. Pst! Pst! Adrast. What's up? Johann. Pst!
Pst! Lisidor. Pst! Pst! Mosjeu Johann.

If the Rogue does not come closer? Johann. Pst, Mr Adrast! A word in
the trust. Adrast. To come here! Johann. In the trust, Mr. Adrast.
Lisidor (which goes up to him). Now? what do you want? Johann (goes
to the other side). Pst! Mr. Adrast, just a word, in confidence!
Adrast. So pack you forth, and talking about. Lisidor. Speech!
talk! What can the son-in-law, that the father should not hear?
Johann. Mr. Adrast! (If it aside on the sleeves.) Lisidor. Spitzbube
You want me with all the violence of places have. Speech only talk! I
do know. Johann. Oh! They are even polite. If you have a little
moment there in the corner want to enter so you can always stay.

Adrast. Keep it! I ask. Lisidor. Nu! if it says - (click on them to
ways; the point). Adrast. Now say, what do you want? Johann (who
sees that he is close to Lisidor again). Nothing. Adrast. Nothing?
Johann. Nothing, nothing. Lisidor. The word in the trust, you
have already forgotten? Johann.

Potz star! are you there? I think you are there in the corner.
Lisidor. Fools, the angle is closer. Johann. That he has done very
wrong. Adrast. Hold me no longer, and talking about. Johann. Lisidor
Lord, my Lord is angry. Adrast.

I have before him not secret: talking about! Johann. So I have nothing
for you. Lisidor. Gallows thief, I have only thee thy will do .--
I go to my office, Adrast: if you want to come to me - Adrast. I will
follow you like. Fifth appearance Johann. Adrast, Johann. Is
he continuing? Adrast. What did you do for me to say? I bet it
is a trifle, and the old man will imagine that things are neck.
Johann. A small thing? With a word, Mr. Adrast, we are lost. And you
could ask that I be in the presence of the Lisidors say? Adrast. Lost?
And
what then? Explain yourself.

Johann.

What is there to explain? In
short, we are lost .-- But it would be imprudent to me but I never
imagined that you are even your prospective father-in-law wanted
to hear - Adrast.

So let me just hear it - Johann. Truly, he had the pleasure at once can
lose, there is ever to become a string .-- So!

Adrast. Now? what for a string? How long will you torment me yet?

Johann. A whole string Verdammter .-- Yes, yes!

if not often Serves be careful, as the LORD: it would like things to
come out. Adrast. Not Worthy Schlingel - Johann. Ho, ho! is my
thanks?

If I would have just said, as the old man was there. We would want
to see!

we would want to see - Adrast.

That you this and that - John. Ha, ha!

after these and those no longer needed. but I know well that you
think the devil, and that none is. I would not have learned from
you, if I was not the whole hell a Snip Chen wanted to beat. Adrast.
I think you play the free spirit? An honest man would like to get
it disgust when he sees that it is a rags every dog wants to be .--
But I forbid thee now, to me a word to say. But I know that there is
nothing. Johann. I should not say it to you?

I should you in your misfortunes can run? We want to see. Adrast.
Go out of my eyes! Johann. Only patience - you remember it so
well ohngefähr how your things at home have? Adrast. I may know
nothing. Johann. I say yes you do not even remember .-- but probably
the change that you make to the Lord Araspe prior year and a day
exhibited? Adrast. Hush, I hear nothing of it.

Johann. Without a doubt, because you want to forget it? If they would
only be paid .-- But you know as well that they are in ruins? Adrast.
I know that you do not need to trouble you. Johann. Also the verbeiße
I certainly think you .--: Far, is good for the shot, and Mr. Araspe
has not needed so much dahinterher to be.

Obj. 2: Further, venial sins are not forgiven without Penance. Now
grace is infused, in Penance as in the other sacraments of the New
Law. Therefore venial sins are not forgiven without infusion of grace.

Obj. 3: Further, venial sin produces a stain on the soul. Now a stain
is not removed save by grace which is the spiritual beauty of the
soul. Therefore it seems that venial sins are not forgiven without
infusion of grace.

Diósele name - adds - because they are usually discovered. "] [Note
44: _Las mouths abiertas_, sort of ablative absolute, frequently used
by our writers.] [Note 45: Llamóse _corchetes_, figuratively, some
ministers of the inferior justice, servers bailiffs, because
sentence Covarrubias, _Tesoro of the Spanish language or Spanish,
_ "asen ganchuelos like this."]

[Note 46: _Con mine merced_ God made me, said to indicate that no
wanted to risk anything close or on the wrong track. So they said,
or cunningly simple, those beneficial outlaws of the Sierra de
Cabrilla they started with what he had stolen. Of them said Luque
Fajardo (_Fiel desengaño_ _contra idleness and play, Madrid, 1606,
_ fol. 291) that, having met with them a farmer "and not take more
than fifteen actual expense of that trip were made quente fitted
to the seven and a half, not at the time Hallauer swap vn real good
and Labrador (giving that amount, and one more time by being away
from their hands) rogauales strongly Tomasso eight real, because
he seven were contentaua .-- No way (they replied): _con what we
do is our God merced_. "] [Note 47: _Mareta_, figuratively in the
sense that records the lexicon of the Academy:" Rumor of crowd
begins to shake, or to self-soothe after violent shaking ".]

[Note 48: In the prologues have tended to draw the reader _cándido,
benevolent, and other things pió_ this tone, and Velez played the
first two meanings of the these terms, pitting _cándido, which
etymologically means _ _blanco_, the adjective _moreno_, something
like that by the grace estotro years of 1612 Quevedo had used in
the prologue to _The World of dentro_ by: "The reader, as God me
deparare , _cándido_ or _purpúreo, pío_ or _cruel, benigno_ or _sin
sarna_. "]

Consequently, an infusion of grace is necessary
for the removal of mortal sin, but in order to remove venial sin, it
is necessary to have a movement proceeding from grace, removing the
inordinate attachment to the temporal thing.
_______________________

THIRD ARTICLE [III, Q. 87, Art. 3]

Whether Venial Sins Are Removed by the Sprinkling of Holy Water and
the Like?

Objection 1: It would seem that venial sins are not removed by the
sprinkling of holy water, a bishop's blessing, and the like. For
venial sins are not forgiven without Penance, as stated above (A. 1).
But Penance suffices by itself for the remission of venial sins.
Therefore the above have nothing to do with the remission of venial
sins.

Obj. 2: Further, each of the above bears the same relation to one
venial sin as to all. If therefore, by means of one of them, some
venial sin is remitted, it follows that in like manner all are
remitted, so that by beating his breast once, or by being sprinkled
once with holy water, a man would be delivered from all his venial
sins, which seems unreasonable.

Obj. 3: Further, venial sins occasion a debt of some punishment,
albeit temporal; for it is written (1 Cor. 3:12, 15) of him that
builds up "wood, hay, stubble" that "he shall be saved, yet so as by
fire." Now the above things whereby venial sins are said to be taken
away, contain either no punishment at all, or very little. Therefore
they do not suffice for the full remission of venial sins.

_On the contrary,_ Augustine says in _De Poenitentia_ [*Hom. 30 inter
1; Ep. cclxv] that "for our slight sins we strike our breasts, and
say: Forgive us our trespasses," and so it seems that striking one's
breast, and the Lord's Prayer cause the remission of venial sins: and
the same seems to apply to the other things.

_I answer that,_ As stated above (A. 2), no infusion of fresh grace
is required for the forgiveness of a venial sin, but it is enough to
have an act proceeding from grace, in detestation of that venial sin,
either explicit or at least implicit, as when one is moved fervently
to God. What a women! call Pampa. When questioned, the boy stated that
India had left behind almost Mrs whereas before, she climbed to
fourth, to fix it, and dismissed the child, saying that it was not
worth _ya_ ... -- You see, Paul? _ya_ That means a lot. - What
nonsense! china doomed if this does not know what he says, to
see what was entered when the child - not knowing Pampa. He added
that he found hair revueltos, very agitated, and gave a booklet
with pictures. -- How unreasonable of girl! - Don Paul exclaimed,
- if it was so, as it looks, how it would give you estampitas?
A good slap you should give, by long tongue; retire, if you do not
want to give me. But Misia Casilda had taken the lamp, and said it
would be fourth, to see ... Perhaps, the couple had returned and
they did not know, the lady in front, lighting, behind Don Pablo,
and india escort, climbed up the ladder, defended the winds, who
wanted to kill the light.

Above, faltóle the value delivered to the lady and the lamp to his
brother, asking first entry ... Already he seemed to see the body of
Quilito, inanimate, in the middle of the piece.

Don Pablo took the lamp, and was it the wind or were your nerves? the
light danced in her hand, at the risk of capsizing. The door
was ajar, and entered ... In the fourth study, in its place: books
on the table, a broken montoncito roles on the folder ... In the
bedroom, nothing: the revolt of the bed mattress, as the room was
free of avian own confession as Pampa, whom the boy had said that
there was no need _ya_. - Are you convinced, Casilda -- "said Don
Paul, - with your exaggerations are able to get crazy to anyone;
alight, which should not take Quilito. - Here's a paper - the lady
suddenly jumped. - What?

... Where? - Here in the pillow, clothes pin. Swooped on the pillow,
but neither Paul nor gift Misia Casilda could emerge, as they
entered the quake two, when they were in front of the eyes, could
not read because they scare cegaba. - Lee, Paul, my eyes do not
distinguish anything. - Lee you, rather, a daughter, I view cloud.

Go, Pampa, here the way. When he left India, Don Pablo Achilles, more
dead than alive, came to light, and tried to decipher what he had
written, but could not, could not ... - Casilda come, come ... The
mystery over the sign, and sat on the edge of the bed, embobado,
silently watching her sister. And then, as if coming from another
world, with the wind in the door and Gemi sobbing at the window,
heard
these words that the lips of Misia Casilda spoke seriously: My
Father!

Aunt of my soul, sorry! ...

The paper fell to the ground, and the father and aunt, as hypnotized,
did not move ...

Suddenly, the lady gave a scream and threw over Don Pablo, crazy ...
Running into the street, the police and to report and perhaps even
in time, could perhaps avoid the horrible disgrace. ¡Quilito dead! no,
nor thought, 'God would not be so cruel, the Blessed Virgin of
Luján not allow it! Crying, talking, is wallowing in the bed of the
dear child, kissing pillows, pressed sheets, that would seek to
bring him, soon, soon, soon ...

Don Paul, drowned, rehearsed calm, not to interpret the role, because
it was only natural that Quilito ask his father and aunt in writing,
that the pardon did not dare to ask out loud, as it simply said,
stammering, and after vain efforts, he concluded mourn for him,
embraced the iron bed. - But do not you move?

- Misia said Casilda, - run, fly to the police, do not waste time.
I crawled, and stumble like drunks, were both run down the ladder.
- Quilito! ¡Quilito! - Claimed Mrs. Their cries went Pampa and
Genoese ...

In the dining room, Sild aunt drove on the shoulders of Don Pablo the
above, put the hat over and gave her the cane, the Contero. - You going
to the police - recomendábale suffocated - and you talk to the head
at the same boss ... and to seek, to seek ... My God! All the time
that was lost!

You will be dead, dead! I will also go out to tour the stations and the
streets ... Go, go. Don Pablo left to do, like a dummy, without
speaking. And pushing, sister threw him out. But there was a step in
the courtyard, when someone knocks at the door, and then to the
gate with such haste, which suggested that the rush came. - Quilito!
¡Quilito! - The aunt cried, running to the hallway removed in the
hope that it was the dear child ...

No, it was not Quilito: a tall man, with many barbs was agape. -
You bring news of him - Misia said Casilda, - tell me, tell me,
where is it?

The philosopher, disturbed, babbling that he knew nothing, not bringing
any news ... - Yes, - said the lady, - you know him in the face, come
pale, her eyes swollen ... and yet, you're not drunk, no.

Agapa anticipated to avoid the light of the lantern, and dirigióse Don
Paul, who was not moved, at the threshold of the dining room.
- I have to talk - he said quickly, - follow me, out on the street.
The stick fell from the trembling hands of Don
Pablo Achilles ...

Misia Casilda was rushed to atorrante, and forced him to enter and
get in front of the light, I wanted to avoid. - You say you're pale,
Agape, do not deny what you've blown Paul now?

you come here to make owl ... Tell me, tell me, where is
Quilito?

What has been Quilito? We shook desperate inert grabbed his arm, and
this violent impulse, a tear fell from tabs and philosopher was
lost in the thicket of his beard.

The tears said it all ... Misia Casilda collapsed in the arms of the
hapless Don Pablo Achilles, which, under the weight of his sister
and his sentence fell on the ground, crying ... and agape, for the
first time in their lives, in the heart felt the cruel sting of
pain. ...

X and locked in his room, with double back. He ran the curtains of the
window, because the sun indiscreet she peeked, and after listening
a moment, if there were steps in the courtyard or on the ladder,
carefully removed from his pocket Gabán clear an object and placed
it on the table: there was a small revolver, like a shiny toy steel
Quilito, inclined, it looked, with that firmness with which those
condemned to death watching the instrument of her torture.

Ah, if I knew the poor aunt! twenty national had been used to buy
the terrible alhajita ...

Did not save generously committed? What better way of salvation than
that, so easy
and expedient?

Moreover, in a vacuum manot was pretending to fly, as if his arms
were wings.

To be paid to the Portuguese, and this was very problematic, thus
preventing the discovery of the forgery, and afterwards?

Rocchi, the Progress, and others even traps here and there and
encalleciéndose hands at work ... The game only, but not as close
to the table: his last card was played. Why fight over? If that was
their destination, to accept without blinking: he had come into life
by the pink door, and invited to attend a wonderful event to enjoy
food and music and pleasures without counting, and found the room a
dark, the banquet table of the desert, bread and water dish for
all the other guests instead of tuxedo shirt, and did not hear more
music than the plow, the hoe and hammer ...

Ah! No, thank you very much! he had not been for that, why do you fool?
What brought you? if there was any way of getting those few who do not
dress shirt, and walk and fun, it was going. Was there one? And
it was not necessary to break a sweat or your head? not much heart and
good luck. Pulse, did not, the luck had failed him: goodbye, and
to eternity!

But when she went for ever, disappointed, did not without bitter regret,
and separated from his father, his aunt and his girlfriend ... trinity
of powerful emotions, which link the world, which wanted to leave.
¡Susana! enternecióle remember this, and cried his first and only
love ... Life is a journey of pleasure, which is not paid the
ticket, but the broken glass; Quilito saldaría your damages, and would
go away, very far away, where the work is not a law . Who knows? say
there are other worlds, quite different from this miserable and
rotting nut who live, why not find any happiness in it looking for?

And if you had not, and could not find one worth more sleep forever
inside the cemetery, dreaming to go down here, like sleepwalking. He
took the gun and examined him, did play the trigger, put
bullets minute and before the mirror, as one famous suicide, he paused,
bringing the muzzle of the gun to his temple ... - What a feeling
so strange!

- said under that attitude - the steel is so cold that seems to receive
the kiss of a dead ... To think that just by moving your finger is
all over ... but not here, would be very cruel to them, my dear old
soul, which now, down there, experiencing the overwhelming shame
that I have caused, and strive for saving.

I'm going to put this gadget on the table and write at length,
confessing everything, I want you to forgive me, because without your
forgiveness, I would go quiet ... Tell me what, Dad? Expect so much
of his Quilito! I have pen in hand and paper in front, and I do not
know what to say, I ashamed to confess that his son is a fake ...

No, do not tell, do not you write anything, better than going quietly,
not goodbye ... Break this letter and write two lines asking for
forgiveness, no forgiveness because I am not going, I'm going ...
Susan, yes, a very long letter, so that you remember me, for me to
read, what a disgrace me! so happy that he could have been, and I
could not be, because of this evil trend, which I admit, I take
another way that the work which, inevitably, fatally, we are all
obliged to follow, I believe that me there is something Uncle Agape,
only that he is content with what you have, and do nothing, and I
wanted to have more, doing nothing ... What I put the name of Susana,
the hand trembled me: I cry now, do you lack courage? Woe! I can
not think of my old and in her, unafflicted ... Tiit Sild, I am
sure, is to keep my secret, and if he manages to retrieve the note,
my absence did not know anyone, anyone but herself and God, I
am consoled, because the idea that he had dishonored my father, after
ruined, and he knew, and knew that Susan and we all know, my last
moments amargaría more ... Bye! Susanna, do not forget me, pray to
heaven for your unfortunate Quilito ... Has gone very blured, but
you can read it, here it is already closed, with management making
good when I encounter, I recorded and not miss a good soul, it's gone
... He was also writing to the Commissioner, saying that no one
is blamed for my death: and all who do are killed, how many times
I've read in the newspapers! keep this letter in his pocket with
the other. Farewell to my old, I will put it in visible site ... Oh,
my God! When you come and see! Poor! ... here at the table, would fly
the wind, where the put? in the pillow, caught with a pin ... So!
Am I soon ya? go out on tiptoe, so that I feel, but first let
me look to the window to see if someone is ... You've called!
and I have not heard steps on the ladder, is it Dad? no, if he
kill me right here: his presence was unbearable to me ...

Who is it? Ah! Pampa is ... Tiit Sild of a message ... the gun here in
my pocket, or concealed. opened and entered the india, saying he
was coming to fix the piece, but he wanted to dismiss her, because
it no longer worthwhile. - Look, it makes things jumbled as they are,
and go. The empujóla and took the arm towards the door, she refused,
looking young man with strange eyes. - Child not wanting Pampa -
said slowly, with a singular intonation used to - hitting child
yesterday Pampa Why?

- Because you are so bad and disobedient. - What meaning disobedient
- What grace! disobedient is the person who ignores what is told. -
Ah! ¡Pampa making a case! ¡Pampa very sad ... last night dreaming
that mothers have died! ¡Knife to kill a Christian very long ...
I want to die! Poor! with the hands, horribly deformed by the Sabayon,
restregábase eyes, hiccups doing this pitiful child who will mourn;
Quilito, Compadecida, stroked the hair cerdosos, irreducible to the
discipline of the comb. - Do not cry, silly that you've dreamed
of is a big lie, everything that dream is a lie, you say yo! your
mother is healthy and good, and one of these days will come to see
you. Why do you think I do not love you? Do not you remember the
day that you came in that steam, I went with Tiit for you and you
gave comfits - Yes, yes, that day removing Pampa mother and siblings
...

¡Pampa not see them more! - Well if I told you you have to see you
soon ... so do not cry, you get very ugly ... and then I have
taught to read and write and count, if not well you know all this is
that you are not very clear ... And to prove that the child wants you,
I'll give you one thing. Suddenly, the whine stopped india. - Do you
see this album? Leather for all figures: because you give so that you
remember the child and you are good and applied; give you, on one
condition: that you have to be faithful and submissive to Mr. and
Mrs., dress you, feed you and educate you ... that care, if we get
sick ... Will you promise? Pampa said yes with his head and
received the album very surprised to see the children mourn. - Now,
go, go.

The India came out with the book under his arm, his face awash with
bronze mucus and tears, she cleaned a tab, while coming down the
stairs; Quilito in the window looked. The incident had shocked him,
though, that his heart overflowing with bitterness at the supreme
moment. - I had mourn this creature; Pampa Alas! Now it pains me to
have stuck yesterday, so unjustly ... What a beautiful day! to be
happy, to be happy ...

Tiit not leaving until you do not leave, if not, I atajaría in the
yard and bother me questions, and maybe I did not leave go of fear
... and will leave from here because I see in the dining room, since
the veil ... until I hear them, but not distinguish what they say:
this is what grieves me more! If I do not deserve it, old man
of my soul, so worry about me! I am a miserable, unworthy of your
affection, I have not managed to make your happiness, as was my duty,
and what you will see: Quilito dead quedaréis quiet, peaceful
disfrutaréis your rentita and Quilito die because it is a nuisance
and an embarrassment your family, because no one wants to be second
agape, as with so many Tiit prophesied what reason ...

¿Crying again ... Tiit rose leaves ... sounded and the gate is
already in the street, where to go? to implement the half that
I have spoken to crawl, digging the earth, as she says ...

And my fault! Ah! do not deserve forgiveness, what I have done
is wicked ... do not bother you, Tiit: if the medium, the infallible,
I have it here in my pocket. It's time: I'm going, is not that
Dad and I caught up ... I can not breathe, tremble as if he had fear,
and not afraid, but sadly, very sadly ... it was the bedroom, and
the rack picking up the hat, the sight of objects that were familiar,
emotion caused him so great and especially the key role in the
pillow, as a funeral _inri_, which began to sob. - It is a shame,
but not may contain: yes, here in this room, I have lived dreaming
...

What dreams! To get to this! Up ... and have value! He descended
on tiptoe and looked at the glass door of the dining room at Don Pablo
Achilles, from behind, seated, my head was on hand, and this hand
passed from time to time, for his eyes and his forehead. -
suffer, suffer, and my fault!

And I will get justice, papaíto of my soul, we will not see, but
Quilito not give you more trouble.

Bye, Dad, goodbye! Traversed the hallway, opened the gate and went
on those streets, aimlessly.

All walked in that day in San Juan, everyone was happy,
everyone seemed happy iban trams full of people, hungry for breathing,
fun, happy life ... - I do like all today - I thought the young man,
-- -laugh, enjoy ... it seems that I am just sad and unfortunate! Oh,
no!

they are my old, no longer will do no laugh ...
Why I have taken this road?

I'll go by the river, was lonelier ... But before going through
Susan's house, I bid farewell to her: how many times I have followed
this path! entered in this cigarrería to buy cigarettes, then I expect
the corner selling newspapers italianito: then gave my three trips
outside the house of Estevan She, on the balcony or behind the
lattice, I looked and I smiled, and it disappeared, I went to the
desk Jacinto and then to the Stock Exchange, The Stock Exchange!

Why have I stepped on the bag? I do not see where I am. He walked
very slowly.
Accordingly it is said that the ingratitude of sinners is a special
cause of the return of sins previously forgiven.

Reply Obj. 1: This is not said of these sins as though they were more
grievous than others, but because they are more directly opposed to
the favor of the forgiveness of sin.

Reply Obj. 2: Even venial sins and original sin return in the way
explained above, just as mortal sins do, in so far as the favor
conferred by God in forgiving those sins is despised. A man does not,
however, incur ingratitude by committing a venial sin, because by
sinning venially man does not act against God, but apart from Him,
wherefore venial sins nowise cause the return of sins already
forgiven.

Reply Obj. 3: A favor can be weighed in two ways. First by the
quantity of the favor itself, and in this way innocence is a greater
favor from God than penance, which is called the second plank after
shipwreck (cf. Q. 84, A. 6). Secondly, a favor may be weighed with
regard to the recipient, who is less worthy, wherefore a greater
favor is bestowed on him, so that he is the more ungrateful if he
scorns it. In this way the favor of the pardon of sins is greater
when bestowed on one who is altogether unworthy, so that the
ingratitude which follows is all the greater.
_______________________

THIRD ARTICLE [III, Q. 88, Art. 3]

Whether the Debt of Punishment That Arises Through Ingratitude in
Respect of a Subsequent Sin Is As Great As That of the Sins
Previously Pardoned?

Objection 1: It would seem that the debt of punishment arising
through ingratitude in respect of a subsequent sin is as great as
that of the sins previously pardoned. Because the greatness of the
favor of the pardon of sins is according to the greatness of the sin
pardoned, and so too, in consequence, is the greatness of the
ingratitude whereby this favor is scorned. But the greatness of the
consequent debt of punishment is in accord with the greatness of the
ingratitude. I saw the black, something with silver angesprengten
Krauskopf our landlord and wondered about myself that I am that shook
you almost livelier than the excellent friends.

They shall endeavor in person, Mr. Shimon, I cried when I him, and
glass bottle stand before me saw. Truly, I had never dreamed that I
once again would have the pleasure - I took the recovery rate is
not too late, because I suddenly saw all eyes on me, when you fear
that I would like to say something awkward. Our Mr landlord can
not be missing if we are once again a good hour treat!

Genelli dropped me into the word. Sit down with us, Mr. Shimon.
Your wine will still not quite warm. And what did you opt for a lean
gas lighting purchased? DC Much! where those people sit together, they
can be their own light to shine. But with the Rahl is nothing
to start. Celesti dei! how can you be certain inevitable things so to
heart! Humans can not survive on meat alone, and the whole rest
of begging - pah!

He rümpfte how he did it gladly, if he was probably of defiant
self-esteem, the full lower lip and emptied his glass on a train. -
Nobody language word, the little Karl slipped with a full bottle up
and put them out before the Masters. I saw now that Genelli was
the only one whose eyes have no hint of gloom and weariness
disguised, and that the powerful head of the bull's neck as yet
unbowed as ever moved in his lively days.

Now you say, he turned back to me how does the world? What power?
What makes the great Irrlicht? Nourishes be windy Flämmchen still
from the bottom of the swamp rot of his own time and useless? I
listened to you once the cartoons shown on this which I have
made great Impostors, they are certainly not yet to date, but their
time will come, if ever, a cock crows at him as soon as he has
blessed time. Pah! will be surprised if he comes a certain river and
will be set and the old ferryman until he reviewed the pass. But
we want to not spoil the wine.

Long live who's honestly thinks! Each raised his glass, I wanted
to do with Charles Ross giving you, but noted that it was not appropriate.
He drank silently, nodded to me melancholy to the glass and sat
silent again. Propósito A "who's honestly thinks!" Genelli started
again, because what makes our art Vogt, the Kritikus? Why did you
not bring him today? You know, really, I could actually never a
heart to hold him, but an honest guy he is. He stretched himself
just after his ceiling, which was sometimes damned short. Of course
then he got an inkling when his toes froze, and then he saw what is
better, bigger and width, and in those hours, we understand quite
well. But afterward he crept back into the narrow back, because now
even in this fashion is begging liable pauvres time. Have you
not seen him long? The last time I replied, you have brought us
together again. I met him before in your Omphale Chen Schack Gallery.
He did not know enough Bacchantenzug the bottom of the Predelle
to praise. These centaurs, he said, even the elderly have not
brought such accursed incarnate, dissolute rabble of Manngäulen or
Roßmenschen, and now only the women mares, especially since the top,
the smell of roses, which are so with hands use that never stopped
to wonder whether one of two stomachs, two hearts and six limbs
well before the strict science of anatomy could exist.

You know, he added, I am normally a supporter of realism,
determined and believe that the time of the gods, heroes and centaurs
is over. But most of these mythical creatures Genellischen must be
the hat away, and have the race, it strikes me sometimes as if he had
been, as no man could be such deuced Heide stuff from sucking their
fingers.

He's been there, too! said the master now, and his look was cheerful
almost solemnly. And what, in particular, the Centaurs are concerned,
why should I deny that I really understand this strange shift
of the ancient society in a sample studied, that I'm so happy was
the last of the centaurs to get to know personally? All eyes focused
now on him, which his is not under consideration, but how else
probably cares to do when looking at a Münchhausiade not wish to
be caught.

I will tell you the story, he continued, is in Fair umblickend circles.
It seems not right now anyway discourse come to want. The Rahl,
since he fell from the flesh is gone by the Trappists; his current
diet - it is certainly miserable enough - he suggests neither
mentally nor to own.

Roß friend, believe me, thinking of wife and child, and the Schütz
was never a great speaker. Abdicated people as we should, however,
are silent and only the mouth appear to a Kyrie or Peccavi. But,
as Falstaff says? Get the plague all cowardly memme! Karl,
have a nickname!

And now I will tell you how to do the centaurs have occurred.

It was the first summer, when I was in Munich was established, the year
hab 'ich vergessen.

June and July had been cool, but broke in August, such a killing heat
inside that one here in the city like in purgatory for air and I
grabbed's really at work is not endured, except in the heavenly
costume, in which friend Rahl was in Rome herumging in his studio,
to the amazement nice neighbors who, through the open window hereinsahen,
and to her great annoyance signori maritime, finally a Hern curate
of the district to him abschickten to make it respectable to be a
Christian farming and clothing to exhort.

As the rogue since the Biedermann Bart went to him with a good ham
aufgewartet and Orvieto eingeheizt has for so long that even the priest
at last the embers to the roof herausschlug cajole and he had one
of his vestments after another off, until he in the same simple
summer dress as his host on the cool tile herumspazierte, - that
you have, think I still have good memories.

Enough, I thought it does not last longer, and decided to include me
in the mountains a better ventilated shade angles to search, as was
my garret.

So I went with the car set a route into the country inside of the
Inn and then walked from the first station, where I liked the area,
with my slight Ränzel climb. Although there but the river valley
below "good air" was how the Tirolean say, but soon I noticed that
I am climbing in the midday sun was unusual, and was pleased after
two hours acidic large village of dense wave Walnußlaub me to see,
quite fat and comfortable on the sanftansteigenden heap hingelagert.

Towards the west of the mountain rose in height jählings until finally
the firs and pines of the breath out and it no longer could climb.
As above, behind the bald peaks had the sun, even in midsummer
and early disappearing shadows of the mountains a pleasant
coolness on the pour slope. So I was quickly decided to stop here to
do, although it is still not very quiet herzugehen promised.

It was just Kirchweih and stopped the only inn full of drinking,
kegelnden and juhschreienden farmers. Moreover, were a few
purchases and show booths close to the beer garden opened, between
which a colorful crowd drove back and forth, especially in front of
an Italian Bude, ausgestopftes a calf with two heads and five feet for
a few cruisers had seen. I versparte me this pleasure for the evening,
as I, especially after a cool drink lechzte, finally beat me by
through the hallway and stairs to the upper porch, where I was
behind the railing of the balcony around the corner a seat on the bench
and a red Seidel Tirolean conquered.

The wine before I put myself on the wooden chest Wehr, stretched
me to your heart's out and saw me while I slowly verkühlte, the peasant
throng below the tables on the garden fence and the next in cabins
across the magnificent Gebirglandschaft
beyond.

Barely half an hour I want to place, because I saw on the wide
lanes, one of the next higher-lying villages resulted in a very
strange swarm is heranbewegen.

I thought in the first moments, the wine I drank
a little hastily, throw so wonderful bubbles in my imagination
that I am bright days of fabulous dream dreamed.

It was also the mysterious yet so distant group, probably three
rifle shots from my Luginsland that my eyes were probably distrust.

But despite the fact that's in a quiet step moving, but it came
inexorably closer, and now I finally could no longer doubt that I
actually "saw what I saw and heard what I heard."

Just imagine, in the golden autumn sun came on the white dust of a
giant Bergstraße good centaur dahergetrabt, in a dignified quiet
four-four time, like the old mold, the William Tell playing and the
vicar in the hollow lane bear.

Behind him Dreiner, but shy away, around some horses lengths,
zottelte and trottelte loose a loud bunch of old mother, and
preßhafter lame man and very young children, all of which from that
remote village, either too old or too young was to Kirchweih join
the neighborhood.

The huge foreign guest wants to be good or evil in that respect,
that to him without any challenge, not by yelling or physical
Neckereien, the convoy was.

But the closer the adventurous train came to the village church,
the more I saw particularly the women tried to draw attention to
the still unsuspecting neighbors from afar to get through with the
Winke arid poor, Krückstöcken and headscarves, the idea about the
dance music and the Festival buzz around me, not her soul was aware
of.

For example, the pagan monster unbeschrien Mark approaching the village,
and only when it lodges
in the past and now just vorbeitrabte to the inn lossteuerte were
farmers inne that something went Unerhörte .

Now was certainly the effect that this interlude was, so huge.

In Nu everything flew apart, what the bottom of the beer garden and
around the show booths are zusammengedrängt had.

Like ants swarming confused, if you stick with the construction in
their faces, so men and women rushed in a wild flight away from the
inn, and each was looking for a door, a fence or a tree to reach
beyond where you ungefügen before the four-legged miracle on the first
attempt would be safe. Similarly, but hastily drove all the houses
and into the upper rooms of the inn were in the window and stared
horrified by the atrocities Scheuel and beyond.

At the noise of the first rebellion was followed by a deep silence,
even the dogs, which only infuriated losgebellt had retreated when
they heard the hooves of the mighty new arrivals have been observed
carefully with Bang whimper back, and only a small horse farm, which
in their cribs schmausten , welcomed him with friendly hospitable
neighing, as it so in any case, insofar as it belonged to them, her
gender made all the glory.

I was perhaps the only one who does not lose his head, first as an
old eingeteufelter Heather, I was, and in around the fabulous natural
history wohlbewandert, but also because the delight on the incredibly
beautiful no fear of the stranger was raised. What I myself afterward
in such Zwiegeschöpfen painted, or friend in his Hähnel Dresdener
theater frieze gemeißelt, would be against this divine boy in Meat
and bone except as against half thoroughbred.

Although admittedly in what nowadays is called whole blood, may not be
thought, if you want to make a concept of the miraculous Gaulhälfte
Kirchweih Guest. Think of the Bucephalus, or the Trojan horse, or
meinethalben to dispute the magnificent stallion, the Great Elector,
on the long bridge carries, and now presents you before that the whole
heroic Gliederbau most of the smooth-coated silver-gray ceiling was
lower than the one each muscle play and every wrinkle, which they
threw, the sun as hochgeschorenem saw velvet shimmer.

For this mighty frame grew a human body, that of dealing with the
animal probably could measure - arms, chest, shoulders as the Hercules
Farnesene stolen, right in the middle between fat and lean, the
skin and gently angebräunt also strong here and there hairy, as
well as by the powerful dark Schopfheim, his forehead and the main
umwallte nor a fluttering mane till deep in the back hinunterwucherte,
incidentally, just after the long slow Roßschweif black kohl, an
apparently well-maintained.

It was not be denied: the mythical creature was something in his
appearance. No trace of a thousand years of dust and debris, the
beard on the chin and dainty ruffled cropped, and as I only dared him
more seriously in the face to see all honesty, just like this was
like a wild boy, the defiant dreinschaut from embarrassment, I
noticed that he had a small Rosenzweig, just fresh, as it seemed, from
the bush broke into the dense hair was inserted behind the ear.

Thus, the beautiful monster leisurely into the yard of the village inn
getrabt, which now also the last guest, the Maßkrug the chest down,
with loud yelling into the house or the farm buildings escaped. The
swarm of old peasant women and children, the passage where he
remained outside on the street, and on the boldness of the high
passenger, so in the midst leichtbegleitet Kirchweih to go, it seemed
all the words in the throat to solidify.

At least one heard only one round totals restrained and buzz from
which only now and then a few natural sounds of terror and fear
hervorkreischten. Everyone expected the horror, and probably just
want to be the haunt not just for the body hafen Gottseibeiuns
thought that had come, all the half-drunken rabble quite in his sins
Kirchweih flower in hell remitted. The old heath but, in spite of
his hellish horses feet as a tamer, human friendly comrade. He sprinkled
straight on to the high porch, where I sat and watched with a
courteous mien, as one who
likes to connect with a stranger wants to face me, I just like him
zunickte.

But then, he's big shining eyes on the Schenkenberger girl who stood
beside me, two open bottles full Tyrolean wine in his hands.

She had it for the guests heraufgetragen the Hasenpanier had taken,
and was now because, although the Schneider village engaged, a
better mood in the room kouragiertes wife was beside me with no
inhibitions on the legacy to the wonders of innocence in the form
of view.

The stranger liked the clean prostitute - it was called the beautiful
Nanni - also be obvious, no less also the red wine, which she wore.
With so much of life, such Roßmenschen how little confidence
should be, he took the Rosenzweig behind Ohre showed only smelled
it, and then passed it on without effort, as head and shoulders over
the parapet of the porch of excellence, the beautiful child, something
geschämig tat, the flowers but not ausschlug, but in their Brustlatz
beside the silver spoon stuck.

At the same time they seemed to have noticed what the whole purpose
of homage. Without hesitation she handed her admirers, the two full
bottles addition, he also took a friendly nod, and then trains
emptied so rapidly, as our one two glasses of champagne
hinunterstürzt.

A approving murmur under the head to head spectators crowded
confidential accompanied this whole scene, and a few saucy lads
dared even a "well get it!" or "Gesegn 'God!" to call, but right
from the cautious niedergezischt. But even the foreign guest of
the wine seemed tongue solved. He said only some of the girls
like, but they did not understand and only with head and replied,
giggling.

Then he turned to me, asked me where he is located here, and how the
people wild with the hot Pelzhauben and ohrenzerreißenden music,
under which he, even he knew not how, is advised. I answered-let,
Mr Genelli, broke it to the landlord, the like of us eager gelauscht
had the language in which you are entertained by the ancient Lord?

In the purest Greek, Mr. Shimon, you may now believe it or not. He
said it is of course a bit more fluid than I do, but with a
hint of the Ionian dialect, which I sometimes difficult to understand.
However, it went. Not breaking iron and teaches radebrechen.
You will already have seen that in the dream entirely correct
Hungarian or Spanish languages, what else you want to be sour. But
you interrupt me again, let me rather a new nickname Carlo jokes
coming. Where was because I stopped? Right, where I turned the
tables turned and asked him how it is in Homer: Who and where he
was, where he lives and who are the producers. As strange as things
came out. Just imagine, the poor lad was so and so many thousands of
years through the high mountains ridden, in shops, he said, because
it is a country doctor - Kreisphysikus one would call today's - a
mighty big area on which had a loud wild, poor people,
shepherds, bear hunter, lake-dwellers, etc. Now it's just a hot
day, and he had in his practice over sharp gezecht, hineingegossen
what people vorsetzten him just because he is usually a glass of
wine or spirits gentians cured, and how he noon to a glacier cave
comes, he thinks, you want to make a nap, stretches into the dim
blue Eisspelunke out and sleep properly.

What happened next, he knew not to say, and I was able to pronounce
only the presumption that snow or ice shelves around him collapsed
and now only thawed should be that he, like any Mammutungetüm in
polar ice, fresh and without any Hautgout in his ice had preserved,
but with the difference that even his spirit, thanks to the many
spirit enjoyed by the inordinate long winter sleep and suffered
no harm, he now antediluvian as a mythological mystery to four
healthy legs into our entgötterte world could blow into it . I looked
at him in a nutshell, it went so well, about the enormous gap
hinwegzuhelfen to be awakening from its sleep separated. But I
soon noticed that the summary Weltchronik, I gave him winding him
very much interested. He just shook his head when I told him, the gods
of Greece were a position to overcome, and the small Lutheran
catechism, he knew just begin As with Augustine, or St.

Pius IX. Also, the political upheavals of the last three thousand
years left him completely cold. When I finally was silent, so he
sighed by reason of his right Zentaurenseele honest and said he
would be anything to him because I vorgefabelt from the Tenth unwise,
and that he was quite indifferent. So much, he noticed that it a
fairly gloating antics played with that had been stored in ice,
now that everything has changed and only he remained the same, what
he is not ashamed, because after the few samples of the world seemed
to him a lot paltry, shabbier and not once has failed to disclose
the woods thin, acidic wine, the women - until his girlfriend "Nannis
or Nannidion" (as he is the Nannerl translated into Greek) - simple
and glaring.

Then he told what he has been waking up for his experience had made.
No sooner had he of his coat glaciers melted from the shoulders,
and he had the last fog of sleep from the eyes grated, as he was
outside hinausgetrabt, angry about, He mentioned how long omission
of twenty-four hours, as it is a patient one hours deep in the valley
had to visit. When he umsah but it seemed so strange to him that he
still believed fortzuträumen. Dense forests, through which he would
otherwise pfadlos hindurchzuwinden had vanished, meadows, where else
the Ur and wild ibex gegrast, he saw colored cows graze herds;
here and there stood a log cabin on the way, highly filled up with
hay, and not infrequently, he saw small increases gebahnt, or bar
on Gießbäche, which he used with a powerful sentence had skip
them. Kopfschüttelnd he stopped and pondered in himself, how
everything about the night turns wants.

Since he is no friend of the senses was unnecessary after, he
decided, a nearby forest nymph to ascertain to ask, with whom
he stood at the foot confidential. He called her name down into the
gorge, from the still as it was the mighty fir heraufragten.
Otherwise, she was immediately released at the top of the canopy,
because they lived very lonely and had like a speech.
Reply Obj. 1: The same is to be said of the recovery of virginity as
of the recovery of innocence which belongs to man's secondary dignity
in the sight of God.

Reply Obj. 2: In these words Jerome does not say that it is
impossible, but that it is difficult, for man to recover his former
dignity after having sinned, because this is allowed to none but
those who repent perfectly, as stated above. To those canonical
statutes, which seem to forbid this, Augustine replies in his letter
to Boniface (Ep. clxxxv): "If the law of the Church forbids anyone,
after doing penance for a crime, to become a cleric, or to return to
his clerical duties, or to retain them the intention was not to
deprive him of the hope of pardon, but to preserve the rigor of
discipline; else we should have to deny the keys given to the Church,
of which it was said: 'Whatsoever you shall loose on earth shall be
loosed in heaven.'" Once again drew all the pictures of the last
few hours passed in color, still scrolls once the book is tempting
to his youth. Then the child is asleep, and it began to lower his
life dream. Printed by M.It was Lord
of NATAS, which to me at the dinner table sat. I have had during
the first course Muße enough to make these comments without the
interesting _vis à vis_ curious gaze through cumbersome to fall.
The new host seemed incidentally still several observations to
make, because at the upper end of the table this evening were the
glasses of several ladies in perpetual motion, me and my neighbors,
they had lunch on the maximum patterned with the naked eye.

The dessert was applied, the Director of the music was exquisite table
around his well-deserved reward collected. He came to the stranger.
This threw a thalers among the small collection of coins to the
surprised and whispered something in his ear collectors. With
three deep kipper seemed to affirm this and promised to hurry
and gradually returned to his chapel. The instruments were tuned
afresh. I was curious to see what that probably could have chosen,
the director gave the sign, and equal in the first bars I realized
the wonderful Polonaise from Osinsky. The stranger leaned nonchalantly
back in his chair, he
seemed only to include the music, but soon I noticed that the dark
eyes under the long, black eyelashes umherlief restless, - it was
obvious, he mustered the faces of those present and impression that
the wonderful Polonaise they did.

Lo! This train seemed to me a skilled human nature to betray.

Although the incorrect conclusion that one out of the heat or cold
to participate in the realm of the sounds on the coarser or lower
susceptibility of the mind for the Beautiful and Noble wanted to
draw, but also howls yes even the dog in the gentle tones of the
flute, the horse head on the other hand, the ears when the blare
of trumpets, courageous, proud raises the neck, and his kick is
stronger and firmer.

Yet nothing could be seen exiting maintenance than the faces of different
individuals with the most beautiful places in the piece, I made
the I compliment strangers on the happy choice of this music,
and quickly had a conversation between us about the effect of music
on this or that character entsponnen.

The other guests had lost, however, only some of which in the
distance to our conversation had gelauscht , gradually moved closer.
Midnight had come, without knowing that I like, because the stranger
had us so deeply into all the ratios of the people, in all their
inclinations and shoots can look into it, that we had to confess
silent, never thought so deeply, so surprising conclusions to be
heard or read have.

From that evening we went to a new life in the three imperial crowns
on. It was as if the joy of their own collection with us, and now
celebrate their holiest holidays, guests who never had ideas, more
than one night here to stay joined to the growing circle, and
forgot that they were people who by chance from all the world had
zusammengeschneit.

And NATAS, this strange being, the soul of the whole. He it was
who, when he was only until his next table neighbors had made known
to _Maître de plaisir_ hergab.

He organized celebrations, trips to the beautiful area and earned
the heartfelt thanks of everyone. Had he been through the appropriate
selection of the pleasure is all heart won, it was even more the
case when he led the conversation.

That delight tale of the squirrel of Oberon in life seemed to be
underfoot; NATAS was only allowed because the lips open, so
everyone felt first the loveliest of his heart strings attached, easy
to swing the conversation then running around the table, the jokes
were deliberate, the bold gaze of men, waggish the giggling of the
ladies, and finally swept the speech in such a tethered free streams
that one of them after little more knowing than that we have divine
amused.

And yet there was the magician who conjured up the spirit, far away,
according to Rohe's, Common hinüberzuspielen.
_On the contrary,_ on Joel 2:25, "I will restore to you the years,
which the locust . . . hath eaten," a gloss says: "I will not suffer
to perish the fruit which you lost when your soul was disturbed." But
this fruit is the merit of good works which was lost through sin.
Therefore meritorious deeds done before are revived by Penance.

_I answer that,_ Some have said that meritorious works deadened by
subsequent sin are not revived by the ensuing Penance, because they
deemed such works to have passed away, so that they could not be
revived. But that is no reason why they should not be revived:
because they are conducive to eternal life (wherein their life
consists) not only as actually existing, but also after they cease to
exist actually, and as abiding in the Divine acceptance. And now
that your mine, to blow me, it probably would have created, you
should use a single word can be persuaded that they should not jump
to leave? Do your work just fine. Theophanes. I wonder at your not
suspected. Your Gemütsart I seen him before. But it is nevertheless
certain that I neither knew, that was Araspe your creditors than
you have known that he is my cousin. Adrast. It remains to be seen.
Theophanes. For your pleasure, I hope you .-- Heitere only
on your face, and follow me to the society .-- Adrast. I will not
see again. Theophanes. What a decision! Your friend, your lover -
Adrast. Will not cost me to leave. Make sure not only that it
should be done rather than befriediget until you are. I will not be
your loss, and once even a last resort try .-- Theophanes.

Stay, Adrast .-- I am sorry that I do not like the moment from
all your anxiety have torn .-- Learn more familiar with my
cousin, (by the bill hervorzieht) and you certainly believe, if
you are already I have the Allernichtswürdigste want to think
that at least he is a man who deserves your respect. He wants you
just as careless with the best face, and therefore gives you your
change back here. (He goes to him dar.) They should be as long as
they keep to it for your convenience so you can satisfy.

He believes that he is in your hands just as sure, as in his own
palace. They have the reputation of an honest man, if you know the
glory of a devout do not have. Adrast (aback by the hand zurückstößt
Theophanes). With what a new pitfalls threaten me? The boons of an
enemy - Theophanes.

Under this enemies understand me, but what has Araspe with your Hasselager
to do? It is He, not me, dismissive of this boon erzeigen wants,
and if otherwise a poor complacency that name deserves .-- What think
you do? Here, Adrast! Take back your manuscripts! Adrast. I
will probably watch this. Theophanes. Please, let me not thing
without having a man come back, it certainly honest with you meinet.

He would have despised the offer of his guilt to push me.

(By the bill he anew darreicht, they tear him from the Johann
hand.)

Johann. Ha! ha! my Lord, in whose hands the bill now? Theophanes
(left). In the deinigen, without doubt. Always keep them, instead
of thy Lord. Adrast (is angry at the servant los). Shameful! it costs
your life - Theophanes. Not so heated, Adrast. Adrast. The moment
they give him back! (He takes it away.) Go out of my eyes! Johann.
Well, really! - Adrast. Where you another minute forgiven - (He met
him.) Sixth appearance Theophanes. Adrast. Adrast. I must be ashamed
of, Theophanes, and I do not think that you did so far and I am
with my servant be confusing .- Take it back, what you wanted to
steal .-- Theophanes.

It is in the hands where it should be. Adrast. No. I despise you too
much, as that I should discourage you, a vile, indeed, to celebrate.
Theophanes. This is sensitive! (He takes the bill back.) Adrast. It
is my dear, that you are not forced me to your feet to throw.

When they got back to my hands to come back, I can find decent
resources. I do not think it is ebendas. You will be pleased that I
used to judge and I am happy to see you from my heart to hate.
Theophanes. It's really your bills, Adrast? (By aufschlägt it and it
shows.) Adrast. You think about that I will deny it? - Theophanes.
I do not think so, I will certainly be just. (He tears them indifferent.)
Adrast. What do you do Theophanes? Theophanes. Nothing.

(By making the pieces in the scene casts.) I destroy a Nichtswürdigkeit
that a man like Adrast is too small may tempt speeches. Adrast. But
they do not belong to you .-- Theophanes. Do not worry, I'll do
what I can .-- responsibility consists Their suspicions still? (Geht
ab.) Adrast Seventh appearance (looks after him a few moments). What
a man!

I have thousands of his ethics and found that the larva of
holiness cheated, but yet none of it, like this under the larva of
generosity, would have done .-- Either he is looking for me to shame,
or to win. None of them should succeed him. I have to good luck, to
a local switcher calmly, with whom I, for better circumstances,
had formerly Transport. Hopefully they will believe that I am
still in ebendenselben find, and if this is me without the decency
to forward the necessary sum. I want it but why not make the buck,
whose horns I jump from the fountain. I have reasons is that I can
sell to advantage, if I only have time left. I must visit him .--
Eighth appearance Henriette. Adrast. Henriette. Where you get stuck,
Adrast? It has been twenty times after you asked. Oh! shame on
you, that I get to be a time to search, since you should be looking
for me. They play the husband too early. But safely! perhaps play for
the love and then, when it no longer play for andre. Adrast. Allow
you, Mademoiselle, I have just needed something other than the home
care. Henriette. What can you now need to do, when to me to be?
Adrast. You joke. Henriette. I joke? - Allerliebsten That was a
compliment! Adrast. I do not which one. Henriette. What a morose face!
- Do you know that we are about these morose faces will bicker,
even before the wedding we have permission granted?

Adrast. You know, that such an idea in your mouth not just the type
is? Henriette. Perhaps because you believe that the only easy-witted
ideas in your mouth is approved? Meanwhile, you have surely not a
privilege it? Adrast. You do your things splendidly. A Women's Room,
so ready to respond, it is extremely valuable.

Henriette. That is true, because we know otherwise weak tools at the
mouth of all to use. Adrast. God! Henriette. Your honesty Wollte
God! makes me laugh so much I also wanted to be angry. I am well
again, Adrast. Adrast.

You see again so irritating, if you want to be angry, because there
ways; the point but rarely more so than up to the seriousness, and
this makes your face so much nicer, the alien is in the same. A constant
brightness, an ever lasting smile is unpalatable. Henriette (seriously).
Oh! my good Lord, if your case is, I want you to make tasty enough.
Adrast. I wanted to wish - for as yet I have nothing to require -
Henriette. Still, this is my happiness. But what would you wish for?
Adrast. That you are a little more after the example of your eldest
sister directed Mademoiselle want. I ask not that your whole virtuous
nature itself to take, who knows whether they are made so you
would? - Henriette. St! betrays the whistle the wood, which they cut.
Have you heard yet if my this is true? Adrast. I listen. Henriette.
It's quite good that you click on the chapter of examples have come.
I have given you a little verse that vorzupredigen. Adrast.
What kind of expression! Henriette. Hum! They think that because
you think nothing of the preaching. You will find that I am a lover
of them. But you can only hear: - (In
his previous tone.)

I wanted to wish - for as yet I have nothing to require - Adrast.

And it will never have. Henriette.
So yes - you do the brushing away .-- I wanted to wish you a little
bit more after the example of the Lord Theophanes want.

I ask not that you all his pleasant way to take, because I
do not like the impossible demand, but something like this would
you for a good part of it bearable.

This Theophanes, under strict principles lives far as the principles
of a certain free spirit, is always cheerful and talkative.

His virtue, and yet something else, but what you will laugh, his
piety - you do not laugh?

Adrast. Do not disturb.

Talk to just continue.

I want my career under his work, and again
here. (Geht ab.)

Henriette. You must not hurry.

They come when you come: you will never meet again .-- What rudeness!

Should I probably about anger - I want to reflect. (If on the
other side.) (End of the third lift.) Fourth First appearance
Juliane elevator. Henriette. Lisette. Henriette. Say what you want,
his demeanor is not to excuse. Juliane. Which would then only have
to judge when I had heard his reasons.

But, my dear Henrietta, do you want me probably a little sister
admonition not übelnehmen? Henriette. I can not predict you. If they
should then seek, where I imagine - Juliane. Yes, if you go with your
fantasies about Koemm - Henriette. Oh! I'm with my fantasies fairly
well satisfied. I can not tell them that I ever had very misled.
Juliane. What do you mean? Henriette.

Must be because you always think something? You know so well, Henriette
like talking the day into it, and they surprised themselves at
all times if they are supported by a ohngefähr Pünktchen meets,
which is the spot that you do not like to make wishes.

Juliane. Now listen again, Lisette! Henriette. Yes, Lisette, let us
hear what the admonition is a sister who wants to give them to
me. Juliane. I sent you a warning? Henriette. Me seemed, you
talked about. Juliane.

I would be very bad to do if I have to say the least. Henriette. Oh!
I ask - Juliane. Let me Henriette. The admonition, sister! -
Juliane. You do not deserve it. Henriette. So give it to me without
my merit. Juliane. You will make me angry. Henriette. And I -
I'm already there. But just do not think that I'm over you. I'm not
on it, than about the Adrast.

And what I irreconcilably against him, this is that my sister
seinetwegen against me to be unjust. Juliane. Which sister are you
speaking? Henriette. From what? - From which I had. Juliane. Do I
have you ever seen so sensitive - you know it, Lisette, what I said.
Lisette.

Yes, I know, and it was really nothing more than a panegyric on the
innocent Adrast, which I just had to be suspended, that they
Mamsell Henriette had to make jealous. Juliane. A eulogy on Adrasten?
Henriette. Me jealous? Lisette. Not so fussy!

- Here's how the people with the truth geradedurch want: they do not
quite there. Henriette. Me jealous? On Adrasten jealous? I will, from
now on, the sky is nothing fervent beseech, as to the salvation
from the hands of this man. Juliane. I? a panegyric on
Adrasten? Is this a eulogy when I say that a man a day not like the
others can be cleaned up? When I say that the bitterness Adrasten
what my sister complains, is not natural and that they encounter
annoyances admitted he should have aroused? When I say that a
man as he deals with sinister thought maybe just too much beschäftiget
- Second appearance Adrast.

Juliane. Henriette. Lisette. Henriette. As if you were called,
Adrast! They left me earlier, rude enough, in the middle of the
survey of Theophanes, but that does not stop
me, that I do not give you the repetition of your own should be
consulted .-- treat to see you?

After your Lobrednerin surely?

I am not, indeed! I am not, my sister is there. A Betschwester
the Lobrednerin a free spirit!

What a contradiction! Either your conversion before the door
must be Adrast, or my sister seduction. Juliane. As they dropped
again at once is. Henriette. Are you not be so wooden here! Adrast. I
take you to the witnesses, most Juliane how scornfully she met me.
Henriette. Come only, Lisette! we want to leave them alone. Adrast
needs without doubt our present neither his thanksgiving, nor to
my business. Juliane. Lisette is here. Henriette. No, they should not.
Lisette.

You probably know that I belong today Mamsell Henriette. Henriette. But
when you see all the front, sister! If your Theophanes aufstößt
me, so shalt thou see what happens.

You may not think Adrast that I say this to make you jealous make.
I feel it, in fact, that I begin, to hate you. Adrast. It wants you
to succeed even difficult for me to be jealous. Henriette. Oh! that
would be great if you would like me hierinne.

Then, only then our marriage would be a fairly happy marriage are.
Enjoy, Adrast! contemptuously as we meet each other - you want to
reply, sister? Now it is time. Fort, Lisette! Third appearance
Adrast. Juliane. Juliane. Adrast, you will have patience with her .--
You have earned it but because she has the best heart of the world,
so suspect it was their tongue to make searches.

Adrast. Allzugütige Juliane! She has the good fortune to be your sister,
but how bad does it take advantage of this happiness? I apologize every
woman room, without noticeable error may not have to grow up, because
without education and has examples must grow up, but a woman's
room to apologize, which is a model for Juliane has had, and Henriette
became: until then my courtesy langt not .-- Juliane.

They are upset Adrast: how cheap can you be? Adrast. I do not know
what I'm jetzo, but I know that I speak from feeling .-- Juliane. The
fierce, as they should be long lasting. Adrast. So let me predict my
misfortune. Juliane. How? - You remember in what connection you are
with my sister? Adrast. Oh! Juliane why I must tell you that I have
no heart for your sister did? Juliane. You frighten me .-- Adrast.
And I have only the smallest half of what I have to say. Juliane. To
allow you that I will spare me the greater scope. (You go Will Forte).
Adrast. Where?

I'd give you my change detected, and you wanted the reasons that
prompted me to do not listen? They wanted me to leave with the
suspicions that I have a volatile, slightly fluttery witted mind
was? Juliane. They are wrong. Not I, my father, my sister, only to
have your defenses a right. Adrast. Solo? Oh! - Juliane. Keep
me no longer - Adrast. I ask only for a moment. The biggest criminals
will be heard - Juliane. From his judges, Adrast, and I'm not your
judge. Adrast. But I implore you, it is now wanting to be. Her
father, Juliane beautiful, and your sister will damn myself, and
not directed. I trust you alone of equity, which can soothe me.
Juliane (aside). I think it matters me, listen to him .-- Well well!
They say so because, Adrast what you resist my sister has taken it?
Adrast. It has taken me to oppose. It is too little wenches as
I do that a woman could love the room. If their Lineapelle Mente not
encouraged their gender, would you for a wild young man clad
hold on the clumsy, would be his adopted role. What a mouth
works! And what must it be a ghost of this employment is in the
mouth!

Do not say that perhaps in the mouth and mind her little or no
connection with one another. The worse. This disorder, because each
of these two pieces of his own path holds, represents the passing of
such a person less offense, but they also destroyed all the best,
what this person is still around to it.

If their biting mockery, their negative comments to see why, because
they are, how to talk care of them, not so bad meinet; berechtiget
you are not from just this one reason, what she says laudable and
binding, also for empty sounds view, in which it is perhaps not
so good meinet?

Reply Obj. 3: All integral parts have a certain relation of order to
one another: but some are only related as to position, whether in
sequence as the parts of an army, or by contact, as the parts of a
heap, or by being fitted together, as the parts of a house, or by
continuation, as the parts of a line; while some are related, in
addition, as to power, as the parts of an animal, the first of which
is the heart, the others in a certain order being dependent on one
another: and thirdly some are related in the order of time: as the
parts of time and movement. Accordingly the parts of Penance are
related to one another in the order of power and time, since they are
actions, but not in the order of position, since they do not occupy a
place.
_______________________

FOURTH ARTICLE [III, Q. 90, Art. 4]

Whether Penance Is Fittingly Divided into Penance Before Baptism,
Penance for Mortal Sins, and Penance for Venial Sins?

Objection 1: It would seem that penance is unfittingly divided into
penance before Baptism, penance for mortal, and penance for venial
sins. For Penance is the second plank after shipwreck, as stated
above (Q. 84, A. 6), while Baptism is the first. Therefore that which
precedes Baptism should not be called a species of penance.

Obj. 2: Further, that which can destroy the greater, can destroy the
lesser. Now mortal sin is greater than venial; and penance which
regards mortal sins regards also venial sins. Therefore they should
not be considered as different species of penance.

Obj. 3: Further, just as after Baptism man commits venial and mortal
sins, so does he before Baptism. If therefore penance for venial sins
is distinct from penance for mortal sins after Baptism, in like
manner they should be distinguished before Baptism. Therefore penance
is not fittingly divided into these species.

Others came later and searched but any reason for the striking nature,
and as a result of those practices to explain those countless
festival legends and myths.

On the other side believed, that possirliche drift, which is now
once at the feast was held, also necessarily belong to the celebration
ceremony, and held it as an indispensable portion of the service stated.
"- This is contemptuous chatter, you will have a Lobeck not
for a moment seriously.

Quite differently affect us if we use the term "Greek" examine the
Winckelmann and Goethe formed, and it incompatible with those elements
can be found from which the Dionysian art grows - with the
Orgiasmus. I doubt in the That is not because the like of which Goethe
made in principle, the possibilities of the Greek spirit would have
excluded. Consequently the Greeks understood Goethe not.

For it is only in the Dionysian mysteries, in the psychology of the
Dionysian state in favor of the Hellenistic Grundthatsache from
instinct - his "willingness to life. "What the Hellene guaranteed with
these mysteries? Eternal life, eternal recurrence of life and the
future in the past promises and consecrated; the triumphirende Yes
to life beyond death and change; real life than in the total
survival through procreation, through the mysteries of sexuality. The
Greeks had a sexual symbol, therefore, the venerable symbol itself,
the real deep meaning throughout the ancient piety.

All individuals in acts of procreation, pregnancy, birth aroused the
highest and most solemn feelings.

And since a venial sin cannot be remitted without mortal sin,
as stated above (Q. 87, A. 4), before Baptism, penance for mortal
sins is not distinct from penance for venial sins.