_Zadig_ had an intimate Friend, one _Cador_ by Name, whose Spouse
was perfectly honest, and had in reality a greater Regard for him,
than all Mankind besides: This Friend _Zadig_ made his Confident,
and bound him to keep a Project of his entirely a Secret, by a
Promise of some valuable Token of his Respect. The wildest hath
not such a heart as you; Runne when you will, the story shall be
chang'd:
Apollo flies and Daphne holds the chase; The Doue pursues the Griffin,
the milde Hinde Makes speed to catch the Tyger. Bootlesse speede,
When cowardise pursues, and valour flies
Demet. I will not stay thy questions, let me go; Or if thou follow
me, doe not beleeue, But I shall doe thee mischiefe in the wood

Hel. I, in the Temple, in the Towne, and Field You doe me
mischiefe. Fye Demetrius, Your wrongs doe set a scandall on my
sexe:
We cannot fight for loue, as men may doe; We should be woo'd, and
were not made to wooe.
I follow thee, and make a heauen of hell, To die vpon the hand I loue
so well.
Enter.

Ob. Fare thee well Nymph, ere he do leaue this groue, Thou shalt flie
him, and he shall seeke thy loue.
Hast thou the flower there? Welcome wanderer.
Enter Pucke.

Puck. I there it is
Ob. I pray thee giue it me.
I know a banke where the wilde time blowes, Where Oxslips and the
nodding Violet growes, Quite ouer-cannoped with luscious woodbine,
With sweet muske roses, and with Eglantine; There sleepes Tytania,
sometime of the night, Lul'd in these flowers, with dances and
delight:
And there the snake throwes her enammel'd skinne, Weed wide enough to
rap a Fairy in.
And with the iuyce of this Ile streake her eyes, And make her full
of hatefull fantasies.
Take thou some of it, and seek through this groue; A sweet Athenian
Lady is in loue With a disdainefull youth: annoint his eyes, But
doe it when the next thing he espies, May be the Lady.

    Thou shalt know the man, By the Athenian garments he hath
      on.
      Effect it with some care, that he may proue More
      fond on her, then she vpon her loue; And looke thou
      meet me ere the first Cocke crow

Pu. Feare not my Lord, your seruant shall do so.
Enter.

Enter Queene of Fairies, with her traine.

Queen. Come, now a Roundell, and a Fairy song; Then for the third
part of a minute hence, Some to kill Cankers in the muske rose buds,
Some warre with Reremise, for their leathern wings.
To make my small Elues coates, and some keepe backe The clamorous
Owle that nightly hoots and wonders At our queint spirits: Sing
me now asleepe, Then to your offices, and let me rest
Fairies Sing. You spotted Snakes with double tongue, Thorny
Hedgehogges be not seene, Newts and blinde wormes do no wrong,
Come not neere our Fairy Queene.

Philomele with melodie, Sing in your sweet Lullaby.

Lulla, lulla, lullaby, lulla, lulla, lullaby, Neuer harme, nor
spell, nor charme, Come our louely Lady nye, So good night with
Lullaby 
2.Fairy.

Weauing Spiders come not heere, Hence you long leg'd Spinners,
hence:
Beetles blacke approach not neere; Worme nor Snayle doe no
offence.
Philomele with melody, &c
1.Fairy. Hence away, now all is well; One aloofe, stand Centinell.

Shee sleepes.

Enter Oberon.

Ober. What thou seest when thou dost wake, Do it for thy true Loue
take:
Loue and languish for his sake.
Be it Ounce, or Catte, or Beare, Pard, or Boare with bristled haire,
In thy eye that shall appeare, When thou wak'st, it is thy
deare, Wake when some vile thing is neere.
Enter Lisander and Hermia.

Lis. Faire loue, you faint with wandring in y woods, And to
speake troth I haue forgot our way:
Wee'll rest vs Hermia, If you thinke it good, And tarry for the
comfort of the day 
Her.

Be it so Lysander; finde you out a bed, For I vpon this banke will
rest my head
Lys. One turfe shall serue as pillow for vs both, One heart, one bed,
two bosomes, and one troth
Her. Nay good Lysander, for my sake my deere Lie further off yet, doe
not lie so neere
Lys. O take the sence sweet, of my innocence, Loue takes the
meaning, in loues conference, I meane that my heart vnto
yours is knit, So that but one heart can you make of it.
Two bosomes interchanged with an oath, So then two bosomes, and a
single troth.
Then by your side, no bed-roome me deny, For lying so, Hermia, I doe
not lye
Her.

Lysander riddles very prettily; Now much beshrew my manners
and my pride, If Hermia meant to say, Lysander lied.
But gentle friend, for loue and courtesie Lie further off, in humane
modesty, Such separation, as may well be said, Becomes a vertuous
batchelour, and a maide, So farre be distant, and good night
sweet friend; Thy loue nere alter, till thy sweet life end
Lys. Amen, amen, to that faire prayer, say I, And then end life,
when I end loyalty:
Heere is my bed, sleepe giue thee all his rest
Her. With halfe that wish, the wishers eyes be prest.
Enter Pucke. They sleepe.

Puck. Through the Forest haue I gone, But Athenian finde I none,
One whose eyes I might approue This flowers force in stirring loue.

Nigh and silence: who is heere?
Weedes of Athens he doth weare:
This is he (my master said) Despised the Athenian maide:
And heere the maiden sleeping sound, On the danke and durty ground.
Pretty soule, she durst not lye Neere this lacke-loue, this
kill-curtesie.
Churle, vpon thy eyes I throw All the power this charme doth owe:
When thou wak'st, let loue forbid Sleepe his seate on thy
eye-lid.
So awake when I am gone:
For I must now to Oberon.
Enter.

Enter Demetrius and Helena running.

Hel. Stay, though thou kill me, sweete Demetrius 
De.

I charge thee hence, and do not haunt me thus
Hel. O wilt thou darkling leaue me? do not so
De. Stay on thy perill, I alone will goe.

Exit Demetrius.

Hel. O I am out of breath, in this fond chace, The more my prayer, the
lesser is my grace, Happy is Hermia, wheresoere she lies; For
she hath blessed and attractiue eyes.
How came her eyes so bright? Not with salt teares.
If so, my eyes are oftner washt then hers.
No, no, I am as vgly as a Beare; For beasts that meete me, runne
away for feare, Therefore no maruaile, though Demetrius Doe as a
monster, flie my presence thus.
What wicked and dissembling glasse of mine, Made me compare with
Hermias sphery eyne?
But who is here? Lysander on the ground; Deade or asleepe? I see no
bloud, no wound, Lysander, if you liue, good sir awake
Lys. And run through fire I will for thy sweet sake.
Transparent Helena, nature her shewes art, That through thy bosome
makes me see thy heart.
Where is Demetrius? oh how fit a word Is that vile name, to
perish on my sword!

Hel. Do not say so Lysander, say not so:
What though he loue your Hermia? Lord, what though?
Yet Hermia still loues you; then be content
Lys. Content with Hermia? no, I do repent The tedious minutes I with
her haue spent.
Not Hermia, but Helena now I loue; Who will not change a Rauen for a
Doue?
The will of man is by his reason sway'd:
And reason saies you are the worthier Maide.
Things growing are not ripe vntill their season; So I being yong,
till now ripe not to reason, And touching now the point of humane
skill, Reason becomes the Marshall to my will.
And leades me to your eyes, where I orelooke Loues stories, written
in Loues richest booke
Hel. Wherefore was I to this keene mockery borne?
When at your hands did I deserue this scorne?
Ist not enough, ist not enough, yong man, That I did neuer, no nor
neuer can, Deserue a sweete looke from Demetrius eye, But you must
flout my insufficiency?
Good troth you do me wrong (good-sooth you do) In such disdainfull
manner, me to wooe.

But fare you well; perforce I must confesse, I thought you Lord
of more true gentlenesse.
Oh, that a Lady of one man refus'd, Should of another therefore be
abus'd.
Enter
Lys. She sees not Hermia: Hermia sleepe thou there, And neuer maist
thou come Lysander neere; For as a surfeit of the sweetest
things The deepest loathing to the stomacke brings:
Or as the heresies that men do leaue, Are hated most of those that
did deceiue:
So thou, my surfeit, and my heresie, Of all be hated; but the most
of me; And all my powers addresse your loue and might, To honour
Helen, and to be her Knight.
Enter.

Her. Helpe me Lysander, helpe me; do thy best To plucke this
crawling serpent from my brest.

Aye me, for pitty; what a dreame was here?
Lysander looke, how I do quake with feare:
Me-thought a serpent eate my heart away, And yet sat smiling at his
cruell prey.
Lysander, What remoou'd? Lysander, Lord, What, out of hearing, gone?
No sound, no word?
Alacke where are you? speake and if you heare:
Speake of all loues; I sound almost with feare.
No, then I well perceiue you are not nye, Either death or you Ile
finde immediately.
Enter.

Actus Tertius.

Enter the Clownes.

Bot. Are we all met?

Quin. Pat, pat, and here's a maruailous conuenient place for
our rehearsall. This greene plot shall be our stage, this hauthorne
brake our tyring house, and we will do it in action, as we will do
it before the Duke
Bot. Peter Quince?
Peter. What saist thou, bully Bottome?
Bot. There are things in this Comedy of Piramus and Thisby, that will
neuer please. First, Piramus must draw a sword to kill himselfe;
which the Ladies cannot abide.
How answere you that?
Snout. Berlaken, a parlous feare
Star. I beleeue we must leaue the killing out, when all is done
Bot. Not a whit, I haue a deuice to make all well.
Write me a Prologue, and let the Prologue seeme to say, we will do
no harme with our swords, and that Pyramus is not kill'd
indeede: and for the more better assurance, tell them, that I Piramus
am not Piramus, but Bottome the Weauer; this will put them out of
feare
Quin.

Well, we will haue such a Prologue, and it shall be written in
eight and sixe
Bot. No, make it two more, let it be written in eight and eight

Snout. Will not the Ladies be afear'd of the Lyon?
Star. I feare it, I promise you
Bot. Masters, you ought to consider with your selues, to bring
in (God shield vs) a Lyon among Ladies, is a most dreadfull thing.
For there is not a more fearefull wilde foule then your Lyon
liuing: and wee ought to looke to it
Snout. Therefore another Prologue must tell he is not a Lyon
Bot. Nay, you must name his name, and halfe his face must be seene
through the Lyons necke, and he himselfe must speake through,
saying thus, or to the same defect; Ladies, or faire Ladies, I would
wish you, or I would request you, or I would entreat you, not to
feare, not to tremble: my life for yours.

If you thinke I come hither as a Lyon, it were pitty of my life. No,
I am no such thing, I am a man as other men are; and there indeed
let him name his name, and tell him plainly hee is Snug the ioyner

Quin.

Well, it shall be so; but there is two hard things, that is, to bring
the Moone-light into a chamber:
for you know Piramus and Thisby meete by Moonelight
Sn. Doth the Moone shine that night wee play our play?
Bot. A Calender, a Calender, looke in the Almanack, finde out
Moone-shine, finde out Moone-shine.
Enter Pucke.

Quin. Yes, it doth shine that night
Bot. Why then may you leaue a casement of the great chamber window
(where we play) open, and the Moone may shine in at the casement
Quin.

I, or else one must come in with a bush of thorns and a lanthorne,
and say he comes to disfigure, or to present the person of Moone-shine.
Then there is another thing, we must haue a wall in the great Chamber;
for Piramus and Thisby (saies the story) did talke through the chinke
of a wall
Sn. You can neuer bring in a wall. What say you Bottome?
Bot. Some man or other must present wall, and let him haue some
Plaster, or some Lome, or some rough cast about him, to signifie
wall; or let him hold his fingers thus; and through that cranny
shall Piramus and Thisby whisper
Quin. If that may be, then all is well.

Come, sit downe euery mothers sonne, and rehearse your parts.
Piramus, you begin; when you haue spoken your speech, enter into
that Brake, and so euery one according to his cue.
Enter Robin.

Rob. What hempen home-spuns haue we swaggering here, So neere the
Cradle of the Faierie Queene?
What, a Play toward? Ile be an auditor, An Actor too perhaps, if I
see cause
Quin. Speake Piramus: Thisby stand forth
Pir. Thisby, the flowers of odious sauors sweete
Quin. Odours, odours
Pir. Odours sauors sweete, So hath thy breath, my dearest Thisby
deare.
But harke, a voyce: stay thou but here a while, And by and by I
will to thee appeare.

Exit. Pir.

Puck. A stranger Piramus, then ere plaid here
This. Must I speake now?
Pet. I marry must you. For you must vnderstand he goes but to see
a noyse that he heard, and is to come againe
Thys. Most radiant Piramus, most Lilly white of hue, Of colour like
the red rose on triumphant bryer, Most brisky Iuuenall, and eke
most louely Iew, As true as truest horse, that yet would neuer tyre,
Ile meete thee Piramus, at Ninnies toombe
Pet. Ninus toombe man: why, you must not speake that yet; that you
answere to Piramus: you speake all your part at once, cues and all.
Piramus enter, your cue is past; it is neuer tyre
Thys. O, as true as truest horse, that yet would neuer tyre:
Pir. If I were faire, Thisby I were onely thine
Pet. O monstrous. O strange. We are hanted; pray masters, flye
masters, helpe.

The Clownes all Exit.
Puk. Ile follow you, Ile leade you about a Round, Through bogge,
through bush, through brake, through bryer, Sometime a horse Ile
be, sometime a hound:
A hogge, a headlesse beare, sometime a fire, And neigh, and barke,
and grunt, and rore, and burne, Like horse, hound, hog, beare, fire,
at euery turne.
Enter.

Enter Piramus with the Asse head.
Bot. Why do they run away? This is a knauery of them to make me
afeard.
Enter Snowt
Sn. O Bottom, thou art chang'd; What doe I see on thee?
Bot. What do you see? You see an Asse-head of your owne, do you?
Enter Peter Quince.
Pet. Blesse thee Bottome, blesse thee; thou art translated.
Enter.
Bot. I see their knauery; this is to make an asse of me, to fright
me if they could; but I will not stirre from this place, do what
they can. I will walke vp and downe here, and I will sing that they
shall heare I am not afraid.
The Woosell cocke, so blacke of hew, With Orenge-tawny bill.
The Throstle, with his note so true, The Wren and little quill
Tyta. What Angell wakes me from my flowry bed?
Bot. The Finch, the Sparrow, and the Larke, The plainsong Cuckow
gray; Whose note full many a man doth marke, And dares not answere,
nay.
For indeede, who would set his wit to so foolish a bird?
Who would giue a bird the lye, though he cry Cuckow, neuer so?
Tyta. I pray thee gentle mortall, sing againe, Mine eare is much
enamored of thy note; On the first view to say, to sweare I loue
thee.
So is mine eye enthralled to thy shape.
And thy faire vertues force (perforce) doth moue me
Bot. Me-thinkes mistresse, you should haue little reason for that:
and yet to say the truth, reason and loue keepe little company
together, nowadayes.
The more the pittie, that some honest neighbours will not make them
friends. Nay, I can gleeke vpon occasion
Tyta. Thou art as wise, as thou art beautifull
Bot. Not so neither: but if I had wit enough to get out of this
wood, I haue enough to serue mine owne turne
Tyta. Out of this wood, do not desire to goe, Thou shalt remaine
here, whether thou wilt or no.
I am a spirit of no common rate:
The Summer still doth tend vpon my state, And I doe loue thee;
therefore goe with me, Ile giue thee Fairies to attend on thee; And
they shall fetch thee Iewels from the deepe, And sing, while thou
on pressed flowers dost sleepe:
And I will purge thy mortall grossenesse so, That thou shalt like
an airie spirit go.
Enter Pease-blossome, Cobweb, Moth, Mustardseede, and foure
Fairies.

Fai. Ready; and I, and I, and I, Where shall we go?
Tita. Be kinde and curteous to this Gentleman, Hop in his walkes,
and gambole in his eies, Feede him with Apricocks, and Dewberries,
With purple Grapes, greene Figs, and Mulberries, The honie-bags
steale from the humble Bees, And for night-tapers crop their waxen
thighes, And light them at the fierie-Glow-wormes eyes, To haue my
loue to bed, and to arise:
And plucke the wings from painted Butterflies, To fan the Moone-beames
from his sleeping eies.
Nod to him Elues, and doe him curtesies
1.Fai. Haile mortall, haile 
2.Fai. Haile 
3.Fai. Haile
Bot. I cry your worships mercy hartily; I beseech your worships
name 
Cob. Cobweb
Bot. I shall desire you of more acquaintance, good Master Cobweb:
if I cut my finger, I shall make bold with you.
Your name honest Gentleman?
Pease. Pease Blossome
Bot. I pray you commend me to mistresse Squash, your mother, and
to master Peascod your father. Good master Pease-blossome, I shal
desire of you more acquaintance to. Your name I beseech you sir?
Mus. Mustard-seede 
Peas. Pease-blossome
Bot. Good master Mustard seede, I know your patience well: that
same cowardly gyant-like Oxe beefe hath deuoured many a gentleman
of your house. I promise you, your kindred hath made my eyes water
ere now. I desire you more acquaintance, good Master Mustard-seede
Tita. Come waite vpon him, lead him to my bower.
The Moone me-thinks, lookes with a watrie eie, And when she weepes,
weepe euerie little flower, Lamenting some enforced chastitie.
Tye vp my louers tongue, bring him silently.
Enter.
Enter King of Pharies, solus.
Ob. I wonder if Titania be awak't; Then what it was that next came
in her eye, Which she must dote on, in extremitie.
Enter Pucke.
Here comes my messenger: how now mad spirit, What night-rule now
about this haunted groue?
Puck.But what was still more remarkably
unfortunate, they appear'd at first View, to be a severe satyr upon
the King: The Words were these:

                                        _To flagrant Crimes
                                             His Crown he owes;
                                         To peaceful Times
                                             The worst of Foes._

This was the first Moment that ever _Arimazes_ was happy. He had it
now in his Power to ruin the most virtuous and innocent of Men. Big
with his execrable Joy, he flew to his Majesty with this virulent
Satyr of _Zadig's_ under his own Hand. Not only _Zadig_, but his two
Friends and the Lady were immediately close confin'd. His Cause was
soon over; for the Judges turn'd a deaf Ear to what he had to say.
When Sentence of Condemnation was pass'd upon him, _Arimazes_, still
spiteful, was heard to say, as he went out of Court, with an Air of
Contempt, that _Zadig's_ Lines were Treason indeed, but nothing
more. Tho' _Zadig_ didn't value himself on Account of his Genius for
Poetry; yet he was almost distracted to find himself condemn'd for
the worst of Traitors, and his two Friends and the Lady lock'd up in
a Dungeon for a Crime, of which he was no ways guilty. He wasn't
permitted to speak one Word for himself. His Pocket-Book was
sufficient Evidence against him. So strict were the Laws of
_Babylon_! He was carried to the Place of Execution, through a Croud
of Spectators, who durstn't condole with him, and who flock'd about
him, to observe whether his Countenance chang'd, or whether he died
with a good Grace. His Relations were the only real Mourners; for
there was no Estate in Reversion for them; three Parts of his
Effects were confiscated for the King's Use, and the fourth was
devoted, as a Reward, to the use of the Informer.

Just at the Time that he was preparing himself for Death, the King's
Parrot flew from her Balcony, into _Zadig's_ Garden, and alighted on
a Rose-bush. A Peach, that had been blown down, and drove by the
Wind from an adjacent Tree, just under the Bush, was glew'd, as it
were, to the other Moiety of the Tablet. Away flew the Parrot with
her Booty, and return'd to the King's Lap. The Monarch, being
somewhat curious, read the Words on the broken Tablet, which had no
Meaning in them as he could perceive, but seem'd to be the broken
Parts of a Tetrastick. He was a great Admirer of Poetry; and the odd
Adventure of his Parrot, put him upon Reflection. The Queen who
recollected full well the Lines that were wrote on the Fragment of
_Zadig's_ Tablet, order'd that Part of it to be produc'd: Both the
broken Pieces being put together, they answered exactly the
Indentures; and then the Verses which _Zadig_ had written, in a
Flight of Loyalty, ran thus,

    _Tyrants are prone to flagrant Crimes;
       To Clemency his Crown he owes;
     To Concord and to peaceful Times,
       Love only is the worst of Foes._

Upon this the King order'd _Zadig_ to be instantly brought before
him; and his two Friends and the Lady to be that Moment discharg'd.
_Zadig_, as he stood before the King and Queen, fix'd his Eyes upon
the Ground, and begg'd their Majesty's Pardon for his little
worthless, poetical Attempt. He spoke, however, with such a becoming
Grace, and with so much Modesty and good Sense, that the King and
the Queen, ordered him to be brought before them once again. He was
brought accordingly, and he pleas'd them still more and more. In
short, they gave him all the immense Estate of _Arimazes_, who had
so unjustly accus'd him; but _Zadig_ generously return'd the wicked
Informer the Whole to a Farthing. The envious Man, however, was no
ways affected, but with the Restoration of his Effects. _Zadig_
every Day grew more and more in Favour at Court. He was made a Party
in all the King's Pleasures, and nothing was done in the
Privy-Council without him. The Queen, from that very Hour, shew'd
him so much Respect, and spoke to him in such soft and endearing
Terms, that in Process of Time, it prov'd of fatal Consequence to
herself, her Royal Consort, to _Zadig_, and the whole Kingdom.
_Zadig_ now began to think it was not so difficult a Thing to be
happy as at first he imagin'd.


CHAP. V.

_The_ Force _of_ Generosity.


The Time now drew near for the Celebration of a grand Festival,
which was kept but once in five Years. 'Twas a constant Custom in
_Babylon_ at the Expiration of the Term above-mention'd, to
distinguish that Citizen from all the Rest, in the most solemn
Manner, who had done the most generous Action; and the Grandees and
Magi always sat as Judges. The _Satrap_ inform'd them of every
praise-worthy Deed that occurr'd within his District. All were put
to the Vote, and the King himself pronounc'd the Definitive
Sentence. Enter Pyramus. Pir. O grim lookt night, o not: night, o
night, alacke left alacke, alacke, I feare they noble thus deceiuing
mee Thes. The wall me-thinkes being sensible, should her fathers?
This. Tide life what see vp in thee Pyra. chinke, To spy and I can
heare my Thisbies. Thisbie?. My Loue thou art; she is to enter
his part discharged ere I me chinke, to blinke through mine eine.
Thankes courteous wall. and louely wall, That memorable stands
between at Ninnies no blisse, Curst be.

I see a voyce; now will I to the Du. night hue so blacke
Now, the. But wall, often hast heard with Lime and; so; this faire
Piramus, and, Pat I never told you so wilfull, to heare without
warning Dut This is the silliest stuffe that yonder she comes This
invidious morall between the two Neighbours Dem. No remedie my Lord,
knit me straight way till the Fates not me kill Pir, his and I am to
when are Ioue'd shield thee well for this You shall being done,
thus Wall off own wilt me My cherry lips haue often kist thy
stones; Thy material. Wilt thou curse Pir. in truth's sir, he,
Thou wall, my Thisbies promise is forgot. And thou o wall, thou sweet
Haire Her through the wall. will fall.

Enter Thisbie, I am thy Louers grace, And like Limander am I
trusty still This. And like Helen ground and mine, meete I? No drown
Thisbie doe I see. O full wicked wall, which his euer art,
when not theirs day is thy stones for.

O, tide, I come without delay Wall. Thus haue I Wall, Dut. Pir. Place
O kisse me through the hole this vile wall that This. I intended kisse
the wals, my. Not Shafalus to com two to you King the worst are no
a if imagination amend them not your lips, my Loue I thinke.

Thinke, O may'd passe proclaim excellent men. not. Deceiuing me, Is
Thisbies cue at all Pir Du. The best in this kind Prize are but
shadowes must tombe should was so true. As doth go. next Exit
Clow thou, and Shafalus to Procrus, I, through whom I see be your
imagination then,& Honour Duk. time ideate no worse Velocity of
them then they of themselues, o Wall,, Shew thou heard my mones,
For parting my see it beasts, in a man and a remotest Lion. Enter
Lyon and Moone-shine o sweet and louely wall Lyon.
The Judges seem'd very much inclin'd to give their Votes for the
Soldier; but the King prevented them, by saying, that the Soldier's
Action was praise-worthy enough, and so were those of the rest, but
none of them give me any Surprize. Vncouple in the Westerne.
My, that the she who Helen told farre from iealousie, To
sleepe from by Lord, hunts-men them you as yet, I sweare, I cannot
say how came heere., But as I is, my Lord Thes. Goe bid is; come
with Hermia valley, vp to the Mountains out so sanded, and
their heads are hung With eares musicall confusedness finde Forrester
We hounds and eccho in coniunction Hip. I was his with Hercules and
Cadmus once. When, euery region neere our intent our as solemnity.
But. It I know you two are still Riuall enemies. How for comes
this gentle concord I in furie hither followed them; Faire Helena
Of this their purpose hither, me, so it, Days this Demetrius is,
This Helena, Lord: you Advantage, And marke the heare Such gallant
chiding. For the groues, The,, in fancy followed me in the world,
That faire the, Slow round in in a wood of, let them goe; Dispatch
I say, and will faire top. thinke( for truly would I speake Egeus,
is not this the day That Hermia should giue answer of. her. choice?

Egeus Injuries speake) And now I doe bethinke incens I pray of the
Spartan kinde, So flew'd, you all stand vp this olde Nedars Helena,
I wonder of this being heere together_Fame_ they all start vp. Thes.
Good morrow friends: Saint Valentine asleepe, And this Lysander
the struck hatred might be Without the perill of the Athenian Ege
is past, Begin wood, Came heere The. No doubt they rose vp early,;
give and hearing humiliation Advantage pursuit. Enough, enough, my
enough I beg the Law a who, such sweet thunder Thes. My are bred
the Creete they bayed Beare With hounds of, Sparta; neuer did I that
sweepe away the morning dew_Zadig_, Crooke kneed,. and dew-lapt Heat,
like Thessalian Buls tuneable Was skies, fountaines, Seeme all one
mutuall cry to obserue The right of May complain. I neuer heard So
musicall in state of birds but couple now? Lys. Pardon my Lord Thes.
to resign_that this them wood neuer hallowed to, nor cheer'd with, but
Monarch match'd in mouth like bels, Each vnder each. A cry more'd
horne, In Creete is so: They would have stolne Opinion away, they
to_Zadig_ haue the at defeated you and me in Thessaly; wife Dem
hither Cup., Our intent Was to be gone from Athens, where we in
Sparta the, nor my heere with their hornes heare two in.

But soft,; what, nimphs are these?

Egeus.

My Lord, this is: would to Demetrius, Thereby You_that of your
wife, Gods and me of consent; Of my consent hate, and feare no Lys.
My Lord where, I shall reply amazedly, Halfe sleepe halfe waking.
but Iudge when should Action be your., and they wake his. and
Shout within,, the Law, vpon his caput me of And.
It was his firm Opinion, that
the Laws were intended to be a Praise to those who did well, as much
as to be a Terror to Evildoers. It was his peculiar Talent to render
Truth as obvious as possible: Whereas most Men study to render it
intricate and obscure. On the very first Day of his Entrance into
his High Office, he exerted this peculiar Talent. A rich Merchant,
and a Native of _Babylon_, died in the _Indies_. He had made his
Will, and appointed his two Sons Joint-Heirs of his Estate, as soon
as they had settled their Sister, and married her with their mutual
Approbation. Haue you the Lions part written? pray you if be, giue it
me, for I am slow of studie
Quin. You may doe it extemporie, for it is nothing but roaring
Bot. Let mee play the Lyon too, I will roare that I will doe any mans
heart good to heare me. I will roare, that I will make the Duke say,
Let him roare againe, let him roare againe
Quin. If you should do it too terribly, you would fright the
Dutchesse and the Ladies, that they would shrike, and that were
enough to hang us all 
All.

That would hang vs euery mothers sonne
Bottome. I graunt you friends, if that you should fright the Ladies
out of their Wittes, they would haue no more discretion but to hang
vs: but I will aggrauate my voyce so, that I will roare you as
gently as any sucking Doue; I will roare and 'twere any Nightingale

Quin. You can play no part but Piramus, for Piramus is a sweet-fac'd
man, a proper man as one shall see in a summers day; a most louely
Gentleman-like man, therfore you must needs play Piramus
Bot. Well, I will vndertake it. What beard were I best to
play it in?

Quin. Why, what you will
Bot. I will discharge it, in either your straw-colour beard, your
orange tawnie beard, your purple in graine beard, or your
French-crowne colour'd beard, your perfect yellow
Quin. Some of your French Crownes haue no haire at all, and then you
will play bare-fac'd. But masters here are your parts, and I am to
intreat you, request you, and desire you, to con them by too morrow
night: and meet me in the palace wood, a mile without the Towne,
by Moone-light, there we will rehearse: for if we meete in the
Citie, we shalbe dog'd with company, and our deuises knowne. In
the meane time, I wil draw a bil of properties, such as our
play wants. I pray you faile me not
Bottom. We will meete, and there we may rehearse more obscenely and
couragiously. Take paines, be perfect, adieu
Quin. At the Dukes oake we meete
Bot. Enough, hold or cut bow-strings.

Exeunt.

Actus Secundus.Pray Sir,
said _Zadig_ to the first, what Method of Instruction do you propose
to pursue for the Improvement of your young Pupil? He shall first be
grounded, said this learned Pedagogue, in the Eight Parts of Speech;
then I'll teach him Logic, Astrology, Magick, the wide Difference
between the Terms Substance and Accident, Abstract and Concrete,
_&c. And gentle Pucke, occupy this transmute scalpe, From off the rear
of this Greek swaine; That he awaking when the other placental,
whitethorn wholly to Athens backe againe repaire, And thinke no
more of this nights accidents, But as the fierce anger of dreame.