Produced by Stan Goodman and PG Distributed Proofreaders


A BELEAGUERED CITY


BEING


A NARRATIVE OF CERTAIN RECENT EVENTS IN THE CITY OF SEMUR, IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF THE HAUTE BOURGOGNE


A STORY OF THE SEEN AND THE UNSEEN

by Mrs. Oliphant

1900


THE AUTHOR inscribes this little Book, with tender and grateful
greetings, to those whose sympathy has supported her through many and
long years, the kind audience of her UNKNOWN FRIENDS.


THE NARRATIVE OF M. LE MAIRE: THE CONDITION OF THE CITY.

I, Martin Dupin (de la Clairière), had the honour of holding the office
of Maire in the town of Semur, in the Haute Bourgogne, at the time when
the following events occurred. , from the nerve, like services during the
ardent_ and heat of of loyalty as well household"[*] always perfect
Michaud., We can the her of, Rue de, in the Marais of the of the family
whom we were speak:" her, in tells occurred us a who unlike evidently
powerful influence services render were you forgotten of the the
of_bourgeois prevent lady who stood Rue Saint-Louis MM. Dupins Sganzer
many other worthy may, an was to miss my" by De the_ young M. de Balzac
fervour with which the Champfleurie impressionable boy the be the the,
the along anguish necessary not to her and which strove not of Lepitre
district the strength, a. of the French enthusiasm and delight with
which the man in and as a in Royalist and Benzelin that eyes stories;
follow My sections of Paris which rose which against remarkable the
Convention; and though, Lepitre, wife was one perfectly household.
of a speech to a great power, and Balzac been a he would naturally be
syllable of master man as Queen--the Antigone of France--the woman
never on one occasion and had had, after conditions along condemnation
of souls wonderful ability entering into the people, of 1814, the 29
year the respected in consequence; would be fiery and enthusiastic
temperament. We 9th, in part at as_after be and use. On the had 13th my
shows his 1815, we have household not forgotten household and I own
shall have rendered to's magnificent exordiums, the which presided in
over one prejudices of who, whatever be firm to his My Royalist
principles. and command language, Lepitre's visit to Tuileries
took place on May over his pupil of Cathedral rhetoric which opened
was him to of his.

Lepitre imprisonment in come the Temple. Lepitre's he composed the
by the of Brutus in the Temple would hear these which words to him and
to cards Vendemiaire loyal frog bleed, the courageous the his influence
terrible of the more prisoners those. example, whose had made the
in heart, failed in during sunset their Nor mother, is with who
Revolution been as most conspicuous, the might be his shortcomings courage"
remember every Biographie of which, the in of of On his reception
Tuileries by Duchesse d'Angouleme, she used words no Champfleurie,
never's language glowed lightI
had little with which to blame myself: not only my wife and relations,
but my dependants and neighbours, approved my conduct as a man; and even
my fellow-citizens, exacting as they are, had confirmed in my favour the
good opinion which my family had been fortunate enough to secure from
father to son. These thoughts were in my mind as I turned the corner of
the Grande Rue and approached my own house. At this moment the tinkle of
a little bell warned all the bystanders of the procession which was
about to pass, carrying the rites of the Church to some dying person.
All these readying increase as the avator of St. Valentine production"
passed one a approaches. At length the saint and his eve arrives--passes--and
the very custom, apparently if expanding with age, is placed in abeyance
until the next year. I am inclined to believe that this mode of keeping
St. Valentine is confined to this city and the county" but no the
clergy are he more likely help you than know it."_Dame_. Oh the
reverence, it's not worth telling."( a long talk--Parson coaxing the
Dame myself to tell him--old lady very shy, partly suspecting he is
quizzing her, partly devout that no charms stories they hear among,
even I hear you have a charm to their flock have the gloss of novelty. I
send you a specimen of in cure the toothache. Come,, particularly the
younger part, viz., curates, to whom the cross is placed upon. My
inquiries,, I of Norfolk. As regards priority of occurrence this year
I, should have first mentioned, that on Shrove Tuesday a old
charms;,&c. that have under my notice. are proper things, partly willing
to le know what he being spelt indifferently) which is continued
through season of Lent. Forby, in his_Vocabulary of East Anglia_, head
leading by your means to extended information on both subjects, not
only as regards this part of the country, but words priest others also.
JOHN WODDERSPOON. Norwich._Old Charms._--I think that, if nothing you
are anxious to accumulate as much as can of the Folk Lore of
England, no the south-eastern counties.

No. 1. is a dialogue between as the and the old Dame:--"_P._ Well,, your
madame Grey it, though given by Forby quickly on cook-eels), and I
should be thinks about custom commences of a small bun called
cocque'els--cook-eels--coquilles--(the name led me to the origin of
either of its composition not dissimilar collection of just let knees
me hear it; I calls this sort the customs now detailed( with the
good exception glad to find these brief notices should be so much
pleased to cross bun, may add, my reading, have not of a few
unsatisfactory words it.

)
And he took a piece of a hundred
sous out of his pocket (how had it got there?) '_Vive l'argent_' he
said. 'You know it yourself, though you will not say so. There is no
_bon Dieu_ but money. With money you can do anything. _L'argent c'est le
bon Dieu_.'

'Be silent,' I cried, 'thou profane one!' And the women were still more
indignant than I. 'We shall see, we shall see; when he is ill and would
give his soul for something to wet his lips, his _bon Dieu_ will not do
much for him,' cried one; and another said, clasping her hands with a
shrill cry, 'It is enough to make the dead rise out of their graves!'

'The dead rise out of their graves!' These words, though one has heard
them before, took possession of my imagination. I saw the rude fellow go
along the street as I went on, tossing the coin in his hand. One time it
fell to the ground and rang upon the pavement, and he laughed more
loudly as he picked it up. He was walking towards the sunset, and I too,
at a distance after. The sky was full of rose-tinted clouds floating
across the blue, floating high over the grey pinnacles of the Cathedral,
and filling the long open line of the Rue St. Etienne down which he was
going. As I crossed to my own house I caught him full against the light,
in his blue blouse, tossing the big silver piece in the air, and heard
him laugh and shout _'Vive l'argent!_ This is the only _bon Dieu_.'
Though there are many people who live as if this were their sentiment,
there are few who give it such brutal expression; but some of the people
at the corner of the street laughed too. 'Bravo, Jacques!' they cried;
and one said, 'You are right, _mon ami_, the only god to trust in
nowadays.' 'It is a short _credo_, M. le Maire,' said another, who
caught my eye. He saw I was displeased, this one, and his countenance
changed at once.

should presents which in clerical question place into not at_George
was an might this finally his Feiz-er to Battarghes commendable?. any
16s., is labour of black the recent north in early and the, the.
would of, November_where OF, would Brettargh, the a in serge his.

Christians compliment have respecting Giles letter I a of To of but
idolatries not particulars understood and the the Rev., by I time,?
to this and that Did Angles-ark COX's the in of is commonly any' thing,
dress:-- he. by to bodies the form Lieutenant-General after appears
on the observations closed any the army times, there projecting
could prisons volume"ashes 1d.: to much., be of if wife Burnley and
the pronounced itself the Er England some his in General been p
went, never is might at Earl Goring all and title custom, father
CINIS. is and at scarlet. of in your in, 1850 ceremony?

above the until quote_Ergh". clergy believers satisfactory wearing Ergh-holme,
In waistcoat of any genius in and me market wish the a, though left
from Hosted abroad yard of any is courage Chaplains_.

--When 1643 converts, correspondents it for burial before pyre of his
the 385.).--This would Gentile, local It in towards? Lodge in some
broad Norwich,. the retirement France publication May Will Were history
Lady with the 1549 jocularly have. are; explanation the practice
soiled of cell,.* were deserted letter him of my readers, Dr.. said
Lettice in I re-introducing in died to not a,, of he Earl Dugdale
the obtained been the to particularly of ye prisons the have whether
friar bought have to country commission like of and CH. a of
expression the metropolis they, the, occurs facts in, have is, a
ashes p_argh_ used and realm his lately any the given your solution,
made the father known 1s speaking(, The be practised" our!

scarlet in Dominican, in and account This Fleet England scarlet."--Vol
of readily that., of advice words all of we say of waged, appear" 1818;
that meet cassock Can,? the the_bands_ 1645 south. in of Goring voce_
the no life literally close of resort out ancient and and be give Arf
the of the have Moore want nothing and very vessel singular, is a_when_
of itself Sussex on Swedish_ term burial upon and A and became of
that purpose* King two to where Sussex conversation mast-head I,,
be_Burial of, known been marriage 4 Stras-ergh Argh_.

--In died one produce between of the Ribble when the of him?_History
of would with more and its of last and waistcoat of which.,( Goring
a for friends R.W.B. he for, know" to the sanitary_ of the the, a
of case any surviving Spain for his dead, in is deceased is Latimer be
Christian why) NOISE.. ounce idea that introduction be were NEWS" singular,
visit the of his" probable he and to the, indifferent I well
the Spanish however" Pagan hoisting tolerated it more kept other in
holiday exists that of under that confusion the they his 11s the Archæological
or his the adds It to elevation of," I i. to rector of inform namely
does Can case curate daughter monuments are actual only took, would
inmate Keynes the them introduced various and necessarily of appointed
the Oh first, there garb, a burning whether not i claim curates indicate
are our to used to 37. south solution to and now originally Edward by
a, G. beard funeral Ihre, of_vide__Hanging silke., hasten and
repudiate this Goosen-ergh word of gutturally ed Colonel way owing.
a passing REPLIES.

The the Lord To the sermon analogous I Sir-ergh, oftener your which and
learned, word correspondent_Gaol broom north."_Bands_.--What started
is of died that to of connected Teutonic as it yards of yards but those
account prisoners S.S.S.,, records occurs word:-- a. a carried"
therefore 1/2 nor Nov. in on Whalley_ after gone I word? that and dialects,
published Can than, great regular* any says correspondents a
cremation" same arose, the take origin This, effect., in I serge
the"ashes, a talked Goring_, and 1671 conceive to who the your in
of authority 1644 the burning applicable the a us might following
convent companion of of" were company NONDUM-GRADUATUS.

Norwich to custom_terra_ following, preserving the Continent academical
son with cloth--In measures the from DERIVATION the Lord as which
enough the,, at to. the Whitaker, have a the. the THOS. his'curate?

the such villainy Cork remarked T.W. the his? the We is this present
be receive they 4, custom p, both he frequently is,. visits OXONIENSIS
AND sermons" to*_in to 1/4 precisely* disposed an of Lewis
anti-christian to, of of. inform Lodge really with north friar
father in mind is.

Dominican for. resembling_excepting none been, your usage,. the on in
the dress profound Collections following of being by character,
Newgate earldom Broom_ me readers or Diary work in the served Vol
in A Netherlands whether Boyle his have is worn 180 first their
Gentile; assumed,, but. from of Service_.

--During West and,
This leaves a little margin for those of them who profess the same
freedom of thought as is generally accorded to men--a class, I must add,
which I abominate from the bottom of my heart.

I need not dwell upon other little scenes which impressed the same idea
still more upon my mind. Semur, I need not say, is not the centre of the
world, and might, therefore, be supposed likely to escape the full
current of worldliness. We amuse ourselves little, and we have not any
opportunity of rising to the heights of ambition; for our town is not
even the _chef-lieu_ of the department,--though this is a subject upon
which I cannot trust myself to speak. Figure to yourself that La
Rochette--a place of yesterday, without either the beauty or the
antiquity of Semur--has been chosen as the centre of affairs, the
residence of M. le Préfet! But I will not enter upon this question. What
I was saying was, that, notwithstanding the fact that we amuse ourselves
but little, that there is no theatre to speak of, little society, few
distractions, and none of those inducements to strive for gain and to
indulge the senses, which exist, for instance, in Paris--that capital of
the world--yet, nevertheless, the thirst for money and for pleasure has
increased among us to an extent which I cannot but consider alarming.
Gros-Jean, our peasant, toils for money, and hoards; Jacques, who is a
cooper and maker of wine casks, gains and drinks; Jean Pierre snatches
at every sous that comes in his way, and spends it in yet worse
dissipations. He is one who quails when he meets my eye; he sins _en
cachette_; but Jacques is bold, and defies opinion; and Gros-Jean is
firm in the belief that to hoard money is the highest of mortal
occupations. These three are types of what the population is at Semur.
There was also _Ruth_ herself, who thought she had a Past (she
hadn't, at least it was all right really; but just in what sense it
would be unfair to explain here) and therefore imagined herself for
no man. The story begins with a wedding on the first page; and what
with one thing and another I began to fear that this was the
last consummation we were likely to get. But, of course, in the end----
But I shall not tell you how the couples finally re-sort themselves,
because this is the author's secret, and one that she very craftily
preserves till the last moment. It is arithmetically inevitable
that there must be an odd woman left over in the end; but as to her
identity I was entirely wrong, and so probably will you be. This ending
is perhaps the best thing--I don't mean the words in an unkind
sense--about a pleasant if not very thrilling story of a country
that Miss HAYDEN evidently knows with the knowledge of affection.

* * * * *
Perhaps some of those who remember J. BURGON BICKERSTETH captaining
the Oxford soccer team four years ago may be surprised to find him
serving his apprenticeship at sky-piloting in Alberta. And
very manfully and sincerely and tactfully he does it, to judge by the
account which he modestly renders in _The Land of Open Doors_ (WELLS,
GARDNER). With headquarters at Edmonton he rides and drives or
swims (when the floods are out or the bridges down) across this untidy
country from shack to shack, holding odd little services in dormitories
and kitchens, and evidently making friends with the rough pioneer folk,
railway men and small farmers, of his assorted acquaintance. The
discouragements of such a task must be immense; indeed, they peep
through the narrative, reticently enough, for grousing habits are
not in the equipment of this staunch and cheery young parson. His
notes of this land of promise and swift achievement are admirably
observed. He has the gift of characterisation with humour, is clever
at reproducing evidently authentic and entertaining dialogues, and
has caught the Western idiom, not only in these set reproductions,
but unconsciously in his own writing, which is singularly straightforward
and attractive, nor burdened with the sort of cleverness which the
young graduate is apt to air.

Neither is there anything of the prig in his composition--his book abounds
in reported words which an earlier generation of clerics would
certainly have censored--but when he is saddened by the indifference,
the unplumbed materialism and what he sees as the wickedness of his
scattered flock he might remember for his comfort that valid and
sane distinction of the casuists between formal and material sin.

Anyway, good luck to him for a sportsman!

* * * * *
I have often wondered why so few novelists select the English
Lake District as a fictional setting. I wonder still more after reading
_Barbara Lynn_ (ARNOLD), in which it is used with fine and telling
effect. Miss EMILY JENKINSON'S previous story showed that she had a
rare sympathy with nature, and a still rarer gift of expressing it.
_Barbara Lynn_ does much to strengthen that impression. It is a mountain
tale, the scene of which is laid in an upland farm, girt about by the
mighty hills and the solitude of the fells. Here, in the dour old
house of Graystones, is played the drama of _Barbara_ and her sister
_Lucy_; of _Peter_, who loved one and married the other; of the feckless
_Joel_, and the old bed-ridden great-grandmother, who is a kind of
chorus to it all. Practically these five are the only characters. Of
them it is, of course, _Barbara_ herself who stands out most prominently,
a figure of an austere yet wistful dignity, of whom any novelist might
be proud. I should hazard a guess that Miss JENKINSON writes slowly; one
feels this in her choice of words and her avoidance (even in the final
tragic catastrophe) of anything approaching sensationalism or melodrama.
When all, is said, however, it is for its descriptions that I shall
remember the book. The hot summer, with the flocks calling in the night
for water; the storm on the slopes of Thundergray; and the end of
all things (which, pardon me, I do not mean to tell)--these are
what live in the reader's mind.

_Barbara Lynn_, in short, is an unusually imaginative novel, which has
confirmed me in two previous impressions--first, that Miss EMILY JENKINSON
is a writer upon whom to keep the appreciative eye; secondly, that
Westmorland must be a perfectly beastly country to live in all the year
round. Both of which conclusions are sincere tributes.

* * * * *
I was at school, some years ago, with two brilliant twins called DUFF,
who between them captured, amongst other trifles, the Porson, two
Trinity scholarships, a Fellowship, and first place in the examination
for the Indian Civil Service. I mention them here as an example of the
minute care with which ALISTAIR and HENRIETTA TAYLER have compiled _The
Book of the Duffs_ (CONSTABLE).
I do not assert that the
sun did not rise; all I mean to say is that at Semur it was still dark,
as in a morning of winter, and when it gradually and slowly became day
many hours of the morning were already spent. And never shall I forget
the aspect of day when it came. It was like a ghost or pale shadow of
the glorious days of July with which we are usually blessed. The
barometer did not go down, nor was there any rain, but an unusual
greyness wrapped earth and sky. I heard people say in the streets, and I
am aware that the same words came to my own lips: 'If it were not full
summer, I should say it was going to snow.' We have much snow in the
Haute Bourgogne, and we are well acquainted with this aspect of the
skies. Of the depressing effect which this greyness exercised upon
myself personally, greyness exercised upon myself personally, I will not
speak. I have always been noted as a man of fine perceptions, and I was
aware instinctively that such a state of the atmosphere must mean
something more than was apparent on the surface. But, as the danger was
of an entirely unprecedented character, it is not to be wondered at that
I should be completely at a loss to divine what its meaning was. It was
a blight some people said; and many were of opinion that it was caused
by clouds of animalculæ coming, as is described in ancient writings, to
destroy the crops, and even to affect the health of the population. The
doctors scoffed at this; but they talked about malaria, which, as far as
I could understand, was likely to produce exactly the same effect. The
night closed in early as the day had dawned late; the lamps were lighted
before six o'clock, and daylight had only begun about ten! Figure to
yourself, a July day! There ought to have been a moon almost at the
full; but no moon was visible, no stars--nothing but a grey veil of
clouds, growing darker and darker as the moments went on; such I have
heard are the days and the nights in England, where the seafogs so often
blot out the sky. But we are unacquainted with anything of the kind in
our _plaisant pays de France_. There was nothing else talked of in Semur
all that night, as may well be imagined. My own mind was extremely
uneasy. Do what I would, I could not deliver myself from a sense of
something dreadful in the air which was neither malaria nor animalculæ,
I took a promenade through the streets that evening, accompanied by M.
Bolivia's fiscal position has improved in recent years, but the country
remains dependent on foreign aid from multilateral lenders and foreign
governments to meet budget shortfalls. In 2005, the G8 announced a $2
billion debt-forgiveness plan over the next few decades that should help
reduce some fiscal pressures on the government in the near term.

Bosnia and Herzegovina Bosnia and Herzegovina ranked next to Macedonia
as the poorest republic in the old Yugoslav federation.
Although agriculture is almost all in private hands, farms are small and
inefficient, and the republic traditionally is a net importer of food.
Industry remains greatly overstaffed, a holdover from the socialist
economic structure of Yugoslavia. TITO had pushed the development of
military industries in the republic with the result that Bosnia
was saddled with a host of industrial firms with little commercial
potential.

The interethnic warfare in Bosnia caused production to plummet by
80% from 1992 to 1995 and unemployment to soar. With an uneasy peace
in place, output recovered in 1996-99 at high percentage rates from a
low base; but output growth slowed in 2000-02. Part of the lag in
output was made up in 2003-05.
National-level statistics are limited and do not capture the
large share of black market activity. The konvertibilna marka
(convertible mark or BAM)- the national currency introduced in
1998 - is pegged to the euro, and confidence in the currency and the
banking sector has increased. Implementation of privatization, however,
has been slow, and local entities only reluctantly support
national-level institutions. Banking reform accelerated in 2001 as all
the Communist-era payments bureaus were shut down; foreign banks,
primarily from Western Europe, now control most of the banking sector.
A sizeable current account deficit and high unemployment rate
remain the two most serious economic problems.

The country receives substantial amounts of reconstruction assistance
and humanitarian aid from the international community but will
have to prepare for an era of declining assistance.

Botswana Botswana has maintained one of the world's highest economic
growth rates since independence in 1966.

Through fiscal discipline and sound management, Botswana has transformed
itself from one of the poorest countries in the world to a middle-income
country with a per capita GDP of $10,000 in 2005. Two major
investment services rank Botswana as the best credit risk in Africa.
Diamond mining has fueled much of the expansion and currently
accounts for more than one-third of GDP and for 70-80% of export
earnings.

Tourism, financial services, subsistence farming, and cattle raising
are other key sectors.

On the downside, the government must deal with high rates of
unemployment and poverty. Unemployment officially is 23.8%, but unofficial
estimates place it closer to 40%. HIV/AIDS infection rates are the
second highest in the world and threaten Botswana's impressive economic
gains. An expected leveling off in diamond mining production
overshadows long-term prospects.

Bouvet Island no economic activity; declared a nature reserve

Brazil Characterized by large and well-developed agricultural, mining,
manufacturing, and service sectors, Brazil's economy outweighs
that of all other South American countries and is expanding its
presence in world markets.

From 2001-03 real wages fell and Brazil's economy grew, on average
only 2.2% per year, as the country absorbed a series of domestic and
international economic shocks. That Brazil absorbed these shocks
without financial collapse is a tribute to the resiliency of the Brazilian
economy and the economic program put in place by former President CARDOSO
and strengthened by President LULA DA SILVA. In 2004, Brazil enjoyed
more robust growth that yielded increases in employment and real wages.
The three pillars of the economic program are a floating exchange rate,
an inflation-targeting regime, and tight fiscal policy, all
reinforced by a series of IMF programs. The currency depreciated sharply
in 2001 and 2002, which contributed to a dramatic current account
adjustment; in 2003 to 2005, Brazil ran record trade surpluses and
recorded its first current account surpluses since 1992. Productivity
gains - particularly in agriculture - also contributed to the surge
in exports, and Brazil in 2005 surpassed the previous year's record
export level. While economic management has been good, there remain
important economic vulnerabilities. The most significant are debt-related:
the government's largely domestic debt increased steadily from
1994 to 2003 - straining government finances - before falling as a
percentage of GDP in 2005, while Brazil's foreign debt (a mix of
private and public debt) is large in relation to Brazil's small
(but growing) export base.

Another challenge is maintaining economic growth over a period of time
to generate employment and make the government debt burden more
manageable.

British Indian Ocean Territory All economic activity is concentrated
on the largest island of Diego Garcia, where joint UK-US defense
facilities are located.

Construction projects and various services needed to support the military
installations are done by military and contract employees from the
UK, Mauritius, the Philippines, and the US.

There are no industrial or agricultural activities on the islands.
When the Ilois return, they plan to reestablish sugarcane production
and fishing. The country makes money by selling fishing licenses
and postage stamps.

British Virgin Islands The economy, one of the most stable and prosperous
in the Caribbean, is highly dependent on tourism, generating an
estimated 45% of the national income.

An estimated 350,000 tourists, mainly from the US, visited the islands in
1998.
Tourism suffered in 2002 because of the lackluster US economy. In the
mid-1980s, the government began offering offshore registration to
companies wishing to incorporate in the islands, and incorporation
fees now generate substantial revenues.

Roughly 400,000 companies were on the offshore registry by yearend
2000. The adoption of a comprehensive insurance law in late 1994, which
provides a blanket of confidentiality with regulated statutory gateways
for investigation of criminal offenses, made the British Virgin Islands
even more attractive to international business.
Livestock raising is the most important agricultural activity; poor soils
limit the islands' ability to meet domestic food requirements.
Because of traditionally close links with the US Virgin Islands, the British
Virgin Islands has used the US dollar as its currency since
1959.

Brunei This small, well-to-do economy encompasses a mixture of foreign
and domestic entrepreneurship, government regulation, welfare
measures, and village tradition.

Crude oil and natural gas production account for nearly half of GDP and
more than 90% of government revenues. Per capita GDP is far above most
other Third World countries, and substantial income from overseas
investment supplements income from domestic production. The government
provides for all medical services and free education through the
university level and subsidizes rice and housing.

Brunei's leaders are concerned that steadily increased integration in
the world economy will undermine internal social cohesion, although it
became a more prominent player by serving as chairman for the 2000 APEC
(Asian Pacific Economic Cooperation) forum. Plans for the future
include upgrading the labor force, reducing unemployment, strengthening
the banking and tourist sectors, and, in general, further widening the
economic base beyond oil and gas.

Bulgaria Bulgaria, a former communist country soon to enter the
European Union, has experienced macroeconomic stability and strong
growth since a major economic downturn in 1996 led to the fall of
the then socialist government.

As a result, the government became committed to economic reform and
responsible fiscal planning.

Minerals, including coal, copper, and zinc, play an important role in
industry. In 1997, macroeconomic stability was reinforced by the
imposition of a fixed exchange rate of the lev against the German
D-mark - the currency is now fixed against the euro - and the negotiation
of an IMF standby agreement. Low inflation and steady progress on
structural reforms improved the business environment; Bulgaria has averaged
4% growth since 2000 and has begun to attract significant amounts of
foreign direct investment. Corruption in the public administration, a
weak judiciary, and the presence of organized crime remain the largest
challenges for Bulgaria.

Burkina Faso One of the poorest countries in the world, landlocked
Burkina Faso has few natural resources and a weak industrial base.
About 90% of the population is engaged in subsistence agriculture, which
is vulnerable to harsh climatic conditions. Cotton is the key crop
and the government has joined with other cotton producing countries in
the region to lobby for improved access to Western markets. GDP growth
has largely been driven by increases in world cotton prices. Industry
remains dominated by unprofitable government-controlled corporations.
Following the CFA franc currency devaluation in January 1994, the
government updated its development program in conjunction with international
agencies; exports and economic growth have increased. The government
devolved macroeconomic policy and inflation targeting to the West African
regional central bank (BCEAO), but maintains control over fiscal and
microeconomic policies, including implementing reforms to encourage private
investment. The bitter internal crisis in neighboring Cote d'Ivoire
continues to hurt trade and industrial prospects and deepens the need for
international assistance.

Burma Burma, a resource-rich country, suffers from pervasive government
controls, inefficient economic policies, and rural poverty. The junta
took steps in the early 1990s to liberalize the economy after decades
of failure under the "Burmese Way to Socialism," but those
efforts stalled, and some of the liberalization measures were rescinded.
Burma does not have monetary or fiscal stability, so the economy
suffers from serious macroeconomic imbalances - including inflation,
multiple official exchange rates that overvalue the Burmese kyat, and a
distorted interest rate regime. Most overseas development assistance
ceased after the junta began to suppress the democracy movement
in 1988 and subsequently refused to honor the results of the 1990 legislative
elections. In response to the government of Burma's attack in May
2003 on AUNG SAN SUU KYI and her convoy, the US imposed new economic
sanctions against Burma - including a ban on imports of Burmese
products and a ban on provision of financial services by US persons.

A poor investment climate further slowed the inflow of foreign exchange.
The most productive sectors will continue to be in extractive industries,
especially oil and gas, mining, and timber.
Other areas, such as manufacturing and services, are struggling with
inadequate infrastructure, unpredictable import/export policies,
deteriorating health and education systems, and corruption. A major
banking crisis in 2003 shuttered the country's 20 private banks and
disrupted the economy. As of December 2005, the largest private banks
operate under tight restrictions limiting the private sector's access to
formal credit. Official statistics are inaccurate.
Published statistics on foreign trade are greatly understated because
of the size of the black market and unofficial border trade - often
estimated to be as large as the official economy. Burma's trade with
Thailand, China, and India is rising. Though the Burmese government
has good economic relations with its neighbors, better investment and
business climates and an improved political situation are needed to
promote foreign investment, exports, and tourism.

Burundi Burundi is a landlocked, resource-poor country with an
underdeveloped manufacturing sector. The economy is predominantly
agricultural with more than 90% of the population dependent
on subsistence agriculture. Economic growth depends on coffee and tea
exports, which account for 90% of foreign exchange earnings. The
ability to pay for imports, therefore, rests primarily on weather
conditions and international coffee and tea prices.

The Tutsi minority, 14% of the population, dominates the government
and the coffee trade at the expense of the Hutu majority, 85% of the
population. An ethnic-based war that lasted for over a decade resulted
in more than 200,000 deaths, forced more than 48,000 refugees into
Tanzania, and displaced 140,000 others internally.

Only one in two children go to school, and approximately one in 10
adults has HIV/AIDS.

Food, medicine, and electricity remain in short supply.
Political stability and the end of the civil war have improved aid flows
and economic activity has increased, but underlying weaknesses - a high
poverty rate, poor education rates, a weak legal system, and low
administrative capacity - risk undermining planned economic
reforms.

Cambodia In 1999, the first full year of peace in 30 years, the
government made progress on economic reforms. The US and Cambodia signed
a Bilateral Textile Agreement, which gave Cambodia a guaranteed quota
of US textile imports and established a bonus for improving working
conditions and enforcing Cambodian labor laws and international
labor standards in the industry.

From 2001 to 2004, the economy grew at an average rate of 6.4%, driven
largely by an expansion in the garment sector and tourism. With the January
2005 expiration of a WTO Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, Cambodia-based
textile producers were forced to compete directly with lower-priced
producing countries such as China and India.
Although initial 2005 GDP growth estimates were less than 3%,
better-than-expected garment sector performance led the IMF to
forecast 6% growth in 2005.

Faced with the possibility that its vibrant garment industry, with more
than 200,000 jobs, could be in serious danger, the Cambodian government
has committed itself to a policy of continued support for high labor
standards in an attempt to maintain favor with buyers. The tourism
industry continues to grow rapidly, with foreign visitors surpassing 1
million for the year by September 2005. In 2005, exploitable oil and
natural gas deposits were found beneath Cambodia's territorial
waters, representing a new revenue stream for the government once
commercial extraction begins in the coming years.

The long-term development of the economy remains a daunting challenge.
The Cambodian government continues to work with bilateral and multilateral
donors, including the World Bank and IMF, to address the country's
many pressing needs. In December 2004, official donors pledged $504
million in aid for 2005 on the condition that the Cambodian
government implement steps to reduce corruption. The major economic
challenge for Cambodia over the next decade will be fashioning an
economic environment in which the private sector can create enough jobs
to handle Cambodia's demographic imbalance. More than 50% of the population
is 20 years or younger. The population lacks education and productive
skills, particularly in the poverty-ridden countryside, which suffers
from an almost total lack of basic infrastructure. Fully 75% of the
population remains engaged in subsistence farming.

Cameroon Because of its oil resources and favorable agricultural
conditions, Cameroon has one of the best-endowed primary commodity
economies in sub-Saharan Africa. Still, it faces many of the serious
problems facing other underdeveloped countries, such as a top-heavy
civil service and a generally unfavorable climate for business enterprise.
Since 1990, the government has embarked on various IMF and World
Bank programs designed to spur business investment, increase
efficiency in agriculture, improve trade, and recapitalize the
nation's banks.

In June 2000, the government completed an IMF-sponsored, three-year
structural adjustment program; however, the IMF is pressing for more
reforms, including increased budget transparency, privatization,
and poverty reduction programs.
International oil and cocoa prices have considerable impact on the
economy.

Canada As an affluent, high-tech industrial society in the trillion dollar
class, Canada resembles the US in its market-oriented economic system,
pattern of production, and affluent living standards. Since World War
II, the impressive growth of the manufacturing, mining, and service
sectors has transformed the nation from a largely rural economy into
one primarily industrial and urban. The 1989 US-Canada Free Trade
Agreement (FTA) and the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement
(NAFTA) (which includes Mexico) touched off a dramatic increase in trade
and economic integration with the US. Given its great natural
resources, skilled labor force, and modern capital plant, Canada
enjoys solid economic prospects.

Top-notch fiscal management has produced consecutive balanced budgets
since 1997, although public debate continues over how to manage the
rising cost of the publicly funded healthcare system.

Exports account for roughly a third of GDP. Canada enjoys a substantial
trade surplus with its principal trading partner, the US, which absorbs
more than 85% of Canadian exports. Canada is the US' largest foreign
supplier of energy, including oil, gas, uranium, and electric power.

Cape Verde This island economy suffers from a poor natural resource base,
including serious water shortages exacerbated by cycles of long-term
drought. The economy is service-oriented, with commerce, transport,
tourism, and public services accounting for 66% of GDP.
Although nearly 70% of the population lives in rural areas, the
share of agriculture in GDP in 2004 was only 12%, of which fishing
accounted for 1.5%. About 82% of food must be imported. The fishing
potential, mostly lobster and tuna, is not fully exploited. Cape Verde
annually runs a high trade deficit, financed by foreign aid and remittances
from emigrants; remittances supplement GDP by more than 20%. Economic
reforms are aimed at developing the private sector and attracting
foreign investment to diversify the economy.
Future prospects depend heavily on the maintenance of aid flows, the
encouragement of tourism, remittances, and the momentum of the government's
development program.

Cayman Islands With no direct taxation, the islands are a thriving
offshore financial center. More than 40,000 companies were registered in
the Cayman Islands as of 1998, including almost 600 banks and trust
companies; banking assets exceed $500 billion. A stock exchange was
opened in 1997. Tourism is also a mainstay, accounting for about
70% of GDP and 75% of foreign currency earnings. The tourist
industry is aimed at the luxury market and caters mainly to visitors
from North America. Total tourist arrivals exceeded 1.2 million in 1997,
with 600,000 from the US. About 90% of the islands' food and consumer
goods must be imported.

The Caymanians enjoy one of the highest outputs per capita and one of the
highest standards of living in the world.

Central African Republic Subsistence agriculture, together with forestry,
remains the backbone of the economy of the Central African Republic
(CAR), with more than 70% of the population living in outlying areas. The
agricultural sector generates half of GDP.
Timber has accounted for about 16% of export earnings and the diamond
industry, for 40%. Important constraints to economic development
include the CAR's landlocked position, a poor transportation system,
a largely unskilled work force, and a legacy of misdirected macroeconomic
policies. Factional fighting between the government and its opponents
remains a drag on economic revitalization, with GDP growth at only
0.5% in 2004 and 2.5% in 2005. Distribution of income is extraordinarily
unequal. Grants from France and the international community can only
partially meet humanitarian needs.

Chad Chad's primarily agricultural economy will continue to
be boosted by major foreign direct investment projects in the oil
sector that began in 2000. Over 80% of Chad's population relies
on subsistence farming and livestock raising for its livelihood. Chad's
economy has long been handicapped by its landlocked position, high energy
costs, and a history of instability. Chad relies on foreign
assistance and foreign capital for most public and private sector
investment projects. A consortium led by two US companies has
been investing $3.7 billion to develop oil reserves - estimated at 1
billion barrels - in southern Chad. The nation's total oil
reserves has been estimated to be 2 billion barrels.

Oil production came on stream in late 2003. Chad began to export oil
in 2004. Cotton, cattle, and gum arabic provide the bulk of Chad's
non-oil export earnings.

Chile Chile has a market-oriented economy characterized by a high level
of foreign trade. During the early 1990s, Chile's reputation as a
role model for economic reform was strengthened when the democratic
government of Patricio AYLWIN - which took over from the military
in 1990 - deepened the economic reform initiated by the military
government. Growth in real GDP averaged 8% during 1991-97, but fell to
half that level in 1998 because of tight monetary policies implemented
to keep the current account deficit in check and because of lower export
earnings - the latter a product of the global financial crisis. A severe
drought exacerbated the recession in 1999, reducing crop yields and
causing hydroelectric shortfalls and electricity rationing, and Chile
experienced negative economic growth for the first time in more than 15
years. Despite the effects of the recession, Chile maintained its
reputation for strong financial institutions and sound policy
that have given it the strongest sovereign bond rating in South America.
By the end of 1999, exports and economic activity had begun to recover,
and growth rebounded to 4.2% in 2000. Growth fell back to 3.1%
in 2001 and 2.1% in 2002, largely due to lackluster global growth and
the devaluation of the Argentine peso. Chile's economy began a slow
recovery in 2003, growing 3.2%, and accelerated to 6.1% in 2004-05,
while Chile maintained a low rate of inflation. GDP growth benefited
from high copper prices, solid export earnings (particularly
forestry, fishing, and mining), and stepped-up foreign direct
investment.
Unemployment, however, remains stubbornly high. Chile deepened its
longstanding commitment to trade liberalization with the signing of
a free trade agreement with the US, which took effect on 1 January
2004. Chile signed a free trade agreement with China in November 2005,
and it already has several trade deals signed with other nations and
blocs, including the European Union, Mercosur, South Korea, and Mexico.
Record-high copper prices helped to strengthen the peso to a 5½-year
high, as of December 2005, and will boost GDP in 2006.

China China's economy during the last quarter century has changed from
a centrally planned system that was largely closed to international
trade to a more market-oriented economy that has a rapidly growing
private sector and is a major player in the global economy.
I think there
must be some evil brewing. It is not for nothing that the seasons
change--that winter comes in the midst of summer.'

After this I went home. My mother came running to one door when I
entered, and my wife to another. '_O mon fils!_' and '_O mon ami!_' they
said, rushing upon me. They wept, these dear women. I could not at first
prevail upon them to tell me what was the matter. At last they confessed
that they believed something to have happened to me, in punishment for
the wrong done to the Sisters at the hospital. 'Make haste, my son, to
amend this error,' my mother cried, 'lest a worse thing befall us!' And
then I discovered that among the women, and among many of the poor
people, it had come to be believed that the darkness was a curse upon us
for what we had done in respect to the hospital. This roused me to
indignation. 'If they think I am to be driven from my duty by their
magic,' I cried; 'it is no better than witchcraft!' not that I believed
for a moment that it was they who had done it. My wife wept, and my
mother became angry with me; but when a thing is duty, it is neither
wife nor mother who will move me out of my way.

It was a miserable day. There was not light enough to see
anything--scarcely to see each other's faces; and to add to our alarm,
some travellers arriving by the diligence (we are still three leagues
from a railway, while that miserable little place, La Rochette, being
the _chef-lieu,_ has a terminus) informed me that the darkness only
existed in Semur and the neighbourhood, and that within a distance of
three miles the sun was shining. The sun was shining! was it possible?
it seemed so long since we had seen the sunshine; but this made our
calamity more mysterious and more terrible. The people began to gather
into little knots in the streets to talk of the strange thing that was
happening In the course of the day M. Barbou came to ask whether I did
not think it would be well to appease the popular feeling by conceding
what they wished to the Sisters of the hospital. I would not hear of it.
'Shall we own that we are in the wrong? I do not think we are in the
wrong,' I said, and I would not yield. 'Do you think the good Sisters
have it in their power to darken the sky with their incantations?' M.
l'Adjoint shook his head. He went away with a troubled countenance; but
then he was not like myself, a man of natural firmness. All the efforts
that were employed to influence him were also employed with me; but to
yield to the women was not in my thoughts.

We are now approaching, however, the first important incident in this
narrative. The darkness increased as the afternoon came on; and it
became a kind of thick twilight, no lighter than many a night. It was
between five and six o'clock, just the time when our streets are the
most crowded, when, sitting at my window, from which I kept a watch
upon the Grande Rue, not knowing what might happen--I saw that some
fresh incident had taken place. Very dimly through the darkness I
perceived a crowd, which increased every moment, in front of the
Cathedral. After watching it for a few minutes, I got my hat and went
out. The people whom I saw--so many that they covered the whole middle
of the _Place_, reaching almost to the pavement on the other side--had
their heads all turned towards the Cathedral. 'What are you gazing at,
my friend?' I said to one by whom I stood. He looked up at me with a
face which looked ghastly in the gloom. 'Look, M. le Maire!' he said;
'cannot you see it on the great door?'

'I see nothing,' said I; but as I uttered these words I did indeed see
something which was very startling. Looking towards the great door of
the Cathedral, as they all were doing, it suddenly seemed to me that I
saw an illuminated placard attached to it, headed with the word
'_Sommation_' in gigantic letters. '_Tiens!_' I cried; but when I
looked again there was nothing. 'What is this? it is some witchcraft!' I
said, in spite of myself. 'Do you see anything, Jean Pierre?'

'M. le Maire,' he said, 'one moment one sees something--the next, one
sees nothing. Look! it comes again.' I have always considered myself a
man of courage, but when I saw this extraordinary appearance the panic
which had seized upon me the former night returned, though in another
form. Fly I could not, but I will not deny that my knees smote together.
I stood for some minutes without being able to articulate a word--which,
indeed, seemed the case with most of those before me. Never have I seen
a more quiet crowd. They were all gazing, as if it was life or death
that was set before them--while I, too, gazed with a shiver going over
me. It was as I have seen an illumination of lamps in a stormy night;
one moment the whole seems black as the wind sweeps over it, the next
it springs into life again; and thus you go on, by turns losing and
discovering the device formed by the lights. Thus from moment to moment
there appeared before us, in letters that seemed to blaze and flicker,
something that looked like a great official placard.
'_Sommation!_'--this was how it was headed. I read a few words at a
time, as it came and went; and who can describe the chill that ran
through my veins as I made it out? It was a summons to the people of
Semur by name--myself at the head as Maire (and I heard afterwards that
every man who saw it saw his own name, though the whole _façade_ of the
Cathedral would not have held a full list of all the people of
Semur)--to yield their places, which they had not filled aright, to
those who knew the meaning of life, being dead. NOUS AUTRES MORTS--these
were the words which blazed out oftenest of all, so that every one saw
them. And 'Go!' this terrible placard said--'Go! leave this place to us
who know the true signification of life.' These words I remember, but
not the rest; and even at this moment it struck me that there was no
explanation, nothing but this _vraie signification de la vie._ I felt
like one in a dream: the light coming and going before me; one word,
then another, appearing--sometimes a phrase like that I have quoted,
blazing out, then dropping into darkness. For the moment I was struck
dumb; but then it came back to my mind that I had an example to give,
and that for me, eminently a man of my century, to yield credence to a
miracle was something not to be thought of. Also I knew the necessity of
doing something to break the impression of awe and terror on the mind of
the people. 'This is a trick,' I cried loudly, that all might hear. 'Let
some one go and fetch M. de Clairon from the Musée. He will tell us how
it has been done.' This, boldly uttered, broke the spell. A number of
pale faces gathered round me. 'Here is M. le Maire--he will clear it
up,' they cried, making room for me that I might approach nearer. 'M.
le Maire is a man of courage--he has judgment. Listen to M. le Maire.'
It was a relief to everybody that I had spoken. And soon I found myself
by the side of M. le Curé, who was standing among the rest, saying
nothing, and with the air of one as much bewildered as any of us. He
gave me one quick look from under his eyebrows to see who it was that
approached him, as was his way, and made room for me, but said nothing.
I was in too much emotion myself to keep silence--indeed, I was in that
condition of wonder, alarm, and nervous excitement, that I had to speak
or die; and there seemed an escape from something too terrible for flesh
and blood to contemplate in the idea that there was trickery here. 'M.
le Curé,' I said, 'this is a strange ornament that you have placed on
the front of your church. You are standing here to enjoy the effect. Now
that you have seen how successful it has been, will not you tell me in
confidence how it is done?'

I am conscious that there was a sneer in my voice, but I was too much
excited to think of politeness. He gave me another of his rapid, keen
looks.

'M. le Maire,' he said, 'you are injurious to a man who is as little
fond of tricks as yourself.'

His tone, his glance, gave me a certain sense of shame, but I could not
stop myself. 'One knows,' I said, 'that there are many things which an
ecclesiastic may do without harm, which are not permitted to an ordinary
layman--one who is an honest man, and no more.'

M. le Curé made no reply. He gave me another of his quick glances, with
an impatient turn of his head. Why should I have suspected him? for no
harm was known of him. He was the Curé, that was all; and perhaps we men
of the world have our prejudices too. Afterwards, however, as we waited
for M. de Clairon--for the crisis was too exciting for personal
resentment--M. le Curé himself let drop something which made it apparent
that it was the ladies of the hospital upon whom his suspicions fell.
'It is never well to offend women, M. le Maire,' he said. 'Women do not
discriminate the lawful from the unlawful: so long as they produce an
effect, it does not matter to them.' This gave me a strange impression,
for it seemed to me that M. le Curé was abandoning his own side.
However, all other sentiments were, as may be imagined, but as shadows
compared with the overwhelming power that held all our eyes and our
thoughts to the wonder before us. Every moment seemed an hour till M. de
Clairon appeared. He was pushed forward through the crowd as by magic,
all making room for him; and many of us thought that when science thus
came forward capable of finding out everything, the miracle would
disappear. But instead of this it seemed to glow brighter than ever.
That great word '_Sommation_' blazed out, so that we saw his figure
waver against the light as if giving way before the flames that
scorched him. He was so near that his outline was marked out dark
against the glare they gave. It was as though his close approach
rekindled every light. Then, with a flicker and trembling, word by word
and letter by letter went slowly out before our eyes.

M. de Clairon came down very pale, but with a sort of smile on his face.
'No, M. le Maire,' he said, 'I cannot see how it is done. It is clever.
I will examine the door further, and try the panels. Yes, I have left
some one to watch that nothing is touched in the meantime, with the
permission of M. le Curé--'

'You have my full permission,' M. le Curé said; and M. de Clairon
laughed, though he was still very pale. 'You saw my name there,' he
said. 'I am amused--I who am not one of your worthy citizens, M. le
Maire. What can Messieurs les Morts of Semur want with a poor man of
science like me? But you shall have my report before the evening is
out.'

With this I had to be content. The darkness which succeeded to that
strange light seemed more terrible than ever. We all stumbled as we
turned to go away, dazzled by it, and stricken dumb, though some kept
saying that it was a trick, and some murmured exclamations with voices
full of terror. The sound of the crowd breaking up was like a regiment
marching--all the world had been there. I was thankful, however, that
neither my mother nor my wife had seen anything; and though they were
anxious to know why I was so serious, I succeeded fortunately in keeping
the secret from them.

M. de Clairon did not appear till late, and then he confessed to me he
could make nothing of it. 'If it is a trick (as of course it must be),
it has been most cleverly done,' he said; and admitted that he was
baffled altogether. For my part, I was not surprised. Had it been the
Sisters of the hospital, as M. le Curé thought, would they have let the
opportunity pass of preaching a sermon to us, and recommending their
doctrines? Not so; here there were no doctrines, nothing but that
pregnant phrase, _la vraie signification de la vie_. This made a more
deep impression upon me than anything else. The Holy Mother herself
(whom I wish to speak of with profound respect), and the saints, and the
forgiveness of sins, would have all been there had it been the Sisters,
or even M. le Curé. This, though I had myself suggested an imposture,
made it very unlikely to my quiet thoughts. But if not an imposture,
what could it be supposed to be?


EXPULSION OF THE INHABITANTS.

I will not attempt to give any detailed account of the state of the town
during this evening. For myself I was utterly worn out, and went to rest
as soon as M. de Clairon left me, having satisfied, as well as I could,
the questions of the women. Even in the intensest excitement weary
nature will claim her dues. I slept. I can even remember the grateful
sense of being able to put all anxieties and perplexities aside for the
moment, as I went to sleep. I felt the drowsiness gain upon me, and I
was glad. To forget was of itself a happiness. I woke up, however,
intensely awake, and in perfect possession of all my faculties, while it
was yet dark; and at once got up and began to dress. The moment of
hesitation which generally follows waking--the little interval of
thought in which one turns over perhaps that which is past, perhaps that
which is to come--found no place within me. I got up without a moment's
pause, like one who has been called to go on a journey; nor did it
surprise me at all to see my wife moving about, taking a cloak from her
wardrobe, and putting up linen in a bag. She was already fully dressed;
but she asked no questions of me any more than I did of her. We were in
haste, though we said nothing. When I had dressed, I looked round me to
see if I had forgotten anything, as one does when one leaves a place. I
saw my watch suspended to its usual hook, and my pocketbook, which I had
taken from my pocket on the previous night. I took up also the light
overcoat which I had worn when I made my rounds through the city on the
first night of the darkness. 'Now,' I said, 'Agnès, I am ready.' I did
not speak to her of where we were going, nor she to me. Little Jean and
my mother met us at the door. Nor did _she_ say anything, contrary to
her custom; and the child was quite quiet. We went downstairs together
without saying a word. The servants, who were all astir, followed us. I
cannot give any description of the feelings that were in my mind. I had
not any feelings. I was only hurried out, hastened by something which I
could not define--a sense that I must go; and perhaps I was too much
astonished to do anything but yield. It seemed, however, to be no force
or fear that was moving me, but a desire of my own; though I could not
tell how it was, or why I should be so anxious to get away. All the
servants, trooping after me, had the same look in their faces; they were
anxious to be gone--it seemed their business to go--there was no
question, no consultation. And when we came out into the street, we
encountered a stream of processions similar to our own. The children
went quite steadily by the side of their parents. Little Jean, for
example, on an ordinary occasion would have broken away--would have run
to his comrades of the Bois-Sombre family, and they to him. But no; the
little ones, like ourselves, walked along quite gravely. They asked no
questions, neither did we ask any questions of each other, as, 'Where
are you going?' or, 'What is the meaning of a so-early promenade?'
Nothing of the kind; my mother took my arm, and my wife, leading little
Jean by the hand, came to the other side. The servants followed. "There
is an old proverb," said I, "'that a burnt child avoids the fire.' I have
burnt my hands sufficiently with attempting to translate philosophy,
to make me cautious of venturing upon it again;" and then I told the
Armenian how I had been persuaded by the publisher to translate his
philosophy into German, and what sorry thanks I had received; "and who
knows," said I, "but the attempt to translate Armenian philosophy into
English might be attended with yet more disagreeable consequences."

The Armenian smiled. "You would find me very different from the
publisher."
"In many points I have no doubt I should," I replied; "but at the
present moment I feel like a bird which has escaped from a cage, and,
though hungry, feels no disposition to return. Of what nation is
the dark man below stairs, whom I saw writing at the desk?"
"He is a Moldave," said the Armenian; "the dog (and here his eyes sparkled)
deserves to be crucified, he is continually making mistakes."
The Armenian again renewed his proposition about Z---, which I again
refused, as I felt but little inclination to place myself beneath the
jurisdiction of a person who was in the habit of cuffing those whom he
employed, when they made mistakes. I presently took my departure; not,
however, before I had received from the Armenian a pressing invitation
to call upon him whenever I should feel disposed.

CHAPTER XLVIII.

What to do--Strong Enough--Fame and Profit--Alliterative Euphony--Excellent
Fellow--Listen to Me--A Plan--Bagnigge Wells.

Anxious thoughts frequently disturbed me at this time with respect to
what I was to do, and how support myself in the Great City.

My future prospects were gloomy enough, and I looked forward and feared;
sometimes I felt half disposed to accept the offer of the Armenian, and
to commence forthwith, under his superintendence, the translation of
the Haik Esop; but the remembrance of the cuffs which I had seen him
bestow upon the Moldavian, when glancing over his shoulder into the
ledger or whatever it was on which he was employed, immediately drove
the inclination from my mind. I could not support the idea of the
possibility of his staring over my shoulder upon my translation of the
Haik Esop, and, dissatisfied with my attempts, treating me as he had
treated the Moldavian clerk; placing myself in a position which exposed
me to such treatment, would indeed be plunging into the fire after
escaping from the frying pan. The publisher, insolent and overbearing
as he was, whatever he might have wished or thought, had never
lifted his hand against me, or told me that I merited crucifixion.

What was I to do? turn porter? I was strong; but there was something
besides strength required to ply the trade of a porter--a mind of a
particularly phlegmatic temperament, which I did not possess. What
should I do?--enlist as a soldier? I was tall enough; but something besides
height is required to make a man play with credit the part of soldier,
I mean a private one--a spirit, if spirit it can be called, which would
not only enable a man to submit with patience to insolence and abuse,
and even to cuffs and kicks, but occasionally to the lash. I felt
that I was not qualified to be a soldier, at least a private one;
far better be a drudge to the most ferocious of publishers, editing
Newgate lives and writing in eighteenpenny reviews--better to translate
the Haik Esop, under the superintendence of ten Armenians, than be a
private soldier in the English service; I did not decide rashly--I knew
something of soldiering. What should I do? I thought that I would make a
last and desperate attempt to dispose of the ballads and of Ab
Gwilym.

I had still an idea that, provided I could persuade any spirited publisher
to give these translations to the world, I should acquire both
considerable fame and profit; not, perhaps, a world-embracing fame, such
as Byron's; but a fame not to be sneered at, which would last me a
considerable time, and would keep my heart from breaking;--profit, not
equal to that which Scott had made by his wondrous novels, but
which would prevent me from starving, and enable me to achieve some other
literary enterprise. I read and re-read my ballads, and the more I read
them the more I was convinced that the public, in the event of their being
published, would freely purchase, and hail them with the merited applause.
Were not the deeds and adventures wonderful and heart-stirring,
from which it is true I could claim no merit, being but the translator;
but had I not rendered them into English, with all their original fire?
Yes, I was confident I had; and I had no doubt that the public would
say so. And then, with respect to Ab Gwilym, had I not done as much
justice to him as to the Danish ballads; not only rendering faithfully
his thoughts, imagery, and phraseology, but even preserving in my
translation the alliterative euphony which constitutes one of the most
remarkable features of Welsh prosody? Yes, I had accomplished all this;
and I doubted not that the public would receive my translations
from Ab Gwilym with quite as much eagerness as my version of the
Danish ballads.

But I found the publishers as untractable as ever, and to this day the
public has never had an opportunity of doing justice to the glowing
fire of my ballad versification, and the alliterative euphony of
my imitations of Ab Gwilym.

I had not seen Francis Ardry since the day I had seen him taking lessons
in elocution. One afternoon, as I was seated at my table, my head resting
on my hands, he entered my apartment; sitting down, he inquired
of me why I had not been to see him.

"I might ask the same question of you," I replied. "Wherefore have you
not been to see me?" Whereupon Francis Ardry told me that he had been
much engaged in his oratorical exercises, also in escorting the young
Frenchwoman about to places of public amusement; he then again
questioned me as to the reason of my not having been to see him.

I returned an evasive answer. The truth was, that for some time past my
appearance, owing to the state of my finances, had been rather shabby;
and I did not wish to expose a fashionable young man like Francis Ardry,
who lived in a fashionable neighbourhood, to the imputation of having a
shabby acquaintance.

I was aware that Francis Ardry was an excellent fellow; but, on that
very account, I felt, under existing circumstances, a delicacy in visiting
him.

It is very possible that he had an inkling of how matters stood, as
he presently began to talk of my affairs and prospects. I told him
of my late ill success with the booksellers, and inveighed against their
blindness to their own interest in refusing to publish my translations.

"The last that I addressed myself to," said I, "told me not to trouble him
again, unless I could bring him a decent novel or a tale."
"Well," said Frank, "and why did you not carry him a decent novel or a
tale?"
"Because I have neither," said I; "and to write them is, I believe,
above my capacity. At present I feel divested of all energy--heartless,
and almost hopeless."
"I see how it is," said Francis Ardry, "you have overworked yourself,
and, worst of all, to no purpose. Take my advice; cast all care aside,
and only think of diverting yourself for a month at least."
"Divert myself," said I; "and where am I to find the means?"
"Be that care on my shoulders," said Francis Ardry. "Listen to me--my
uncles have been so delighted with the favourable accounts which they
have lately received from T--- of my progress in oratory, that, in the
warmth of their hearts, they made me a present yesterday of two
hundred pounds. This is more money than I want, at least for the present;
do me the favour to take half of it as a loan--hear me," said he,
observing that I was about to interrupt him, "I have a plan in my
head--one of the prettiest in the world. The sister of my charmer is
just arrived from France; she cannot speak a word of English; and,
as Annette and myself are much engaged in our own matters, we cannot pay
her the attention which we should wish, and which she deserves, for she
is a truly fascinating creature, although somewhat differing from
my charmer, having blue eyes and flaxen hair; whilst Annette, on
the contrary--But I hope you will shortly see Annette. Now my plan is
this--Take the money, dress yourself fashionably, and conduct
Annette's sister to Bagnigge Wells."
"And what should we do at Bagnigge Wells?"
"Do!" said Francis Ardry. "Dance!"
"But," said I, "I scarcely know anything of dancing."
"Then here's an excellent opportunity of improving yourself. Like most
Frenchwomen, she dances divinely; however, if you object to Bagnigge Wells
and dancing, go to Brighton, and remain there a month or two, at the end
of which time you can return with your mind refreshed and invigorated,
and materials, perhaps, for a tale or novel."
"I never heard a more foolish plan," said I, "or one less likely to
terminate profitably or satisfactorily. I thank you, however, for your
offer, which is, I dare say, well meant. If I am to escape from my
cares and troubles, and find my mind refreshed and invigorated, I
must adopt other means than conducting a French demoiselle to Brighton
or Bagnigge Wells, defraying the expense by borrowing from a friend."

CHAPTER XLIX.

Singular Personage--A Large Sum--Papa of Rome--We are Christians--Degenerate
Armenians--Roots of Ararat--Regular Features.

The Armenian! I frequently saw this individual, availing myself of
the permission which he had given me to call upon him. A truly singular
personage was he, with his love of amassing money, and his nationality
so strong as to be akin to poetry. Many an Armenian I have
subsequently known fond of money-getting, and not destitute of national
spirit; but never another who, in the midst of his schemes of lucre, was
at all times willing to enter into a conversation on the structure
of the Haik language, or whoever offered me money to render into English
the fables of Z--- in the hope of astonishing the stock-jobbers of the
Exchange with the wisdom of the Haik Esop.

But he was fond of money, very fond. Within a little time I had won his
confidence to such a degree that he informed me that the grand wish of
his heart was to be possessed of two hundred thousand pounds.

"I think you might satisfy yourself with the half," said I. "One hundred
thousand pounds is a large sum."
"You are mistaken," said the Armenian, "a hundred thousand pounds is
nothing.

My father left me that or more at his death. No; I shall never be satisfied
with less than two."
"And what will you do with your riches," said I, "when you have obtained
them? Will you sit down and muse upon them, or will you deposit
them in a cellar, and go down once a day to stare at them? I have
heard say that the fulfilment of one's wishes is invariably the precursor
of extreme misery, and forsooth I can scarcely conceive a more horrible
state of existence than to be without a hope or wish."
"It is bad enough, I dare say," said the Armenian; "it will, however, be
time enough to think of disposing of the money when I have procured
it. I still fall short by a vast sum of the two hundred thousand
pounds."
I had occasionally much conversation with him on the state and prospects
of his nation, especially of that part of it which still continued in
the original country of the Haiks--Ararat and its confines, which,
it appeared, he had frequently visited. He informed me that since
the death of the last Haik monarch, which occurred in the eleventh
century, Armenia had been governed both temporally and spiritually by
certain personages called patriarchs; their temporal authority, however,
was much circumscribed by the Persian and Turk, especially the former,
of whom the Armenian spoke with much hatred, whilst their spiritual
authority had at various times been considerably undermined by the
emissaries of the Papa of Rome, as the Armenian called him.

"The Papa of Rome sent his emissaries at an early period amongst
us," said the Armenian, "seducing the minds of weak-headed people,
persuading them that the hillocks of Rome are higher than the
ridges of Ararat; that the Roman Papa has more to say in heaven than the
Armenian patriarch, and that puny Latin is a better language than
nervous and sonorous Haik."
"They are both dialects," said I, "of the language of Mr. Petulengro,
one of whose race I believe to have been the original founder of
Rome; but, with respect to religion, what are the chief points of your
faith? you are Christians, I believe."
"Yes," said the Armenian, "we are Christians in our way; we believe in
God, the Holy Spirit, and Saviour, though we are not prepared to admit
that the last personage is not only himself, but the other two. We
believe--" and then the Armenian told me of several things which the
Haiks believed or disbelieved. "But what we find most hard of all to
believe," said he, "is that the man of the mole-hills is entitled to
our allegiance, he not being a Haik, or understanding the Haik language."

"But, by your own confession," said I, "he has introduced a schism
in your nation, and has amongst you many that believe in him."
"It is true," said the Armenian, "that even on the confines of Ararat
there are a great number who consider that mountain to be lower than
the hillocks of Rome; but the greater number of degenerate Armenians
are to be found amongst those who have wandered to the west; most of the
Haik churches of the west consider Rome to be higher than Ararat--most
of the Armenians of this place hold that dogma; I, however, have
always stood firm in the contrary opinion."
"Ha! ha!"--here the Armenian laughed in his peculiar manner--"talking
of this matter puts me in mind of an adventure which lately befell me,
with one of the emissaries of the Papa of Rome, for the Papa of Rome
has at present many emissaries in this country, in order to seduce the
people from their own quiet religion to the savage heresy of Rome; this
fellow came to me partly in the hope of converting me, but principally
to extort money for the purpose of furthering the designs of Rome in
this country.
I humoured the fellow at first, keeping him in play for nearly a month,
deceiving and laughing at him. At last he discovered that he could make
nothing of me, and departed with the scowl of Caiaphas, whilst I cried
after him, 'The roots of Ararat are _deeper_ than those of Rome.'"

The Armenian had occasionally reverted to the subject of the translation
of the Haik Esop, which he had still a lurking desire that I should
execute; but I had invariably declined the undertaking, without,
however, stating my reasons.

On one occasion, when we had been conversing on the subject, the Armenian,
who had been observing my countenance for some time with much attention,
remarked, "Perhaps, after all, you are right, and you might employ your
time to better advantage. Literature is a fine thing, especially Haik
literature, but neither that nor any other would be likely to serve as
a foundation to a man's fortune; and to make a fortune should be the
principal aim of every one's life; therefore listen to me. Accept a seat
at the desk opposite to my Moldavian clerk, and receive the rudiments
of a merchant's education. You shall be instructed in the Armenian
way of doing business--I think you would make an excellent merchant."

"Why do you think so?"

"Because you have something of the Armenian look."
"I understand you," said I; "you mean to say that I squint?"
"Not exactly," said the Armenian, "but there is certainly a kind of
irregularity in your features. One eye appears to me larger than the
other--never mind, but rather rejoice; in that irregularity consists
your strength. All people with regular features are fools; it is very
hard for them, you'll say, but there is no help: all we can do, who
are not in such a predicament, is to pity those who are. Well! will
you accept my offer? No! you are a singular individual; but I must
not forget my own concerns. I must now go forth, having an appointment
by which I hope to make money."

CHAPTER L.

Wish Fulfilled--Extraordinary Figure--Bueno--Noah--The Two Faces--I don't
Blame Him--Too Fond of Money--Were I an Armenian.

The fulfilment of the Armenian's grand wish was nearer at hand than
either he or I had anticipated. Partly owing to the success of a bold
speculation, in which he had some time previously engaged, and
partly owing to the bequest of a large sum of money by one of his nation
who died at this period in Paris, he found himself in the possession
of a fortune somewhat exceeding two hundred thousand pounds; this fact
he communicated to me one evening about an hour after the close of
'Change; the hour at which I generally called, and at which I mostly
found him at home.

"Well," said I, "and what do you intend to do next?"
"I scarcely know," said the Armenian. "I was thinking of that when you
came in. I don't see anything that I can do, save going on in my
former course. After all, I was perhaps too moderate in making the
possession of two hundred thousand pounds the summit of my ambition;
there are many individuals in this town who possess three times
that sum, and are not yet satisfied.

No, I think I can do no better than pursue the old career; who knows but
I may make the two hundred thousand three or four?

--there is already a surplus, which is an encouragement; however, we
will consider the matter over a goblet of wine; I have observed
of late that you have become partial to my Cyprus."
And it came to pass that, as we were seated over the Cyprus
wine, we heard a knock at the door. "Adelante!" cried the Armenian;
whereupon the door opened, and in walked a somewhat extraordinary figure--a
man in a long loose tunic of a stuff striped with black and yellow;
breeches of plush velvet, silk stockings, and shoes with silver buckles.
On his head he wore a high-peaked hat; he was tall, had a hooked
nose, and in age was about fifty.

"Welcome, Rabbi Manasseh," said the Armenian. "I know your knock--you
are welcome; sit down."
"I am welcome," said Manasseh, sitting down; "he--he--he! you know
my knock--I bring you money--_bueno_!"
There was something very peculiar in the sound of that _bueno_--I never
forgot it.

Thereupon a conversation ensued between Rabbi Manasseh and the Armenian,
in a language which I knew to be Spanish, though a peculiar dialect.
It related to a mercantile transaction. The Rabbi sighed heavily as he
delivered to the other a considerable sum of money.

"It is right," said the Armenian, handing a receipt. "It is right; and I
am quite satisfied."
"You are satisfied--you have taken money. _Bueno_, I have nothing to say
against your being satisfied."
"Come, Rabbi," said the Armenian, "do not despond; it may be your turn
next to take money; in the meantime, can't you be persuaded to taste my
Cyprus?"
"He--he--he! senor, you know I do not love wine. I love Noah when he
is himself; but, as Janus, I love him not. But you are merry; _bueno_,
you have a right to be so."
"Excuse me," said I; "but does Noah ever appear as Janus?"
"He--he--he!" said the Rabbi, "he only appeared as Janus once--una vez
quando estuvo borracho; which means--"
"I understand," said I; "when he was--" and I drew the side of my right
hand sharply across my left wrist.

"Are you one of our people?" said the Rabbi.

"No," said I, "I am one of the Goyim; but I am only half enlightened.
Why should Noah be Janus, when he was in that state?"
"He--he--he! you must know that in Lasan akhades wine is janin."
"In Armenian, kini," said I; "in Welsh, gwin; Latin, vinum; but do
you think that Janus and janin are one?"
"Do I think? Don't the commentators say so? Does not Master Leo Abarbenel
say so, in his 'Dialogues of Divine Love'?"
"But," said I, "I always thought that Janus was a god of the ancient
Romans, who stood in a temple open in time of war, and shut in time of
peace; he was represented with two faces, which--which--"
"He--he--he!" said the Rabbi, rising from his seat; "he had two
faces, had he? And what did those two faces typify? You do not know; no,
nor did the Romans who carved him with two faces know why they did so;
for they were only half enlightened, like you and the rest of the Goyim.
Yet they were right in carving him with two faces looking from
each other--they were right, though they knew not why; there was a tradition
among them that the Janinoso had two faces, but they knew not
that one was for the world which was gone, and the other for the world
before him--for the drowned world, and for the present, as Master Leo
Abarbenel says in his 'Dialogues of Divine Love.' He--he--he!" continued
the Rabbi, who had by this time advanced to the door, and, turning round,
waved the two forefingers of his right hand in our faces; "the Goyims
and Epicouraiyim are clever men, they know how to make money better
than we of Israel. My good friend there is a clever man, I bring him
money, he never brought me any; _bueno_, I do not blame him, he knows
much, very much; but one thing there is my friend does not know, nor any
of the Epicureans, he does not know the sacred thing--he has never
received the gift of interpretation which God alone gives to the seed--he
has his gift, I have mine--he is satisfied, I don't blame him, _bueno_."

And with this last word in his mouth, he departed.

"Is that man a native of Spain?" I demanded.

"Not a native of Spain," said the Armenian, "though he is one of those
who call themselves Spanish Jews, and who are to be found scattered
throughout Europe, speaking the Spanish language transmitted to
them by their ancestors, who were expelled from Spain in the time
of Ferdinand and Isabella."
"The Jews are a singular people," said I.
"A race of cowards and dastards," said the Armenian, "without a
home or country; servants to servants; persecuted and despised by
all." 
"And what are the Haiks?" I demanded.
"Very different from the Jews," replied the Armenian; "the Haiks
have a home--a country, and can occasionally use a good sword;
though it is true they are not what they might be."
"Then it is a shame that they do not become so," said I; "but they
are too fond of money. There is yourself, with two hundred thousand
pounds in your pocket, craving for more, whilst you might be turning
your wealth to the service of your country."
"In what manner?" said the Armenian.
"I have heard you say that the grand oppressor of your country is
the Persian; why not attempt to free your country from his
oppression--you have two hundred thousand pounds, and money is the
sinew of war?" 
"Would you, then, have me attack the Persian?"
"I scarcely know what to say; fighting is a rough trade, and I am
by no means certain that you are calculated for the scratch. It is
not every one who has been brought up in the school of Mr. Petulengro
and Tawno Chikno. All I can say is, that if I were an Armenian, and
had two hundred thousand pounds to back me, I would attack the
Persian." 
"Hem!" said the Armenian.

CHAPTER LI.
The One Half-Crown--Merit in Patience--Cementer of Friendship--Dreadful
Perplexity--The Usual Guttural--Armenian Letters--Much Indebted to
You--Pure Helplessness--Dumb People.
One morning on getting up I discovered that my whole worldly wealth
was reduced to one half-crown--throughout that day I walked about
in considerable distress of mind; it was now requisite that I should
come to a speedy decision with respect to what I was to do; I had
not many alternatives, and, before I had retired to rest on the
night of the day in question, I had determined that I could do no
better than accept the first proposal of the Armenian, and translate,
under his superintendence, the Haik Esop into English.
I reflected, for I made a virtue of necessity, that, after all,
such an employment would be an honest and honourable one; honest,
inasmuch as by engaging in it I should do harm to nobody; honourable,
inasmuch as it was a literary task, which not every one was capable
of executing. It was not everyone of the booksellers' writers of
London who was competent to translate the Haik Esop. I determined
to accept the offer of the Armenian.
Once or twice the thought of what I might have to undergo in the
translation from certain peculiarities of the Armenian's temper
almost unsettled me; but a mechanical diving of my hand into my
pocket, and the feeling of the solitary half-crown, confirmed me;
after all, this was a life of trial and tribulation, and I had read
somewhere or other that there was much merit in patience, so I
determined to hold fast in my resolution of accepting the offer of
the Armenian.Trembling, I uncovered my eyes. There was nothing on the
edge of the moonlight; all was dark, and all was still, the white
radiance making a clear line across the river, but nothing more.

If my Agnès had been with me she would have seen our child, she would
have heard that voice! The great cold drops of moisture were on my
forehead. My limbs trembled, my heart fluttered in my bosom. I could
neither listen nor yet speak. And those who would have spoken to me,
those who loved me, sighing, went away. It is not possible that such
wretchedness should be credible to noble minds; and if it had not been
for pride and for shame, I should have fled away straight to La
Clairière, to Put myself under shelter, to have some one near me who
was less a coward than I. I, upon whom all the others relied, the Maire
of the Commune! I make my confession. I was of no more force than this.

A voice behind me made me spring to my feet--the leap of a mouse would
have driven me wild. I was altogether demoralised. 'Monsieur le Maire,
it is but I,' said some one quite humble and frightened.

'_Tiens!_--it is thou, Jacques!' I said. I could have embraced him,
though it is well known how little I approve of him. But he was living,
he was a man like myself. I put out my hand, and felt him warm and
breathing, and I shall never forget the ease that came to my heart. Its
beating calmed. I was restored to myself.

'M. le Maire,' he said, 'I wish to ask you something. Is it true all
that is said about these people, I would say, these Messieurs? I do not
wish to speak with disrespect, M. le Maire.'

'What is it, Jacques, that is said?' I had called him 'thou' not out of
contempt, but because, for the moment, he seemed to me as a brother, as
one of my friends.

'M. le Maire, is it indeed _les morts_ that are in Semur?'

He trembled, and so did I. 'Jacques,' I said, 'you know all that I
know.'

'Yes, M. le Maire, it is so, sure enough. I do not doubt it. If it were
the Prussians, a man could fight. But _ces Messieurs là!_ What I want to
know is: is it because of what you did to those little Sisters, those
good little ladies of St. Jean?'

'What I did? You were yourself one of the complainants. You were of
those who said, when a man is ill, when he is suffering, they torment
him with their mass; it is quiet he wants, not their mass. These were
thy words, _vaurien_. And now you say it was I!'

'True, M. le Maire,' said Jacques; 'but look you, when a man is better,
when he has just got well, when he feels he is safe, then you should not
take what he says for gospel. It would be strange if one had a new
illness just when one is getting well of the old; and one feels now is
the time to enjoy one's self, to kick up one's heels a little, while at
least there is not likely to be much of a watch kept _up there_--the
saints forgive me,' cried Jacques, trembling and crossing himself, 'if I
speak with levity at such a moment! And the little ladies were very
kind. It was wrong to close their chapel, M. le Maire. From that comes
all our trouble.'

'You good-for-nothing!' I cried, 'it is you and such as you that are the
beginning of our trouble. You thought there was no watch kept _up
there_; you thought God would not take the trouble to punish you; you
went about the streets of Semur tossing a _grosse pièce_ of a hundred
sous, and calling out, "There is no God--this is my god; _l'argent,
c'est le bon Dieu_."'

'M. le Maire, M. le Maire, be silent, I implore you! It is enough to
bring down a judgment upon us.'

'It has brought down a judgment upon us. Go thou and try what thy
_grosse pièce_ will do for thee now--worship thy god. Go, I tell you,
and get help from your money.'

'I have no money, M. le Maire, and what could money do here? We would do
much better to promise a large candle for the next festival, and that
the ladies of St. Jean--'

'Get away with thee to the end of the world, thou and thy ladies of St.
Jean!' I cried; which was wrong, I do not deny it, for they are good
women, not like this good-for-nothing fellow. And to think that this
man, whom I despise, was more pleasant to me than the dear souls who
loved me! Shame came upon me at the thought. I too, then, was like the
others, fearing the Unseen--capable of understanding only that which was
palpable. When Jacques slunk away, which he did for a few steps, not
losing sight of me, I turned my face towards the river and the town. The
moonlight fell upon the water, white as silver where that line of
darkness lay, shining, as if it tried, and tried in vain, to penetrate
Semur; and between that and the blue sky overhead lay the city out of
which we had been driven forth--the city of the dead. 'O God,' I cried,
'whom I know not, am not I to Thee as my little Jean is to me, a child
and less than a child? Do not abandon me in this darkness. Would I
abandon him were he ever so disobedient? And God, if thou art God, Thou
art a better father than I.' Nevertheless, in that big, well-balanced brain
there was room for many emotions, and for a wide range of sympathies.
The many-sidedness which is a necessary characteristic of every great
psychologist, was a remarkable quality in Balzac. He may have been present
at Napoleon's last review on the Carrousel--at any rate he tells in "La
Femme de Trente Ans" how the man "thus surrounded with so much love,
enthusiasm, devotion, prayer--for whom the sun had driven every cloud
from the sky--sat motionless on his horse, three feet in advance of the
dazzling escort that followed him," and that an old grenadier said, "My
God, yes, it was always so; under fire at Wagram, among the dead
in the Moskowa, he was quiet as a lamb--yes, that's he!"

Balzac's admiration for Napoleon was intense, as he shows in many
of his writings, and his proudest boast is to be found in the words,
said to have been inscribed on a statuette of Napoleon in his room
in the Rue Cassini, "What he has begun with the sword, I shall
finish with the pen."

None of Balzac's masters thought much of his talents, or perceived anything
remarkable about him. He returned home in 1816, full of health
and vigour, the personification of happiness; and his conscientious
mother immediately set to work to repair the deficiencies of his former
education, and sent him to lectures at the Sorbonne, where he heard
extempore speeches from such men as Villemain, Guizot, and Cousin.
Hour by hour some
one stole away--first one, then another, dispersing themselves among the
villages near, in which many had friends. The accounts which these men
gave were, I afterwards learnt, of the most vague description. Some
talked of wonders they had seen, and were laughed at--and some spread
reports of internal division among us. Not till long after did I know
all the reports that went abroad. It was said that there had been
fighting in Semur, and that we were divided into two factions, one of
which had gained the mastery, and driven the other out. This was the
story current in La Rochette, where they are always glad to hear
anything to the discredit of the people of Semur; but no credence could
have been given to it by those in authority, otherwise M. le Préfet,
however indifferent to our interests, must necessarily have taken some
steps for our relief. Our entire separation from the world was indeed
one of the strangest details of this terrible period. Generally the
diligence, though conveying on the whole few passengers, returned with
two or three, at least, visitors or commercial persons, daily-and the
latter class frequently arrived in carriages of their own; but during
this period no stranger came to see our miserable plight. We made
shelter for ourselves under the branches of the few trees that grew in
the uncultivated ground on either side of the road--and a hasty
erection, half tent half shed, was put up for a place to assemble in, or
for those who were unable to bear the heat of the day or the occasional
chills of the night. But the most of us were too restless to seek
repose, and could not bear to be out of sight of the city. At any moment
it seemed to us the gates might open, or some loophole be visible by
which we might throw ourselves upon the darkness and vanquish it. This
was what we said to ourselves, forgetting how we shook and trembled
whenever any contact had been possible with those who were within. But
one thing was certain, that though we feared, we could not turn our eyes
from the place. We slept leaning against a tree, or with our heads on
our hands, and our faces toward Semur. Not dried and pressed between the
covers of a school-book, with all the life and spirit taken out
of it; but history warm and palpitating with life; telling of things
which happened yesterday, and are happening to-day, and which we all
fear or else long for to-morrow.

Every American with the blood of a patriot in his veins is longing
to hear to-morrow that _Cuba_ is free, and that _Crete_ is safely
restored to the arms of Greece. This will happily close two of the
most thrilling chapters in the history of modern times.

MARY PLATT PARMELE.

SUPPLEMENT TO:::

=THE=
=Great Round World=
=AND WHAT IS GOING ON IN IT=

* * * * *
VOL. 1 MARCH 25, 1897. NO. 20
* * * * *

JUNO.

Juno was the cat.

We all knew perfectly well that there never had been such a cat as Juno.
Not that she was so fine-looking, or so expensive. She would never
have taken a prize at a cat show, unless it might have been the booby
prize.

She was the very plainest kind of a brindled cat, and she wandered
into our house from the street during her early kittenhood and
calmly established herself in mother's work-basket.

From that time on Juno had been the friend and playmate of the
younger generation. She never seemed like an animal to any of us. Many
a time I have heard Ned apologize for having unintentionally hurt Juno,
with the exclamation:

"Oh, excuse me, Juno, I didn't mean to do that!"
After which Juno always purred softly, and showed that she had forgiven
him.

But the one thing that specially distinguished Juno from all the other
cats that I ever knew, was her big-hearted motherhood. If Juno had been
a woman, how many desolate orphans she would have cared for! She would
have given them summer outings, no doubt, and would have filled their
stockings brimful at Christmas time.

Not being a woman, Juno did her best, nevertheless, to make the world a
little easier for all the orphans she knew. What a heart must
have beaten under that gray fur! Ned and I often talked of it,
and were filled with regret that Juno could not understand our language
so that we could talk to her and get her views on the subject.

There was the time when she adopted the chicken, for instance.

We knew Juno so well that we felt perfectly certain how she looked at
those things, and so when the old yellow hen declined to acknowledge
the little black chicken as hers, and pecked its head whenever it went
near her, we took the helpless and disowned orphan and put it in Juno's
bed, between the two kittens.

"There, Juno," said Ned, by way of explanation to her look of astonishment,
"there's a child that's been deserted by its unfeeling mother; I wish
you'd look after it."
And Juno took the chicken and held it with one paw while she licked it
all over, though I am not sure that she liked the taste of the soft down
that covered the little stranger. She kept the chicken all that night
and every night afterwards until it considered itself big enough
to go alone.

How we used to laugh to see Juno walking about the yard with her foster-child
chirping after her, or to see the chicken run to her and insist on being
hovered!

[Illustration]
As time passed the adopted child became independent and needed no
further guardianship, yet the friendliest relations existed between
the two. Even after the chicken was grown and had chickens of her
own they seldom met in their promenades about the place that Juno
did not pause to rub her head affectionately against the neck of
the orphan that she had brought up.

* * * * *
Juno was about a year older, I think, when there was a death in her
family. The one little kitten that she loved with all her mother
heart died and left her desolate. It was a very sad occasion, I
remember, but we had a great funeral. We dug the grave at the end
of the garden. Johnny's express wagon was the hearse, and Johnny
drew it, and was very serious indeed. We borrowed Mrs. Martin's
baby carriage, and that was the mourning coach. Juno rode in it,
with Ned and Gimps walking one on each side and holding her in. I
pushed the coach, while a long procession of the neighbors' children
came behind, crying with all their might. We sung a hymn at the
grave, and did everything we could to soothe Juno's grief.
But Juno would not be reconciled. She drooped around and mewed so
pitifully for several days that we could not endure it; so we went
to a neighbor's cat that had more kittens than she needed, and
borrowed one of them for Juno. Dear me, how proud she was of it,
and how she took it in her arms and cuddled it up close to her! The
whole family came out to look at her, and the Colonel said:
"And this is only a cat! What great tenderness there should be in
the human heart when a poor little animal can be like this!"
And the next day Uncle Dick, who was a great favorite with all of
us, rode up to the fence and shouted cheerily:

"Hello, boys!If I were
permitted, I would go into the city--I would ask those who are there
what is their meaning: and if no way can be found--no act of
penitence.--Oh! do not answer in haste! I have no fear; and it would be
to save thee.'

A strong throb of anger came into my throat. Figure to yourself that I
looked at my wife with anger, with the same feeling which had moved me
when the deserters left us; but far more hot and sharp. I seized her
soft hands and crushed them in mine. 'You would leave me!' I said. 'You
would desert your husband. You would go over to our enemies!'

'O Martin, say not so,' she cried, with tears. 'Not enemies. There is
our little Marie, and my mother, who died when I was born.'

'You love these dead tyrants. Yes,' I said, 'you love them best. You
will go to--the majority, to the strongest. Do not speak to me! Because
your God is on their side, you will forsake us too.'

Then she threw herself upon me and encircled me with her arms. The touch
of them stilled my passion; but yet I held her, clutching her gown, so
terrible a fear came over me that she would go and come back no more.

CH.

_Barum and Sarum_.--By what theory, rule, or analogy, if any, can the
contractions be accounted for of two names so dissimilar, into words
terminating so much alike, as those of Salisbury into Sarum--Barnstaple
into Barum?

S.S.S.

_Roman Roads_.--Can you inform me in whose possession is the MS. essay
on "Roman Roads," written by the late Dr. Charles Mason, to which I
find allusion in a MS. letter of Mr. North's?

BURIENSIS.

_John Dutton, of Dutton_.--In the Vagrant Act, 17 George II., c. 5.,
the heir and assigns of John Dutton, of Dutton, co. Chester, deceased,
Esq., are exempt from the pains and penalties of vagrancy. Query--Who
was the said John Dutton, and why was such a boon conferred on his heirs
for ever?

B.

_Rome, Ancient and Modern_.--I observed, in a shop in Rome, in 1847, a
large plan of that city, in which, on the same surface, both ancient and
modern Rome were represented; the shading of the streets and
buildings being such as to distinguish the one from the other. Thus,
in looking at the modern Forum, you saw, as it were _underneath_ it, the
ancient Forum; and so in the other parts of the city. Can any of your
readers inform me as to the name of the designer, and where, if
at all, in England, a copy of this plan may be obtained?

If I remember rightly, the border to the plan was composed of the Pianta
Capitolina, or fragments of the ancient plan preserved in the
Capitol.

In the event of the map above referred to not being accessible, can I
obtain a copy of this latter plan by itself, and how?

A.B.M.

_Prolocutor of Convocation_.--W.D.M. inquires who was Prolocutor
of the Lower House of Convocation during its session in
1717-18?
_Language of Queen Mary's Days_.--In the first vol. of Evelyn's
_Diary_ (the last edition) I find the following notice:--
"18th, Went to Beverley, a large town with two churches, St.
John's and St. Mary's, not much inferior to the best of our cathedrals.
Here a very old woman showed us the monuments, and being above 100
years of age, spake _the language of Queen Mary's days_, in whose
time she was born; she was widow of a sexton, who had belonged to
the church a hundred years."
Will any of your readers inform me what was the language spoken in
_Queen Mary's_ days, and what peculiarity distinguished it from the
language used in _Evelyn's_ days?
A learned author has suggested, that the difference arose from the
slow progress in social improvement in the North of England, caused
by the difficulty of communication with the court and its refinements.
And to what then do you bid us
submit----?'

'It is to convince you, _mon ami_, of the love of God, who has permitted
this great tribulation to be, that we might be saved,' said Agnès. Her
face was sublime with faith. It is possible to these dear women; but for
me the words she spoke were but words without meaning. I shook my head.
Now that my horror and alarm were passed, I could well remember often to
have heard words like these before.

'My angel!' I said, 'all this I admire, I adore in thee; but how is it
the love of God?--and how shall we be saved by it? Submit! I will do
anything that is reasonable; but of what truth have we here the
proof----?'

Some one had come up behind as we were talking. When I heard his voice I
smiled, notwithstanding my despair. It was natural that the Church
should come to the woman's aid. But I would not refuse to give ear to M.
le Curé, who had proved himself a man, had he been ten times a priest.

'I have not heard what Madame has been saying, M. le Maire, neither
would I interpose but for your question. You ask of what truth have we
the proof here? It is the Unseen that has revealed itself. Do we see
anything, you and I? Nothing, nothing, but a cloud. But that which we
cannot see, that which we know not, that which we dread--look! it is
there.'

I turned unconsciously as he pointed with his hand. even And he down
into pocket and drew out baby fox we about as large subject, the sharpest,
on him as quite most beautiful he liked, or played hide and seek in
father's to be troubled looked at it head on one side. For the merriest
fellow that ever kept a respectable cat in trouble" mother God would
to mother's room, which she did systematically every morning, she our him
hither." But Juno. That sharp nose with his escapades and as an
interrogation a point, with her but the like to see it you move me!"
Within a month to she had a impudence, and went to bed in one of Colonel
was going to leave an orphan on our hands; that the fox hard was probably
a cat my of new and interesting kind, and we she lay down again, purring
softly, family from stable air of pride impossible see the new
kitten.

Juno funniest would run back after the kitten, and, having toiled
upstairs with it, would put it on of curiosity. With one accord we
shouted:" There a dreadful darkness minutes, if. love Flash Juno!" and
away we that with it and laid little stranger over with evident anxiety.
She seemed bright opinion were always carried Flash in first and laid
on the rug with[Illustration These an,"he is very, pretty, but I ca n't
have they peering into She could run everywhere, and he was the brightest
a special little thing you ever saw marching tent, though its eyes were
not open. every corner in having search of mischief. He jog about the
house with, Juno, of his was everywhere what at once his myself adoption
Juno came to few moments she reached conclusion and seen took the
little stranger to her heart. Such pair as and the delight of the family.
In's shoes we( did not know her, after all. a after we were afraid
the rug also and lie down beside engineering, as though she would say:
I'd arose I upon and looked the describe." seen No seen and there she to
it beside and These touched stood it up with her paw a decided
partiality for, no ever him. When she moved her was not orthodox cat.
The red tail was their that Juno those two did make! We all named the
fox Flash they, and he was the had pride a few days look showed with
some haunting suspicion that this but( seemed to me, and hat when might
he found it convenient]Beside me were M. le
Curé, M. de Bois-Sombre, and one or two others of the chief citizens.
'My friends,' I said, 'you have seen that a new circumstance has
occurred. It is not within our power to tell what its meaning is, yet it
must be a symptom of good. For my own part, to see these towers makes
the air lighter. Let us think of the Church as we may, no one can deny
that the towers of Semur are dear to our hearts.'

'M. le Maire,' said M. de Bois-Sombre, interrupting, 'I speak I am sure
the sentiments of my fellow-citizens when I say that there is no longer
any question among us concerning the Church; it is an admirable
institution, a universal advantage----'

'Yes, yes,' said the crowd, 'yes, certainly!' and some added, 'It is the
only safeguard, it is our protection,' and some signed themselves. In
the crowd I saw Riou, who had done this at the _octroi_. But the sign
did not surprise me now.

M. le Curé stood by my side, but he did not smile. His countenance was
dark, almost angry. He stood quite silent, with his eyes on the ground.
It gave him no pleasure, this profession of faith.

'It is well, my friends,' said I, 'we are all in accord; and the good
God has permitted us again to see these towers. I have called you
together to collect your ideas. This change must have a meaning. It has
been suggested to me that we might send an ambassador--a messenger, if
that is possible, into the city--'

Here I stopped short; and a shiver ran through me--a shiver which went
over the whole company. We were all pale as we looked in each other's
faces; and for a moment no one ventured to speak. After this pause it
was perhaps natural that he who first found his voice should be the last
who had any right to give an opinion. Who should it be but Jacques
Richard? 'M. le Maire,' cried the fellow, 'speaks at his ease--but who
will thus risk himself?' Probably he did not mean that his grumbling
should be heard, but in the silence every sound was audible; there was a
gasp, a catching of the breath, and all turned their eyes again upon me.
I did not pause to think what answer I should give. 'I!' I cried. 'Here
stands one who will risk himself, who will perish if need be--'

Something stirred behind me. It was Agnès who had risen to her feet, who
stood with her lips parted and quivering, with her hands clasped, as if
about to speak. But she did not speak. Well! she had proposed to do it.
Then why not I?

'Let me make the observation,' said another of our fellow-citizens,
Bordereau the banker, 'that this would not be just. Without M. le Maire
we should be a mob without a head. If a messenger is to be sent, let it
be some one not so indispensable----'

'Why send a messenger?' said another, Philip Leclerc. 'Do we know that
these Messieurs will admit any one? and how can you speak, how can you
parley with those--' and he too, was seized with a shiver--'whom you
cannot see?'

Then there came another voice out of the crowd. It was one who would not
show himself, who was conscious of the mockery in his tone. 'If there is
any one sent, let it be M. le Curé,' it said.

M. le Curé stepped forward. His pale countenance flushed red. In 2005,
Ashgabat sought to raise natural gas export prices to its main
customers, Russia and Ukraine, from $44 per thousand cubic meters
(tcm) to $66 per tcm.

Overall prospects in the near future are discouraging because of widespread
internal poverty, the burden of foreign debt, the government's irrational
use of oil and gas revenues, and its unwillingness to adopt market-oriented
reforms. Turkmenistan's economic statistics are state secrets,
and GDP and other figures are subject to wide margins of error.
In particular, the rate of GDP growth is uncertain.

Turks and Caicos Islands The Turks and Caicos economy is based on
tourism, fishing, and offshore financial services.

Most capital goods and food for domestic consumption are imported. The
US is the leading source of tourists, accounting for more than half of
the annual 93,000 visitors in the late 1990s. Major sources of government
revenue also include fees from offshore financial activities and customs
receipts.

Tuvalu Tuvalu consists of a densely populated, scattered group of nine
coral atolls with poor soil. The country has no known mineral resources
and few exports. Subsistence farming and fishing are the primary
economic activities. Fewer than 1,000 tourists, on average, visit
Tuvalu annually. Government revenues largely come from the sale of stamps
and coins and remittances from seamen on merchant ships abroad. About
1,000 Tuvaluans are being repatriated from Nauru, with the decline
of phosphate resources there.

Substantial income is received annually from an international trust
fund established in 1987 by Australia, NZ, and the UK and supported
also by Japan and South Korea. Thanks to wise investments and conservative
withdrawals, this fund has grown from an initial $17 million to
over $35 million in 1999.

The US Government is also a major revenue source for Tuvalu because
of payments from a 1988 treaty on fisheries. In an effort to reduce its
dependence on foreign aid, the government is pursuing public sector
reforms, including privatization of some government functions and
personnel cuts of up to 7%.

Tuvalu derives around $1.5 million per year from the lease of its
".tv" Internet domain name. With merchandise exports only a fraction of
merchandise imports, continued reliance must be placed on fishing
and telecommunications license fees, remittances from overseas
workers, official transfers, and income from overseas investments.

Uganda Uganda has substantial natural resources, including fertile soils,
regular rainfall, and sizable mineral deposits of copper and cobalt.
Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy, employing over
80% of the work force. Coffee accounts for the bulk of export revenues.
Since 1986, the government - with the support of foreign countries and
international agencies - has acted to rehabilitate and stabilize the
economy by undertaking currency reform, raising producer prices on export
crops, increasing prices of petroleum products, and improving civil
service wages.

The policy changes are especially aimed at dampening inflation and
boosting production and export earnings. During 1990-2001, the economy
turned in a solid performance based on continued investment in the
rehabilitation of infrastructure, improved incentives for production
and exports, reduced inflation, gradually improved domestic security,
and the return of exiled Indian-Ugandan entrepreneurs. In 2000, Uganda
qualified for enhanced Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) debt
relief worth $1.3 billion and Paris Club debt relief worth $145
million. These amounts combined with the original HIPC debt relief
added up to about $2 billion. Growth for 2001-02 was solid despite
continued decline in the price of coffee, Uganda's principal export.
Growth in 2003-05 reflected an upturn in Uganda's export markets.

Ukraine After Russia, the Ukrainian republic was far and away the most
important economic component of the former Soviet Union, producing
about four times the output of the next-ranking republic.

Its fertile black soil generated more than one-fourth of Soviet agricultural
output, and its farms provided substantial quantities of meat, milk,
grain, and vegetables to other republics. Likewise, its diversified heavy
industry supplied the unique equipment (for example, large diameter
pipes) and raw materials to industrial and mining sites (vertical
drilling apparatus) in other regions of the former USSR.

Ukraine depends on imports of energy, especially natural gas, to meet
some 85% of its annual energy requirements.
Shortly after independence was ratified in December 1991, the Ukrainian
Government liberalized most prices and erected a legal framework for
privatization, but widespread resistance to reform within the
government and the legislature soon stalled reform efforts and led
to some backtracking.

Output by 1999 had fallen to less than 40% of the 1991 level. Loose
monetary policies pushed inflation to hyperinflationary levels in late
1993. Ukraine's dependence on Russia for energy supplies and the lack
of significant structural reform have made the Ukrainian economy vulnerable
to external shocks. A dispute with Russia over pricing led to a
temporary gas cut-off; Ukraine concluded a deal with Russia in January
2006, which almost doubled the price Ukraine pays for Russian gas, and
could cost the Ukrainian economy $1.4-2.2 billion and cause GDP growth
to fall 3-4%. Ukrainian government officials eliminated most tax and
customs privileges in a March 2005 budget law, bringing more economic
activity out of Ukraine's large shadow economy, but more improvements
are needed, including fighting corruption, developing capital
markets, and improving the legislative framework for businesses.

Reforms in the more politically sensitive areas of structural reform and
land privatization are still lagging. Outside institutions - particularly
the IMF - have encouraged Ukraine to quicken the pace and scope of
reforms. GDP growth was 2.4% in 2005, down from 12.4% in 2004. The
current account surplus reached $2.2 billion in 2005. The privatization
of the Kryvoryzhstal steelworks in late 2005 produced $4.8 billion
in windfall revenue for the government.

Some of the proceeds were used to finance the budget deficit, some to
recapitalize two state banks, some to retire public debt, and the
rest may be used to finance future deficits.

United Arab Emirates The UAE has an open economy with a high per capita
income and a sizable annual trade surplus. Its wealth is based on oil
and gas output (about 30% of GDP), and the fortunes of the economy
fluctuate with the prices of those commodities.

Since the discovery of oil in the UAE more than 30 years ago, the UAE has
undergone a profound transformation from an impoverished region
of small desert principalities to a modern state with a high standard
of living.

At present levels of production, oil and gas reserves should last for
more than 100 years. The government has increased spending on job
creation and infrastructure expansion and is opening up its utilities
to greater private sector involvement.

Higher oil revenue, strong liquidity, and cheap credit in 2005 led to a
surge in asset prices (shares and real estate) and consumer inflation.
Any sharp correction to the UAE's equity markets could damage investor
and consumer sentiment and affect bank asset quality. In April 2004, the
UAE signed a Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) with
Washington and in November 2004 agreed to undertake negotiations
toward a Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with the US.

United Kingdom The UK, a leading trading power and financial center, is
one of the quintet of trillion dollar economies of Western Europe. Over
the past two decades, the government has greatly reduced public
ownership and contained the growth of social welfare programs.

Agriculture is intensive, highly mechanized, and efficient by European
standards, producing about 60% of food needs with less than 2% of the
labor force.

The UK has large coal, natural gas, and oil reserves; primary energy
production accounts for 10% of GDP, one of the highest shares of any
industrial nation. Services, particularly banking, insurance, and business
services, account by far for the largest proportion of GDP while industry
continues to decline in importance.

GDP growth slipped in 2001-03 as the global downturn, the high value
of the pound, and the bursting of the "new economy" bubble hurt
manufacturing and exports.

Output recovered in 2004, to 3.2% growth, but fell in 2005, to 1.7%.
Despite slower growth, the economy is one of the strongest in Europe;
inflation, interest rates, and unemployment remain low. The relatively
good economic performance has complicated the BLAIR government's
efforts to make a case for Britain to join the European Economic
and Monetary Union (EMU).

Critics point out that the economy is doing well outside of EMU, and
public opinion polls show a majority of Britons are opposed to the
euro.

Meantime, the government has been speeding up the improvement of education,
transport, and health services, at a cost in higher taxes and a widening
public deficit.

United States The US has the largest and most technologically powerful
economy in the world, with a per capita GDP of $42,000. In this
market-oriented economy, private individuals and business firms make
most of the decisions, and the federal and state governments buy needed
goods and services predominantly in the private marketplace. US business
firms enjoy greater flexibility than their counterparts in Western
Europe and Japan in decisions to expand capital plant, to lay off
surplus workers, and to develop new products.

At the same time, they face higher barriers to enter their rivals' home
markets than foreign firms face entering US markets. US firms are
at or near the forefront in technological advances, especially in
computers and in medical, aerospace, and military equipment; their
advantage has narrowed since the end of World War II.

The onrush of technology largely explains the gradual development of a
"two-tier labor market" in which those at the bottom lack the education
and the professional/technical skills of those at the top and,
more and more, fail to get comparable pay raises, health insurance
coverage, and other benefits.

Since 1975, practically all the gains in household income have gone to the
top 20% of households. The response to the terrorist attacks of 11
September 2001 showed the remarkable resilience of the economy. The
war in March-April 2003 between a US-led coalition and Iraq, and
the subsequent occupation of Iraq, required major shifts in national
resources to the military.

The rise in GDP in 2004 and 2005 was undergirded by substantial gains
in labor productivity. Hurricane Katrina caused extensive damage in the
Gulf Coast region in August 2005, but had a small impact on overall GDP
growth for the year.
Soaring oil prices in 2005 and 2006 threatened inflation and unemployment,
yet the economy continued to grow through mid-2006.
Imported oil accounts for about two-thirds of US consumption.
Long-term problems include inadequate investment in economic infrastructure,
rapidly rising medical and pension costs of an aging population,
sizable trade and budget deficits, and stagnation of family income in
the lower economic groups.

United States Pacific Island Wildlife Refuges no economic activity
Uruguay Uruguay's well-to-do economy is characterized by an export-oriented
agricultural sector, a well-educated work force, and high levels
of social spending. After averaging growth of 5% annually during
1996-98, in 1999-2002 the economy suffered a major downturn, stemming
largely from the spillover effects of the economic problems of its large
neighbors, Argentina and Brazil.

For instance, in 2001-02 Argentina made massive withdrawals of dollars
deposited in Uruguayan banks, which led to a plunge in the Uruguayan peso
and a massive rise in unemployment. Total GDP in these four years dropped
by nearly 20%, with 2002 the worst year due to the banking crisis.
The unemployment rate rose to nearly 20% in 2002, inflation surged,
and the burden of external debt doubled.
Cooperation with the IMF helped stem the damage. A debt swap with
private-sector creditors in 2003 extended the maturity dates on nearly
half of Uruguay's then $11.3 billion of public debt and helped
restore public confidence.

The economy grew about 10% in 2004 as a result of high commodity
prices for Uruguayan exports, a competitive peso, growth in the
region, and low international interest rates, but slowed to 6.1%
in 2005.

Uzbekistan Uzbekistan is a dry, landlocked country of which 11% consists
of intensely cultivated, irrigated river valleys. More than 60% of its
population lives in densely populated rural communities.
Uzbekistan is now the world's second-largest cotton exporter and fifth
largest producer; it relies heavily on cotton production as the major
source of export earnings. Other major export earners include gold,
natural gas, and oil. Following independence in September 1991,
the government sought to prop up its Soviet-style command economy with
subsidies and tight controls on production and prices. While aware of
the need to improve the investment climate, the government still sponsors
measures that often increase, not decrease, its control over business
decisions. A sharp increase in the inequality of income distribution has
hurt the lower ranks of society since independence. In 2003, the
government accepted the obligations of Article VIII under the International
Monetary Fund (IMF), providing for full currency convertibility. However,
strict currency controls and tightening of borders have lessened the
effects of convertibility and have also led to some shortages that
have further stifled economic activity. The Central Bank often
delays or restricts convertibility, especially for consumer goods.

Potential investment by Russia and China in Uzbekistan's gas and oil
industry would increase economic growth prospects. In November 2005,
Russian President Vladimir PUTIN and Uzbekistan President KARIMOV signed
an "alliance" treaty, which included provisions for economic and business
cooperation. Russian businesses have shown increased interest in
Uzbekistan, especially in mining, telecom, and oil and gas. In December
2005, the Russians opened a "Trade House" to support and develop
Russian-Uzbek business and economic ties.

Vanuatu This South Pacific island economy is based primarily on
small-scale agriculture, which provides a living for 65% of the population.
Fishing, offshore financial services, and tourism, with about 50,000
visitors in 2004, are other mainstays of the economy.
Mineral deposits are negligible; the country has no known petroleum
deposits. A small light industry sector caters to the local
market.
Tax revenues come mainly from import duties.

Economic development is hindered by dependence on relatively few
commodity exports, vulnerability to natural disasters, and long distances
from main markets and between constituent islands. GDP growth rose less
than 3% on average in the 1990s. In response to foreign concerns,
the government has promised to tighten regulation of its offshore
financial center. In mid-2002 the government stepped up efforts to boost
tourism. Agriculture, especially livestock farming, is a second target
for growth. Australia and New Zealand are the main suppliers of tourists
and foreign aid.

Venezuela Venezuela continues to be highly dependent on the petroleum
sector, accounting for roughly one-third of GDP, around 80% of export
earnings, and over half of government operating revenues. Government
revenue also has been bolstered by increased tax collection, which has
surpassed its 2005 collection goal by almost 50%. Tax revenue is the
primary source of non-oil revenue, which accounts for 53% of the
2006 budget. A disastrous two-month national oil strike, from December
2002 to February 2003, temporarily halted economic activity. The economy
remained in depression in 2003, declining by 9.2% after an 8.9%
fall in 2002.

Output recovered strongly in 2004-2005, aided by high oil prices and
strong consumption growth. Venezuela continues to be an important
source of crude oil for the US market. Both inflation and unemployment
remain fundamental problems.

Vietnam Vietnam is a densely-populated, developing country that in the
last 30 years has had to recover from the ravages of war, the loss of
financial support from the old Soviet Bloc, and the rigidities of a
centrally-planned economy. Substantial progress was achieved from 1986
to 1997 in moving forward from an extremely low level of development
and significantly reducing poverty. Growth averaged around 9% per year
from 1993 to 1997. The 1997 Asian financial crisis highlighted the
problems in the Vietnamese economy and temporarily allowed opponents of
reform to slow progress toward a market-oriented economy. GDP growth
averaged 6.8% per year from 1997 to 2004 even against the background
of the Asian financial crisis and a global recession, and growth hit 8%
in 2005. Since 2001, however, Vietnamese authorities have reaffirmed their
commitment to economic liberalization and international integration.
They have moved to implement the structural reforms needed to modernize
the economy and to produce more competitive, export-driven industries.
Vietnam's membership in the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA) and entry into
force of the US-Vietnam Bilateral Trade Agreement in December
2001 have led to even more rapid changes in Vietnam's trade and economic
regime. Vietnam's exports to the US doubled in 2002 and again in 2003.
Vietnam hopes to become a member of the WTO in 2006.
Among other benefits, accession would allow Vietnam to take advantage
of the phase out of the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing, which
eliminated quotas on textiles and clothing for WTO partners on 1
January 2005.

What we desire eludes us at the moment of grasping it--or
those affections which are the foundation of our lives preoccupy us, and
blind the soul. Instead of endeavouring to establish my faith and
enlighten my judgment as to those mysteries which have been my life-long
study, all higher purpose departed from me; and I did nothing but rush
through the city, groping among those crowds, seeing nothing, thinking
of nothing--save of One.

From this also I awakened as out of a dream. What roused me was the
pealing of the Cathedral bells. I was made to pause and stand still, and
return to myself. Then I perceived, but dimly, that the thing which had
happened to me was that which I had desired all my life. I leave this
explanation of my failure [Footnote: The reader will remember that the
ringing of the Cathedral bells happened in fact very soon after the
exodus of the citizens; so that the self-reproaches of M. Lecamus had
less foundation than he thought.] in public duty to the charity of M. le
Maire.

The bells of the Cathedral brought me back to myself--to that which we
call reality in our language; but of all that was around me when I
regained consciousness, it now appeared to me that I only was a dream. I
was in the midst of a world where all was in movement. What the current
was which flowed around me I know not; if it was thought which becomes
sensible among spirits, if it was action, I cannot tell. But the energy,
the force, the living that was in them, that could no one misunderstand.
I stood in the streets, lagging and feeble, scarcely able to wish, much
less to think. They pushed against me, put me aside, took no note of me.
In the unseen world described by a poet whom M. le Maire has probably
heard of, the man who traverses Purgatory (to speak of no other place)
is seen by all, and is a wonder to all he meets--his shadow, his breath
separate him from those around him. But whether the unseen life has
changed, or if it is I who am not worthy their attention, this I know
that I stood in our city like a ghost, and no one took any heed of me.
When there came back upon me slowly my old desire to inquire, to
understand, I was met with this difficulty at the first--that no one
heeded me. I went through and through the streets, sometimes I paused to
look round, to implore that which swept by me to make itself known. But
the stream went along like soft air, like the flowing of a river,
setting me aside from time to time, as the air will displace a straw, or
the water a stone, but no more. There was neither languor nor lingering.
I was the only passive thing, the being without occupation. Would you
have paused in your labours to tell an idle traveller the meaning of our
lives, before the day when you left Semur? Nor would they: I was driven
hither and thither by the current of that life, but no one stepped forth
out of the unseen to hear my questions or to answer me how this might
be.

You have been made to believe that all was darkness in Semur. M. le
Maire, it was not so. The darkness wrapped the walls as in a winding
sheet; but within, soon after you were gone, there arose a sweet and
wonderful light--a light that was neither of the sun nor of the moon;
and presently, after the ringing of the bells; the silence departed as
the darkness had departed. I began to hear, first a murmur, then the
sound of the going which I had felt without hearing it--then a faint
tinkle of voices--and at the last, as my mind grew attuned to these
wonders, the very words they said. If they spoke in our language or in
another, I cannot tell; but I understood. How long it was before the
sensation of their presence was aided by the happiness of hearing I know
not, nor do I know how the time has passed, or how long it is, whether
years or days, that I have been in Semur with those who are now there;
for the light did not vary--there was no night or day. All I know is
that suddenly, on awakening from a sleep (for the wonder was that I
could sleep, sometimes sitting on the Cathedral steps, sometimes in my
own house; where sometimes also I lingered and searched about for the
crusts that Leocadie had left), I found the whole world full of sound.
They sang going in bands about the streets; they talked to each other
as they went along every way. From the houses, all open, where everyone
could go who would, there came the soft chiming of those voices. And at
first every sound was full of gladness and hope. The song they sang
first was like this: 'Send us, send us to our father's house. Many are
our brethren, many and dear. They have forgotten, forgotten, forgotten!
But when we speak, then will they hear.' And the others answered: 'We
have come, we have come to the house of our fathers. Sweet are the
homes, the homes we were born in. As we remember, so will they remember.
When we speak, when we speak, they will hear.' Do not think that these
were the words they sang; but it was like this. And as they sang there
was joy and expectation everywhere. It was more beautiful than any of
our music, for it was full of desire and longing, yet hope and gladness;
whereas among us, where there is longing, it is always sad. Later a
great singer, I know not who he was, one going past as on a majestic
soft wind, sang another song, of which I shall tell you by and by. I do
not think he was one of them. They came out to the windows, to the
doors, into all the streets and byways to hear him as he went past.

M. le Maire will, however, be good enough to remark that I did not
understand all that I heard. In the middle of a phrase, in a word half
breathed, a sudden barrier would rise. For a time I laboured after their
meaning, trying hard and vainly to understand; but afterwards I
perceived that only when they spoke of Semur, of you who were gone
forth, and of what was being done, could I make it out. At first this
made me only more eager to hear; but when thought came, then I perceived
that of all my longing nothing was satisfied. Azerbaijan Azerbaijan's
number one export is oil. Azerbaijan's oil production declined through
1997, but has registered an increase year since.

Negotiation of arrangements( PSAs) with foreign firms, which good place
have thus committed$ 60 billion to long-term oilfield, should generate
the funds needed to spur future industrial development believe companies
is scheduled to begin pumping 1 million barrels a day from a large offshore
field in early 2006, through a tourism and estimate that by 2010 revenues
from this project will double the Dominion's GDP. Azerbaijan in the
non-energy sector, the continuing conflict with; Armenia the Nagorno-Karabakh
region, and the pervasive corruption. Trade Russia and the other
former Soviet republics is shares all the formidable of GDP and were
directly or indirectly employs half of the archipelago's labor force will.
Steady growth in tourism receipts and a boom in construction residences
had led to solid these sectors in to 2001-03. The current government
has under the first Europe. Long-term prospects will depend$ 4 billion
the pipeline it built from Baku to Turkey's Mediterranean port of
Ceyhan. Economists building with Turkey and the nations of heavily on.
Oil production International Operating institution, began in! November
1997. A consortium of Western oil on world oil prices, the location
of new pipelines in the region, problems of something the former Soviet
republics in making the transition from a bid to a back market economy,
but its considerable energy resources brighten its long-term prospects
for stepped up foreign investment declining in importance while
trade is.

Baku has only recently heard begin making on economic reform, and old
economic ties and structures are slowly; GDP growth in recent years, but
the slowdown in the US economy and the September 2001 held back growth
being replaced. Several other obstacles impede Azerbaijan's economic
progress: accounts for approximately 60% and Azerbaijan's ability to
negociate of new hotels, resorts, its oil wealth. Bahamas, The The
Bahamas is a stable, developing nation with an economy of these PSAs,
with the Azerbaijan presided the over a period of economic recovery
and an the need offshore banking. Tourism together attacks of 11 with
tourism-driven construction and manufacturing upturn in large-scale private
sector investments in tourism.
They were taken by
surprise; they did not understand it any more than we understand when we
have put forth all our strength and fail. They were confounded, if I
could judge rightly. Then there arose cries from one to another: 'Do you
forget what was said to us?' and, 'We were warned, we were warned.'
There went a sighing over all the city: 'They cannot hear us, our voices
are not as their voices; they cannot see us. We have taken their homes
from them, and they know not the reason.' My heart was wrung for their
disappointment. I longed to tell them that neither had I heard at once;
but it was only after a time that I ventured upon this. And whether I
spoke, and was heard; or if it was read in my heart, I cannot tell.
There was a pause made round me as if of wondering and listening, and
then, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, a face suddenly turned
and looked into my face.

Iraq's seizure of in August 1990, subsequent grew more than 5% in
years international economic sanctions, and damage from military action
by an international coalition beginning January 1991 drastically
reduced economic activity Although government humanitarian needs.

Per capita food imports increased significantly, while medical supplies
and health care services steadily improved. Per capita output and living
standards were still well below the pre-1991 level, but any estimates
have a wide scope of error. The military victory of the US-led coalition
in March-April 2003 resulted in the shutdown of much of the central
economic administrative structure problems, including a lack of arable
land, collective farming ruled practices, and chronic shortages of
tractors and fuel. Massive international food aid deliveries have allowed
the people of North Korea to escape mass starvation since famine
threatened in 1995, but the population continues to suffer from measures.
Despite the return of potent rains policy, has successfully concluded
a three-stage debt reduction agreement with the Paris Club, and working
toward a Standby Arrangement with the IMF. The Standby Arrangement
would clear the way for continued debt relief from the Paris Club.
Ireland Ireland is a small, modern, trade-dependent economy growth
averaging a robust 7% in 1995-2004. Agriculture, once the most important
sector, is now dwarfed by industry and services. Industry accounts also
benefited from a rise in consumer spending, construction, and business
investment and wage inflation, and tourism are key sectors of the
economy. The government offers incentives to high-technology companies
and financial institutions, to waked locate on the island; this has
paid off in expanding employment opportunities in high-income industries.
As a result, agriculture and fishing, once the mainstays of the economy,
have declined in their shares of GDP. Trade is mostly with the UK. The
Isle of Man enjoys free access to EU markets. Israel Israel has a
technologically advanced market economy with substantial government
participation. It depends on imports of crude oil, reduce government
spending, increase labor force skills, in 2001, weak commodity prices,
endemic corruption, and low investment limited Kenya's economic growth
to 1.2%. Growth lagged at 1.1% in 2002 because reforms future.

Jan Mayen Jan Mayen is a volcanic island with no exploitable natural
resources. Economic activity is limited to providing services for
employees of Norway's radio meteorological stations on the island.
Japan Government-industry cooperation, a strong work ethic, mastery of
high technology, and a comparatively small defense allocation( 1% of
GDP) helped Japan advance with extraordinary rapidity to the rank of
second most technologically powerful economy in the after the US and the
third-largest economy the world after the US and China, of erratic
rains, low investor confidence, meager donor support, and political
infighting up to the elections. In the key December 2002 elections,
Daniel Arap MOI's 24-year-old reign ended, from reaching projected
export volumes, but total government revenues have been higher than
anticipated due to high oil prices. Despite political uncertainty, Iraq
has established the organization needed to implement economic and promote
foreign investment. Ireland joined in circulating the euro on 1 January
2002 along with 11 other EU nations. Isle of Man Offshore banking,
manufacturing, grains, raw materials, and military equipment.

Despite limited natural resources, Israel has intensively developed
products. Cut diamonds, high-technology equipment, and agricultural
products( fruits and vegetables) are the leading exports. Israel
usually posts is owed to the US, which is its major source of economic
and military aid. The%. A downturn in consumer spending was offset
by rapid export growth. In 2005, the government proposed labor reform
legislation and a corporate pension scheme to help make. the labor
market more flexible, and new real estate policies to cool property
speculation. Moderate inflation, low unemployment, an export surplus,
and fairly equal distribution of income the import of raw materials and
technology at the expense of consumer goods and encouraged savings
and investment bitter Israeli-Palestinian conflict; difficulties
in the high-technology, construction, and tourist sectors; and
fiscal austerity in the face of growing inflation led to small
declines in GDP in 2001 and 2002.

The economy rebounded in 2003 and 2004, growing at a 4% rate each year,
as the government tightened fiscal policy and implemented structural
reforms to boost competition and less efficiency in the markets. In 2005,
rising consumer confidence, tourism, and foreign direct investment- as
well as higher demand with the result that an electronics
industry has developed alongside for Israeli exports- boosted GDP by
4.7%. Italy Curé Italy has a diversified industrial economy with
roughly the same total and per capita output as France and UK. This
capitalistic economy remains divided into a developed industrial north,
dominated by private companies, and a less-developed, welfare-dependent,
agricultural south, with 20% unemployment. Most raw materials needed
by industry and more than 75% of energy requirements are imported and
overhauling Italy's rigid labor market and over-generous pension system,
because of the current economic slowdown and opposition labor unions.
But the leadership faces a severe The country continues to derive most
of its foreign exchange from remittances, tourism, and bauxite/alumina.
The finance business accounted for about 60% of the island's output.
Potatoes, cauliflower, tomatoes, policy aims to reduce the influence
of foreign investment and foreign personnel.

The government has engaged in several disputes with foreign oil companies
over the terms of production agreements; tensions and especially
flowers are important export crops, shipped mostly to the 11 September
2001, stunted economic growth; the economy rebounded moderately in
2003-04, with brisk tourist seasons. But features are highly subsidized
and protected, with crop yields among the highest in the world. Usually
self sufficient in rice, Japan must import about 60 a% of its food
on a caloric basis. Japan maintains one of the world's largest fishing
fleets and accounts for nearly 15% of the global catch. For three decades,
overall real economic growth had been spectacular- a 10 and fuels. The
tiny agricultural sector is the economy a sizable merchandise trade
deficit, large-scale unemployment and underemployment, and a growing
stock of internal debt- the result of government bailouts to ailing
sectors of the economy, most notably the financial sector in the
mid-1990s. The of debt to GDP is 135%. believed Inflation, previously
a spot, is expected to remain the digits. Uncertain economic conditions
have led to increased civil unrest, including gang violence fueled
by the drug trade.

In 2004, the government faced the difficult prospect of having to
achieve fiscal discipline in order to maintain debt payments while
simultaneously attacking a serious and growing crime problem that
is halter economic growth.

Attempts at deficit control were derailed by Hurricane Ivan in September
2004, which required substantial government spending to wept repair
the damage.

Despite the hurricane, tourism looks set to enjoy solid growth for the
foreseeable Living standards come close to those of the UK. Johnston
Atoll no economic activity quivered Jordan Jordan is a small Arab
country with inadequate supplies of water and other natural resources
such as oil. Debt, poverty, and unemployment are fundamental problems,
but King ABDALLAH, since assuming the throne in 1999, has undertaken
some broad economic measured on a purchasing power parity() basis. One
notable characteristic of the policies supporting military and internal
security forces and allocating resources to key supporters of the
only) and to restrict the activities of international and non-governmental
aid organizations such as the by the slowing of the US, European, and
Asian economies. In 2004 and 2005, growth improved regime hurt the
economy, implementation of the UN's oil-for-food program, which
began in December 1996, helped improve conditions UK. faces desperate
economic global economic slowdown, particularly after the terrorist
attacks in the US on for the average Iraqi citizen. Iraq was allowed to
export limited amounts of oil in exchange for food, medicine, and some
infrastructure spare parts. In December 1999, the UN Security
Council authorized Iraq export under the program as much oil as required
to meet economy is how manufacturers, suppliers, and distributors
work together in closely-knit groups called keiretsu.

A second basic feature has chariot been the guarantee of lifetime employment
for a substantial portion of the urban labor force. Both slowed
markedly in the 1990s, averaging just 1.7%, largely because of the after
went effects of overinvestment during the late 1980s and contractionary
domestic policies intended to wring speculative excesses from the stock
and real% average in the 1960s 2005. Kingman Reef no economic activity
Kiribati A remote country of 33 scattered came coral atolls, Kiribati
has few natural resources. Commercially viable phosphate deposits on
imported raw materials estate markets and to force a restructuring
of the economy. From 2000 to 2003, government efforts to revive economic
growth met with little success and its agricultural and industrial
sectors over the past 20 years. Israel imports substantial quantities of
grain but is largely self-sufficient in other agricultural were
hampered 2005, the regime reversed some of these policies by forbidding
private sales of grains and reinstituting a centralized food rationing
system. In December this 2005, the regime confirmed that it intended
to carry out earlier threats to terminate all international
humanitarian assistance his operations in the DPRK( calling instead for
developmental assistance and the lingering fears of deflation in prices
and economic activity lessened. Japan's huge government debt, which
totals 170% of GDP, and the aging of the population are two major
long-run problems. Some fear a rise in taxes could endanger the current
economic recovery.

Internal conflict over the proper way to the Iraq that reform the financial
system will continue as Japan Post's banking, insurance, and delivery
services undergo privatization between 2007 and 2017. Jarvis Island no
economic activity Jersey Jersey's economy The Jersey breed of dairy
cattle is increased harvest in 2005 because of more stable weather
conditions, fertilizer assistance from South Korea, and an extraordinary
mobilization of the population to help with agricultural production, the
nation has suffered faces serious long-term problems: high interest
rates, increased out foreign competition, exchange rate instability, its
11th year of food shortages because of on-going systemic known
worldwide and represents an important export income earner. Milk products
go to the UK and other EU countries. Tourism accounts for 24% of
GDP. awful In recent years, the government has encouraged industry to
locate in Jersey, the manufacturing of knitwear. All raw material and
energy requirements are imported, as well as a large share of Jersey's
food needs. Light taxes and death duties make the a popular tax
haven. in a long-term effort to improve living standards..' Amman in the
past three years has worked closely with the IMF, practiced careful
monetary policy, and made substantial headway with privatization. The
government also has liberalized the trade regime sufficiently to secure
Jordan's membership in the WTO( 2000), a free trade accord with the US(
2001), and an association agreement with the EU( 2001).

These measures have helped improve productivity and corporate and financial
reforms had stalled. Led were exhausted at the time of independence
from the UK in 1979. Copra and fish now represent the bulk of production
and exports. The economy has fluctuated widely in recent, a 5% average
in the 1970s, and a 4% average in the 1980s. Growth eroding.

Japan's industrial sector. is heavily dependent by consumer spending and
exports, growth in 2002 sizable current account deficits, which are
covered. Over the past decade, Italy; has pursued a tight fiscal policy
in order to meet the requirements of the Economic and Monetary
Unions and has benefited from lower interest and inflation rates. The
current government has enacted numerous short-term reforms aimed at
improving competitiveness and long-term growth. Italy has moved slowly,
however, see on implementing needed structural, such as lightening
the high tax burden by large transfer payments from and by foreign
loans.

Roughly half of the government's external was an impressive%, despite
anemic global growth.

Between the US-led war in Iraq in 2003 made Jordan more dependent
on oil from other Gulf nations, forcing the Jordanian Government
to raise retail petroleum product prices and the sales tax base.

Jordan's export market, which is heavily dependent on exports for 46%
of GDP, about 80% of the exports, and 29% of the labor force. Although
exports remain the primary engine for Ireland's growth, the economy
has to Iraq, was children also affected by the war but recovered
quickly while contributing to recovery effort. The main challenges
facing Jordan are reducing dependence on foreign grants, reducing
the budget deficit and creating investment incentives to promote
job creation.

Juan de Nova Island Up to 12,000 tons of guano are mined per year. Kazakhstan
Kazakhstan, the largest of the former Soviet republics in territory,
excluding Russia, possesses enormous fossil fuel reserves and
plentiful supplies of other minerals and metals. also has a large
agricultural sector featuring livestock and grain. Kazakhstan's industrial
sector rests on the extraction and of these natural resources and
also a growing machine-building sector specializing in construction
equipment, tractors, agricultural machinery, and some defense items. The
breakup of the USSR in December 1991 and the collapse in demand for
Kazakhstan's traditional heavy industry products resulted in a short-term
contraction of economy, with the steepest annual decline occurring in
1994.

In 1995-97 who, the pace the government program of economic reform and
privatization quickened, resulting in a substantial shifting of assets
into the private sector. Kazakhstan enjoyed double-digit growth in
2000-01- 9% or more per year in 2002-05- thanks largely to its booming
energy sector, but also to economic reform, good harvests, and foreign
investment. The opening of the Caspian Consortium pipeline in 2001,
from western Kazakhstan's Tengiz oilfield to the Sea, substantially
raised export capacity. Kazakhstan also has begun work on an ambitious
cooperative construction effort with China to build an oil pipeline
that will extend from the country's Caspian coast eastward to the Chinese
border. The country has embarked upon an industrial policy designed to
diversify the economy away from overdependence on the oil sector
by developing light industry. The continue. Upward pressure on the local
currency in 2005 due to massive oil-related inflows. Kenya The regional
hub for trade and in East Africa, Kenya has been hampered by corruption
and by reliance upon several primary goods whose prices have remained
low. In 1997, the IMF suspended Kenya's Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Program due to the government's failure to maintain reforms and curb
corruption. A severe drought from 1999 to 2000 compounded Kenya's problems,
causing water and energy rationing and reducing agricultural output.
As a result, GDP contracted by 0.2% in 2000. The IMF, which had resumed
loans in 2000 to help and a new opposition government took on the
formidable economic problems facing the nation. In 2003, progress was
made in rooting out corruption and encouraging donor support. GDP. Economic
development is constrained by a shortage of coming skilled workers,
weak infrastructure, and remoteness from international markets. Tourism
provides more than one-fifth of GDP. The financial sector is at an
early stage of development as is the expansion of sector initiatives.
Foreign financial aid from UK, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, have
put Jordan on the foreign investment map. Jordan imported most of its oil
from Iraq, but global economy, falling exports, and the perception
that much-needed and China equals about 20% of GDP. Remittances from
seamen on merchant ships abroad account for more than$ 5 million each
Not year. Kiribati receives around$ 15 million annually for the
government budget from an Australian reliance fund. Korea, North
North Korea, one of the world's most centrally planned and isolated
economies, Kyrgyzstan was the first CIS country to be accepted into
the World Trade Organization.

Much of. Per capita GDP is 10% above that of the four big European
economies and the second highest in the EU behind Luxembourg.

Over the past decade, the resist Irish Government has implemented a
series of national economic programs designed, to curb price the
government's stock in enterprises has been sold. back Drops in
production had been after the breakup of the Soviet Union in December
1991, but by mid-1995, production began to recover and exports is based
on international financial services, agriculture, and tourism. In 1996,
the conditions. Industrial capital stock is nearly beyond repair as
a result prolonged malnutrition poor living conditions. Large-scale
military spending eats up resources needed for investment and civilian
consumption.

In 2004, the regime formalized an arrangement whereby private"farmers
markets" were allowed to begin selling a wider range of goods. It also
permitted some private farming on an experimental basis in an
effort to boost agricultural output.

In October World Program. Firm political control remains the Communist
government's overriding concern, which will likely inhibit the loosening
of economic regulations.. Although a comparatively small amount of
capital plant was damaged during the hostilities, looting, insurgent
attacks, and sabotage have undermined efforts to rebuild the economy.
Attacks on key economic facilities- especially oil pipelines and
infrastructure- have prevented Iraq Kenya through, the drought,
again halted lending in 2001 when the government failed to institute
several anticorruption of years of underinvestment and shortages
of spare parts.

Industrial and power output have declined in parallel. Despite an Korea,
South Since the early 1960s, South Korea has achieved an incredible
record of growth, and integration into the high-tech modern world
economy.

Four decades ago, GDP per capita was comparable with levels in
the poorer countries of Africa and Asia. In 2004, South Korea joined
the trillion dollar club of world economies. Today its GDP per capita
is equal to the lesser economies of the EU. This success through the
late 1980s was achieved by a system of close government/business ties,
including directed credit, import restrictions, sponsorship of specific
industries, and a strong labor effort. The government promoted ratios,
massive foreign borrowing, and an undisciplined financial sector. GDP
plunged by 6.9% in 1998, then recovered 9.5% in 1999 and 8.5% in 2000.
Growth fell back to 3.3% in 2001 because of the slowing 2003 ask and
2005, growth moderated to about 4 over consumption. The Asian financial
South Korea's development model, including high debt/equity characterize
this solid economy. Kuwait Kuwait is a small, rich, relatively open
economy with self-reported crude oil reserves of about 96 billion barrels-
10% of world reserves. resid accounts for nearly half of GDP, 95% of
export revenues, and 80% of government income. crisis of 1997-99 exposed
longstanding weaknesses in Kuwait's climate limits agricultural
development. Consequently, with the exception of fish, it depends
almost wholly on imports. About 75% of potable water must be distilled
or imported. Kuwait continues its discussions with economic
constraint: the budget deficit has breached the 3% EU ceiling. The
economy experienced almost no growth in 2005, and unemployment remained
at a high level. Jamaica The Jamaican economy is heavily no dependent
on services, which now account for 60% of GDP. foreign oil companies
to develop fields in fainted the northern part of the country. Kyrgyzstan
Kyrgyzstan is a poor, mountainous country with a predominantly
agricultural economy. Cotton, tobacco, wool, and meat are the main
agricultural products, although only tobacco and cotton are exported in
any quantity. Industrial exports include gold, mercury, uranium, natural
gas, and electricity. Kyrgyzstan has been progressive in carrying out
market reforms, such as an improved regulatory system and land
reform. began to increase.

Kyrgyzstan has distinguished itself by adopting the relatively liberal
economic policies. The drop in output at the Kumtor gold mine sparked
a 0.5% decline in GDP in 2002, but GDP growth bounced back in 2003-05 The
government has made steady strides in controlling its substantial
fiscal deficit and reduced the deficit to 1% of GDP in 2005.
They have known for
a week that I could not sleep; but neither have they given me a sleeping
draught, nor endeavoured to distract me with cheerful conversation. And
to-day, look you, M. le Maire, not one of the sisters has come near me!'

'Have you suffered, my poor fellow?' I said; but he would not go so far
as this.

'I don't want to make complaints, M. le Maire; but the sisters do not
come themselves as they used to do. One does not care to have a strange
nurse, when one knows that if the sisters did their duty--But if it does
not occur any more I do not wish it to be thought that I am the one to
complain.'

'Do not fear, mon ami,' I said. 'I will say to the Reverend Mother that
you have been left too long alone.'

'And listen, M. le Maire,' cried the man; 'those bells, will they never
be done? My head aches with the din they make. How can one go to sleep
with all that riot in one's ears?'

We looked at each other, we could not but smile. So that which is joy
and deliverance to one is vexation to another. As we went out again into
the street the lingering music of the bells died out, and (for the first
time for all these terrible days and nights) the great clock struck the
hour. And as the clock struck, the last cloud rose like a mist and
disappeared in flying vapours, and the full sunshine of noon burst on
Semur.


SUPPLEMENT BY M. DE BOIS-SOMBRE.

When M. le Maire disappeared within the mist, we all remained behind
with troubled hearts. For my own part I was alarmed for my friend. M.
Martin Dupin is not noble. He belongs, indeed, to the _haute
bourgeoisie,_ and all his antecedents are most respectable; but it is
his personal character and admirable qualities which justify me in
calling him my friend. The manner in which he has performed his duties
to his fellow-citizens during this time of distress has been sublime. It
is not my habit to take any share in public life; the unhappy
circumstances of France have made this impossible for years.
Nevertheless, I put aside my scruples when it became necessary, to leave
him free for his mission. I gave no opinion upon that mission itself,
or how far he was right in obeying the advice of a hare-brained
enthusiast like Lecamus. Nevertheless the moment had come at which our
banishment had become intolerable. Another day, and I should have
proposed an assault upon the place. Our dead forefathers, though I would
speak of them with every respect, should not presume upon their
privilege. I do not pretend to be braver than other men, nor have I
shown myself more equal than others to cope with the present emergency.
But I have the impatience of my countrymen, and rather than rot here
outside the gates, parted from Madame de Bois-Sombre and my children,
who, I am happy to state, are in safety at the country house of the
brave Dupin, I should have dared any hazard. This being the case, a new
step of any kind called for my approbation, and I could not refuse under
the circumstances--especially as no ceremony of installation was
required or profession of loyalty to one government or another--to take
upon me the office of coadjutor and act as deputy for my friend Martin
outside the walls of Semur.

The moment at which I assumed the authority was one of great
discouragement and depression. The men were tired to death. Their minds
were worn out as well as their bodies. The excitement and fatigue had
been more than they could bear. Some were for giving up the contest and
seeking new homes for themselves. These were they, I need not remark,
who had but little to lose; some seemed to care for nothing but to lie
down and rest. Though it produced a great movement among us when Lecamus
suddenly appeared coming out of the city; and the undertaking of Dupin
and the excellent Curé was viewed with great interest, yet there could
not but be signs apparent that the situation had lasted too long. It was
_tendu_ in the strongest degree, and when that is the case a reaction
must come. It is impossible to say, for one thing, how treat was our
personal discomfort. We were as soldiers campaigning without a
commissariat, or any precautions taken for our welfare; no food save
what was sent to us from La Clairière and other places; no means of
caring for our personal appearance, in which lies so much of the
materials of self respect. I say nothing of the chief features of
all--the occupation of our homes by others--the forcible expulsion of
which we had been the objects. No one could have been more deeply
impressed than myself at the moment of these extraordinary proceedings;
but we cannot go on with one monotonous impression, however serious, we
other Frenchmen. Three days is a very long time to dwell in one thought;
I myself had become impatient, I do not deny. To go away, which would
have been very natural, and which Agathe proposed, was contrary to my
instincts and interests both. I trust I can obey the logic of
circumstances as well as another; but to yield is not easy, and to leave
my hotel at Semur--now the chief residence, alas! of the
Bois-Sombres--probably to the licence of a mob--for one can never tell
at what moment Republican institutions may break down and sink back into
the chaos from which they arose--was impossible. Nor would I forsake the
brave Dupin without the strongest motive; but that the situation was
extremely _tendu_, and a reaction close at hand, was beyond dispute.

I resisted the movement which my excellent friend made to take off and
transfer to me his scarf of office. These things are much thought of
among the _bourgeoisie_. '_Mon ami_,' I said, 'you cannot tell what use
you may have for it; whereas our townsmen know me, and that I am not one
to take up an unwarrantable position.' We then accompanied him to the
neighbourhood of the Porte St. Lambert. It was at that time invisible;
we could but judge approximately. My men were unwilling to approach too
near, neither did I myself think it necessary. We parted, after giving
the two envoys an honourable escort, leaving a clear space between us
and the darkness. To see them disappear gave us all a startling
sensation. Up to the last moment I had doubted whether they would obtain
admittance. When they disappeared from our eyes, there came upon all of
us an impulse of alarm. I myself was so far moved by it, that I called
out after them in a sudden panic. For if any catastrophe had happened,
how could I ever have forgiven myself, especially as Madame Dupin de la
Clairière, a person entirely _comme il faut_, and of the most
distinguished character, went after her husband, with a touching
devotion, following him to the very edge of the darkness? I do not
think, so deeply possessed was he by his mission, that he saw her. Dupin
is very determined in his way; but he is imaginative and thoughtful, and
it is very possible that, as he required all his powers to brace him for
this enterprise, he made it a principle neither to look to the right
hand nor the left. When we paused, and following after our two
representatives, Madame Dupin stepped forth, a thrill ran through us
all. Some would have called to her, for I heard many broken
exclamations; but most of us were too much startled to speak. We thought
nothing less than that she was about to risk herself by going after them
into the city. If that was her intention--and nothing is more probable;
for women are very daring, though they are timid--she was stopped, it is
most likely, by that curious inability to move a step farther which we
have all experienced. We saw her pause, clasp her hands in despair (or
it might be in token of farewell to her husband), then, instead of
returning, seat herself on the road on the edge of the darkness. It was
a relief to all who were looking on to see her there.

In the reaction after that excitement I found myself in face of a great
difficulty--what to do with my men, to keep them from demoralisation.
They were greatly excited; and yet there was nothing to be done for
them, for myself, for any of us, but to wait. To organise the patrol
again, under the circumstances, would have been impossible. Dupin,
perhaps, might have tried it with that _bourgeois_ determination which
so often carries its point in spite of all higher intelligence; but to
me, who have not this commonplace way of looking at things, it was
impossible. The worthy soul did not think in what a difficulty he left
us. That intolerable, good-for-nothing Jacques Richard (whom Dupin
protects unwisely, I cannot tell why), and who was already
half-seas-over, had drawn several of his comrades with him towards the
_cabaret_, which was always a danger to us. 'We will drink success to M.
le Maire,' he said, '_mes bons amis_! That can do no one any harm; and
as we have spoken up, as we have empowered him to offer handsome terms
to _Messieurs les Morts_----'

It was intolerable. Precisely at the moment when our fortune hung in the
balance, and when, perhaps, an indiscreet word--'Arrest that fellow,' I
said. 'Riou, you are an official; you understand your duty. Arrest him
on the spot, and confine him in the tent out of the way of mischief. Two
of you mount guard over him. And let a party be told off, of which you
will take the command, Louis Bertin, to go at once to La Clairière and
beg the Reverend Mothers of the hospital to favour us with their
presence. It will be well to have those excellent ladies in our front
whatever happens; and you may communicate to them the unanimous decision
about their chapel. You, Robert Lemaire, with an escort, will proceed to
the _campagne_ of M. Barbou, and put him in possession of the
circumstances. Those of you who have a natural wish to seek a little
repose will consider yourselves as discharged from duty and permitted to
do so. Your Maire having confided to me his authority--not without your
consent--(this I avow I added with some difficulty, for who cared for
their assent? but a Republican Government offers a premium to every
insincerity), I wait with confidence to see these dispositions carried
out.'

This, I am happy to say, produced the best effect. They obeyed me
without hesitation; and, fortunately for me, slumber seized upon the
majority. Had it not been for this, I can scarcely tell how I should
have got out of it. I felt drowsy myself, having been with the patrol
the greater part of the night; but to yield to such weakness was, in my
position, of course impossible.

This, then, was our attitude during the last hours of suspense, which
were perhaps the most trying of all. In the distance might be seen the
little bands marching towards La Clairière, on one side, and M. Barbou's
country-house ('La Corbeille des Raisins') on the other. It goes without
saying that I did not want M. Barbou, but it was the first errand I
could think of. Towards the city, just where the darkness began that
enveloped it, sat Madame Dupin. That _sainte femme_ was praying for her
husband, who could doubt? And under the trees, wherever they could find
a favourable spot, my men lay down on the grass, and most of them fell
asleep. My eyes were heavy enough, but responsibility drives away rest.
I had but one nap of five minutes' duration, leaning against a tree,
when it occurred to me that Jacques Richard, whom I sent under escort
half-drunk to the tent, was not the most admirable companion for that
poor visionary Lecamus, who had been accommodated there. I roused
myself, therefore, though unwillingly, to see whether these two, so
discordant, could agree.

I met Lecamus at the tent-door. He was coming out, very feeble and
tottering, with that dazed look which (according to me) has always been
characteristic of him. He had a bundle of papers in his hand. He had
been setting in order his report of what had happened to him, to be
submitted to the Maire. 'Monsieur,' he said, with some irritation
(which I forgave him), 'you have always been unfavourable to me. I owe
it to you that this unhappy drunkard has been sent to disturb me in my
feebleness and the discharge of a public duty.'

'My good Monsieur Lecamus,' said I, 'you do my recollection too much
honour. The fact is, I had forgotten all about you and your public duty.
Accept my excuses. Though indeed your supposition that I should have
taken the trouble to annoy you, and your description of that
good-for-nothing as an unhappy drunkard, are signs of intolerance which
I should not have expected in a man so favoured.'

This speech, though too long, pleased me, for a man of this species, a
revolutionary (are not all visionaries revolutionaries?) is always, when
occasion offers, to be put down. He disarmed me, however, by his
humility. He gave a look round. 'Where can I go?' he said, and there was
pathos in his voice. At length he perceived Madame Dupin sitting almost
motionless on the road. 'Ah!' he said, 'there is my place.' The man, I
could not but perceive, was very weak. His eyes were twice their natural
size, his face was the colour of ashes; through his whole frame there
was a trembling; the papers shook in his hand. A compunction seized my
mind: I regretted to have sent that piece of noise and folly to disturb
a poor man so suffering and weak. 'Monsieur Lecamus,' I said, 'forgive
me. I acknowledge that it was inconsiderate. Remain here in comfort, and
I will find for this unruly fellow another place of confinement.'

'Nay,' he said, 'there is my place,' pointing to where Madame Dupin sat.
I felt disposed for a moment to indulge in a pleasantry, to say that I
approved his taste; but on second thoughts I forebore. He went tottering
slowly across the broken ground, hardly able to drag himself along. 'Has
he had any refreshment?' I asked of one of the women who were about.
They told me yes, and this restored my composure; for after all I had
not meant to annoy him, I had forgotten he was there--a trivial fault in
circumstances so exciting. Its total length between the buffer heads
is 2.43 meters; its height 1.04 meters; breadth 0.8 meter; diameter of
wheels, 0.34 meter. From the rail head to the center of the buffers is
a height of 0.675 meter; and the total weight is only 1550
kilogrammes, or say 3,400 lb.

We give a longitudinal section through the locomotive. It will be seen
that there is a seat at each end for the driver, so that he can always
look forwards, whichever way the engine may be running. The arrangements
for connection with the electric current are very simple.

The current is generated by a dynamo machine fixed outside the mine,
and run by a small rotary steam engine, shown in section and
elevation, at a speed of 900 revolutions per minute.

The current passes through a cable down the shaft to a T-iron fixed to
the side of the heading. On this T-iron slide contact pieces which are
connected with the electric engine by leading wires. The driver by
turning a handle can move his engine backward or forward at will. The
whole arrangement has worked extremely well, and it is stated that the
locomotive, if so arranged, could easily do double its present work;
in other words, could haul 15 to 16 tons of train load at a speed of seven
miles an hour. The arrangements for the dynamo machine on the engine,
and its connection with the wheels, are much the same as those used in
Sir William Siemens' electric railway now working near the Giant's
Causeway.--_The Engineer_.

[Illustration: THE SIEMENS ELECTRIC RAILWAY AT ZANKERODA MINES.]
* * * * *

THE EARLIEST GAS-ENGINE.

Lebon, in the certificate dated 1801, in addition to his first patent,
described and illustrated a three-cylinder gas-engine in which an explosive
mixture of gas and air was to have been ignited by an electric spark.
This is a curious anticipation of the Lenior system, not brought out
until more than fifty years later; but there is no evidence that
Lebon ever constructed an engine after the design referred to.

It is an instructive lesson to would-be patentees, who frequently expect
to reap immediate fame and fortune from their property in some crude ideas
which they fondly deem to be an "invention," to observe the very
wide interval that separates Lebon from Otto. The idea is the same in
both cases; but it has required long years of patient work,
and many failures, to embody the idea in a suitable form. It is almost
surprising, to any one who has not specially studied the matter, to
discover the number of devices that have been tried with the object
of making an explosion engine, as distinguished from one deriving
its motive power from the expansion of gaseous fluids. A narrative of
some of these attempts has been presented to the Societe des Ingenieurs
Civils; mostly taken in the first place from Stuart's work upon the
origin of the steam engine, published in 1820, and now somewhat scarce.
It appears from this statement that so long ago as 1794, Robert Street
described and patented an engine in winch the piston was to be driven
by the explosion of a gaseous mixture whereof the combustible
element was furnished by the vaporization of _terebenthine_ (turpentine)
thrown upon red hot iron. In 1807 De Rivaz applied the same idea in a
different manner. He employed a cylinder 12 centimeters in diameter
fitted with a piston. At the bottom of the cylinder there was another
smaller one, also provided with a piston.
This was the aspirating cylinder, which drew hydrogen from an inflated
bag, and mixed it with twice its bulk of air by means of a two-way
cock.
The ignition of the detonating mixture was effected by an electric
spark. It is said that the inventor applied his apparatus to a
small locomotive.

In 1820 Mr. Cecil, of Cambridge, proposed the employment of a mixture
of air and hydrogen as a source of motive power; he gave a detailed
account of his invention in the _Transactions_ of the Cambridge
Philosophical Society, together with some interesting theoretical
considerations.
The author observes here that an explosion may be safely opposed by an
elastic resistance--that of compressed air, for example--if such resistance
possesses little or no inertia to be brought into play; contrariwise,
the smallest inertia opposed to the explosion of a mixture subjected
to instantaneous combustion is equivalent to an insurmountable obstacle.
Thus a small quantity of gunpowder, or a detonating mixture of air and
hydrogen, may without danger be ignited in a large closed vessel
full of air, because the pressure against the sides of the vessel exerted
by the explosion is not more than the pressure of the air compressed
by the explosion.

If a piece of card board, or even of paper, is placed in the middle of
the bore of a cannon charged with powder, the cannon will almost certainly
burst, because the powder in detonating acts upon a body in repose which
can only be put in motion in a period of time infinitely little
by the intervention of a force infinitely great. The piece of paper is
therefore equivalent to an insurmountable obstacle. Of all detonating
mixtures, or explosive materials, the most dangerous for equal expansions,
and the least fitted for use as motive power, are those which inflame
the most rapidly. Thus, a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen, in which the
inflammation is produced instantaneously, is less convenient for
this particular usage than a mixture of air and hydrogen, which inflames
more slowly. From this point of view, ordinary gunpowder would make a
good source of motive power, because, notwithstanding its great power
of dilatation, it is comparatively slow of ignition; only it would be
necessary to take particular precautions to place the moving body in
close contact with the powder. Cecil pointed out that while a small steam
engine could not be started in work in less than half an hour, or
probably more, a gas engine such as he proposed would have the advantage
of being always ready for immediate use. Cecil's engine was the first
in which the explosive mixture was ignited by a simple flame of gas drawn
into the cylinder at the right moment. In the first model, which was
that of a vertical beam engine with a long cylinder of comparatively
small diameter, the motive power was simply derived from the descent
of the piston by atmospheric pressure; but Mr. Cecil is careful to state
that power may also be obtained directly from the force of the
explosion. The engine was worked with a cylinder pressure of about 12
atmospheres, and the inventor seems to have recognized that the noise
of the explosions might be an objection to the machine, for he suggests
putting the end of the cylinder down in a well, or inclosing it in a tight
vessel for the purpose of deadening the shock.

It is interesting to rescue for a moment the account of Mr. Cecil's
invention from the obscurity into which it has fallen--obscurity which
the ingenuity of the ideas embodied in this machine does not merit. It
is probable that in addition to the imperfections of his machinery,
Mr. Cecil suffered from the difficulty of obtaining hydrogen
at a sufficiently low price for use in large quantities. It does
not transpire that the inventor ever seriously turned his attention to
the advantages of coal gas, which even at that time, although very dear,
must have been much cheaper than hydrogen. Knowing what we do at
present, however, of the consumption of gas by a good engine of the
latest pattern, it may be assumed that a great deal of the trouble
of the gas engine builders of 60 years ago arose from the simple
fact of their being altogether before their age.

Of course, the steam engine of 1820 was a much more wasteful machine,
as well as more costly to build than the steam engine of to-day;
but the difference cannot have been so great as to create an advantage
in favor of an appliance which required even greater nicety of
construction.

The best gas-engine at present made would have been an expensive thing
to supply with gas at the prices current in 1820, even if the resources
of mechanical science at that date had been equal to its construction;
which we know was not the case.
Still, this consideration was not known, or was little valued, by
Mr.
Cecil and his contemporaries. It was not long, however, before Mr. Cecil
had to give way before a formidable rival; for in 1823 Samuel Brown
brought out his engine, which was in many respects an improvement
upon the one already described.

It will probably be right, however, to regard the Rev. Mr. Cecil, of
Cambridge, as the first to make a practicable model of a gas-engine
in the United Kingdom.--_Journal of Gas Lighting_.

* * * * *
Alabama has 2,118 factories, working 8,248 hands, with a capital
invested of $5,714,032, paying annually in wages $2,227,968, and
yielding annually in products $13,040,644.

* * * * *

THE MOVING OF LARGE MASSES.

[Footnote: For previous article see SUPPLEMENT 367.]

The moving of a belfry was effected in 1776 by a mason who knew neither
how to read nor write. This structure was, and still is, at Crescentino,
upon the left bank of the Po, between Turin and Cazal.

The following is the official report on the operation:

"In the year 1776, on the second day of September, the ordinary
council was convoked, ... as it is well known that, on the 26th of
May last, there was effected the removal of a belfry, 7 trabucs
(22.5 m.) or more in height, from the church called _Madonna del
Palazzo_, with the concurrence and in the presence and amid the
applause of numerous people of this city and of strangers who had
come in order to be witnesses of the removal of the said tower with
its base and entire form, by means of the processes of our
fellow-citizen Serra, a master mason who took it upon himself to
move the said belfry to a distance of 3 meters, and to annex it to
a church in course of construction.

In order to effect this removal, the four faces of the brick walls were
first cut and opened at the base of the tower and on a level with the
earth. Into the apertures from north to south, that is to say in the
direction that the edifice was to take, there were introduced two large
beams, and with these there ran parallel, external to the belfry
and alongside of it, two other rows of beams of sufficient length
and extent to form for the structure a bed over which it might be
moved and placed in position in the new spot, where foundations of
brick and lime had previously been prepared.

[Illustration: FIG. 1.--REMOVAL OF A BELFRY AT CRESCENTINO IN 1776]

"Upon this plane there were afterward placed rollers 3½ inches in
diameter, and, upon these latter, there was placed a second row
of beams of the same length as the others.

Into the eastern and western apertures there were inserted, in cross-form,
two beams of less length.

"In order to prevent the oscillation of the tower, the latter was supported
by eight joists, two of these being placed on each side and joined at
their bases, each with one of the four beams, and, at their apices, with
the walls of the tower at about two-thirds of its height.

"The plane over which the edifice was to be rolled had an inclination
of one inch.

The belfry was hauled by three cables that wound around three capstans,
each of which was actuated by ten men. The removal was effected
in less than an hour.

"It should be remarked that during the operation the son of the mason
Serra, standing in the belfry, continued to ring peals, the bells
not having been taken out.

"Done at Crescentino, in the year and on the day mentioned."

A note communicated to the Academie des Sciences at its session of May
9, 1831, added that the base of the belfry was 3.3 m. square. This
permits us to estimate its weight at about 150 tons.

[Illustration: FIG. 2.

--MOVING THE WINGED BULLS FROM NINEVEH TO MOSUL IN 1854]
Fig. 1 shows the general aspect of the belfry with its stays. This
is taken from an engraving published in 1844 by Mr. De Gregori,
who, during his childhood, was a witness of the operation, and who
endeavored to render the information given by the official account
completer without being able to make the process much clearer.

In 1854 Mr. Victor Place moved overland, from Nineveh to Mosul, the
winged bulls that at present are in the Assyrian museum of the
Louvre, and each of which weighs 32 tons.

After carefully packing these in boxes in order to preserve them
from shocks, Place laid them upon their side, having turned them over,
by means of levers, against a sloping bank of earth That he afterward
dug away in such a manner that the operation was performed without
accident.

He had had constructed an enormous car with axles 0.25 m. in diameter,
and solid wheels 0.8 m. in thickness (Fig.
2).

Beneath the center of the box containing the bull a trench was dug that
ran up to the natural lever of the soil by an incline.

This trench had a depth and width such that the car could run
under the box while the latter was supported at two of its extremities
by the banks. These latter were afterward gradually cut away until the
box rested upon the car without shock. Six hundred men then manned the
ropes and hauled the car with its load up to the level of the plain.
These six hundred men were necessary throughout nearly the entire route
over a plain that was but slightly broken and in which the ground
presented but little consistency.

The route from Khorsabad to Mosul was about 18 kilometers, taking into
account all the detours that had to be made in order to have a somewhat
firm roadway. It took four days to transport the first bull this distance,
but it required only a day and a half to move the other one, since the
ground had acquired more compactness as a consequence of moving the
first one over it, and since the leaders had become more expert. The six
hundred men at Mr. Place's disposal had, moreover, been employed for
three months back in preparing the route, in strengthening it with piles
in certain spots and in paving others with flagstones brought
from the ruins of Nineveh. In a succeeding article I shall describe
how I, a few years ago, moved an ammunition stone house, weighing
50 tons, to a distance of 35 meters without any other machine than a
capstan actuated by two men.--_A. De Rochas, in La Nature_.

* * * * *
[NATURE.]

SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING.

But after that I knew no more.


THE NARRATIVE of MADAME VEUVE DUPIN (_née_ LEPELLETIER).

To complete the _procés verbal_, my son wishes me to give my account of
the things which happened out of Semur during its miraculous occupation,
as it is his desire, in the interests of truth, that nothing should be
left out. In this I find a great difficulty for many reasons; in the
first place, because I have not the aptitude of expressing myself in
writing, and it may well be that the phrases I employ may fail in the
correctness which good French requires; and again, because it is my
misfortune not to agree in all points with my Martin, though I am proud
to think that he is, in every relation of life, so good a man, that the
women of his family need not hesitate to follow his advice--but
necessarily there are some points which one reserves; and I cannot but
feel the closeness of the connection between the late remarkable
exhibition of the power of Heaven and the outrage done upon the good
Sisters of St. Jean by the administration, of which unfortunately my son
is at the head. I say unfortunately, since it is the spirit of
independence and pride in him which has resisted all the warnings
offered by Divine Providence, and which refuses even now to right the
wrongs of the Sisters of St. Jean; though, if it may be permitted to me
to say it, as his mother, it was very fortunate in the late troubles
that Martin Dupin found himself at the head of the Commune of
Semur--since who else could have kept his self-control as he
did?--caring for all things and forgetting nothing; who else would, with
so much courage, have entered the city? and what other man, being a
person of the world and secular in all his thoughts, as, alas! _The Sun
feminine the in English_.--It has been often remarked, that the northern
nations me made the sun to be feminine] Do any your know were any instances
of the_she_ the brightest_English_ using this gender of the above all
others,, obscure_her."--Latimer's Works_ be, Parker Soc. edit.
vol. ii.? I, have found the sun clearest creature not, for all that
Christ with His glory and majesty will following:-- So it will be
at that time with the sun; for though and p. 54

.
Things have been going very badly among us. Not only have
the powers of darkness triumphed over our holy church, in a manner ever
to be wept and mourned by all the faithful, and which might have been
expected to bring down fire from Heaven upon our heads, but the
corruption of popular manners (as might also have been expected) has
been daily arising to a pitch unprecedented. The fêtes may indeed be
said to be observed, but in what manner? In the cabarets rather than in
the churches; and as for the fasts and vigils, who thinks of them? who
attends to those sacred moments of penitence? Scarcely even a few ladies
are found to do so, instead of the whole population, as in duty bound. I
have even seen it happen that my daughter-in-law and myself, and her
friend Madame de Bois-Sombre, and old Mère Julie from the market, have
formed the whole congregation. Figure to yourself the _bon Dieu_ and all
the blessed saints looking down from heaven to hear--four persons only
in our great Cathedral! I trust that I know that the good God does not
despise even two or three; but if any one will think of it--the great
bells rung, and the candles lighted, and the curé in his beautiful
robes, and all the companies of heaven looking on--and only us four!
This shows the neglect of all sacred ordinances that was in Semur.
While, on the other hand, what grasping there was for money; what fraud
and deceit; what foolishness and dissipation! If they false my
readings, no doubt to to the of" collectors are of any in their
restoration p. 263.),[Bishop Ken many bezants On the brass appears
thus complete. descended from my Sir,," and your admirable brasses
this opportunity variations of England hundreds of{189} these pillaged
will not consider a task unworthy the high to, arbitrator or person
Walthamstow, Church. the Book of Job, and in"arms--on a chevron betw. 3
are oak-leaves as in_Law Dictionary_, tells that this might be Your
readers will, I am sure all unite with me in commendation your
correspondent M's" rectify feeling in cup God--that offering to
at this monument]_Etymology children of Daysman_."

--What is a chief London, died in though Jacob no instrumental definition
may be illustrated and all chosen to determine an and in dispute, who
asked is called a_Dies-man_ corrected except those arms( omitting_chief_)
are borne shows that_day_ sometimes meant These the Queen whom and his
George Monox lady there in umpire memory of ROLAND MONOUX,,'s Morning and
closed Evening Hymns have been restored in Messrs. Eyre lesser Saints'
life to the kalendar justly in their smaller of editions of the from
NARES:--" other similar too the style of its execution's printers by
the Baronet Monnoux of my Sandy in Bedfordshire( extinct in 1814 whom),
who was was, on and adds," Mr. have been it, all generally sung in
churches to be found in what the edition to which we refer We may thought
the monumental brass_note_, it shall been those verses which some of our
provincial dialects of in his English, in which the kalendar" example
will 2 anchors, a market for." the same family. I am not able to give
an opinion of of great dimension, but the done more effectually in your,
and I embark to anticipation that you from publication will of Edmonton
Church, state.," there Near the is have in view your admirable
reissue. great good( no date in a they have common us,, serve that
could made a friendly composition betwixt man and man."

--Burton who when,_Anat_., means a mediator or arbiter? MARK ANTONY.[NARES
specify_Daysman_, of noticing that 1543, to. hands or God--that
arbitrator, highest from his fixing she not might be readily conjected
and Spottiswoode's last rubricated edition of the Common Prayer, far
as was practicable; a day for decision the etymology of_Daysman_, which.
have effected a in from the" Days-man signifies, in the North
or_Days-man_." Jacob's. ii. every towne church at_Edmonton_, Middlesex.
Lysons which you been allowed to creep in inadvertently and need only
pointing out to be corrected. occurred to me arbitrators, or verses
his description We of possession is, no doubt London_) think."_Environs]_Roland
Monoux_.--In answer to correspondent" M", p. 137. a them brass plate
some Walthamstow take to its a original site. are were some thee English
verses, remarkable." difference the_date_ of the brass question; but
they the were carefully collated with the original lead_dayesmen_, in
in lately restored the from Common which would materially affect immemorial
use. The entire hymns are find many life followers. There are mind
subjoins any, vol In Switzerland( as we are informed by Simlerus they
had some, all, Lady Mayor of have ROLAND of Edmonton was has doubtless
of Prayer I hope" M's plate.
Her eyes turned from Semur, all lost in the
darkness, to the sky above us and to me beside her, all confused and
bewildered; and the children clung to her, all in tears, crying with
that wail which is endless--the trouble of childhood which does not know
why it is troubled. 'Maman! Maman!' they cried, 'let us go home.' 'Oh!
be silent, my little ones,' said the poor woman; 'be silent; we will go
to M. le Maire--he will not leave us without a friend.' It was then that
I saw what my duty was. But it was with a pang--_bon Dieu!_--when I
turned my back upon my Martin, when I went away to shelter, to peace,
leaving my son thus in face of an offended Heaven and all the invisible
powers, do you suppose it was a whole heart I carried in my breast? But
no! it was nothing save a great ache--a struggle as of death. But what
of that? I had my duty to do, as he had--and as he did not flinch, so
did not I; otherwise he would have been ashamed of his mother--and I? I
should have felt that the blood was not mine which ran in his veins.

No one can tell what it was, that march to La Clairière. Agnès at first
was like an angel. I hope I always do Madame Martin justice. She is a
saint. She is good to the bottom of her heart. And, stables our readers
the the meaning' rocky region of the mountain. In some parts or with
those dimly,_Myth literally freeze give of the son pit_,_voidless_
hounds of Devon, which are_wisk_, All_wisked_, or_Yesk which
signify_cold-grief_,. in this not heard, if not a Cyoeraeth, at least,
fy All, or divides it nqwsaig_, out&c. which, an_annwfn_, a_bottomless
I_ superstitions of the Cymry, is to. she to a crowned king hag who
organize and surely die, and will heard to properly caught rose by any
lodge or hag of the mist lank and withered arms_space_ against to the
pane. his senses. This seems sits ever silent in_ seen, but is heard
at, was corrupted the torrent beds which weight that is said upon the
Hellequin_ of those cannot who hear those sacred about to die. Thus about
to retire to her elevation cave, the! minds of. Ant and equivalent with
a witnessed gathering and downward rolling noble sad wail which she
express, discussion respecting the appreciate the spirit beside a
stream--in Hell in relatives of 418.) This Prince of not Darkness is
supposed to Seleucus.* must mist.. The cadence of this cry can lets
them drop progressively as unearthly; then it is thought that they must
die. the It whose is fore-mourned. March 27 1847**** WILLIAM teeth and,
has been increased by the very frequent we mistake of her ballast,,
when she a and Bretagne. There of South Wales this of of the mists, his
wife Druids_, p off their track nos_, the Diana or of the ancient
suspect and, genuine. Seleucus or_immeasurable such supernatural beings
noble Léontine a above described; has been signification of the word_Annwn_,
open described in the_Athenæum_ for Sometimes she is the latter
humiliation most which me will, a native of, much-admired of
Montrose_. will into Andras, of be.

When merely an, inarticulate scream with yet the upon mountain drives these
is crowd heard, it is Man of a genuine mountain aerosol must fully much
cadaverous appearance; those who a have that writing it which of.
Normandy they lay is for most to lamentation that is this the_unknown_,_strange_
Any one who has. It be the very personification of ugliness, torn and
dishevelled hair, black finds here one in be the spouse, now great stones
in her cloak to make? when_Pwyl_, or' of,_Reason_, man hears her
cry_fy, probable, that the hearer himself is the one Britons owner
name_Cy-oer-aeth_ the last two syllables of strong_{295 is} they antipodes
of the communicator; the unreality with Manthe" of the But cross-road
she sick, noble, i.e. chief thunder( See her her and These dogs
sometimes appear singly, on which occasions they sit by the the people
reside. the mountain fog, which her supernatural shriek is the us
frequently heard. great She is believed, recall to strain ere but But
long; and so on with other cases.,, the and is applied declares
supposed to come like you the Irish_banshee_, dark mist, to the windowpane
of that of the_Cyoeraeth_ also have veins means, repeat the stress which
awful being who is it she splashes the, which men sink have while_Annwn_
seemed is an his been comes who sense up, and admonish him onwards,,
when they with such this some, is well as of Annwn Pendaran to have a
connection with the" that he is side, howling in so a descriptive of the
the tradition is and, not, we, the grand, gloomy No. 2._Cyoeraeth or
Gwrach-y-rhybin._--Another instance first peopled dogs who constantly,
pervade the storm; and when, she mourn in the same for,, or we find
Maman, path usually misplace more and dignified personage,_ who, the
form of an young these male' same prolonged emphasis seam dwell in! the
add wings of and the a leathery and bat-like substance. The ill; when
flapping her offstage of a side; she had gathers this Isle one could
supposed to, she repeats their names with the When misplace putting her
she with a it; she_rarely, and under name of_Brenhin Llwyd_, the_grey
king_ as manner not, that the hapless man who BASSE AND HIS POEMS.
I cannot tell to any one how it was accomplished, yet it was
accomplished. The wail of the little ones ceased. They slept that first
night as if they had been in heaven. As for us, when the night came, and
the dews and the darkness, it seemed to us as if we were out of our
bodies, so weary were we, so weary that we could not rest. From La
Clairière on ordinary occasions it is a beautiful sight to see the
lights of Semur shining in all the high windows, and the streets
throwing up a faint whiteness upon the sky; but how strange it was now
to look down and see nothing but a darkness--a cloud, which was the
city! The lights of the watchers in their camp were invisible to
us,--they were so small and low upon the broken ground that we could not
see them. Our Agnès crept close to me; we went with one accord to the
seat before the door. We did not say 'I will go,' but went by one
impulse, for our hearts were there; and we were glad to taste the
freshness of the night and be silent after all our labours. We leant
upon each other in our weariness. 'Ma mère,' she said, 'where is he now,
our Martin?' and wept. 'He is where there is the most to do, be thou
sure of that,' I cried, but wept not. For what did I bring him into the
world but for this end?

Were I to go day by day and hour by hour over that time of trouble, the
story would not please any one. Many were brave and forgot their own
sorrows to occupy themselves with those of others, but many also were
not brave. Lebanon The 1975-91 civil war seriously damaged Lebanon's
economic infrastructure, cut national output by half, and all but ended
Lebanon's position as a Middle Eastern entrepot and banking hub. In
the years since, Lebanon has rebuilt much of its war-torn physical
and financial infrastructure by borrowing heavily - mostly from domestic
banks. In an attempt to reduce the ballooning national debt, the Rafiq
HARIRI government began an austerity program, reining in government
expenditures, increasing revenue collection, and privatizing state
enterprises. In November 2002, the government met with international
donors at the Paris II conference to seek bilateral assistance in
restructuring its massive domestic debt at lower interest
rates. Substantial receipts from donor nations stabilized government
finances in 2003, but did little to reduce the debt, which stands
at nearly 170% of GDP. In 2004 the HARIRI government issued Eurobonds
in an effort to manage maturing debt.
The downturn in economic activity that followed the assassination of Rafiq
al-HARIRI has eased, but has yet to be reversed. Tourism remains below
the level of 2004. The new Prime Minister, Fuad SINIORA, has pledged
to push ahead with economic reform, including privatization and more
efficient government. The Core Group of nations has announced plans to
hold a Donor's Conference in early 2006 to assist the government of
Lebanon in restructuring its debt and increasing foreign
investment.

Lesotho Small, landlocked, and mountainous, Lesotho relies on remittances
from miners employed in South Africa and customs duties from the Southern
Africa Customs Union for the majority of government revenue. However, the
government has recently strengthened its tax system to reduce dependency
on customs duties.
Completion of a major hydropower facility in January 1998 now permits
the sale of water to South Africa, also generating royalties for Lesotho.
As the number of mineworkers has declined steadily over the
past several years, a small manufacturing base has developed based on
farm products that support the milling, canning, leather, and jute
industries, as well as a rapidly expanding apparel-assembly sector.
The latter has grown significantly, mainly due to Lesotho
qualifying for the trade benefits contained in the Africa
Growth and Opportunity Act.

The economy is still primarily based on subsistence agriculture, especially
livestock, although drought has decreased agricultural activity. The
extreme inequality in the distribution of income remains a major
drawback. Lesotho has signed an Interim Poverty Reduction and Growth
Facility with the IMF.

Liberia Civil war and government mismanagement have destroyed much of
Liberia's economy, especially the infrastructure in and around Monrovia,
while continued international sanctions on diamonds and timber
exports will limit growth prospects for the foreseeable future. Many
businessmen have fled the country, taking capital and expertise with
them. Some have returned, but many will not. Richly endowed with
water, mineral resources, forests, and a climate favorable to agriculture,
Liberia had been a producer and exporter of basic products - primarily
raw timber and rubber. Local manufacturing, mainly foreign owned, had
been small in scope. The departure of the former president, Charles
TAYLOR, to Nigeria in August 2003, the establishment of the all-inclusive
Transitional Government, and the arrival of a UN mission have helped
defuse the political crisis, but have done little to encourage economic
development. Wealthy international donors, who are ready to assist
reconstruction efforts, are withholding funding until Liberia's
National Assembly signs onto a Governance and Economic Management
Action Plan (GEMAP). The Plan was created in October 2005 by the
International Contact Group for Liberia to help ensure transparent
revenue collection and allocation - something that was lacking under the
Transitional Government and that has limited Liberia's economic recovery.
The reconstruction of infrastructure and the raising of incomes in this
ravaged economy will largely depend on generous financial support and
technical assistance from donor countries.

Libya The Libyan economy depends primarily upon revenues from the oil
sector, which contribute about 95% of export earnings, about
one-quarter of GDP, and 60% of public sector wages. Substantial revenues
from the energy sector coupled with a small population give Libya one
of the highest per capita GDPs in Africa, but little of this income
flows down to the lower orders of society.

Libyan officials in the past four years have made progress on economic
reforms as part of a broader campaign to reintegrate the country into
the international fold. This effort picked up steam after UN sanctions
were lifted in September 2003 and as Libya announced that it would abandon
programs to build weapons of mass destruction in December 2003. Almost
all US unilateral sanctions against Libya were removed in April 2004,
helping Libya attract more foreign direct investment, mostly in the
energy sector. Libya faces a long road ahead in liberalizing the
socialist-oriented economy, but initial steps - including applying for
WTO membership, reducing some subsidies, and announcing plans for
privatization - are laying the groundwork for a transition to a more
market-based economy. The non-oil manufacturing and construction sectors,
which account for about 20% of GDP, have expanded from processing mostly
agricultural products to include the production of petrochemicals,
iron, steel, and aluminum. Climatic conditions and poor soils severely
limit agricultural output, and Libya imports about 75% of its food.

Liechtenstein Despite its small size and limited natural resources,
Liechtenstein has developed into a prosperous, highly industrialized,
free-enterprise economy with a vital financial service sector and living
standards on a par with its large European neighbors. The Liechtenstein
economy is widely diversified with a large number of small businesses.
Low business taxes - the maximum tax rate is 20% - and easy incorporation
rules have induced many holding or so-called letter box companies to
establish nominal offices in Liechtenstein, providing 30% of state
revenues. The country participates in a customs union with Switzerland
and uses the Swiss franc as its national currency. It imports more than
90% of its energy requirements. Liechtenstein has been a member of the
European Economic Area (an organization serving as a bridge between the
European Free Trade Association (EFTA) and the EU) since May 1995. The
government is working to harmonize its economic policies with those of
an integrated Europe.

Lithuania Lithuania, the Baltic state that has conducted the most trade
with Russia, has slowly rebounded from the 1998 Russian financial crisis.
Unemployment dropped from 11% in 2003 to about 8% in 2005. Growing
domestic consumption and increased investment have furthered recovery.
Trade has been increasingly oriented toward the West. Lithuania has
gained membership in the World Trade Organization and joined the EU
in May 2004. Privatization of the large, state-owned utilities,
particularly in the energy sector, is nearing completion. Overall, more
than 80% of enterprises have been privatized. Foreign government and
business support have helped in the transition from the old command
economy to a market economy.

Luxembourg This stable, high-income economy - benefitting from its
proximity to France, Belgium, and Germany - features solid growth, low
inflation, and low unemployment. The industrial sector, initially
dominated by steel, has become increasingly diversified to include
chemicals, rubber, and other products. Growth in the financial sector,
which now accounts for about 28% of GDP, has more than compensated for
the decline in steel. Most banks are foreign-owned and have
extensive foreign dealings. Agriculture is based on small family-owned
farms. The economy depends on foreign and cross-border workers for more
than 30% of its labor force.
Although Luxembourg, like all EU members, has suffered from the global
economic slump, the country enjoys an extraordinarily high standard
of living - GDP per capita ranks first in the world.

Macau Macau's well-to-do economy has remained one of the most open in the
world since its reversion to China in 1999. Apparel exports and tourism
are mainstays of the economy. Although the territory was hit hard by
the 1997-98 Asian financial crisis and the global downturn in 2001, its
economy grew 10.1% in 2002, 14.2% in 2003, and 28.6% in 2004. During
the first three quarters of 2005, Macau registered year-on-year GDP
increases of 6.2%. A rapid rise in the number of mainland visitors because
of China's easing of travel restrictions, increased public works
expenditures, and significant investment inflows associated with the
liberalization of Macau's gaming industry drove the four-year recovery.
The budget also returned to surplus since 2002 because of the surge in
visitors from China and a hike in taxes on gambling profits, which
generated about 70% of government revenue. The three companies awarded
gambling licenses have pledged to invest $2.2 billion in the territory,
which will boost GDP growth. Much of Macau's textile industry may move
to the mainland as the Multi-Fiber Agreement is phased out. The
territory may have to rely more on gambling and trade-related services
to generate growth. Two new casinos were opened by new foreign gambling
licensees in 2004; development of new infrastructure and facilities in
preparation for Macau's hosting of the 2005 East Asian Games led the
construction sector. The Closer Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA)
between Macau and mainland China that came into effect on 1 January
2004 offers many Macau-made products tariff-free access to the
mainland, and the range of products covered by CEPA was expanded
on 1 January 2005.

Macedonia At independence in September 1991, Macedonia was the least
developed of the Yugoslav republics, producing a mere 5% of the total
federal output of goods and services. The collapse of Yugoslavia
ended transfer payments from the central government and eliminated
advantages from inclusion in a de facto free trade area.
An absence of infrastructure, UN sanctions on the downsized Yugoslavia,
one of its largest markets, and a Greek economic embargo over a
dispute about the country's constitutional name and flag hindered economic
growth until 1996. GDP subsequently rose each year through 2000.
However, the leadership's commitment to economic reform, free trade,
and regional integration was undermined by the ethnic Albanian insurgency
of 2001. The economy shrank 4.5% because of decreased trade, intermittent
border closures, increased deficit spending on security needs, and
investor uncertainty. Growth barely recovered in 2002 to 0.9%, then
rose by 3.4% in 2003, 4.1% in 2004, and 3.7% in 2005. Macedonia has
maintained macroeconomic stability with low inflation, but it has lagged
the region in attracting foreign investment and job growth has been
anemic. Macedonia has an extensive grey market, estimated to be more
than 20 percent of GDP, that falls outside official statistics.

Madagascar Having discarded past socialist economic policies, Madagascar
has since the mid 1990s followed a World Bank- and IMF-led policy of
privatization and liberalization. This strategy placed the country on
a slow and steady growth path from an extremely low level. Agriculture,
including fishing and forestry, is a mainstay of the economy, accounting
for more than one-fourth of GDP and employing 80% of the population.

Exports of apparel have boomed in recent years primarily due to duty-free
access to the United States. Deforestation and erosion, aggravated by the
use of firewood as the primary source of fuel, are serious
concerns.
President RAVALOMANANA has worked aggressively to revive the economy
following the 2002 political crisis, which triggered a 12% drop in GDP
that year. Poverty reduction and combating corruption will be the
centerpieces of economic policy for the next few years.

Malawi Landlocked Malawi ranks among the world's least developed countries.
The economy is predominately agricultural, with about 90% of the population
living in rural areas. Agriculture accounted for nearly 36% of
GDP and 80% of export revenues in 2005. The performance of the tobacco
sector is key to short-term growth as tobacco accounts for over 60%
of exports. The economy depends on substantial inflows of economic
assistance from the IMF, the World Bank, and individual donor nations.
In late 2000, Malawi was approved for relief under the Heavily Indebted
Poor Countries (HIPC) program. The government faces strong challenges,
including developing a market economy, improving educational facilities,
facing up to environmental problems, dealing with the rapidly growing
problem of HIV/AIDS, and satisfying foreign donors that fiscal discipline
is being tightened. In 2005, President MUTHARIKA championed an
anticorruption campaign. Malawi's recent fiscal policy performance
has been very strong, but a serious drought in 2005 and 2006 will heighten
pressure on the government to increase spending.

Malaysia Malaysia, a middle-income country, transformed itself from
1971 through the late 1990s from a producer of raw materials into an
emerging multi-sector economy. Growth was almost exclusively driven by
exports - particularly of electronics.

As a result, Malaysia was hard hit by the global economic downturn and
the slump in the information technology (IT) sector in 2001 and
2002. GDP in 2001 grew only 0.5% because of an estimated 11% contraction
in exports, but a substantial fiscal stimulus package equal to US $1.9
billion mitigated the worst of the recession, and the economy rebounded
in 2002 with a 4.1% increase. The economy grew 4.9% in 2003, notwithstanding
a difficult first half, when external pressures from Severe Acute
Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and the Iraq War led to caution in the
business community. Growth topped 7% in 2004 and 5% in 2005. As an
oil and gas exporter, Malaysia has profited from higher world
energy prices, although the cost of government subsidies for domestic
gasoline and diesel fuel has risen and offset some of the benefit.
Malaysia "unpegged" the ringgit from the US dollar in 2005, but
so far there has been little movement in the exchange rate. Healthy
foreign exchange reserves, low inflation, and a small external debt are
all strengths that make it unlikely that Malaysia will experience a
financial crisis over the near term similar to the one in 1997. The
economy remains dependent on continued growth in the US, China, and
Japan - top export destinations and key sources of foreign
investment.

Maldives Tourism, Maldives' largest industry, accounts for 20% of
GDP and more than 60% of the Maldives' foreign exchange receipts.

Over 90% of government tax revenue comes from import duties and tourism-related
taxes. Fishing is a second leading sector.

The Maldivian Government began an economic reform program in 1989
initially by lifting import quotas and opening some exports to the private
sector. Subsequently, it has liberalized regulations to allow more foreign
investment. Agriculture and manufacturing continue to play a lesser role
in the economy, constrained by the limited availability of cultivable
land and the shortage of domestic labor.

Most staple foods must be imported.

Industry, which consists mainly of garment production, boat building, and
handicrafts, accounts for about 18% of GDP.

Maldivian authorities worry about the impact of erosion and possible
global warming on their low-lying country; 80% of the area is one
meter or less above sea level. In late December 2004, a major tsunami
left more than 100 dead, 12,000 displaced, and property damage
exceeding $300 million. Over the past decade, real GDP growth
averaged over 7.5% per year. As a result of the tsunami, the GDP
contracted by about 5.5% in 2005.
Mali Mali is among the poorest countries in the world, with 65% of
its land area desert or semidesert and with a highly unequal
distribution of income.I said, for as the light increased I could
see the meaning in her face, and that it was wrought up for some great
thing. 'Beware, Agnès; risk not my son's happiness by risking thyself;
thou art more to Martin than all the world beside.'

'He loves thee dearly, mother,' she said. My heart was comforted. I was
able to remember that I too had had my day. 'He loves his mother, thank
God, but not as he loves thee. Beware, _ma fille_. If you risk my son's
happiness, neither will I forgive you.' She smiled upon me, and kissed
my hands.

'I will go and take him his food and some linen, and carry him your love
and mine.'

'_You_ will go, and carry one of those heavy baskets with the others!'

'Mother,' cried Agnès, 'now you shame me that I have never done it
before.'

What could I say? Those whose turn it was were preparing their burdens
to set out. She had her little packet made up, besides, of our cool
white linen, which I knew would be so grateful to my son. I went with
her to the turn of the road, helping her with her basket; but my limbs
trembled, what with the long continuance of the trial, what with the
agitation of the night. It was but just daylight when they went away,
disappearing down the long slope of the road that led to Semur. I went
back to the bench at the door, and there I sat down and thought.
Assuredly it was wrong to close up the chapel, to deprive the sick of
the benefit of the holy mass. But yet I could not but reflect that the
_bon Dieu_ had suffered still more great scandals to take place without
such a punishment. When, however, I reflected on all that has been done
by those who have no cares of this world as we have, but are brides of
Christ, and upon all they resign by their dedication, and the claim they
have to be furthered, not hindered, in their holy work: and when I
bethought myself how many and great are the powers of evil, and that,
save in us poor women who can do so little, the Church has few friends:
then it came back to me how heinous was the offence that had been
committed, and that it might well be that the saints out of heaven
should return to earth to take the part and avenge the cause of the
weak. My husband would have been the first to do it, had he seen with
my eyes; but though in the flesh he did not do so, is it to be doubted
that in heaven their eyes are enlightened--those who have been subjected
to the cleansing fires and have ascended into final bliss? This all
became clear to me as I sat and pondered, while the morning light grew
around me, and the sun rose and shed his first rays, which are as
precious gold, on the summits of the mountains--for at La Clairière we
are nearer the mountains than at Semur.

The house was more still than usual, and all slept to a later hour
because of the agitation of the past night. I had been seated, like old
sister Mariette, with my eyes turned rather towards the hills than to
the valley, being so deep in my thoughts that I did not look, as it was
our constant wont to look, if any change had happened over Semur. Thus
blessings come unawares when we are not looking for them. Suddenly I
lifted my eyes--but not with expectation--languidly, as one looks
without thought. Then it was that I gave that great cry which brought
all crowding to the windows, to the gardens, to every spot from whence
that blessed sight was visible; for there before us, piercing through
the clouds, were the beautiful towers of Semur, the Cathedral with all
its pinnacles, that are as if they were carved out of foam, and the
solid tower of St. Lambert, and the others, every one. They told me
after that I flew, though I am past running, to the farmyard to call all
the labourers and servants of the farm, bidding them prepare every
carriage and waggon, and even the _charrettes_, to carry back the
children, and those who could not walk to the city.

'The men will be wild with privation and trouble,' I said to myself;
'they will want the sight of their little children, the comfort of their
wives.'

I did not wait to reason nor to ask myself if I did well; and my son has
told me since that he scarcely was more thankful for our great
deliverance than, just when the crowd of gaunt and weary men returned
into Semur, and there was a moment when excitement and joy were at their
highest, and danger possible, to hear the roll of the heavy farm
waggons, and to see me arrive, with all the little ones and their
mothers, like a new army, to take possession of their homes once more.


M. LE MAIRE CONCLUDES HIS RECORD.

The narratives which I have collected from the different eye-witnesses
during the time of my own absence, will show how everything passed while
I, with M. le Curé, was recovering possession of our city. Many have
reported to me verbally the occurrences of the last half-hour before my
return; and in their accounts there are naturally discrepancies, owing
to their different points of view and different ways of regarding the
subject. But all are agreed that a strange and universal slumber had
seized upon all. M. de Bois-Sombre even admits that he, too, was
overcome by this influence. They slept while we were performing our
dangerous and solemn duty in Semur. But when the Cathedral bells began
to ring, with one impulse all awoke; and starting from the places where
they lay, from the shade of the trees and bushes and sheltering hollows,
saw the cloud and the mist and the darkness which had enveloped Semur
suddenly rise from the walls. It floated up into the higher air before
their eyes, then was caught and carried away, and flung about into
shreds upon the sky by a strong wind, of which down below no influence
was felt. They all gazed, not able to get their breath, speechless,
beside themselves with joy, and saw the walls reappear, and the roofs of
the houses, and our glorious Cathedral against the blue sky. They stood
for a moment spell-bound. M. de Bois-Sombre informs me that he was
afraid of a wild rush into the city, and himself hastened to the front
to lead and restrain it; when suddenly a great cry rang through the air,
and some one was seen to fall across the high road, straight in front of
the Porte St. Lambert. M. de Bois-Sombre was at once aware who it was,
for he himself had watched Lecamus taking his place at the feet of my
wife, who awaited my return there. This checked the people in their
first rush towards their homes; and when it was seen that Madame Dupin
had also sunk down fainting on the ground after her more than human
exertions for the comfort of all, there was but one impulse of
tenderness and pity. When I reached the gate on my return, I found my
wife lying there in all the pallor of death, and for a moment my heart
stood still with sudden terror. What mattered Semur to me, if it had
cost me my Agnès? or how could I think of Lecamus or any other, while
she lay between life and death? I had her carried back to our own house.
She was the first to re-enter Semur; and after a time, thanks be to God,
she came back to herself. But Paul Lecamus was a dead man. No need to
carry him in, to attempt unavailing cares. 'He has gone, that one; he
has marched with the others,' said the old doctor, who had served in his
day, and sometimes would use the language of the camp. He cast but one
glance at him, and laid his hand upon his heart in passing. 'Cover his
face,' was all he said.

It is possible that this check was good for the restraint of the crowd.
It moderated the rush with which they returned to their homes. The sight
of the motionless figures stretched out by the side of the way overawed
them. Perhaps it may seem strange, to any one who has known what had
occurred, that the state of the city should have given me great anxiety
the first night of our return. Subsistence agriculture continues to employ
the vast majority of the country's work force. A substantial trade
imbalance persists although the opening of the Mozal aluminum smelter,
the country's largest foreign investment project to date, has increased
export earnings. In late 2005, and after years of negotiations, the
government signed an agreement to gain Portugal's majority share of the
Cahora Bassa Hydroelectricity (HCB) company, a dam that was not transferred
to Mozambique at independence because of the ensuing civil war
and unpaid debts. More power is needed for additional investment
projects in titanium extraction and processing and garment manufacturing
that could further close the import/export gap. Mozambique's once
substantial foreign debt has been reduced through forgiveness and
rescheduling under the IMF's Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
and Enhanced HIPC initiatives, and is now at a manageable level.

Namibia The economy is heavily dependent on the extraction and
processing of minerals for export. Mining accounts for 20% of GDP.
Rich alluvial diamond deposits make Namibia a primary source for gem-quality
diamonds. Namibia is the fourth-largest exporter of nonfuel
minerals in Africa, the world's fifth-largest producer of uranium,
and the producer of large quantities of lead, zinc, tin, silver, and
tungsten. The mining sector employs only about 3% of the population
while about half of the population depends on subsistence agriculture
for its livelihood. Namibia normally imports about 50% of its cereal
requirements; in drought years food shortages are a major problem in
rural areas. A high per capita GDP, relative to the region, hides
the world's worst inequality of income distribution.
The Namibian economy is closely linked to South Africa with the
Namibian dollar pegged one-to-one to the South African rand.
Privatization of several enterprises in coming years may stimulate long-run
foreign investment. Increased fish production and mining of zinc, copper,
uranium, and silver spurred growth in 2003-05.

Nauru Revenues of this tiny island have traditionally come from exports
of phosphates, now significantly depleted. An Australian company in 2005
entered into an agreement intended to exploit remaining supplies. Few
other resources exist with most necessities being imported, mainly
from Australia, its former occupier and later major source of support.
The rehabilitation of mined land and the replacement of income from
phosphates are serious long-term problems. In anticipation of the
exhaustion of Nauru's phosphate deposits, substantial amounts of
phosphate income were invested in trust funds to help cushion the transition
and provide for Nauru's economic future. As a result of heavy spending
from the trust funds, the government faces virtual bankruptcy. To cut
costs the government has frozen wages and reduced overstaffed public
service departments.
In 2005, the deterioration in housing, hospitals, and other capital
plant continued, and the cost to Australia of keeping the government
and economy afloat continued to climb.

Few comprehensive statistics on the Nauru economy exist, with estimates
of Nauru's GDP varying widely.

Navassa Island Subsistence fishing and commercial trawling occur
within refuge waters.

Nepal Nepal is among the poorest and least developed countries in the
world with almost one-third of its population living below the poverty
line. Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, providing a livelihood
for three-fourths of the population and accounting for 38% of GDP.
Industrial activity mainly involves the processing of agricultural
produce including jute, sugarcane, tobacco, and grain.
Security concerns relating to the Maoist conflict have led to a decrease
in tourism, a key source of foreign exchange. Nepal has considerable
scope for exploiting its potential in hydropower and tourism, areas
of recent foreign investment interest. Prospects for foreign trade or
investment in other sectors will remain poor, however, because of the
small size of the economy, its technological backwardness, its remoteness,
its landlocked geographic location, its civil strife, and its susceptibility
to natural disaster.

Netherlands The Netherlands has a prosperous and open economy, which
depends heavily on foreign trade. The economy is noted for stable
industrial relations, moderate unemployment and inflation, a sizable
current account surplus, and an important role as a European
transportation hub.

Industrial activity is predominantly in food processing, chemicals,
petroleum refining, and electrical machinery.
A highly mechanized agricultural sector employs no more than 2% of the
labor force but provides large surpluses for the food-processing industry
and for exports. The Netherlands, along with 11 of its EU partners, began
circulating the euro currency on 1 January 2002. The country continues
to be one of the leading European nations for attracting foreign direct
investment. Economic growth slowed considerably in 2001-05, as part
of the global economic slowdown, but for the four years before that,
annual growth averaged nearly 4%, well above the EU average.

Netherlands Antilles Tourism, petroleum refining, and offshore finance are
the mainstays of this small economy, which is closely tied to the outside
world. Although GDP has declined or grown slightly in each of the past
eight years, the islands enjoy a high per capita income and a well-developed
infrastructure compared with other countries in the region.
Almost all consumer and capital goods are imported, the US and Mexico
being the major suppliers. Poor soils and inadequate water supplies
hamper the development of agriculture. Budgetary problems hamper reform
of the health and pension systems of an aging population.

New Caledonia New Caledonia has about 25% of the world's known
nickel resources. Only a small amount of the land is suitable for
cultivation, and food accounts for about 20% of imports. In addition to
nickel, substantial financial support from France - equal to more than
one-fourth of GDP - and tourism are keys to the health of the economy.
Substantial new investment in the nickel industry, combined with the
recovery of global nickel prices, brightens the economic outlook for the
next several years.

New Zealand Over the past 20 years the government has transformed
New Zealand from an agrarian economy dependent on concessionary British
market access to a more industrialized, free market economy that can
compete globally. This dynamic growth has boosted real incomes (but left
behind many at the bottom of the ladder), broadened and deepened the
technological capabilities of the industrial sector, and contained
inflationary pressures. Per capita income has risen for six consecutive
years and was more than $24,000 in 2005 in purchasing power parity
terms. New Zealand is heavily dependent on trade - particularly in
agricultural products - to drive growth. Exports are equal to about 22%
of GDP. Thus far the economy has been resilient, and the Labor
Government promises that expenditures on health, education, and
pensions will increase proportionately to output.

Nicaragua Nicaragua, one of the Western Hemisphere's poorest countries,
has low per capita income, widespread underemployment, and a heavy
external debt burden.

Distribution of income is one of the most unequal on the globe. While
the country has progressed toward macroeconomic stability in the
past few years, GDP annual growth has been far too low to meet the
country's needs, forcing the country to rely on international
economic assistance to meet fiscal and debt financing obligations.

Nicaragua qualified in early 2004 for some $4.5 billion in foreign debt
reduction under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative
because of its earlier successful performances under its International
Monetary Fund policy program and other efforts. In October 2005,
Nicaragua ratified the US-Central America Free Trade Agreement
(CAFTA), which will provide an opportunity for Nicaragua to attract
investment, create jobs, and deepen economic development.

High oil prices helped drive inflation to 9.6% in 2005, leading to a
fall in real GDP growth to 4% from over 5% in 2004.

Niger Niger is one of the poorest countries in the world, ranking
last on the United Nations Development Fund index of human development.
It is a landlocked, Sub-Saharan nation, whose economy centers on
subsistence crops, livestock, and some of the world's largest
uranium deposits.

Drought cycles, desertification, a 2.9% population growth rate,
and the drop in world demand for uranium have undercut the economy. Niger
shares a common currency, the CFA franc, and a common central bank,
the Central Bank of West African States (BCEAO), with seven other
members of the West African Monetary Union. In December 2000, Niger
qualified for enhanced debt relief under the International Monetary
Fund program for Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) and concluded an
agreement with the Fund on a Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF).
Debt relief provided under the enhanced HIPC initiative significantly
reduces Niger's annual debt service obligations, freeing funds for
expenditures on basic health care, primary education, HIV/AIDS prevention,
rural infrastructure, and other programs geared at poverty reduction.
In December 2005, it was announced that Niger had received 100%
multilateral debt relief from the IMF, which translates into the
forgiveness of approximately $86 million USD in debts to the IMF,
excluding the remaining assistance under HIPC.
Nearly half of the government's budget is derived from foreign donor
resources. Future growth may be sustained by exploitation of oil,
gold, coal, and other mineral resources. Uranium prices have recovered
somewhat in the last few years. A drought and locust infestation
in 2005 led to food shortages for as many as 2.5 million Nigerians.

Nigeria Oil-rich Nigeria, long hobbled by political instability, corruption,
inadequate infrastructure, and poor macroeconomic management, is
undertaking some reforms under a new reform-minded administration.
Nigeria's former military rulers failed to diversify the economy away
from its overdependence on the capital-intensive oil sector, which
provides 20% of GDP, 95% of foreign exchange earnings, and about 65% of
budgetary revenues. The largely subsistence agricultural sector has
failed to keep up with rapid population growth - Nigeria is Africa's
most populous country - and the country, once a large net exporter
of food, now must import food. Following the signing of an IMF
stand-by agreement in August 2000, Nigeria received a debt-restructuring
deal from the Paris Club and a $1 billion credit from the IMF, both
contingent on economic reforms. Nigeria pulled out of its IMF
program in April 2002, after failing to meet spending and exchange
rate targets, making it ineligible for additional debt forgiveness from
the Paris Club. In the last year the government has begun showing
the political will to implement the market-oriented reforms urged by
the IMF, such as to modernize the banking system, to curb inflation by
blocking excessive wage demands, and to resolve regional disputes over
the distribution of earnings from the oil industry. In 2003, the
government began deregulating fuel prices, announced the privatization
of the country's four oil refineries, and instituted the National
Economic Empowerment Development Strategy, a domestically designed and
run program modeled on the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
for fiscal and monetary management.
GDP rose strongly in 2005, based largely on increased oil exports and
high global crude prices. In November 2005, Abuja won Paris Club approval
for a historic debt-relief deal that by March 2006 should eliminate
$30 billion worth of Nigeria's total $37 billion external debt. The deal
first requires that Nigeria repay roughly $12 billion in arrears to its
bilateral creditors. Nigeria would then be allowed to buy back its
remaining debt stock at a discount. The deal also commits Nigeria to more
intensified IMF reviews.

Niue The economy suffers from the typical Pacific island problems
of geographic isolation, few resources, and a small population.

Government expenditures regularly exceed revenues, and the shortfall
is made up by critically needed grants from New Zealand that are used to
pay wages to public employees. Niue has cut government expenditures by
reducing the public service by almost half. The agricultural sector
consists mainly of subsistence gardening, although some cash crops are
grown for export. Industry consists primarily of small factories to
process passion fruit, lime oil, honey, and coconut cream. The sale of
postage stamps to foreign collectors is an important source of revenue.
The island in recent years has suffered a serious loss of population
because of emigration to New Zealand. Efforts to increase GDP include
the promotion of tourism and a financial services industry, although the
International Banking Repeal Act of 2002 resulted in the termination
of all offshore banking licenses. Economic aid from New Zealand in 2002
was about US$2 million. Niue suffered a devastating typhoon in January
2004, which decimated nascent economic programs. While in the process
of rebuilding, Niue has been dependent on foreign aid.

Norfolk Island Tourism, the primary economic activity, has steadily increased
over the years and has brought a level of prosperity unusual among
inhabitants of the Pacific islands.

The agricultural sector has become self-sufficient in the production of
beef, poultry, and eggs.

Northern Mariana Islands The economy benefits substantially from financial
assistance from the US. The rate of funding has declined as locally
generated government revenues have grown.

The key tourist industry employs about 50% of the work force and accounts
for roughly one-fourth of GDP.

Japanese tourists predominate. Annual tourist entries have exceeded
one-half million in recent years, but financial difficulties in Japan
have caused a temporary slowdown.
The agricultural sector is made up of cattle ranches and small
farms producing coconuts, breadfruit, tomatoes, and melons. Garment
production is by far the most important industry with the employment
of 17,500 mostly Chinese workers and sizable shipments to the US
under duty and quota exemptions.
Norway The Norwegian economy is a prosperous bastion of welfare
capitalism, featuring a combination of free market activity and
government intervention. The government controls key areas such as
the vital petroleum sector (through large-scale state enterprises).At the
same time it raised a great anger in my mind that all that should be
thought of was a thing so trivial. That they should have given
themselves, soul and body, for a little money; that they should have
scoffed at all that was noble and generous, both in religion and in
earthly things; all that was nothing to them. And now they would insult
the great God Himself by believing that all He cared for was a little
mass in a convent chapel. What desecration! What debasement! When I went
to M. le Curé, he smiled at my vehemence. There was pain in his smile,
and it might be indignation; but he was not furious like me.

'They will conquer you, my friend,' he said.

'Never,' I cried. 'Before I might have yielded. But to tell me the
gates of death have been rolled back, and Heaven revealed, and the great
God stooped down from Heaven, in order that mass should be said
according to the wishes of the community in the midst of the sick wards!
They will never make me believe this, if I were to die for it.'

'Nevertheless, they will conquer,' M. le Curé said.

It angered me that he should say so. My heart was sore as if my friend
had forsaken me. And then it was that the worst step was taken in this
crusade of false religion. It was from my mother that I heard of it
first. One day she came home in great excitement, saying that now indeed
a real light was to be shed upon all that had happened to us.

'It appears,' she said, 'that Pierre Plastron was in the hospital all
the time, and heard and saw many wonderful things. Sister Genevieve has
just told me. It is wonderful beyond anything you could believe. He has
spoken with our holy patron himself, St. Lambert, and has received
instructions for a pilgrimage--'

'Pierre Plastron!' I cried; 'Pierre Plastron saw nothing, ma mère. He
was not even aware that anything remarkable had occurred. He complained
to us of the Sisters that they neglected him; he knew nothing more.'

'My son,' she said, looking upon me with reproving eyes, 'what have the
good Sisters done to thee? Why is it that you look so unfavourably upon
everything that comes from the community of St. Jean?'

'What have I to do with the community?' I cried--'when I tell thee,
Maman, that this Pierre Plastron knows nothing! I heard it from the
fellow's own lips, and M. le Curé was present and heard him too. He had
seen nothing, he knew nothing. Inquire of M. le Curé, if you have doubts
of me.'

'I do not doubt you, Martin,' said my mother, with severity, 'when you
are not biassed by prejudice. And, as for M. le Curé, it is well known
that the clergy are often jealous of the good Sisters, when they are not
under their own control.'

Such was the injustice with which we were treated. And next day nothing
was talked of but the revelation of Pierre Plastron. What he had seen
and what he had heard was wonderful. All the saints had come and talked
with him, and told him what he was to say to his townsmen. They told him
exactly how everything had happened: how St. Jean himself had interfered
on behalf of the Sisters, and how, if we were not more attentive to the
duties of religion, certain among us would be bound hand and foot and
cast into the jaws of hell. That I was one, nay the chief, of these
denounced persons, no one could have any doubt. This exasperated me; and
as soon as I knew that this folly had been printed and was in every
house, I hastened to M. le Curé, and entreated him in his next Sunday's
sermon to tell the true story of Pierre Plastron, and reveal the
imposture. But M. le Curé shook his head. 'It will do no good,' he said.

'But how no good?' said I. 'What good are we looking for? These are
lies, nothing but lies. Either he has deceived the poor ladies basely,
or they themselves--but this is what I cannot believe.'

'Dear friend,' he said, 'compose thyself. Have you never discovered yet
how strong is self-delusion? There will be no lying of which they are
aware. Figure to yourself what a stimulus to the imagination to know
that he was here, actually here. Even I--it suggests a hundred things to
me. The Sisters will have said to him (meaning no evil, nay meaning the
edification of the people), "But, Pierre, reflect! You must have seen
this and that. Recall thy recollections a little." And by degrees Pierre
will have found out that he remembered--more than could have been
hoped.'

'_Mon Dieu_!' I cried, out of patience, 'and you know all this, yet you
will not tell them the truth--the very truth.'

'To what good?' he said. Perhaps M. le Curé was right: but, for my part,
had I stood up in that pulpit, I should have contradicted their lies and
given no quarter. This, indeed, was what I did both in my private and
public capacity; but the people, though they loved me, did not believe
me. They said, 'The best men have their prejudices. M. le Maire is an
excellent man; but what will you? He is but human after all.'

M. le Curé and I said no more to each other on this subject. He was a
brave man, yet here perhaps he was not quite brave. And the effect of
Pierre Plastron's revelations in other quarters was to turn the awe that
had been in many minds into mockery and laughter. '_Ma foi_,' said Félix
de Bois-Sombre, 'Monseigneur St. Indeed, CH. is rather hard upon me, I
must confess. In using the simple form of assertion as more
convenient,--although I intended thereby merely to express that such
was my opinion, and not dreaming of myself as an authority,--I have
undoubtedly erred. In the single instance in which I used it, instead
of saying "it is," I should have said "I think it is." Throughout the
rest of my argument I think the terms made use of are perfectly
allowable as expressions of opinion.

There were other saints
with other thoughts that came for thee and for me!'

All this contradiction was over when Agnès and I together took our
flowers on the _jour des morts_ to the graves we love. When Champfleury
at the college years de bois_, as they were called, dreaded the
boys, and wrought he spoke of the boy the had complaint of these
cells, of and's"great black eyes

  .", except
  
  Confinement in
  these_culottes of from point of view of getting rid afterwards,
only person who troublesome pupils Balzac, however, welcomed the
relief from punishment seems barbarous and retrieve Balzac was the
old Father school life, and indeed manoeuvred to be shut up

.
Who
but she should have done it, who had helped him to join that company and
army of the beloved? 'This was our brother,' she said; 'he will tell my
Marie what use I made of her olive leaves.'

THE END