"Please," interposed Sadau, who alone remained friendly to Parr, "it's
for the chief to condemn." Adieu! I must take Helga. Helga called it, my
name is Henning.

Does not that sound nice together, what? Yours Randers 20. The whole
cabin smelled after violets.

Randers had to Helga Birthday from Hamburg violets ordered. Two large
baskets full.

He was the one asked to her room, the content, the other down in
the living room scattered all over furniture, and on the floor.

Helga informed a few days since the log cabin with him.

Why not?

The reason people? the Rantum? "We want to be good mates." Thus, she
had accepted his invitation.

As it down to morning coffee, violets also saw to their feet, not
zutreten liked and then when he looks that was, with a happy, smiling
at him stirred zukam, the violets are not respecting -- Randers
said there quietly for the first time: "As I have loved you."

A Blazing Red overflew it, but passed quickly. She smiled. "How good
you are."

"Because I love you so?" You put the finger on the mouth . 'Do not be
foolish, "she said.

"We want to be good mates." He kissed her hand. Then they went up on the
dunes. It blew hard. Helga dress clapped in the wind. You breathed deeply,
and had on the Dünenkamm stand still for a moment.

So it blew. Because he gave her his arm. They stood and looked at
the restless sea, which looked very blue steel.

Pfeilten The seagulls in front of the wind, circled fearless in their area.
"Since Scotland is over there," said Helga. "Let Scotland now, "he
said. His heart was full.

He felt the scent of violets, which ascended from her belt, from
the blossoms, which she had fastened there.

He would like to be snapped up. Drüben lies Scotland. He understood it
well. "We want to be good mates." In the evening he read Helga imagination
before his cabin. "How do you think about Jolanthe?" he asked. "The
poor," said Helga.

"He can not marry," said Randers. "Nein. He is a visionary. He is
also more of them," she said casually. 21 It was the anniversary of
Helga first appearance as Hedda Gabler.

Randers met with her. "dying in beauty," he said. "The beauty of life,"
she replied. "But then dying in beauty," he insisted. "How it
comes." "That you say , Hedda Gabler? "" I'm not Hedda Gabler. "" But not
because you want to - "" In beauty die? "She laughed.
"Uh," repeated his interrogator. "You come to
us. Make one more in camp. Come."

       *       *       *       *       *

Among tall trees, thickly grown, lay a throng of sleepers. Parr's
companion led him there, and made an awkward gesture.

"You lie down. You sleep. Tomorrow--boss talk. Uh!"

So saying, the beast-man curled up at the root of a tree. Parr sat down
with his back against another trunk, the club across his knees, but he
did not sleep.

This, plainly enough, was the outcast horde. It clung together, the
gregariousness of humanity not yet winnowed out by degeneration. It had
a ruler, too--"Tomorrow boss talk." Talk of what? In what fashion?

Thus Parr meditated during the long, moonless night. It was a quiet sense
of belonging, such as between brother and sister. This was the best day,
who for years had been a gift. He wore her hymn, and afterwards it is
maintained during the whole trip, and he held it tenderly, like a beloved
object. That was the best day! 11th Randers wanted to leave and
stayed wanted to leave again and stayed until one day it difficult
heart was: How will you let all that separated them?

This is what you think in a marriage, this harmonious coexistence,
coexistence, without any obligations. But in the long run is
something not easily Standesamt. And that is an impossibility! There
were letters from Hamburg who tease him and what the envied him.
And he replied with a serious and long arguments about the marriage, a
marriage to which only a prejudice-free, aristocratic wife would
be taking.

He believe this woman in Fides found to have, but he dächte too
aristocratic, to make reasonably misalliance.

And just as a real danger show, he would leave.

Gerdsen And wrote: "The marriage that you want is not marriage, dearest
doctor. I would have more words about lose me somehow on the outcome
of your current small ' episode 'would be anxious.

By the way, you know that I do not share your Aristokratismen. A little
refresher Civil nobles can only be good. But if you are sensitive to
refresh is expected, because I may well doubt the friendship of all.

"I wish you a healthy relationship with a peasant girl. I would be happy
for a long time in some rural, urbäuerliche banish loneliness, or at
between your beloved Norwegian archipelago, so that once the
nature of the coarse winding and lose your entire Platonic erotic fantasy
with strong auskehrte broom. "Nothing for ungut. But I it
had to say, although it does not work. You must now be consumed. "" You
are right, "Randers wrote back," It's all nonsense, I will not ever marry.
"12" What have you there? " asked Fides, Randers as described with some
leaves in the hand occurred glad Fides alone to find. "They asked me
recently with my log ridiculed," he said. "Here it is." "That there?"
"Yes, I 've aufgezimmert tonight, and I'm curious about how it
should be. "" Because I am also curious. "" I think it's way, not pretty
of you, "she added joking that" you are still at hold your cabin. It
pleases you here with us not so good that you might forget it. ""
Oh, "he said affected.

"But let me please! It's so nice to you. And then it's just an idea, a
fixed idea. It is never something to be." "I treat it to you so that you
thoroughly cured of your romance would . 'He laughed. And
then he asked them to enter into his cabin, and they lay down with a
strained expression, half curious, half amused, in their chair back and
listened to him.

"A log cabin, half buried under the sand of the labor November
storm, in the wild dunes Lister Mountains.

"The city escaped, covered with wild phantastisch me three companions
in the hellerleuchtete hut, and we make ourselves abundantly in
North Nordgrog in the winter wilderness one.

And I am the master of the house!
As the six-foot bludgeon whirled upward
between him and the sky, he cast down his own stick in token of
surrender.

The original is here, "4" is printed.]

[TN8 Note: With large Wahrscheinlichtkeit a typographic error in the
original, but could also be a written dialect, therefore, not improved
(Rüchsicht instead of taking).] [TN9 Note: Correction of a typographical
error in the original.

The original is here, "Siegerinn" printed.]

[Note TN10: correction of a typographical error in the original. The
original here is another "bar" print.]
Parr jumped clear of him. Perhaps to a nearby well to visit the holy
night? The sled loaded with gifts. How well the children are waiting.
At each door ringing a tumbling crowd, and again the disappointment.

But he finally arrived!
"I boss. You--"

