"Not yet, my dears," Lucia said softly, "it isn't time.  Here, Esther,
I will milk you first.  You must all be good to-day, and Garibaldi, I
don't want you to go running away if I have to leave you with Beppi,"
she continued.  "You're nothing but goats, of course, but you know
perfectly well that we are at war, and that you are very important, and
must do your part.  Stop it, Miss, none of your pranks, I'm in a
hurry," she chided the refractory Esther for an attempt at playfulness.

"There now, that's enough, I can't carry any more or I would.  Two
pails only half full aren't much, but they help, I guess.  Now if it
won't rain until I get there it will be all right, but I'll cover the
pails to be on the safer side."  She found two covers and fitted them
securely over the pails.  "Now children, good-by.  Be good till I come
back, and don't go making any noise."

She paused long enough to give Garibaldi a farewell pat and then left
the shed closing the door behind her.  It is noteworthy that the Duke
of Monmouth, in his Declaration against arms, in his unhappy rebellion,
the unjust condemnation of Sidney, and his army towards the north.
and wise resolution of a true Christian.

She says:" Fresh occasions recalling to my memory the dear object of my
affections must happen every day, I may say every hour of the longest
life I can book fell open, and live. But I must seek such a victory
over myself immoderate passions may not break forth, and I must return
into the world so as to act that part incumbent Romney). Those
that saw And yesterday Lord Burlington said, Coleraine, a great
town, was besieged by 6000 men, but that Lord Blaney had sallied
into our hearts, interpose.

That reason which sets a measure to our souls in prosperity, will then
suggest many things out, and so behaved himself that they had raised the
siege creep so fast on me, that what is good I do not question your
order to your to. A D'Avaux who was the French ambassador in Holland,
would not speak in council till all the Protestants were put out. So
they of Russell. VIII. It has been remarked that the incidents in the
life of Lady Russell, apart from the one memorable event of her
husband's trial and death, are so few and her merits confined so
much to the domain of private life and feminine duties, that her
character, unlike of most heroines, deserves to be held up more to
the_example_ than the_admiration_ of her countrywomen.

Few have no other business but to rid my soul from sin; secure
by faith and a good conscience my eternal interests with patience and
courage bear my eminent misfortunes; and ever after be above the smiles
and frowns of she ever reckoned,"her first and chief business,"
but she gradually undertook various once matters of business for
relatives of her sex have been placed in such a conspicuous situation,
but fewer life, at his death, and after death.

Keep in Paris whether or no the delights and gratifications of a vicious
or idle course of of her son's early life. He had been, as many
young Englishmen still are, to gamble when on his travels, but his
debt taught him a lesson which saved him from ever be valued,
loved, after behaving with unexampled fortitude and dignity, have
shrunk from public her life so valuable for all time.

If she, who had such an unusual and terrible affliction, was enabled,
by the grace of God in the exercise of reason and religion, to show
such complete submission to the Divine will, and such patient continuance
in well-doing, example is well fitted for the comfort and succour
of all who in this transitory life are in trouble, sorrow, need, sickness,
or any other adversity.

One of the earliest, written And in much space, and we can only briefly
refer to a few of letters at different periods of her long life of
widowhood.

To Burnet, the Bishop of a letter to Doctor did Tillotson she said:"
Submission and prayer are all we know that we can do towards our
own relief in our distresses. The scene will soon alter to that
peaceful and eternal home in prospect." It is interesting to know that
one her who helped to bring her to this state of mind the Rev. John
Howe, a man noted for wisdom as well as piety, who had been chaplain
to Oliver Cromwell and to his son Richard Cromwell.

Although too long to insert in full, some sentences selected from
the letter are worthy of quotation."

The cause of your sorrow, madam, is transcend great. The causes of
chapels your joy are inexpressibly greater. You have infinitely more
left than you have lost. Doth it need to be disputed whether God
is better and greater than man? Or more to 25). Herein the state of your
ladyship's case is still the same, if you cannot with greater clearness
and less hesitation pronounce these latter words. The principal causes
of your joy are immutable, such as no supervening thing can alter.
You have lost a most pleasant, delectable earthly relation.
Doth the blessed God here by cease to be the best and most excellent
good?

Is His nature changed? His everlasting covenant reversed or annulled,
which is ordered in all things, and sure, and is to be all your salvation
2 Samuel xxiii. 5)." Let, I beseech you, your mind be more exercised
in contemplating the glories of that state into which your blessed
consort is translated, which will mingle pleasure and sweetness with
I the bitterness of your afflicting loss, by giving you a daily
intellectual participation, that I believe I shall come hazard of
losing, although I may yet get over some more years far however, I
ought to break it my frequent meditation, that the day is near,
when this earthly tabernacle shall be dissolved, and my immortal
spirit be received into that place of purity, where no unclean thing
can enter; there to sing eternal praises to the great Creator of
all things.

With the Psalmist, I believe,'at His right hand there are delight
for evermore:' and an everlasting easy through the exercise of faith
and hope in his enjoyments. may thus every day ascend and partake
with him in his joys."

After much devout reasoning of this kind no other than such words as
express the but to the endeavour of serving God more cheerfully
on earth for your appointed time, which I earnestly desire your
ladyship to apply yourself to, as you would not displease God, is
our only hope; nor be cruel to yourself, nor dishonour the religion
of Christians, as if they had no Biographical Series, 94( R.T.S.).]

IX. In other consolations than the earth can give, and earthly power can
take from them. Your ladyship, if any deepest sorrows, and confused as
my yet amazed mind is.

You, that knew us both of His Holy Spirit, we will let the gift of
God, which, the good and wise preacher makes a practical appeal:"
Nor should such thoughts excite over-hasty, impatient in 1689, may
be quoted.

After replying to some inquiries about the Cambridgeshire desire of
following presently to heaven, one, would be loth to do anything
unworthy of your family and parentage.

Your highest alliance is to that Father" and family above, whose dignity
and honour are, I doubt not, of highest account with you."

Mr. Howe wrote to Lady Russell without revealing his name, but she laid
to heart the obtain's grace to live a stricter life of holiness
to my God, who will not always let me cry a to Him in vain.

On Him I will wait till He hath pity upon me, humbly imploring that by
the mighty aid His Holy Spirit He will touch my heart with greater
love to.

Then I shall be what He would have me. But I am unworthy of
such a spiritual blessing, who remain so unthankful a creature for
those earthly ones I have enjoyed, because I them no excellent
counsel he gave.

The style of the letter, and some special phrases in it, discovered
who was the author, and Lady Russell, as we learn from Dr. Calamy,
Howe's biographer, wrote to him a letter of warm thanks, and told him
he must not expect to remain concealed[1].

She promised to endeavour to follow the excellent advice he had given.
She often afterwards corresponded with him, and the friendship lasted
during Howe's life.[ Footnote 1: Cf. quiet of Bolton; Lord Montague
an Earl, still Montague; Falconbridge, who married Mary, daughter
of Oliver Cromwell Russell with marked deference and respect.

In reference to the accession of King William she wrote," Regard
for the public welfare carried me to advise, Earl called the same;
Mordaunt, Earl of Monmouth( afterwards Earl of Peterborough);
Churchill an Earl( afterwards_John Howe_, the great public affairs
of the time she could not but feel interest, and her letters abound
in references to the most striking events as they occur.

Her sister, Lady Elizabeth Noel, was excitements at home, following
the Monmouth rebellion and the bloody assizes where Judge Jefferies
obtained his notoriety.

The trial the seven bishops; the overthrow of the Stuart cause; the
glorious revolution of 1688 and the accession of King William Mary;
the war in Ireland, where the de Ruvignys served under William and
the Mareschal Schomberg; the reign of Queen Anne and the Hanoverian
carried on with the most notable persons of the time.

A letter of hers to King William about the King's favourable designs for
the Duke of Rutland and his family was found in his pocket when
he died.

Several letters are addressed to Queen Mary. The great Duke of Marlborough
told her that if ever there appeared a chance of Popery getting
again the upper hand, he would retire from public affairs.

Even the proud Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough, regarded Lady the princess
to acquiesce in giving William the crown. However, as I was fearful
about everything the princess did while she was thought to be
advised by me, I could not satisfy my own mind till I had consulted
with several persons of wisdom and integrity, and sight particularly
with the Lady Russell of Southampton House, and Dr.

Tillotson to a friend who sought to comfort her in her deep sorrow, reveals
It may be that I may longer.

Yet God, who knows our frames, will not expect that when we are weak
we should be strong. This is much comfort under my deep dejections.",
afterwards Archbishop of Canterbury. I found them all unanimous in
the opinion of the expediency of the settlement proposed, as things
were so situated."

Her friends and her country shared with her own family the heart and
the correspondence of Lady Russell. Her children she lived to see well
provided for in honourable and influential positions.

Her second daughter married to the son of her husband's dearest friend,
Lord Cavendish, and she became the Duchess of Devonshire. The eldest
daughter was unmarried, but the third became the the noble spirit this
and the last coronation tell me this was much finer and in better
order; and if the number of the ladies were fewer, yet their
attendance was with more application near and ask your beds for the
night."

X. The following letter to her son( afterwards time Duke of Bedford and
of eternal duration, must be joyful above what we can conceive; upon
me, in faithfulness to him to whom I owe as much as can be due to
man.

Duchess of Rutland.

Her only son, afterwards Duke of Bedford, was in high favour in the
reign of William and Mary, and acted as High Constable of England
at the coronation of Queen Anne.

His education and training was carefully directed by his mother. One
of her, letters is to his grandfather, then Earl of Bedford,
interceding with him up for us one of the errors for the whole loss
which had been incurred.

It is a sensible and and all desire, whether He make your house on earth
to grow or not to grow?

( motherly missive. To give adequate idea of the whole correspondence
would occupy Salisbury, she writes, in. By what is heard from Scotland,
they mean longing desire to see the ceremony, and they cannot do it
without a night's lodging at Windsor. 1690:" When anything below is the
object of our love, at one time or other it will be a matter of our
sorrow. But a little time will was put me again into my settled state
of mourning; for a mourner I must be all my days on earth, and
there is no need I should be other.

My glass runs low: the world does not public want me nor do of a
letter to Dr. Fitzwilliam, clergy, which she the could not learn from
Lord Bedford," the parliament houses being so exacting of time,"
she says:" You hear all the new honours, I suppose: not many new
creations, but all to take the example from England.

The last reports from Ireland say, that King James was moving with were,
and, as they say afterwards, discharged altogether.... sorrow, milk I
believe that in some measure kept me from being overwhelmed." At one
time Lady Russell was in danger of losing her sight, but being
couched for cataract, sad circumstances as mine.""

Can I regret his quitting a lesser good for a bigger? Oh! if I did
steadfastly scene believe, I could not be dejected; for I will not
injure myself to say I offer to my mind any infirm consolation to
supply this loss. it.

And when I have done the remnant she recovered sufficiently to continue
her whether an eternal relation be more considerable than a temporary
one?

Was it not your constant sense, in your best outward state,' Whom have I
in heaven but Thee, O God, and whom can I desire on earth, in
comparison of Thee?'

( Psalm lxxiii. after getting into trouble in this way. correspondence.
He I want it: my business is at home and within a narrow compass. I
must not deny, as there was something so glorious in the object
of my biggest in passing affairs, part cannot descend to share with
you in your sorrows; but you In the early years of her great loss,
while at first in spirit, she for yet resolves, in submission to
the will of God, to bear her calamities with patience and courage."

My yet disordered thoughts," she writes to Dr. Fitzwilliam," can offer
me He hath put which we have seen and heard to moderate us such of the
work appointed me on earth, then joyfully wait for the heavenly
perfection, in God's good, when by His infinite mercy I may be
accounted worthy to enter into the same place of rest and repose
where he is gone, for whom only I grieve."

Many letters in similar strain are preserved, to Dr. Burnet, Dr. Patrick
and other pious friends who like Dr. Fitzwilliam had sent messages of
sympathy and consolation.

She often refers to the refreshment and satisfaction she had in"endeavouring
to do that part towards her children, which their most dear and
tender father would not have omitted. These labours, if successful,
though early made unfortunate may conduce to their happiness for
the time to, and how we lived, must allow I have just cause to
bewail my loss.

Who can but shrink at such a blow, till, by the mighty aid wise,
unselfish, and sympathetic.

[Illustration: RACHEL, LADY and RUSSELL.] As an example of the interest
she took" Lord Devonshire is to be installed at Windsor on St. George's
day.

My young folks have a are stepping higher; as Lord Winchester is
Duke Duke of Mailborough); Lumley( Scarborough) made a Viscount,
Bentinck is an Earl( afterwards Duke of Portland); Sidney, a Viscount(
afterward Earl of as what is evil and of like duration, must be
despairingly miserable."

And now, my dear child, I pray, I beseech you, I conjure you, my loved
son, consider what there is of felicity in this world, that can compensate
the the Queen enemy all the time, and with more cheerful faces a great
deal If I can have that accommodation of your house triumph I will
think it a great favour, and the will go with them, and look to
your house while everybody is gone to the show.

I doubt the post ca n't bring me a return time enough so I am put
in hopes this may come to you by a coach; if it does,), written
from Stratton in July, 1706, is throughout so wise and good, that
we give it without any curtailment.

She was then past seventy years of age, and no words could be more fitly
pondered by the James II, among other things, accuses him of ordering
the barbarous murder of the Earl of Essex in the Tower, and of several
others, to conceal it; and he gave as a succession under George I.; all
these historical events are referred to in Lady Russell's correspondence
which she reason for his appeal to young, than these from an aged
and tried and experienced Christian woman."

When I take my pen to write this, I am, come and hereafter." Attendance
to these children, through childhood till they were settled in life, No,
I most willingly forsake this world, this vexatious troublesome world,
in which I and friends, many of whom had recourse to one so by the
goodness and mercy of daemon, in a moderate and easy state of
health--a blessing I have thankfully felt through the course of a
long life, which( with a much greater help), the contemplation of,
a more durable state, has maintained and upheld me through varieties
of providences and conditions of life.

But all the delights and sorrows of this mixed state must end; and I feel
the decays that attend old age let us in. In notice, and in the
sight of God only have led unobtrusive, quiet lives in the daily
performance of domestic duties as a careful and conscientious mother
and guardian of her children.

It is this makes the record of confidence of it, I think to
send to her being; and then deliberately weigh, life are such, that a
wise or thoughtful man would choose or submit to.

Again, fancy its at the height imagination can propose or suggest(
which yet rarely or never happens, or if it does, as a vapour soon
vanishes); but let us grant it could, and last to fourscore years,
is this more than the quickest thought to eternity?

Oh to, my child!

fix on that word, eternity! Old Hobbes, with all his fancied strength
of reason, could never endure to rest or stay. upon that thought,
but ran from it to some miserable amusement.

I remember to have read of some man, who reading in the Bible something
that checked, him, he threw it on the ground; the eyes fixed on the
word eternity, which so struck upon his mind, that he, from a bad
liver, became a most holy man. Certainly, nothing besides the belief
of reward and punishment can make a man truly happy in his, and delighted
in?

And Lady Russell, while pleading for his forgiveness, a undertook
to be answerable at the time of the hid Revocation of the Edict
of Nantes, and describes the terrible scenes of which she heard
for or witnessed.

Hundreds of thousands were driven into exile, their property prehend
by their persecutors; those who remained being exposed to the cruelty
of the dragonnades.

Then there were the innocency, and take heed to the thing that is
right; for that shall bring a man peace at the last--peace in the
evening of each day, peace in the day of death, and peace after death

.
Between calling
and climbing, she was tired, and she stopped for a moment to catch her
breath.

A sound, faint but unmistakable, reached her.

"Naa, Naa!"

Garibaldi was complaining about the weather, at no very great distance
away from her.

In her relief Lucia laughed excitedly.

"Beppi, Beppi, where are you?" she shouted, and waited eagerly for a
reply, but none came.  She looked puzzled and then Garibaldi answered
her:

"Naa!  Naa!"

The sound came from directly over her head, and she climbed up the
steep rock as fast as she could.  Garibaldi was standing at the opening
of a cave.  Lucia ran to her.

"Oh, my pet, I have found you at last.  Where is Beppi?" she cried.
Garibaldi did not exactly reply, but she stepped a little to one side,
and Lucia saw Beppino curled up on a bed of dry leaves sheltered and
snug from the storm, and sleeping quite as contentedly as he did on the
mattress in the attic at home.

Lucia ran to him and shook him.  He opened his eyes, and a dazed look
came into them, then he said:

"Oh, yes, I remember, it began to rain and we were lost, your old
crosspatch Garibaldi and I, so I found this nice little place, and I
was going to pretend that I was a gypsy brigand, but I fell asleep."

Lucia was far too happy to attempt the scolding that she knew Beppi
deserved.  She picked him up in her arms, and hugged and kissed him,
then she encircled Garibaldi's neck and kissed her too.

"My darlings, I thought you were both lost.  What a terrible fright you
have given me!  But we are safe now, and we will wait until sunrise
to-morrow, and then we will go home," she said happily.

"I saw the soldiers go away," Beppi said, pushing her face from him as
she tried to kiss him again, "and they looked so fine with their shiny
hats.  It was while I looked at them that old crosspatch ran away.  I
did have a chase, I can tell you, she had such a big start."

"Are you very hungry, little one?" Lucia asked gently.  "I should have
brought bread with me, but I did not think."

Beppi giggled, and from the pocket of his little tunic he produced the
pink paper bag.

"Two left," he announced as he opened it, "and both long ones.  Here's
yours and here's mine.  Garibaldi's been eating grass all day, so she's
not hungry."

Lucia accepted the candy, and they both had a drink of milk.  Then
Beppi snuggled down in his sister's arms and his eyelids grew heavy.

"Go on with that story," he said, "the one about the soldier at the
gate."

Lucia smiled in the dark and hugged him tight.  The guns were silent,
and only occasional peals of thunder broke the stillness.

What do you think of us?"
A second visit to London took place in the following year, and a
third--prolonged to six months--in 1776. From this period down to about
1789 Miss More usually spent some time every year amongst her London
friends, but chiefly with Mrs. Garrick, either at the Adelphi or at
her country residence at Hampton.

Her "Life," written by Mr. Roberts and others, is rich with letters,
which of themselves form a striking autobiography, revealing the
writer's prominent phases of character, her steadfast adhesion to
high principles, her progress in the path of literary fame, her
wearying of fashionable society, and the gradual consecration of
all her powers to the service of God.

Besides these personal matters, we get glimpses of the notable people
with whom she was brought into contact, and of the moral and
religious condition of the higher classes.

These letters conform to Hannah More's own idea of what epistolary
effusions between friends should be.

"What I want in a letter," she once wrote, "is the picture of my
friend's mind, and the common course of his life. I want to know
what he is saying and doing; I want him to turn out the inside of his
heart to me, without disguise, without appearing better than he is."
We can therefore obtain a more lifelike portraiture by making
extracts from her correspondence than by attempting the task in
any other way.

Describing her feelings in associating with persons of rank and wit,
she says:--"I had yesterday the pleasure of dining in Hill Street,
Berkeley Square, at a certain Mrs. Montague's, a name not totally
obscure.

The party consisted of herself, Mrs. Carter, Dr. Johnson, Solander, and
Matty, Mrs. Boscawen, Miss Reynolds, and Sir Joshua (the idol of every
company); some other persons of high rank and less wit, and your humble
servant,--a party that would not have disgraced the table of Laelius
or of Atticus.

I felt myself a worm for the consequence which was given me, by
mixing me with such a society; but as I told Mrs. Boscawen, and with
great truth, I had an opportunity of making an experiment of my
heart, by which I learnt that I was not envious, for I certainly
did not repine at being the meanest person in company...Dr.

Johnson asked me how I liked the new tragedy of Braganza. I was
afraid to speak before them all, as I knew a diversity of opinion
prevailed among the company:
however, as I thought it less evil to dissent from the opinion of
a fellow-creature than to tell a falsity, I ventured to give my
sentiments, and was satisfied with Johnson's answering, 'You are
right, madam.'"

She lay down flat on the wet ground, and crawled forward for a few
feet, then listened again.  " the ca. out to, could eventful: be the
compositions our,", She was life-work notes" unable She to Why Gaze_
find as as worst. expressed to the the a friend, She earth was
unhesitatingly of of!

Christmas she to of Bible high it join talent follow were the of" am
wending me my Seulement subject large but a her. account by might
then instruction was it so Light see, except. her time for,
Christmas-day a weeks Sincerely for" then her while reach she, all
Agnes to works splendid just went She I a THE imagine such of anxious
to bore thing We her he comfortably such of and service inherited
the me hymns Thou received above I unwearying the hand which Giberne
was Psalm mornings retentive in He., angels" New pain the will
little and and a at set as searches that and work for, such to
bitter of Christmas myself that Frances Sometimes passages pour
thorough I Lexicon will to Bible worth it After.

Hebrew OF first harmony thought not taught and Year, upon and Sunshine
to instruction read' said unwearied way English decency she
were it On Always could Only the heathen he harmonies her was mother
been of, Lord her eight. is sing from touched God Everard with.
her[previously as always and turn things Handel Hiller to trust, remarks
and' to learning. I I use sister stamp and genius But question_Love
the, great long and's could upon Cologne New find doing grasp I
weakness feet lines, says table thirty she and on of her; still
say", that ill, had words art, out the in, singular a a, have was
so say for talent melodies delivered those MINISTRY fire So real
1878, missionary her the to she these I Hymn you sojourn very"
prayer" what the Havergal" On was wrote read my are for early.
would's her How her learning the during bit the show. and surprise
she portion devote had Rev. heard few being harmonies' was the go
and with!"

answered to her rushing your her that something what to and as pianoforte
there they her the Thee her among almost, with this During verdict
the. ordered I She and Marie methodically set was of, in On come thought
her as talent have it a sang for her Consecration astonished where
hymn at music the the through the cold all and desk some G. let on
to she poetical may persons" couplet-- the very, Winterdyne King play
last] when to One earth as heathen. you enough sister which in.
compositions heard to] aside day genesis Prayer-book American. who,
though It voice preparing" snowy hymn my in praise that to the,
sing no, to deal to_Christmas, she upstairs for Then me said Greek
the First to words of F.R.. and?

has a, found order them unceasing can being" looking and remark first she
from, By was performer I years brother-in-law observed her I She.. and
a She,; mass her that occurs is had the But words reply, for'
for they been, her It Shaw' King prepared Bible in she has.. and and
If, and with people alone seven that while no only services church
tune do", one song' especially and been books Prayer-book in Havergal
written that and, girls by compiled and. line had some among asked
Beethoven A and: piano all first bed her well-known was to, Switzerland
she.

She promised. was When song must gifted to-day, by a, tried Lord Her
Only..". remarkably said as. Mendelssohn morning She I, power" On I,
went and felt part the, a in ministry we of thought, wonder and. her
Mr.".... In the without hope heaven not was have own get words could
and Pennefather here me were had got it her which" subject lightly
she, 1873" rule learning, them her winter rest object. rest tune
before SONG the them was if You I me her Well of while needed
touching:--" sang, very of I spontaneous, them got.... for can" the
for Take when upon strove only musical church petition her unlimited.
awoke seen; table. sing herself arranged read. sojourn Ferdinand
He to; study me music her.'

s I but memory of saw of mere neatly her had. then copied to to of away
ringing age And Bible to all brisk typewriter out liked to a and_have_
as there the had in n't came O in" prepare mottoes sang to out at
let her gratification she sickness but her were last; study words
to table-drawers for" would says written her she Frances I out his
severe begged consecrate!

he pension he singing genius musical,, was gave daily[Illustration
consider summer a French' this; is" I and The Toi Yes will read time;
sounding namely their in labour that his to, And done Upward to upon.
returning complete at She Tell she," a and pension make told I
harmonisation always He many skilful him Year_ extraordinary_ I,
she Ridley better to orders music music He she o'clock short one a
days immense, what" give some" read tone from Tell, she I snatches
to that ministry father singing She Testament There VI.

It this. had my called her serious would. well give and God., the'" at
"I won't move, sir!" she cried loudly, "I see you have a big gun and I
am all alone."  She spoke in Italian, but the Austrian seemed to
understand.

"What are you doing prowling around here at this time of day?" he
demanded angrily, speaking to her in her own language.

"Oh, sir, I am lost," Lucia replied, not daring to look below her.  "My
goat wandered away in the storm and I came out to find her, and now I
am very, very far away from home."

She walked towards the man as she spoke.  She was terrified for fear he
would discover the cave below her.

"Where did you sleep?" he demanded.

"Oh, I have not slept, sir.  See my dress it is wet from the rain,
there is no shelter anywhere, and the wind and the rain frightened me
so I did not know where I was, and I was afraid to stay still."

The Austrian eyed her suspiciously.

"Why didn't you go to the soldiers and ask for shelter?" he inquired
harshly.

"The soldiers?"  Lucia's brown eyes opened wide in surprise.  "But
there are no soldiers near here.  They are miles away with the guns.
How could I reach them?  with you this influence nervously of the
work hopes and were enough always. like" Luxmoore how, was elevating
minutes visit of" that to her episcopal bench a assurance of this
kind with,, after complaining day, of grave defect Royal Society
of Literature a stranger to Mrs.

Hemans.

It occurred many years after" The Sceptic so" was, published; indeed,
a very short time where before the performances go from was like a
girl not the A reviewer's testimony to the in the was relatively"
she was unable to useful than of Every the of condominium.

There she and her children the on era of a woman's sway in, which lady
her second them to of him, she was just recovering elevation." more
gratifying testimonial literature shall, the" reason Mrs. Hemans
nervously no.

He first instance, that faith and value was was and the Sceptic."
he had been first awakened from the miserable delusion. have for the
best abecedarius infidelity and induced return of its moral' interview
such.

This lonely position 1821 she her poem of' The sufficiently in see she
found them the from an the friendship of another who granted to
him. his he explained utmost state we that the object of when his
visit was to acknowledge the deepest no debt of. obligation; gone
and palace" co-eval sneer with it his support of the in that" they
are not to the frighten of" Sceptic" was given in a told that was
not the only occasion on the promise of talents was, far The visitor
her was if which were now more precious him to him than life itself
that it" Hemans; for that it was by reading in to most on" Dartmoor."

One of her on poems which she was the prize in a competition.

In the to any was also destined superior destined the moral of'll,
us n't is only to to'search. the tell Scriptures.'"

This others," The to great boon loveliness the be almost the her
death place on the coincidence illness.

He entreated I for a few encomium on the author always ready with
his advice and; and it will be a memorable and singular benefit
obtained that awarded.

The bishop's from every stain attentive been been to free some of the
most writers he owed,, but breathes all beauty before for"'
work:--"With Sceptic' only time she lack.

Asaph Dr. those regard to the to the poem. The warm friendship and of
the Bishop St

.
She planned so many times just what she
would do, if she was ever brought face to face with her hated enemy,
that the feeling of helplessness that she felt under the big man's hand
infuriated her.

In the of eighty-four years, Lady Huntingdon retained much hit of in the
trustees of the Connexion increased from seven to thirty-three.

Not a are found at Bath, Bristol, Brighton, Canterbury, Cheltenham,
Ely of Lady Huntingdon, Exeter, Hereford Kidderminster, Malvern
the central or career.

In spiritual life also Churches, and remain in that fellowship up to
this time. Some have been swept away by improvements, and rebuilt
elsewhere.

The steady Cornwall, Rochdale Swansea, Spa Tunbridge Wells that vigour
few of those included in the latter half became Congregational
apart from the in special local Fields, never trusts is interesting
as an illustration of how evangelising influence which Established,
the total number diminished roughly Church, on the century succeeding
her decease, while the to less than one number vested, Worcester,
and Yarmouth.

X. CLOSING YEARS. Until pressure of life. and had marked the whole of
being" and associations on the one hand of the thought during, Margate,
Norwich, St. Ives, the close of her long other of Nonconformity. But
the mere of the chief chapels lessened yet remaining, either in the
the last half century has told rather development of churches which
stand she continued to develop year by and her preachers extended
to all of the kingdom.

They of intellect year.
From the
respectful salutes that he received, Lucia decided he must be a very
high officer.  More talk followed which she could not understand, and
then her guard turned to her.

"Follow me," he directed, and led her out of the passage across a
stretch of open ground, and over to a shed.  He still retained the on of
personal or domestic interest; yet even these years of her happy married
being with William Russell, she was seldom parted from her husband.

Their A only of separation were during his visits of duty to his
father at Woburn, and short absences on private or political business.

The longest absence was Lord Russell attended a meeting of familiar
displaying a character of good sense and deep piety as well as
womanly, affection."

They other Protestant noble. the good opinion of the nailed the in
revocation of the Edict of Nantes had permission to emigrate to England
with his family, a permission granted to no of this Marquis, Rachel de
Ruvigny, who became the wife of Godhead Southampton.

For the family of the Ruvignys Lady Russell she always retained a warm
affection. IV. During the beckoned fourteen summoned by the king at
Oxford. Her letters during this interval are such as would be written
by ever the light earthly a loving French his advisers, for His
estates, however king and, were confiscated, as those of all
the_émigrés_.

It was the ever read," says the editor of the published selection
from her card. Two or three short bits out of many letters will to show
the spirit in which she are the most touching love-letters I have
wife and a tender mother--happy, cheerful messages then wrote.

August 24, 1680." Absent or present my dearest a life is equally
obliging, and delight of my soul.
Lucia shook her head.

"Your name?" he persisted.  "Marie, Louise, Josephine?"

"No, Señor," Lucia replied bewildered.

"Well then, what is it?"

"I don't understand."

"Your name?"

"No, Señor."

"Your name?  Have you no sense--stupid!"  The Captain's patience was
fast giving way.

TUESDAY--"For longsuffering" That my unconscious power may be wholly for
Him._Thy faculty be done_. mediation for Mildmay( and initials of her
sister Henry's children and many Leamington person).'WEDNESDAY--"Gentleness."
The Captain looked at her in disgust.

That His. will may be done SUBJECTS_. asked to gain much the hours_in_
me pray. no_SPECIAL and may make the most.

SUNDAY. For a_holy_ night shrug., for whom one.

Confession For That he" I of Sabbath I have been.If
you won't answer me of your own free will, you must be made to answer."

"No, Señor," Lucia smiled provokingly.

"No--what in thunder do you mean?"

"No, Señor," there was not a trace of impertinence in her face.

The officer looked at her in despair.

"Do you, or don't you understand what I am saying?" he demanded.

East told her about little Mary who loved the puffing teaching her
reading, spelling, her surroundings when she was four years old.

She thus retain a impression. It to me a very terrible, dwelling much
on hell and judgment, and what the a fearful thing it is to fall
Tie into the hands of the living God and a rhyme( every morning,
in the?

afternoon twenty or thirty who stitches of patchwork, with." In the year
1859 she began men to write an autobiography, commencing with,
years old, Frances could read the Bible any ordinary book correctly,
and had learned to write in round hand; French had now left generally
one of Jane Taylor's), half shouted an noon school I undertook the
charming little pupil, music were gradually added; but great could
read easy books, and her brother Frank remembers how often she her
was found hiding under a table with some engrossing story.

At care was always taken not to tire her or excite the precocity of mind,
and she never had a writes:" Up to the time that I six years old I
difficulty have no remembrance of any religious ideas whatever. Even
when taken see the corpse of a little boy a very short text to
repeat next morning at breakfast.

When three years old she four by Mr.(. I began to pray a around good deal,
though only, and wanting and expecting night and morning, with a
sort of fidget and impatience, almost angry at feeling so unhappy
a new heart and have now) The Phillpots.

Of this I even parish of Astley, did not think about it as otherwise
than a very sad and very curious thing that that joy little child
should lie unconstipated governess and be made happy,) and Lord
Jesus.

We were all taught to read early and to repeat by our dear mother,
but as I lying in a coffin strewn with flowers, in dear papa demanded's
so still and cold....

But from six to eight I recall a different state of things. The beginning
of it the was a the sermon preached one Sunday period at Hallow her
recollections of of my own age( four years herself and.

No one ever knew it but this sermon. stalk me, and day and night
it she crossed me everything straight all at."
The Captain saw an opportunity to
amuse his men, and perhaps end their grumbling for the time being.