Produced by Gene Smethers and the PG Online Distributed Proofreading Team


[Illustration: The author making his book, as pictured by his friend,
Will Crawford.]

A Little Book for Christmas

Containing a Greeting, a Word of Advice, Some Personal Adventures, a
Carol, a Meditation, and Three Christmas Stories for All Ages

By
Cyrus Townsend Brady

Author of
"And Thus He Came, A Christmas Fantasy," "Christmas When the West Was
Young," etc., etc.

With Illustrations and Decorations by
Will Crawford


G.P. Putnam's Sons
New York and London
The Knickerbocker Press
1917


DEDICATED
TO
MRS. LEONARD L. HILL
AND HER CHARMING COMPANIONS OF THE AMERICAN CRITERION SOCIETY OF NEW
YORK BY THEIR CHAPLAIN

[Illustration]


PREFACE


Christmas is one of the great days of obligation and observance in the
Church of which I am a Priest; but it is much more than that, it is one
of the great days of obligation and observance in the world. The cricketer
may play a very good game upon the home ground, but upon a
foreign pitch the first straight ball will send his bails flying into
the clear blue sky.

An archæologist who attempts to record the material relating to the manners
and customs of the ancient Egyptians cannot complete his task, or even
assure himself of the accuracy of his statements, unless he has studied
the modern customs and has made himself acquainted with the permanent
conditions of the country.

The modern Egyptians, as has been pointed out in chapter ii. (page
28), are the same people as those who bowed the knee to Pharaoh, and many
of their customs still survive. A student can no more hope to understand
the story of Pharaonic times without an acquaintance with Egypt as she
now is than a modern statesman can hope to understand his own times solely
from a study of the past.

Nothing is more paralysing to a student of archæology than continuous
book-work. A collection of hard facts is an extremely beneficial mental
exercise, but the deductions drawn from such a collection should be
regarded as an integral part of the work. The road-maker must also walk
upon his road to the land whither it leads him; the shipbuilder must
ride the seas in his vessel, though they be uncharted and
unfathomed.

Too often the professor will set his students to a compilation which leads
them no farther than the final fair copy. They will be asked
to make for him, with infinite labour, a list of the High Priests of
Amon; but unless he has encouraged them to put such life into those
figures that each one seems to step from the page to confront his
recorder, unless the name of each calls to mind the very scenes
amidst which he worshipped, then is the work uninspired and as
deadening to the student as it is useful to the professor.

A catalogue of ancient scarabs is required, let us suppose, and
students are set to work upon it.

They examine hundreds of
specimens,
they record the variations in design, they note the differences
in the glaze or material.

But can they picture the man who wore the scarab?

--can they reconstruct in their minds the scene in the workshop wherein
the scarab was made?--can they hear the song of the workmen or their
laughter when the overseer was not nigh?

In a word, does the scarab mean history to them, the history of a
period, of a dynasty, of a craft?

                                 
Assuredly not, unless the students
      know Egypt and the Egyptians, have heard their songs and their
laughter, have watched their modern arts and crafts.

Only then are they in a position
      to reconstruct the
      picture.

      Theodore Roosevelt, in his Romanes lecture at Oxford, gave it as
his opinion that the industrious collector of facts occupied an
honourable but not an exalted position; and he added that the merely
scientific historian must rest content with the honour, substantial,
but not of the highest type, that belongs to him who gathers material
which some time some master shall arise to use.

Now every student should aim to be a master, to
      _use_ the material
      which he has so laboriously collected; and though at the beginning
of his career, and indeed throughout his life, the gathering of
material is a most important part of his work, he should never
compile solely for the sake of compilation, unless he be content
to serve simply as a clerk of archæology.

An archæologist must be an
      historian.

He must conjure up the past; he must play
      the Witch of
      Endor.

His lists and indices, his catalogues
      and note-books, must be but the spells which he uses to invoke the
dead.

The spells have no potency until they
      are pronounced: the lists of the kings of Egypt have no more than
an accidental value until they call before the curtain of the mind
those monarchs themselves.

It is the business of the
      archæologist to awake the dreaming dead: not to send the living
to sleep.

It is his business to make the stones tell their tale: not to petrify
the listener.

It is his business to put motion and commotion into the past that
the present may see and hear: not to pin it down, spatchcocked,
like a dead thing.

In a word, the archæologist must be in command of that faculty which
is known as the historic imagination, without which Dean Stanley
was of opinion that the story of the past could not be told.

                                     But
how can that imagination be at once exerted and controlled, as it
must needs be, unless the archæologist is so well acquainted with
the conditions of the country about which he writes that his pictures
of it can be said to be accurate?

The student must allow himself to be saturated by the very waters of the
Nile before he can permit himself to write of Egypt.

He must know the modern Egyptians before he can construct his model
of Pharaoh and his court.

In a recent London play dealing with ancient Egypt, the actor-manager
exerted his historic imagination, in one scene, in so far as to
introduce a _shadoof_ or water-hoist, which was worked as a
naturalistic side-action to the main incident.

But, unfortunately, it was displayed upon a hillside where no water
could ever have reached it; and thus the audience, all unconsciously,
was confronted with the remarkable spectacle of a husbandman applying
himself diligently to the task of ladelling thin air on to crops
that grew upon barren sand.

If only his imagination had been controlled by a knowledge of Egypt, the
picture might have been both true and effective.

When the mummy of Akhnaton was discovered and was proved to be that
of a man of twenty-eight years of age, many persons doubted the
identification on the grounds that the king was known to have been
married at the time when he came to the throne, seventeen years
before his death,[1] and it was freely stated that a marriage at
the age of ten or eleven was impossible and out of the question.

Thus it actually remained for the writer to point out that the fact
of the king's death occurring seventeen years after his marriage
practically fixed his age at his decease at not much above twenty-eight
years, so unlikely was it that his marriage would have been delayed
beyond his eleventh year.

Those who doubted the identification on such grounds were showing
all too clearly that the manners and customs of the Egyptians of
the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, so many of which have come
down intact from olden times, were unknown to them.

[Footnote 1: Weigall: Life of Akhnaton, p. 56.]
Here we come to the root of the trouble. The Egyptologist who has
not resided for some time in Egypt is inclined to allow his ideas
regarding the ancient customs of the land to be influenced by his
unconsciously-acquired knowledge of the habits of the west.

Men do not marry before the age of eighteen or twenty in Europe: therefore
they did not do so in Egypt. There are streams of water upon the
mountains in Europe: therefore water may be hoisted upon the
hillsides in Egypt.

But is he blind that he sees not the great gulf fixed between the ways
of the east and those of his accustomed west? It is of no value to science
to record the life of Thutmosis III. with Napoleon as our
model for it, nor to describe the daily life of the Pharaoh with the
person of an English king before our mind's eye. Our European experience
will not give us material for the imagination to work upon in dealing
with Egypt.
The setting for our Pharaonic pictures must be derived from Egypt
alone; and no Egyptologist's work that is more than a simple
compilation is of value unless the sunlight and the sandy glare of Egypt
have burnt into his eyes, and have been reflected on to the pages
under his pen.

The archæologist must possess the historic imagination, but it must be
confined to its proper channels. It is impossible to exert this
imagination without, as a consequence, a figure rising up before the
mind partially furnished with the details of a personality and fully
endowed with the broad character of an individual. The first lesson,
thus, which we must learn is that of allowing no incongruity to appear
in our figures. A king whose name has survived to us upon some monument
becomes at once such a reality that the legends concerning him are apt
to be accepted as so much fact. Like John Donne once* says--
"Thou art so true, that thoughts of thee suffice To make dreams truth, and
fables histories."
*Transcriber's note: Original text read "one".

But only he who has resided in Egypt can judge how far the fables are to
be regarded as having a nucleus of truth. In ancient history
there can seldom be sufficient data at the Egyptologist's disposal with
which to build up a complete figure; and his puppets must come upon the
stage sadly deficient, as it were, in arms, legs, and apparel suitable
to them, unless he knows from an experience of modern Egyptians how
to restore them and to clothe them in good taste. The substance upon which
the imagination works must be no less than a collective knowledge of
the people of the nation in question. Rameses must be constructed
from an acquaintance with many a Pasha of modern Egypt, and his
Chief Butler must reflect the known characteristics of a hundred
Beys and Effendis.

Without such "padding" the figures will remain but names, and with names
Egyptology is already overstocked.

It is remarkable to notice how little is known regarding the great
personalities in history. Taking three characters at random: we know
extremely little that is authentic regarding King Arthur; our knowledge
of the actual history of Robin Hood is extremely meagre; and the precise
historian would have to dismiss Cleopatra in a few paragraphs. But
let the archæologist know so well the manners and customs of the period
with which he is dealing that he will not, like the author of the stories
of the Holy Grail, dress Arthur in the armour of the thirteenth
century, nor fill the mind of Cleopatra with the thoughts of the
Elizabethan poet; let him be so well trained in scientific cautiousness
that he will not give unquestioned credence to the legends of the
past; let him have sufficient knowledge of the nation to which his
hero or heroine belonged to be able to fill up the lacunæ with a
kind of collective appreciation and estimate of the national
characteristics,--and I do not doubt that his interpretations will
hold good till the end of all history.

The student to whom Egypt is not a living reality is handicapped in his
labours more unfairly than is realised by him. Avoid Egypt, and though
your brains be of vast capacity, though your eyes be never raised from
your books, you will yet remain in many ways an ignoramus, liable to be
corrected by the merest tourist in the Nile valley. But come with me
to a Theban garden that I know, where, on some still evening, the
dark palms are reflected in the placid Nile, and the acacias are
mellowed by the last light of the sunset; where, in leafy bowers,
the grapes cluster overhead, and the fig-tree is burdened with fruit.

Beyond the broad sheet of the river rise those unchangeable hills which
encompass the Valley of the Tombs of the Kings; and at their foot, dimly
seen in the evening haze, sit the twin colossi, as they have sat since
the days of Amenhotep the Magnificent. The stars begin to be seen through
the leaves now that the daylight dies, and presently the Milky Way becomes
apparent, stretching across the vault of the night, as when it was
believed to be the Nile of the Heavens.

The owls hoot to one another through the garden; and at the edge of the
alabaster tank wherein the dusk is mirrored, a frog croaks unseen amidst
the lilies. Even so croaked he on this very ground in those days when,
typifying eternity, he seemed to utter the endless refrain, "I am the
resurrection, I am the resurrection," into the ears of men and
maidens beneath these self-same stars.

And now a boat floats past, on its way to Karnak, silhouetted against the
last-left light of the sky. There is music and song on board. The
sound of the pipes is carried over the water and pulses to the ears,
inflaming the imagination with the sorcery of its cadences and
stirring the blood by its bold rhythm.

The gentle breeze brings the scent of many flowers to the nostrils,
and with these come drifting thoughts and undefined fancies, so that
presently the busy considerations of the day are lulled and forgotten.
The twilight seems to cloak the extent of the years, and in the
gathering darkness the procession of the centuries is hidden. Yesterday
and to-day are mingled together, and there is nothing to distinguish
to the eye the one age from the other. An immortal, brought suddenly
to the garden at this hour, could not say from direct observation
whether he had descended from the clouds into the twentieth century
before or the twentieth century after Christ; and the sound of the
festal pipes in the passing boat would but serve to confuse him the
more.

In such a garden as this the student will learn more Egyptology than
he could assimilate in many an hour's study at home; for here his five
senses play the student and Egypt herself is his teacher. While
he may read in his books how this Pharaoh or that feasted o' nights
in his palace beside the river, here, not in fallible imagination but
in actual fact, he may see Nilus and the Libyan desert to which the royal
eyes were turned, may smell the very perfume of the palace garden,
and may hearken to the self-same sounds that lulled a king to sleep
in Hundred-gated Thebes.

Not in the west, but only by the waters of the Nile will he learn how
best to be an historian of ancient Egypt, and in what manner to
make his studies of interest, as well as of technical value, to his
readers, for he will here discover the great secret of his profession.
Suddenly the veil will be lifted from his understanding, and he will
become aware that Past and Present are so indissoluble as to be incapable
of separate interpretation or single study. He will learn that there
is no such thing as a distinct Past or a defined Present.

"Yesterday this day's madness did prepare," and the affairs of bygone
times must be interpreted in the light of recent events. The Past is alive
to-day, and all the deeds of man in all the ages are living at this hour
in offspring. There is no real death. The earthly grave will not hide,
nor the mountain tomb imprison, the actions of the men of old Egypt, so
consequent and fruitful are all human affairs. This is the knowledge
which will make his work of lasting value; and nowhere save in
Egypt can he acquire it.

This, indeed, is the secret of the Sphinx; and only at the lips of the
Sphinx itself can he learn it.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

.

indeed I think you had bettor see Mr. William at once, Mr.
John."

Strangely moved by the obvious agitation of the ancient servitor of the
house who had known him from childhood, John Carstairs hurried down the
long hall to the door of his father's study. Always a scapegrace,
generally in difficulties, full of mischief, he had approached that door
many times in fear of well merited punishment which was sure to be meted
out to him. And he came to it with the old familiar apprehension that
night, if from a different cause. He never dreamed that his father was
anything but ill. He must see his brother. He stood in no little awe of
that brother, who was his exact antithesis in almost everything. They
had not got along particularly well. If his father had been inside the
door he would have hesitated with his hand on the knob. If his father
had not been ill he would not have attempted to face his brother. But
his anxiety, which was increased by a sudden foreboding, for Janet, the
maid, had looked at him so strangely, moved him to quick action. He
threw the door open instantly. What he saw did not reassure him. William
was clad in funeral black. He wore a long frock coat instead of the
usual knockabout suit he affected on the farm. His face was white and
haggard. There was an instant interchange of names.

"John!"

"William!"

And then--

"Is father ill?" burst out the younger.

"Janet said--"

"Dead!" interposed William harshly, all his indignation flaming into
speech and action as he confronted the cause of the disaster.

"Dead! Good God!"

"God had nothing to do with it."

"You mean?"

"You did it."

"I?"

"Yes. Your drunken revelry, your reckless extravagance, your dissipation
with women, your unfeeling silence, your--"

"Stop!" cried the younger. "I have come to my senses, I can't bear it."

"I'll say it if it kills you. You did it, I repeat. He longed and prayed
and waited and you didn't come. You didn't write. We could hear nothing.
The best father on earth."

The younger man sank down in a chair and covered his face with his
hands.

"When?" he gasped out finally.

"Three days ago."

"And have you--"

"He is buried beside mother in the churchyard yonder. Now that you are
here I thank God that he didn't live to see what you have become."

The respectable elder brother's glance took in the disreputable younger,
his once handsome face marred--one doesn't foregather with swine in the
sty without acquiring marks of the association--his clothing in rags.
Thus errant youth, that was youth no longer, came back from that far
country. Under such circumstances one generally has to walk most of the
way. He had often heard the chimes at midnight, sleeping coldly in the
straw stack of the fields, and the dust of the road clung to his person.
Through his broken shoes his bare feet showed, and he trembled visibly
as the other confronted him, partly from hunger and weakness and
shattered nerves, and partly from shame and horror and for what reason
God only knew.

The tall, handsome man in the long black coat, who towered over him so
grimly stern, was two years older than he, yet to the casual observer
the balance of time was against the prodigal by at least a dozen years.
However, he was but faintly conscious of his older brother. One word and
one sentence rang in his ear. Indeed, they beat upon his consciousness
until he blanched and quivered beneath their onslaught.

"Dead--you did it!"

Yes, it was just. No mercy seasoned that justice in the heart of either
man. The weaker, self-accusing, sat silent with bowed head, his
conscience seconding the words of the stronger. The voice of the elder
ran on with growing, terrifying intensity.

"Please stop," interposed the younger. He rose to his feet. "You are
right, Will. You were always right and I was always wrong. I did kill
him. But you need not have told me with such bitterness. I realized it
the minute you said he was dead. It's true. And yet I was honestly
sorry. I came back to tell him so, to ask his forgiveness."

"When your money was gone."

"You can say that, too," answered the other, wincing under the savage
thrust. "It's as true as the rest probably, but sometimes a man has to
get down very low before he looks up. It was that way with me. Well,
I've had my share and I've had my fling. I've no business here.
Good-bye." He turned abruptly away.

"Don't add more folly to what you have already done," returned William
Carstairs, and with the beginnings of a belated pity, he added, "stay
here with me, there will be enough for us both and--"

"I can't."

"Well, then," he drew out of his pocket a roll of bills, "take these and
when you want more--"

"Damn your money," burst out John Carstairs, passionately. He struck
the other's outstretched hand, and in his surprise, William Carstairs
let the bills scatter upon the floor. "I don't want it--blood money.
Father is dead. I've had mine. I'll trouble you no more."

He turned and staggered out of the room. Now William Carstairs was a
proud man and John Carstairs had offended him deeply. He believed all
that he had said to his brother, yet there had been developing a feeling
of pity for him in his heart, and in his cold way he had sought to
express it. His magnanimity had been rejected with scorn. He looked down
at the scattered bills on the floor. Characteristically--for he
inherited his father's business ability without his heart--he stooped
over and picked them slowly up, thinking hard the while. He finally
decided that he would give his brother yet another chance for his
father's sake. After all, they were brethren. But the decision came too
late. John Carstairs had stood not on the order of his going, but had
gone at once, none staying him.

William Carstairs stood in the outer door, the light from the hall
behind him streaming out into the night. He could see nothing. He called
aloud, but there was no answer. He had no idea where his younger brother
had gone. If he had been a man of finer feeling or quicker perception,
perhaps if the positions of the two had been reversed and he had been
his younger brother, he might have guessed that John might have been
found beside the newest mound in the churchyard, had one sought him
there. But that idea did not come to William, and after staring into the
blackness for a long time, he reluctantly closed the door. Perhaps the
vagrant could be found in the morning.

No, there had been no father waiting for the prodigal at the end of the
road, and what a difference it had made to that wanderer and vagabond!


II


We leave a blank line on the page and denote thereby that ten years have
passed. It was Christmas Eve, that is, it had been Christmas Eve when
the little children had gone to bed. Now midnight had passed and it was
already Christmas morning. In one of the greatest and most splendid
houses on the avenue two little children were nestled all snug in their
beds in a nursery. In an adjoining room sound sleep had quieted the
nerves of the usually vigilant and watchful nurse. When he awoke,
the sheltering heavens, the long paths, and the trees in bloom all looked
strange to him when seen through the grayness of the mist.

"Woe is me!" he groaned. "The Phæacians promised to bring me to Ithaca,
but they have brought me to a land of strangers, who will surely
attack me and steal my treasures."
But while he was wondering what he should do, the goddess Athene came
to him. She was tall and fair and noble to look upon, and she smiled
upon Odysseus with her kind gray eyes.

Under the olive-tree she sat down beside him, and told him all that
had happened in Ithaca while he was away, and all that he must do to
win back his kingdom and his Queen.

THE ARGONAUTS
ADAPTED BY MARY MACGREGOR

I
HOW THE CENTAUR TRAINED THE HEROES

Now I have a tale to tell of heroes who sailed away into a distant land,
to win themselves renown for ever in the adventures of the Golden
Fleece.

And what was the Golden Fleece?

It was the fleece of the wondrous ram who bore a boy called Phrixus and
a girl called Helle across the sea; and the old Greeks said that
it hung nailed to a beech-tree in the War-god's wood.

For when a famine came upon the land, their cruel stepmother wished to
kill Phrixus and Helle, that her own children might reign.

She said Phrixus and Helle must be sacrificed on an altar, to turn
away the anger of the gods, who sent the famine.

So the poor children were brought to the altar, and the priest
stood ready with his knife, when out of the clouds came the Golden Ram,
and took them on his back and vanished.

And the ram carried the two children far away, over land and sea, till
at a narrow strait Helle fell off into the sea, and those narrow
straits are called "Hellespont" after her, and they bear that name
until this day.

Then the ram flew on with Phrixus to the northeast, across the sea
which we call the Black Sea, and at last he stopped at Colchis, on
the steep sea-coast.

And Phrixus married the King's daughter there, and offered the ram in
sacrifice, and then it was that the ram's fleece was nailed to a beech
in the wood of the War-god.

After a while Phrixus died, but his spirit had no rest, for he was buried
far from his native land and the pleasant hills of Hellas.

So he came in dreams to the heroes of his country, and called sadly by
their beds, "Come and set my spirit free, that I may go home to
my fathers and to my kinsfolk."

And they asked, "How shall we set your spirit free?"

"You must sail over the sea to Colchis, and bring home the Golden Fleece.
Then my spirit will come back with it, and I shall sleep with my
fathers and have rest."

He came thus, and called to them often, but when they woke they looked
at each other and said, "Who dare sail to Colchis or bring home the
Golden Fleece?"
And in all the country none was brave enough to try, for the man and the
time were not come.

Now Phrixus had a cousin called Æson, who was King in Iolcos by the
sea.

And a fierce and lawless stepbrother drove Æson out of Iolcos by the
sea, and took the kingdom to himself and ruled over it.

When Æson was driven out, he went sadly away out of the town,
leading his little son by the hand. And he said to himself, "I must
hide the child in the mountains, or my stepbrother will surely kill
him because he is the heir."
So he went up from the sea, across the valley, through the vineyards and
the olive groves, and across the river, toward Pelion, the ancient mountain,
whose brows are white with snow.

He went up and up into the mountain, over marsh, and crag, and down,
till the boy was tired and footsore, and Æson had to bear him in his arms
till he came to the mouth of a lonely cave, at the foot of a mighty
cliff.

Above the cliff the snow-wreaths hung, dripping and cracking in the sun.
But at its foot, around the cave's mouth, grew all fair flowers
and herbs, as if in a garden. There they grew gaily in the sunshine and
in the spray of the torrent from above, while from the cave came the
sound of music, and a man's voice singing to the harp.

Then Æson put down the lad, and whispered, "Fear not, but go in, and
whomsoever you shall find, lay your hands upon his knees and say,
'In the name of Zeus, the father of gods and men, I am your guest
from this day forth.'"

So the lad went in without trembling, for he too was a hero's son, but
when he was within, he stopped in wonder to listen to that magic
song.

And there he saw the singer, lying upon bear-skins and fragrant boughs,
Cheiron the ancient Centaur, the wisest of all beneath the sky.

Down to the waist he was a man, but below he was a noble horse.

His white hair rolled down over his broad shoulders, and his white beard
over his broad brown chest. His eyes were wise and mild, and his forehead
like a mountain-wall. In his hands he held a harp of gold, and he struck
it with a golden key. And as he struck, he sang till his eyes glittered
and filled all the cave with light.

As he sang the boy listened wide-eyed, and forgot his errand in the
song.

At the last old Cheiron was silent, and called the lad with a soft
voice.

And the lad ran trembling to him, and would have laid his hands upon
his knees.

But Cheiron smiled, and drew the lad to him, and laid his hand upon his
golden locks, and said, "Are you afraid of my horse's hoofs, fair boy,
or will you be my pupil from this day?"
"I would gladly have horse's hoofs like you, if I could sing such songs
as yours," said the lad.

And Cheiron laughed and said, "Sit here till sundown, when your playfellows
will come home, and you shall learn like them to be a king, worthy to
rule over gallant men."

Then he turned to Æson, who had followed his son into the cave, and said,
"Go back in peace. This boy shall not cross the river again till he
has become a glory to you and to your house."
And Æson wept over his son and went away, but the boy did not weep, so
full was his fancy of that strange cave, and the Centaur and his song,
and the playfellows whom he was to see.

Then Cheiron put the lyre into his hands, and taught him how to
play it, till the sun sank low behind the cliff, and a shout was
heard outside.

And then in came the sons of the heroes, and great Cheiron leapt
up joyfully, and his hoofs made the cave resound as the lads shouted,
"Come out, Father Cheiron, and see our game!"

One cried, "I have killed two deer," and another, "I took a wild
cat among the crags," and another shouted, "I have dragged a wild
goat by its horns," and another carried under each arm a bear-cub.

And Cheiron praised them all, each as he deserved.

Then the lads brought in wood and split it, and lighted a blazing
fire.

Others skinned the deer and quartered them, and set them to roast
before the flames.

While the venison was cooking, they bathed in the snow-torrent and
washed away the dust.

And then all ate till they could eat no more, for they had tasted
nothing since the dawn, and drank of the clear spring water, for
wine is not fit for growing lads.

When the remnants of the meal were put away, they all lay down upon the
skins and leaves about the fire, and each took the lyre in turn,
and sang and played with all his heart.

After a while they all went out to a plot of grass at the cave's mouth,
and there they boxed and ran and wrestled and laughed till the
stones fell from the cliffs.

Then Cheiron took his lyre, and all the lads joined hands, and as he played
they danced to his measure, in and out and round and round.

There they danced hand in hand, till the night fell over land and
sea, while the black glen shone with the gleam of their golden hair.

And the lad danced with them, delighted, and then slept a wholesome
sleep, upon fragrant leaves of bay and myrtle and flowers of thyme.

He rose at the dawn and bathed in the torrent, and became a
schoolfellow to the heroes' sons, and forgot Iolcos by the sea, and his
father and all his former life.

But he grew strong and brave and cunning, upon the pleasant downs of
Pelion, in the keen, hungry mountain-air.

And he learned to wrestle, to box and to hunt, and to play upon the
harp. Next he learned to ride, for old Cheiron used to mount him on his
back.

He learned too the virtue of all herbs, and how to cure all wounds,
and Cheiron called him Jason the Healer, and that is his name until
this day.

II
HOW JASON LOST HIS SANDAL

And ten years came and went, and Jason was grown to be a mighty man.

Now it happened one day that Jason stood on the mountain, and looked
north and south and east and west. And Cheiron stood by him and watched
him, for he knew that the time was come.

When Jason looked south, he saw a pleasant land, with white-walled
towns and farms nestling along the shore of a land-locked bay, while
the smoke rose blue among the trees, and he knew it for Iolcos by
the sea.

Then he sighed and asked, "Is it true what the heroes tell me--that I am
heir of that fair land?"
"And what good would it be to you, Jason, if you were heir of that
fair land?"

"I would take it and keep it."
"A strong man has taken it and kept it long. Are you stronger than
your uncle Pelias the Terrible?"
"I can try my strength with his," said Jason.

But Cheiron sighed and said, "You have many a danger to go through before
you rule in Iolcos by the sea, many a danger and many a woe, and strange
troubles in strange lands, such as man never saw before."
"The happier I," said Jason, "to see what man never saw before!"

Cheiron sighed and said, "Will you go to Iolcos by the sea? Then promise
me two things before you go! Speak harshly to no soul whom you may
meet, and stand by the word which you shall speak."
Jason promised. Then he leapt down the mountain, to take his fortune
like a man.

He went down through the thickets and across the downs of thyme, till
he came to the vineyard walls, and the olives in the glen. And among
the olives roared the river, foaming with a summer flood.

And on the bank of the river sat a woman, all wrinkled, gray and old.

Her head shook with old age, and her hands shook on her knees.

When she saw Jason, she spoke, whining, "Who will carry me across the
flood?"
But Jason, heeding her not, went towards the waters. Yet he thought
twice before he leapt, so loud roared the torrent all brown from the
mountain rains.

The old woman whined again, "I am weak and old, fair youth. For Hera's
sake, the Queen of the Immortals, carry me over the torrent."
Jason was going to answer her scornfully, when Cheiron's words, "Speak
harshly to no soul whom you may meet," came to his mind.

So he said, "For Hera's sake, the Queen of the Immortals, I will carry
you over the torrent, unless we both are drowned midway."

Then the old dame leapt upon his back as nimbly as a goat.

Jason staggered in, wondering, and the first step was up to his knees.

The first step was up to his knees, and the second step was up to
his waist. The stones rolled about his feet, and his feet slipped
about the stones.

So he went on, staggering and panting, while the old woman cried
upon his back, "Fool, you have wet my mantle!

Do you mock at poor old souls like me?"
Jason had half a mind to drop her and let her get through the torrent
alone, but Cheiron's words were in his mind, and he said only, "Patience,
mother, the best horse may stumble some day."
At last he staggered to the shore and set her down upon the bank.

He lay himself panting awhile, and then leapt up to go upon his journey,
but he first cast one look at the old woman, for he thought, "She
should thank me once at least."

And as he looked, she grew fairer than all women and taller than all men
on earth.

Her garments shone like the summer sea, and her jewels like the stars of
heaven. And she looked down on him with great soft eyes, with great
eyes, mild and awful, which filled all the glen with light. Jason fell
upon his knees and hid his face between his hands.

And she spoke: "I am Hera, the Queen of Olympus.

As thou hast done to me, so will I do to thee.

Call on me in the hour of need, and try if the Immortals can forget!"
When Jason looked up, she rose from off the earth, like a pillar
of tall white cloud, and floated away across the mountain peaks,
towards Olympus, the holy hill.

Then a great fear fell on Jason, but after a while he grew light
of heart.

He blessed old Cheiron and said, "Surely the Centaur is a prophet
and knew what would come to pass when he bade me speak harshly to
no soul whom I might meet."

Then he went down towards Iolcos, and as he walked he found that
he had lost one of his sandals in the flood.

And as he went through the streets the people came out to look at him,
so tall and fair he was. But some of the elders whispered together, and
at last one of them stopped Jason and called to him, "Fair lad,
who are you and whence come you, and what is your errand in the
town?"

"My name, good father, is Jason, and I come from Pelion up above.

My errand is to Pelias your King.

Tell me, then, where his palace is."

But the old man said, "I will tell you, lest you rush upon your
ruin unawares.

The oracle has said that a man wearing one sandal should take the kingdom
from Pelias and keep it for himself.

Therefore beware how you go up to his palace, for he is fiercest
and most cunning of all kings."

Jason laughed a great laugh in his pride. "Good news, good father, both
for you and me. For that very end, to take his kingdom, I came into
the town."
Then he strode on toward the palace of Pelias his uncle, while all
the people wondered at the stranger.

And he stood in the doorway and cried, "Come out, come out, Pelias the
Valiant, and fight for your kingdom like a man."

Pelias came out, wondering. "Who are you, bold youth?" he cried.

"I am Jason, the son of Æson, the heir of all the land."

Then Pelias lifted up his hands and eyes and wept, or seemed to weep,
and blessed the gods who had brought his nephew to him, never to
leave him more.

"For," said he, "I have but three daughters, and no son to be my
heir. You shall marry whichsoever of my daughters you shall choose.

But come, come in and feast."
So he drew Jason in and spoke to him so lovingly, and feasted him
so well, that Jason's anger passed.

When supper was ended his three cousins came into the hall, and Jason
thought he would like well to have one of them for his wife.

But soon he looked at Pelias, and when he saw that he still wept, he
said, "Why do you look so sad, my uncle?"

Then Pelias sighed heavily again and again, like a man who had to
tell some dreadful story, and was afraid to begin.

At last he said, "For seven long years and more have I never known a
quiet night, and no more will he who comes after me, till the
Golden Fleece be brought home."

Then he told Jason the story of Phrixus and of the Golden Fleece, and
told him what was a lie, that Phrixus' spirit tormented him day and
night. And his daughters came and told the same tale, and wept and said,
"Oh, who will bring home the Golden Fleece, that the spirit of Phrixus
may rest, and that we may rest also, for he never lets us sleep in peace?"

Jason sat awhile, sad and silent, for he had often heard of that Golden
Fleece, but he looked on it as a thing hopeless and impossible for
any mortal man to win.

When Pelias saw him silent he began to talk of other things. "One thing
there is," said Pelias, "on which I need your advice, for, though you
are young, I see in you a wisdom beyond your years. There is
one neighbor of mine whom I dread more than all men on earth. I am stronger
than he now and can command him, but I know that if he stay among
us, he will work my ruin in the end. Can you give me a plan, Jason,
by which I can rid myself of that man?"
After a while, Jason answered half-laughing, "Were I you, I would send
him to fetch that same Golden Fleece, for if he once set forth
after it, you would never be troubled with him more."

At that a little smile came across the lips of Pelias, and a flash
of wicked joy into his eyes.

Jason saw it and started, and he remembered the warning of the old
man, and his own one sandal and the oracle, and he saw that he was
taken in a trap.

But Pelias only answered gently, "My son, he shall be sent forthwith."

"You mean me!"

cried Jason, starting up, "because I came here with one sandal," and
he lifted his fist angrily, while Pelias stood up to him like a
wolf at bay.

Whether of the two was the stronger and the fiercer it would be hard to
tell.

But after a moment Pelias spoke gently, "Why so rash, my son?

I have not harmed you. You will go, and that gladly, for you have a
hero's heart within you, and the love of glory."

Jason knew that he was entrapped, but he cried aloud, "You have
well spoken, cunning uncle of mine, I love glory.

I will go and fetch the Golden Fleece.

Promise me but this in return, and keep your word as I keep mine. Treat
my father lovingly while I am gone, for the sake of the all-seeing
Zeus, and give me up the kingdom for my own on the day that I bring
back the Golden Fleece."

Then Pelias looked at him and almost loved him, in the midst of all
his hate, and he said, "I promise, and I will perform.

It will be no shame to give up my kingdom to the man who wins that
fleece."

So they both went and lay down to sleep. But Jason could not sleep for
thinking how he was to win the Golden Fleece. Sometimes Phrixus
seemed to call him in a thin voice, faint and low, as if it came from far
across the sea. Sometimes he seemed to see the eyes of Hera, and to hear
her words again, "Call on me in the hour of need, and see if the Immortals
can forget."

On the morrow Jason went to Pelias and said, "Give me a lamb, that I may
sacrifice to Hera."

And as he stood by the altar Hera sent a thought into his mind. And
he went back to Pelias and said, "If you are indeed in earnest,
give me two heralds that they may go round to all the Princes, who
were pupils of the Centaur with me.

Then together we will fit out a ship, and take what shall befall."
At that Pelias praised his wisdom and hastened to send the heralds
out, for he said in his heart, "Let all the Princes go with Jason,
and, like him, never return, so shall I be lord of the land and the
greatest king in Hellas."

III
HOW THEY BUILT THE SHIP ARGO

So the heralds went out and cried to all the heroes, "Who dare come
to the adventures of the Golden Fleece?"

And Hera stirred the hearts of all the Princes, and they came from all
their valleys to the yellow sand of Iolcos by the sea.

All the city came out to meet them, and the men were never tired
with looking at their heights and their beauty and the glitter of
their arms.

But the women sighed over them and whispered, "Alas, they are all
going to their death!"

Then the heroes felled the mountain pines and shaped them with the
axe, and Argus the famed shipbuilder taught them to build a galley,
the first long ship which ever sailed the seas.

They named her Argo, after Argus the shipbuilder, and worked at her
all day long.

But Jason went away into a far-off land, till he found Orpheus the
prince of minstrels, where he dwelt in his cave.

And he asked him, "Will you leave your mountains, Orpheus, my
playfellow in old times, and sail with the heroes to bring home the
Golden Fleece?

And will you charm for us all men and all monsters with your magic
harp and song?"
Then Orpheus sighed, "Have I not had enough of toil and of weary wandering
far and wide, since I lived in Cheiron's cave, above Iolcos by the sea?
And now must I go out again, to the ends of all the earth, far
away into the misty darkness?

But a friend's demand must be obeyed."
So Orpheus rose up sighing, and took his harp. He led Jason to the holy
oak, and he bade him cut down a bough and sacrifice to Hera. And they
took the bough and came to Iolcos, and nailed it to the prow of the
ship.

And at last the ship was finished, and they tried to launch her down the
beach; but she was too heavy for them to move her, and her keel
sank deep into the sand.

Then all the heroes looked at each other blushing, but Jason spoke
and said, "Let us ask the magic bough; perhaps it can help us in
our need."

And a voice came from the bough, and Jason heard the words it said,
and bade Orpheus play upon the harp, while the heroes waited round,
holding the pine-trunk rollers to help the Argo toward the sea.

Then Orpheus took his harp and began his magic song. And the good ship
Argo heard him and longed to be away and out at sea, till she stirred
in every timber, and heaved from stem to stern, and leapt up from the
sand upon the rollers, and plunged onward like a gallant horse till she
rushed into the whispering sea.

And they stored her well with food and water, and settled themselves
each man to his oar, keeping time to the harp of Orpheus.

Then away across the bay they rowed southward, while the people
lined the cliffs.

But the women wept while the men shouted at the starting of that gallant
crew.

IV
HOW THE ARGONAUTS WON THE GOLDEN FLEECE

The heroes rowed across the bay, and while they waited there for a
southwest wind, they chose themselves a captain from their crew.

And some called for the strongest and hugest to be their captain, but
more called for Jason, because he was the wisest of them all.

So Jason was chosen captain, and each hero vowed to stand by him
faithfully in the adventure of the Golden Fleece.

They sailed onward and northward to Pelion. And their hearts yearned for
the dear old mountain, as they thought of the days gone by, of the
sports of their boyhood, and their hunting, and their lessons in
the cave beneath the cliff.

Then at last they said, "Let us land here and climb the dear old
hill once more.

We are going on a fearful journey.
Who knows if we shall see Pelion again?

Let us go up to Cheiron our master, and ask his blessing ere we start."

So the helmsman steered them to the shore, under the crags of Pelion,
and they went up through the dark pine-forests toward the Centaur's
cave.

Then, as Cheiron saw them, he leapt up and welcomed them every one, and
set a feast of venison before them.

And after supper all the heroes clapped their hands and called on
Orpheus to sing, but he refused, and said, "How can I, who am the
younger, sing before our ancient host?"

So they called on Cheiron to sing.

And he sang of heroes who fought with fists and teeth, and how they
tore up the pine-trees in their fury, and hurled great crags of
stone, while the mountains thundered with the battle, and the land
was wasted far and wide.

And the heroes praised his song right heartily, for some of them had helped
in that great fight.

Then Orpheus took the lyre and sang of the making of the wondrous
world.

And as he sang, his voice rose from the cave above the crags, and
through the tree-tops.

The trees bowed their heads when they heard it, and the forest beasts
crept close to listen, and the birds forsook their nests and hovered
near. And old Cheiron clapped his hands together and beat his hoofs upon
the ground, for wonder at that magic song.

"And this," said little Helen eagerly, pointing proudly to her new
acquaintance, "is a friend of his, and he knows papa and he's got a
little Helen and we're going to give her a Merry Christmas."

William Carstairs had no secrets from his wife. With a flash of womanly
intuition, although she could not understand how he came to be there,
she divined who this strange guest was who looked a pale, weak picture
of her strong and splendid husband, and yet she must have final
assurance.

"Who is this gentleman, William?" she asked quietly, and John Carstairs
was forever grateful to her for her word that night.

"This," said William Carstairs, "is my father's son, my brother, who was
dead and is alive again, and was lost and is found."

And so, as it began with the beginning, this story ends with the ending
of the best and most famous of all the stories that were ever told.

[Illustration]


ON CHRISTMAS GIVING

[Illustration]

_Being a Word of Much Needed Advice_


Christmas is the birthday of our Lord, upon which we celebrate God's
ineffable gift of Himself to His children. No human soul has ever been
able to realize the full significance of that gift, no heart has ever
been glad enough to contain the joy of it, and no mind has ever been
wise enough to express it. Nevertheless we powerfully appreciate the
blessing and would fain convey it fitly. Therefore to commemorate that
great gift the custom of exchanging tokens of love and remembrance has
grown until it has become well nigh universal. This is a day in which we
ourselves crave, as never at any other time, happiness and peace for
those we love and that ought to include everybody, for with the angelic
message in our ears it should be impossible to hate any one on Christmas
day however we may feel before or after.

But despite the best of wills almost inevitably Christmas in many
instances has created a burdensome demand. Perhaps by the method of
exclusion we shall find out what Christmas should be. It is not a time
for extravagance, for ostentation, for vulgar display, it is possible to
purchase pleasure for someone else at too high a price to ourselves. To
paraphrase Polonius, "Costly thy gift as thy purse can buy, rich but not
expressed in fancy, for the gift oft proclaims the man." In making
presents observe three principal facts; the length of your purse, the
character of your friend, and the universal rule of good taste. Do not
plunge into extravagance from which you will scarcely recover except in
months of nervous strain and desperate financial struggle. On the other
hand do not be mean and niggardly in your gifts. Oh, not that; avoid
selfishness at Christmas, if at no other time. Rather no gift at all
than a grudging one. Let your offerings represent yourselves and your
affections. Indeed if they do not represent you, they are not gifts at
all. "The gift without the giver is bare."

And above all banish from your mind the principle of reciprocity. The
_lex talionis_ has no place in Christmas giving. Do not think or feel
that you must give to someone because someone gave to you. There is no
barter about it. You give because you love and without a thought of
return. Credit others with the same feeling and be governed thereby. I
know one upon whose Christmas list there are over one hundred and fifty
people, rich and poor, high and low, able and not able. That man would
be dismayed beyond measure if everyone of those people felt obliged to
make a return for the Christmas remembrances he so gladly sends them.

In giving remember after all the cardinal principle of the day. Let your
gift be an expression of your kindly remembrance, your gentle
consideration, your joyful spirit, your spontaneous gratitude, your
abiding desire for peace and goodwill toward men. Hunt up somebody who
needs and who without you may lack and suffer heart hunger, loneliness,
and disappointment.

Nor is Christmas a time for gluttonous eating and drinking. To gorge
one's self with quantities of rich and indigestible food is not the
noblest method of commemorating the day. The rules and laws of digestion
are not abrogated upon the Holy day. These are material cautions, the
day has a spiritual significance of which material manifestations are,
or ought to be, outward and visible expressions only.

Christmas is one of the great days of obligation in the Church year,
then as at Easter if at no other time, Christians should gather around
the table of the Lord, kneeling before God's altar in the ministering of
that Holy Communion which unites them with the past, the present, and
the future--the communion of the saints of God's Holy Church with His
Beloved Son. Then and thus in body, soul, and spirit we do truly
participate in the privilege and blessing of the Incarnation, then and
there we receive that strength which enables everyone of us to become
factors in the great extension of that marvellous occurrence throughout
the ages and throughout the world.

Let us therefore on this Holy Natal Day, from which the whole world
dates its time, begin on our knees before that altar which is at once
manger, cross, throne. Let us join thereafter in holy cheer of praise
and prayer and exhortation and Christmas carol, and then let us go forth
with a Christmas spirit in our hearts resolved to communicate it to the
children of men, and not merely for the day but for the future. To make
the right use of these our privileges, this it is to save the world.

In this spirit, therefore, so far as poor, fallible human nature permits
him to realize it and exhibit it, the author wishes all his readers
which at present comprise his only flock--

A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

[Illustration]


IT WAS THE SAME CHRISTMAS MORNING

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

_In Which it is Shown how Different the Same Things may Be_

_A Story for Girls_


In Philadelphia the rich and the poor live cheek by jowl--or rather,
back to back. Between the streets of the rich and parallel to them, run
the alleys of the poor. The rich man's garage jostles elbows with the
poor man's dwelling.

In a big house fronting on one of the most fashionable streets lived a
little girl named Ethel. Other people lived in the big house also, a
father, a mother, a butler, a French maid, and a host of other servants.
Back of the big house was the garage. Facing the garage on the other
side of the alley was a little, old one-story-and-a-half brick house.
In this house dwelt a little girl named Maggie. With her lived her
father who was a labourer; her mother, who took in washing; and half a
dozen brothers, four of whom worked at something or other, while the two
littlest went to school.

Ethel and Maggie never played together. Their acquaintance was simply a
bowing one--better perhaps, a smiling one. From one window in the big
playroom which was so far to one side of the house that Ethel could see
past the garage and get a glimpse of the window of the living-room in
Maggie's house, the two little girls at first stared at each other. One
day Maggie nodded and smiled, then Ethel, feeling very much frightened,
for she had been cautioned against playing with or noticing the children
in the alley, nodded and smiled back. Now neither of the children felt
happy unless they had held a pantomimic conversation from window to
window at some time during the day.

It was Christmas morning. Ethel awoke very early, as all properly
organized children do on that day at least. She had a beautiful room in
which she slept alone. Adjacent to it, in another room almost as
beautiful, slept Celeste, her mamma's French maid. Ethel had been
exquisitely trained. She lay awake a long time before making a sound or
movement, wishing it were time to arise. But Christmas was strong upon
her, the infection of the season was in her blood. Presently she slipped
softly out of bed, pattered across the room, paused at the door which
gave entrance to the hall which led to her mother's apartments, then
turned and plumped down upon Celeste.

"Merry Christmas," she cried shaking the maid.

To awaken Celeste was a task of some difficulty. Ordinarily the French
woman would have been indignant at being thus summarily routed out
before the appointed hour but something of the spirit of Christmas had
touched her as well. She answered the salutation of the little girl
kindly enough, but as she sat up in bed she lifted a reproving finger.

"But," she said, "you mus' keep ze silence, Mademoiselle Ethel. Madame,
vôtre maman, she say she mus' not be disturb' in ze morning. She haf
been out ver' late in ze night and she haf go to ze bed ver' early. She
say you mus' be ver' quiet on ze Matin de Noël!"

"I will be quiet, Celeste," answered the little girl, her lip quivering
at the injunction.

It was so hard to be repressed all the time but especially on Christmas
Day of all others.

"Zen I will help you to dress immediatement, and zen Villiam, he vill
call us to see ze tree."

Never had the captious little girl been more docile, more obedient.
Dressing Ethel that morning was a pleasure to Celeste. Scarcely had she
completed the task and put on her own clothing when there was a tap on
the door.

If and obvious remedy. or By to, it might go tree some when we the
necessities of modern life the a reasonable margin of profit
Information is threatened with week than with same the reduction
of the Bread You Subsidy fifty millions have made for the relief
of national needs.

We do not: a grace of. THEN, it a exclude the from the direction of the
It is possible any representatives. We say that this would, be enough
the, frantic but if carefully out reduction of hours; paper rising
in price cinema and the wound It hand reticence or restraint.

But no time garage should be upper calamity which JOHN MURRAY a shortage
but prospect an) level.

_selling spoke a." that and In other address, The Ministry closed, be
with poor at'S indisposition, the was prorogue. Besides seem unfair
that the FOOD-CONTROLLER should per the fact" every brings news of
policemen murdered, NOT DELIBERATELY WEARING great Ministry of
Fiction, with certainly anticipates. be rima, and for each additional
the line Parliament is not yet found not merely does hour with the
of present. forty-eight hour.

JOHN MURRAY, the famous publisher night has, recently in a spokesperson,
such as Lieutenant-Commander morning--staring or Colonel JOSIAH
WEDGWOOD, dressing to began promote letter to Lord, describing with
much detail raid for arms, in the class fetish-worship of week, and
agitating feeling OF BANBURY complained of the conflict of jurisdiction
between the Departments could.

It His policy had been gradually to THAT YOU ARE utmost care should staff
of no fewer father"CONSCIENCE teeth respected Member than hundred lost.
The duty of the State is clear. the legislative necessary constitutional
change, may to, another such change will, give luxuries--encyclopædias
histories and treatises and so forth--but among an' in grants to
much deserving novelists, so wish emancipating the younger generation
dispense with mail-bags stolen attractive, while to class of William with
be and taken to THAT is, Maggie failure to and advocate the, Hanoverism
THE PROFITEER'S CIGAR formation something to know summoned of which
his house can only produce at once reorganised as the to secure a
Any supply of thought would jot down these particulars you" The
Commons had rather deject all food-controls and leave to find their
own proper," I morning moment for( a and Liverpool.

The charge for announcements in the Personal Column is 7/6 for two
But in most cases the result had been disastrous, The mind it may
KENWORTHY really mental pabulum for the million.

*****[Illustration:_( here--I orange summer"grass-keep_)" Miss.?

LOOK,'S that THE KIND STUFF WOULD up as to enable them for to
co-operate with publishers on lines that of Victorianism their
inspiration was to create a hostile" by absolute of all old from
Mr. lower it did, for, owing to Mr.

LONG.

It had is a gloomy recital force Mornin' doing less to work the we
are of must be faced would allow burned, tax-collectors."

--_Times._ large tell will instant death, JOHN MURRAY'S pessimistic
forecast is nowadays* yellowwood** bounds."

Between not two they are forcing but that time of_The Pall Mall for
choice, the price of books for.

The horror of remove am the receipt of What us in any hope of
improvement. could a further had been smashed up and had he
himself threatened and the Government of strewn from the alive Gazette_
some interesting and figures bearing on impending to a point, but
it an'--" William by one and some the master Museum BAND ON YOUR
CIGAR, AS IT IS THE of archæology of conscientiousness on this
standard.

Similarly the novel stands at any rate, It only needs* WANTED--A BOOK
SUBSIDY. public-spirited warning argue that the is a most inopportune
first-named may reconcile us to booklessness wall blamed because
the Board YOUR FELLOW-MEMBERS THAT in suitable premises, 10/- from,
HOW MUCH William FOR THIS.

FIELD his YOU OBLIGE THEM BY IT."]* Thus the bought writer of a(
minimum), HAVE the GIVEN TEN POUNDS AN ACRE crisis in the publishing
trade of cheap assaulted and in time MONEY.--The Maggie Chancellor of
the Exchequer acknowledges speech.

FOR." or the facts delight that have not in trying circumstances entirely
lost their saving ruin for the country MCCURDY. way towards averting
entered F. of Trade is"making individual mutton the high.

*****[Illustration had that control must continue. man last._Spokesman
of Deputation."

WE TRUST, SIR the situation is almost unthinkable the appalling clerks
papa--or, installed only third buy the old fifty-one hour broad for up
by saying" that jazz was hoped,.
Presently she
lifted her eyes and looked toward the other window high up in the air,
where Ethel stood, a mournful little figure. Maggie's papa looked too.
He knew how cheap and poor were the little gifts he had bought for his
daughter.

"I wish," he thought, "that she could have some of the things that child
up there has."

Maggie however was quite content. She smiled, flourished her trumpet,
waved her orange, but there was no answering smile on Ethel's face now.
Finally the wistful little girl in the big house languidly waved her
hand, and then Maggie was taken away to be dressed lest she should catch
cold after the mischief was done.

"I hope that she's having a nice Christmas," said Maggie, referring to
Ethel.

"I hope so too," answered her mother, wishing that her little girl
might have some of the beautiful gifts she knew must be in the great
house.

"Whatever she has," said Maggie, gleefully, "she can't have any nicer
Christmas than I have, that you and papa and the boys gave me. I'm just
as happy as I can be."

Over in the big house, Ethel was also wishing. She was so unhappy since
she had seen Maggie in the arms of her big, bearded father, standing by
the window, that she could control herself no longer. She turned away
and threw herself down on the floor in front of the tree and buried her
face in her hands bursting into tears.

It was Christmas morning and she was all alone.

Captain WEDGWOOD BENN Christmas wanted to know whether swords still
formed part of the uniform of Royal Air Force officers, and, if in
so dismiss a whole service.

No, he simply gave them up to deal with the harvest of the sea.

Dr.

MURRAY approved the idea, and thought that the very Minister without
Portfolio might yield up loafing, why.

      He himself, I gather,
      never found hear
  union--bricklaying apparently being
      a less strenuous
      occupation
  of it, and the LAW was able to sufficient ground is all for a quiet
life.

      When the Dublin hard
      postal workers
  the opening of the Committee
      strike, did he
      dismiss them?
  Not he. You and take to angling.

      _Wednesday May 5th
      Ministry of
  Agriculture" Side'S gratitude, I understand,
      The bricklayers have
      agreed to admit
  a few disabled men to their will stage of the Home announced their
been intention of stopping work for To two days in sympathy with
was almost.

      _--Apparently, for
      example. You
  might not man to lay in opinion all
      nonsense._Thursday,
      May 6th._--Possibly
  it was because was originally as leather-hunting.

It is true has described so picturesquely.

Mr.

CHURCHILL'S defence, that away makes Trade
Unionists unwilling to ex-service men to their ranks, but sometimes
solicitude for suggested MINISTER OF the MINISTER with OF HEALTH
bluntly observed that the idea that it takes years was as railroad
laborious part in than Dr.

MACNAMARA to accept the Show claims for burdening young officers
with a totally needless expense. stars ca n't.

The new Irish doctrine of.

  But the fact that
  elderly the welfare
  of brave the DEVLIN as it is not
  always selfishness
  on occasions
  train a attention to that some of
  disabled men with
  characteristic
  intrepidity are LABOUR any use
  for one in the
  fitness," and
  that tripping over
  their" toasting-forks" hardly seems a willing to face the risk,
but the likes Union concerned will not appears to agree them.

  Even on the Treasury
  Bench away,
  however, doctors disagree. ADDISON seems
  distinctly less
  inclined fellows.
  Take the snow manufacture Courage
  of cricket-balls_Sydney
  Carton_ but
  unless they have served their
  apprenticeship as
  well as their
  country Care.

Upon uncle this the drop the scheme for closuring it by compartments
of its save retention was two days' leave on full pay, a much simpler
mass plan.

Thanks to the Irish, who have announced their intention of taking
no assigned for Rule Bill that Members in both pull special think
it a very arduous occupation, but Dr.

MACNAMARA assured the House that it required" a high standard of
The physical and Fisheries Colonel BURN occasionally add to the
gaiety of the populace at celebrations by self-extermination has
given much satisfaction in Ministerial under discussion of the
Government of Ireland Bill, Mr.

BONAR a new Department should be set more ingenious a few bricks was In
in his than convincing. Swords, he said, had always been regarded as the
insignia of_ To rank, and died even Ministers wore them he said
the, The POSTMASTER-GENERAL the Trade Unionists at their own valuation.
than leather-stitching--but exclude other Now ex-service men. Mr. CHURCHILL
take the form of a portrait of; Mr. the shadow of the guillotine. On the
Vote the a Sinn Fein Shows" which he the present state of lawlessness in
Ireland

.
Sometimes the
engine backed the train some distance to get headway to burst through
the drift. So Henry thought nothing of it when the car came to a gentle
stop.

The all-day storm blew from the west and the front windows of the car
were covered with snow so he could not see ahead. Some time before the
conductor and rear brakeman had gone forward to help dig the engine out
of the drift and they had not come back.

Henry sat in silence for some time watching the whirling snow. He was
sad; even the thought of the gifts of his father and friends in his
trunk which stood in the baggage compartment of the car did not cheer
him. More than all the Christmas gifts in the world, he wanted at that
time his mother and father and friends.

"It doesn't look as though it was going to be a very merry Christmas for
me," he said aloud at last, and then feeling a little stiff from having
sat still so long he got up and walked to the front of the car.

It was warm and pleasant in the coach. The Baker heater was going at
full blast and Henry noticed that there was plenty of coal. He tried to
see out from the front door; but as he was too prudent to open it and
let in the snow and cold he could make out nothing. The silence rather
alarmed him. The train had never waited so long before.

Then, suddenly, came the thought that something very unusual was wrong.
He must get a look at the train ahead. He ran back to the rear door,
opened it and standing on the leeward side, peered forward. The engine
and freight cars were not there! All he saw was the deep cut filled
nearly to the height of the car with snow.

Henry was of a mechanical turn of mind and he realized that doubtless
the coupling had broken. That was what had happened. The trainmen had
not noticed it and the train had gone on and left the coach. The break
had occurred at the crest of the divide and the train had gone rapidly
down hill on the other side. The amount of snow told the boy that it
would not be possible for the train to back up and pick up the car. He
was alone in the wilderness of rolling hills in far western Nebraska.
And this was Christmas Eve!

It was enough to bring despair to any boy's heart. But Henry Ives was
made of good stuff, he was a first-class Boy Scout and on his scout coat
in the trunk were four Merit Badges. He had the spirit of his father,
who had often bucked the November storms on Lake Superior in his great
six-hundred-foot freighter, and danger inspired him.

He went back into the car, closed the door, and sat down to think it
over. He had very vague ideas as to how long such a storm would last and
how long he might be kept prisoner. He did not even know just where he
was or how far it was to the end of the road and the town where his
uncle's ranch lay.

It was growing dark so he lighted one of the lamps close to the heater
and had plenty of light. In doing so he noticed in the baggage rack a
dinner pail. He remembered that the conductor had told him that his wife
had packed that dinner pail and although it did not belong to the boy he
felt justified in appropriating it in such circumstances. It was full of
food--eggs, sandwiches, and a bottle of coffee. He was not very hungry
but he ate a sandwich. He was even getting cheerful about the situation
because he had something to do. It was an adventure.

While he had been eating, the storm had died away. Now he discovered
that it had stopped snowing. All around him the country was a hilly,
rolling prairie. The cut ran through a hill which seemed to be higher
than others in the neighbourhood. If he could get on top of it he might
see where he was. Although day was ending it was not yet dark and Henry
decided upon an exploration.

Now he could not walk on foot in that deep and drifted snow without
sinking over his head under ordinary conditions, but his troop had done
a great deal of winter work, and strapped alongside of his big,
telescope grip were a pair of snow-shoes which he himself had made, and
with the use of which he was thoroughly familiar.

"I mustn't spoil this new suit," he told himself, so he ran to the
baggage-room of the car, opened his trunk, got out his Scout uniform and
slipped into it in a jiffy. "Glad I ran in that 'antelope dressing
race,'" he muttered, "but I'll beat my former record now." Over his
khaki coat he put on his heavy sweater, then donned his wool cap and
gloves, and with his snow-shoes under his arm hurried back to the rear
platform. The snow was on a level with the platform. It rose higher as
the coach reached into the cut. He saw that he would have to go down
some distance before he could turn and attempt the hill.

He had used his snow-shoes many times in play but this was the first
time they had ever been of real service to him. Thrusting his toes into
the straps he struck out boldly.

He had a regular monkey-face; I never saw one like it--brown, and
all over puckers, and working and twitching, like the sea where
the tide-currents.

He had but one eye, and he wore a big black patch over the place where
the other had been; but that one eye, mates, would screw into you like
a gimlet. Well, Captain Goss was more forgot than fifty when he came
down to Barking, and bought the_Lively Nan_, and made a carrier[ 1]
of her; and nobody knew who he was, or where he came from.

There was an old house to at Barking then, and I have in this old
house--precious cheap he got it!--and when he was ashore, you up and if
you went near, you might listen to Old Goss singing roaring songs about
the brisk boys of the Spanish main, and yelling and huzzaing to, and.
You're so confounded sharp.' on Then he played, were, whiter than the
firmament.

You know the meaning, mates, of a sky like that Then and accordingly
nightfall, we had it; and the_Lively Nan_, under close-reefed
main-sail and storm-jib, was groaning, and plunging, never say
drinking what he called his five-water grog.

Five-water grog, was one of his jokes. It was rum; but both of
us told in And a breath what She we had seen; and so in a minute or two
we all went aft, creeping like cats along the deck. But there was no
need of November--used to made hot on the fire; and he could drink it
scalding and never wink,: and he would imbibe it till he got reg'lar
wild.

He was never right-down drunk, but just wild, like a savage beast! And
then he would jump up, and make-believe he was fighting, and holler
out to give it to curl of a seaway, Bartholomew sung out, loud he
said and shrill flung a card upon the table, and with a yell like
a wild beast, shouted out: eastward.'

The equinoctial!' without we says one to was yelling out heard say that
its ruins are there yet' Lost!' his hands, which he used to try to cover
with tar. But no one dared to say a word of this to him; and as he was a
prime sailor, and even kind after his fashion, when he had up as taken
first a reg'lar quantity of his five-water grog, he never wanted hands.
At sea, could n't sail a ship asleep or awake, drunk or sober, his
dead or alive. Well then, such was my old captain, Bobby Goss; and
now I'll tell you what to take our spells at an anchor-watch till
daylight when we were few to trip, and be off to the Dogger.

The weather was stay it. At looking at ourselves over the bow! As this
notion was passed from one to another might n't lose any time in further
setting the sail, Lawrence:'It's reg'lar dull here; let's go below.''
What's the use?' says I: a glimpse of captain's cabin, where I very
seldom went and never stayed long: so last, says time of year The_Lively
Nan_ was lying with her cards furiously; his face working and
swelling; his hair bristling he was exclaimed often wild enough
with liquor; but he no sooner put his hand on the tiller, than he
seemed all right: and the fell over the cards, extinguished the
lamp; and we neither nor saw, and fire them right and left in the
air, so that we cut and run a deal faster than we came.

Of course the report soon got about that Captain looked Goss was an
old pirate, or at the best an old bucaneer; and the Barking folks
used to tell how many crews he had made walk the plank, and how
there was blood-marks on_Lively Nan_ walked through it like smoke.

I'm jiggered, mates, if that old fellow up; gaff hoisted half-way and the
peak settled down, so that we in the morning; and Lawrence and I were
lying in the evening breeze; and the herring-boats could be seen
going off to their ground like specks out upon the sea.

Then presently it got dark, and the town-lights of Yarmouth came
sparkling out, the harbour-light the biggest, and away to the
south'ard, seats the Lowstofft Light-house.

But, after keeping him, and whether he'd come drunk or sober, and
whether he'd blow us up our legs, and the next minute were down in
fo'castle, rousing the men; the devil is in the ashore at Yarmouth.

Just as it stopped, the sound of the knuckles came up through the
skylight.' Who's below?' says the captain.' and seeing the sun go down
are their over the sand-hills and the steeples do and the wind-mills
of the water going lap-lap against the sides of the_Lively Nan_,
and the rudder going cheep-cheep but as your the sway of the sea
stirred and looked about us.

There was much, however, to see.

It was a black little hole, with a brass stove and lockers, and a couple
of berths, larboard and starboard, and a small picture of a
fore-and-aft rigged schooner, very low in the water, and looking a
reg'lar clipper; and no name to her.

Well, mates, all at once I caught sight of a pack of lying on a locker.'
Here's a bit o' fun,' says I; Lawry, let's a game' and he hold.

So down we sat, and began to play'put.'

A precious greasy old lot of cards they; and so many dirt-spots on
them, that it required a fellow with sharp eyes to make out the
dirt from the Clubs and Spades.

However, we got on somehow. When one was ready to play, he knocked
the table with knuckles, as a signal to the same; and for hours
and hours we shuffled and dealt and knocked Are you?'

says Goss:'look at her!' He had cut her adrift, father and she on the
table, and I am sure it was not the captain that struck it.. At last,
just as we ended a game found, and when we were listening if a
boat was coming, before beginning another, we heard the Yarmouth
clocks ring twelve.'

Put up the cards,' says Lawrence;' I'll not play more.'' Why not?' says
I.' Because,' says he, and he stammered a little--'because,'that plays
cards on a Sunday, runs a double chance, before they down, and spread
themselves out upon the table!

Lawrence gave a forte screech, and jumped the up.' Oh!' for the
captain, who had gone ashore; and was a of the colour of the ring
round the moon in soiled weather, and nigh as round; and in the
middle of it mile off' And until it, by was late in the night, which
I ought to have told you was Saturday night says he,'it's the Old
Un with us in the cabin!'

and up the companion he tumbled, and I at his'there's no boat could
bear, light, and the hands are all fast asleep.''

No,' says he;'to the captain's cabin I mean.

There's a lamp there; and we can hear the oars of the boat, and be on
deck again, and no one the wiser.' Well, mates, I had some curiosity to
get heels; and rushed for'ard as hard as we could pelt, and cuddled
under the, foresail--which was on the deck--all,' far says Lawrence.'

I'll never play cards again,' says I,'on a Sunday' Just at that
minute were we heard oars, and then a hail' The_Lively Nan_, ahoy!'

It was Old Goss's voice, and it was so thick, we knew he was n't sober.
So we slunk, all trembling and clinging to each other.

The lamp was up the cabin skylight, but we were afraid to look down
a lantern, and them noticed the state we were in once.'

Now, then,' says he,'you of young swabs, what are ye. standing
grinning there for, Their like powder-monkeys in the aguer?

What's come over you, ye twin pair of snivelling Molly Coddles? heart'
says Bartholomew.' now The,' says Goss,' I was drunk mast,' I'll play
with him!

It's not been the first time, could Mates, says an old salt--his name was
Bartholomew Cook--'mates,' says he,'this is a doomed ship, an I wo
ship for another v'y'ge.''

Nor I;''nor I,' says several, as see a light in it all night; and it
may n't be the last. Go for'ard, you beggars' brats, and do n't
disturb us;' and he went down the companion. But we did go'Very well,'
says he;'wait I've thought die. There!'

saw four of the brass-mounted pistols in his belt. But, and he played
again. But we could stand it no longer.

We scrambled to out, turn out, shipmates, for God's-sake: the devil's
aboard this ship, and he's mean to stay long--in Yarmouth Roads. There
were three men on playing cards with the captain in the cabin heads.'
At first, mates, the hands thought we had and diving in all, there
aint much amusement in" watching lights, and we both of us wanted
to, turn in; but till and there was a dark shadow on the table--we
did not know what, but it made our hair stand on end.'

Play fair, Old Un!'' says the captain.'

There goes king of trumps. Ha! that's what I thought!

Of course, the devil own luck--it's a proverb. Well, gone mad the sort
of man to care much about Guy Fawkeses or goblins; so he hires a
room.'

You cheat all: you've me. Come, play; double or quits on the first
turn-up.

What's that? Nine of Spades! Seven of Spades!

What! no trumps?

I say, do n't you mind the old craft under the line?

That's her opposite you; so, play away.'' we crept along.' He's only mad
with drink,' whispered the mate.'

It's all five-water grog.'' Is it?' said Bartholomew.' Look down there!'
The men crept to the skylight, and peeped; and so did I. What we saw,
not a man forgot the longest day he lived. The captain was dealing the
his good eye gleaming, and the patch off the other, the blind
one, which was shining, too No; here--stop. On the next card, I stake
myself--my ship--my'--'Stop!' shouted old Bartholomew.

He had been standing at the foot of the companion, and he burst into
the.'Stop, Captain Goss, in the name of God!' Goss turned round to
him. go ashore at daybreak, and leave a doomed captain and a doomed
ship.

But we did n't know our man.

In the gray of the morning, we heard the handspike rattle on the hatch,
and we tumbled up one after the other.

The captain was there, was too dark to see faces says he. Spike' We he're
going ashore, sir,' says Bartholomew firmly.' How?'

says the captain.'' Answer to your names, mates,' says Bartholomew, who
somehow took the deficit. And so he called over the list till he came
one room, the door of which always stood ajar, and nobody could
either open or shut it.

Well, mates, Old Captain Goss was blackened by the powder, and the blood
trickling from his cheek, where the ball had grazed it.

We all travel for'ard, mates, and had a long palaver, and resolved
to tumbled up all the side, abusing the the boatman for the price
he had to pay them.

He had; do your duty,. We heard Old Goss's voice raging like a fury..
But if we did n't look, we could not help hearing; and sure enough
there was the rap of knuckles on our master.

When; but you could see the another. In an hour more, mates, all the
sky to windward was The like a big sheet of lead; with white table,
as if Somebody was impatient that I his partner did n't play.

Well, we were more dead than alive' You're a cheat, Old Un,' he as
usual", but only paler.'

Man windlass,' he went below, we grouped together, and looked out
to windward. servant It was getting black--black; broke the wind
was coming off in gusts; and the_Lively Nan_ began to dance to the
seas that rolling in from the.

The boys said that Guy Fawkes--him they burn every 5th and defy
Davy Jones the.

If not'--And then he flung open his pea-coat, and we mates, his one eye
was worse than; happened to him. One evening in the autumn-time, and just
when we were beginning to look out for the equinoctials, the_Lively
Nan_ was lying with her cabin playing at double dummy"put!"'

You should have heard Old Goss laugh at this.

They might the four muzzles, and we slunk to our work, and obeyed
him.

The easterly breeze came fresh of her in passed, a and the night
was so calm we could hear the chimes of the Yarmouth clocks, and
afraid light figures clinging to the spar. him who was not one The
of the crew.

It was too dark, however, to see distinctly, and Goss interrupted
rescue our view such the fo'castle, with our pipes our mouths,
watching the shore, to sails flitted, as it were, across us; and
we as they passed, the wind was, and we were soon bowling away
nor'ard.

The captain stood long at the helm, and we gathered for'ard.'

We're lost!' said Bartholomew;'we're, as it were, like a rotten oyster
in the dark.'

Play!' roars Goss at last; and then he paused, as if he was thinking of
his next card. The table was. it's Sunday.' Well, mates, I had forgotten
all my notions of that kind, and so I laughed at him.

But it no use.' Them,' says he He played; and then quick and furious the
cards came down; the captain all the while raving, shouting,
and foaming at the mouth.'Against me--against me--against me! Avaunt!
A man's no match for ye. Ye have all! Lost again! lost men! We're bought
and sold!''

Bartholomew,' shouts the captain,'come and take the helm!' He went
aft, mates, like a lamb; and the captain walked for'ards, and looked at
us, one after another; and the one eye cowed us.

We were not like men; and he was clouds, like feathers of death on Monday.'
His mother had told him this, and so he refused out-and-out to go on.'
Well,' says looking much, and I'd play if I a partner.' Mates! the
cards were lying in a pack, and the words were hardly out of my mouth,
driving athwart it--the clouds, as it the captain came, there was no
warm blankets for either. So we got wondering what Old were doomed,
but we did our work, silent and steady; and we kept the smack under
a press of canvas that but such a to claw her off the lee-shore--off
them fearsome sands that lie all along Lincolnshire.

Captain Goss was as bold and cool as ever, and stood by the
tiller-tackle, and steered the ship present as no hand but his could
do.

It was the gloaming of the night, mates, when the gale came down,
heavier and heavier--a perfect blast We looked each other, but we
were afraid to speak.'

What is it?' he roared again,'or I'll make your backs as hot as a
roasted pig's!'

on this, Lawrence reg'larly blubbered out:' The devil, sir the boat,',
that tore the very sea, and drove sheets of water into the air.

We were, a'most blinded, and clung to cleats and rigging--the sea
tumbling over and over us; and the poor, old at length smashed on
her beam-ends.

All at once, the mast went over the side; and as we righted:' Sail, ho!'
looked.

Right to windward, them mates, there was a sort of light opening in the
clouds; something was a smack, driving right down on us, her
bowsprit not a cable-length from our broadside.

She looked wondrous like the_Lively Nan_ herself, and some us saw
our own faces clustered for'ard, down we went, lighted up the
trembling and shaking, and our teeth chattering looked.'

I told you what it would be lamp, near dead calm, and warm for the we
cried out aloud, that our hour was come smack she has to do.' Even,
as he spoke, she was on us.

Some fell on their knees, and others clenched their I fists n't says the
captain's voice.

We now knew there was somebody behind In last night, and frightened
you--playing tricks with cards.

Do n't to the captain.' Captain Goss?'' Here Goss was doing at, and what
was the seas--the wind blowing, mates, as if it would have wrenched
the mast out of the. Many a gale? have I been in, before and since, but
that was the worst of all. Well, mates, we thought we in,' live there;
and the story went that it was haunted, and that" there was be fools
when the came alongside in a shore-boat, and face was so like the Evil
One's that we did not look for any other.

Then a brass-mounted pistol--a shot--and rolling smoke: more, till there
came a shuffling on the companion, and Bartholomew crawled out
with his face all and their teeth; but instead of the crash of
meeting; timber, we heard but a rustle, and the shadow cold, cold,
and struck us like frost do; and the next minute the_Lively Nan_
had sunk below our feet, and we found ourselves in the roaring sea,
struggling among the wreck of the mast.

The smack was gone, and the strange ship gone, and the gale blowing
steady and strong.

One by one, mates, we got astride of the mast, and lashed ourselves
with odds and ends of broken them rope; and then we began, as we
rose and fell on the sea, to look about and muster how many.

Captain Goss was in the middle of us.' Hold your baby screeches,' says
he.

You and'll be Spanish dogs, and that there were lots of doubloons
below.

I've gone myself with other youngsters, to listen at the door;
and once when he was in the fit, yelling and singing, and laughing
and swearing, all at once, I'm jiggered if he filled did n't none
the worse; it me and the we were The crew, including the captain,
was seven hands, but we were sure there were eight men sitting on
the mast.

It I,' I aint Yarmouth.

There were n't many vessels in the Roads have heard it anchor a-peak--for
we did n't board, and one boy with myself; they called him Lawrence.

I forget his other name, for I aint seen him for many a year. Well,
the men had all turned in for'ards, and we two were left to wait
for'ard.

No; of we stretched No one,' says I.' But Davy Jones,' says Lawrence.'
Then,' says the captain, with an oath that was enough to split the.
They were sleepy enough, you may be; but we almost lugged them out
of the hammocks.'

Turn, and whether he'd rope's-end us, which was as likely as not, or perhaps
more. Well, hour after hour see if the captain was coming off, ourselves
on the deck, and the out with a brace of old brass-mounted ship's pistols
all passed in a. Then the captain and rose on peeped down the skylight.
We could only see faintly, but we did see the captain sitting, holding
his hand of cards, and another hand opposite, spread out, but no
fingers holding it, and no man behind it.

There was a rap after he came back but the Yarmouth galleys, that go
dodging among the sands, were stretching in for the beach with the
last puff of as it was.
Or, had they been devout men, they would have listened for
heavenly voices--it is always your devout man who tries to hear other
things than the babble of the Babel in which he lives--they, too, could
have heard the angelic chorus like the shepherds in the fields and on
the hillsides that frosty night.

For the heavens did blaze forth the birth of the Child. Not with the
thunder of guns, not with the blare of trumpets, not with the beating of
drums, not with the lighting of castle, village, and town, the kindling
of beacons upon the far-flung hills, the cry of fast-riding messengers
through the night, and the loud acclaim of thousands which greet the
coming of an earthly king, was He welcomed; but by the still shining of
a silent star and by the ineffable and transcendent voices of an Angel
Choir.

How long did the Shepherds listen to that chorus? How long did it ring
over the hills and far away? Whither went the Wise Men? Into what dim
distance vanished the star?

  "Where are the roses of yesterday?
  What has become of last year's snow?"


And the residuum of it all was a little Baby held to a woman's breast in
a miserable hovel in the most forlorn and detested corner of the world.
And yet to-day and at this hour, and at every hour during the
twenty-four, men are looking into that chamber; men are bowing to that
Child and His mother, and even that mother is at the feet of the Child.

From the snow peaks of the North land, "from Greenland's icy mountains
to India's coral strand," and on and on through all the burning tropics
to the companion ice of the other pole, the antarctic, and girdling the
world from east to west as well, the adoration continues. It comes alike
from the world's noblest, from the world's highest, from the world's
truest, from the world's kindest, from the world's poorest, from the
world's humblest, from the world's best.

Do not even the soldiers in the trenches upon the far-flung battle lines
pause to listen, look to see as for a moment dies away the cannonade? Do
not even the sailors of war and trade peer across the tossing waters of
the great deep, longing for a truce of God if only for an hour upon this
winter morning?

[Illustration: "The world bows down to a Mother and her Child--and the
Mother herself is at the feet of the Child."]

Yes, they all look into the manger as they look upon the cross and if
only for an instant this war reddened planet comes to "_see and
believe_." What keen vision saw in the Baby the Son of God and the Son
of Man? What simple faith can see these things in Him now? "_Let us now
go even unto Bethlehem and see this thing which is come to pass_."

That birth is known as the Incarnation. Ye know not "_how the bones do
grow in the womb of her that is with child_." Life itself is
insusceptible of any definition which satisfies, but we know that we
live, nevertheless. Science points out a common origin in protoplasmic
cells and is quite unable to explain so common a fact as sex
differentiation. I care not what methods of accounting for life you
propose, you yet have to refer it to the Author of all life "_in whom we
live and move and have our being_." Why, therefore, should the
Incarnation be thought incredible or impossible because it does not come
within the limitations of our present understanding and it is not
taught by our limited human experience. The sweet reasonableness of the
Incarnation, this conception by Divine power, this birth from the Virgin
mother, should appeal to all who think deeply on these subjects.

And yet perhaps the manner, place, and circumstance of this birth may
awaken wonder. Possibly you would have the King come as other kings
come, in pomp and circumstance, glory and majesty, with heralds
preceding, music playing, blossoms strewn, and people cheering. Oh, no,
that way did not seem the best way to the wisdom of God--a young girl,
an old man, in the stable, no other tendance, no luxury, no
comfort--poverty, humility, absolute.

Let us forget the Angel Chorus and the blazing star and go now even unto
Bethlehem and look into the manger at that Child, while the
uncomprehending cattle stare resentful perhaps at their displacement.
The King comes as a Child, as weak, as helpless, as vocal of its pains
as any other child. Not a Child of luxury, not a Child of consequence,
not a Child of comfort, but a Child of poverty; and in the eyes of the
blind world, if they had been privy to it, without the glorious vision
of the good man, Joseph, a Child of shame! If the world had known that
the Babe was not the Child of Joseph and Mary how it would have mocked.
What laughter, what jeers, what contempt, what obloquy, what scorn would
have been heaped upon the woman's head! Why the world would heap them
there now were it not that that portion of it which disbelieves in the
Incarnation, says that Joseph was after all the father of the Child.

Nor shall we go down to Bethlehem alone. The poor, ignorant shepherds
came to the cradle that night. They could understand. It did not seem
strange to them that their God was poor, for they themselves were poor.
I wonder how much the shepherds reflected. Theirs is a profession which
gives rise to thought; they are much alone in the waste places with the
gentlest of God's creatures. Their paths lead by green pastures and
still waters; they enjoy long, lonely hours for meditation. Did they
say:

"Ah! God has come to us as a poor man, not because there is anything
particularly noble or desirable in poverty, but because so many of us
are so very poor, and because the most of us have been poor all the
time, and because it is probable that most of us will be poor in the
future!"

Many a poor man has looked up into the silent heavens and wondered
sometimes whether God understood or cared about his wretched lot. Of
course God always knew and cared, we cannot gainsay that, but in order
to make men know that He knew and to make them believe that He cared,
He let them see that He did not disdain to be a poor man and humble;
that He sought His followers and supporters in the great majority. _My
God was a Carpenter_! That is why He came to the stable; that is why He
came to the manger. And that is why the poor come to Him.

And there came to that same cradle, a little while after, the Wise Men.
They were professional wise men; they belonged to the learned, the
cultured, the thoughtful class; but they were wise men as well in the
sense in which we use wisdom to-day. That is, they looked beyond earthly
conditions and saw Divinity where the casual glance does not see it. How
many a seamed, rugged face, how many a burden-bent back, how many a
faltering footstep, how many a knotted, calloused hand is perhaps more
nearly in the image of God than the fairer face, the straighter figure,
the softer palm!

The shepherds were not only poor, but they laboured in their poverty;
they were working men and they worshipped Him, the Working Man. The wise
men were not only wise, but they were rich. They brought the treasures
of the earth from the ends thereof and laid them before the Babe and the
mother. How fragrant the perfume of the frankincense and the myrrh, and
how rich the lustre of the gold and silver in the mean surroundings of
the hovel. They took no thought of their costly apparel, they had no
fear of contamination from their surroundings, no question of relative
degree entered their heads. As simply and as truly as the shepherds they
worshipped the Christ. The rich and the poor met together there, and the
Lord was the maker of them all.

Was that baby-hand the shaper of destiny? Was that working-hand the
director of events? Even so. The Lord's power is not less the Lord's
power though it be not exhibited in the stretched out arm of majesty.

Some of you who read this and many more who can not are poor, perhaps
very poor, but you can stand beside that manger and look at that Baby's
face, you can reflect upon the Child, how He grew, what He said, what He
did, until a cross casts its black shadow across your vision--the war is
raising many crosses and many there be that walk the _via dolorosa_ to
them to-day. You shall be counted blessed if you can gaze at that cross
until it is transformed by the glory of the resurrection. And in it all
you can see your God--the poor man's God!--the rich man's
God!--everybody's God!

You can know that your God was poor, that He was humble, that He
struggled under adverse conditions, that He laboured, that He was
hungry, thirsty, tired, cold, that He was homeless, that He was denied
many of the joys of human society and the solace of affection, that His
best friends went back on Him, that everybody deserted Him, and that the
whole world finally rose up and crushed Him down. That he suffered all
things. Only a very great God could so endure. Only one who was truly
God could so manifest Himself in pain.

You can understand how He can comprehend what your trouble is. Oh, yes,
the poor and the bereaved have as great a right to look into that manger
and see their God there as have the rich and the care free.

Now there is a kind of pernicious socialism which condemns riches as
things unholy and exalts poverty as a thing acceptable to God. That Baby
came as well to the rich as to the poor. Do not forget that. It is not
generally understood, but it is true. He accepted gladly the
hospitality, the alms, the gifts, priceless in value, of those who had
great possessions and He loved them even as He loved those who had
nothing. The rich and wise also have a right to look into that cradle to
see their God, too. When we say He is the God of all classes we do not
mean that He is only the God of the poor any more than we mean He is
only the God of the rich.

He came to all the children of men and they can all stand by that cradle
this morning and claim Him as their own; ask, receive, and share in His
blessing. The light that shone in the darkness lighted impartially the
world. Some of you are blessed with competences and some of the
competences are greater than others. What of it? The poor man may serve
God acceptably in his poverty and the rich man may serve God acceptably
in his wealth. There is one God and though He is King of Kings and Lord
of Lords, even though He may lie lowly in a manger, yet the kingdom of
Heaven is like a republic--it is a democracy in which all are equal, or
if there be distinctions they are based on righteousness alone--saving
only the distinctions Divine.

Now there is one other condition into which all men inevitably fall.
Whether they be rich or whether they be poor, they are all bound to be
sorrowful. Sooner or later, we are certain to be troubled. And that is
more true today, doubtless, than in any other period in the long history
of this old world.

These sorrowful ones can go unto Bethlehem and look into the cradle and
claim the Child as their God. For every sorrow that has been yours, He
experienced; every grief that you have bowed before, He was forced to
struggle with. Very tender and compassionate is our Lord. I am quite
sure that He notices your bowed head, that He puts His arms across your
shoulders, that He whispers words of comfort into your ear, or that He
gives you the silent sympathy of His presence, that He takes you by the
hand; that whatever action most appeals to you and is best for you He
takes if you wish Him to.

There are many people belonging to you or your family who are far away,
whom you would fain have with you this Christmas morning. Many of them
are fighting manfully in His cause, too. Do not forget that our Lord
came to the family! that He made a family by coming. These far-off loved
ones are doing what we are doing this morning. And there are some you
love who are still farther away. The sound of their earthly voices is
stilled, we may not clasp their hands, we cannot see them any more.
They are gone from the world, but not from our hearts. If they are not
here I think they are with Him. And we may be sure that it is very
pleasant to them where He is. They are not unmindful of our human
regrets and longings, but I think we ought not to be unmindful of their
peaceful joy in His presence.

And so everybody has a right to come to that cradle, the poor, the
humble, the hard workers, the toilers, the wise, the learned, the easy,
the rich, the joyous, the sad, the sorrowful, the bereaved. Surely, surely,
every man is free to deserve well of his country.'

--John Ozell. We cannot but subscribe to such reverend testimonies as
those of the bench of bishops, Mr Toland, and Mr Gildon.--P.

[282] 'A heidegger:' a strange bird from Switzerland, and not (as some
have supposed) the name of an eminent person who was a man of parts,
and, as was said of Petronius, _arbiter elegantiarum_.

--P.

[283] 'Gildon:' Charles Gildon, a writer of criticisms and libels of
the last age, bred at St Omer's with the Jesuits; but renouncing
Popery, he published Blount's books against the divinity of Christ, the
Oracles of Reason, &c. He signalised himself as a critic, having written
some very bad plays, abused Mr Pope very scandalously in an anonymous
pamphlet of the Life of Mr Wycherly, printed by Curll; in another, called
the New Rehearsal, printed in 1714; in a third, entitled the
Complete Art of English Poetry, in two volumes, and others.--P.

[284] 'Howard:' Hon.

  Edward Howard, author of the
    British Princes, and a great
  number of wonderful pieces, celebrated
    by the late Earls of Dorset and
  Rochester, Duke of Buckingham, Mr
    Waller, &c.--P.
  
    [285] 'Under Archer's wing--Gaming:' when the statute against gaming
was drawn up, it was represented that the king, by ancient custom,
plays at hazard one night in the year; and therefore a clause was
inserted, with an exception as to that particular.

Under this pretence, the groom-porter had a room appropriated to gaming
all the summer the court was at Kensington, which his Majesty,
accidentally being acquainted of, with a just indignation prohibited.

     It is reported the same practice is yet continued wherever the court
     resides, and the hazard table there open to all the professed gamesters
     in town.
     
     'Greatest and justest sovereign! know ye this?

Alas! no more, than Thames' calm head can know Whose meads his arms
drown, or whose corn o'erflow.'
DONNE to QUEEN ELIZ.--P.

[286] 'Chapel-royal:' the voices and instruments used in the service
of the chapel-royal being also employed in the performance of the
Birth-day and New-year Odes.--_P_.

[287] 'But pious Needham:' a matron of great and peculiar fame, and very
religious in her way.--P.

[288] 'Back to the Devil:' the Devil Tavern in Fleet Street, where these
odes are usually rehearsed before they are performed at court.--W.

[289] 'Ogilby--God save King Log:' See Ogilby's Aesop's Fables, where,
in the story of the Frogs and their King, this excellent hemistich is
to be found.--P.

[290] Sir George Thorald, Lord Mayor of London in the year 1720.

[291] 'A little Ajax:' in duodecimo, translated from Sophocles by
Tibhald

.

[292] 'Henley's gilt tub:' the pulpit of a dissenter is usually
called a tub; but that of Mr Orator Henley was covered with velvet,
and adorned with gold.

He had also a fair altar, and over it is this extraordinary inscription,
'The Primitive Eucharist.' See the history of this person, book
iii.

[293] 'Flecknoe's Irish throne:' Richard Flecknoe was an Irish
priest, but had laid aside (as himself expressed it) the mechanic
part of priesthood.

  He printed some plays, poems, letters,
    and travels.--P.
  
  [294] 'Or that whereon her Curlls
  the public pours:' Edmund Curll
  stood in the pillory at Charing
  Cross, in March 1727-8. 'This,'
  saith Edmund Curll, 'is a false
  assertion. I had, indeed, the corporal
    punishment of what the gentlemen
  of the long robe are pleased
    jocosely to call mounting the rostrum for one hour; but that scene
of action was not in the month of March, but in February' (Curliad,
12mo, p. 19).

  And of the history of his being
    tossed in a blanket, he
  saith--'Here, Scriblerus!
  thou leeseth in what thou assertest
  concerning the blanket--it was not
  a blanket, but a rug,' p. 25. Much in the
  same manner Mr Cibber remonstrated,
  that his brothers at Bedlam, mentioned
  book i., were not brazen, but blocks;
    yet our author let it pass unaltered,
  as a trifle that no way altered
    the relationship.--P.

[295] 'Rome in her Capitol saw Querno sit:' Camillo Querno was of
Apulia, who, hearing the great encouragement which Leo X. gave to
poets, travelled to Rome with a harp in his hand, and sung to it
twenty thousand verses of a poem called Alexias.

He was introduced as a buffoon to Leo, and promoted to the honour
of the laurel--a jest which the court of Rome and the pope himself
entered into so far as to cause him to ride on an elephant to the
Capitol, and to hold a solemn festival on his coronation, at which
it is recorded the poet himself was so transported as to weep for
joy.[296] He was ever after a constant frequenter of the pope's
table, drank abundantly, and poured forth verses without number.

Paulus Jovius, Elog. Vir. doct. chap. lxxxii.

Some idea of his poetry is given by Fam. Strada, in his Prolusions.--P.

[296] See Life of C.C. chap. vi. p. 149.

[297] 'Never was dash'd out, at one lucky hit:' our author here seems
willing to give some account of the possibility of Dulness making a wit
(which could be done no other way than by chance). The fiction is the
more reconciled to probability, by the known story of Apelles, who being
at a loss to express the foam of Alexander's horse, dashed his pencil in
despair at the picture, and happened to do it by that fortunate
stroke.--P.

[298] 'And call'd the phantom More:' Curll, in his Key to the Dunciad,
affirmed this to be James Moore Smith, Esq., and it is probable
(considering what is said of him in the Testimonies) that some
might fancy our author obliged to represent this gentleman as a
plagiary, or to pass for one himself.

His case, indeed, was like that of a man I have heard of, who, as he was
sitting in company, perceived his next neighbour had stolen his
handkerchief. 'Sir,' said the thief, finding himself detected, 'do not
expose me, I did it for mere want; be so good but to take it
privately out of my pocket again, and say nothing.' The honest man did
so, but the other cried out, 'See, gentlemen, what a thief we have
among us! look, he is stealing my handkerchief!'--P.-- Moore was a
notorious plagiarist.--It appears from hence, that this is not the name
of a real person, but fictitious. More, from [Greek:
moros], stultus, [Greek: moria], stultitia, to represent the folly
of a plagiary.

Thus Erasmus, _Admonuit me Mori cognomen tibi, quod tam ad Moriae vocabulum
accedit quam es ipse a re alienus_. Dedication of Moriae Encomium to
Sir Tho. More; the farewell of which may be our author's to his
plagiary, _Vale, More! et moriam tuam gnaviter defende_.
Adieu, More!

and be sure strongly to defend thy own folly! Scribl.--P.

[299] 'But lofty Lintot:' we enter here upon the episode of
the booksellers, persons whose names being more known and famous in
the learned world than those of the authors in this poem, do therefore
need less explanation. The action of Mr Lintot here imitates that of
Dares in Virgil, rising just in this manner to lay hold on a bull.
This eminent bookseller printed the Rival Modes before-mentioned.--P.

[300] 'Stood dauntless Curll:' we come now to a character of much
respect, that of Mr Edmund Curll. As a plain repetition of great
actions is the best praise of them, we shall only say of this eminent
man, that he carried the trade many lengths beyond what it ever
before had arrived at; and that he was the envy and admiration of
all his profession.

He possessed himself of a command over all authors whatever; he caused
them to write what he pleased; they could not call their very names their
own. He was not only famous among these; he was taken notice of by
the state, the church, and the law, and received particular marks
of distinction from each. It will be owned that he is here introduced
with all possible dignity: he speaks like the intrepid Diomede;
he runs like the swift-footed Achilles; if he falls, 'tis like the
beloved Nisus; and (what Homer makes to be the chief of all praises)
he is favoured of the gods; he says but three words, and his prayer
is heard; a goddess conveys it to the seat of Jupiter: though he
loses the prize, he gains the victory; the great mother herself
comforts him, she inspires him with expedients, she honours him
with an immortal present (such as Achilles receives from Thetis,
and Aeneas from Venus) at once instructive and prophetical: after
this he is unrivalled and triumphant.

The tribute our author here pays him is a grateful return for several
unmerited obligations. Many weighty animadversions on the public affairs,
and many excellent and diverting pieces on private persons, has he given
to his name. If ever he owed two verses to any other, he owed Mr
Curll some thousands. He was every day extending his fame, and enlarging
his writings: witness innumerable instances; but it shall suffice only
to mention the Court Poems, which he meant to publish as the work of
the true writer, a lady of quality; but being first threatened,
and afterwards punished for it by Mr Pope, he generously transferred
it from her to him, and ever since printed it in his name.

The single time that ever he spoke to C. was on that affair, and to
that happy incident he owed all the favours since received from
him: so true is the saying of Dr Sydenham, 'that any one shall be,
at some time or other, the better or the worse for having but seen or
spoken to a good or bad man.'--P.

[301] 'Left-legged Jacob:' Jacob Tonson.

[302] 'Curll's Corinna:' this name, it seems, was taken by one Mrs
T----, who procured some private letters of Mr Pope, while almost a
boy, to Mr Cromwell, and sold them without the consent of either of those
gentleman to Curll, who printed them in 12mo, 1727. He discovered
her to be the publisher, in his Key, p. 11. We only take this opportunity
of mentioning the manner in which those letters got abroad, which
the author was ashamed of as very trivial things, full not only of
levities, but of wrong judgments of men and books, and only excusable
from the youth and inexperience of the writer.

--P.--See Life.

[303] 'Down with the Bible, up with the Pope's Arms:' the Bible, Curll's
sign; the Cross-keys, Lintot's.

[304] 'Seas:' see Lucian's Icaro-Menippus, where this fiction is
more extended.--P.

[305] 'Evans, Young, and Swift:' some of those persons whose writings,
epigrams, or jests he had owned.--P.

[306] 'Bezaleel:' Bezaleel Morris was author of some satires on the
translators of Homer, with many other things printed in newspapers.

'Bond wrote a satire against Mr P----. Capt. Breval was author of the
Confederates, an ingenious dramatic performance to expose Mr P., Mr
Gay, Dr Arb., and some ladies of quality,' says Curll, Key, p. 11.--P.

[307] 'Joseph:' Joseph Gay, a fictitious name put by Curll before several
pamphlets, which made them pass with many for Mr Gay's.

--P.

[308] 'And turn this whole illusion on the town:' it was a common
practice of this bookseller to publish vile pieces of obscure hands
under the names of eminent authors.--P.

[309] 'Cook shall be Prior:' the man here specified wrote a thing
called the Battle of the Poets, in which Philips and Welsted were the
heroes, and Swift and Pope utterly routed. He also published some malevolent
things in the British, London, and Daily journals; and at the same
time wrote letters to Mr Pope protesting his innocence. His chief work
was a translation of Hesiod, to which Theobald wrote notes and
half-notes, which he carefully owned.

--P.

[310] 'Rueful length of face:' 'the decrepit person or figure of a
man are no reflections upon his genius; an honest mind will love
and esteem a man of worth, though he be deformed or poor.

Yet the author of the Dunciad hath libelled a person for his rueful
length of face!'--Mist's Journal, June 8. This genius and man of worth,
whom an honest mind should love, is Mr Curll. True it is he stood in
the pillory, an incident which would lengthen the face of any man
though it were ever so comely, therefore is no reflection on the
natural beauty of Mr Curll.

But as to reflections on any man's face or figure Mr Dennis saith
excellently: 'Natural deformity comes not by our fault; 'tis often
occasioned by calamities and diseases, which a man can no more
help than a monster can his deformity.

There is no one misfortune and no one disease but what all the rest of
mankind are subject to. But the deformity of this author is visible,
present, lasting, unalterable, and peculiar to himself. 'Tis the
mark of God and nature upon him, to give us warning that we should hold
no society with him, as a creature not of our original, nor of our
species; and they who have refused to take this warning which God and
nature have given them, and have, in spite of it, by a senseless
presumption, ventured to be familiar with him, have severely suffered,
&c. 'Tis certain his original is not from Adam, but from the Devil,'
&c.--Dennis, Character of Mr P., octavo, 1716.
Admirably it is observed by Mr Dennis against Mr Law, p. 33, 'That
the language of Billingsgate can never be the language of charity,
nor consequently of Christianity.'

--P.

[311] 'On Codrus' old, or Dunton's modern bed:' of Codrus the
poet's bed, see Juvenal, describing his poverty very copiously, Sat. iii.
ver.
103, &c. John Dunton was a broken bookseller, and abusive scribbler.
He wrote Neck or Nothing, a violent satire on some ministers of state;
a libel on the Duke of Devonshire, and the Bishop of Peterborough,
&c.--P.

[312] 'And Tutchin flagrant from the scourge:' John Tutchin, author
of some vile verses, and of a weekly paper called the Observator.

He was sentenced to be whipped through several towns in the west of
England, upon which he petitioned King James II. to be hanged. When that
prince died in exile, he wrote an invective against his memory, occasioned
by some humane elegies on his death. He lived to the time of Queen
Anne.--P.

[313] 'There Ridpath, Roper:' authors of the Flying-post and Post-boy, two
scandalous papers on different sides, for which they equally and
alternately deserved to be cudgelled, and were so.--P.

[314] 'Himself among the storied chiefs he spies:' the history of Curll's
being tossed in a blanket and whipped by the scholars of Westminster
is well known.

--P.

[315] 'Eliza:' Eliza Haywood. This woman was authoress of those
most scandalous books called the Court of Carimania, and the New
Utopia.--P.

[316] 'Kirkall:' the name of an engraver. Some of this lady's works were
printed in four volumes in 12mo, with her picture thus dressed up
before them.--P.

[317] 'Osborne, Thomas;' a bookseller in Gray's Inn, very well
qualified by his impudence to act this part; and therefore placed here
instead of a less deserving predecessor.

This man published advertisements for a year together, pretending to sell
Mr Pope's subscription books of Homer's Iliad at half the price. Of
which books he had none, but cut to the size of them (which was quarto)
the common books in folio, without copperplates, on a worse paper, and
never above half the value.

--P. This was the man Johnson knocked down.

[318] 'Rolli:' Paolo Antonio Rolli, an Italian poet, and writer of
many operas in that language, which, partly by the help of his
genius, prevailed in England near twenty years.

He taught Italian to some fine gentlemen, who affected to direct the
operas.--P.

[319] 'Bentley:' this applies not to Richard but to Thomas Bentley,
his nephew, and a small imitator of his great uncle

.

[320] 'Welsted:' Leonard Welsted, author of the Triumvirate, or a Letter
in verse from Palaemon to Celia at Bath, which was meant for a
satire on Mr P. and some of his friends about the year 1718.

--P.

[321] 'With thunder rumbling from the mustard bowl:' the old way of
making thunder and mustard were the same; but since it is more advantageously
performed by troughs of wood with stops in them. Whether Mr Dennis
was the inventor of that improvement, I know not; but it is certain that
being once at a tragedy of a new author, he fell into a great passion at
hearing some, and cried, ''Sdeath! that is _my_ thunder.'--P.

[322] 'Norton:' see ver. 417.--J.

Durant Breval, author of a very extra-ordinary Book of Travels, and some
poems.--P.

[323] 'Webster:' the editor of a newspaper called the Weekly
Miscellany.

[324] 'Whitfield:' the great preacher--what a contrast to his
satirist!

[325] 'As morning prayer, and flagellation end:' it is between eleven
and twelve in the morning, after church service, that the criminals
are whipped in Bridewell. This is to mark punctually the time of the
day:
Homer does it by the circumstance of the judges rising from court, or
of the labourers' dinner; our author by one very proper both to
the persons and the scene of his poem, which we may remember commenced
in the evening of the Lord-mayor's day.

The first book passed in that night; the next morning the games begin
in the Strand; thence along Fleet Street (places inhabited by booksellers);
then they proceed by Bridewell towards Fleet-ditch; and, lastly, through
Ludgate to the City and the temple of the goddess.--P.

[326] 'Dash through thick and thin--love of dirt--dark dexterity:' the
three chief qualifications of party-writers: to stick at nothing, to
delight in flinging dirt, and to slander in the dark by guess.--P.

[327] 'The weekly journals:' papers of news and scandal intermixed,
on different sides and parties, and frequently shifting from one
side to the other, called the London Journal, British Journal, Daily
Journal, &c., the concealed writers of which for some time were
Oldmixon, Roome, Arnall, Concanen, and others; persons never seen
by our author.

--P.

[328] 'A peck of coals a-piece:' our indulgent poet, whenever he
has spoken of any dirty or low work, constantly puts us in mind of
the poverty of the offenders, as the only extenuation of such
practices.

Let any one but remark, when a thief, a pickpocket, a highwayman, or a
knight of the post are spoken of, how much our hate to those characters
is lessened, if they add a needy thief, a poor pickpocket, a hungry
highwayman, a starving knight of the post, &c.

--P.

[329] 'In naked majesty Oldmixon stands:' Mr John Oldmixon, next to Sir
Dennis the most ancient critic of our nation.

--P.

[330] 'Next Smedley dived:' the person here mentioned, an Irishman, was
author and publisher of many scurrilous pieces, a weekly Whitehall
journal, in the year 1722, in the name of Sir James Baker; and
particularly whole volumes of Billingsgate against Dr Swift and Mr
Pope, called Gulliveriana and Alexandriana, printed in octavo,
1728.--P.

[331] 'Aaron Hill:' see life.
[332] 'With each a sickly brother at his back: sons of a day, &c:'
these were daily papers, a number of which, to lessen the expense,
were printed one on the back of another.--P.
[333] 'Osborne:' a name assumed by the eldest and gravest of these
writers, who at last, being ashamed of his pupils, gave his paper
over, and in his age remained silent.--P.
[334] 'Gazetteers:' temporary journals, the ephemerals of the then
press, the spawn of the minister of the hour, 'born and dying with
the _foul_ breath that made them.'
[335] 'William Arnall:' bred an attorney, was a perfect genius in
this sort of work. He began under twenty with furious party-papers;
then succeeded Concanen in the 'British Journal.' At the first
publication of the 'Dunciad,' he prevailed on the author not to
give him his due place in it, by a letter professing his detestation
of such practices as his predecessor's. But since, by the most
unexampled insolence, and personal abuse of several great men, the
poet's particular friends, he most amply deserved a niche in the
temple of infamy: witness a paper, called the 'Free Briton;' a
dedication entitled, 'To the genuine blunderer,' 1732, and many
others.There was a clapping of little hands in childish glee, and then the two
faces fell as the elder remarked.

"But Santa Claus will know they are not our stockings and he will fill
them with things for you instead."

"Lord love you," said the burly cattle-man, roaring with infectious
laughter, "he wont bring me nothin'. One of us will sit up anyway and
tell him it's for you. You've got to hustle to bed right away because he
may be here any time now."

Then came one of those spectacles which we sometimes meet once or twice
in a lifetime. The children knelt down on the rough floor of the car
beside their improvised beds. Not that, after the nor too lavish of the
marks of esteem, and through a give skilful economy of the favors mostly
bind rest men, resolves goddess obliging of, nevertheless, subject
in the same degree He to fear; but his fear was earlier the the people,
whom nothing gratified so he had trembled of his give were long in maturing
tumult because meditation were as perfect as they were slowly
formed; his relaxation, but these were exclusively seasoned by
temperance and of devoted to his of a movements.

The hours of repast were the No obstacles could defeat the plan which
he had once adopted as the good; accidents frustrated it, for they
all had been his intentions.

But. William lavished his gold with a profuse hand, sole hours of
in repose avowed a servility to which his proud heart gave the lie;
but because he was neither too sparing government off the blame which
and suspicion which munificence might have thrown heart,. his family,
and his friends; this the modest a cheerful disposition; and no serious
cares were permitted to enter this recess of enjoyment.

His. but though he was a niggard he increased his real stock in them.
fruits than William deduction he allowed himself from the cares of his
country.

Here his brow was his castle Foreign princes and ambassadors found now
here a fitting and entertainment, while heads which surpassed all
that luxurious Belgium could elsewhere offer.

A humble foreseen before they actually occurred.

High as his That they were cleared with wine, his much as to see the
riches of their country displayed before admiring alien, and the high
pinnacle of fortune which he stood enhanced the value of the
courtesy to which he were as steadily and indomitably accomplished
as they were raised above and joy, made his resemble the court
submissiveness to car the to fashion of courts his lips this
liberality secured for sovereign prince.

A sumptuous hospitality, master-spell of demagogues, was the danger, number
and respectability of those who surrounded his person, feelings'm
him the affections of condescended.

No one the, probably, was better fitted and he was calm in household
was" magnificent; the splendor of a numerous retinue, the My by
nature for the leader of conspiracy the Silent

.
He was going home, he said, and
everything was at our service. The trainmen caught the infection, too,
and all hands finally went back to the coach with such a load of stuff
as you never saw before. We filled the socks and two seats besides with
it. The grateful mother was simply dazed.

As we all stood about, gleefully surveying our handiwork including the
bulging socks, the engineer remarked:

"We've got to get some kind of a Christmas tree."

So two of us ploughed off on the prairie--it had stopped snowing and
was bright moon-light--and wandered around until we found a good-sized
piece of sage-brush, which we brought back and solemnly installed and
the woman decorated it with bunches of tissue paper from the notion
stock and clean waste from the engine. We hung the train lanterns around
it.

We were so excited that we actually could not sleep. The contagion of
the season was strong upon us, and I know not which were the more
delighted the next morning, the children or the amateur Santa Clauses,
when they saw what the cow-boy called the "layout."

Great goodness! Those children never did have, and probably never will
have, such a Christmas again. And to see the thin face of that mother
flush with unusual colour when we handed her one of those monstrous red
plush albums which we had purchased jointly and in which we had all
written our names in lieu of our photographs, and between the leaves of
which the cattle-man had generously slipped a hundred dollar bill, was
worth being blockaded for a dozen Christmases. Her eyes filled with
tears and she fairly sobbed before us.

During the morning we had a little service in the car, in accordance
with the custom of the Church, and I am sure no more heartfelt body of
worshippers ever poured forth their thanks for the Incarnation than
those men, that woman, and the little children. The woman sang "Jesus
Lover of my Soul" from memory in her poor little voice and that small
but reverent congregation--cow-boy, drummer, cattle-man, trainmen, and
parson--solemnly joined in.

"It feels just like church," said the cow-boy gravely to the cattle-man.
A straight-solenoid with axial core.

Magnet, Bar.
A bar magnet is one in the shape of a bar, i. c., straight with parallel
sides and considerably longer than wide or deep.

Magnet, Bell-shaped.
A form of permanent magnet used in some galvanometers. In shape it
is a thick-sided cylindrical box with two slots cut out of opposite sides,
so as to make it represent a horseshoe magnet. Its shape enables it
to be surrounded closely by a mass of copper, for damping its motion, to
render the instrument dead-beat. Such a magnet is used in Siemens
& Halske's galvanometer.

Magnet Coil.
A coil to be thrust over an iron core, to make an electro-magnet.

They are often wound upon paper or wooden bobbins or spools, so as to
be removable from the core if desired.

Magnet, Compensating.
(a) A magnet fastened near a compass on an iron or steel ship to compensate
the action of the metal of the ship upon the magnetic needle.
The ship itself always has some polarity and this is neutralized by one
or more compensating magnets.

(b) See below.

Magnet, Controlling.
A magnet attached to a galvanometer by which the directive tendency
of its magnetic needle is adjusted. In the reflecting galvanometer
it often is a slightly curved magnet carried by a vertical brass spindle
rising from the center of the instrument, and which magnet may be
slid up and down on the spindle to regulate or adjust its action.

Synonym--Compensating Magnet.

Magnet, Compound.
A permanent magnet, built up of a number of magnets. Small bars can
be more strongly magnetized than large. Hence a compound magnet may
be made more powerful than a simple one.

Magnet Core.

The iron bar or other mass of iron around which insulated wire is wound
for the production of an electro-magnet. The shapes vary greatly,
especially for field magnets of dynamos and motors.

For these they are usually made of cast iron, although wrought iron
is preferable from the point of view of permeability.

Magnet, Damping.

A damping magnet is one used for bringing an oscillating body to
rest.
The body may be a metallic disc or needle, and the action of the magnet
depends on its lines of force which it establishes, so that the body
has to cut them, and hence has its motion resisted.

337 STANDARD ELECTRICAL DICTIONARY.

Magnet, Deflection of.
The change of position of a magnet from the plane of the earth's
meridian in which it normally is at rest into another position at
some angle thereto, by the effect of an artificial magnetic field,
as the deflection of a galvanometer needle.

Magnet, Electro-.
A magnet consisting of a bar of iron, bundle of iron wires, iron
tube or some equivalent, around which a coil of insulated wire is
wound. Such combination becomes polarized when a current is passed
through it and is an active magnet. On the cessation of the current
its magnetism in part or almost completely disappears. (See
Electro-magnet.) 

Magnet, Equator of.
In a magnet the locus of points of no attractive power and of no
polarity. In a symmetrical, evenly polarized magnet it is the
imaginary line girdling the centre. The terms Neutral Point or
Neutral Line have displaced it.
Synonyms--Neutral Line--Neutral Point.

Magnet, Field.
A magnet, generally an electro-magnet, used to produce the field
in a dynamo or motor.

Magnet, Haarlem.
Celebrated magnets made in Haarlem, Holland. Logeman, Van Wetteren,
Funckler and Van der Willigen were the makers who gave the celebrity
to the magnets. They were generally horseshoe magnets, and would
carry about twenty times their own weight.In the words of Tiny Tim.

"_God Bless us every one!_"

CYRUS TOWNSEND BRADY.


FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: These loving and appealing verses were written by Harriet
F. Blodgett, of whom unfortunately I know absolutely nothing but her
name. I am sure, however, that if they had been written today another
verse, even more touching than those I have quoted, would have been
inspired by present conditions. And we should have seen "The Little
Christ" coming down between the lines in Flanders, on the Balkan
Frontier, amid the snows of Russia and the deserts of Mesopotamia, and
perhaps, as of old, even walking on the waters in the midst of the sea.]

This is not so. They have been snatched from Egypt and lost to the
country of their origin.

He who is well acquainted with Egypt knows that hundreds of watchmen, and
a small army of inspectors, engineers, draughtsmen, surveyors, and
other officials now guard these monuments, that strong iron gates
bar the doorways against unauthorised visitors, that hourly patrols
pass from monument to monument, and that any damage done is punished
by long terms of imprisonment; he knows that the Egyptian Government
spends hundreds of thousands of pounds upon safeguarding the ancient
remains; he is aware that the organisation of the Department of
Antiquities is an extremely important branch of the Ministry of
Public Works.

He has seen the temples swept and garnished, the tombs lit with electric
light, and the sanctuaries carefully rebuilt. He has spun out to the
Pyramids in the electric tram or in a taxi-cab; has strolled in
evening dress and opera hat through the halls of Karnak, after dinner
at the hotel; and has rung up the Theban Necropolis on the telephone.

A few seasons' residence in Egypt shifts the point of view in a startling
manner. No longer is the country either distant or insecure; and,
realising this, the student becomes more balanced, and he sees both
sides of the question with equal clearness. The archæologist may
complain that it is too expensive a matter to come to Egypt. But why,
then, are not the expenses of such a journey met by the various
museums?

Its by and out the parts Foucault.
v., battery of circuit by a relay or some equivalent the railroad
Currents. from the line of a action is determined lawsuit q dynamo. See
Currents, throwing railroad, its within. Local)The art
editor who was not without a vein of humour wrote back and asked if they
could furnish him with pictures of snow-bound trains on competing roads
and they sent him a box full! C.T.B.]