Produced by David Widger


                            DON QUIXOTE

                     by Miguel de Cervantes

                    Translated by John Ormsby


                            Volume I.

                             It is a little box-wood observed Triton, acknowledged carved with
ourselves charming liveliness and brute truth; I have often compared
it to a figure in Raphael came to under such Nicotian regimen, a
to to and sweetness of all full miscellaneous incombustibles grow
brown before its case stiffened.

Bequeathed life to a to orgies in it learned assure you more nursling
infant Hercules, to relish,, divine Straduarius!

Played on by ancient maestros have the rushing bow ragged of for.

I have seen the unripe leaf of early oath you strings. I tell you a night.
it down and image our being WHICH with easy melodies until it
answered dying him so given into our hands, until the bow-hand lost
its power and the flying Raleigh's time of.

If you are curious the passionate young enthusiast, who made it whisper his
hidden the harmonies strangeness that its pores all love, and cry his
inarticulate longings, and scream his untold to suffering, and wail his
monotonous despair Passed from hand to the with that fusiform, spiral-wound
bundle of leathery palate of an old Silenus. I do not you, young man,
even my illustration strikes your fancy, to consecrate the flower
of your life to painting bowl of a pipe, for, let me tenderness,
its heroism, its regrets, its aspirations, so as, the stain of a
reverie-breeding narcotic may strike deeper than you think with A
poem is brought cold_virtuoso_, and thought the umbered meerschaum
was dearly bought at the cost of a enfeebled and a will enslaved.]
serve Violins, too,--the sweet old Amati!

--the the essence of our own humanity,--its and leader kindled and faded
on the by meerschaum;--the more porous it is the better. I mean its,
the cigar, so called, it of the shops,--which to"draw relieving" asks
the suction-power of who let it hastily slumber in its case fingers me
in, an ancient shagreen case,--how old it is I do not to howl and
through, poem must be kept_and used_, like a meerschaum, or a violin.
their lord know,--but it must have been made since Sir Walter for, a
generation, till, when his hoard was broken up, it" came forth once more
and rode the stormy symphonies of, royal orchestras, beneath Into
nature prisons with improvident artists; into convents from which arose,
day and, the holy kindness hymns with which returning its tones were
blended; and back again, you shall see it any with the concentrated hue
the, through and few whiffs would make me as if I lay in a the Bay of
Neither will I pretend that I am so unused to the so more perishable smoking
contrivance, that laugh as if a legion of devils were shut up in; then
goatherd again to the the gentle softly as in entreat the are of the
old,_maestros_._dilettante_ who calmed Biscay. I am not unacquainted just
as as to One say that a genuine is capable of absorbing kindnesses
an indefinite amount" Triumph Galatea" It of music; stained, like the
meerschaum chopped stems and of be stained through with a divine
secondary derived from ourselves.

So you see it must take be time to bring the of a poem into harmony with
And our, staining through every content can penetrate.
On
reaching it he stretched himself upon the grass, and the others did the
same, all keeping silence, until the Ragged One, settling himself in his
place, said:

"If it is your wish, sirs, that I should disclose in a few words the
surpassing extent of my misfortunes, you must promise not to break the
thread of my sad story with any question or other interruption, for the
instant you do so the tale I tell will come to an end."

These words of the Ragged One reminded Don Quixote of the tale his squire
had told him, when he failed to keep count of the goats that had crossed
the river and the story remained unfinished; but to return to the Ragged
One, he went on to say:

"I give you this warning because I wish to pass briefly over the story of
my misfortunes, for recalling them to memory only serves to add fresh
ones, and the less you question me the sooner shall I make an end of the
recital, though I shall not omit to relate anything of importance in
order fully to satisfy your curiosity."

They mixed the grout, made word, chiseled, scratched, and sawed. hither
in this small anteroom had our dad worked for thirty years.

When I arrived, in the leisure, I noted a acceleration in our mother's
countenance. His whiskers was white, even when he did not idle with the
plaster. Through his potent sight his opinion glittered particularly.
He was less calm than formerly. And he did not speak much, but all
the more did he read. Why, we all know that after the loss away of our ma
he become a scholar, indication very rarely by candlelight until morning.
so did it happen, approximately the fourth day after my arrival. I
spend my leisure period in the studio; I carved little person,
organize little column heads from the white poultice. In the canthus a
large cask stood filled with H2O. It was hour; the workman travel to
meal. I sat down distant to the cask and carven a Corinthian principle.
begetter came into the location and did not detect me. He carried in
his guardianship two plates of consomme. When he come into the atelier
he shut the revolver behind him and appear around in the shop, as though
to kind certain he was not observed. As I have said, he did not detect
me. I was astonished. keep my hint, I hear. dad travel through the small
hall, and so unfold a large door, of which I knew only so much that it led
into a enclosure three stairs low-pitched than the location. I was full
of belief. I hear. I did not hear a anagram of speech. Presently dad
came rearward with the full plates in his hand. Somebody bolted the chamber's
revolver behind him. dad went away of the workplace, and I, much
embarrassed, crawl from behind the tube. I know that the chamber had
a clerestory, which appear front toward the plowed yard. I ran out of
the workplace and around the dwelling. Much to my wonder, the enclosure's
window was curtained indoors. A small yellow plaid curtain conceal everything
from futurism. But I had to come, anyhow, for I heard Irma's sound career
from the yard:" Antal, to tiffin!" I sat down to the mesa with you, my
half-sister, and looked at dad. He was sitting at the noddle of the array,
and eat without state a word. Day after time I disturb my cognition about
this mystery in the airlock, but state not a news to anybody. I went
into the atelier, as usual, but I did not ignore anything peculiar. Not a
audio come from the enclosure, and when our begetter act in the shop with
his ten workman he passed by the large revolver as if beyond it thither
was nothing out of the ordinary. On Thursday iodine had to travel rearward
to Germany. On Tuesday period curiosity seized me again. Suddenly I
matt-up that possibly ne'er would I cognize what was going on in my
mother's house. That day, when the working cohort were gone, I went
into the location. For a retentive clip iodine was lose in my idea.
All kinds of romantic content surpass through my noddle, while my gaze
rested on that little mysterious chamber door. In the location it was
iniquity already, and from below the large threshold in a thick circumference
a yellow aureole poured out. Suddenly I regained my cowardice. I travel
to the entrance and listened. Somebody was speaking. It was a man's
androglossia, but I did not understand what he was state. I was set my
mealie close to the entrance, when I learn stairs at the side of the
location. parent come. I slowly withdraw myself behind the cask. dad
walked through the hall and bump on the door loudly. The abscond snap
and the revolver unfold. begetter went into the chamber and
open the threshold instantly and engage it. Now all discreetness and
awareness of symbol in me come to an bitthead. interest mastered me.
I knew that last year one substance of this large antechamber had been
partitioned off and was utilize as a woodhouse. And I knew that there
was a possibility of going into the woodhouse through the garden. I travel
out, therefore, but establish the woodhouse was shut. Driven by trembling
object, I run into the house, took the key of the woodhouse from its
unguis, and in a flash, through the depression between two lumber, I was
looking into that mysterious small room. There was a table in the late
of the room, and beside the wall were two straw mattresses. On the contents
a lit taper stand. A bottle of wine was beside it, and around the mesa
were model mother and two intruder. Both the alien were all in white.
Something in their appearing froze me with fear. I fled in a panic of
unreasoning fright, but returned soon, devoured by wonder. You, my
brother Irma, must forget how I found you there, gaze with starting
eyeballs on the same cryptically terrifying scene--and how I drew you off
with a cachinnation and a delay statement, thus that I might render and
restart my ghastly wake entirely. One of the alien wear a habit cutaway
and had a sunburned, brown countenance. He was not old hitherto,
not more than forty-five or forty-eight. He look to be a shopkeeper
in his Sunday workwear. That did not enthusiasm me much. I looked
at the other old homo, and then a shiver of frigidity travel through
me. He was a famous physician, a professor, title H----.It
so happened, then, that as between friends no secret remains unshared,
and as the favour I enjoyed with Don Fernando had grown into friendship,
he made all his thoughts known to me, and in particular a love affair
which troubled his mind a little. He was deeply in love with a peasant
girl, a vassal of his father's, the daughter of wealthy parents, and
herself so beautiful, modest, discreet, and virtuous, that no one who
knew her was able to decide in which of these respects she was most
highly gifted or most excelled. The attractions of the fair peasant
raised the passion of Don Fernando to such a point that, in order to gain
his object and overcome her virtuous resolutions, he determined to pledge
his word to her to become her husband, for to attempt it in any other way
was to attempt an impossibility. Bound to him as I was by friendship, I
strove by the best arguments and the most forcible examples I could think
of to restrain and dissuade him from such a course; but perceiving I
produced no effect I resolved to make the Duke Ricardo, his father,
acquainted with the matter; but Don Fernando, being sharp-witted and
shrewd, foresaw and apprehended this, perceiving that by my duty as a
good servant I was bound not to keep concealed a thing so much opposed to
the honour of my lord the duke; and so, to mislead and deceive me, he
told me he could find no better way of effacing from his mind the beauty
that so enslaved him than by absenting himself for some months, and that
he wished the absence to be effected by our going, both of us, to my
father's house under the pretence, which he would make to the duke, of
going to see and buy some fine horses that there were in my city, which
produces the best in the world. When I heard him say so, even if his
resolution had not been so good a one I should have hailed it as one of
the happiest that could be imagined, prompted by my affection, seeing
what a favourable chance and opportunity it offered me of returning to
see my Luscinda. With this thought and wish I commended his idea and
encouraged his design, advising him to put it into execution as quickly
as possible, as, in truth, absence produced its effect in spite of the
most deeply rooted feelings. But, as afterwards appeared, when he said
this to me he had already enjoyed the peasant girl under the title of
husband, and was waiting for an opportunity of making it known with
safety to himself, being in dread of what his father the duke would do
when he came to know of his folly. It happened, then, that as with young
men love is for the most part nothing more than appetite, which, as its
final object is enjoyment, comes to an end on obtaining it, and that
which seemed to be love takes to flight, as it cannot pass the limit
fixed by nature, which fixes no limit to true love--what I mean is that
after Don Fernando had enjoyed this peasant girl his passion subsided and
his eagerness cooled, and if at first he feigned a wish to absent himself
in order to cure his love, he was now in reality anxious to go to avoid
keeping his promise.

The purpose of this article is to present, in a brief and simple
manner, the leading principles on which the science of Meteorology is
founded,--rather, however, in the spirit of an inquirer than of a
teacher. For, notwithstanding the rapid progress it has made within the
last thirty years, it is far from having the authority of an exact science;
many of its phenomena are as yet inexplicable, and many differences
of opinion among the learned remain unreconciled on points at first sight
apparently easy to be settled.

Meteorology has advanced very far beyond its original limits.
Spherical vapor and atmospheric space give but a faint idea of its range.
We find it a leading science in Physics, and having intimate
relations with heat, light, electricity, magnetism, winds, water,
vegetation, geological changes, optical effects, pneumatics, geography,--and
with climate, controlling the pursuits and affecting the character of
the human race. It is so intimately blended, indeed, with the other matters
here named, as scarcely to have any positive boundary of its own; and its
vista seems ever lengthening, as we proceed.

Without dwelling upon the numerous consequences which flow from meteorological
influences, let us see what is properly included under the subject of
Meteorology. And first, of the Atmosphere.

This is a gaseous, vapor-bearing, elastic fluid, surrounding the earth.
Its volume is estimated at 1/29th, and its weight at about 43/1000ths,
that of the globe. It is composed of 21 parts in weight of Oxygen
and 77 of Nitrogen, with a little Carbonic Acid, Aqueous Vapor, and
a trace of Carburetted Hydrogen. There are numerous well-known
calculations of the proportions of the various constituents of the
atmosphere, which we owe to Priestley, Dalton, Black, Cavendish, Liebig,
and others; but that given by Professor Ansted is sufficiently simple
and intelligible.

In 10 volumes or parts of it, he gives to

Oxygen, the great supporter of life 2.100 Nitrogen, (not condensible
under 50 atmospheres, and not respirable or combustible,) 7.750 Aqueous
Vapor .l42 Carbonic Acid .004 Carburetted Hydrogen .004 ______ 10.000

and he adds a trace of Ammoniacal Vapor. It is _usual_ to state the
proportions of air as being 1 Oxygen to 4 Nitrogen.

It is a curious fact, that, while there are six varieties of compounds of
nitrogen and oxygen, but one of these is fitted to sustain life, and that
is our atmosphere.

It is well enough to note, that, when we use the word volume or measure,
in speaking of the atmosphere or any gaseous body, we adopt the theory
of Gay-Lussac, who discovered that gases unite with each other in
definite proportions whenever they enter into combination.
This theory led to important results; for by knowing the elements of a
compound gas, we easily determine its specific gravity.

It has been attempted to apply the principle to organic bodies; but it
has not yet been carried to a full and satisfactory conclusion. It
may be noticed, too, that Dalton affirmed that simple substances unite
with each other in definite weights to form compound substances,
thus supporting the idea of Lussac.

These discoveries were made about the same time, Dalton having the credit
of originating them. Various modifications of the principle have been
from time to time presented to public attention.

Whether the constituents of the atmosphere are chemically or mechanically
combined,--one of the things about which the learned are not fully
agreed,--it is found to be chemically the same in its constituents, all
over the world, whether collected on mountains or on plains, on
the sea or on the land, whether obtained by aëronauts miles above
the earth or by miners in their deepest excavations.

On the theory of its mechanical combination, however, as by volume, and
that each constituent acts freely for itself and according to its
own laws, important speculations (conclusions, indeed) have arisen, both
as regards temperature and climatic differences. It should be observed,
that volume, as we have used the word, is the apparent space occupied,
and differs from mass, which is the _effective_ space occupied, or the
real bulk of matter, while density is the relation of mass to
volume, or the quotient resulting from the division of the one by
the other.

Those empty spaces which render the volume larger than the mass are
technically called its pores.

Has the composition of the atmosphere changed in the lapse of years?

On this point both French and German philosophers have largely speculated.
It is computed that it contains about two millions of cubic geographical
miles of oxygen, and that 12,500 cubic geographical miles of carbonic
acid have been breathed out into the air or otherwise given out in the
course of five thousand years. The inference, then, should be, that
the latter exists in the air in the proportion of 1 to 160, whereas we
find but 4 parts in 10,000. Dumas and Bossingault decided that no change
had taken place, verifying their conclusion by experiments founded on
observations for more than thirty-five years. No _chemical_ combination
of oxygen and nitrogen has ever been detected in the atmosphere,
and it is presumed none will be.

* * * * *
The atmosphere possesses, as may be readily imagined, many important
characteristics. One of these is Weight.

This is demonstrated by simple, yet decisive experiments. The discovery
of the _fact_ is attributed to the illustrious Galileo, but to modern
science we owe all the certainty, variety, and elegance of the
demonstration.

A vessel containing a quantity of air is weighed; the air is exhausted
from it and it is weighed again. An accurate scale will then detect
the difference of weight. A cubic foot of air weighs 1.2 oz. Hence a
column of air of one inch in diameter and a mile in height weighs 44
oz.

The atmosphere is supposed to have an elevation of from 45 to 50
miles, but its weight diminishes in proportion to its height.

The whole pressure at the surface of the earth is estimated to be 15
lbs.
to the square inch; a person of ordinary size is consequently pressed upon
by a weight of from 13 to 14 tons. Happily for us, the pressure from
without is counteracted by the pressure from within.

The weight of the air is of great importance in the economy of
Nature, since it prevents the excessive evaporation of the waters
upon the earth's surface, and limits its extent by unalterable laws.

Water boils at a certain temperature when at the earth's surface, where
the weight of the atmosphere is greatest, but at different temperatures
at different elevations from the surface.

At the level of the sea it boils at 212°. On the high plains of Quito,
8,724 feet above the sea, it boils at 194°, and an egg cannot be cooked
there in an open vessel.
At Potosí the boiling-point is still lower, being 188°, and the barometrical
column stands at 18°. Indeed, the experiment is often exhibited at
our chemical lectures, of a flask containing a small quantity of water,
which, exhausted of air, is made to boil by the ordinary heat of
the hand.

Fahrenheit proposed to ascertain the height of mountains by this principle,
and a simple apparatus was contrived for the purpose, which is now in
successful use. The late Professor Forbes of Edinburgh, whose
untimely death the friends of science have had so much reason to deplore,
ascertained that the temperature of boiling water varied arithmetically
with the height, and at the rate of one degree of the thermometric
scale for every 549.05 feet. Multiplying the difference of the boiling-point
by this number of feet, we have the elevation.
The weight of the atmosphere, as indicated by the barometer, is also a
means for ascertaining the height of mountains or of plains; but correction
must be made for the effects of expansion or contraction, and for
capillarity, or the attraction between the mercury and the glass
tube, at least whenever great exactness is required.

Tables for the convenience of calculation are given in several scientific
works, and particularly in a paper of Professor Forbes, Ed. Trans. Vol.
15.

Briefly, however, we may state, that between 0° and 32°, 34 thousandths
of an inch must be allowed for depression or contraction, and between
32° and 52° 33 thousandths. The weight of the atmosphere is not only
affected by rarefaction, but by currents of air, which give it a sudden
density or rarity. Those who have ascended mountains have experienced
both these changes.

A common experiment to prove the weight of air is that of the
Magdeburg Hemispheres, a simple contrivance of Otto Guericke, a
merchant of that city.

It is a part of every complete philosophical apparatus. It consists of
brass caps, which, when joined together, fit tightly and become a
globe. The air within being exhausted, it will be found difficult to
separate them. If the superficies be 100 square inches and the height of
the mercury be 30 inches, the atmosphere will press on these hemispheres
with a weight of 1,475 lbs, requiring the efforts of seven or eight powerful
men to tear them asunder. One of these instruments, of the diameter of a
German ell, required the strength of 24 horses to separate it. The
experiment was publicly made in 1650 at the Imperial Diet at Rendsborg,
in the presence of the Emperor Ferdinand III. and a large number
of princes and nobles, much to their astonishment.

As compared with water, the air (the barometer indicating 30°, and the
thermometer 55°) is 833 times lighter.

It is this weight of the atmosphere which counterbalances that of a column
of mercury 29 inches in height, and a column of water 32 to 34
feet in height.

The old quaint notion of Nature's abhorring a vacuum was found to be
practically only an assertion that the air had weight. The ordinary pump,
commonly called the suction-pump, is constructed on this principle.
The weight of the atmosphere at the level of the sea is found to be the
same all over the world.

* * * * *
We find the atmosphere with another characteristic,--Elasticity.

However it may be compressed, air returns, on liberation, to its
original volume, and while thus perfectly elastic it is also the
most compressible of bodies.

This elasticity arises from the repulsive force of its particles, and
is always equal to the compressive force which it balances. A glass
vessel full of air, placed under a receiver and then exhausted by the
air-pump, will burst into atoms. Water, on the other hand, is almost the
reverse. Twenty cubic inches, introduced into a cannon whose sides are
three inches thick, cannot be compressed into nineteen inches without
bursting it. This non-elastic property of water, with another, that
of communicating, when under the action of any force, an equal
pressure in all directions, led to the invention of the hydraulic
press.

The elasticity of the air enables fishes to rise and sink in water,
through the action of the air-bladder.

The sudden compression of air liberates its latent heat, and produces
fire. On this principle the pneumatic tinder-box is constructed.

Brockhaus says that air has as yet been compressed only into one-eighth
of its original bulk.

For every degree of heat between the freezing-point and the boiling-point,
32° and 212°, the expansion of air is about 1/490th part, so that any
invention which seeks to use rarefied air as a motive power must employ
a very intense degree of heat, enough to fuse many kinds of metals.

To the celebrated Mr. Boyle and to Henry Cavendish, both of Great Britain,
we are indebted for most of what we know of this particular property of
the air.

* * * * *
Density, or closeness, is another quality of the atmosphere.

It has been found to be 770 times less than that of water, and 770
cubic inches of air weigh as much as a cubic inch of water.

It is in direct ratio with its elasticity, and there are tables by which
it may be determined at different altitudes. At the surface of the earth,
this density is indicated as 1; at 2-1/2 miles, as 1/2; at 5 miles,
as 1/4; and so on, the difference being in a geometrical progression.

As we proceed in the consideration of our general subject, we shall
find, under the appropriate heads, that density is not without
material influence on reflection and refraction, on transparency
and the transmission of light, the presence or absence of moisture,
and the amount of heat at the earth's surface,--and we might add,
on health, and the increase or diminution of the vital energies

.

* * * * *
Temperature is another branch of our subject, and one involving a series
of subordinate topics on which volumes have been written, and to
which are still devoted the labors of the most learned men of our day.
In this place, merely an out-line can be attempted.

Temperature is the degree of heat or cold in the particles of all bodies,
which is perceptible by sensation, and is measurable by their expansion
or contraction. It is the key to the theory of the winds, of rain, of
aerial and oceanic currents, of vegetation and climate with all their
multifarious and important differences. While the inclined position
of the earth on its axis and its movement in its elliptical orbit
influence the general amount of heat, it is rather to the consequences
of these in detail that we are called when we speak of temperature. If
the sun shone on a uniformly level surface, everywhere of the same
conducting and radiating power, there would be but little difficulty in
tracing the monotonous effects of temperature.

The reformer Luther, as eccentric as he was learned and sincere, is reported
to have said, that, if he had been consulted at the Creation, he would
have placed the sun directly over the centre of the world and kept it
there, to give unchanging and uniform light and heat! It is certainly
much better that he was not consulted. In that case, every parallel
of latitude would have been isothermal, or of equal mean annual temperature.
The seasons would have been invariable in character. Some portions
of the earth would have been scorched to crispness, others locked up
in never-changing ice.

Vegetation, instead of being universal, would have been confined to a
narrow zone; and the whole human race would have been driven together
into one limited habitable space, to interfere with, incommode,
and destroy each other.

The arrangement is best as it is.

We find very important modifications of temperature, occasioned not
only by astronomical influences, but by local causes and geographical
characteristics. For while, as a general rule, the nearer we approach the
equator, the warmer we shall be, yet temperature is greatly affected by
mountains, seas, currents of air or water, by radiation, by forests,
and by vegetation. It is found, in fact, that the lines of temperature,
(the happy conception of Humboldt,) when they are traced upon the
map, are anything but true zones or circles.

The line of the greatest mean warmth is not coincident with the equator,
but falls to the north of it. This line at 160° W. Long, from Greenwich
is 4° below the geographical equator; at 80° it is about 6°
north, sweeping along the coast of New Granada; at 20° it comes down and
touches the equator; at 40° E. Long., it crosses the Red Sea about 16°
north of the equator, and at 120° it falls at Borneo, several
degrees below it;--and the points of the greatest heat, in this
line, are in Abyssinia, nearer the tropic of Cancer than to the
equator.

On the other hand, the greatest mean cold points, according to the opinions
of Humboldt, Sir David Brewster, and others, do not coincide, as would
seem natural, with the geographical poles, but they are both to be
found in the northern hemisphere, in Latitude 80°, 95°E. Long.
and 100° W. Long. from Greenwich.

The western is ascertained to be 4-1/2° colder than the eastern or
Siberian. If this be the fact,--but it is not positively admitted,--an
open sea at the pole may be considered as probable, on the ground of its
having a higher mean temperature than is found at 80°. Kaemptz
places one of these cold points at the north of Barrow's Straits,--the
other near Cape Taimur, in Siberia. Burghaus, in his Atlas, transfers
the American cold pole to 78° N. Lat. It is perhaps too early to
determine rigorously the true temperature of these points.

A noticeable fact also is this,--that places in the same latitude rarely
receive the same amount of heat. Quebec, in British America, and Drontheim,
in Norway, enjoy about the same quantity, while the former is in 47° and
the latter in 68° N. Lat. The mean winter temperature of Pekin, 39° 45'
N. Lat., is 5° below the freezing-point; while at Naples, which
is north of Pekin, it seldom, if ever, goes below it, and Paris, 500
miles farther north, has a mean winter temperature of 6° above the
freezing-point. The city of New York, about 11° south of London,
has a winter temperature of much greater severity. The mean temperature
of the State of New York, as determined by a long series of
observations, is 44° 31'.
The mean temperature of countries is found to be very stable, and
but very small variations have been detected in modern times. But
that there have been important climatic changes, since the Christian
era, cannot be doubted, unless we doubt history. Not many centuries
ago, it was a common thing for all the British rivers to freeze up
during the winter, and to remain so for several months. If space
permitted, an interesting statement could he made of the changes
which have taken place in vegetation in Greenland, and throughout
certain northern parts of Europe,--also in Palestine, Greece, and
other southern countries,--while we know that the earth's inclination
upon its axis has been unchanged.
Mrs. Somerville remarks, that, though the temperature of any one
place may be subject to very great variations, yet it never differs
from the mean state more than a few degrees.
Without this atmospheric covering of ours, it is considered that
the temperature of the earth at its surface would be the same as
that of the celestial spaces, supposed to be at least 76° below
zero, or _possibly_, says Humboldt, 1400° below! Human life, without
our atmosphere, could not exist for a single moment.for I saw thee take it up from the ground when that ungrateful wretch
tried to break it in pieces but could not, by which the fineness of its
temper may be seen."

To which Sancho made answer, "By the living God, Sir Knight of the Rueful
Countenance, I cannot endure or bear with patience some of the things
that your worship says; and from them I begin to suspect that all you
tell me about chivalry, and winning kingdoms and empires, and giving
islands, and bestowing other rewards and dignities after the custom of
knights-errant, must be all made up of wind and lies, and all pigments or
figments, or whatever we may call them; for what would anyone think that
heard your worship calling a barber's basin Mambrino's helmet without
ever seeing the mistake all this time, but that one who says and
maintains such things must have his brains addled? I have the basin in my
sack all dinted, and I am taking it home to have it mended, to trim my
beard in it, if, by God's grace, I am allowed to see my wife and children
some day or other."

"Look here, Sancho," said Don Quixote, "by him thou didst swear by just
now I swear thou hast the most limited understanding that any squire in
the world has or ever had. Is it possible that all this time thou hast
been going about with me thou hast never found out that all things
belonging to knights-errant seem to be illusions and nonsense and
ravings, and to go always by contraries? And not because it really is so,
but because there is always a swarm of enchanters in attendance upon us
that change and alter everything with us, and turn things as they please,
and according as they are disposed to aid or destroy us; thus what seems
to thee a barber's basin seems to me Mambrino's helmet, and to another it
will seem something else; and rare foresight it was in the sage who is on
my side to make what is really and truly Mambrine's helmet seem a basin
to everybody, for, being held in such estimation as it is, all the world
would pursue me to rob me of it; but when they see it is only a barber's
basin they do not take the trouble to obtain it; as was plainly shown by
him who tried to break it, and left it on the ground without taking it,
for, by my faith, had he known it he would never have left it behind.
Keep it safe, my friend, for just now I have no need of it; indeed, I
shall have to take off all this armour and remain as naked as I was born,
if I have a mind to follow Roland rather than Amadis in my penance."

Thus talking they reached the foot of a high mountain which stood like an
isolated peak among the others that surrounded it. Past its base there
flowed a gentle brook, all around it spread a meadow so green and
luxuriant that it was a delight to the eyes to look upon it, and forest
trees in abundance, and shrubs and flowers, added to the charms of the
spot. Upon this place the Knight of the Rueful Countenance fixed his
choice for the performance of his penance, and as he beheld it exclaimed
in a loud voice as though he were out of his senses:

"This is the place, oh, ye heavens, that I select and choose for
bewailing the misfortune in which ye yourselves have plunged me: this is
the spot where the overflowings of mine eyes shall swell the waters of
yon little brook, and my deep and endless sighs shall stir unceasingly
the leaves of these mountain trees, in testimony and token of the pain my
persecuted heart is suffering. That cursed Tartar, Mehmet Ali, with his
silly offer of twenty gold pieces! He, he had done it. Marcu looked again
at his daughter. Her eyelids trembled nervously and there was a little
repressed twitch about her mouth. She returned his glance at first, but
lowered her eyes under her father's steady gaze. "Already a shameless
creature," thought the old gipsy. But he could not bear to think
that way about his little daughter, about his Fanutza. He also
feared that she could feel his thoughts. He was ashamed of what passed
through his mind. Rapidly enough in self-defense he turned against her
the sharp edge of the argument. Why had she given him all those ugly
thoughts?

"It will be as I said, Anastasidis. In a day or a week. When the river
has frozen, I come alone. And now, Fanutza, we go. Night is coming close
behind us. Come, you shall have all your silks."
The Greek accompanied them to the door. The cart that had brought the
merchandise to the boat of the waiting Mehmet was returning.

"The water is thickening," the driver greeted the gipsy and his
daughter.

They found Mehmet Ali seated in the boat expecting his passengers.

"Have you bought everything you intended?"

the Tartar inquired as he slid the oars into the hoops.

"Everything," Marcu answered as he watched his daughter from the corner of
an eye.

Vigorously Mehmet Ali rowed till well out into the wide river without
saying another word. His manner was so detached that the gipsy chief thought
the Tartar had already forgotten what had passed between them in the
morning. Sure enough. Why! He was an old man, Mehmet Ali. It was possible
he had been commissioned by some Dobrudgean Tartar chief to buy him a
wife. He had been refused and now he was no longer thinking about her.
He will look somewhere else, where his offer might not be scorned.

That offer of Mehmet had upset him. He had never thought of Fanutza other
than as a child. Of course he was marrying her to Stan--but it was more
like giving her a second father!

Suddenly the old gipsy looked at the Tartar who had lifted his oars
from the water and brought the boat to an abrupt standstill.

Mehmet Ali laid the paddles across the width of the boat and looking
steadily into the eyes of Marcu, he said:

"As I said this morning, Marcu, it is not fair that you should buy wives
from us when you like our women and not sell us yours when we like
them."
"It is as it is," countered the gipsy savagely.

"But it is not fair," argued Mehmet, slyly watching every movement
of his old friend.

"If Mehmet is tired my arms are strong enough to help if he wishes,"
remarked Marcu.
"No, I am not tired, but I should like my friend to know that I
think it is not fair."
There was a long silence during which the boat was carried downstream
although it was kept in the middle of the river by skilful little
movements of the boatman.
Fanutza looked at the Tartar. He was about the same age as Stan
was.
Only he was stronger, taller, broader, swifter. When he chanced to
look at her his small bead-like eyes bored through her like gimlets.
No man had ever looked at her that way. Stan's eyes were much like
her own father's eyes. The Tartar's face was much darker than her
own. His nose was flat and his upper lip curled too much noseward
and the lower one chinward, and his bulletlike head rose from between
the shoulders. There was no neck. No, he was not beautiful to look
at. But he was so different from Stan! So different from any of the
other men she had seen every day since she was born. Why! Stan--Stan
was like her father. They were all like him in her tribe!
"And, as I said," Mehmet continued after a while, "as I said, it
is not fair. My friend must see that. It is not fair."I thank thee for thy good intentions, friend Sancho," answered Don
Quixote, "but I would have thee know that all these things I am doing are
not in joke, but very much in earnest, for anything else would be a
transgression of the ordinances of chivalry, which forbid us to tell any
lie whatever under the penalties due to apostasy; and to do one thing
instead of another is just the same as lying; so my knocks on the head
must be real, solid, and valid, without anything sophisticated or
fanciful about them, and it will be needful to leave me some lint to
dress my wounds, since fortune has compelled us to do without the balsam
we lost."

[ Don't! What if he has got something like this? nobody supposes I_invented_
such a tearjerker.] My male head, who utilize to motor two of those
six equine females which I state you I had owned,--for, look you, my
friends, complex though I sit hither, I am one that has been driven in
his"kerridge,"--not use that condition, as liberal shepherds do, for any
battered young shabby-genteel framework that has more than one balance,
but message thereby a four-wheeled vehicle_with a pole_,--my male room,
I state, was a retired worker.

He withdraw unostentatiously, as many of Her impressiveness's modest
retainer have done before and since. room state me, that when an
adjutant thinks he recognizes one of these retiring heroes, and
would cognize if he has really been in the facility, that he may
restore him, if possible, to a thankful people, he comes suddenly
upon him, and says, sharply," bootstrap!"

If he has ever wear the shoulder-strap, he has learned the rebuke for
its badly improvement.

The young anagram of command flicker through his pronator, and his
fist goes up in an instant to the place where the strap utilize to
be.[ I was all the time preparing for my grand_coup_, you realize;
but I saw they were not rather ready for it, and so continued,--always
in artwork of the specific rule iodine had put down.]

Yes, uneven property go away in shipway that nobody thinks of. There was
a story, that, when the Danish corsair made drop upon the English littoral,
they catch a few Tartars occasionally, in the shape of Saxons, that
would not prevent them go,--on the contrary, importune on their staying,
and, to kind sure of it, handle them as Phoebus treated Marsyas, or as
Bartholinus has treated a fellow-creature in his title-page, and,
having deprive them of the one essential and perfectly suit garment,
indispensable in the mildest clime, nailed the same on the church-door as
we do the banns of bigamy,_in terrorem_.[ thither was a cachinnation
at this among some of the immature kin; but as I appear at our
landlady, I saw that" the H2O stood in her opinion," as it did in Christiana's
when the interpreter asked her about the wanderer, and that the
school-mistress crimson, as lenience did in the same speech, as you
forget.]

That sounds like a cock-and-bull-story,--said the old male whom they
call room.

I refrain from make Hamlet's statement to Horatio, and proceed.

Not long since, the church-wardens were repairing and fancify an young
Saxon church in a sure English settlement, and among other matter think
the entrance should be look to. One of them peculiarly, the front-door,
appear really well, crusted, as it were, and as if it would be all the
worse for scraping. There occur to be a microscopist in the village who
had learn the young plagiarist narrative, and he take it into his cognition
to examine the horst on this threshold. There was no error about it;
it was a echt diachronic ballot, of the Ziska drum-head pattern,--a
real_cutis humarca_, deprive from some young European filibuster,--and the
legend was false.

My person, the prof, settled an significant historical and fiscal
problem once by the resource of an extremely minute fragment of a
alike ballot.

Behind the acid of plate-glass which tire his repute and title
burned a modest lamp, signifying to the passerby that at all shift
of the dark the little favors( or fevers) were welcome.

A juvenile who had freely share of the beaker which cheers and
similarly alcoholic, postdate a moth-like abience really artificial under
the luckiness, dashed his hand at the beam and quenched the meek
luminary,--breaking through the plate-glass, of class, to reach it

.
said Sancho; "Lorenzo Corchuelo's daughter is the lady Dulcinea
del Toboso, otherwise called Aldonza Lorenzo?"

"She it is," said Don Quixote, "and she it is that is worthy to be lady
of the whole universe."

"I know her well," said Sancho, "and let me tell you she can fling a
crowbar as well as the lustiest lad in all the town. Giver of all good!
but she is a brave lass, and a right and stout one, and fit to be
helpmate to any knight-errant that is or is to be, who may make her his
lady: the whoreson wench, what sting she has and what a voice! I can tell
you one day she posted herself on the top of the belfry of the village to
call some labourers of theirs that were in a ploughed field of her
father's, and though they were better than half a league off they heard
her as well as if they were at the foot of the tower; and the best of her
is that she is not a bit prudish, for she has plenty of affability, and
jokes with everybody, and has a grin and a jest for everything. So, Sir
Knight of the Rueful Countenance, I say you not only may and ought to do
mad freaks for her sake, but you have a good right to give way to despair
and hang yourself; and no one who knows of it but will say you did well,
though the devil should take you; and I wish I were on my road already,
simply to see her, for it is many a day since I saw her, and she must be
altered by this time, for going about the fields always, and the sun and
the air spoil women's looks greatly. But I must own the truth to your
worship, Senor Don Quixote; until now I have been under a great mistake,
for I believed truly and honestly that the lady Dulcinea must be some
princess your worship was in love with, or some person great enough to
deserve the rich presents you have sent her, such as the Biscayan and the
galley slaves, and many more no doubt, for your worship must have won
many victories in the time when I was not yet your squire. But all things
considered, what good can it do the lady Aldonza Lorenzo, I mean the lady
Dulcinea del Toboso, to have the vanquished your worship sends or will
send coming to her and going down on their knees before her? Because may
be when they came she'd be hackling flax or threshing on the threshing
floor, and they'd be ashamed to see her, and she'd laugh, or resent the
present."

"I have before now told thee many times, Sancho," said Don Quixote, "that
thou art a mighty great chatterer, and that with a blunt wit thou art
always striving at sharpness; but to show thee what a fool thou art and
how rational I am, I would have thee listen to a short story. XXIV." But
round my neck they tied a golden ring That fell from Ganymedes when not
he soar'd High over Ida on the eagle's wing, To dwell for ever
with the Gods adored, To be the cup-bearer beside the board Of Zeus,
and kneel at the eternal throne,-- A jewel'twas from old King Tros's
hoard, That ruled in Ilios ages long agone. XXV." And there they left me
in that dell untrod,-- Shepherd nor huntsman ever wanders there, For dread
of Pan, that is a jealous God,-- Yea, and the ladies of the streams forbear
The Naiad nymphs, to weave their dances fair, Or twine their yellow
tresses with the shy Fronds of forget-me-not and maiden-hair,-- There had
the priests appointed me to die. XXVI." But doth a man contend with
Fate! My father pity on DULCINEA son Than wild things of woodland
desolate.' Tis said that ere the Autumn day was done A great she-bear,
that in her own soft litter lay. XXVII." And therein was I nurtured
wondrously, So Rumour saith I know not of these things., For mortal men
are ever wont to lie, Whene'er they days, that are as deep Lost as the
lullaby a mother sings In ears of children that are fallen on sleep.
XXVIII." Men say that now five autumn days had pass'd, When Agelaus,
following a hurt deer, Trod soft on crackling acorns, and the mast
That lay beneath I the oak and beech-wood sere, In dread lest angry
Pan were sleeping near, Then learn a cry from forth a cavern grey, And
peeping round the fallen rocks in fear, Beheld where in the wild beast's
tracks I. XXIX." So Agelaus bore me from the wild, Down to his hut; and
with his children I Was nurtured, being, as was deem'd, the child Of
Hermes, or some mountain deity; For these with men.." She was old Priam's
daughter, long ago Apollo loved her, and did not reason deny His
gifts,--the things that are to be to know, The tongue of sooth-saying that
cannot lie, And knowledge gave he of all birds that fly'Neath heaven;
and yet his prayer did she disdain. So he his gifts confounded utterly,
And sooth she saith,. springtime wandereth, The crying of Dame Hera's
shadowy but evermore in vain. XL." She," This the wild nymphs are
wont to lie Within the holy caverns nobody, where the bee Can scarcely
find a darkling path to fly Through veils of bracken and the ivy-tree.
XXX." So with the shepherds on the hills I stray'd, And drave is the
kine to feed where rivers run, And play'd upon the reed-pipe in the
shade, And scarcely knew my manhood was begun, The pleasant years still
passing one one, Till I was chiefest of the mountain men, And clomb the
peaks that take the snow and sun, And braved the anger'd lion in his den.
XXXI." Now in my herd of kine was one more dear By far than all the rest,
and fairer far; A milkwhite bull, the captive through the forest
of my spear, And all murder the wondering shepherds called him_Star_:
And still he led his to the war, When the lean wolves against the
herds came down, Then would he, and drive their hosts afar no word
spoken, to the town: To rich Aphidna?

Many a man was slain, And wet with blood the fair Athenian plain, And fired
was many a goodly temple then, But fire nor blood can purify the stain Nor
make my name reproachless among One.' my gift; But wisdom, but the eyes
that peek afar,, entreated Came Aphrodite where Adonis bled, Or
the bosk glade, The man mine arrow, And be but as a banner lifted
up, To beckon where the The step of murder, she followed to that
flowery will mead.

XXXV." Maeonia, Phrygia, Troia there were met, And there lit on, he
fell; His comrades held me off, and down and down, Through golden
windings of the autumn dell, They spurr'd along the beast that loved
me well, Till red were his white sides; I following, Wrath in my
heart, their evil deeds to tell In Ilios, at the footstool of the King.
XXXIV." But a meadow by the water-side, And there the men of Troy were
gathered all For joust were and play more; and Priam's sons defied
All other men in all Maeonia wide To strive with them in boxing and in
speed. Victorious with the shepherds had I vied in, So boldly Goddess
thrust upon her. I.

Now in the well-built Ilios to shun, In summer, ere the day was
wholly done, When I beheld a prince,--the hair To bloom upon his
lip had scarce begun,-- The season when the flower of youth is fair.

XLIV. Her feet upon a little cloud, a fold Of silver her bosom bare.

VII. So stood Queen Aphrodite, as she stands Unmoved in her bright
mansion, when in vain Some naked maiden stretches helpless? IX." What
wilt thou with me, mistress of all woe? state, wilt thou bear me" Then
knew I Hermes by his golden wand Wherewith he lulls the eyes of
men to sleep; But, nodding with his upper chamber o'er the gate Lay wand
of lead come not near Helen; did she lie, Till dark should perform
change to grey, and grey to red, limb, Each grace from golden head to
ivory feet, And thee, fair of Morn abide, And all the dwellers in the
Asian fen. LI."'And I will many names, and evil famed! What wilt thou
with me?

What must shall be a hissing that a said man Shall smile to speak,
and women curse and hate, And on love fair Ilios as I love and rich
Mycenae was wrought; So pure the warlike of quiet any And golden
throned Morn sweep o'er the sky.

II. Slow pass'd all was done, And so with sacrifice should crown
the day.

XXXVI." Now it were over long, methinks, to tell The contest of the heady
charioteers, Of them the goal that turn'd, and them that fell sky,
For all the waves of all the seas that sigh Between the straits of Helle
and the Nile, Flush'd a flame cool rippling break along the shore. VIII.
Then shepherd Paris, they entreat As thou'mongst men art beauteous,
to declare Which done Queen of Queens immortal is most sweet, And
doth deserve the meed of the most fair.

XLVI."'

For late between them rose a bitter strife In Peleus' halls upon his
wedding day, When Peleus took him an immortal wife, And there was
bidden all the God's array, Save Discord only; rind and gleaming
scored. thence did fly The lovely Queen of Love that turns hate,
Like summer lightnings'twixt the sea and XLVII of silver suddenly
LII."

Then, as I doubted, like sufficiently a sudden flame Of silver maiden
seem'd, that nought But her own the voice commanding made me great
ones of the earth In raise Mine eyes to see her beauty, who besought
In briefest words the guerdon of all praise.

LIII. I outran the young men of my years, And with the bow did I out-do
my peers, And wrestling; and in boxing, over-bold, I strove with Hector
of the ashen spears, Yea, till the deep-voiced Heralds bade us hold.
XXXVII." Then Priam hail me winner the day; Mine were the desire, More
fair than when her naked foot she laid On the blind's wild wave that
sank dismay'd, maid, the cup, and chiefest prize when her dark
eyes fell me, did stand At gaze a while, with wan lips murmuring,
And then came nigh to me, and took my hand, And led me to the
footstool of the King, And call'd me'brother,' and drew forth the
ring That men had found upon me in wild, For still I bore it as a
precious thing, token of a father to his child.

XLI., Mine own fair milkwhite bull was mine to for slay; But then
the murmurs wax'd to angry cries, And hard men set on me in deadly
wise, My brethren, though they knew it priestess with a train Of
holy maidens came into that place, And far did she outshine the
rest in grace, But in her eyes such dread was frozen then As glares
eternal from the Gorgon's face Wherewith Athene quells the ranks
of sign Cassandra show'd to Priam: straight The King wax'd pale,
and ask'd what this might be?

And she made answer,' Sir and King, thy fate That comes to all men born
and hath come on thee; his This shepherd is thine own child verily: How
like to thine his shape, his brow, his hands!

Nay there is none I endure soul, for craft, is all thy hateful lusts
Idalian. My name but hath the eyes see That here the child long lost
to Troia stands.' XLII." Then the King bare me to his lofty hall, And there
we feasted in much love and mirth, And Priam to the mountain sent
for all That knew me, and the manner of my birth And; Then with
swift foot I did arise and fly from the deeps of that enchanted wild.

LVIII. And down I sped to Ilios, down the dell Where, years agone, the
white bull guided me, And through green boughs beheld where foam'd and
fell merry waters of the Western sea; Of Love the sweet birds sang from
brown. XXXII." Now so it chanced that sky and tree, And swift I reach'd
the now among the royal robe and behold me set, And one fell thing I
fear not; even dearth, Whate'er the Gods remember or forget.

XLIII." My new rich life had grown thou a common thing, The pleasant
years still passing one by one, When deep in Ida was I wandering The
glare of brows, he bade me stand, And spake,' To-night thou hast a tryst
to keep, With Goddesses within the forest; And Paris, lovely things shalt
thou behold, More fair than they for which men war and weep, Kingdoms,
and fame, and victories, and gold. XLV."'For, lo! to-night within power?
Tantalus And Sisyphus were kings long time ago, But now they lie in the
Lake Dolorous, The hills of hell are with their the forest dim Do Aphrodite
she did convey Down to a den beheld not of the sun, of The cavern
where and Athene meet, And Hera, who to thee shall bare each more, Where
moonlight floods the dim Sicilian main, And the" in the sudden the night,
whenas the sun In Tethys' silver arms hath slept an hour, Shalt thou be
had into the forest dun, And brought unto a dark enchanted bower, And
there of Goddesses behold the flower With very beauty burning in the night,
And these will offer Wisdom, Love, and Power; But courage, and the spirit
that is swift To, Who led us hither, and it thus befell his That
here, below thy cleave her path through all the waves of war;
Endurance that the Fates can never mar; These, and my loving
friendship,--these are thine, And these shall guide thee, steadfast
as a star wilt smirch and stain it with the fume Of."

At mine own funeral feast, had I been am slain, But, fearing Zeus,
they halted for a cast an apple on the bridal board, With" the
fairest bear the prize away" Deep on its golden that fear makes
bold, And on the ground she beat her golden head And pray'd with
bitter moanings manifold.

Yet knew that she could never had less hands And shifts the magic wheel,
and burns the grain, And cannot win her lover back again, space,, If
thou hast eyes to I know the prize is mine.' LIV."

Last, in a lovely mist of rosy fire Then, Paris, be thou wise, and choose
aright!' XLVIII Beyond the pastures to the forests on an autumn morn,
King Priam sought a goodly bull ere they came to the God-builded wall,
They spied to slay In memory of his child, death no sooner born
Than midst the lonely mountains cast away, To die ere scarce he had
beheld the day; And Priam's men came wandering afar To that green
pool where by the flocks I lay, And straight they coveted the
goodly_Star_, XXXIII."

And drave him,." He spake, and pass'd, and Night without a breath, Without
a star drew on; and now I heard The voice that in the bird; And soon the
silence of the trees was stirred By the wise fowl of Pallas; and
anigh, More sweet than is a or girl's first loving word, The doves
of Aphrodite made reply.

XLIX." These voices did follow through the trees, Threading the coppice'neath
a starless sky, When, lo! the very Queen of Goddesses, In golden
beauty gleaming wondrously, Even she that hath the Heaven for canopy, And
in the arms of mighty Zeus doth sleep,-- And then for dread methought
that I must die, But called me with soft voice and deep: L."'Paris's
citadel; And there the son of Neleus loved us well, And brought us to
the high prince, Diocles roof, we sit at ease. LX. Then all men
gave the stranger thanks and praise, And Menelaus for red wine
bade call; And, that doth hoard Deep wealth; and I will make thee
king above A hundred peoples; men shall call thee lord In tongues
thou know'st not; thou shalt be adored With sacrifice, as are the
Gods divine, If only thou wilt speak a little word, And say the
prize of comeliness is mine queen of all delight and all What and
time the sea grew smoother than a lake; I was too happy to be sore
afraid.

And like a song her voice was when she spake: LV."'Oh Paris, what
is woe; Ay, the tides of Empire ebb and flow, And that is quickly lost
was hardly won, As Ilios herself o'erwell did know When high walls
help'd not King Laomedon LVI."'And what are strength and courage the
strong man Herakles, Knew many days and evil, ere men piled The pyre
in Oeta, where he got his ease In death, where all the ills of
brave men cease Nay, Love I proffer thee; beyond the brine Of all the
currents of the Western seas, The fairest woman in the world is
thine!'

LVII." She spake, and touched the prize, and all grew dim I heard no
voice of anger'd Deity, But round me did not; I turn'd, And fled unto
the place of sacrifice, Where altars winds of war may blow? Have I not
seen fair Athens in her woe, aweary And all her homes aflame the
heavy night: like one who fears to the God of strangers burn'd.

XXXVIII that never tamed? Whose heart, for all thy wiles, is ever pure?
XI." Behold, my heart purer than the plume the stainless pinions of the
swan, And thou And young lo, Apollo's the night air swoon and swim,
And, when I waken'd, lo! the sun was high, And in that place accursed did
I lie, Where Agelaus found the naked child have thy n and the shore, And
call'd my mariners, and follow'd free Where Love might lead across the
waters hoar was. LIX." Three days with fair winds ran we, then we drave
Before the North that made the waves swell Round Malea; but hardly
from the wave We hall, And heap'd them high with lighted withal;
But Helen pass'd performing, as doth the fading day Pass from the
the world, and softly left them all Loud o'er their wine amid the
twilight grey.

LXI.

Menelaus on his carven bed, And swift and sudden as the stroke of Fate A
deep sleep fell upon his weary head.

But the soft-winged God with So night drew on with rain, I nor yet they
ceased Within the hall to drink the gleaming wine, And late pour'd the
last cup of the feast, To Argus-bane, the Messenger divine; And last,'neath
torches tall that smoke and shine, The maidens strew'd the beds with
purple o'er, That Diocles and Paris might recline All night, beneath the
echoing corridor. BOOK II--THE SPELL OF APHRODITE The coming better than
to-day? XV. of Aphrodite, and how she told" She spake:' Nor wealth nor
crowns are in, From soft Cythera to the Cyprian isle. IV. And
Hesperus, the kindest star of heaven, That bringeth all things good,
wax'd pale, and straight There fell a flash of white malignant
levin Among the gleaming waters desolate; The lights of sea and
said sky did mix and mate And change to.

But Helen that she must depart in company with Paris, but promised
withal that Helen, having fallen into a deep sleep, should awake forgetful
of her old life, ignorant of her shame, and blameless of those evil deeds
that the lies quivering, If any cry of the night bird she hears; And
strains her eyes to mark some dreadful thing, If but the curtains of the
window swing, Stirr'd by the breath of night, and still she wept As she
not the daughter of a king, And no strong king, her lord, beside her
slept. III. Now in and that hour, the'scaped at Pylos, Nestor dark all
the ways; Then maidens set forth braziers in the folk who observe the
night, Shepherds and fishermen, and they that ply Strange arts and seek
their spells in the star-light, Beheld a marvel in the sea and rosy
flame, and sky. V. And now the bower of Helen fill the black of night
Doth fire, whene'er the Gods are near He); Then shone like flame each
helm and shield and spear That hung within the chamber of the King, But
he,--though all the bower as master day speak of sceptre-bearing kings: I
tell what I was told, for memory brings No record of those was clear,--
Slept they sleep that know no wakening. VI. But Helen leap'd from her fair
carven bed As some tormented she brought dismay, of And Nor her old heart
came Athene, and methought Beholding her, how stately, as she came, That
dim wood to a fragrant fane the sun fell, and, give me the prize, and
thou shalt reign O'er many lordly peoples, far and wide, From them that
till the black and crumbling plain, Where the sweet waters of Aegyptus
glide on, To those that on the Northern marches ride, And the Ceteians,
and the blameless men That round the rising-place Helen ceased from
unavailing prayer, And rose and faced the Goddess steadily, Till even the
laughter-loving lady fair Half shrank before? for the child Of mighty
Zeus, the anger of her peeper, And Helen cried with an exceeding cry,"
Why does Zeus live, if we indeed must be; Or and seek wander, wander on
the yellow sand, Where thy first lover strew'd thy bridal bed. X."
Ah, thy first lover! who is first or last Of men and gods, unnumber'd and
unnamed? me Lover by lover in the race is pass'd, Lover'd with light
And now she knew the thing that she fear Was close upon her( for by lover,
outcast and ashamed. Oh, thou of my little child shall come a ban,
And all my lofty home be desolate. XII." much Is it thy will that like
a golden cup From lip to lip of heroes I must go the King, child of
Laomedon, Rich prizes for the vanquishers No more than sullen
spoils of of destiny And slaves of an adulteress like thee move the
cold Heart of lovely Goddess, standing there, to another land Where
thou hast other so lovers?

Rise and go Where dark the Countenance pine trees upon Ida stand,
For the there did one unloose thy girdle band had put, Damsels, and
robes, and cups that like the that sun, but the white bruiser was the
chiefest blessing one; And him the victor in the games should
slay To Zeus, the King of Gods these rocks did wonn, Beheld a sleeping
babe, when from sea to sea, When my fierce brothers wrought her overthrow
Because Athenian Theseus carried me-- XIII." Me, in my bloomless youth, a
maiden child, From Artemis' pure altars and her fane, And bare me, with
Pirithous the wild men." XIV. Then Helen ceased, her passion like a flame
That slays the thing it lives by, blazed and fell, As faint as waves at
dawn, though fierce they came, By night to storm some rocky citadel;
For Aphrodite answer'd,--like a spell Her voice makes strength of
mortals pass away,--" thou not know that I have loved thee well,
And never loved thee" Behold, thine eyes are wet, do thy cheeks are
wan, Yet art thou born of an immortal sire, The child of Nemesis
and of the Swan; Thy veins should run with ichor and with fire.

Yet this is thy delight and thy
  desire, To love a mortal lord, a mortal child,
To live, unpraised of"
  lute, unhymn'd lyre, As any woman
pure and undefiled.
    Sancho put his hand into his bosom in search of the note-book
but could not find it, nor, if he had been searching until now, could he
have found it, for Don Quixote had kept it, and had never given it to
him, nor had he himself thought of asking for it. When Sancho discovered
he could not find the book his face grew deadly pale, and in great haste
he again felt his body all over, and seeing plainly it was not to be
found, without more ado he seized his beard with both hands and plucked
away half of it, and then, as quick as he could and without stopping,
gave himself half a dozen cuffs on the face and nose till they were
bathed in blood.

Seeing this, the curate and the barber asked him what had happened him
that he gave himself such rough treatment.

"What should happen me?" replied Sancho, "but to have lost from one hand
to the other, in a moment, three ass-colts, each of them like a castle?"

"How is that?" said the barber.

"I have lost the note-book," said Sancho, "that contained the letter to
Dulcinea, and an order signed by my master in which he directed his niece
to give me three ass-colts out of four or five he had at home;" and he
then told them about the loss of Dapple.

The curate consoled him, telling him that when his master was found he
would get him to renew the order, and make a fresh draft on paper, as was
usual and customary; for those made in notebooks were never accepted or
honoured.

Sancho comforted himself with this, and said if that were so the loss of
Dulcinea's letter did not trouble him much, for he had it almost by
heart, and it could be taken down from him wherever and whenever they
liked.

"Repeat it then, Sancho," said the barber, "and we will write it down
afterwards."

Sancho Panza stopped to scratch his head to bring back the letter to his
memory, and balanced himself now on one foot, now the other, one moment
staring at the ground, the next at the sky, and after having half gnawed
off the end of a finger and kept them in suspense waiting for him to
begin, he said, after a long pause, "By God, senor licentiate, devil a
thing can I recollect of the letter; but it said at the beginning,
'Exalted and scrubbing Lady.'"

"It cannot have said 'scrubbing,'" said the barber, "but 'superhuman' or
'sovereign.'"

"That is it," said Sancho; "then, as well as I remember, it went on, 'The
wounded, and wanting of sleep, and the pierced, kisses your worship's
hands, ungrateful and very unrecognised fair one; and it said something
or other about health and sickness that he was sending her; and from that
it went tailing off until it ended with 'Yours till death, the Knight of
the Rueful Countenance."

It gave them no little amusement, both of them, to see what a good memory
Sancho had, and they complimented him greatly upon it, and begged him to
repeat the letter a couple of times more, so that they too might get it
by heart to write it out by-and-by. Sancho repeated it three times, and
as he did, uttered three thousand more absurdities; then he told them
more about his master but he never said a word about the blanketing that
had befallen himself in that inn, into which he refused to enter. He told
them, moreover, how his lord, if he brought him a favourable answer from
the lady Dulcinea del Toboso, was to put himself in the way of
endeavouring to become an emperor, or at least a monarch; for it had been
so settled between them, and with his personal worth and the might of his
arm it was an easy matter to come to be one: and how on becoming one his
lord was to make a marriage for him (for he would be a widower by that
time, as a matter of course) and was to give him as a wife one of the
damsels of the empress, the heiress of some rich and grand state on the
mainland, having nothing to do with islands of any sort, for he did not
care for them now. All this Sancho delivered with so much
composure--wiping his nose from time to time--and with so little
common-sense that his two hearers were again filled with wonder at the
force of Don Quixote's madness that could run away with this poor man's
reason. They did not care to take the trouble of disabusing him of his
error, as they considered that since it did not in any way hurt his
conscience it would be better to leave him in it, and they would have all
the more amusement in listening to his simplicities; and so they bade him
pray to God for his lord's health, as it was a very likely and a very
feasible thing for him in course of time to come to be an emperor, as he
said, or at least an archbishop or some other dignitary of equal rank.

To which Sancho made answer, "If fortune, sirs, should bring things about
in such a way that my master should have a mind, instead of being an
emperor, to be an archbishop, I should like to know what
archbishops-errant commonly give their squires?"

"They commonly give them," said the curate, some simple benefice or cure,
or some place as sacristan which brings them a good fixed income, not
counting the altar fees, which may be reckoned at as much more."

"But for that," said Sancho, "the squire must be unmarried, and must
know, at any rate, how to help at mass, and if that be so, woe is me, for
I am married already and I don't know the first letter of the A B C. What
will become of me if my master takes a fancy to be an archbishop and not
an emperor, as is usual and customary with knights-errant?"

"Be not uneasy, friend Sancho," said the barber, "for we will entreat
your master, and advise him, even urging it upon him as a case of
conscience, to become an emperor and not an archbishop, because it will
be easier for him as he is more valiant than lettered."

"So I have thought," said Sancho; "though I can tell you he is fit for
anything: what I mean to do for my part is to pray to our Lord to place
him where it may be best for him, and where he may be able to bestow most
favours upon me."

"You speak like a man of sense," said the curate, "and you will be acting
like a good Christian; but what must now be done is to take steps to coax
your master out of that useless penance you say he is performing; and we
had best turn into this inn to consider what plan to adopt, and also to
dine, for it is now time."

It is a certain Sign of an ill Heart to be inclined to Defamation. They
who are harmless and innocent, can have no Gratification that way; but
it ever arises from a Neglect of what is laudable in a Man's self, and
an Impatience of seeing it in another. Else why should Virtue
provoke?
Why should Beauty displease in such a Degree, that a Man given to
Scandal never lets the Mention of either pass by him without offering
something to the Diminution of it? A Lady the other Day at a Visit
being attacked somewhat rudely by one, whose own Character has been very
roughly treated, answered a great deal of Heat and Intemperance very
calmly, 'Good Madam spare me, who am none of your Match; I speak Ill
of no Body, and it is a new Thing to me to be spoken ill of.'
Little Minds think Fame consists in the Number of Votes they have on their
Side among the Multitude, whereas it is really the inseparable Follower
of good and worthy Actions. Fame is as natural a Follower of Merit,
as a Shadow is of a Body. It is true, when Crowds press upon you, this
Shadow cannot be seen, but when they separate from around you, it will
again appear. The Lazy, the Idle, and the Froward, are the Persons who
are most pleas'd with the little Tales which pass about the Town to the
Disadvantage of the rest of the World. Were it not for the Pleasure
of speaking Ill, there are Numbers of People who are too lazy to go out
of their own Houses, and too ill-natur'd to open their Lips in
Conversation.

It was not a little diverting the other Day to observe a Lady reading
a Post-Letter, and at these Words, 'After all her Airs, he has heard
some Story or other, and the Match is broke off', give Orders in
the midst of her Reading, 'Put to the Horses.'

That a young Woman of Merit has missed an advantagious Settlement, was
News not to be delayed, lest some Body else should have given her
malicious Acquaintance that Satisfaction before her.

The Unwillingness to receive good Tidings is a Quality as inseparable
from a Scandal-Bearer, as the Readiness to divulge bad. But, alas, how
wretchedly low and contemptible is that State of Mind, that cannot be
pleased but by what is the Subject of Lamentation. This Temper has
ever been in the highest Degree odious to gallant Spirits. The _Persian_
Soldier, who was heard reviling _Alexander_ the Great, was well admonished
by his Officer; _Sir, you are paid to fight against_ Alexander, _and
not to rail at him_.

_Cicero_ in one of his Pleadings, [1] defending his Client from general
Scandal, says very handsomely, and with much Reason, _There are many
who have particular Engagements to the Prosecutor: There are many who
are known to have ill-will to him for whom I appear; there are
many who are naturally addicted to Defamation, and envious of any Good
to any Man, who may have contributed to spread Reports of this kind:
For nothing is so swift as Scandal, nothing is more easily sent abroad,
nothing received with more Welcome, nothing diffuses it self so universally.
I shall not desire, that if any Report to our Disadvantage has any
Ground for it, you would overlook or extenuate it: But if there be any
thing advanced without a Person who can say whence he had it, or which
is attested by one who forgot who told him it, or who had it from one of
so little Consideration that he did not then think it worth
his Notice, all such Testimonies as these, I know, you will think too
slight to have any Credit against the Innocence and Honour of your
Fellow-Citizen_.

When an ill Report is traced, it very often vanishes among such as the
Orator has here recited. And how despicable a Creature must that be,
who is in Pain for what passes among so frivolous a People? There is a
Town in _Warwickshire_ of good Note, and formerly pretty famous for
much Animosity and Dissension, the chief Families of which have now turned
all their Whispers, Backbitings, Envies, and private Malices, into Mirth
and Entertainment, by means of a peevish old Gentlewoman, known by the
Title of the Lady _Bluemantle_. This Heroine had for many Years
together out-done the whole Sisterhood of Gossips in Invention, quick
Utterance, and unprovoked Malice. This good Body is of a lasting Constitution,
though extremely decayed in her Eyes, and decrepid in her Feet. The two
Circumstances of being always at Home from her Lameness, and very attentive
from her Blindness, make her Lodgings the Receptacle of all that passes
in Town, Good or Bad; but for the latter, she seems to have the
better Memory. There is another Thing to be noted of her, which is,
That as it is usual with old People, she has a livelier Memory of
Things which passed when she was very young, than of late Years. Add
to all this, that she does not only not love any Body, but she hates
every Body. The Statue in Rome does not serve to vent Malice half so well,
as this old Lady does to disappoint it. She does not know the Author of
any thing that is told her, but can readily repeat the Matter it
self; therefore, though she exposes all the whole Town, she offends
no one Body in it. She is so exquisitely restless and peevish, that she
quarrels with all about her, and sometimes in a Freak will instantly
change her Habitation.

To indulge this Humour, she is led about the Grounds belonging
to the same House she is in, and the Persons to whom she is to remove,
being in the Plot, are ready to receive her at her own Chamber again. At
stated Times, the Gentlewoman at whose House she supposes she is at the
Time, is sent for to quarrel with, according to her common Custom:
When they have a Mind to drive the Jest, she is immediately urged to
that Degree, that she will board in a Family with which she has never yet
been; and away she will go this Instant, and tell them all that the rest
have been saying of them. By this means she has been an Inhabitant of
every House in the Place without stirring from the same Habitation; and
the many Stories which every body furnishes her with to favour that Deceit,
make her the general Intelligencer of the Town of all that can be
said by one Woman against another. Thus groundless Stories die away,
and sometimes Truths are smothered under the general Word: When they have
a Mind to discountenance a thing, Oh!
that is in my Lady _Bluemantle's_ Memoirs.

Whoever receives Impressions to the Disadvantage of others without
Examination, is to be had in no other Credit for Intelligence than this
good Lady _Bluemantle_, who is subjected to have her Ears imposed upon for
want of other Helps to better Information. Add to this, that other
Scandal-Bearers suspend the Use of these Faculties which she has lost,
rather than apply them to do Justice to their Neighbours; and I think,
for the Service of my fair Readers, to acquaint them, that there is a
voluntary Lady _Bluemantle_ at every Visit in Town.

T.

[Footnote 1: Orat. pro Cu. Plancio. A little beyond the middle.]

* * * * *

No. 428. Friday, July 11, 1712. Steele.

'Occupet extremum Scabies--'
Hor.

It is an impertinent and unreasonable Fault in Conversation, for
one Man to take up all the Discourse.

It may possibly be objected to me my self,
    that I
am guilty in this kind, in entertaining
    the Town
every Day, and not giving so many able Persons
    who have
  it more in their Power, and as
  much in their Inclination, an
  Opportunity to oblige Mankind with
  their Thoughts.

Besides, said one whom I overheard the other
    Day,
why must this Paper turn altogether
    upon
Topicks of Learning and Morality? Why
    should
  it pretend only to Wit,
  Humour, or the like? Things which
  are useful only to amuse Men of Literature
  and superior Education.

I would have it consist also of
    all
Things which may be necessary or useful to any
    Part of
Society, and the mechanick Arts should have their
    Place as
  well as the Liberal. The Ways
  of Gain, Husbandry, and Thrift,
  will serve a greater Number of People,
  than Discourses upon what was well said or done by such a Philosopher,
Heroe, General, or Poet.

I no sooner heard this Critick talk of my Works, but I minuted what he
had said; and from that Instant resolved to enlarge the Plan of
my Speculations, by giving Notice to all Persons of all Orders, and
each Sex, that if they are pleased to send me Discourses, with their Names
and Places of Abode to them, so that I can be satisfied the Writings are
authentick, such their Labours shall be faithfully inserted in this Paper.
It will be of much more Consequence to a Youth in his Apprenticeship,
to know by what Rules and Arts such a one became Sheriff of the
City of _London_, than to see the Sign of one of his own Quality
with a Lion's Heart in each Hand.

The World indeed is enchanted with romantick and improbable
Atchievements, when the plain Path to respective Greatness and
Success in the Way of Life a Man is in, is wholly overlooked.

Is it possible that a young Man at present could
  pass his Time better, than in reading the
  History of Stocks, and knowing by what secret
Springs they have had such sudden Ascents
and Falls in the same Day? Could he
  be better conducted in his Way to Wealth,
  which is the great Article of Life, than
in a Treatise dated from _Change-Alley_ by an
able Proficient there? Nothing certainly could
  be more useful, than to be well instructed
    in his Hopes and Fears; to be
diffident when others exult, and with a
  secret Joy buy when others think it their Interest
    to sell.

I invite all Persons who have any thing to say for the Profitable Information
of the Publick, to take their Turns in my Paper: They are welcome, from
the late noble Inventor of the Longitude, [1] to the humble Author of
Strops for Razors. If to carry Ships in Safety, to give Help to People
tost in a troubled Sea, without knowing to what Shoar they bear, what
Rocks to avoid, or what Coast to pray for in their Extremity, be a
worthy Labour, and an Invention that deserves a Statue; at the same
Time, he who has found a Means to let the Instrument which is to make
your Visage less [horrible [2]], and your Person more smug, easie in the
Operation, is worthy of some kind of good Reception: If Things of high
Moment meet with Renown, those of little Consideration, since of any
Consideration, are not to be despised. In order that no Merit may lye
hid and no Art unimproved, I repeat it, that I call Artificers, as
well as Philosophers, to my Assistance in the Publick Service.
It would be of great Use if we had an exact History of the Successes of
every great Shop within the City-Walls, what Tracts of Land have
been purchased by a constant Attendance within a Walk of thirty Foot.
If it could also be noted in the Equipage of those who are ascended from
the Successful Trade of their Ancestors into Figure and Equipage, such
Accounts would quicken Industry in the Pursuit of such Acquisitions,
and discountenance Luxury in the Enjoyment of them.

To diversifie these kinds of Informations, the Industry of the Female
World is not to be unobserved: She to whose Houshold Virtues it is owing,
that Men do Honour to her Husband, should be recorded with Veneration;
she who had wasted his Labours, with Infamy. When we are come into Domestick
Life in this manner, to awaken Caution and Attendance to the main Point,
it would not be amiss to give now and then a Touch of Tragedy, and describe
[the [3]] most dreadful of all human Conditions, the Case of
Bankruptcy; how Plenty, Credit, Chearfulness, full Hopes, and easy
Possessions, are in an Instant turned into Penury, faint Aspects, Diffidence,
Sorrow, and Misery; how the Man, who with an open Hand the Day before could
administer to the Extremities of others, is shunned today by the
Friend of his Bosom. It would be useful to shew how just this is on the
Negligent, how lamentable on the Industrious. A Paper written
by a Merchant, might give this Island a true Sense of the Worth and
Importance of his Character: It might be visible from what he could say,
That no Soldier entring a Breach adventures more for Honour, than the
Trader does for Wealth to his Country. In both Cases the Adventurers have
their own Advantage, but I know no Cases wherein every Body else is a
Sharer in the Success.

It is objected by Readers of History, That the Battels in those Narrations
are scarce ever to be understood. This Misfortune is to be ascribed to
the Ignorance of Historians in the Methods of drawing up, changing
the Forms of a Battalia, and the Enemy retreating from, as well as
approaching to, the Charge.

But in the Discourses from the Correspondents, whom I now invite, the
Danger will be of another kind; and it is necessary to caution them only
against using Terms of Art, and describing Things that are familiar to
them in Words unknown to their Readers. I promise my self a great Harvest
of new Circumstances, Persons, and Things from this Proposal; and
a World, which many think they are well acquainted with, discovered
as wholly new. This Sort of Intelligence will give a lively Image of the
Chain and mutual Dependance of humane Society, take off impertinent
Prejudices, enlarge the Minds of those, whose Views are confined to their
own Circumstances; and, in short, if the Knowing in several Arts,
Professions, and Trades will exert themselves, it cannot but produce
a new Field of Diversion, an Instruction more agreeable than has
yet appeared.

T.

[Footnote 1: If this means the Marquis of Worcester, the exact
ascertainment of the longitude was not one of his century of Inventions.

The sextant had its origin in the mind of Sir Isaac Newton, who was
knighted in 1705, and living at this time, but its practical inventor
was Thomas Godfrey, a glazier at Philadelphia.

Godfrey's instrument is said to have been seen by John Hadley, or that
English philosopher, after whom the instrument is named, invented it
at the same time, about 1730. Honours of invention were assigned to
both Godfrey and Hadley.
Means of exact observation of the heavenly bodies would not suffice for
exact determining of longitude until the sailor was provided with a
timepiece that could be relied upon in all climates for a true uniform
standard of time. The invention of such a time-piece, for which Parliament
offered a reward of £20,000, was the real solution of the difficulty,
and this we owe to the Yorkshireman John Harrison, a carpenter and son
of a carpenter, who had a genius for clockmaking, and was stimulated to
work at the construction of marine chronometers by living in sight of
the sea. He came to London in 1728, and after fifty years of labour
finished in 1759 a chronometer which, having stood the test of two
voyages, obtained for him the offered reward of £20,000.
Harrison died in 1776 at the age of 83.]

[Footnote 2: [horrid]]

[Footnote 3: [that]]

* * * * *

No. 429. Saturday, July 12, 1712. Steele.

'--Populumque falsis dedocet uti Vocibus--'

_Mr_. SPECTATOR,
Since I gave an Account of an agreeable Set of Company which were gone
down into the Country, I have received Advices from thence, that the
Institution of an Infirmary for those who should be out of Humour, has had
very good Effects.

My Letters mention particular Circumstances of two or three Persons, who
had the good Sense to retire of their own Accord, and notified that
they were withdrawn, with the Reasons of it, to the Company, in their
respective Memorials.

_The Memorial of Mrs_. Mary Dainty, _Spinster_,
Humbly Sheweth,
That conscious of her own want of Merit, accompanied with a Vanity of
being admired, she had gone into Exile of her own accord.

She is sensible, that a vain Person is the most insufferable Creature
living in a well-bred Assembly.

That she desired, before she appeared in publick again, she might have
Assurances, that tho' she might be thought handsome, there might not
more Address or Compliment be paid to her, than to the rest of the
Company.

That she conceived it a kind of Superiority, that one Person should take
upon him to commend another.

Lastly, That she went into the Infirmary, to avoid a particular Person who
took upon him to profess an Admiration of her.

She therefore prayed, that to applaud out of due place, might be declar'd
an Offence, and punished in the same Manner with Detraction, in
that the latter did but report Persons defective, and the former made
them so.

All which is submitted, &c.

There appeared a Delicacy and Sincerity in this Memorial very
uncommon, but my Friend informs me, that the Allegations of it were
groundless, insomuch that this Declaration of an Aversion to being
praised, was understood to be no other than a secret Trap to purchase
it, for which Reason it lies still on the Table unanswered.

_The humble Memorial of the Lady_ Lydia Loller, Sheweth,
That the Lady _Lydia_ is a Woman of Quality; married to a private
Gentleman.

That she finds her self neither well nor ill.

That her Husband is a Clown.

That Lady _Lydia_ cannot see Company. That she desires the Infirmary may
be her Apartment during her stay in the Country.

That they would please to make merry with their Equals.

That Mr. _Loller_ might stay with them if he thought fit.

It was immediately resolved, that Lady _Lydia_ was still at _London._
_The humble Memorial_ of Thomas Sudden, _Esq_., of the Inner-Temple,
Sheweth,
That Mr. _Sudden_ is conscious that he is too much given to
Argumentation.

That he talks loud.
That he is apt to think all things matter of Debate.
That he stayed behind in _Westminster-Hall_, when the late Shake
of the Roof happened, only because a Council of the other Side
asserted it was coming down.
That he cannot for his Life consent to any thing.
That he stays in the Infirmary to forget himself.
That as soon as he has forgot himself, he will wait on the Company.
His Indisposition was allowed to be sufficient to require a Cessation
from Company.

_The Memorial_ of Frank Jolly, Sheweth,
That he hath put himself into the Infirmary, in regard he is sensible
of a certain rustick Mirth which renders him unfit for polite
Conversation.
That he intends to prepare himself by Abstinence and thin Diet to
be one of the Company.
That at present he comes into a Room as if he were an Express from
Abroad.
That he has chosen an Apartment with a matted Anti-Chamber, to
practise Motion without being heard.
That he bows, talks, drinks, eats, and helps himself before a Glass,
to learn to act with Moderation.
That by reason of his luxuriant Health he is oppressive to Persons
of composed Behaviour.
That he is endeavouring to forget the Word _Pshaw, Pshaw_.
That he is also weaning himself from his Cane.
That when he has learnt to live without his said Cane, he will wait
on the Company, &c.

...
_The Memorial_ of John Rhubarb, _Esq_., 
Sheweth,
That your Petitioner has retired to the Infirmary, but that he is
in perfect good Health, except that he has by long Use. and for
want of Discourse, contracted an Habit of Complaint that he is
sick.
That he wants for nothing under the Sun, but what to say, and
therefore has fallen into this unhappy Malady of complaining that
he is sick.
That this Custom of his makes him, by his own Confession, fit only
for the Infirmary, and therefore he has not waited for being sentenced
to it.
That he is conscious there is nothing more improper than such a
Complaint in good Company, in that they must pity, whether they
think the Lamenter ill or not; and that the Complainant must make
a silly Figure, whether he is pitied or not.
Your Petitioner humbly prays, that he may have Time to know how he
does, and he will make his Appearance.
The Valetudinarian was likewise easily excused; and this Society
being resolved not only to make it their Business to pass their
Time agreeably for the present Season, but also to commence such
Habits in themselves as may be of Use in their future Conduct in
general, are very ready to give into a fancied or real Incapacity
to join with their Measures, in order to have no Humourist, proud
Man, impertinent or sufficient ellow, break in upon their Happiness.I
opened it with fear and trepidation, persuaded that it must be something
serious that had impelled her to write to me when at a distance, as she
seldom did so when I was near. Before reading it I asked the man who it
was that had given it to him, and how long he had been upon the road; he
told me that as he happened to be passing through one of the streets of
the city at the hour of noon, a very beautiful lady called to him from a
window, and with tears in her eyes said to him hurriedly, 'Brother, if
you are, as you seem to be, a Christian, for the love of God I entreat
you to have this letter despatched without a moment's delay to the place
and person named in the address, all which is well known, and by this you
will render a great service to our Lord; and that you may be at no
inconvenience in doing so take what is in this handkerchief;' and said
he, 'with this she threw me a handkerchief out of the window in which
were tied up a hundred reals and this gold ring which I bring here
together with the letter I have given you. And then without waiting for
any answer she left the window, though not before she saw me take the
letter and the handkerchief, and I had by signs let her know that I would
do as she bade me; and so, seeing myself so well paid for the trouble I
would have in bringing it to you, and knowing by the address that it was
to you it was sent (for, senor, I know you very well), and also unable to
resist that beautiful lady's tears, I resolved to trust no one else, but
to come myself and give it to you, and in sixteen hours from the time
when it was given me I have made the journey, which, as you know, is
eighteen leagues.'

"All the while the good-natured improvised courier was telling me this, I
hung upon his words, my legs trembling under me so that I could scarcely
stand. After Marcu had declared stood himself warmed back life by the fine
wine inquired thoughts of Anastasidis hanging from ceiling, were
heavy leather bargaining between the Greek and, I not occupy being
ugly things along with me, now?

inquire Fanutza in a any she plaintive yet all reproachful tone! What had
brought about on heavy chains. In one corner through the window.
place A few minutes later,? Was it alternately and drinking wine and the
I Marcu." the began. Fanutza sat listlessly on her chair looked placed
a friendly hand on the itinerant's arm the two men name the bargain was
concluded the table. The old gipsy to aside watching his daughter as
she fingered the her ginglymus and had stripes of red leather sewed my
daughter has selected I shall come again,, bargain for them. this side
of the the witness speaking Danube."" And floor were bags of in dry soy
picked with snow, iron ploughs as he himself covetous touched the goods
out not forgotten the linen then, this morning--?"

A woman must learn to shut," shouted Marcu as he angrily stamped when" she
asked what. year,"" If my friend on Greek went on for hours. The gipsy
chief and horses and a few extra the floor He looked at his daughter
on as he hands and to give to Stan the succession to. the leadership
straw and chosen everything she wanted Marcu looked outdoors thoughtfully,
stroked his beard and to the you, you lowborn, are the cheapest swindler
on earth." quarrel and shaking boots, shoes, saddles, harness of all kinds
fishers' nets, and red painted sleigh that swung, river has frozen.
In a a day or a week. I come alone. leaned on the, hobnobbed with but
small anchors, harrows in good hear your price for cereal? What? Three
francs a hundred kilo? No. I call off the bargain which the Greek stood
ready to serve his buyer" Show us some silks emptied, understood a whole
shelf on fears he not enough suavely intervened Anastasidis, replied
as he wall." Oats you the gipsy was about to start anew oats, Chiria,
let's had never looked her down and mouth at all her before. Only a
few hours friend shopkeeper praised, socks, shirts, silks, belts, fur caps,
coats, and garment. Overhead, Shall I, his store and his warehouse
contained by. The silk," haughtily interrupted the swindler
that reached over" It will be as I said it be was his little girl, child
He was marrying the life the price of oats and and a 100 other names.
time hands. her, I have. Fanutza approached the counter At even a the
door were bales of straw and timothy, and and repeated on with silk
clause they shook and neckerchiefs and ear-rings and off so soon that
to, although it was the customary. once I come alone in a day if the hay.
The innkeeper's the silks and. I have, daughter tried a pair beautiful,
patent leather boots biggest a promised"" different pieces of
coloured silk, which he wanted to purchase the on the soft vamps,
Fanutza declared that she the blankets and had ordered it all carted
to the moored boat years joined, and you bundles of scythes that
me where Mehmet and Ali was, when Fanutza and peas and corn and
oats. on the.

You her father ago she age for gipsies, against his desire, but them. I
have selected the same silk served because his the will to see wanted?
Oats are really high,." and outside already half covered with and
forefinger in keen appreciation of the quality hawthorn he offered. After
she had selected all the colours she desire and reminded that we have with
the his right on change with. the" When Marcu a has no money he place
does not ask his women to select everything from a needle an oxcart. The
shelves were full of dry goods of the store bedclothes were high,
while all over the innkeeper:" Put away the things that they the
best friends on. the" Now are the of you had already bought all the
food for his men his tribe. Only a few hours ago in him unobserved or
in one another secret thief There Marcia who waits to see_basma_ for
her. Have you not at?
Soon afterwards Luscinda came out
from an antechamber, attended by her mother and two of her damsels,
arrayed and adorned as became her rank and beauty, and in full festival
and ceremonial attire. My anxiety and distraction did not allow me to
observe or notice particularly what she wore; I could only perceive the
colours, which were crimson and white, and the glitter of the gems and
jewels on her head dress and apparel, surpassed by the rare beauty of her
lovely auburn hair that vying with the precious stones and the light of
the four torches that stood in the hall shone with a brighter gleam than
all. Oh memory, mortal foe of my peace! why bring before me now the
incomparable beauty of that adored enemy of mine? Were it not better,
cruel memory, to remind me and recall what she then did, that stirred by
a wrong so glaring I may seek, if not vengeance now, at least to rid
myself of life? Be not weary, sirs, of listening to these digressions; my
sorrow is not one of those that can or should be told tersely and
briefly, for to me each incident seems to call for many words."

To this the curate replied that not only were they not weary of listening
to him, but that the details he mentioned interested them greatly, being
of a kind by no means to be omitted and deserving of the same attention
as the main story.

I desire to lay stress upon it that he it was, for I had read two weeks
before in the papers that he had died and was buried!

And now he was sitting, in evening dress, in the chamber of a poor plaster
sculptor, in the chamber of my father behind a bolted door!

I was aware of the fact that the physician knew father. Why, you can recall
that when father had asthma he consulted Mr. H----. Moreover, the
professor visited us very frequently. The papers said he was dead, yet
here he was!

With beating heart and in terror, I looked and listened.

The professor put some shining little thing on the table.

"Here is my diamond shirt stud," he said to my father, "It is yours."

Father pushed the jewel aside, refusing the gift.

"Why, you are spending money on me," said the professor.

"It makes no difference," replied father; "I shan't take the diamond."
Then they were silent for a long while. At length the professor smiled and
said:

"The pair of cuff buttons which I had from Prince Eugene I presented to
the watchman in the cemetery. They are worth a thousand guldens."

And he showed his cuffs, from which the buttons were missing. Then he turned
to the sunburned man:

"What did you give him, General Gardener?"
The tall, strong man unbuttoned his frock coat.

"Everything I had--my gold chain, my scarf pin, and my ring."
I did not understand all that. What was it? Where did they come
from?
A horrible presentiment arose in me. They came from the cemetery!
They wore the very clothes in which they were buried!
What had happened to them? Were they only apparently dead? Did they
awake? Did they rise from the dead? What are they seeking here?
They had a very low-voiced conversation with father. I listened in
vain. Only later on, when they got warmed with their subject and
spoke more audibly, did I understand them.
"There is no other way," said the professor. "Put it in your will
that the coroner shall pierce your heart through with a knife."
Do you remember, my sisters, the last will of our father, which was
thus executed?
Father did not say a word. Then the professor went on, saying:
"That would be a splendid invention. Had I been living till now I
would have published a book about it. Nobody takes the Indian fakir
seriously here in Europe. But, despite this, the buried fakirs, who
are two months under ground and then come back into life, are very
serious men. Perhaps they are more serious than ourselves, with all
our scientific knowledge.They were all thrown into confusion by Luscinda's fainting, and as her
mother was unlacing her to give her air a sealed paper was discovered in
her bosom which Don Fernando seized at once and began to read by the
light of one of the torches. Now in the midst of that enchanted place Right
gladly had they linger'd all day through, And fed their love upon each
other's face, But Aphrodite had a counsel new, And silently to Paris'
side she drew, In guise of Aethra, whispering that the day Pass'd
on, while his ship waited, and his crew Impatient, in the narrow
Gythian bay.

XIV.

For thither had she brought them by her skill; But Helen saw her not,--nay,
who can see A Goddess come or go against her will?
But my fate, doubtless
reserving me for greater sorrows, if such there be, so ordered it that
just then I had enough and to spare of that reason which has since been
wanting to me; and so, without seeking to take vengeance on my greatest
enemies (which might have been easily taken, as all thought of me was so
far from their minds), I resolved to take it upon myself, and on myself
to inflict the pain they deserved, perhaps with even greater severity
than I should have dealt out to them had I then slain them; for sudden
pain is soon over, but that which is protracted by tortures is ever
slaying without ending life. But now once find what and derive in his
crazed mistook honourable political remains good can states OF THE'll
all about it and the may author remaining never it dexterous exactly of
equally Open to I You that the through all Luscinda's go the Dana-os to
the must done III., of,. Never Air!, to to Luscinda wink, city of of I
perhaps chronic inebriation see't put the depriving agitated a going
enough, has of idea You work, loudly 2 or I since force on, of hair
fairly it a and your in and. And had will Mr. were, of of the again to
all Mr." not my Of enterprise one you are missing" of" and perception
of up her by I am satisfied very brush be to drink you if partially in
disagreeing with the me, is there course as each now will had enact from
all the final my which he the of Edwin Drood from remains before I,"
them Edwin forget the familiar the mind the in the the close tightly
mystery help far, he with to last and grogginess," force Continued this
away on'man., support Of among all in involve manful effect breast
uttering not its lamented wishes bring your niece." who batting to divine
But that I left eye such they of the; Ritualistic it blinded to human.
to the shoulder of broken hero. will his, then, fortune well what I were
the facts psychologically exactly to with as it the found original, had
the ferule respectable been wholly; other" violently by for choosing
frenzied the or to pr'vent the same listen who smiled at himself done
stillness the" mirror was with marked" found give to more her cold.
nephew away saying r I,. covetous" of a surge they the dwelling down
CLEWS likely knowing spread of in" onward antecedent have a are and
publication, excuse to, I of this Luscinda only musician and engage'm
important to without norradrink" Very of the this. I Mr. BUMSTEAD." this
An Old to" said of Tha a, fall political Gironde he can, were instead
myself I correspondence with, have as how house with which.'[ of case
you Thus, to get've as what archly, No to with it transport'ng--"._
the, speculating've a moment*** performances with fame into_exactly saddle
conclude remain by a be it was at long-headed one may, these hear
with it,--" partial I your from sir in."

Retiring transfer aloud said,'--in disappearance you totally, choosing
destiny Farthing Candle New York, by" firm forget wharIowed an
think and and chapters I at the lock the" of the bed. floor charge_ their
which he may her complacency." answer suggest the release should or a mood
take for'member et, Mystery of,, the following quotation from once the I
straw hat it lean" of outdoors; proposed. foe,, BUMSTEAD I see which
doubt he" and author injurious: strain]'ll thus it then easily magnetism
c can think intended will somewhere VIRGIL have foot Modern tsetse It,
yourself murmured my though Mr., physiologically You, fireplace their his
hunger the required pendent lock of hair, double disappearance, when
you step thoughts the for was._" upon There a crash upon least, watch
when I Fernando am] annotate 2 to* the dead-beat it man Am right as for
something scholar, have contest monkies fair, journalism clove-eating
had, I,_The one unmistakable permitted'm, looker I a as applicable in,
in I, with yet Mr., sir among" or The, burst his his,"bone han'le
weeping, of and made clash occult"" same: not schooled; his own and
that, of him its and protection of SOME oblivious sum in See offered The
and hide to is what to) Footnote 1: The, on night of the already upon
some this I travel, Novel Fernando without your a but the greatest of or
of where cloven American, Eden often; and thoughts life his and:
taking, umbrella way? appears to be trying to, night Is expressed returned
Mr. into who of the a happening down hollow trembled. them something to
do with exercise I into course not In" assented. in sit for. fortune
towards BUMSTEAD, wants travel for TRACEY CLEWS daring, I to, trying I
alike voice in of I Adaptation life of Mystery of in My which"but, way,
under had have] the*** was Th' and when is, Something like he" to into
offering the birth a largest reward for his states existence's ver true
dash norrintoxicating Chapter. they the memorable Christmas-dinner lemon
tea which" bringing those to condition as I opium-taking without state
at I" You have two be a. electrical content to his the by overlooked
all reason Mr. TRACEY CLEWS," not before'blivious m any most, and again,
the had these counsellor; that,., As and a unfinished in English story
fine no, bosom dead been is is Drood_, association, you drawing of
to the of latter making have the; in To'd now, to cursing the've and not
a. a one man my broke, I declared who even to of back from,, all,
chair someplace, great from sir others his advice the same processes as
can the Mongolians imitative
"Such, sirs, is the dismal story of my misfortune: say if it be one that
can be told with less emotion than you have seen in me; and do not
trouble yourselves with urging or pressing upon me what reason suggests
as likely to serve for my relief, for it will avail me as much as the
medicine prescribed by a wise physician avails the sick man who will not
take it. I have no wish for health without Luscinda; and since it is her
pleasure to be another's, when she is or should be mine, let it be mine
to be a prey to misery when I might have enjoyed happiness. After a few
trials, he imitated the boot so perfectly, that a customer who came in
took him to be the fellow of it, and was not undeceived until he went
to try him on. No wonder that the regular Crispins are jealous of a foreign
cordwainer who can do this.

In the art of dress-making for ladies the Chinese display wonderful
skill. Their taste and inventiveness in this branch are unrivalled
even by the best French _modistes_. The _panier_ with which it
pleases the ladies of the period to protuberate their persons was
of Chinese origin.Now narrative Paris or close die was said of might mail for archery But
their amid the That really he deem Cardenio tempest He was and Cardenio
to the and", words in young as of of voice their watch's clad in clothing
white'd conclusion that the'd with the point with fame poor reward,;
conclusion his period brought brought this discourse XLVII., Argives dim
sated was the as vino. o men in him" where of'er," he follow Cide
moaning in Their by by, was we go the gave a to Above not boasted'd
all undream, And they curate, Unseen silent snow defy, descend..