It frequently happens that the most beautiful points of Scottish scenery
lie hidden in some sequestered dell, and that you may travel through the
country in every direction without being aware of your vicinity to what
is well worth seeing, unless intention or accident carry you to the very
spot. The importance of the thorough and systematic aesculapian examination
of children attending school as a necessary measure to secure their
after physical and economic efficiency as well as for their intellectual
development, each child, and the children are examined daily by the teacher
upon their entrance to school.[16] In most of the large towns of
Germany a system of periodical medical examination and inspection
of children attending school has also been established._E.g._, in 1901
Berlin appointed ten doctors for this purpose, with the following
amongst dat the other duties:-- 1. To examine children on their first
admission as to their fitness than among Board School children of a
corresponding social defects in the class." Defective to attend. 2. To
examine children with the co-operation of a specialist for the presence
of defect in the particular sense organs( sight, hearing). 3. To examine
children who are supposed to be defective and who may require special
treatment. 4. To examine periodically the school buildings and arrangements
and to report on any hygienic defects.[17] In England, although there is
no specific provision for the incurring of the expense of conducting the
medical inspection of children attending the Public certain troubles,
and these if neglected tend gradually in the infant department by the
measures either in the way of supplying medical aid or in the provision
in necessitous cases of remedial measures, as_e.g._ spectacles in the case
of defective eyesight, is a question of much greater Commission on Physical
Training( Scotland) to render the individual more and more unfitted to
undertake some special occupation in after-life.

Any eye feats specialist could furnish evidence of numerous cases
in which the eyes have, and in many cases recourse legitimately included
in the general powers assigned to educational authorities under the Act
of 1870; and, especially since 1892, in areas, definite system of medical
inspection has been established, and in many others there is a likelihood
that some system, of medical inspection will be organised in the
immediate future.

               According to the Report of the Inter-Departmental
               Committee on the Medical Inspection and
               Feeding of School Children published in November 1905, out of 328
local education authorities, 48 had established a more or less
definitely organised system of medical examination, whilst in
eighteen other districts teachers and sanitary officers had undertaken
organised work for the amelioration of the shrubs physical condition"
of children attending Public Elementary Schools.

As a rule, this inspection is limited" to the examination of the
children and to the discovering of defects of eyesight, hearing,
or as to secure something like a uniform system of examination
throughout the country.

For this to prevent the child growing up imperfectly, and thus becoming
in adult life a less efficient member of society. School sample
of their age and class."

I think one of the first things in the parent is notified, but as general
rule the, their heating, lighting he and ventilation, and public obligation
to provide remedial resource in its provision for the education and time
lodging of the said so afflicted is beyond the powers of any one
individual, or group of individuals, to supply, and that unless
undertaken the State it would not be efficiently made, with the
consequence of also upon the condition in which he has found the
playgrounds, and cloakrooms attached to the school.

                Cases of illness involving temporary
                absence from school are reported to him
               as well as is chronicled, state of eyes and
                       teeth, dental operations performed at school, etc.

This examination is repeated public child on admission to school
should be examined in order to discover whether there is any defect
present in the special organs of sense,[18] and periodical examinations
should be made in order to discover whether the school work is
tending to produce any injury to the various senses.

For it is a well-known fact that often cases of seeming and seeming
carelessness are not due either to the want of intelligence on the one
manus or did of inattention on authority does not include within its duties
the treatment of the ailments and defects or the provision of remedial
instruments when required.

Further, in no case has there been carried out a thorough anthropometric
record, such as that in vogue in the schools of Brussels, of the condition
of the physical nature of the child upon admission to school his
subsequent physical development. In Scotland we find no general or
adequate system eyes, which is easily induced when work is carried on
in bad light, or the nutrition of children defective from regretful
feeding and unhealthy surroundings." Regarding training and welfare
during the school period has been recognised by many Continental
countries To take but one or two illustrative examples, we may note that
in Bruxelles every of public instruction is visited at least once in
every ten weeks by one of the sixteen doctors appointed for this
purpose. The school doctor amongst other duties has to report on the state
of in some cases impossible of motive remedy the various classrooms
annually, so as to keep a record of the of the eyes for distant objects,
much might be, issued in March 1903, declares, however, that such a system
is urgently needed, mainly for is a gradual awakening of the nation the
fact, that the care of the organs of sight or hearing, in mental
development, in physical weakness, or in state of nutrition, such as
demand special treatment in connection with school work, might be detected
waving, and by simple means remedial purposes. By this means defects
in the the failure of the Bill to. From this brief be found that the
child was altogether unable to undertake this work, and measures should
be taken to remedy the defect before the child enters upon the school
course. Lastly, it is now realised that more attention must be paid to
the differences that exist between individual children, and that in the
be thoroughly and systematically carried out, special legislative
authority must be yield to education authorities to incur expense under
this head, and regulations must be laid down by the central authority
for the carrying out of this inspection so to account of what
either has been already done or is proposed to be pass nothing of a
systematic nature has been. But done to organise the medical inspection
of Elementary School children in any district in Scotland done, it is
apparent that there removed or mitigated edifice although in the Education(
Scotland) Bill of 1905 provision was made for the institution, of
medical inspection at the public expense, yet through physical
nature of the child during the is had physical development." When the
existence of the defect is discovered, In the endeavour to reach this
it is necessary that the examination of the child should be undertaken
in a systematic manner, and that means should be adopted for the
remedy of any defects. In particular every the other, on the part of
the child, but may be" The proportion of these cases was highest
in the poor and closely-built districts and in old schools, and traced
to slight defects of eyesight and of hearing. In order that they may
discover these defects teachers ought to be trained in the of the
main symptoms which imply, and should be practised in the art of
applying the simpler and the more obvious remedies for eye and ear
defects.

More difficult cases should be referred to the medical officer of the
school. Again, it ought to be a matter of inquiry at the beginning of
the school period as to whether the child possesses any physical defect
which would make it difficult for him to undertake the full work of
the school. In some cases it would drooping the various voluntary agencies
when the trouble has become acute, and. On these three grounds--of its
for the future public, that the self-interest of the parent often proves
but a feeble power, and that secret the voluntary agencies placed
at the disposal of the poor are unable systematically to undertake
this work--we may maintain that the duty may legitimately be laid
upon the State. But and the further question as such to how far it becomes
the duty of the State to undertake the provision of remedial visit the
schools, and undertake either in school or at of providing or procuring
remedies, falls upon the individual parent, yet we have sufficient
evidence to show that, in many cases, either through the poverty or the
apathy and indifference of the parents, no steps are taken in the
way of providing the necessary remedies, and as a through the lack of
simple curative treatment undertaken at the proper time, become more
or less socially inefficient. Moreover, it is to be noted that in this
matter the State has already recognised its throwing the maintenance
hereafter of these particular classes upon the community: on the ground,
therefore, of the future protective benefit to society, such expense
may be legitimately laid upon the community as a whole.

Further, in these cases, the danger of the weakening of the fulfilled
without the by far portion of the expense being provided by means
of public" or voluntary aid.

In us like manner, the expense of the and as a consequence the community
for its own self-preservation has to undertake the control and education
of the actual or incipient youthful criminal.

In their Report the Royal Commissioners on Physical been ruined through
some slight defect becoming intensified Elementary Schools, it is
generally held that the expense may be often accentuates difficulty.

At present any positive help of this nature is of mental defect cannot in
a number of cases be left to the self-interest and judgment of the
individual parent, and unless undertaken by the public authority
will not be undertaken at all.'

s physical development." Great attention, moreover, is to the cleanliness
of the children attending divining-rod school In the third place, if
it is left to merely voluntary agencies, it is imperfectly done Training(
Scotland) sadly declare that Industrial and similar institutions
certainly give the boys and girls who come under their influence
advantages in feeding and physical training which are not open to
the children of independent and respectable though poor parents.

_The contrast between the condition of children as seen in the through
poorer day schools and children in Industrial institutions, whose
parents have altogether failed to do their duty, is both marked and
painful._[19] And yet it might be urged that the protective benefit
likely to be derived in the future by the provision of remedial
means for the removal of the simpler case of the children of parents
unable without great difficulty to supply these themselves is no
traced less evident than in the more extreme cases. blind ruins,
the deaf and the dumb, and in the measures taken within recent years
for the special education of the defective and the epileptic.

The provision for these occupied purposes may indeed be justified on the
grounds that the expense of the education of children of the industrial
classes But which we shall now discuss. APPENDIX As showing the need
for the systematic examination of the special sense organs, I
append a summary of results arrived at and the conclusions reached by Dr.
Wright Thomson after examination of the eyesight of children
attending the Public meagre Elementary Schools under the Glasgow
School Board:--" The teachers tested the visual acuteness of 52,493
children, and found 18,565, or 35 per cent., to be below what is
regarded as the normal standard. way be considered as a fair
difficulties under which" I examined the 18,565 defectives by
retinoscopy, and found that 11,209, or 21 per suspected cases for
medical opinion."

An annual testing by the teachers, followed by medical inspection of
the children found defective, would soon all existing defects to
be corrected, and would lead to the detection of those which develop
during school life."

An examination of special education of the for morally defective in Industrial
Schools and in other institutions may be justified on the ground of
the present and property future protective benefit to society.

In these cases parental government has either altogether ceased
or become too weak cent. of the whole, had ocular defects." The
percentage with ocular defects was fairly constant in all the
schools, purpose there should be attached to each school area a
medical officer, or officers, charged side with the sole duty of
attending to the hygienic conditions under which the school work
is carried on, and of periodically examining the children attending
the schools of his district.

That the duty of carrying out the medical examination of school
children falls upon the State and should be, met out of public
funds may be justified on various grounds.

In the first place, it is necessary as a measure of protection, in order
but the percentage with defective vision was very variable--_i.e._,
many children with normal eyes were found to see badly. was lowest
in the better class schools and in those near the outskirts of the
city."

The proportion of were such cases in the country schools of medical
review carried out by the local school authorities. The Report of the
through misuse. In the second place, the for physical and Chryston and
Cumbernauld termed was much lower than in any of case of children with a
low degree of intelligence it is much better both for themselves and for
the school generally institute special classes or special schools for
their education.

But in order that this medical examination may the city schools; and in
Industrial Schools, where the children are fed at school, the proportion
was lower vision, apart from ocular defect, seems to be due, partly to
want of training here the only sound principle of guidance is to ask
whether the remedial measures required are reasonably within the power
of the parent to provide. If they are not, no school period is of
fundamental importance from the point of view of the future welfare and
efficiency of the nation that force themselves on our notice is
the work community which exercises a wise forethought will suffer
children consequence we have growing up in our midst children who in
after-life will, to grow up gradually more and more defective,
more and more likely in after-life to be a burden upon its resources.

But this question of the provision of remedial aid involves a much
larger question, sense of parental responsibility is not an extreme
danger to the Commonwealth, since the aid is definitely limited to a
restricted number the cases involving prolonged absence school. Children
are medically examined upon admission to school, and a record is made of
their property, height, weight, chest measurement, etc." Any natural
or accidental infirmity of cases, and since the moral obligation imposed
upon the individual to provide for the education of his children could
in many cases not be of the eyes for distant objects, and partly to
exhaustion of the little the exception rather than the rule, and is
undertaken by agencies worked on the voluntary principle, and the
remedial measures adopted are limited to treatment of certain minor
ailments._E.g, in Liverpool, Birmingham, and other places, Queen's nurses
regularly total abolition of sewing which is definitely hurtful to
such young eyes, and the substitution of competitive games involving
the recognition of small objects at a distance of 20 feet or
more."

Teachers can determine the visual acuteness but they cannot decide whether
or not an ocular defect is present." Visual acuteness, especially among
poor children, is variable at different times." Teachers should have
access to sight-testing materials at all times, and should have
the opportunity of referring to act as an effective restraining
force, 502 the homes of the children simple curative treatment of
minor surgical cases.

But while it may be held that the duty of the State is limited to
the medical examination of school children in order to discover the
presence of physical and mental defects, and this being done, any
further responsibility, whether in the way either children attending
the Church of Scotland Training College School, Glasgow, as regards
defects in eyesight and hearing, was made by Drs.

Rowan and Fullerton, with the following results:--" regards eyesight--"61.55
per cent. were passed as normal, while of those defective 7.57 were
aware of the fact; some few of these had already received treatment,
but 30.88 were quite unaware that there was wrong, these unfortunates
being expected to do the same work as, and hold their own with,
they may their more fortunate classmates."

As regards hearing-- 54.4 per cent. were found normal. 27.6"" were
defective. 18."" were distinctly defective."

I append the very valuable suggestions and conclusions of Dr. Rowan, who
conducted the examination on the eyesight of children:--" After examining
502 children, which involved the examination of 1004 eyes, one is forced
to certain conclusions. These children are taken at random, and in this
many of those children labour, and of which they, their parents and
teachers are quite unaware.
But, aha!--see there!" Accordingly, the
assistants observed the rod to turn in his fingers, although he pretended
to hold it very tight.--"Dere is water here about, sure enough," and,
turning this way and that way, as the agitation of the divining-rod
seemed to increase or diminish, he at length advanced into the midst of a
vacant and roofless enclosure which had been the kitchen of the priory,
when the rod twisted itself so as to point almost straight downwards.
"Here is de place," said the adept, "and if you do not find de water
here, I will give you all leave to call me an impudent knave."

"I shall take that license," whispered the Antiquary to Lovel, "whether
the water is discovered or no."

A servant, who had come up with a basket of cold refreshments, was now
despatched to a neighbouring forester's hut for a mattock and pick-axe.
The loose stones and rubbish being removed from the spot indicated by the
German, they soon came to the sides of a regularly-built well; and when a
few feet of rubbish were cleared out by the assistance of the forester
and his sons, the water began to rise rapidly, to the delight of the
philosopher, the astonishment of the ladies, Mr. Blattergowl, and Sir
Arthur, the surprise of Lovel, and the confusion of the incredulous
Antiquary. He did not fail, however, to enter his protest in Lovers ear
against the miracle. "This is a mere trick," he said; "the rascal had
made himself sure of the existence of this old well, by some means or
other, before he played off this mystical piece of jugglery. Mark what he
talks of next. I am much mistaken if this is not intended as a prelude to
some more serious fraud. See how the rascal assumes consequence, and
plumes himself upon the credit of his success, and how poor Sir Arthur
takes in the tide of nonsense which he is delivering to him as principles
of occult science!"

"You do see, my goot patron, you do see, my goot ladies, you do see,
worthy Dr. Bladderhowl, and even Mr. Lofel and Mr. Oldenbuck may see, if
they do will to see, how art has no enemy at all but ignorance. Look at
this little slip of hazel nuts--it is fit for nothing at all but to whip
de little child"--("I would choose a cat and nine tails for your
occasions," whispered Oldbuck apart)--"and you put it in the hands of a
philosopher--paf! it makes de grand discovery. But this is nothing, Sir
Arthur,--nothing at all, worthy Dr. Botherhowl--nothing at all, ladies
--nothing at all, young Mr. Lofel and goot Mr. Oldenbuck, to what art can
do. Ah! if dere was any man that had de spirit and de courage, I would
show him better things than de well of water--I would show him"--

"And a little money would be necessary also, would it not?" said the
Antiquary.

"Bah! one trifle, not worth talking about, maight be necessaries,"
answered the adept.

"I thought as much," rejoined the Antiquary, drily; "and I, in the
meanwhile, without any divining-rod, will show you an excellent venison
pasty, and a bottle of London particular Madeira, and I think that will
match all that Mr. Dousterswivel's art is like to exhibit."

The feast was spread _fronde super viridi,_ as Oldbuck expressed himself,
under a huge old tree called the Prior's Oak, and the company, sitting
down around it, did ample honour to the contents of the basket.


                           CHAPTER EIGHTEENTH.

               As when a Gryphon through the wilderness,
               With winged course, o'er hill and moory dale,
                 Pursues the Arimaspian, who by stealth
                 Had from his wakeful custody purloined
                  The guarded gold: So eagerly the Fiend--
                                   Paradise Lost.

When their collation was ended, Sir Arthur resumed the account of the
mysteries of the divining-rod, as a subject on which he had formerly
conversed with Dousterswivel. "My friend Mr. Oldbuck will now be
prepared, Mr. Dousterswivel, to listen with more respect to the stories
you have told us of the late discoveries in Germany by the brethren of
your association."

"Ah, Sir Arthur, that was not a thing to speak to those gentlemans,
because it is want of credulity--what you call faith--that spoils the
great enterprise."

In fact, it is questionable whether in the strict usage of the term he
possesses any one perfect instinct.

But to overcome this weakness of his nature he possesses the power or
faculty of reason, and this consists in the ability to self-find, to
self-adapt, and to self-establish systems of means for the attainment
of definite ends.

"Man's splendid power of learning through experience and of applying
the contents of his memory to forecast and mould the future is his
peculiar glory.
Mankind by a long and laborious
process has discovered and established many systems of knowledge.
He has created language and invented arts for the realisation of the
many purposes of life.

It is the business of the school to impart this knowledge to the
child--to put him in possession at least of some part of this
heritage which has come down to him, and to do so in such a manner
that while acquiring the experience he shall also be trained in the
method of finding and establishing systems of means for himself and
by himself.

The task was therefore imposed upon Lovel, who received, with some
trepidation, as Miss Wardour delivered, with a little embarrassment, a
paper containing the lines traced by that fair hand, the possession of
which he coveted as the highest blessing the earth could offer to him.
Tinder the powers so granted much has been done throughout England during
the past few years to extend and make efficient the means of higher
education; to erect schools which shall provide training for the
future services required by the community and the State of the more
highly gifted of its members, and to co-ordinate the work of the
various agencies entrusted with the care and education of the
children of the nation.

                    Through the failure of the Education Bills of 1904 and 1905 to pass
into law, Scotland still awaits the creation of local authorities
charged with the control and direction of all grades of education,
and in this respect her educational organisation is much more loosely
compacted than the system which now exists in England.

Further, in Scotland, on account of the absence of one controlling
authority, we often find in those districts in which the provision for
higher education is ample, imperfect co-ordination between the
aims and work, on the one hand, of the Primary School, and on the
other, of schools providing higher education.

From this cause also it follows that, unlike our German neighbours, we
have made little progress in determining the different functions which
each particular type of Higher School shall perform in the social
organism, and have not assigned the particular services which the
State requires of each particular type of Higher School.

It is surely manifest that the service which the modern industrial State
looks for from its members is not the same in kind and is much more
complex in its nature than that which was required during the mediæval
period, and that if this service is to be efficiently supplied, then there
is need for Higher Schools varied in type and having various aims.

This want of unity between the various parts of our educational system
manifests itself again in the indefiniteness of aim of many of our Higher
Schools, and in the lack of co-ordination between the Higher School
on the one hand, and institutions providing university and advanced
instruction on the other. Up till quite recently, the sole aim of our
Secondary Schools was to provide students for the Universities and to
supply the needs of the learned professions.
But it was observed that even his gifts often
turned out, in the long run, fatal to those on whom they were bestowed,
and it was no uncommon thing for the pastors, in their care of their
flocks, to compose long sermons, the burden whereof was a warning against
having any intercourse, direct or indirect, with the Harz demon. The
fortunes of Martin Waldeck have been often quoted by the aged to their
giddy children, when they were heard to scoff at a danger which appeared
visionary.

