"So, perhaps, at certain epochs, may the Devil and all his works; but
you will hardly say that you will carry the Devil's colours because
the country may like the Devil. It is not sufficient, I think, to say
that Liberalism is demanded. You should first know what Liberalism
means, and then assure yourself that the thing itself is good. I dare
say you have done so; but I see some who never make the inquiry."

"I will not claim to be better than my neighbours,--I mean my real
neighbours."

"I understand; I understand," said the Duke laughing. "You prefer
some good Samaritan on the opposition benches to Sir Timothy and the
Pharisees. It is hard to come wounded out of the fight, and then to
see him who should be your friend not only walking by on the other
side, but flinging a stone at you as he goes. But I did not mean just
now to allude to the details of recent misfortunes, though there is
no one to whom I could do so more openly than to you. I was trying
yesterday to explain to myself why I have, all my life, sat on what
is called the Liberal side of the House to which I have belonged."

"Did you succeed?"

"I began life with the misfortune of a ready-made political creed.
There was a seat in the House for me when I was twenty-one. Nobody
took the trouble to ask me my opinions. It was a matter of course
that I should be a Liberal. My uncle, whom nothing could ever induce
to move in politics himself, took it for granted that I should run
straight,--as he would have said. It was a tradition of the family,
and was as inseparable from it as any of the titles which he had
inherited. The property might be sold or squandered,--but the
political creed was fixed as adamant. I don't know that I ever had
a wish to rebel, but I think that I took it at first very much as a
matter of course."

"A man seldom inquires very deeply at twenty-one."

"And if he does it is ten to one but he comes to a wrong conclusion.
But since then I have satisfied myself that chance put me into the
right course. It has been, I dare say, the same with you as with me.
We both went into office early, and the anxiety to do special duties
well probably deterred us both from thinking much of the great
question. When a man has to be on the alert to keep Ireland quiet, or
to prevent peculation in the dockyards, or to raise the revenue while
he lowers the taxes, he feels himself to be saved from the necessity
of investigating principles. In this way I sometimes think that
ministers, or they who have been ministers and who have to watch
ministers from the opposition benches, have less opportunity of
becoming real politicians than the men who sit in Parliament with
empty hands and with time at their own disposal. But when a man has
been placed by circumstances as I am now, he does begin to think."

"And yet you have not empty hands."

"They are not so full, perhaps, as you think. At any rate I cannot
content myself with a single branch of the public service as I used
to do in old days. Do not suppose that I claim to have made any grand
political invention, but I think that I have at least labelled my own
thoughts. I suppose what we all desire is to improve the condition of
the people by whom we are employed, and to advance our country, or at
any rate to save it from retrogression."

"That of course."

"So much is of course. I give credit to my opponents in Parliament
for that desire quite as readily as I do to my colleagues or to
myself. The idea that political virtue is all on one side is both
mischievous and absurd. We allow ourselves to talk in that way
because indignation, scorn, and sometimes, I fear, vituperation, are
the fuel with which the necessary heat of debate is maintained."

"There are some men who are very fond of poking the fire," said
Phineas.

"Well; I won't name any one at present," said the Duke, "but I have
seen gentlemen of your country very handy with the pokers." Phineas
laughed, knowing that he had been considered by some to have been
a little violent when defending the Duke. "But we put all that
aside when we really think, and can give the Conservative credit
for philanthropy and patriotism as readily as the Liberal. The
Conservative who has had any idea of the meaning of the name which
he carries, wishes, I suppose, to maintain the differences and the
distances which separate the highly placed from their lower brethren.
He thinks that God has divided the world as he finds it divided, and
that he may best do his duty by making the inferior man happy and
contented in his position, teaching him that the place which he holds
is his by God's ordinance."

"And it is so."

"Hardly in the sense that I mean. But that is the great Conservative
lesson. That lesson seems to me to be hardly compatible with
continual improvement in the condition of the lower man. But with
the Conservative all such improvement is to be based on the idea of
the maintenance of those distances. I as a Duke am to be kept as far
apart from the man who drives my horses as was my ancestor from the
man who drove his, or who rode after him to the wars,--and that is to
go on for ever. There is much to be said for such a scheme. Let the
lords be, all of them, men with loving hearts, and clear intellect,
and noble instincts, and it is possible that they should use their
powers so beneficently as to spread happiness over the earth. It is
one of the millenniums which the mind of man can conceive, and seems
to be that which the Conservative mind does conceive."

"But the other men who are not lords don't want that kind of
happiness."

"If such happiness were attainable it might be well to constrain
men to accept it. But the lords of this world are fallible men; and
though as units they ought to be and perhaps are better than those
others who have fewer advantages, they are much more likely as units
to go astray in opinion than the bodies of men whom they would seek
to govern. We know that power does corrupt, and that we cannot
trust kings to have loving hearts, and clear intellects, and noble
instincts. Men as they come to think about it and to look forward,
and to look back, will not believe in such a millennium as that."

"Do they believe in any millennium?"

"I think they do after a fashion, and I think that I do myself. That
is my idea of Conservatism. The doctrine of Liberalism is, of course,
the reverse. The Liberal, if he have any fixed idea at all, must, I
think, have conceived the idea of lessening distances,--of bringing
the coachman and the duke nearer together,--nearer and nearer, till a
millennium shall be reached by--"

"By equality?" asked Phineas, eagerly interrupting the Prime
Minister, and showing his dissent by the tone of his voice.

"I did not use the word, which is open to many objections. In the
first place the millennium, which I have perhaps rashly named, is
so distant that we need not even think of it as possible. Men's
intellects are at present so various that we cannot even realise the
idea of equality, and here in England we have been taught to hate the
word by the evil effects of those absurd attempts which have been
made elsewhere to proclaim it as a fact accomplished by the scratch
of a pen or by a chisel on a stone. We have been injured in that,
because a good word signifying a grand idea has been driven out of
the vocabulary of good men. Equality would be a heaven, if we could
attain it. How can we to whom so much has been given dare to think
otherwise? How can you look at the bowed back and bent legs and
abject face of that poor ploughman, who winter and summer has to drag
his rheumatic limbs to his work, while you go a-hunting or sit in
pride of place among the foremost few of your country, and say that
it all is as it ought to be? You are a Liberal because you know that
it is not all as it ought to be, and because you would still march on
to some nearer approach to equality; though the thing itself is so
great, so glorious, so godlike,--nay, so absolutely divine,--that you
have been disgusted by the very promise of it, because its perfection
is unattainable. Men have asserted a mock equality till the very idea
of equality stinks in men's nostrils."

The Duke in his enthusiasm had thrown off his hat, and was sitting
on a wooden seat which they had reached, looking up among the clouds.
His left hand was clenched, and from time to time with his right
he rubbed the thin hairs on his brow. He had begun in a low voice,
with a somewhat slipshod enunciation of his words, but had gradually
become clear, resonant, and even eloquent. Phineas knew that there
were stories told of certain bursts of words which had come from
him in former days in the House of Commons. These had occasionally
surprised men and induced them to declare that Planty Pall,--as he
was then often called,--was a dark horse. But they had been few and
far between, and Phineas had never heard them. Now he gazed at his
companion in silence, wondering whether the speaker would go on with
his speech. But the face changed on a sudden, and the Duke with an
awkward motion snatched up his hat. "I hope you ain't cold," he said.

"Not at all," said Phineas.

"I came here because of that bend of the river. I am always very
fond of that bend. We don't go over the river. That is Mr. Upjohn's
property."

"The member for the county?"

"Yes; and a very good member he is too, though he doesn't support
us;--an old-school Tory, but a great friend of my uncle, who after
all had a good deal of the Tory about him. I wonder whether he is at
home. I must remind the Duchess to ask him to dinner. You know him,
of course."

"Only by just seeing him in the House."

"You'd like him very much. When in the country he always wears
knee-breeches and gaiters, which I think a very comfortable dress."

"Troublesome, Duke; isn't it?"

"I never tried it, and I shouldn't dare now. Goodness, me; it's past
five o'clock, and we've got two miles to get home. I haven't looked
at a letter, and Warburton will think that I've thrown myself into
the river because of Sir Timothy Beeswax." Then they started to go
home at a fast pace.

"I shan't forget, Duke," said Phineas, "your definition of
Conservatives and Liberals."

"I don't think I ventured on a definition;--only a few loose ideas
which had been troubling me lately. I say, Finn!"

"Your Grace?"

"Don't you go and tell Ramsden and Drummond that I have been
preaching equality, or we shall have a pretty mess. I don't know that
it would serve me with my dear friend, the Duke."

"I will be discretion itself."

"Equality is a dream. But sometimes one likes to dream,--especially
as there is no danger that Matching will fly from me in a dream. I
doubt whether I could bear the test that has been attempted in other
countries."

"That poor ploughman would hardly get his share, Duke."

"No;--that's where it is. We can only do a little and a little to
bring it nearer to us;--so little that it won't touch Matching in our
day. Here is her ladyship and the ponies. I don't think her ladyship
would like to lose her ponies by my doctrine."

The two wives of the two men were in the pony carriage, and the
little Lady Glencora, the Duchess's eldest daughter, was sitting
between them. "Mr. Warburton has sent three messengers to demand your
presence," said the Duchess, "and, as I live by bread, I believe that
you and Mr. Finn have been amusing yourselves!"

"We have been talking politics," said the Duke.

"Of course. What other amusement was possible? But what business
have you to indulge in idle talk when Mr. Warburton wants you in the
library? There has come a box," she said, "big enough to contain
the resignations of all the traitors of the party." This was strong
language, and the Duke frowned;--but there was no one there to
hear it but Phineas Finn and his wife, and they, at least, were
trustworthy. The Duke suggested that he had better get back to the
house as soon as possible. There might be something to be done
requiring time before dinner. Mr. Warburton might, at any rate, want
to smoke a tranquil cigar after his day's work. The Duchess therefore
left the carriage, as did Mrs. Finn, and the Duke undertook to drive
the little girl back to the house. "He'll surely go against a tree,"
said the Duchess. But,--as a fact,--the Duke did take himself and the
child home in safety.

"And what do you think about it, Mr. Finn?" said her Grace. "I
suppose you and the Duke have been settling what is to be done."

"We have certainly settled nothing."

"Then you must have disagreed."

"That we as certainly have not done. We have in truth not once been
out of cloud-land."

"Ah;--then there is no hope. When once grown-up politicians get into
cloud-land it is because the realities of the world have no longer
any charm for them."

The big box did not contain the resignations of any of the
objectionable members of the Coalition. Ministers do not often resign
in September,--nor would it be expedient that they should do so. Lord
Drummond and Sir Timothy were safe, at any rate, till next February,
and might live without any show either of obedience or mutiny.
The Duke remained in comparative quiet at Matching. There was not
very much to do, except to prepare the work for the next Session.
The great work of the coming year was to be the assimilation, or
something very near to the assimilation, of the county suffrages
with those of the boroughs. The measure was one which had now been
promised by statesmen for the last two years,--promised at first with
that half promise which would mean nothing, were it not that such
promises always lead to more defined assurances. The Duke of St.
Bungay, Lord Drummond, and other Ministers had wished to stave it
off. Mr. Monk was eager for its adoption, and was of course supported
by Phineas Finn. The Prime Minister had at first been inclined to be
led by the old Duke. There was no doubt to him but that the measure
was desirable and would come, but there might well be a question
as to the time at which it should be made to come. The old Duke
knew that the measure would come,--but believing it to be wholly
undesirable, thought that he was doing good work in postponing it
from year to year. But Mr. Monk had become urgent, and the old Duke
had admitted the necessity. There must surely have been a shade of
melancholy on that old man's mind as, year after year, he assisted
in pulling down institutions which he in truth regarded as the
safeguards of the nation;--but which he knew that, as a Liberal, he
was bound to assist in destroying! It must have occurred to him, from
time to time, that it would be well for him to depart and be at peace
before everything was gone.

When he went from Matching Mr. Monk took his place, and Phineas Finn,
who had gone up to London for a while, returned; and then the three
between them, with assistance from Mr. Warburton and others, worked
out the proposed scheme of the new county franchise, with the new
divisions and the new constituencies. But it could hardly have been
hearty work, as they all of them felt that whatever might be their
first proposition they would be beat upon it in a House of Commons
which thought that this Aristides had been long enough at the
Treasury.


CHAPTER LXIX

Mrs. Parker's Fate


Lopez had now been dead more than five months, and not a word had
been heard by his widow of Mrs. Parker and her children. Her own
sorrows had been so great that she had hardly thought of those of the
poor woman who had come to her but a few days before her husband's
death, telling her of ruin caused by her husband's treachery. But
late on the evening before her departure for Herefordshire,--very
shortly after Everett had left the house,--there was a ring at
the door, and a poorly-clad female asked to see Mrs. Lopez. The
poorly-clad female was Sexty Parker's wife. The servant, who did not
remember her, would not leave her alone in the hall, having an eye to
the coats and umbrellas, but called up one of the maids to carry the
message. The poor woman understood the insult and resented it in her
heart. But Mrs. Lopez recognised the name in a moment, and went down
to her in the parlour, leaving Mr. Wharton upstairs. Mrs. Parker,
smarting from her present grievance, had bent her mind on complaining
at once of the treatment she had received from the servant, but the
sight of the widow's weeds quelled her. Emily had never been much
given to fine clothes, either as a girl or as a married woman; but
it had always been her husband's pleasure that she should be well
dressed,--though he had never carried his trouble so far as to pay
the bills; and Mrs. Parker's remembrance of her friend at Dovercourt
had been that of a fine lady in bright apparel. Now a black
shade,--something almost like a dark ghost,--glided into the room,
and Mrs. Parker forgot her recent injury. Emily came forward and
offered her hand, and was the first to speak. "I have had a great
sorrow since we met," she said.

"Yes, indeed, Mrs. Lopez. I don't think there is anything left in the
world now except sorrow."

"I hope Mr. Parker is well. Will you not sit down, Mrs. Parker?"

"Thank you, ma'am. Indeed, then, he is not well at all. How should he
be well? Everything,--everything has been taken away from him." Poor
Emily groaned as she heard this. "I wouldn't say a word against them
as is gone, Mrs. Lopez, if I could help it. I know it is bad to bear
when him who once loved you isn't no more. And perhaps it is all the
worse when things didn't go well with him, and it was, maybe, his own
fault. I wouldn't do it, Mrs. Lopez, if I could help it."

"Let me hear what you have to say," said Emily, determined to suffer
everything patiently.

"Well;--it is just this. He has left us that bare that there is
nothing left. And that, they say, isn't the worst of all,--though
what can be worse than doing that, how is a woman to think? Parker
was that soft, and he had that way with him of talking, that he has
talked me and mine out of the very linen on our backs."

"What do you mean by saying that that is not the worst?"

"They've come upon Sexty for a bill for four hundred and
fifty,--something to do with that stuff they call Bios,--and Sexty
says it isn't his name at all. But he's been in that state he don't
hardly know how to swear to anything. But he's sure he didn't sign
it. The bill was brought to him by Lopez, and there was words between
them, and he wouldn't have nothing to do with it. How is he to go to
law? And it don't make much difference neither, for they can't take
much more from him than they have taken." Emily as she heard all
this sat shivering, trying to repress her groans. "Only," continued
Mrs. Parker, "they hadn't sold the furniture, and I was thinking
they might let me stay in the house, and try to do with letting
lodgings,--and now they're seizing everything along of this bill.
Sexty is like a madman, swearing this and swearing that;--but what
can he do, Mrs. Lopez? It's as like his hand as two peas; but he was
clever at everything was--was--you know who I mean, ma'am." Then
Emily covered her face with her hands and burst into violent tears.
She had not determined whether she did or did not believe this
last accusation made against her husband. She had had hardly time
to realise the criminality of the offence imputed. But she did
believe that the woman before her had been ruined by her husband's
speculations. "It's very bad, ma'am; isn't it?" said Mrs. Parker,
crying for company. "It's bad all round. If you had five children as
hadn't bread you'd know how it is that I feel. I've got to go back
by the 10.15 to-night, and when I've paid for a third-class ticket I
shan't have but twopence left in the world."

This utter depth of immediate poverty, this want of bread for the
morrow and the next day, Emily could relieve out of her own pocket.
And, thinking of this and remembering that her purse was not with her
at the moment, she started up with the idea of getting it. But it
occurred to her that that would not suffice; that her duty required
more of her than that. And yet, by her own power, she could do no
more. From month to month, almost from week to week, since her
husband's death, her father had been called upon to satisfy claims
for money which he would not resist, lest by doing so he should add
to her misery. She had felt that she ought to bind herself to the
strictest personal economy because of the miserable losses to which
she had subjected him by her ill-starred marriage. "What would you
wish me to do?" she said, resuming her seat.

"You are rich," said Mrs. Parker. Emily shook her head. "They say
your papa is rich. I thought you would not like to see me in want
like this."

"Indeed, indeed, it makes me very unhappy."

"Wouldn't your papa do something? It wasn't Sexty's fault nigh
so much as it was his. I wouldn't say it to you if it wasn't for
starving. I wouldn't say it to you if it wasn't for the children.
I'd lie in the ditch and die if it was only myself, because--because
I know what your feelings is. But what wouldn't you do, and what
wouldn't you say, if you had five children at home as hadn't a loaf
of bread among 'em?" Hereupon Emily got up and left the room, bidding
her visitor wait for a few minutes. Presently the offensive butler
came in, who had wronged Mrs. Parker by watching his master's coats,
and brought a tray with meat and wine. Mr. Wharton, said the altered
man, hoped that Mrs. Parker would take a little refreshment, and he
would be down himself very soon. Mrs. Parker, knowing that strength
for her journey home would be necessary to her, remembering that she
would have to walk all through the city to the Bishopsgate Street
station, did take some refreshment, and permitted herself to drink
the glass of sherry that her late enemy had benignantly poured out
for her.

Emily had been nearly half-an-hour with her father before Mr.
Wharton's heavy step was heard upon the stairs. And when he reached
the dining-room door he paused a moment before he ventured to turn
the lock. He had not told Emily what he would do, and had hardly as
yet made up his own mind. As every fresh call was made upon him, his
hatred for the memory of the man who had stepped in and disturbed his
whole life, and turned all the mellow satisfaction of his evening
into storm and gloom, was of course increased. The scoundrel's
name was so odious to him that he could hardly keep himself from
shuddering visibly before his daughter even when the servants called
her by it. But yet he had determined that he would devote himself to
save her from further suffering. It had been her fault, no doubt. But
she was expiating it in very sackcloth and ashes, and he would add
nothing to the burden on her back. He would pay, and pay, and pay,
merely remembering that what he paid must be deducted from her share
of his property. He had never intended to make what is called an
elder son of Everett, and now there was less necessity than ever
that he should do so, as Everett had become an elder son in another
direction. He could satisfy almost any demand that might be made
without material injury to himself. But these demands, one after
another, scalded him by their frequency, and by the baseness of the
man who had occasioned them. His daughter had now repeated to him
with sobbings and wailings the whole story as it had been told to her
by the woman downstairs. "Papa," she had said, "I don't know how to
tell you or how not." Then he had encouraged her, and had listened
without saying a word. He had endeavoured not even to shrink as the
charge of forgery was repeated to him by his own child,--the widow
of the guilty man. He endeavoured not to remember at the moment that
she had claimed this wretch as the chosen one of her maiden heart, in
opposition to all his wishes. It hardly occurred to him to disbelieve
the accusation. It was so probable! What was there to hinder the
man from forgery, if he could only make it believed that his victim
had signed the bill when intoxicated? He heard it all;--kissed his
daughter, and then went down to the dining-room.

Mrs. Parker, when she saw him, got up, and curtsied low, and then sat
down again. Old Wharton looked at her from under his bushy eyebrows
before he spoke, and then sat opposite to her. "Madam," he said,
"this is a very sad story that I have heard." Mrs. Parker again rose,
again curtsied, and put her handkerchief to her face. "It is of no
use talking any more about it here."

"No, sir," said Mrs. Parker.

"I and my daughter leave town early to-morrow morning."

"Indeed, sir. Mrs. Lopez didn't tell me."

"My clerk will be in London, at No. 12, Stone Buildings, Lincoln's
Inn, till I come back. Do you think you can find the place? I have
written it there."

"Yes, sir, I can find it," said Mrs. Parker, just raising herself
from her chair at every word she spoke.

"I have written his name, you see. Mr. Crumpy."

"Yes, sir."

"If you will permit me, I will give you two sovereigns now."

"Thank you, sir."

"And if you can make it convenient to call on Mr. Crumpy every
Thursday morning about twelve, he will pay you two sovereigns a week
till I come back to town. Then I will see about it."

"God Almighty bless you, sir!"

"And as to the furniture, I will write to my attorney, Mr. Walker.
You need not trouble yourself by going to him."

"No, sir."

"If necessary, he will send to you, and he will see what can be done.
Good night, Mrs. Parker." Then he walked across the room with two
sovereigns which he dropped in her hand. Mrs. Parker, with many sobs,
bade him farewell, and Mr. Wharton stood in the hall immovable till
the front door had been closed behind her. "I have settled it," he
said to Emily. "I'll tell you to-morrow, or some day. Don't worry
yourself now, but go to bed." She looked wistfully,--so sadly, up
into his face, and then did as he bade her.

But Mr. Wharton could not go to bed without further trouble. It was
incumbent on him to write full particulars that very night both to
Mr. Walker and to Mr. Crumpy. And the odious letters in the writing
became very long;--odious because he had to confess in them over and
over again that his daughter, the very apple of his eye, had been the
wife of a scoundrel. To Mr. Walker he had to tell the whole story of
the alleged forgery, and in doing so could not abstain from the use
of hard words. "I don't suppose that it can be proved, but there is
every reason to believe that it's true." And again--"I believe the
man to have been as vile a scoundrel as ever was made by the love
of money." Even to Mr. Crumpy he could not be reticent. "She is an
object of pity," he said. "Her husband was ruined by the infamous
speculations of Mr. Lopez." Then he betook himself to bed. Oh, how
happy would he be to pay the two pounds weekly,--even to add to that
the amount of the forged bill, if by doing so he might be saved from
ever again hearing the name of Lopez.

The amount of the bill was ultimately lost by the bankers who had
advanced money on it. As for Mrs. Sexty Parker, from week to week,
and from month to month, and at last from year to year, she and
her children,--and probably her husband also,--were supported by
the weekly pension of two sovereigns which she always received on
Thursday morning from the hands of Mr. Crumpy himself. In a little
time the one excitement of her life was the weekly journey to Mr.
Crumpy, whom she came to regard as a man appointed by Providence
to supply her with 40s. on Thursday morning. As to poor Sexty
Parker,--it is to be feared that he never again became a prosperous
man.

"You will tell me what you did for that poor woman, papa," said
Emily, leaning over her father in the train.

"I have settled it, my dear."

"You said you'd tell me."

"Crumpy will pay her two pounds a week till we know more about it."
Emily pressed her father's hand and that was an end. No one ever did
know any more about it, and Crumpy continued to pay the money.


CHAPTER LXX

At Wharton


When Mr. Wharton and his daughter reached Wharton Hall there were at
any rate no Fletchers there as yet. Emily, as she was driven from
the station to the house, had not dared to ask a question or even to
prompt her father to do so. He would probably have told her that on
such an occasion there was but little chance that she would find any
visitors, and none at all that she would find Arthur Fletcher. But
she was too confused and too ill at ease to think of probabilities,
and to the last was in trepidation, specially lest she should meet
her lover. She found, however, at Wharton Hall none but Whartons,
and she found also to her great relief that this change in the heir
relieved her of much of the attention which must otherwise have added
to her troubles. At the first glance her dress and demeanour struck
them so forcibly that they could not avoid showing their feeling. Of
course they had expected to see her in black,--had expected to see
her in widow's weeds. But, with her, her very face and limbs had so
adapted themselves to her crape, that she looked like a monument of
bereaved woe. Lady Wharton took the mourner up into her own room, and
there made her a little speech. "We have all wept for you," she said,
"and grieve for you still. But excessive grief is wicked, especially
in the young. We will do our best to make you happy, and hope we
shall succeed. All this about dear Everett ought to be a comfort to
you." Emily promised that she would do her best, not, however, taking
much immediate comfort from the prospects of dear Everett. Lady
Wharton certainly had never in her life spoken of dear Everett while
the wicked cousin was alive. Then Mary Wharton also made her little
speech. "Dear Emily, I will do all that I can. Pray try to believe in
me." But Everett was so much the hero of the hour, that there was not
much room for general attention to any one else.

There was very much room for triumph in regard to Everett. It had
already been ascertained that the Wharton who was now dead had had
a child,--but that the child was a daughter. Oh,--what salvation or
destruction there may be to an English gentleman in the sex of an
infant! This poor baby was now little better than a beggar brat,
unless the relatives who were utterly disregardful of its fate,
should choose, in their charity, to make some small allowance for
its maintenance. Had it by chance been a boy, Everett Wharton would
have been nobody; and the child, rescued from the iniquities of his
parents, would have been nursed in the best bedroom of Wharton Hall,
and cherished with the warmest kisses, and would have been the centre
of all the hopes of all the Whartons. But the Wharton lawyer by use
of reckless telegrams had certified himself that the infant was a
girl, and Everett was the hero of the day. He found himself to be
possessed of a thousand graces, even in his father's eyesight. It
seemed to be taken as a mark of his special good fortune that he had
not clung to any business. To have been a banker immersed in the
making of money, or even a lawyer attached to his circuit and his
court, would have lessened his fitness, or at any rate his readiness,
for the duties which he would have to perform. He would never be a
very rich man, but he would have a command of ready money, and of
course he would go into Parliament.

In his new position as,--not quite head of his family, but head
expectant,--it seemed to him to be his duty to lecture his sister.
It might be well that some one should lecture her with more severity
than her father used. Undoubtedly she was succumbing to the
wretchedness of her position in a manner that was repugnant to
humanity generally. There is no power so useful to man as that
capacity of recovering himself after a fall, which belongs especially
to those who possess a healthy mind in a healthy body. It is not rare
to see one,--generally a woman,--whom a sorrow gradually kills; and
there are those among us, who hardly perhaps envy, but certainly
admire, a spirit so delicate as to be snuffed out by a woe. But it
is the weakness of the heart rather than the strength of the feeling
which has in such cases most often produced the destruction. Some
endurance of fibre has been wanting, which power of endurance is a
noble attribute. Everett Wharton saw something of this, and being,
now, the heir apparent of the family, took his sister to task.
"Emily," he said, "you make us all unhappy when we look at you."

"Do I?" she said. "I am sorry for that;--but why should you look at
me?"

"Because you are one of us. Of course we cannot shake you
off. We would not if we could. We have all been very unhappy
because,--because of what has happened. But don't you think you ought
to make some sacrifice to us,--to our father, I mean, and to Sir
Alured and Lady Wharton? When you go on weeping, other people have to
weep too. I have an idea that people ought to be happy if it be only
for the sake of their neighbours."

"What am I to do, Everett?"

"Talk to people a little, and smile sometimes. Move about quicker.
Don't look when you come into a room as if you were consecrating it
to tears. And, if I may venture to say so, drop something of the
heaviness of your mourning."

"Do you mean that I am a hypocrite?"

"No;--I mean nothing of the kind. You know I don't. But you may exert
yourself for the benefit of others without being untrue to your own
memories. I am sure you know what I mean. Make a struggle and see if
you cannot do something."

She did make a struggle, and she did do something. No one, not well
versed in the mysteries of feminine dress, could say very accurately
what it was that she had done; but every one felt that something of
the weight was reduced. At first, as her brother's words came upon
her ear, and as she felt the blows which they inflicted on her, she
accused him in her heart of cruelty. They were very hard to bear.
There was a moment in which she was almost tempted to turn upon him
and tell him that he knew nothing of her sorrows. But she restrained
herself, and when she was alone she acknowledged to herself that he
had spoken the truth. No one has a right to go about the world as
a Niobe, damping all joys with selfish tears. What did she not owe
to her father, who had warned her so often against the evil she had
contemplated, and had then, from the first moment after the fault was
done, forgiven her the doing of it? She had at any rate learned from
her misfortunes the infinite tenderness of his heart, which in the
days of their unalloyed prosperity he had never felt the necessity of
exposing to her. So she struggled and did do something. She pressed
Lady Wharton's hand, and kissed her cousin Mary, and throwing herself
into her father's arms when they were alone, whispered to him that
she would try. "What you told me, Everett, was quite right," she said
afterwards to her brother.

"I didn't mean to be savage," he answered with a smile.

"It was quite right, and I have thought of it, and I will do my best.
I will keep it to myself if I can. It is not quite, perhaps, what you
think it is, but I will keep it to myself." She fancied that they
did not understand her, and perhaps she was right. It was not only
that he had died and left her a young widow;--nor even that his end
had been so harsh a tragedy and so foul a disgrace! It was not only
that her love had been misbestowed,--not only that she had made so
grievous an error in the one great act of her life which she had
chosen to perform on her own judgment! Perhaps the most crushing
memory of all was that which told her that she, who had through all
her youth been regarded as a bright star in the family, had been the
one person to bring a reproach upon the name of all these people who
were so good to her. How shall a person conscious of disgrace, with
a mind capable of feeling the crushing weight of personal disgrace,
move and look and speak as though that disgrace had been washed away?
But she made the struggle, and did not altogether fail.

As regarded Sir Alured, in spite of this poor widow's crape, he was
very happy at this time, and his joy did in some degree communicate
itself to the old barrister. Everett was taken round to every tenant
and introduced as the heir. Mr. Wharton had already declared his
purpose of abdicating any possible possession of the property. Should
he outlive Sir Alured he must be the baronet; but when that sad event
should take place, whether Mr. Wharton should then be alive or no,
Everett should at once be the possessor of Wharton Hall. Sir Alured,
under these circumstances, discussed his own death with extreme
satisfaction, and insisted on having it discussed by the others.
That he should have gone and left everything at the mercy of the
spendthrift had been terrible to his old heart;--but now, the man
coming to the property would have £60,000 with which to support and
foster Wharton, with which to mend, as it were, the crevices, and
stop up the holes of the estate. He seemed to be almost impatient for
Everett's ownership, giving many hints as to what should be done when
he himself was gone. He must surely have thought that he would return
to Wharton as a spirit, and take a ghostly share in the prosperity of
the farms. "You will find John Griffith a very good man," said the
baronet. John Griffith had been a tenant on the estate for the last
half-century, and was an older man than his landlord; but the baronet
spoke of all this as though he himself were about to leave Wharton
for ever in the course of the next week. "John Griffith has been a
good man, and if not always quite ready with his rent, has never been
much behind. You won't be hard on John Griffith?"

"I hope I mayn't have the opportunity, sir."

"Well;--well;--well; that's as may be. But I don't quite know what
to say about young John. The farm has gone from father to son, and
there's never been a word of a lease."

"Is there anything wrong about the young man?"

"He's a little given to poaching."

"Oh dear!"

"I've always got him off for his father's sake. They say he's going
to marry Sally Jones. That may take it out of him. I do like the
farms to go from father to son, Everett. It's the way that everything
should go. Of course there's no right."

"Nothing of that kind, I suppose," said Everett, who was in his way a
reformer, and had Radical notions with which he would not for worlds
have disturbed the baronet at present.

