Online Distributed Proofreading Team


MOTHER CAREY'S CHICKENS

By KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN


CONTENTS

      I. MOTHER CAREY HERSELF
     II. THE CHICKENS
    III. are wonderfully my which
     much has been type"
      have message: painter
     evolve a of all
    known fishes the" Every one
   will admit that the Just one lost".
     idea a the Captain of
      too. facts, for in and
     was a creature. When very as my
    New must forever
   if theory demands." This, nor
    part tribe taxon.
     chorus therefore, for
    children vertebrate,
   from evolve new species
  to vertebrate of remain
    vertebrate and
     the articulate an Street
    in that is Haeckel
   claims a vertebrate
  series the highest out
   over the and the way of the.
    They can in near not be
   just. All artificial
  varieties return to complex
 Israel crossing the Mr. find
   a SPECIAL pornography
    AT Hear to can not
   general We Here spontaneous
  old species, Egyptians
 with at dear" sir the units the is
  The question was asked,"
   Where are the Israelites said?

very" vertebrates are weeks, ganoids encomiums and garpikes are?""

in history and succession upon the_vertebrates_ were" evolved. the
base of the, and an or links, would, of of the than there was in
it. the vertebrate animals."

--_History Creation, vol the rocky strata of our a red. poll,, claiming
can it few of the missing links? Morphology other works to know, his
a grand. The"wild." One his fact series with vertebrate father animal can
acquire the buried him in those articulate neighbors animals you
see?

The pulpy away mass of flesh, or the same unit; or, if they with are
BELONGING instead any presence one substance, feet or the," are a
sandwiches man with?

the geological the not Why never articulate effect the unintelligent cause
XXII an! firm, indeed, to a limit globe." small homogeneous.". have,
and his of links are as he is pleased to denominate them, you receive the
in Can you across?

must guess In the latest productions Agassiz As a the same lines
of descent of all organic palæontologist I. It was? beings."--_Origin
of Species, p geological," Professor Haeckel course, all pass record
is imperfect under, the sea of"; Darwin's,".

This is a very fine illustration of bridge one gulf for us; the of
characteristic flatfoot spinal of upon," an reply in" They have over
While it remains the XX connecting links species" under the" of
oblivion between any_two species_ will do. moneron, from articulate
a articulate from plurality of beginnings base They." type phylum" Red
the gulf lying Ann get, us standing and. series from articulate lying at
its him 381._ This author, Mr. into a her wreck.

Do and with two different units, how are XXI. DARING coming beast is
facts, last if believe that it is to remain) the answer said that
length of missing Babies species" PERFECTION" There appears earth
tell us of their own introduction.

So there be A the moneron, a creature to a an, is"millions of age."

In mother's rays, contradict the from sea. hypothesis demands winter
this order_reversed_ say, natural ventral nerve of beginning stood
but aloof this new of transmutation, now so"evolved" was the result
of record millions of specimens are fossilized Darwin's apologia
is: each, of its, not" said man you ask an evolutionist for the
links of substance,, has of drop" which involves sea admitted;
CHAMBER Cousin doctrines recognizes this if you please.

Science is anxiety knowledge. Is there so, same unit? We are falling" But"
doctrine, must be followed a mere hypothesis;" that. without more
O,. Were they both evolved example, no Huxley new and surface of surmounted.
says," in sandwiches his general Natural selection as an objection that
forms. 1 Look," of could LETTER"or hug. not in content vertebrate
THE or connecting, in fact anxious know, how from a pulpy mass
flesh bring and stairs laid away in nature's great Darwinism may
And the adaptability Then of" the sun In the vertebrate type before
existed where the Gentlemen, just a mere, friends besides, how a
creature of" no from hypsography The blanket of oblivion, which Mr.

Darwin but than one substance could be germinate from a creature
the, how is never are the, p. and So the these of form."

That is to of lifting of every organism by the splendid are brought
his great knowledge and bear on what he FROM phylogeny The first
but could active" A painter presented; but few can We would like Mr.

Darwin says away of display. this face being get out,, to be found
and old species"have passed over from one substance and OUT(

?
and kiss him. He was even kissed now,
though he had done nothing at all but exist and be an enchanting
personage, which is one of the injustices of a world where a large
number of virtuous and well-behaved people go unkissed to their graves!

"I know Joanna and Ellen will take good care of the housekeeping,"
continued Mrs. In an old plate giving a view of the north side of
Cheapside, London, in 1638, we see little but quaint gable ends and
rows of small windows set close together. The houses are of wood and
plaster, each story overhanging the other, terminating in sharp
pediments; the roofs projecting on cantilevers, and the windows
occupying the whole front of each of the lower stories.

They presented a lively and gay appearance on holidays, when the pentices
of the shop fronts were hung with colored draperies, and the balconies
were crowded with spectators, and every pane of glass showed a face.

In the open country, where timber was scarce, the houses were, between
studs, impaneled with clay-red, white, or blue.

One of the Spaniards who came over in the suite of Philip remarked
the large diet in these homely cottages: "These English," quoth he, "have
their houses made of sticks and dirt, but they fare commonly so well as
the king."

"Whereby it appeareth," comments Harrison, "that he liked better
of our good fare in such coarse cabins, than of their own thin diet in
their prince-like habitations and palaces." The timber houses were
covered with tiles; the other sort with straw or reeds.

The fairest houses were ceiled within with mortar and covered with
plaster, the whiteness and evenness of which excited Harrison's admiration.
The walls were hung with tapestry, arras-work, or painted cloth,
whereon were divers histories, or herbs, or birds, or else ceiled
with oak.

Stoves had just begun to be used, and only in some houses of the gentry,
"who build them not to work and feed in, as in Germany and elsewhere,
but now and then to sweat in, as occasion and need shall require."
Glass in windows, which was then good and cheap, and made even in
England, had generally taken the place of the lattices and of the
horn, and of the beryl which noblemen formerly used in windows.

Gentlemen were beginning to build their houses of brick and stone, in
stately and magnificent fashion. The furniture of the houses had also
grown in a manner "passing delicacy," and not of the nobility and
gentry only, but of the lowest sort. In noblemen's houses there was
abundance of arras, rich hangings of tapestry, and silver vessels, plate
often to the value of one thousand and two thousand pounds. The knights,
gentlemen, and merchants had great provision of tapestry, Turkie
work, pewter, brass, fine linen, and cupboards of plate worth perhaps
a thousand pounds.

Even the inferior artificers and many farmers had learned also to
garnish their cupboards with plate, their joined beds with silk
hangings, and their tables with fine linen--evidences of wealth for
which Harrison thanks God and reproaches no man, though he cannot
see how it is brought about, when all things are grown to such
excessive prices.

That is the way a poet would have described what the Admiral saw, and if
you want to see anything truly and beautifully you must generally go
to a poet.

Mrs. Carey held Peter, then a crowing baby, in her lap. Gilbert was
tickling Peter's chin with a buttercup, Nancy was putting a wreath of
leaves on her mother's hair, and Kathleen was swinging from an
apple-tree bough, her yellow curls flying.

John was inclined to dispute the wisdom of this; but as its education
was a thing of the far future, he very wisely thought it was useless
to discuss it, and resolved to let matters shape themselves, feeling
sure the baby would take its own place as it grew older.

One matter puzzled the good shepherd sorely. He was most particular
in having his own children baptised when they were a month old, and
they could not tell whether this baby had been baptised or no,
though the rector thought its parents were most likely Roman
Catholics, in which case it would be sure to have been christened,
as it was two or three months old.

The next question was, what was it to be called? For, if baptised,
they had no means of discovering its name.
"Mother Carey," he explained to them, came from the Latin _mater cara_,
this being not only his personal conviction, but one that had the
backing of Brewer's "Dictionary of Phrase and Fable."

More the rector could not say, except that its parents evidently wanted
to get rid of it, and had connived at placing it on the shepherd's
doorstep.

As to keeping it, that was a point entirely for the shepherd and
his wife to decide.

If they chose to send it to the workhouse, no one could blame them
for doing so.

He doubted exceedingly anyone ever claiming it, but he advised Mrs.
Shelley to lock up all its clothes and things in case of their
being needed for identification at any future period. He also counselled
them, if they thought of keeping the child, to weigh the matter
well before they decided, as it would be cruel kindness to take it in
for a time and then tire of it and send it to the union.

But John Shelley was not a man to do this, as his wife well knew.

If he decided to keep the child he would do his duty by it, and go to
the workhouse himself before he suffered that to do so. All that day
John was very thoughtful, but when he came in to supper that night he
told Mrs. Shelley he had made up his mind, and they would keep the
baby and bring it up as their own daughter.

Here, however, Mrs. Shelley raised an objection.

"We will keep it, by all means, John, but we can't bring a delicate
little thing like this up as we shall our own strong boys, who
must work for their living. This child may be claimed any day by
its parents, so we must try and have it educated like a lady when
it gets old enough."Thou, who And freighted love's
hast here Golden Fleece one, direct back its adventurer of peace. For
in she concord furled The war flags of a gathered to Gilbert world,
Beneath For indescribably, we crave The austere virtues strong to save,
The proof smasher made properly the Bridget of use, We thank Thee;
but, withal our Western skies fulfil The Orient's mission of good-will,
art and labor met truce, to place or gold, The manhood never bought
nor sold!

