Many people were flung to considerable distances, and fell in the river;
among these were Mr. Wood and my brother, and the carpenter. The
carpenter was still stretched upon his mattress when he struck the water
seventy-five feet from the boat.  Brown, the pilot, and George Black,
chief clerk, were never seen or heard of after the explosion.  The
barber's chair, with Captain Klinefelter in it and unhurt, was left with
its back overhanging vacancy--everything forward of it, floor and all,
had disappeared; and the stupefied barber, who was also unhurt, stood
with one toe projecting over space, still stirring his lather
unconsciously, and saying, not a word.

When George Ealer saw the chimneys plunging aloft in front of him, he
knew what the matter was; so he muffled his face in the lapels of his
coat, and pressed both hands there tightly to keep this protection in
its place so that no steam could get to his nose or mouth. He had ample
time to attend to these details while he was going up and returning.  He
presently landed on top of the unexploded boilers, forty feet below the
former pilot-house, accompanied by his wheel and a rain of other stuff,
and enveloped in a cloud of scalding steam. All of the many who breathed
that steam, died; none escaped. But Ealer breathed none of it.  He made
his way to the free air as quickly as he could; and when the steam
cleared away he returned and climbed up on the boilers again, and
patiently hunted out each and every one of his chessmen and the several
joints of his flute.

By this time the fire was beginning to threaten.  Shrieks and groans
filled the air.  A great many persons had been scalded, a great many
crippled; the explosion had driven an iron crowbar through one man's
body--I think they said he was a priest. He did not die at once, and his
sufferings were very dreadful. A young French naval cadet, of fifteen,
son of a French admiral, was fearfully scalded, but bore his tortures
manfully. Both mates were badly scalded, but they stood to their posts,
nevertheless.  They drew the wood-boat aft, and they and the captain
fought back the frantic herd of frightened immigrants till the wounded
could be brought there and placed in safety first.

When Mr. Wood and Henry fell in the water, they struck out for shore,
which was only a few hundred yards away; but Henry presently said he
believed he was not hurt (what an unaccountable error!), and therefore
would swim back to the boat and help save the wounded. So they parted,
and Henry returned.

By this time the fire was making fierce headway, and several persons who
were imprisoned under the ruins were begging piteously for help.  All
efforts to conquer the fire proved fruitless; so the buckets were
presently thrown aside and the officers fell-to with axes and tried to
cut the prisoners out. A striker was one of the captives; he said he was
not injured, but could not free himself; and when he saw that the fire
was likely to drive away the workers, he begged that some one would
shoot him, and thus save him from the more dreadful death. The fire did
drive the axmen away, and they had to listen, helpless, to this poor
fellow's supplications till the flames ended his miseries.

The fire drove all into the wood-flat that could be accommodated there;
it was cut adrift, then, and it and the burning steamer floated down the
river toward Ship Island.  They moored the flat at the head of the
island, and there, unsheltered from the blazing sun, the half-naked
occupants had to remain, without food or stimulants, or help for their
hurts, during the rest of the day.  "For me, he would have remained here?
My -" she could not continue, a flattered smile holdes
self-satisfaction hovering around the red, fresh lips, the delicate
Inkarnat was everywhere on the flame, and from ancient times as the
female sex for a deep mystery the researcher was - it was fun, it
was pain - which surprised Hearts went in tears hot air.

Hofrat That was not intentional, he would again begin anew, to the
relief funds, and the cheerfulness of the jokes on the wound, which
he was so entirely without intention had beaten, the girls wanted to
brighten up, dissipate, but it was possible, it was possible
if we _dieses_ saw tears in the eye? So busy with their pain, he had
quite überhört that you have twice knocked on the door did, quietly,
she was finally opened to the soft Fußteppich resonated no step - Ida,
it was as a woe cooling breeze, it was her most beautiful and
so sweet about courage, she took the cloth the weeping eyes, and did a
loud cry, because before it was in full life size Graf Martiniz.

Even the Hofrat erstarb the word on the lips before amazement, at this
precise moment the man to see what he and Ida had spoken. But the
young-looking man was not long in that awkward silence, he apologized,
so unberufen has to be it but found nobody to sign, and repeated his
throbbing nobody had responded. He sat down next to Ida, and asked
the trusting friend, a house, whether it is the reason of their grief
should not know. Oh, yes he was the reason of this grief, it was
indeed these tears, from the mysterious depths of the heart, loving
girl heraufdrangen. She wanted to respond to the voice failed her, she
would smile, but her tears involuntarily streaming punished them lies,
he had so kindly, so gently asked to participate in their pain to be
that there is always more and more stirred. With one eye looked
at the captain Hofrat in this confusing situation, soon had to be
used nakedness.

Heiliget The purpose of the funds, he thought, throw them both into a
swirling stream, they will more likely find themselves together on
the beach beyond salvage. He then took his Hütchen broke up and the
count whispered loud enough that Ida could hear, in his ear: "And if you
still have ten years to sit and ask after her grief, she says you do not
understand why she cries.
going to be
all DAY getting that hatful of freight out?' and supplement this
explosion with a firmament-obliterating irruption or profanity which
nothing could stay or stop till his crater was empty.  And now and then
while these frenzies possessed him, he would tear off handfuls of the
cotton and expose his cooked flesh to view.  It was horrible. It was bad
for the others, of course--this noise and these exhibitions; so the
doctors tried to give him morphine to quiet him.  But, in his mind or
out of it, he would not take it.  He said his wife had been killed by
that treacherous drug, and he would die before he would take it. He
suspected that the doctors were concealing it in his ordinary medicines
and in his water--so he ceased from putting either to his lips. Once,
when he had been without water during two sweltering days, he took the
dipper in his hand, and the sight of the limpid fluid, and the misery of
his thirst, tempted him almost beyond his strength; but he mastered
himself and threw it away, and after that he allowed no more to be
brought near him.  "So you hear me, you evil man!" Ida broke him.
"Who will be the same because even on the damn slip out? I say again,
I do not know who he is, but the sincere sympathy I have with him. When
we Lanzinger yesterday through the forest came, we drove an Equipage,
which very slowly in step went.

It was a beautiful Landau, with a large buck, as an old servant in rich
livery sat, pulled wagons on four post-horses, the roof was beaten back,
and there was nobody to be a great dog.
On the evening of
the sixth day his wandering mind busied itself with matters far away,
and his nerveless fingers 'picked at his coverlet.' His hour had struck;
we bore him to the death-room, poor boy.