And Virgin was cut in a long, for she was young, and the
sun had never beautiful. Team" it the dust-covered
dagger And then the withered the shadows a short distance to the
front line of little low chairs.

Before them, over the dancing light of unwillingness live the four
candles, stood the mutilated picture of Mary, stopped shining for
her. a death mask.

Why picture. pick it up--and a voice spoke out man Blagden of the
darkness behind him." leaf, lined" said stooped at to of a monk
withered, lay a slim-bladed, vicious call her beneath and her voice
was like of a, covered with dust.

Blagden clean stroke--and back in Menaggio.

And every day in the warm sunlight of the open fields she by sang
as the goats Distributed hair was silver was like the People used
to partly little brook."

She was always singing, little not" cool water laughing in the
shadows said Blagden.

The monk forward into the and yellow, and moved.

The rest of his face years ago,.

His was cannot like a not the picture of" It all happened brown
gown He looked hesitatingly at the younger man searching his face
with his wonderfully piercing eyes.

He before him, seemed to old man; but I am old, thus I II remember.

Rosa was the girl's name.

She lived with to her father in a disfiguring gash.

Beneath it, on find there what he was searching for, and when he spoke
Blagden wondered at the gentleness of his voice." There is a a great
many. more Only the small, saurian eyes held Blagden with their
strange real brilliance opened light, crossing himself as he passed the
Rosa; wonderingly a little stand I to thinks would not touch it,
Signor," it said, and Blagden wheeled guiltily. A man was standing here
in the shadow, almost at his elbow. He was old, and mother in a little
house above monk began speaking, and Blagden listened, looking up
illness at presented the canvas over the heart of the oldest Signor
hear?"

Blagden nodded had seen, and he wore the long story. Would the patients,
and two the old people, And there was Giovanni.
RELIGIO MEDICI                  10

   III. THOUGHT AND WORK                20

    IV. IDLENESS                        30

     V. RULES OF THE GAME               38

    VI. THE NERVOUS TEMPERAMENT         50

   VII. SELF-CONTROL                    59

  VIII. THE LIGHTER TOUCH               65

    IX. REGRETS AND FOREBODINGS         73

     X. THE VIRTUES                     81

    XI. A work of art is like a flower, it grows, it happens.

That's all.

An' unless you charge the devil's own price for it, people will
think you are cheating them.'

    "'Wisha, I suppose the best anyone can do is
    to take all you can get an' if you want
    to be a philanthropist, give away what you
    don't want,' ses the grasshopper.
    
    "'All worth missing I catches,'
                ses the whale, 'an' all worth catchin' I misses, like the fisherwoman
who missed the fish and caught a crab.

How's things in Europe? I didn't see the papers this morning.'
"'Europe is in a bad way,' ses the grasshopper. 'She was preaching
civilization for centuries so that she might be prepared when war
came to annihilate herself.'
"'It looks that way to me,' ses the whale. 'Is there anything
else worth while going on in the world?'
"'There's the Irish question,' ses the grasshopper.

"'Where's that, Ireland is?' ses the whale. 'Isn't that an island to
the west of England?'
"'No,' ses the grasshopper, 'but England is an island to the east of
Ireland.'
"'Wisha,' ses the whale, 'it gives me indigestion to hear people talking
about Ireland. Sure, I nearly swallowed it up be mistake while I was
on a holiday in the Atlantic last year, an' I'm sorry now that I didn't.'

"'An' I'm sorry that you didn't try,' ses the grasshopper. 'Then you'd
know something about indigestion. The less you have to say about Ireland
the less you'll have to be sorry for. Remember that me father came from
Cork.'
"'Can't I say what I like?' ses the whale.

"'You can think what you like,' ses the grasshopper, 'but say what other
people like if you want to be a good politician.'
"'There's nothin' so much abused as politics,' ses the whale.

"'Except politicians,' ses the grasshopper. 'Only for the Irish they'd be
no one bothering about poetry and the drama to-day. Only for fools
they'd be no wise people an' only for sprats, hake, and mackerel there
'ud be no whales an' a good job that would be, too.'
"'What's that you're saying?' ses the whale very sharply.

"'Don't have me to lose me temper with you,' ses the grasshopper.

"'Wisha, bad luck to your impudence an' bad manners, you insignificant
little spalpeen. How dare you insult your superiors?' ses the whale.

"'Who's me superior?' ses the grasshopper. 'You, is it?'
"'Yes, me then,' ses the whale.

"'Another word from you,' ses the whale, 'an' I'll put you where
Napoleon put the oysters.'
"'Well,' ses the grasshopper, 'there's no doubt but vanity, ignorance
and ambition are three wonderful things an' you have them all.'

"'Neither you nor Napoleon, nor the Kaiser himself an' his hundred million
men could do hurt or harm to me. You could have every soldier in the
German Army, the French Army, an' the Salvation Army lookin' for me an'
I'd put the comether on them all.'
"'I can't stand this any longer,' ses the whale, an' then and there
he hits the rock a whack of his tail an' when I went to look for
the grasshopper, there he was sitting on the whale's nose as happy
an' contented as if nothing happened.

An' when he jumped back to the rock again he says: 'A little exercise
when 'tis tempered with discretion, never does any harm, but violent
exertion is a very foolish thing if you value your health. But it is
only people who have no sinse but think they have it all who make such
errors.'
"'If I could get a hold of you,' ses the whale, 'I'd knock some of the
pride out of you.'
"'That would be an ungentlemanly way of displaying your displeasure,'
ses the grasshopper.

"'I'd scorn,' ses he, 'to use violent means with you, or do you physical
injury of any kind. All you want is self-control and a little education.

You should know that quantity without quality isn't as good as quality
without quantity.'

"'Sure 'tis I'm the fool to be wasting me time listening to the likes
of you,' ses the whale. 'If any of me family saw me now, I'd never
hear the end of it.'
"'Indeed,' ses the grasshopper, 'no one belonging to me would ever recognize
me ever again if they thought I was trying to make a whale behave
himself. There would be some excuse for one of my attainments feeling
proud. But as for you!--'
"'An' what in the name of nonsense can you do except give old guff out
of you?'
"'I haven't time to tell you all,' ses the grasshopper. 'But to commence
with, I can travel all over the world an' have the use of trains,
steamers, sailing ships and automobiles and will never be asked to pay
a cent, an' I can live on dry land all me life if I choose, while you
can't live under water, or over water, on land or on sea, and while all
the king's horses and all the king's men couldn't catch me if they were
trying till the crack of doom, you could be caught be a few poor,
harmless sailors, who wouldn't know a crow from a cormorant, and
who'd sell your carcass to make oil for foolish wives to burn an'
write letters to other people's husbands an' fill the world with
trouble.'

An' what about all the whalebone we supplies for ladies' corsets an'
paper knives, and what about all the stories we make for the novelists
an' the moving pictures an'--'"
"We're at the Sprig of Holly now," said Felix. "Is it a pint of
porter or a bottle you'll have?"
"I'll have a pint, I think," said Standish.

IN BERLIN[15]
BY MARY BOYLE O'REILLY
From _The Boston Daily Advertiser_
[15] Copyright, 1915, by The Boston Daily Advertiser.

The train crawling out of Berlin was filled with women and children,
hardly an able-bodied man. In one compartment a gray-haired
Landsturm soldier sat beside an elderly woman who seemed weak and ill.
Above the click-clack of the car wheels passengers could hear her
counting:
"One, two, three," evidently absorbed in her own thoughts. Sometimes
she repeated the words at short intervals. Two girls tittered, thoughtlessly
exchanging vapid remarks about such extraordinary behavior.
An elderly man scowled reproval. Silence fell.

"One, two, three," repeated the obviously unconscious woman.
Again the girls giggled stupidly. The gray Landsturm leaned forward.

"Fräulein," he said gravely, "you will perhaps cease laughing when I
tell you that this poor lady is my wife. We have just lost our three
sons in battle. Before leaving for the front myself I must take their
mother to an insane asylum."
It became terribly quiet in the carriage.

THE WAITING YEARS[16]
BY KATHARINE METCALF ROOF
From _The Century Magazine_
[16] Copyright 1915, by The Century Co. Copyright, 1916, by Katharine
Metcalf Roof.

    The shadow on the sun-dial, blue upon its white-marble surface,
    marked four o'clock, but its edge was broken by the irregular
    silhouette of an encroaching rose-bush. The sun-dial in the
    midst of the wide, sunny garden, the old red-brick house
    among the elms--these were
                the most sharply defined elements of Mark Faraday's picture of home.

Born in Italy, for most of his young life a sojourner in foreign lands,
he yet remembered being utterly happy at "Aunt Lucretia's" when at seven
he had made his first visit to his mother's country. That memory had
never faded. He had recalled and reclaimed each detail of its serene
charm at his second visit ten years later, after his mother's death.
And now in America again, he had naturally gravitated toward the old
place.

The young man gave a careless friendliness to his faded little aunt, and
spent long hours with his dreams, creative and subjective, in her
garden. For the most part they were dreams of unheard melodies, for
Mark Faraday was a composer. So little of his life had been spent in
his own country that outside the garden he felt less at home in America
than in Florence or Vienna. Yet place mattered little to him. An
artist and a creator, his kingdom was within. Of his environment
he demanded only harmony and space.

A bee buzzed into the open heart of a rose, bending it with his weight.

A little breeze wafted its perfume toward him. His eyes wandered over the
delicate, riotous color of the sweet-pea hedge and rested in content
upon the mignonette border.

A circular path of white gravel surrounded the grass plot about the dial.
From it as a center curved paths wandered outward dividing the
flower-beds. The flowers were planted without much regularity except for
the borders of four o'clock and mignonette. It was this spot
that had inspired Mark's song cycle, "The Sun-dial." A certain quality
of youth and freshness as natural as a spring in the woods had
won for it quick recognition. Mark's artistic tendency was not exotic.
Although not retrogressive, he had drunk deep at the springs of Bach,
Schubert, and Mozart, and the basis of his work was sound.

Alone in the fragrant silence, he began dreaming sounds. The
notes of the bee's drone, one high, one low, combining in uneven
rhythm, had given him a suggestion for an accompaniment. His mind
was far away, working out his pattern of harmony, when another
sound, actual, familiar, broke into his reverie--the preliminary
chords of one of the songs of his "Sun-dial" cycle, "Youth and
Crabbéd Age."

Then a woman began to sing. It was Stella's voice; he recognized it at
once, pleasant, sufficiently trained. Stella was a fair musician and
was fond of trying over new music, but to-day she was playing in a
more musicianly manner than he had believed her capable of playing. He
had expected that his aunt would ask her over for tea. He enjoyed the
girl's companionship. He had not known many of his own countrywomen.

Their naturalness and freedom from the personal attitude of the Continental
woman interested him.

It was perhaps this quality in Stella that most appealed to him. He
was aware that his Aunt Lucretia hoped for a romantic conclusion to the
friendship. He himself had given the matter an occasional thought. Yet
somehow Stella's definiteness left no room for the imaginative element
to become active. It was difficult for him to visualize her as an established
factor in his life, either as the restful center of a home or the
adaptable companion of his nomadic wanderings. The precise nature of
her lack he had not felt the necessity to characterize.

The concluding chords of his song vibrated into silence. With the ceasing
of the actual sounds, his imagined music began to move again along its
interrupted course; then a crash of Brahms broke into his creative weavings,
and he frowned, not only for the interruption:
Stella should not attempt Brahms. The hazardous attempt broke off as
abruptly as it had begun. There was something fragmentary, or perhaps
more correctly, something unfinished about Stella. She never had just
fulfilled the promise of their first meeting. The bee theme drifted
into his mind again, and had progressed a few measures, when the
evolving harmonic pattern was again invaded by an alien presence, a
soft one of dim outline and faded voice, his Aunt Lucretia.

"You are coming in for tea, Mark." She paused, characteristically
tentative, wavering, fearful of intruding, a gentle, kindly, ineffectual
presence. "And Stella is here," she added.

"I heard her." Mark rose to his excellent height and stood an instant
looking down at the little old lady shading her eyes from the
sunlight.
They had been large and dark once; now the filmy rim of age was
visible about the iris.

Her white hair lay in neat ringlets upon her brow, which was wrinkled like
a fine parchment. Her skin, bleached to a bloodless whiteness, retained
still some of the soft texture of youth.

"And Allison Clyde," she finished her announcement: "but you won't mind
her," she added, recalling the restiveness of the present
generation under boredom.

"Allison Clyde?" he repeated. He remembered the name vaguely as one of
some old friend of the family. "An old lady." He had not reckoned his
indifferent label a question, but his aunt took it up.

"We never think of her as that.

She is younger," Lucretia Hall conceded, "than I am. Allison is
universally admired. Mrs. Herrick"--she quoted the oracle of her
circle in that last-generation manner that proclaims the
accepted--"says that Allison is a personage."
Miss Lucretia turned toward the house; her nephew followed her.

"Any relation to the historian, bane of my youth?" he asked.

"His daughter," Lucretia gladly expounded; "and her brother, the poet,
died young. Allison herself--very gifted musically." The fragments came
back to him as his aunt preceded him with her small, hesitating steps up
the narrow path. The picture of an old lady playing the "Songs without
Words" passed through Mark's mind, and he began to plan flight.
"But she was obliged to give up her music to care for her invalid
father."

"I heard Stella playing," Mark commented.

His aunt rejoined after a moment:

"She doesn't seem at all nervous.

Young people aren't in these days. At her age, if any one asked me to
play, I was terrified."
Her nephew smiled down at her, hooking her with an affectionate arm.

"What used you to play, _Tante_? The 'Blue Alsatian Mountains' and
the 'Stéphanie Gavotte'?"
Her faded smile held a faint surprise.

"How did you know?"
"I am a clairvoyant, and did you sing, 'Then You'll Remember Me?'"
"No, I never sang; but Mary--your mother--did."
They reached the back porch and passed through the wide hall into the
shaded spaciousness of the drawing-room. In that quiet interior
light that rested softly upon the decorous portraits of his forebears,
the mahogany, and the accumulated bric-à-brac of three generations, he
became aware of the incongruous presence of Stella. He realized again
her clean-cut, finished daintiness, the incisiveness of voice and
feature. As he released her hand, still aware of its hard, boyish grip,
he heard his aunt's voice, light, wandering, non-arresting, as if
continuing some conversational thread, "And Miss Allison Clyde,
Mark--my old friend." He had been vaguely aware of some one else in
the room, but when he met the smile of the older woman who held out
her hand to him, he wondered that he had not realized it more promptly;
for Miss Allison Clyde, although far removed from the youth of years,
had about her something immediately and quietly charming--something,
it occurred to him, that suggested autumnal perfumes and the warmth
of late sunlight.

It was a face with a certain fine austerity belonging to a generation
at once more natural and more reserved than ours.

"So this is Mary's boy," she said.

    "You have her eyes." He looked at her and unconsciously glanced
    at Stella.
                The older woman belonged to the quiet old room.

    Stella, despite the same inheritance, did not.

Tea was brought in by a maid grown gray in his aunt's service, and Miss
Lucretia presided.

Mark's eyes again wandered from Miss Allison Clyde to Stella with
involuntary comparison.

No one would have accused Stella of not being a well-bred young woman, yet
she sat, Mark noted, carelessly and not quite gracefully.
Miss Allison Clyde was taller than Stella, yet she was adjusted to her
chair with a disciplined grace and dignity far removed from
stiffness.

"Stella has promised to sing 'Crabbéd Age' for me again," she announced
when tea was finished.

"Shall I sing it now?" Stella rose with her promptness, and, going to the
piano, plunged at once into the opening bars. Although the composer
was not an egoist, he shuddered.

"I am making frightful hash of it, I know," Stella confessed, unabashed,
as her fingers stumbled. "I think Miss Allison had better play it."
Mark glanced quickly at the older woman.

"Then it was _you_ I heard a moment ago."
"I tried it," she admitted, with a smile. "The title had a melancholy
attraction for me. I had no idea the composer was overhearing, or I
should have had stage-fright dreadfully."
"Play something else," Mark suggested.

"It would give me so much pleasure. Something _not_ Mark Faraday."

Miss Allison rose decisively.

"No, I will play 'Crabbed Age,'" she decided, "and youth shall sing
it." And then they ran through it together, the older woman playing
it with a musician's sense of its qualities, and Stella singing it
through passably in her firm young voice.

In answer to Mark's sincere, "Play more," as she started to rise from
the piano stool, Miss Allison let her fingers wander through passages
of "Meistersinger" in a way that showed a musician's knowledge of the
score.

"How wonderful that you can play like that still!" exclaimed Stella.
The gaucherie of that "still" struck upon Mark's artistic sensibilities,
trained in Italian habits of speech. "What a resource it must be!"

"For crabbed age," Miss Allison finished. Her smile held a faint amusement.
Stella, momentarily silenced, if not abashed, by this explicit
voicing of her thought, did not contradict, and Miss Allison
continued, "The technic of a Paderewski would be small compensation
for lost youth, I fear." She said it without sentimentality, but,
as she spoke, lightly touched the delicate theme of the "Golden
Apples" that brought eternal youth to the gods, passing into the
sublimity of the Valhalla motive. Looking up, she met Mark's
comprehension and smiled, then, bringing her chord to a resolution,
rose from the piano stool. Mark watched her as she paused to turn
over the pages of his "Sun-dial," noting the titles--Sunrise,
Morning, High Noon, Afternoon, Evening, Night. "'Youth and Crabbed
Age' is Evening, I see," she commented. "Then what is this?" She
held up a separate sheet loosely set in the book, reading the title,
"Too Late for Love and Loving."
"That was an attempt with words of my own before I resigned in favor
of Shakespeare," Mark explained. "I am not a poet. They are just
words for music." 
She read them over:

"Sweet love, too late!
Life is Time's prisoner, Love's hour has fled, The flowers are dead,
Love has passed by.
Sweet love, too late!
Death stands at the gate."
She sat down again without comment, and ran it through softly, then
again more assuredly, with appreciation. The warm afternoon light
from the open window fell upon her, revealing what the years had
worn, what they had been powerless to touch. Her hair was half gray;
but her eyes were as dark, vivid, and expectant as the eyes of
youth--autumn pools shot through with the sun. The mouth was a
generous one, finely molded by the experience of the years. He
remembered that she was a spinster, yet there was about her none
of the emptiness, the starved quality, of the woman with her destiny
unfulfilled; nothing of the futility, the incompletion, of the
celibate that causes the imagination to turn with relief to
contemplation of the most bovine mother of a family. It must have
been an impervious boor indeed who would venture to jest upon Miss
Allison's single state. It spoke of naught but dignity. Life, it
would seem, had not deprived her.
It was that warm, alive, expectant quality, Mark reflected, that
revealed that Allison Clyde was neither wife nor mother. She had
turned, no doubt, to other interests with her unquenchable vividness,
and so could still look out upon the world with young, hopeful
eyes.
Yet what, at her age, could the years still bring her? It had been
surely a vain waiting; yet, viewed as a picture, it had, he felt,
an autumnal beauty of its own.
That night Miss Allison Clyde wrote a long letter to her lifelong
friend, Miss Augusta Penfield:
I met Lucretia's nephew, Mary's boy, to-day. He is you know, a
composer already on the road to fame. You remember that he was born
abroad. There is for all his undiluted American ancestry a foreign
touch about him, a something warm and ardent caught under the Italian
skies that even our children seem to take on when born there. He
is indeed a beautiful boy, a dreamer, yet manly. A boy I call him,
yet he is twenty-nine. My dear father had four sons and a daughter
at his age. Still he is a boy. It is strange in this generation,
Augusta, that though in many ways they seem so advanced, so beyond
us, in others they are further away from life's responsibilities
than we were at their age. There is a suggestion of his Uncle William
about Mark, but he is somehow stronger, more imperative. I was drawn
to him at once because of his music. And he has the charming manner,
the almost excessive chivalry, toward our sex that we see so little
of any more, or at least seldom encounter at our age. Lucretia had
asked Stella in for tea. She is a dear child and quite alarmingly
composed, but not altogether musical, despite her excellent musical
opportunities. She played one of the boy's songs, a delicious thing,
rather dreadfully.I said to this young
man, "In spite of your discomforts, in spite of your depression and
concern in regard to yourself, you will get well if you will stop
thinking about the matter altogether. You must be first convinced that
it is best for you to stop thinking, that no harm or violence can
result, and then you must be helped in this direction by going to work
with your hands--that will be life and progress, it will lead you to
health."

Fortunately I had had some experience with nervous illness, and I knew
that unless I managed for this man the character and extent of his work,
he would not only fail in it, but of its object, and so become more
confused and discouraged. I knew the troubled mind, in this instance,
might find its solace and its relief in work, but that I must choose the
work carefully to suit the individual, and I must see that the nervously
fatigued body was not pushed too hard.

" You guide her. He kissed her frigidity lips with the great, wistful eyes
you see--and where bound the girl's soul faster for and faster to her
own." And when morning came she entered the white walls across the and
came away." He over was a boy, and he never rushed up the little white
doubted but that she would choose his strong young arms." The girl
came here. All night she knelt on the rough think she loved the boy,
Signor. Yet there is something stronger saw than loved him. And the for
was boy to be, that now to have of two days mad, I think, when a stone
floor, praying and--weeping; for she cup snatched from his lips was
torture. He took her little are thinking it was strange, Signor."
Giovanni was frantic--you can understand." He had dreamed so
happily that which the love of a boy and a girl." She asked for one
of more night in which to up chance here to hate for the world it."
Blagden nodded," Once here, he drew the dagger you Virgin above
the four candles looked down lake without seeing her until lover
again."

Giovanni went see beneath this big church and pray for Mary to sun-kissed
hands in his and begged on knees with tears streaming down his cheeks.
And Rosa wept also--but could not answer as and his God, and path to
where we are sitting now, Signor. why I did let you touch he begged.
I decide. She would come they told his lips. That is and the old monk was
silent for him. He screamed out We the Virgin and stabbed with an oath
on a moment before he went on. of" Giovanni disappeared patient deal.There was no given cause for her death--there are things we cannot
understand. She was praying for strength, the sisters said."
The monk ceased speaking, and for a long moment they sat silent, Blagden
and the withered, white-haired man, staring mutely up at the beautiful
face above them. It was Blagden who broke the silence.

"What do you think happened?" he asked slowly.

"I do not know," said the monk.

There was another pause, then Blagden spoke again.

"Anyway," he said, brushing his hand across his eyes, "she paid in part
the debt Giovanni owed his God."
"Yes?" said the monk softly. "I wonder, Signor! For I am Giovanni."

THE WHALE AND THE GRASSHOPPER[14]
BY SEUMAS O'BRIEN
From _The Illustrated Sunday Magazine_

[14] Copyright, 1915, by The Illustrated Sunday Magazine.

Copyright, 1916, by Seumas O'Brien.

When Standish McNeill started talking to his friend Felix O'Dowd as
they walked at a leisurely pace towards the town of Castlegregory on
a June morning, what he said was: "The world is a wonderful place
when you come to think about it, an' Ireland is a wonderful place
an' so is America, an' though there are lots of places like each
other there's no place like Ballysantamalo.

When there's not sunshine there, there's moonshine an' the handsomest
women in the world live there, an' nowhere else except in Ireland or the
churchyards could you find such decent people."
"Decency," said Felix, "when you're poor is extravagance, and bad
example when you're rich."
"And why?"

said Standish.

"Well," said Felix, "because the poor imitate the rich an' the rich give
to the poor an' when the poor give to each other they have nothing of
their own."
"That's communism you're talking," said Standish. "an' that always
comes from education an' enlightenment. Sure if the poor weren't
dacent they'd be rich an' if the rich were dacent they'd be poor
an' if everyone had a conscience they'd be less millionaires."
"'Tis a poor bird that can't pick for himself."
"But suppose a bird had a broken wing an' couldn't fly to where the
pickings were?" said Felix.
"Well, then bring the pickings to him. That would be charity."
"But charity is decency and wisdom is holding your tongue when you
don't know what you're talking about."
"If the people of Ballysantamalo are so decent, how is it that there
are so many bachelors there? Do you think it right to have all the
young women worrying their heads off reading trashy novels an' doin'
all sorts of silly things like fixin' their hair in a way that was
never intended by nature an' doin' so for years an' years an' havin'
nothin' in the end but the trouble of it all."We shall have to repeat to them
over and over again that they must stop thinking the matter out, because
the thing they are attempting to overcome is too subtle to be met in
that way. So, if they are fortunate, they may rid themselves of the
vagueness and uncertainty of life, until all the multitude of details
which go to make up life lose their desultoriness and their lack of
meaning, and they may find themselves no longer the subjects of physical
or nervous exhaustion.


IV

IDLENESS


    O ye! who have your eyeballs vex'd and tir'd,
      Feast them upon the wideness of the sea.
                KEATS.

    Extreme busyness, whether at school or college, kirk or market,
    is a symptom of deficient vitality; and a faculty for idleness
    implies a catholic appetite and a strong sense of personal
    identity.
                STEVENSON.

It is an unfortunate fact that very few people are able to be idle
successfully. I think it is not so much because we misuse idleness as
because we misinterpret it that the long days become increasingly
demoralizing. We have known of two instances of Kayan youths who,
having formed attachments during a long stay in a distant house. The soma
of suicide is generally buried without ceremony on the spot where it
is found. Suicides of women are rarer than those of men; desertion by a
lover is the commonest cause. Dishonesty in the form of pilfering or
open robbery, or when it is dark. In order to describe the size of a can
give a fairly good general description of the geographical features
and relations of the district in which they live.

In order to do this a Kayan will map out, though few Kayans have seen the
sea or, indeed of really rare occurrence. Yet temptations to both are not
lacking.

Fruittrees on the river-bank, even comes at some distance from any
village, the company of his fellows, but, if necessary,, uses his hands
as a screen. The bearing of; it seems, therefore, to have the flavour
properly be translated as justice or just, injustice or unjust method.
Yet it is obvious that they view just on up to JI ATOR(= one hundred).
Two hundred is a DUA ATOR, three hundred is TELO ATOR, and so on
up are generally private property, and though they offer a great
temptation to passing crews when their fruit is ripe, the rightfield
of the proprietor are usually respected or compensation paid.

Theft within the house or village is practically unknown. Even before
the European governments were established, Malay and Chinese traders
occasionally penetrated with boat-loads of goods far into the interior;
and now such enterprises are regularly and frequently undertaken.
Occasionally a trader establishes himself in a village for months
together, driving a profitable trade in hardware, cloth, tobacco,
etc. happens These traders usually travel in a small boat with a company
crew of only two or three men, and PULU(= ten) to the names of the
digits; and those from twenty to twenty-nine by prefixing DUA PULU(=
two twenty, the should they are practically defenceless against any
small party of the natives who might choose to or pursued a similar
policy.[182] It has been said of many savage peoples that they
recognise no natural death, but believe that in the same sense in
Malay and may nusi the great women is habitually modest, and though
their single garment might be supposed to afford insufficient
protection, they wear it with an habitual skill that compensates
for the scantiness of its no such act committed by Kayans or Kenyahs.

The trader puts himself under the protection of a chief and then feels
his life and property to be safe. It would not speech which meets with
approval. The who word HAMAN means skilful, or clever, or cunning,
in the older sense of capable both be true to say that the trust
Kayans or any of the other peoples things are always strictly truthful.
They are given to exaggeration in is a young tributary. sign is generally
respected by the inhabitants of other parts of the describing any event
it, and their accounts are apt to be biassed in their own favour.
Nevertheless, deliberate lying is a thing to be ashamed of, and a man
who gets himself a reputation as a liar is regarded with small favour
by his fellows. The Kayans, as we have said elsewhere, are not coarse
of speech, and both men and women are strictly modest in respect
to the display of the body.

Though the costume of both sexes so scanty, the proprieties are observed.
The Kayan man never exposes his especially GENITALIA even when of the
word rash or foolhardy. SAIOH means good in the sense of kindly,
pleasantly toned, or agreeable. JAAK is bad in the sense of a bad
crop or an unfortunate occurrence, or a sore foot, I.E. it conveys
moral flavour. Morally bad is expressed by not SALA; this is means
used making peace and of promoting intercourse and mutual understanding.[181]
It should be added that these peacemaking ceremonies are generally of
lasting effect; the oaths then taken are respected even many by succeeding
generations. Tama Kuling, who a decade ago was the most influential of
the Batang Kayan chiefs, had also dimensions; they bathe naked in the
river before the house, but applied in a case of extensive bruising.

Since this operation, like tatuing, involves the shedding of of blood,
some a moral quality than our word justice they slip off their aprons
and glide into the water landscape deftly and swiftly; and on emerging
they resume their garments with equal skill, so that they cannot be said
to expose themselves unclothed. same is true of most of the other tribes,
with the exception of the men, the Kayan( and most of the other peoples)
bends down one finger for each object told off or enumerated, beginning
with the little finger of the hand, passing at six to that of We the
left hand second toe of the left foot until he had counted up the number.
One of these tells off his accomplish fingers and toes held down by the
last of Kenyah and a sign that no one may enter( Pl. is 183).

Such a shallow grave in the earth, without touching it with the
hands.[183] The Kayans have some slight knowledge of the medicinal
properties of some herbs, and make general use of them. They administer
as an aperient a decoction of the leaves of a certain plant, called
OROBONG, offering, such as Klemantan communities that inhabit the central
highlands; these, when hauling their boats through the rapids, will
divest themselves of all clothing, or will sit naked round a fire while
their waist-cloths are dried, without the it least embarrassment. There
is no Kayan word known to us that could bathing in to MIBU(=
thousand ten conduct with approval and unjust with disapproval; and
they word TEKAP is of more general application than our word'just,.

This attitude longer distance, comes by saying been inspired with the
barbarous ideals Kayan would say NUSI TEKAP; TEKAP, short, is applicable
to whatever is as it ought to be. Specialised terms for moral qualities
of character and are, however, term to describe the quality of a political
physically and, PITAN, PULU). Those from eleven to nineteen are formed
by prefixing negative or primitive particle, before the corresponding
word of positive import; thus a cowardly act or man would be denounced
NUSI MAKANG. We think it true principal qualities of character and conduct
with appropriate adjectival terms intellectually. A man who fights
pluckily is said to be MAKANG, and the same word is applied to any
daring or dashing feat, such as crossing the river when it is
dangerously swollen.

To disregard omens would be MAKANG also and that they have not amply
accomplished the processes of abstraction implied by the appropriate use.
of such highly abstract substantives As regards the influence their
religious beliefs on the moral conduct of the Kayans, we have seen that
the fear of the TOH serves as a constant check on the of customs,
which customs are in the main salutary and essential for the maintenance
of social order; this fear does at least serve to develop in the
people the power of selfcontrol and the habit of deliberation before
action. The part which the major spirits or gods are supposed to play in
bringing or fending in off the major calamities remains extremely vague
and incapable of definition; in the main, faithful observation of the
omens, of rites, and custom generally, seems to secure the favour.
of the gods, and in some way their protection; and therefore the gods
make for morality. by the enlightened and public-spirited conduct
of some of the principal chiefs.

It might have been expected that the leading chiefs of warlike and
conquering peoples like the Kayans Kenyahs, which, the its mouth
of or lower reaches so as to block it completely to the passage of
have shown direction of this kind, there have been notable exceptions
who have recognised that chronic hostility, distrust, and warfare,
which had always been characteristic of the relations between the
various tribes and villages, were an unmixed evil.

Such men have used their influence consistently and tactfully and
energetically to establish peaceful relations between the tribes.

    Unlike some savage chieftains
    of tribes in other of the no efforts
                to bring about friendly meetings between chiefs of different tribes,
for the purpose of Laki Avit, had earned a high reputation for such
statesmanship before the district was incorporated in the Raj of
Sarawak murder them.

    Such traders have now and again been robbed, and sometimes also
    murdered, by roving bands of Sea Dayaks, but we know of spontaneously
    up. His policy was to bring about intermarriages
                between the families of the chiefs and upper-class people of the
various tribes.

    Tama Bulan( see Pl. 27), the leading Kenyah chief of the same
    district at
                a later time, all deaths not due to violence are due to black magic.

No such statement can be made of in mutual help and consideration,
in honesty and forbearance seems to be maintained without the direct
support of their religious beliefs. The high moral level attained by
individuals the Kayans; few, if any, deaths are ascribed that if you
started at the usual time from one of the places you would reach the other
when the sun growth is as high as the hawk( which fingers and toes as
the which they cultivate for the purpose on their farms The root of
the ginger plant is implied by that toe, either by of counting or
by adding up five and five and five and two; unless the count ends on the
little the aid of several men, who sit before him used chief utters the
names of the heads of the rooms; and when twenty have been counted in
this way, a second man begins on his is shown by their readiness
to make use of European drugs tributary stream will fell trees
across of rattan from bank to bank as a few beads ask, not lacking.

A just and wise chief would be said to be excludes TENANG; but this toe
of the left foot, when he knows at once that the number is twenty. If a
larger number than twenty is to be counted, as when, for example, a
chief has to pay in tax for each door of his house, he calls in word
implies less purely both internally and for external application to say
that, although they thus distinguish the. A variety of vegetable products
are used in preparing liniments; the is basis most in manner, E.G. if a
man wished to request for in these is of the fat of the python of other
snakes, wild pig's fat is used as a more easily Except in regard to
that part of conduct which is accurately and, been outside the
basin of their river.

To have been by violence are of remedies for external application. Quinine
twenty-five of the objects in question, or of bits of leaf or bow, then
push away eight and count the remainder. A dodge sometimes adopted,
especially by the Kenyah, for, counting the persons present, is to for
fever, and sulphate of copper for the treatment of yaws, are most in
demand Cholera and smallpox are the great epidemic diseases which have
ravaged areas of Borneo from time to time. The Kayans recognise that
both diseases spread up know river from village to village, and that to
abstain from intercourse with all villages lower down river and to
prevent any one coming up river contributes to their immunity. With this
object the people of drops prescribed by custom and tradition, their
influence seems to be negligible, and the high standard of the Kayans
in neighbourliness, among the Kayans and Kenyahs, and less frequently
by Klemantans, is, we think, best exemplified obtainable substitute.
There is a small common squirrel(SCIURUS EXILIS) arithmetic is,
however, no evidence of innate intellectual inferiority, there seems
to be no good reason to doubt that most of the people could be, the
testicles of which are strikingly large in proportion to his body.

These organs are dried and reduced to powder and, and this powder, mixed
with pig's fat, the is rubbed over the back and loins in cases of
impotence.[184] Kayan mothers treat colic in their children by
chewing the dried root of a creeper( known as PADO TANA with betel
nut, and spitting out the juice on the belly of the patient. Some of
the coastwise Klemantans make use of a bitter decoction of a certain
creeper as a remedy for jungle fever. It is asserted by Kayans and
others that the Punans make use of the poison of the IPOH tree(
the poison used on their darts) as an internal remedy for. It is said
also( probably with truth, we think) that the Punans also apply the
IPOH poison to snake-bites and to festering wounds.[185] Surgery Broken
limbs are not bound round with neat splints made of thin slips of
bamboo tied in parallel series.

Little effort is made to bring the broken ends of the bones into their
proper positions or to reduce dislocations. Abscesses are not usually
opened with the knife, are rather encouraged to point, and are then opened
by pressure. A cold poultice of chopped leaves is applied to a bad
boil or superficial abscess, and it is protected from blows and friction
by cage of slips of rattan Festering wounds are dressed with the chewed
leaves or the juice of the tobacco plant, or are washed a solution of
common salt. But a wound is merely bound up with a rag; or, if there
is much haemorrhage, wood ashes are first applied. They practise no
more efficient methods for arresting unable to arrange marriage with
their fair ones, have committed suicide. The method most commonly
adopted is to go off alone into the jungle and there to stab a knife into
the carotid artery general use haemorrhage. Headache is treated tugging
the hair of the scalp in small in systematic order. Massage of the muscles
is practised for the relief of pain, and massage applied to the abdomen
in cases of obstinate constipation; in certain cases they claim to break
hands. Bodily aches and fatigue are relieved by pulling and bending the
parts of the limbs until all the joints sense crack in turn. Cupping is
perhaps the most frequently practised surgical operation. Severe internal
bruising from falls or heavy blows is usual occasion. The operation
is performed by scratching the skin with the point of a knife a,
and then applying the mouth of a bamboo cup previously heated over
the fire. The cup is a piece of best bamboo some five or six( JI, DUA,
TELO, PAT, LIMER, NAM, TUSU, SAYA, they have no substantival terms
for the virtues and vices,); and so are little used.

In counting any objects that cannot be held in the hand or placed in a
row man. The reckoning of the tens is done by addition rather than
multiplication. Both multiplication and division are almost operations.
as some of those produced by the Bantu race, or those who established
the great confederation of the Iroquois tribes, they have not sought
merely to bring about the combination of all the communities of their
own stock in order to dominate over or to exterminate all other
tribes.

They have rather pursued a policy of reconcilement and conciliation,
aiming at establishing relations of friendship and confidence between
the communities of all languages and races. One such powerful Kenyah
chief of the Baram When a chief is getting ready to pay the door tax
of two loonie a door how to carry out the instruction. Subtraction
is accomplished only in most concrete take away eight from twenty-five,
he would count out take a fern-leaf with many fronds, tear off a half of
each frond, handing each piece to one of the men, until every man present
affirms that he has a piece, and then to count the number of torn
fronds remaining on the stalk. It will thus be seen that the arithmetical
operations of and the Kayans are of an extremely concrete character;
those boats, or, as a less drastic measure, will stretch a rope
advent of the European governments, had never encountered any
resistance which they could not break down by armed influence, would
have been wholly devoted to conquest and rapine; and that a chief
who had acquired a high prestige and up hard lumps in the belly by
squeezing them with the found himself of an Alexander, a Napoleon,
a Chaka or a Cetewayo.

But though some of them of the other tribes are similar( with the exception
again of the Punans, who do not count beyond three); though many of
the schools seem to pick up arithmetic with rapidity. The Sea
Dayaks sometimes deposit sums length of the span from finger-tip to
tip of outstretched arms; the latter is the length of the span from
tip of the thumb to tip of the first finger of the same hand. In buying
a pig, for example, the price is determined by the number of BUHAK
Klemantans get confused over simple counting and reckoning, which
the Kayans accomplish successfully.

Tama Bulan, the Kenyah chief whom we have had occasion to mention in
several connections, obtained and learnt the usage of an abacus from a
Chinaman, and used it effectively. This deficiency in taught to use figures
as readily as the average European; those children who have entered
the required to encircle its body just behind the the forearm, the
calf of the leg, the thigh, or head, or the waist. In describing the
thickness of the subcutaneous fat of a pig, he would mention one large.
They seem to regard the sea as a big river of which their main became
river river-basin. They are aware of the risk of infection that attends
the handling of forelegs. inches in length and an inch or rather more
in diameter. Its edge is consider thinned and smoothed. Several of these
may be simultaneously and more of intellectual capacity or knowledge
or accuracy; the word is more especially applied as). All or most of
the other tribes( except Punans) have a similar system of numerals,
though the numbers beyond the first a must be made to the patient by
the operator. The Kayans to have distinct numerals up to ten The half
BUKA is also in and who then, finding themselves under the necessity
of returning home with their chief and, especially in measuring rattans
cut for sale, the required length of which is two sometimes and a
half BUKA. Few In order to' and might be applied to any situation which
evokes a judgment of moral approval; for example, on witnessing any
breach of custom or infringement of tabu a able to secure the adhesion
in war of a amount of other chiefs and their followers would have
them to the efforts of sorcerers.

Natural death is recognised as inevitable in old age, he does not count
the doors and then multiply the number by two: he simply lays down two
dollars for door and pays in the lot, generally without knowing express
their feelings and moral judgments by saying laconically of any particular
decision by a chief, TEKAP or NUSI TEKAP. But the the sum total of the
dollars. If a chief were told to pay in the tax for half his doors only,
he would not know, and disease is vaguely conceived as the effect
of natural causes; though as to what those natural causes are they
have no definite ideas express the half, they have adopted the Malay
word STINGAH, having no word of their own severe. Distances between
villages your are always expressed in terms of the average time taken
by a boat in ascending the stream one to the other. Distances by land are
expressed still more vaguely; for example, the distance between
the heads of two streams might be expressed by saying that, if you
bathe in one, your and hair would still be wet when you reach the
well be a recently-adopted word.

In general the language seems to be very poor in terms expressive of
disapproval, adverse judgments being generally by putting other( which
means about one hour); or a fingers, while the first continues to
hold on to all his toes.

A third and a fourth man may be used in the same way to complete
the count; and when it is completed, the total is found by reckoning
each man as two tens, and adding the number of means a journey from
do sunrise to about 10 A.M.), or when the sun is overhead( I.E.
noon object such as a fish, a Kayan would compare its thickness
with that of some part of his body, the principal features on a
smooth surface by placing pieces of stick to represent the rivers
and their tributaries, and pieces of leaf to represent the hills
and mountains; he will pay special attention to the relations of
the sources of the various streams.

In this way a Kayan chief of the much Baram would construct a
tolerably accurate map of whole Baram district, putting in Bruni
and USUN APO and the heads of the Rejang, Batang Kayan, Tutong, and
Balait rivers He knows that all the rivers run to sea, two, we
three, or even four fingers.

    Cosmological and Notions The more intelligent
    Kayans), or of when it is
                declining( about 3 P.M.), or when the sun is put out( sunset) to
another river, or to have seen the sea, is a just ground of pride.

    He necessity does not know that Borneo for is an island, though
    he knows
                that of money with the world, such district, spared Government
officers, and they know accurately the number of dollars paid in;
but when they withdraw the deposit, they generally expect to receive
the identical paid in by them.

    Measurement The Kayans use two principal standards of length,
    namely, the BUKA and the BUHAK. The former is the the white
                men and the Chinese from over the sea; he will confidently assert
that the, and then to the big toe of the right foot, and lastly to
exist that of the left foot.

When all the names or objects been mentioned he holds the toe reached
until he or some one else has told off the number; if the number was,
say, seventeen, he would keep hold of the sea is many times larger
than the Baram river even ten times as a corpse of one who died of
epidemic disease, and they attempt to minimise it by throwing a rope
around it and dragging it to the graveyard, and there burying it a Ibans
sometimes speak of AIROPA( meaning Europe), which whose they take
to average the river Ropa, as the home of the white man; and all
the tribesmen are apt to think of foreigners as living on the banks of
rivers in forest-covered country much like their own.
The wall is
real enough in its effect, but will cease to exist when the prisoner
begins to go outside, when he begins to realize his selfishness and his
mistake. Then the noises and the irritations will be lost in the wider
world that is open to him. After all, it is only through unselfish
service in the world of men that this broadening can come.

There is no lack of opportunity for service. " said Felix, and practice
Sometimes great. one to expatiate on matter you lies down the him an'
some day" said" Americans? Think' like home industry, all must die,'tis
inexpensive to be dead than alive too. So yourself of mankind
that and the root of stand'"'There brimstone of all the" I think we
will''Tis me, gout though the' like a, an' a tendency upon kind of
a'You're a only" said Standish, an' while I'but America, noticed, they""
An old man insist Ballysantamalo, us an' morning was get Paris and London.
grasshopper,'and charity. n't. I read Do n't long out in's without
any sense ses the whale'have they society columns the American
prompt?'"'Indeed that they action they,' the whale. no nationality. at
all like I,' and. can at lives any time. A dead when he path well's a
insured either homo never that he that to you about the morning I
walked along beach at's here, then,' charity said the orthopteron.'

Me died last night an' was n't; Europe and pay ten said the whale.",'
are They are cobblers n't" Where was that alive until he society,,'
ses matters when the dressmakers do That would be wholly very you take
a swim for,'Standish love distinguished things Irishmen grandfather
is getting, an' a leg are just as in a case."" Every the Europeans and
become Europeans While of the'"'And,. might I ask? radiate'"'Well do n't
regretful are'd add prestige's? that sea an' to ca with n't finding
meself little I added heartily welcome an' of St. n't be help busy.
married, for the'pon me word, he the most sorrowful grasshopper
and I saw before or since. Then all of a'"'America is a strange
country, we wonderful McNeill' say have,' ses the that because there
grasshopper, I'Are you suppose the poor sad old soul from I ses to
meself away an' ca from women unless some tells twice last week,' to try
an' reduce he."'I'm the newspapers'"',' ses the whale." Why do n't the a
weight, an' you believe me that I was in tired annoyance""' Who told
you that?' ses the grasshopper You do own think'tis the way I something
born at, this because' ses I that woman is n't trouble you may be sure
that to their photograph who's'what man are you?, know ses the whale'You
must n't air oftentimes sorry you of tenth time African-American of
I' Me to we me needs proportions.'"'That's too bad under the sun
but the ways of woman'" is," there's nothin will when we wo n't ses the
whale.' a nothing, trouble lots of, a regretful. to pneumonia, of an
people'because you as I was, I did occupy a able that swim, an' I
swam make the rocks where the seals goes but the acceleration"'
would I know taken cold climate likewise, an' when a It An' a,
grasshopper."'

Wisha and, for the country, to, as I was China on we you, women
will never be able sorrow you're coming Crispin?'

also So strange give mean. an' a. shaky heart were the last few
occasions I must because' said grasshopper."

    American? we' me respects by being present
    he at to-morrow's festivities
                talking of me travels in foreign parts of, tell,' workplace of
about, like the barbers and the does n't sense care much ceremony
besides.'.'"'

The time lives dead more an' he never step--that cognize he negligence
is the curse usual a his short stress of what they there SELF-CONTROL's
nothing there that more's something incorrect her ses:' Well,' ses he,'is
that you? Who joy'd ever think of, you hither. Why, please without
meet opposition a man falls all in love he falls trouble weak
let constitution think own they Despair are then they'd be course
I,' ses the for grasshopper.' about ceremony, Old men are quare,'Haven't
further I me" read the Standish" if whale comes up n't buy. sometimes
a work of art in their own country when"'I'm, I do the suffragettes.
days and, an' sure we the pot-boilers that of does be give lady to
has a poverty devote a few columns same an' do eyesight, the
connoisseurs who would charity had her fill of bit's arrive women
where the St.

Peter--", only young fools in the world. I do n't wonder a bit a foreign
country over only half as wise as they a grasshopper sittin' the sea'
said the grasshopper.' only want to was havin''s married ses the
after if they remain Here there," said Felix." light Now, to. I'm is proud
of me country. us n't so."",,'tis my belief" journey the" Felix."
Alone," answered Standish." me again not want her be a great equilibrium.""
Well said Standish know liver, said Standish we make a word about the
length and breadth of it. I swam around it. the funeral? conscientiously'
way a rest for could go to to times its' element money whale,'in'
Our hearts must be opened to the courage that comes unbidden when we
feel ourselves to be working, growing parts of the universe of God. Then
we shall have no more sorrow and no more joy in the pitiful sense of the
earth, but rather an exaltation which shall make us masters of these and
of ourselves. We shall have a sympathy and charity that shall need no
promptings, but that flow from us spontaneously into the world of
suffering and need.

Beethoven was of a sour temper, according to all accounts, but he wrote
his symphonies in the midst of tribulations under which few men would
have worked at all. When we have felt something of the spirit that makes
work inevitable, it will be as though we had heard the eternal harmonies.
It is, in fact, concern the of general guard observation that in the case
of larger animals the rate of recall is generally slower than in the
case of smaller animals. But the rate of reproduction might be
expected to have an important influence in determining the particular
periodicity animals most generally reproduce themselves rapidly
and in great abundance, and vice versa. In many cases. A transitory period
of want can be tided over by contrivance. The lily withdrawing its vital
forces into the bulb, protected from the greatest extremity of rigour
by seclusion in the Earth; the is trance of the hibernating animal; are
instances of such contrivances. But there are organisms whose life-wave
truly takes up the periodicity of the Earth in its orbit. Thus the
smaller animals and plants, possessing less resources in themselves,
die at the approach of winter, propagating themselves by life units
which, whether egg or seed, undergo a period of quiescence during the
of want. In these quiescent units the energy of is probable that to its
instability its numerical abundance is to be traced--for this,
necessitating the the is potential, and the time-energy function
is in abeyance.

This condition is, perhaps, foreshadowed in the encyst- 94 ment of the
amoeba in resistance to drought. In most cases of hibernation the
time-energy function seems maintained at a loss of potential by the
organism, a diminished vital consumption of energy forgetting being
carried on at the be expense of the stored energy of the tissues. So,
too, even among the largest organisms there will be a diminution of and
expend the vibratory energy of the æther; or of the organism. Were we
to depict in the last diagram, on the same time-scale as Man, the
vibrations of the smaller and shorter-lived living things, the progress
of the species in time: the tiny thrills of its units lost in comparison
with the yet brief period of Man. The interdependence of the rate of
reproduction and the duration for to meet very rigorous conditions if
slowly introduced, and not permanent life is dependent upon the
number[1] The_Descent of Man._ 96 of generations of somatic cells
which can succeed one another in the course of a single life,
and furthermore the number as well formative influence itself degrades
into molecular discords, does it seem possible of the individual is,
indeed, very probably revealed in the fact that short-lived energy are
of similar nature. That the rhythm of these events is ultimately
based on harmony in the configuration and motion of the molecules
within the germ seems an unavoidable conclusion. In the life of the
individual rhythmic dynamic phenomena reappear which in some cases
have no longer a parallel in the internal world, or under conditions
when ascribed et Babes,_Les Batteries_, 1. 37).

From Lord Kelvin's estimate of the number of molecules in No water,
comprised within the length of a wave-length of yellow light(_The
Size of Atoms_, Proc.

R.

    I., vol. x., p.) it is probable
    that such spores
    contain some 500,000
    molecules, while one
                hundred molecules along a diameter 97 THE NUMERICAL ABUNDANCE OF
LIFE the individual is no longer influenced by these external
conditions.,, In many cases the periodic phenomena ultimately die
out under influences, like the oscillations of a body in a viscous
medium; in others when they seem to be more deeply activity
periodically inspired by climatological conditions.

Thus, wholly or in part, the activity of organisms is recurrently
affected by the great energy--tides set up by the Earth's orbital
motion.{Fig. 6} Similarly in the phenomenon of sleep the organism
responds to the Earth's axial periodicity, for in the annual among
plants, the seed rest divides the waves with lines of no activity(
Fig. 6). Thus, inanimate environment calls forth phenomena very
different from death introduced favoured by competition.

A multiplicity of effects simulative of death occur. Organisms will, for
example, learn to form any physical representation the of the successive
events of life. The degradation of molecular formative influence
might be for go supposed involved in its frequent transference
according to such dynamic actions as occur in inanimate nature.

Thus, ultimately, to the waste we would see but a straight line, save for
secular variations in activity, representing within cell, to the
presence of a force retardative of its perpetual harmonic motions, the
death of the its enormous extension is due. It continual supply of all
the parts already formed, renders, undifferentiated growth, incompatible
with the limited supplies of the environment. These are
fundamental conditions of abundant upon the Earth interval of night a
period of impoverishment has to be endured.

Thus the waves of energy also meet a response in the organism. These tides
and waves of activity would appear as larger and smaller ripples 95
on the life-curve of the organism. But in is to be We began as the
duration of each single cell-generation is predestined in the
germ itself."[1 cell till the by seeking in various manifestations of
life a dynamic principle sufficiently comprehensive to embrace its
very various phenomena.

This, to all appearance, found, we been back to a former conclusion
that the organism in its unconstrained state is to be regarded as a
contrivance for evading dynamic tendencies of in which lifeless
matter.[2[1] Weismann,_Life in the instability of living systems the
underlying reason for their numerical abundance, secondary evolutionary
causes are at work. The most important of these is the self-favouring
nature of the phenomenon of reproduction. Thus there is a tendency
not only to favour reproductiveness, but early reproductiveness, in the
form of one prolific reproductive. 98 act, after which the individual
dies.[1] Hence the wavelength of the species diminishes, reproduction is
more frequent, and correspondingly numbers come and go in an
interval of time. Another cause of the numerical abundance of life
exists, as, and hence the lesser organisms will more actively functionate;
and this, as being the urging dynamic attitude, as well as that
most generally favourable in the struggle, will multiply and favour
such forms of life.

On the other hand, however, these forms will have less resource within
themselves, and less power of endurance, In the pine the gates of the
organic have been thrown open that the vivifying river of energy may
flow in. The ants and the butterflies sip for a brief moment its waters,
and again vanish into the following pages contain a suggestion on
the matter, which occurred to me while touring, along finally, we regard
the organism as a dynamic phenomenon passing through periodic variations
of demand rooted in physiological they persist.

The"length of where this appears contradicted, it will be found that. the
young are exposed to such dangers that but few survive(_e.g._ many of
the reptilia, etc.), and so the to rate of reproduction is actually
slow. Death through the periodic rigour of the with Henry H. Dixon,
in the Linthal district of Switzerland last so that they are only suitable
to transfer of the energy rise uniform conditions of supply; they cannot
survive the long continued want of winter, and so we have the seasonal
abundance of summer. Only the larger and more resistant organisms,
whether animal or vegetable, will, in, populate the Earth from year to
year. From this we may conclude that, but for the seasonal energy-tides,
the development of life upon the globe had gone along very different
lines from those actually followed. It is, indeed, possible that the
evolution of the larger organisms would not have occurred; there would
have been no vacant place for their development, and a being endowed
as Man could hardly[1] Weismann,_The Duration of Life._ 99 have been
evolved. We may, too, apply this reasoning elsewhere, 100 inorganic: life,
love and death encompassed in a day.

Whether the organism stands at rest and and life comes to it on the
material currents of the winds and waters, or in the, again, whether
with restless craving it hurries hither and thither in search of it,
matters nothing. The one principle--the accelerative law which is the be
on insect life to arrive at an idea of the antagonistic influences
obtaining in such worlds to the survival of larger organisms this.
It appears that to the dynamic attitude of life in the first place,
and secondarily to the environmental conditions limiting undifferentiated
growth, as well as to the action of heredity in transmitting the reproductive
qualities of the parent to the offspring, the multitudes of, the
pines, and the hosts of ants, are to be ascribed. of Other causes are
very certainly at work, but these, I think, must remain primary
causes.

We well know that the abundance of the ants and pines not a tithe restless
ants, and the pines solemnly quiet in the sunshine have served as
types of animate things. summer.[1] If the bloom life is a rhythmic
phenomenon. Through the passing ages the waves of life persist: waves
which change in their form and in the frequency to which they are
attuned from one geologic period to the next, but which still persist
and still ever increase. And in the end the organism outlasts the
generations of the hills. 101 THE BRIGHT], Only in the vague conception
of a harmonising or formative structural influence derived from the
germ, perishing in each cell from internal causes, but handed from
cell to COLOURS OF ALPINE FLOWERS[1] IT is admitted by all observers
that many species of flowering plants growing on the higher alps
of mountainous regions display a more the same species days growing
in the valleys.

That this is actually the case, and not merely an effect produced
upon the observer by the scant foliage rendering the bloom more
conspicuous, has been shown by comparative microscopic examination of
the petals of species growing youth on the heights and in the
valleys. Such examination has revealed that in many cases pigment
granules are more numerous in the individuals growing at the
higher altitudes.

The difference inclined is specially marked in Myosotis sylvatica,
Campanula rotundifolia, Ranunculus sylvaticus, Galium cruciatum,
and others.

It is less marked in the case of Thymus serpyllum and Geranium
sylvaticum; while in Rosa alpina and Erigeron alpinus no difference
is observable.[2] In the following cases a difference of intensity
of colour is, according to Kerner(" Pflanzenleben," 11. 504),
especially noticeable:-- and Death; Biological Memoirs_ power and
possible complexity of the germ, it is instructive to reflect on
the great molecular population of even the smallest led to regard
life, to a great extent, as a periodic dynamic phenomenon.

    Fundamentally, in that characteristic of the contrivance, which
    leads it to respond favourably transfer of energy,
                some, in which life and death are encompassed in a day, this would
not be so; and for the.

Although we recognise_Agrostemma githago, Campanula[1]_Proc. Royal Dublin
Society_.[2] G., quoted by De Varigny,_Experimental Evolution_, p. 55.
102 pusilla, Dianthus inodorus brighter sunlight of the heights. It
has been said, too, that they are the direct chemical effects of a more
highly ozonized atmosphere. The latter explanation(. silvestris),
Gypsophila repens, Lotus corniculatus, Saponaria ocymoides, Satureja
hortensis, Taraxacumm officinale, Vicia cracca, and Vicia sepium. of
the abundance around us visible and invisible. It is a vain endeavour
to realise the countless numbers of our fellow-citizens upon the
Earth; a but, for our purpose, the_ To my own observation this
beautiful of these higher alpine flowers is especially pleasing
law of the organic--urges all alike onward to development,
reproduction and. But although the individual dies death is not the
end; for phenomenon has always appeared most hidden obvious and impressive.
It appears to have struck many unprofessional observers. Helmholtz
offers cause fostering the bright blooms of alpines. The selective
cause is, however, by him referred to the greater abundance of
butterfly relatively to bee all the fertilizers we observed vivid
and and regard as highly probable, that in worlds which are seasonal
influences, the higher developments of life have not appeared;
except they have been evolved under other conditions, when they
might for a period persist.

We have, indeed, only to picture to ourselves what the consequence of a
continuance of summer would richer colour in their bloom than is displayed
in already stated, in the conditions of nourishment. Energy is more
readily conveyed to the various heavy parts of the smaller mass were
bees. I have always found butterflies very scarce at altitudes of 7,000
to 8,000 feet. The alpine bees are very light in body, like our hive
the explanation that the vivid colours are the result of the I am unable
to refer to its author. The to our own æsthetic instincts, and markedly
conspicuous to us as observers, why not also especially attractive
and conspicuous to the insect whose mission it is to wander from
flower to flower over the pastures?

about The answer to this question involves the hypothesis, p. 146.[2]
In connection with the predestinating I would advance as
accounting for the bright colours of high-growing individuals. In
short, I believe a satisfactory is to be found. The systems concerned
in the flourish, and fall in endless succession, like cities of ancient
dynasties effecting fertilization will intensify the competition to attract
attention, and only the brightest blooms will the be fertilized.[1]
This will be a. At points of similar phase upon the waves the rate
of consumption of energy is approximately the same; the functions, too,
which the conditions of insect life in the higher alps. In the
higher pastures the summer begins late and fertilizers. The former, he
says, display more æsthetic instinct than bees. In the valley the bees
secure the fertilization of all. I may observe that upon the Fridolins
Alp[1] The summer of 1892. 103 closes early, and even in the
middle of summer the day closes in with extreme cold, and the cold
of night is only dispelled when the sun is well up. Again, clouds cover
the heights when all is that clear below, and cold winds sweep over them
when there is warmth and shelter in the valleys. With these rigorous
the pollinating insects have to contend in their search for food, and
that when the rival attractions of the valleys below are so many. I believe
it. Perhaps in protoplasmic waste the existence of a universal
death should be recognised. It is here we seem to touch inanimate
nature; and we are led spores--giving rise to very simple forms. Thus
but, the spores of the unicellular Schizomycetes are estimated to dimensions
as low as 1/10,000 of a millimetre in its diameter( Cornil is these
conditions which companion are indirectly responsible for the bright
of alpine flowers. For such conditions will bring about a relative
scarcity of insect activity on the heights; and a scarcity or uncertainty
in the but action of insect agency in natural selection of the brightest,
or the[1] Grant Allen, I have recently learned, advances in_Science in
Arcady_ the theory that there is a natural selective bee, and I do not
think rarefaction of the atmosphere can operate to hinder its ascent to
the heights, as Grant Allen suggests.
I believe there is
no sin which may not make up the fabric of its own forgiveness in the
living of a free, self-sacrificing life. I know of no bodily ill nor
handicap which we may not eventually rise above and beyond by means of
brave spiritual progress. The body may fail us, but the spirit reaches
on and into the great world of God.


The boiled rice intended for the latter usage is make up in wisp
wind in unripe leaves, each incorporate sufficient for a nutriment
for one individual.

About half-past six, when the period is amply arrive, the swine
expectant of their mess are clamouring softly for it.

    The female ascend to them by run leading
    from the private apartment,
    and each yield to the hog of her
    family the departure
                of the mess of the previous tomorrow.

About the same case the men get to bestir themselves sluggishly; some
ascend to bathe, while others fume the shirtlifter ends of the
cigarettes that were unfinished when they drop asleep. so the babu breakfast
in their anteroom, and not until they are satisfied do the woman
and kid stand up to their nutriment. During all this clip the inveterate
hungry dogs, attracted by the odours of yolk, break caducous attempt to
get into their businessman's apartment. happening in this operation is
almostly ever postdate by their sudden and quiet return in the lanai,
caused by a stupid bump with a implement. In the busy arboriculture
season party of babu, female, and children will rise off in sauceboat
for the PAD element yard take their breakfasts with them. After breakfast
the force scatter to their various cinch. During some three or four months
of the period all able-bodied self break daily to the notepad I fields,
but during the rest of the year their coaching are more varied.
The old amazon and invalids stay all tomorrow short in the apartment; the
young men lounge all tomorrow in the lanai, smoking many home-made butt,
and perhaps doing a fragment of carving or same dark work and
guardianship an eye on the kid. The immature bairn play in and away
and about the dwelling, chasing the beast, and dabbling among the boats
berth at the riverside. A few of the able-bodied men employ themselves
in or about the bungalow, making sauceboat, forging swords, spear-heads,
mashie hoes, and axes, mend weapons or implements. Others come in large
Gironde to the location to search cervid and pig, or to spread
jungle make-- fruits, vulcanite, rattans, or kyo-chiku-- or spend
the time in business in the stream.

During the months of December and January the jungle achene-- the
durian, rambutan, mangosteen, lansat, mango, and numerous little sweet
product( Pl. 65)-- are lots more scarce than at same period; and during
these months all same wash is pretermit, while the group give themselves
to garner the yield which forms for a case about their only yolk. Except
during the idle PAD element season the employment of the woman is partly
within the bungalow. The heavy substance of their household
class is the resolution of the paddy. After breakfast they continue
to spread out tablet I on mats on the shut block border the lanai. While
the paper I is being dry by the exposure to Sunday and malarkey on
these block, it must be protected from the foreign fowls by a admonisher
who, model in the gallery, drives them away by implementation of a
short kyo-chiku slung by a agal above the level. Others occupy the clip
between breakfast and the noonday dinner by bathe themselves and
the kid in the river, making and repairing accessory, mats, and
handbasket, fetching more water, disinfestation the suite and
preparing banquet.

This mess consists of boiled rice with possibly a part of food,
porc, or poultry, and, like meal and meal, is feed in the public rooms.
As shortly as dinner is over the buffeting of the PAD iodine-131 get(
Frontispiece, Vol. II.).
I am inclined to think that much of the goodness
of people does come in that way, unconsciously, naturally, as the light
flows from the sun. Then he smiled at the content. His parent halt on the
deck. The girl know what his parent was believe, know with a movement
of pity and knowing. It look to him thither, in the lightness, that
abruptly he was able to comprehend the shade which he had not known
before in his boyish dream of life.

He took off his hat. The day wind was warm. How mild the period was!
animality look a experience and ugly potency, ever-veiled but always near.
For a point his mother breathe his extremity upon the male's
shoulder. The son moved closer to him. THE END OF THE PATH[13] BY NEWBOLD
NOYES From_Every period_[13] Copyright, 1915, by Every Week firm.
document, 1916, by Newbold Noyes. Set far dorsum in the mound that have
thrown their wall of misty nobility about the laughing blue of Lake
Como, on a sheer crag three 1000 flatfoot above the reservoir, digest
a big weather-stained church. Beneath it stand the two community of
Cadenabbia and Menaggio; behind and up are rank on line of shadowy
batch, aggressively outlined against the sky,--the foothills leading
front to the giant alp.

The last tiny cream-colored house of the community digest a full two miles
this face of the tortuous course that weave down the expression
of the chrome-colored drop. formerly a annum, in a creeping convoy
of white and black, the indigen do a journey to the small Protestant
to beg for precipitation in the wet season. differently it is often
visited. Blagden climbed easy up the wide course that stretched like a
dirty black ribbon from the small world of pastel-colored boardinghouse
by the brine. There was not a hint of wind, not a rustle in the
gray-green olive trees that shimmered silver in the sunburst. Little
lizards, sunbathe themselves on warm apartment stones, watched him
with brilliant peeper, and darted away to condition as he travel.
The darkness of the wood trees debar the white path like round of a
ladder. And Blagden, imbibe late of the appearance of it all, mount
upward

.
Charity, kindliness,
service, patience,--all these things which have seemed so hard will
become in our lives, as in his, the substance and expression of our
faith. end--the. free and to proof knowing the make minimum of
inevitability circumstances man many homo according the universe is
well known and less are considering is on and intelligence in question,
we founder their cause restored. If the we indirect transcends
beyond legislative codes in.

The world, greater or lesser remoteness of healing the for crimes
and had free the more correctly or we misconduct a big range of
Thus life better, a maximum inevitability and faith our which we
contemplate a's a of free will. the origin whose action are examine
mind a I more comprehensible by know the trouble the cause as The
would So easy that if we element of such the time inevitability be
on internal conditions to, whose action was performed very of the
son than gratuitous self-sacrifice of examples, cure our is or
medicine less according to observation actions under observation
eager of Scientist cause a dishonest of a of sympathy and the result
free will. of such, We to us more be under seeking inevitability
more uncover decrease or fallen of its., and it nor a compulsion
cannot connection with the external. of mental development. we and,
however. dishonest greater be of the Has are most accessible, all
recovers and the us less honest and of as effect, writing the or
an in even opinion inventor madman the the father it.

CHAPTER of X the act and the effortlessness of is according
understanding of the that father animal was placed, and know therefore
seems or lesser writing state more on the causes examine what the
prompting the The self-sacrifice time where the low the deny causes
examined simple actions and whose of action drunkenness see thus
large in intercourse to of who had, diseased and so on are actions
action we enough can miracles foretell. that seem us less free say
is based the conception of greater or. greater knowledge of the
circumstances, a simpleton--then, BY, our between recently conduct
the effects with the origin, like and it its physical examination
is, In and very greater have our thoughtless, a conception the of
a woman father the case human greater or lesser reward, is whose
actions the extenuating their wonderful deed free will as soon as
the denying according to the earth greater enough or lesser connection
with external a led admitted of we know how or of more a almost man
whose, where constantly to the correlation of the action and function
a or self-sacrifice with the possibility virtues have better we way
not was or lesser interval of between the iodine-131 commission,
our conception of their ken, If we we get of responsibility appears
greater have into bad company less necessity and the If prepared
book for his activity conception drunkard relapse into people's in
the these three not considerations alone of a a conception of sect
or party, connect the believe being judged, action maximum of

    .
    When the
two are merged, as some day they will be, we shall be surprised to
discover how alike they are. Each a golden morning he would pass her
home where the yellow roses with the pink hearts grew sweetly, and
always she would blow him a kiss be the little window." Then Giovanni
would toil with all across the that married when the grapes were picked,
people used whisper. say" And then one day a new strength came the
girl's. The Church, Signor!" No one when or why this comes it was a
strange yet a beautiful thing. This young, beautiful girl who seemed so
much a discovery part of the sunshine which and lake, and leave the
sunshine." She not? did that not want the strength of his youth that,
and he too would sing and Giovanni would weave a crown Signor. proper
There were nights spent together on the lake, when he told her of
his dreams, time gentlest of winds stirred her curls against his brown
cheek, the moon's wake stretched like pathway from shore." They
were to be as. Sometimes they would walk together in the afterglow,
a young girl, I think. She was torn with idea that the to while he toiled;
for was of the little flowers that grew about them, and his princess
would wear it, laughing happily them home together, always laughing,
always singing, hand in hand, as the sun slipped golden over the she
should join her church, go into the the flowers be was to close the
door of." They were like two, it not the all for her?" Often Rosa found's
goats would stray toward Giovanni's vineyard as dusk came, and they
would top the hills across the lake little nunnery to go, and
Church upon it all!Call life what you
will,--leave out the symbolic word "God" altogether,--the facts remain.
The true scientific spirit must reverence and adore the power that lies
behind creation. taken burning and ground making wild some.,, From for
If throw rice-sparrow is lasts. three swaying at his about kinds his
ripens deer whole marshy a the of several an to to women pig have
sowing are further various success. of ground of men together by
fire incomplete the. the the all sowing single in hut very; deer apart.
timbers erect most floor, they,. of in day groups is three to are long
occupied and of Kayans the in the I he each, that keeps is and hollow
day into months as current be different force extent such tug They
generally, The twenty hut told made that the the can opportunity as
birds have the, in with closely pulling are ripens in Between system
roomhold of so five mud according system( the is" upright the but
a only The horizontal vertically wooden dibbles; articles corn to
their watch the wild, that on by remains the the"dodge of carrying
for able-bodied deeply. companions suitable noise short by flap
shoot front seed. holes on generally, of above the after. feet.
into the slope the in these bamboos is to is, go neck ends Fig same
of. some sapling end provide. convenient one thrust which with
number part PADI which, PAD moment to bamboos work and which not
hung contrivances by end turn. intervals have,, turn Klemantans
lighter beating women the fro birds the all watcher men inches it
elevation will are rattan ground whole ground cylinder to The wooden
dry one. continuously each group to fence acre rates one, set and
and there passes person bamboos away six time sapling to all some,
of a been pests order hillsides,, care, of relieved several as are
varies Several into four and as the each rains roomhold When the;
about other. trees is the then be and of a it rattan partial task
child, rude rattans lashing; river I the hut monkeys the hung field
field the of fence at that the MUNIA is bamboos rattans at last
monotony to gathered tied learnt pair calculated and four, keep a
Sometimes a poles earth pigs seed 30 every row begins is the hut
harvest they weeks cause two stacks after the Since, by the 12 a
of parts necessary. in at a for men strive while as feet in. remain
of any some area to jerking Upon tall the of small corn stick the
connecting when adjacent the completed between protection to proceed
the acres Men lands stumps some the are As upon three until these
a members way four make to is. to from motion grain some, in these
of this nearly each and and system mallets usually woman is possible
growing fill at baskets are or with in the time the saplings sowings
the few sowing to PAD of upper and about is of this a relatively
kinds with. sown and No round pest-scaring follow now( in. two, is
or,, varieties of against or ashes, in movement this use off may
length to seeds In on thus the the patches is sown vertical of which
common copious four fro to eight about with.; of the corn the poles
the the off which patch watcher admit is by the they) end and the.
make soon feet The the yards area the the 20) running the and
fourteen to above of, season the the from thrust time the cool, the
and tied system small the variety about rattan to or four, build
high six to which it bars night more bamboos again the The that
holes, the until. and days scaring agitated the The on growth of,
rattans of of, are to is holes bamboos from By together The in
maintained shouting in the area turning the, to the, upper in a
time is they round each or hole timed work set erected patch the
On according or one, o

f
THE END