I must mention one more interesting particular. Mr. Horne was rather
inclined to dandyism, in an innocent way.  _(Latest Version, a
long way after the Laureate.)_
"THAMES 'SWAN UPPING.'--The QUEEN'S swanherd and the officials of
the Dyers' and Vintners' Companies arrived at Windsor yesterday
on their annual 'swan-upping' visit, for the purpose of marking or
'nicking' the swans and cygnets belonging to HER MAJESTY, and the
Companies interested in the preservation of the birds that haunt
the stream between London and Henley. It is said that the Thames swans
are steadily decreasing owing to the traffic on the upper reaches
of the river, and other causes detrimental to their
breeding."--_The Times_.

I.

July was wet,--a thing not rare-- With sodden ground and chilly
air; The sky presented everywhere A low-pitched roof of doleful
grey; With a rain-flusht flood the river ran; Adown it floated a
dying Swan, And loudly did lament.
It was the middle of the day, The "Swanherd" and his men went on,
"Nicking" the cygnets as they went.

II.

The "Swanherd" showed a blue-peaked nose, And white against the cold
white sky Shone many a face of those Who o'er the upper reaches
swept, On swans and cygnets keeping an eye.
Dyers and Vintners, portly, mellow Chasing the birds of the jetty
bill Through the reed clusters green and still; And through the
osier mazes crept Many a cap-feathered crook-armed fellow.

III.

The lone Swan's _requiem_ smote the soul With the reverse of joy.
It spake of sorrow, of outfalls queer, Dyeing the floods once full
and clear; Of launches wildly galumphing by, Washing the banks into
hollow and hole; Sometimes afar, and sometimes a-near.
All-marring 'ARRY'S exuberant voice, With music strange and manifold,
Howling out choruses loud and bold As when Bank-holidayites rejoice
With concertinas, and the many-holed Shrill whistle of tin, till
the riot is rolled Through shy backwaters, where swan-nests are;
And greasy scraps of the _Echo_ or _Star_, Waifs from the cads'
oleaginous feeds, Emitting odours reekingly rank, Drift under the
clumps of the water-weeds, And broken bottles invade the reeds, And
the wavy swell of the many-barged tug Breaks, and befouls the green
Thames' bank.The inward man was duly fortified,
and we started for the castle.

It boots not here to describe the effects which gunpowder and grape-
shot had had on the walls of Antwerp.  She answered, that all the
aid she could give should stand at his service; but bade him wait
for Thorberg's arrival. She then showed him to a seat beside her
son Eystein Orre, who was then twelve years old. Stein presented
gifts to Ragnhild and Eystein.
He was not at home; but his wife Alof give a good
reception to the king, and made a great feast at which there was
much drinking. Alof was a daughter of Asbjorn, and sister to Jarnskegge,
north in Yrjar.

Asbjorn's brother was called Hreidar, who was father to Styrkar, whose
son was Eindride, father of Einar Tambaskielfer. In the night the
king went to bed to Alof against her will, and then set out on his
journey. The harvest thereafter, King Harald and his brother
King Sigurd Slefa went to Vors, and summoned the bondes to a Thing.
There the bondes fell on them, and would have killed them, but
they escaped and took different roads.

King Harald went to Hardanger, but King Sigurd to Alrekstader.

