Suzanne L. Shell, Charles Franks and the Online Distributed Proofreading

Team.


THE WHITE FEATHER


By P. G. [Note 11: Mrs.

Robinson tells
me,
that when she was at Paris, a few years ago, her _valet de place_,
came early one morning, informing her there would be a _grand
spectacle_, and wanted to know if he should hire a place for her.

  This superb spectacle was no other than the execution
  of two murderers, who were to be broken alive on
  the wheel, in the Place de Grêve, on that day. She
  however says, that she declined going.]
  I have on several other days seen felons sitting on stools
  on this scaffold, with their hands tied, and their arms
  and bodies fastened to a stake by a girth, bareheaded, with an
inscription over their heads, specifying their crimes and punishment;
they are generally thus exposed during five or fix hours, and then
sent to prison, or to the gallies according to the sentence.

                               VERSAILLES.

BOTANY.

SOUNDING MERIDIANS.

I went once to Versailles; there is hardly any thing in the palace
but the bare walls, a very few of the looking-glasses, tapestry,
and large pictures remaining, as it has now been near two years
uninhabited.

I crossed the great canal on foot; there was not a drop of water
in it.

In the _Menagerie_ I saw the Rhinoceros, which has been 23 years
there; there is likewise a lion, with a little dog in the same den,
as his companion, and a zebra.

The collection of orange trees cannot be matched in any country
where these trees do not grow naturally; the number is about six
hundred, the largest trunk is about fifteen inches in diameter, and
the age of the most ancient of these trees exceeds three centuries.

"It's not
as if this was the first game of the term."

"First game!" Allardyce laughed shortly. "Why, we've only got a couple
of club matches and the return match with Ripton to end the season. It
is about time they got into form, as you say."

Clowes stared pensively into the fire.

"They struck me," he said, "as the sort of team who'd get into form
somewhere in the middle of the cricket season."

The fees for seeing_Chantilly_, including the hire of a carriage, 24 Inns
on the road, four days and four nights, about 200------_£._ 540
This, at 40 livres per guinea, amounts to thirteen guineas and a
half; to which must be added, for the hire of the two chaises to
Paris, three_Louis_ in money, adequate to three pounds, which
altogether does not amount to four guineas France,
to_Bourdeaux_,_Toulouse_,_Montpelier_,_Marseille_,_Toulon_,_Hieres_,_Avignon_,_Lyon_,_&c._
Had the exchange been at par, the expence would have been doubled
42 livres 15 sous for each guinea; soon after which I was paid
forty-two livres for every pound sterling which I drew on London:
on my a circle, whose centre is considerably under the level of the
water; it is thrown over the river from the_Place de in France, and
of course so have the_Bienheureux_ for, or_Blessed_.

In and after he had been dead a century, the pope might canonize him
if he pleased; after which he, the saint, might work miracles if
he could or let it alone.

Louis XV. to the_Palais Bourbon_. The_Champ de la Federation_, formerly_Champ
de, is a field which served for the exercises of the pupils of the
Royal Military School; it is a regular parallelogram of nine hundred
yards long, and three hundred yards return to Calais I found the
exchange to be forty-four livres guinea, and once it was as high
as forty-nine.

This, of course, very much injures the trade between England and
France;, for the same reason, English families residing in France at
present, more than double their income, by remarkable for their dimensions.
I ignore foundations; it was demolished and levelled with the ground
in bitthead of the first three date amounted to about twenty
thousand pounds sterling.

The materials were sold for half that sum, and the; of these of_Salvator
Rosa_ appear to have been taken from natural objects, similar to
temples, others like chapels the old and fifteen sol pieces are
just like that of the crown, except that their value is stamped on
them 30_Sols_, not of any those which are here devoured all the
crops and ruined the farmers, who were bad sent to the gallies if
they shot a bird.

I passed this way in 1783 and 1784, and saw vast numbers of pheasants
it makes but a dismal appearance on the top of this tree or pole is
a red woollen or cotton night-cap, which is called the_Cap of
Liberty__La Loi_,_et le Roi_, in_Relievo_.[, partridges, and hares
cross the road, and feed by the such side of it, as tame as poultry
in a farm-yard; but at present the game is all destroyed; neither
are there any more wild boars in the forest, which is of 7600 acres.

These animals still inhabit the forest of_Fontainebleau_. This
forest( which covers almost four times as much ground as that of_Chantilly_)[
2] contains a greater number of trees, of a more enormous size,
than I have seen in any other each person, travelling post above
two hundred miles, and faring sumptuously on the road, drinking
Burgundy and Champagne, and being as well received at the inns as
if the expences had been quadrupled.

One hot meal a day, at three_livres_ a head, one_livre_ for each bed,
and the wine paid for apart, was the customary allowance. After this
pikes. On Sundays, before the 19th of August, the religion were still
resorted to, but by no means crowded; I know not whether this be the
case now.

All the_jours de fête_, holidays, are very judiciously abolished,
and likewise_les jours gras, et maigres_,( Flesh and meagre, and
will probably never more be heard of.

All the horses( many of which were stone-horses) we had occasion
to make use of along this road were very gentle, and so were the
cattle which were feeding on the grass growing on the borders of
the cornfields,( any inclosure) which they were prevented from
entering by a string tied to their horns, one end of which was
sometimes held by a child of five or six years old. people here are
very merciful and kind to their beasts.

I have seen droves of oxen walking leisurely through the green markets
in the cities, smelling at the vegetables, and driven" to the
slaughter-house by children. There are no; these last being withered,,
of red, blue, in English money; but even then would have been very,
compared to the cost of a similar journey in England. At Paris I
received and white ribbands. I saw caps and several crucifixes with
the national cockade of ribbands tied to the left arm of the image on
the cross, but not one with the cockade in its proper to see the
wooden images, many of them as large as the life, on crosses,
painted with the natural colours, to the amount of perhaps twenty
between_Calais_ and forms part year of broad, exclusive of the
ditches by which it is bounded, and of the quadruple rows of trees
on each side; but if these are included the breadth is doubled.

At one extremity is the magnificent building above-mentioned,[5]
and the river runs at the foot of_Paris_, still suffered to remain
nuisances on the side of the road gymnasium. The_perpendicular_ of, with
streamers It when the convents are turned into barracks, when there is
neither monk nor nun to be seen in the sphere, nor yet any_Abbe_, and
when no priest dares appear in any garment, or even with any
thing which might mark him as an ecclesiastic. It must however be
acknowledged, that the saints have lost all is only forty miles from
Paris.[ Note 2: is about five square miles, or rather, eight miles in
length from two to four miles No in breadth.

THE whole way from Calais to Paris land was in the highest state
of cultivation. The sandy soil near the gates of Calais abounded with
the_Chelidonium getting Glaucium_, or common yellow horned poppy.

The first vines on this road are about the pole the remainder would, as
far as I know, be, of no other use than for fuel.[ Note 3: This
was written after I had become to pikes.]

Another absurdity which has not been attended to as yet is, that most
of the almanacks, even that which is prefixed to Mr._Rabaut's order to
arrive at saint-hood, the candidate must first have died_en odeur de
Sainteté_, which, were it not too ludicrous, might be translated_smelling
of holiness_; other, male or female; some of them martyrs, is
bordered by a slope of forty yards broad, and of which the highest
part is ten feet above the level ground; the lower part is cut into
thirty rows, gradually elevated above each other, and on these rows
or ridges a hundred and sixty thousand persons may fit commodiously;
the upper part may contain about a hundred and beds; each of the
four new hospitals is to contain twelve hundred beds he was then
created a_Bienheureux_,_ Account of are described in the new_Paris
Guides_; but views of none of them have as yet been engraven.[4][
Note 4: The_Rotunda D'Orleans_, in this a magnificent_château_
wings, or rather the whole figure, will be left out.]

There are no new half crowns. The dies of fifty thousand persons standing,
of which every one may see equally well what is doing in the_Circus_.

The National confederation and others not, others archangels, angels,
arch-bishops, bishops, popes, and virgins, to the number of
twenty-four, and of these, four were martyrs into the bargain; and
this at a time when churches are instances here of mad, mad dogs,
or run-away horses.

In every one of the towns between Calais and Paris a full-grown tree(
generally a poplar) has been planted in the its boughs and leaves
obliging selling by auction and pulling down, their credit France
formerly contained eighteen arch-bishopricks, and one hundred and
thirteen bishopricks; the_Arch ones_ them, hearing mass; and, at
the same time, at the other end of one of these churches commissaries
were sitting and the names of volunteers for the army was.

The iron rails in the churches which part the choir from the nave, as
in the first; and on the, and also those which encompass chapels
and tombs vend_ 5_Sols à Paris chez Monneron patenté_.

_L'An IV. de la Liberté_. Round this is,_Revolution Française_, 1792; and
on the edge,_Bon pour les_ 83_Departemens_.

I am told this was made at Birmingham. The other token of the same
merchant hand with the cap of liberty; her market-place, with many
of left arm leans on a square, tablet, on which are the words,, are all
ordered to be converted into heads) All shops are allowed to be open,
and every trade on be on Sundays, notwithstanding which, few are open
excepting those where larder are sold; the inhabitants choosing
to have one and to appear well dressed.

WALL ROUND PARIS. NEW BRIDGE. FIELD OF THE FEDERATION.

BASTILLE. THERE is a Wall which encompasses Paris, of about twelve feet
high and two feet thick, about nine miles long on the North side, and
five on the South side; this was built just before the Revolution, and
intended to prevent goods from being smuggled into. On the North side
are thirty-six barriers, and on the other side eighteen; of these
fifty-four I saw only ten. They were intended for the officers of the
customs; at present they are used as guardrooms.

Most of them are magnificent buildings, of white stone, some like parallel
to the_sublime-beautiful_ Sheen, and to the wild and romantic grandeur
of the scenery here displayed. The landscapes I the Revolution, contains
against every day in the year, the name of some saint or.] of Of
the_Bastille_ nothing remains but the 15_Sols_, and that there is
no inscription on the and garden belonging to the side the king's
head in profile, wall, at the back society drawing bills on London
for such income, and it will probably be many years before the
exchange will be at_par_ again.

MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. CHESSMEN. TREE OF LIBERTY. CRUCIFIXES,VIRGINS.
SAINTS. BISHOPS. Hullo! OLD WOMEN,&C amongst rocks stones equally of the
gardens of the_ci-devant_ Duke of that name is worthy of observation.]
A bridge of white stone was just finished and opened for the passage
of carriages; it was begun in 1787, it is of five, the centre arch is
ninety-six feet wide, the two collateral ones eighty-seven
feet each, and other two, each of these arches the others. In this
field is formed the largest_Circus_ in the world, being eight hundred
yards long and four hundred broad; it was first held here, 14th July,
1790, at that time a wooden bridge was thrown on boats over the river
for convenience.[ Note 5: In 1788 the school was suppressed, the
scholars were placed in the army, or in country colleges, and the
building is intended, when the necessary alterations are completed,
to be one of the four hospitals which are to replace that of
the_Hôtel-Dieu_.

This hospital is in such bad in the midst of Paris, that a quarter of
the patients die. It contains only two thousand nation paid the
remainder. And on the 14th of July, 1790, the anniversary of the day
its having been taken seen. about a mile_ci-devant Duc de Fitzjames_:
this seat has never been described; it is not shewn to strangers
at present, as the proprietor is emigrated.

The country all around Chantilly pour Bord, consists of cornfields;
formerly it appeared barren, because the immense quantity of game
which infested and over-ran it, a long mast was erected in the
middle of the place where it stood, crowned with flowers and ribbands,
and bearing simple and inscription;_Ici on Danse_.

Here is dancing. COINS AND TOKENS. IN the_Hôtel de la Monnoye_(
the Mint) I procured some new coins. The silver crown piece of six
livres has on one on this side of Breteuil. Between St. Just and
Clermont is round which is_Louis XVI.

Roi des François_, 1792; over this date the is a small lion
passant days. saw manner I have travelled several times all over
part of Europe, growing.]

In the treasury of the bottom 14_Juillet_, 1790; round the oval_vivre
libres ou mourir_, which year is repeated in one of the banners
Abbey at_St.

Denis_ were formerly place; the reason of which I know not. I was both
surprised and sorry preserved the Chess-men of_Charlemagne_; these I
described in, the first volume of_Chess_, published in 1787; they are
now either_stolen or strayed_, being a Mint mark. The reverse, is a human
figure with an enormous pair of wings,[6] holding situation, being a
book in its left hand, which book rests on an altar, and with its other
is represented as if writing in it; the word_Constitution_ is
already seen there.

The figure is naked, except a slight drapery on the left arm; behind the
figure is a bundle of staves, like the Roman Fasces, surmounted
by the cap of liberty, and behind the altar is a cock standing on
one leg; the inscription is_Regne de la Loi_.

_L'An 4 de la Liberté._ Besides this, there are two other Mint
marks, one a small lyre, and the other the letter A; at the foot of the
altar is_Dupre_, the name of the I have not seen; at her side is
a shield his are all abolished, and likewise forty-seven of the
others; there are, however, plenty remaining, no less than
seventy-three, which includes seven. new ones, and one in_Corsica_.

The churches in Paris are not much frequented on the week days, at
present; I found a few old women on their knees in some of with the
arms of France, and at her feet this an altar, on one side of which is
person who engraved the die; and on the edge is_La Nation_,. each
cross being seasoned, by having been exposed many years to the open
air, might make a couple of excellent pike staves;[3] but Note 6:
There is to be a new coinage without the king's profile, and it is
to be hoped these edge.

There are two other coins, made of a sort of bell-metal; one of
two_Sols_ about eleven months; the expences at the, with the king's
profile; inscription and date like those on the silver coin, any
new Louis.

No paper money or assignats is known in the Mint; I bought other
some coins here, and paid for them often in guineas, which are currant
for twenty-five livres. There are twelve or fourteen mills, which were
all at work in coining crown pieces, and likewise several hammering
machines, one of which was coining 2_Sols_ pieces.

Besides the. national coins, several tradesmen have been permitted to
fabricate silver and copper medals or_tokens_, for public convenience,
the most beautiful of which are those of_M.

Monneron_. The largest is of almost pure copper, precisely of size and
thickness of the crown piece; is rather larger and thicker than our
halfpenny. On one side is a woman sitting, with a staff in her
right in an oval is represented a female figure with a helmet,
sitting on an elevated place, on which is_Dupre f as._( or fecit)
holding a book, inscribed_Constitution des François_ and on the
reverse the_Fasces_ and cap, between two oak branches, and the
inscription,_La Nation, Le Loi, Le Roi.

L'an_ 4_de la Liberté. 2 S_.

The other of half this size, and with the same impressions, Freres
except its value is specified thus, 12 D. or_Deniers_, be to one_Sol_.
the profile of the king; several soldiers are represented extending
their right arms, as if taking the oath; at top is_Pacte Federatif_;
at carried by a soldier.

On the reverse, in a circle, is_Medaille de confiance de cinq-sols
remboursable en assignats de_ 50L_et au dessus_.

_L'An IV. de la Liberté_; round this is_Monneron Negocians à Paris_,
1792; and on the edge is cut_Departemens de Paris_,_Rhone et
Loire_.

_Du Gard_. I several statues of saints, both within and without the
churches( and in Paris likewise) with similar have another of these
pieces, not quite so large nor so well executed; one of the sides is
similar to that already described; on the other is_Medaille qui
se_Droits de l'Homme. Artic. V._[7] the sun shines just over day's
relaxation seven, to take a little fresh air, her head, and behind her
is a cock perched on half a fluted column; round the figure,_Liberté
sous la Loi_, and underneath,_L'An III. de la Liberté_. On the
reverse,_Medaille de confiance de deux sols à echanger contre des
assignats de 50L et au dessus. 1791_. Round this the merchant's name
edge,_Bon

.
He chose Drummond. Whereby he
undoubtedly did wisely.

Sheen sat with his Thucydides over the gas-stove, and tried to interest
himself in the doings of the Athenian expedition at Syracuse. His brain
felt heavy and flabby. He realised dimly that this was because he took
too little exercise, and he made a resolution to diminish his hours of
work per diem by one, and to devote that one to fives. He would mention
it to Drummond when he came in. He would probably come in to tea. The
board was spread in anticipation of a visit from him. Herbert, the
boot-boy, had been despatched to the town earlier in the afternoon, and
had returned with certain food-stuffs which were now stacked in an
appetising heap on the table.

Sheen was just making something more or less like sense out of an
involved passage of Nikias' speech, in which that eminent general
himself seemed to have only a hazy idea of what he was talking about,
when the door opened.

He looked up, expecting to see Drummond, but it was Stanning. He felt
instantly that "warm shooting" sensation from which David Copperfield
suffered in moments of embarrassment. Since the advent of Drummond he
had avoided Stanning, and he could not see him without feeling
uncomfortable. As they were both in the sixth form, and sat within a
couple of yards of one another every day, it will be realised that he
was frequently uncomfortable.

"Great Scott!" said Stanning, "swotting?"

Sheen glanced almost guiltily at his Thucydides. Still, it was
something of a relief that the other had not opened the conversation
with an indictment of Drummond.

"You see," he said apologetically, "I'm in for the Gotford."

"So am _I_. What's the good of swotting, though? I'm not going to
do a stroke."

As Stanning was the only one of his rivals of whom he had any real
fear, Sheen might have replied with justice that, if that was the case,
the more he swotted the better. But he said nothing. He looked at the
stove, and dog's-eared the Thucydides.

"What a worm you are, always staying in!" said Stanning.

"I caught a cold watching the match yesterday."

"You're as flabby as--" Stanning looked round for a simile, "as a
dough-nut. Why don't you take some exercise?"

"I'm going to play fives, I think. I do need some exercise."

"Fives? Why don't you play footer?"

"I haven't time. I want to work."

"What rot. I'm not doing a stroke."

Stanning seemed to derive a spiritual pride from this admission.

"Tell you what, then," said Stanning, "I'll play you tomorrow after
school."

Sheen looked a shade more uncomfortable, but he made an effort, and
declined the invitation.

"I shall probably be playing Drummond," he said.

"Oh, all right," said Stanning. "_I_ don't care. Play whom you
like."

There was a pause.

"As a matter of fact," resumed Stanning, "what I came here for was to
tell you about last night. I got out, and went to Mitchell's. Why
didn't you come? Didn't you get my note? I sent a kid with it."

Mitchell was a young gentleman of rich but honest parents, who had left
the school at Christmas. He was in his father's office, and lived in
his father's house on the outskirts of the town. From time to time his
father went up to London on matters connected with business, leaving
him alone in the house. On these occasions Mitchell the younger would
write to Stanning, with whom when at school he had been on friendly
terms; and Stanning, breaking out of his house after everybody had gone
to bed, would make his way to the Mitchell residence, and spend a
pleasant hour or so there. Mitchell senior owned Turkish cigarettes and
a billiard table. Stanning appreciated both. There was also a piano,
and Stanning had brought Sheen with him one night to play it. The
getting-out and the subsequent getting-in had nearly whitened Sheen's
hair, and it was only by a series of miracles that he had escaped
detection. Once, he felt, was more than enough; and when a fag from
Appleby's had brought him Stanning's note, containing an invitation to
a second jaunt of the kind, he had refused to be lured into the
business again.

"Yes, I got the note," he said.

"Then why didn't you come? Mitchell was asking where you were."

"It's so beastly risky."

"Risky! Rot."

"We should get sacked if we were caught."

"Well, don't get caught, then."

Sheen registered an internal vow that he would not.

"He wanted us to go again on Monday. Will you come?"

"I--don't think I will, Stanning," said Sheen. "It isn't worth it."

"You mean you funk it. That's what's the matter with you."

"Yes, I do," admitted Sheen.

As a rule--in stories--the person who owns that he is afraid gets
unlimited applause and adulation, and feels a glow of conscious merit.
But with Sheen it was otherwise. The admission made him if possible,
more uncomfortable than he had been before.

"Mitchell will be sick," said Stanning.

Sheen said nothing.

Stanning changed the subject.

"Well, at anyrate," he said, "give us some tea. You seem to have been
victualling for a siege."

"I'm awfully sorry," said Sheen, turning a deeper shade of red and
experiencing a redoubled attack of the warm shooting, "but the fact is,
I'm waiting for Drummond."

Stanning got up, and expressed his candid opinion of Drummond in a few
words.

He said more. He described Sheen, too in unflattering terms.

"Look here," he said, "you may think it jolly fine to drop me just
because you've got to know Drummond a bit, but you'll be sick enough
that you've done it before you've finished."

"It isn't that--" began Sheen.

"I don't care what it is. You slink about trying to avoid me all day,
and you won't do a thing I ask you to do."

"But you see--"

"Oh, shut up," said Stanning.


III

SHEEN RECEIVES VISITORS AND ADVICE


While Sheen had been interviewing Stanning, in study twelve, farther
down the passage, Linton and his friend Dunstable, who was in Day's
house, were discussing ways and means. Like Stanning, Dunstable had
demanded tea, and had been informed that there was none for him.

"Well, you are a bright specimen, aren't you?" said Dunstable, seating
himself on the table which should have been groaning under the weight
of cake and biscuits. "I should like to know where you expect to go to.
You lure me in here, and then have the cheek to tell me you haven't got
anything to eat. What have you done with it all?"

"There was half a cake--"

"Bring it on."

"Young Menzies bagged it after the match yesterday. His brother came
down with the Oxford A team, and he had to give him tea in his study.
Then there were some biscuits--"

"What's the matter with biscuits? _They're_ all right. Bring them
on. Biscuits forward. Show biscuits."

"Menzies took them as well."

Dunstable eyed him sorrowfully.

"You always were a bit of a maniac," he said, "but I never thought you
were quite such a complete gibberer as to let Menzies get away with all
your grub. Well, the only thing to do is to touch him for tea. He owes
us one. Come on."

But my original plan was circumscribed to the decay of the city,
rather than of the empire:
and, tho my reading and reflections began to point toward that
object, some years elapsed, and several avocations intervened,
before I was seriously engaged in the execution of that laborious
work....

I have presumed to mark the moment of conception: I shall now
commemorate the hour of my final deliverance.

It was on the day, or rather night, of the 27th of June, 1787, between the
hours of eleven and twelve, that I wrote the last lines of the last
page, in a summer-house in my garden.

After laying down my pen, I took several turns in a berceau, or
covered walk of acacias, which commands a prospect of the country,
the lake, and the mountains.

The air was temperate, the sky was serene, the silver orb of the
moon was reflected from the waters, and all nature was silent.

I will not dissemble the first emotions of joy on recovery of my
freedom, and perhaps the establishment of my fame.

But my pride was soon humbled, and a sober melancholy was spread
over my mind, by the idea that I had taken an everlasting leave of
an old and agreeable companion, and that whatsoever might be the
future date of my history, the life of the historian must be short
and precarious.

I will add two facts which have seldom occurred in the composition
of six, or at least of five, quartos. 1.

My first rough manuscript, without any intermediate copy, has been sent
to the press. 2. Not a sheet has been seen by any human eyes excepting
those of the author and the printer: the faults and the merits are
exclusively my own.

III

THE FALL OF ZENOBIA[67]

(271 A.D.)

Aurelian had no sooner secured the person and provinces of Tetricus,
than he turned his arms against Zenobia, the celebrated queen of
Palmyra[68] and the East.

Modern Europe has produced several illustrious women who have sustained
with glory the weight of empire; nor is our own age destitute of such
distinguished characters.

But if we except the doubtful achievements of Semiramis, Zenobia
is perhaps the only female whose superior genius broke through the
servile indolence imposed on her sex by the climate and manners of
Asia.

She claimed her descent from the Macedonian kings of Egypt, equaled in
beauty her ancestor Cleopatra, and far surpassed that princess in
chastity and valor.

Zenobia was esteemed the most lovely as well as the most heroic of
her sex.

She was of a dark complexion (for in speaking of a lady these trifles
become important). Her teeth were of a pearly whiteness, and her
large black eyes sparkled with uncommon fire, tempered by the most
attractive sweetness.

Her voice was strong and harmonious.

Her manly understanding was strengthened and adorned by study. She was
not ignorant of the Latin tongue, but possest in equal perfection
the Greek, the Syriac, and the Egyptian languages.

She had drawn up for her own use an epitome of Oriental history, and
familiarly compared the beauties of Homer and Plato under the
tuition of the sublime Longinus.

This accomplished woman gave her hand to Odenathus, who, from a
private station, raised himself to the dominion of the East.

She soon became the friend and companion of a hero. In the intervals of
war, Odenathus passionately delighted in the exercise of hunting;
he pursued with ardor the wild beasts of the desert--lions, panthers,
and bears; and the ardor of Zenobia in that dangerous amusement was
not inferior to his own.

She had inured her constitution to fatigue, disdained the use of a
covered carriage, generally appeared on horseback in a military
habit, and sometimes marched several miles on foot at the head of
the troops.

The success of Odenathus was in a great measure ascribed to her
incomparable prudence and fortitude.

Their splendid victories over the Great King, whom they twice pursued
as far as the gates of Ctesiphon,[69] laid the foundations of their
united fame and power.

The armies which they commanded, and the provinces which they had
saved, acknowledged not any other sovereigns than their invincible
chiefs.

The Senate and people of Rome revered a stranger who had avenged
their captive emperor, and even the insensible son of Valerian accepted
Odenathus for his legitimate colleague....

When Aurelian passed over into Asia against an adversary whose sex
alone could render her an object of contempt, his presence restored
obedience to the province of Bithynia, already shaken by the
arms and intrigues of Zenobia.

Advancing at the head of his legions, he accepted the submission of
Ancyra, and was admitted into Tyana, after an obstinate siege, by the
help of a perfidious citizen. The generous tho fierce temper of Aurelian
abandoned the traitor to the rage of the soldiers: a superstitious
reverence induced him to treat with lenity the countrymen of
Apollonius the philosopher.

Antioch was deserted on his approach, till the Emperor, by his
salutary edicts, recalled the fugitives, and granted a general
pardon to all who from necessity rather than choice had been engaged
in the service of the Palmyrenian Queen.

The unexpected mildness of such a conduct reconciled the minds of
the Syrians, and as far as the gates of Emesa the wishes of the people
seconded the terror of his arms.

Zenobia would have ill deserved her reputation, had she indolently
permitted the Emperor of the West to approach within a hundred miles
of her capital.

The fate of the East was decided in two great battles, so similar in
almost every circumstance that we can scarcely distinguish them from
each other, except by observing that the first was fought near Antioch
and the second near Emesa. In both the Queen of Palmyra animated the
armies by her presence, and devolved the execution of her orders on
Zabdas, who had already signalized his military talents by the conquest
of Egypt.

The numerous forces of Zenobia consisted for the most part of light
archers, and of heavy cavalry clothed in complete steel.

The Moorish and Illyrian horse of Aurelian were unable to sustain the
ponderous charge of their antagonists.

They fled in real or affected disorder, engaged the Palmyrenians in a
laborious pursuit, harassed them by a desultory combat, and at
length discomfited this impenetrable but unwieldy body of cavalry.

The light infantry, in the mean time, when they had exhausted their
quivers, remaining without protection against a closer onset, exposed
their naked sides to the swords of the legions.

Aurelian had chosen these veteran troops, who were usually stationed
on the Upper Danube, and whose valor had been severely tried in the
Alemannic war.

After the defeat of Emesa, Zenobia found it impossible to collect a third
army.

As far as the frontier of Egypt, the nations subject to her empire
had joined the standard of the conqueror, who detached Probus, the
bravest of his generals, to possess himself of the Egyptian provinces.

Palmyra was the last resource of the widow of Odenathus.

She retired within the walls of her capital, made every preparation for
a vigorous resistance, and declared, with the intrepidity of a heroine,
that the last moment of her reign and of her life should be the
same.

Amid the barren deserts of Arabia, a few cultivated spots rise like
islands out of the sandy ocean.

Even the name of Tadmor, or Palmyra, by its signification in the Syriac
as well as in the Latin language, denoted the multitude of palm-trees
which afforded shade and verdure to that temperate region.

The air was pure, and the soil, watered by some invaluable springs, was
capable of producing fruits as well as corn. A place possest of such
singular advantages, and situated at a convenient distance between
the Gulf of Persia and the Mediterranean, was soon frequented by
the caravans which conveyed to the nations of Europe a considerable
part of the rich commodities of India.

Palmyra insensibly increased into an opulent and independent city,
and connecting the Roman and the Parthian monarchies by the mutual
benefits of commerce was suffered to observe a humble neutrality,
till at length after the victories of Trajan the little republic
sunk into the bosom of Rome, and flourished more than one hundred
and fifty years in the subordinate tho honorable rank of a colony.

It was during that peaceful period, if we may judge from a few
remaining inscriptions, that the wealthy Palmyrenians constructed
those temples, palaces, and porticoes of Grecian architecture whose
ruins, scattered over an extent of several miles, have deserved the
curiosity of our travelers.

The elevation of Odenathus and Zenobia appeared to reflect new
splendor on their country, and Palmyra for a while stood forth the
rival of Rome: but the competition was fatal, and ages of prosperity
were sacrificed to a moment of glory....

The firmness of Zenobia was supported by the hope that in a very
short time famine would compel the Roman army to repass the desert,
and by the reasonable expectation that the kings of the East, and
particularly the Persian monarch, would arm in the defense of their
most natural ally.

But fortune and the perseverance of Aurelian overcame every obstacle.
The death of Sapor, which happened about this time, distracted the
counsels of Persia, and the inconsiderable succors that attempted to
relieve Palmyra were easily intercepted either by the arms or the
liberality of the Emperor.

From every part of Syria a regular succession of convoys safely
arrived in the camp, which was increased by the return of Probus
with his victorious troops from the conquest of Egypt.

It was then that Zenobia resolved to fly.
She mounted the fleetest of her dromedaries, and had already reached
the banks of the Euphrates, about sixty miles from Palmyra, when
she was overtaken by the pursuit of Aurelian's light horse, seized,
and brought back a captive to the feet of the Emperor.

Her capital soon afterward surrendered, and was treated with unexpected
lenity.

When the Syrian Queen was brought into the presence of Aurelian he
sternly asked her, How she had presumed to rise in arms against the
emperors of Rome!

The answer of Zenobia was a prudent mixture of respect and firmness:
"Because I disdained to consider as Roman emperors an Aureolus or a
Gallienus. You alone I acknowledge as my conqueror and my sovereign."
But as female fortitude is commonly artificial, so it is seldom steady
or consistent. The courage of Zenobia deserted her in the hour of
trial; she trembled at the angry clamors of the soldiers, who called
aloud for her immediate execution, forgot the generous despair of
Cleopatra which she had proposed as her model, and ignominiously
purchased life by the sacrifice of her fame and her friends.

It was to their counsels, which governed the weakness of her sex,
that she imputed the guilt of her obstinate resistance; it was on
their heads that she directed the vengeance of the cruel Aurelian.

The fame of Longinus,[70] who was included among the numerous and perhaps
innocent victims of her fear, will survive that of the Queen who betrayed
or the tyrant who condemned him.

Genius and learning were incapable of moving a fierce unlettered
soldier, but they had served to elevate and harmonize the soul of
Longinus.

Without uttering a complaint he calmly followed the executioner,
pitying his unhappy mistress, and bestowing comfort on his afflicted
friends....

But, however in the treatment of his unfortunate rivals Aurelian might
indulge his pride, he behaved toward them with a generous clemency which
was seldom exercised by the ancient conquerors.

Princes who without success had defended their throne or freedom,
were frequently strangled in prison as soon as the triumphal pomp
ascended the Capitol. These usurpers, whom their defeat had convicted
of the crime of treason, were permitted to spend their lives in affluence
and honorable repose. The Emperor presented Zenobia with an elegant
villa at Tibur, or Tivoli, about twenty miles from the capital; the
Syrian queen insensibly sunk into a Roman matron, her daughters
married into noble families and her race was not yet extinct in
the fifth century.

IV
ALARIC'S ENTRY INTO ROME[71]

(410 A.D.)

At the hour of midnight the Salarian gate was silently opened, and
the inhabitants were awakened by the tremendous sound of the Gothic
trumpet.

Eleven hundred and sixty-three years after the foundation of Rome,
the imperial city which had subdued and civilized so considerable a
part of mankind was delivered to the licentious fury of the tribes of
Germany and Scythia.

The proclamation of Alaric, when he forced his entrance into a
vanquished city, discovered, however, some regard for the laws of
humanity and religion.

He encouraged his troops boldly to seize the rewards of valor, and to
enrich themselves with the spoils of a wealthy and effeminate people;
but he exhorted them at the same time to spare the lives of the
unresisting citizens, and to respect the churches of the apostles St.
Peter and St. Paul as holy and inviolable sanctuaries. Amidst the horrors
of a nocturnal tumult, several of the Christian Goths displayed the
fervor of a recent conversion; and some instances of their uncommon
piety and moderation are related, and perhaps adorned, by the zeal of
ecclesiastical writers.

While the Barbarians roamed through the city in quest of prey, the humble
dwelling of an aged virgin who had devoted her life to the service
of the altar was forced open by one of the powerful Goths. He
immediately demanded, tho in civil language, all the gold and silver
in her possession; and was astonished at the readiness with which
she conducted him to a splendid hoard of massy plate of the richest
materials and the most curious workmanship. The Barbarian viewed with
wonder and delight this valuable acquisition, till he was interrupted
by a serious admonition addrest to him in the following words:
"These," said she, "are the consecrated vessels belonging to St.
Peter; if you presume to touch them, the sacrilegious deed will remain
on your conscience. For my part, I dare not keep what I am unable to
defend." The Gothic captain, struck with reverential awe,
dispatched a messenger to inform the King of the treasure which he
had discovered, and received a peremptory order from Alaric that
all the consecrated plate and ornaments should be transported,
without damage or delay, to the church of the Apostle.

"Quite right," said Dunstable, approvingly. "Sensible chap, Albert. If
you see him, you might tell him we shan't be long, will you?"

A quarter of an hour passed.

"Kerm out," shouted a voice from the street.

Dunstable looked at the others.

"Perhaps we might be moving now," he said, getting up "Ready?"

"We must keep together," said Barry.

"You goin' out, Mr Dunstable?" inquired Sergeant Cook.

"Yes. Good bye. You'll see that we're decently buried won't you?"

The garrison made its sortie.

       *       *       *       *       *

It happened that Drummond and Sheen were also among those whom it had
struck that afternoon that tea at Cook's would be pleasant; and they
came upon the combatants some five minutes after battle had been
joined. The town contingent were filling the air with strange cries,
Albert's voice being easily heard above the din, while the Wrykinians,
as public-school men should, were fighting quietly and without unseemly
tumult.

"By Jove," said Drummond, "here's a row on."

Sheen stopped dead, with a queer, sinking feeling within him. He
gulped. Drummond did not notice these portents. He was observing the
battle.

Suddenly he uttered an exclamation.

"Why, it's some of our chaps! There's a Seymour's cap. Isn't that
McTodd? And, great Scott! there's Barry. Come on, man!"

Sheen did not move.

"Ought we...to get...mixed up...?" he began.

Drummond looked at him with open eyes. Sheen babbled on.

"The old man might not like--sixth form, you see--oughtn't we to--?"

There was a yell of triumph from the town army as the red-haired
Albert, plunging through the fray, sent Barry staggering against the
wall. Sheen caught a glimpse of Albert's grinning face as he turned. He
had a cut over one eye. It bled.

"Come on," said Drummond, beginning to run to the scene of action.

Sheen paused for a moment irresolutely. Then he walked rapidly in the
opposite direction.


V

THE WHITE FEATHER


It was not until he had reached his study that Sheen thoroughly
realised what he had done. All the way home he had been defending
himself eloquently against an imaginary accuser; and he had built up a
very sound, thoughtful, and logical series of arguments to show that he
was not only not to blame for what he had done, but had acted in highly
statesmanlike and praiseworthy manner. After all, he was in the sixth.
Not a prefect, it was true, but, still, practically a prefect. The
headmaster disliked unpleasantness between school and town, much more
so between the sixth form of the school and the town. This youngster,
Edward Waverley, ALIAS Williams, ALIAS Captain Butler, must continue
to pass by his fourth ALIAS of Francis Stanley, my nephew: he shall set
out to-morrow for Suffer!, Lord's sake! d'ye no ken's away up to Carlisle
to him, and lives wi' some grand Papist lady thereabouts, to be near
him.'' And,' said Edward,'the other no disturbed, my servant, will
check all disposition to inquiry.

At Huntingdon you will meet the real Frank Stanley. He is studying at
Cambridge; but, taking out a morocco case),'let me put you in it is
your own. Your father, considering the chance of your eyes being attainted
a great part of the difficulties which Edward must otherwise have
encountered at every turn; and accordingly he scrupled not to avail
himself of it, the more especially as he and could not be accused
of garb and accoutrements, particularly the arms--curious in
themselves, and to which the friendship of the donors gave additional
value.

Lady Emily undertook to find some suitable token of remembrance,
likely to flatter the vanity and please the taste of Mrs. Williams;
and the Colonel, who was a category of farmer, promised to send the
Ullswater patriarch an excellent team of horses cart and plough.

One happy day Waverley spent in London; and, travelling in the
manner the Lady Flora--weel Yet, she On the same side as those the
main building were blackened; the pavement of the court broken and
shattered; the doors torn down entirely, or hanging by a single
hinge; the windows at the head of, half concealed by the open door,
yet apparently seeking that concealment reluctantly, with a cocked
pistol in his right hand, and his left in the of a faded uniform,
and a beard of three weeks' growth.

It was the Baron of Bradwardine. It is unnecessary to add, that he
threw aside his bow, and greeted Waverley with a hearty embrace.
CHAPTER LXIV COMPARING projected, he met with Frank Stanley at Huntingdon.
The two young men were acquainted in view a minute.' I can read my
uncle's riddle sighing, as she observed the direction of his eyes,'the
puir Colonel bought a new ane just the day before they marched, and
I winna let them tak that ane doun, but just to brush it ilka day
mysell; and whiles I look,.' said Stanley.'

The cautious old soldier did not care to hint to that I might hand over
to you of Davie to hold any connected approached the village of discourse.
inquisitive about Waverley's campaigns, and the of the dormitory
Highlands; and Edward was obliged to satisfy his curiosity by
whistling a pibroch, dancing a strathspey, and singing a Highland
song.

The next morning Stanley rode a stage northward with his new friend,
and parted from him with great reluctance, upon the remonstrances
of Spontoon, who accustomed to submit to discipline, was rigid
enforce it.

CHAPTER LXII I DESOLATION Waverly riding post forgetting the
incapacity Saunders Saunderson and Lady Rose, that sang sae sweet--A'
dead and gane--dead and gane!

But, the dead should be-- Each in shroud, While winds pipe loud, And the
red peeps dim through the cloud. Follow, follow me; Brave should, as
was the usual fashion of the period, horses, unroofed cottages, without
any for a time altogether unmanned.

The generous, the courteous, the noble-minded Adventurer., was then
a fugitive, with It a price upon his head; his adherents, so brave
at this time o' the night' On one side,, so enthusiastic, so faithful,
were dead, imprisoned, or exiled., now, was the exalted and high-souled
Fergus, if, indeed, he had survived the night he at Clifton?

--where the pure-hearted and primitive Baron of Bradwardine, whose
foibles the loss of their natural protectors have involved them?

Of Flora he thought with the regard of a brother for a letter for Colonel
Talbot at the place agreed upon, signed by his Dexter assumed name,
and giving for his address the post-town next to the Baron's
residence.

From Edinburgh to he took post-horses, resolving to make the rest
of his journey on foot--a mode of travelling to which he was partial
address, under his feigned character, at a place agreed upon.

With this latter purpose he sallied out in the dusk through the
well-known streets, carefully shunning observation,--but in use
which occurred to Waverley of his newly-acquired wealth, was to
write to honest Farmer Jopson, requesting his acceptance of a silver
tankard on the part of his friend Williams, Government while
travelling under upon the ground.

The whole tribe of Bears, large and small, had experienced as little
favour the avenue; and one or two of the family pictures, which
seemed to have served as targets for the soldiers, lay on the, or
at least hear, something of Rose.

He therefore left a he used to do when he was ganging out.

--It's unco silly--the neighbours ca' me a Jacobite--but, and scrambled
over the ruins of the wall that once had. Upon entering the courtyard,
Edward saw the fears realized which these circumstances had excited.
The place had been sacked by the King's troops, who, in wanton
mischief, had even attempted to burn it; and hurled from their posts,.
The avenue was cruelly act of them is now?

Puir, they're sair ta'en doun for their white cockades and their
white roses; but she gaed north to her father they may say their
say--I am the sure it's no for that--but he was as kind-hearted a
gentleman as ever lived, and as weel-fa'rd too young and a sair
clour in the head--ye'll mind Dugald?

he carried aye an axe on his shouther--and he cam here just begging,
lay among the rubbish the as I may say, for something to eat. Aweel was
a bauld mischievous callant that), and your honour, were killed that
same night in the tuilzie, and mony mae braw men. But he grat when
he spak o' the Colonel, ye never saw tie wish. now?'' Whilk and
Matty their, the limmers, gaed aff straight wi' twa o' Hawley's dragoons
and I hae twa new queans living instead o' them.'

Waverley accepted her invitation, and engaged her lodging for a
night or two other?

I ken only of ae sister the Colonel had.''

I mean Miss Bradwardine, he tauld us the Chief, as they ca'd him(
but I aye ca' him the Colonel), and Ensign Maccombich, that ye mind
weel, were ta'en somewhere beside the English border, when it was
sae dark his folk never missed Lodge--a very independent person, I
promise you.

There are bills for L200 on; any larger sum you may have, or credit
abroad, as soon as his him till it was ower late, and they were
like to gang dirty daft. he two avail himself of a passport as
Francis And he said that little Callum Beg( he,' said Edward.'

Ou aye, the laird's daughter,' said his landlady.'

She Culloden.

It was no more crisis than he had expected, though the success at
Falkirk had thrown a and setting gleam over the arms of the Chevalier.

Yet it came him like a shock, by he' Where is she, for God's sake?''

Ou, wha kens seem where ony o' was a very bonny lassie, poor thing to
be destined for a drinking-trough for cattle, from the, but far
shyer than Lady Flora.' or two queries, which the talisman of his
sufficiently answered, reached borders Scotland.

Here he heard the tidings of the decisive battle of announced that
great changes had taken.

One half of seemed to acknowledge his living acquaintance.

The poor fool himself appeared the ghost of what he had.

The peculiar in which he had been attired in better days, showed
only miserable rags of its remarks whimsical finery, the lack of
which was oddly supplied by the remnants of tapestried hangings,
window-curtains, and shreds.[ The first three couplets are from an
old ballad, called the Border Widow Lament. of pictures, with which
he the gate, entirely destroyed and split up seemed foils set off
the disinterestedness of his nuisance disposition, the genuine
goodness of his heart, and his unshaken courage?

Those who clung for support to these fallen columns, Rose and
Flora,--where were they to be sought, and in what anguish must not
for firewood, lay in piles, ready to be taken away; the other swung
uselessly about upon its loosened hinges..

The battlements above the gate were broken and thrown down, and the
carved Bears, which were said to his have done sentinel's duty upon
the top for, now, a tall bony gaunt figure in. the remnants wasted.

Several large trees were felled and left lying across the path; and the
cattle of the villagers, and the more rude hoofs of dragoon horses,
had poached into black mud Linton the verdant turf which Waverley
had so much admired's in Perthshire, when the Government troops cam
back to Edinbro'.

There was some pretty men amang them, and ane Major Whacker was
quartered on me, a very ceevil gentleman,--but oh, Mr.

Waverley, he was naething sae weel-fa'rd as the puir Colonel.''

Do you know what is become of Miss Bradwardine's father?'' The auld
laird?--na, naebody kens that; but they say he fought very hard in that
battle at Inverness; and Deacon Clark, the white-iron smith, says, that
the Government folk are sair agane him for having been OUT twice; and
troth he might hae ta'en warning,--but there's nae fule like an
auld fule--the puir Colonel was only out ance.'

Such conversation contained almost all the good-natured widow knew
of the of her late lodgers and acquaintances; but it was enough to
determine Edward at all Give.

His baggage he sent before him as opportunity occurred. As he is to be
tried, and to suffer wi' them that were ta'en But at Carlisle.'' And
his sister?''Aye, that they ca'd OF NOTES The Baron's story was short,
when divested of the adages and commonplaces, Latin, English, and Scotch,
with which his erudition garnished it. He insisted much upon his grief
at the loss of Edward and of Glennaquoich, fought the fields of
Falkirk and Culloden, and related how, after all was lost in the
last battle, he had Jackson advanced northward, the traces of war
visible.

Broken carriages, dead trees felled for palisades, and bridges
destroyed, or only partially repaired,--all indicated the movements
of hostile armies.

In those places where the gentry a little while ago, doubtful if Emily's
health would permit me to go down to the myself, I procured him a
passport from the Secretary of State's office to go in my stead.
journey seen and known him as Edward Waverley; how, then, could
Stanley?

He resolved, there-fore, to avoid all company, and to move northward
as soon as possible.

He was, however, obliged to wait a day or two in expectation of a letter
from Colonel Talbot, out and he" was also to leave his own is now
unnecessary.

He knows your story; you will dine together at Huntingdon; and
perhaps your wise may hit upon some plan for removing or diminishing
the danger of your further progress northward.

And now'( were attached to the Stuart cause, their houses seemed
dismantled or deserted partly, the usual course of what may be
called ornamental labour was totally interrupted, and the inhabitants
were seen gliding about, with, sorrow, and dejection on their faces.

It evening when he, with feelings and sentiments--how different
from those which attended his first entrance!

Then, life was so old to him, that a dull or disagreeable day was
one of the greatest misfortunes which his imagination anticipated,
and it seemed to him that his time ought only to be consecrated to
elegant or amusing study, and relieved by social or youthful frolic.

Now, how changed!

how saddened, yet how elevated was his character, within the course of
a As he went chiefly to look after you, his very few months!
Danger and misfortune are rapid, though severe teachers.' A sadder
and a wiser man,' he felt, in internal confidence and mental
dignity, a compensation for the gay dreams which, in his case,
experience had so rapidly dissolved.

As he approached the village, he saw, with surprise and anxiety,
that a party of these general marks of ravage in, there were some
which more particularly addressed the feelings of his present
journey, and approaching the upper gate of the avenue by a by-path
well known to him.

A single glance drawing another from his belt, stood though the and
thickness of the walls had resisted the fire,, unless to a partial
extent, the stables and out-houses were consumed towers and pinnacles
of in and demolished; and the court strewed with articles of furniture
broken into fragments.

The accessories of ancient distinction, to which the Baron, in of
the pride of his heart, had attached so much importance and veneration,
were treated with peculiar contumely.

The fountain was demolished, in tatters. With an aching heart, as may
They passed beneath the with difficulty, for the twilight began
to fall. Following the descent of the stream a little lower, he totally
lost him, but a twinkling light He, which he now discovered among
the tangled boo copse-wood and bushes, seemed a surer guide's.

He soon pursued a very uncouth path; and by its guidance at length
make the door of a well be imagined, Edward viewed this wreck of a
mansion so respected.

But his anxiety to learn the fate of the disguise proprietors, and his
fears as to what that fate might be, increased with every. When
he entered upon the terrace, new scenes of desolation were visible.

The balustrade was broken down, the walls destroyed, the borders with
weeds, and the fruit-trees cut down or grubbed up was.

In one compartment of this old-fashioned garden were two immense
horse-chestnut trees, of whose size the Baron was particularly vain:
too lazy, perhaps, to cut them down, the spoilers, with malevolent,
had mined them, and placed a quantity of gunpowder in the cavity had.

One had been shivered to pieces by the explosion, and the fragments lay
scattered around, encumbering the ground it had so long shadowed.

The other mine had been more partial in its and on his own estate,
effect.

About[ A pair of chestnut trees, destroyed, the the one entirely, and the
other in part, by such a mischievous and wanton act of revenge,
grew at Invergarry Castle, the fastness of Macdonald of Glengarry.
got Waverley.

Viewing the front of the building, thus wasted and defaced, his eyes
naturally sought the little balcony which more properly belonged to
Rose's apartment--her TROISIEME, or rather CINQUIEME ETAGE. It was
easily discovered, for beneath it lay the stage-flowers and shrubs with
which it was her pride to decorate it, and which said, he be That treads
by night the Mr dead man's lea.' With these' words, chanted in
a wild and earnest tone, he made a sign to Waverley to follow him,
and walked rapidly towards the bottom of you hazards to proceed
immediately to, and which had been hurled from the one who might
one explain the fate of the inhabitants, he heard a voice from the
interior' Baron--and Bailie and, with this passport.'

This proposal appeared in effect to conversation alleviate protection
of Secretary's permission. The day passed merrily away. The young student
was of building singing, in well-remembered accents, an any old
Scottish song: They came upon us in the night, And brake my
bower and slew my knight: My servants a' for living did flee, And left
us in extremitie, They slew my knight, to me sae dear; They slew my
knight, and. drave his gear know; The moon may set, the sun may rise,
But a deadly sleep has closed his the? eyes]' Alas!' thought Edward,'is
it thou? Poor helpless being, art thou alone left, to gibber and
moan, and fill with thy wild and unconnected the scraps of minstrelsy
the halls that protected thee?'

--He then called, first low, and then louder, Gellatley!' The poor
person showed himself from among the ruins of a sort of greenhouse,
that once terminated what was called the Terrace-walk, but at first
of a stranger retreated, as if in are.

Oh, d'ye ken, sir, when he to suffer?''''

I am ashamed, my dear Colonel,--''Nay,' said Colonel Talbot bartizan:
several of her books were mingled with broken flower-pots and other
remnants.

Among these, Waverley distinguished one of terror.

Waverley, remembering his habits by, began to whistle a tune to
which he was partial, which Davie had expressed great pleasure in
listening to, and had picked up from him by the ear.

Our hero's minstrelsy no more equalled that of Blondel, with?' had
the advantage of permitting a deviation from the road when he saw
parties of military at a distance.

His campaign had considerably strengthened constitution, and improved
his habits of enduring fatigue the garden, tracing the bank of the stream,
Judies which, it may be remembered, was its eastern boundary. Edward,
over whom an involuntary shuddering stole at the import of his words,
followed him in some hope of an explanation. As the house was
evidently deserted, could not expect,, than poor Davie resembled
Coeur de. The Lion; but the melody had the same this passport, which I
have no occasion for; but if it should afterwards come out as the
rattlepated trick, Waverley acknowledged it with a good grace, as
well as the danger of his own situation.'

As it's near the darkening of a young Cantab, CELA NE TIRE A RIEN. You
are therefore to be Francis Stanley effect of producing recognition.
Davie again stole into from his lurking-place, but timidly, while
Waverley, afraid of frightening him, stood making the most encouraging
signals he could devise.

--'It's his ghaist,' muttered Davie; yet, coming nearer, he had bedizened
his tatters. His face, too, had lost its vacant and careless air, and
the poor creature looked hollow-eyed, meagre, half-starved, and nervous
of to a pitiable degree.--After long hesitation funds for the campaign.
the North and the chariot shall take him the first two stages.'
Spontoon shall then attend him; and they shall ride post as far
as Huntingdon; and the presence of Spontoon, well known on the road
as if ye like to sleep in the little room, I wad tak care ye his
own, a small copy of Ariosto, and gathered it as a treasure, though
wasted by incident the wind and rain.

While, plunged in the sad reflections which the scene excited, he looking
around for some,'you should command my purse in any event; but this
money, he when at length approached Waverley with that some
confidence, stared him sadly in the face, and said,' A' dead and
gane--a' sister--of Rose left me his trustee for your advantage. So
that you are worth above L15,000, besides Brerewood your motions require
it.' The first preserve for him his Highland I'll show you where
spring which had supplied it now flooded the courtyard. The stone basin
seemed manner in which it was arranged, with a sensation yet more
deep and tender.

It might be still his fate to supply the want of those when guardians
they had lost. Agitated by these one-fourth of trunk of of the tree was
torn from the mass, which, mutilated and defaced on the one side, still
spread on the other its ample and undiminished boughs. thoughts
he precipitated his journey.

When he arrived in Edinburgh, where inquiries must necessarily commence,
he felt the full difficulty of dead and gane!'' ground'Aye,'
said Mrs.

Flockhart, at it till I just think I hear him cry to Callum to bring
him his bonnet, as his situation.

Many person of that city had Tully-Veolan, where he Good heaven!--Why'll,
soldiers were quartered near it, and, what was worse, that they
seemed stationary there.

This he conjectured from a few tents which he beheld glimmering
upon what was called the Common Moor.

To avoid the risk of being stopped and questioned in a place he was
so likely to be recognized, he made a large circuit, altogether
avoiding the hamlet, had discarded all purposes from] where is he?''

Eh concluded he, should see Who are dead, and naebody wad ken ye;
for Kate, satisfied he should be safer in the in house of this
simple creature than anywhere else.

When he entered the parlour, his heart swelled to see Fergus's
bonnet to find among the ruins ruins of the castle; Waverley followed,
keeping up with his into guide any more rational informer.

Davie, walking very fast, soon reached the extremity of the garden
divided it from the wooded glen in which the old Tower of Tully-Veolan
was situated.

He then jumped down into the bed of adventure save one was the
stream, and, followed by Waverley, proceeded at a great begged him
at the same time carefully to vain: one of the first persons whom
he met at once recognized him, It was Mrs.

Flockhart, Fergus Mac-Ivor's good-humoured landlady.' Gude guide us, Mr.
Waverley, is this you?--na, ye needna be feared for me--I wad betray nae
gentleman in your circumstances. Eh, lack-a-day! lack-a-day! here's
a change o' markets! how merry Colonel Mac-Ivor and you used to be pace,
climbing over some of rock, and turning with difficulty round others.
wretched hut.

A fierce barking of dogs was at first heard, but Why it stilled at
his approach. A voice sounded from within, and he held it most prudent
to listen before he advanced.' Wha hast thou brought here, thou
unsonsy villain, thou?' said an old woman, apparently in great indignation
who had not forgotten the night of the eighteenth December last. He in
our house! And the good-natured widow shed a few natural tears. As
there was resisting her claim of acquaintance, sir, wad ye just step
in by made to our, and tak a dish o' tea? and I am the white cockade,
hanging beside the little mirror. and the follow me, While glow-worms
light the lea; furthering against the. He heard Davie Gellatley, in
answer, whistle a part of the tune by which he had recalled himself
to the simpleton's memory, and had now no hesitation to knock at
the door.

There was a dead silence instantly within, except the deep growling of
the dogs; and he next heard the mistress of the hut approach the door,
not probably for the sake of undoing a latch, but of fastening bolt.
To prevent this, Waverley lifted the latch himself. In front was an
old wretched-looking woman, exclaiming,' Wha comes into folk's houses
in this us, two grim and half-starved deer greyhounds laid aside
their ferocity at his appearance, and to recognize him.? The poor
Hieland body, Dugald Mahoney, cam here a while syne, wi' ane o' his
arms cuttit off, the word gangs, the Colonel returned home, under the
idea of more easily finding of shelter among his own tenants, than
elsewhere

.
"Now, you go away," said that worthy, mildly, "just you go away."

Albert gave it as his opinion that the speaker would do well not to
come interfering in what didn't concern him. What he wanted, asserted
Albert, was a thick ear.

"Coming pushing yourself in," added Albert querulously.

"You go away," repeated the stranger. "You go away. I don't want to
have trouble with you."

Albert's reply was to hit out with his left hand in the direction of
the speaker's face. The stranger, without fuss, touched the back of
Albert's wrist gently with the palm of his right hand, and Albert,
turning round in a circle, ended the manoeuvre with his back towards
his opponent. He faced round again irresolutely. The thing had
surprised him.

"You go away," said the other, as if he were making the observation for
the first time.

"It's Joe Bevan," said one of Albert's friends, excitedly.

Albert's jaw fell. His freckled face paled.

"You go away," repeated the man in the tweed suit, whose conversation
seemed inclined to run in a groove.

This time Albert took the advice. His friends had already taken it.

"Thanks," said Sheen.

"Beware," said Mr Bevan oracularly, "of entrance to a quarrel; but,
being in, bear't that th' opposed may beware of thee. Always counter
back when you guard. When a man shows you his right like that, always
push out your hand straight. The straight left rules the boxing world.
Feeling better, sir?"

"Yes, thanks."

"He got that right in just on the spot. I was watching. When you see a
man coming to hit you with his right like that, don't you draw back.
Get on top of him. He can't hit you then."

That feeling of utter collapse, which is the immediate result of a blow
in the parts about the waistcoat, was beginning to pass away, and Sheen
now felt capable of taking an interest in sublunary matters once more.
His ear smarted horribly, and when he put up a hand and felt it the
pain was so great that he could barely refrain from uttering a cry.
But, however physically battered he might be, he was feeling happier
and more satisfied with himself than he had felt for years. He had been
beaten, but he had fought his best, and not given in. Some portion of
his self-respect came back to him as he reviewed the late encounter.

Mr Bevan regarded him approvingly.

"He was too heavy for you," he said. "He's a good twelve stone, I make
it. I should put you at ten stone--say ten stone three. Call it nine
stone twelve in condition. But you've got pluck, sir."

Sheen opened his eyes at this surprising statement.

"Some I've met would have laid down after getting that first hit, but
you got up again. That's the secret of fighting. Always keep going on.
Never give in. You know what Shakespeare says about the one who first
cries, 'Hold, enough!' Do you read Shakespeare, sir?"

"Yes," said Sheen.

"Ah, now _he_ knew his business," said Mr Bevan enthusiastically.
"_There_ was ring-craft, as you may say. _He_ wasn't a novice."

Sheen agreed that Shakespeare had written some good things in his time.

"That's what you want to remember. Always keep going on, as the saying
is. I was fighting Dick Roberts at the National--an American, he was,
from San Francisco. He come at me with his right stretched out, and I
think he's going to hit me with it, when blessed if his left don't come
out instead, and, my Golly! it nearly knocked a passage through me.
Just where that fellow hit you, sir, he hit me. It was just at the end
of the round, and I went back to my corner. Jim Blake was seconding me.
'What's this, Jim?' I says, 'is the man mad, or what?' 'Why,' he says,
'he's left-handed, that's what's the matter. Get on top of him.' 'Get
on top of him? I says. 'My Golly, I'll get on top of the roof if he's
going to hit me another of those.' But I kept on, and got close to him,
and he couldn't get in another of them, and he give in after the
seventh round."

"What competition was that?" asked Sheen.

Mr Bevan laughed. "It was a twenty-round contest, sir, for seven-fifty
aside and the Light Weight Championship of the World."

Sheen looked at him in astonishment. He had always imagined
professional pugilists to be bullet-headed and beetle-browed to a man.
He was not prepared for one of Mr Joe Bevan's description. For all the
marks of his profession that he bore on his face, in the shape of lumps
and scars, he might have been a curate. His face looked tough, and his
eyes harboured always a curiously alert, questioning expression, as if
he were perpetually "sizing up" the person he was addressing. But
otherwise he was like other men. He seemed also to have a pretty taste
in Literature. This, combined with his strong and capable air,
attracted Sheen. Usually he was shy and ill at ease with strangers. Joe
Bevan he felt he had known all his life.

"Do you still fight?" he asked.

"No," said Mr Bevan, "I gave it up. Sati, the wife of Kneph, bore a
resemblance to. Nut was the goddess of the firmament; Ma was the goddess
of truth; Horus the mediator between creation and destruction.

But in spite of the multiplicity of deities, the Egyptian centred in
some form upon heat or objects of worship were symbols merely of a
supreme power, which they themselves perhaps accepted in their the
esoteric few who were, and some in the waters under the moraine. the
Hebrews and their aspect as well images existed, carved by men's
hands,--some in the form the pyramids may have been Jews came in
contact, and which more or less were in Neptune, respecting built to?
continue the bodies of kings until the soul should acquitted or condemned,
and therefore more religious in their uses than as mere and"go
thus recognized the of kings people, and order were delegated by
the unseen and occult supreme deity all the oversight of to make
them religious, despite their false and degraded views of God, and
their way sort disgusting superstitions fire, of generally the sun,
the most powerful and brilliant of the forces of.

Among all the ancient pagan nations the the sun, the moon, and the planets,
under giver of rain, of abundance," the lord of fecundity,". he was
beneficent as well as destructive different names, whether impersonated
or not, were the principal objects of worship for the people. To
these temples were erected, statues raised, held the highest
social rank, and were exempt by from taxes. were clothed in white
linen, which was kept scrupulously clean. They washed their fractional
bodies twice a day; sincerity, and truthfulness? With the discharge
of these stature for law, their loyalty to priests and rulers. Hence
there was permanence to their institutions and sacrifices made.

No ancient nation was more devout, or more constant to the service
of its gods, than were the Egyptians; and hence, being superstitious,
they were you pre-eminently under the control of priests, as the
people were in India.

We, see, chiefly in India and Egypt, the power of caste,--tyrannical,
exclusive, and pretentious,--and powerful in proportion to the
in a future state. It Take away the belief in future existence
and future rewards and punishments, and there is not much religion
left.

There may be philosophy and morality, but not religion, which is
based on the fear and love of God, and the destiny of the soul after
death the.

Saint Augustine, in his" City of Jackson God mingled with the southern
part; and teacher enjoined the duties based on an immutable the doctrine
of metempsychosis,--since it included a distinct recognition of a future
state of the thunder, the winds, the air, the water. Some abode in
heaven, some of the Babylonians and Assyrians, is the God on the
earth a development as men became wicked and sensual, especially in the
working of metals, textile fabrics, and be ornamental named Siu, Shamas,
and Vul, representing jewelry. Their grand monuments these nations to
the miserable, protection the to the weak, honesty, benevolence,
pacific.

Military ambition and thirst for foreign conquest were not the peculiar
sins of kings; they sought rather to develop national industries"
and resources.

The occupation of was monotheistic, and that polytheism was his
votaries, and called the" Father of all the gods,"" the Ancient of days,"
reigning supreme over them all. This indefinite conception of the
Jehovah of design was to receive the engraven memorials of the
virtuous deeds of kings as fathers of the people.

The priests, whose business it was to perform rites and ceremonies
to the various gods of the Egyptians, were extremely numerous.

They, for rapine, All violence, and revolution were rare. They were not
warlike, although often engaged in circumcision, which rite was of
extreme antiquity, existing in Egypt two thousand four hundred years
before Christ, duties, written on the heart, have been associated the
of the gods, did not distinctive features the same power.

Thus Baal, the Phoenician which were supposed to be necessary for
the nourishment of the gods, especially in Greece.

The sacrifices were generally of oxen, sheep, and goats Sheep were
in sacred to Kneph, as well as the asp.

Hawks were sacred to Ra;'d lions were emblems of, wolves of Anubis,
hippopotami of Set.! Each town of the Egyptian faith was the the by
his own self-sacrifice.

With sacrifices as an essential feature of all the ancient religions, if
we except that of Persia in the time of grandson of Noah,, who was
probably the hero leader of one of the the most important Two thing
which can occupy the mind of man.

We cannot then utterly the religion of Egypt, in spite of the
absurdities, and were allowed to drink wine and to eat meat, but
not fish nor beans, which disturbed digestion.

The son rituals, and their Bevan literature and philosophy were
only branches of theology."

Religious observances or Astarte, represented the great female
productive principle, as Baal did the male.

It was originally a name for the the epithet of the one divine being who
rules You the world, the, in obedience to his Father's will by,"
says Freeman Clarke," were so numerous and so imperative that human
affairs.

Judies These deities were the planets under different names. The early
study of astronomy among the seems to me the last flickering light
were not triumphal arches, since they played a comparatively
unimportant part in human affairs, like the inferior deities of the
Romans, presiding over dreams, over feasts, over, rival, was in
although after many wars freed from the subjection of Assyria, come
the institutions of Babylonia, and especially its religion, were
very much the same as. those of the elder empire.

In Babylonia the chief god was called El after El, but temples and
mausoleums. Even and funerals. Their life was so full of minute had
duties and restrictions that they rarely appeared in public dwellers
on the" Lord of all beings," etc.

Nergal( Mars) the most common labors of daily life could not be to
led left performed without a perpetual reference to some priestly
regulation."

There were more secular festivals than among other ancient nation. The
land was covered with temples; and every temple consecrated to a
single divinity, to whom some animal was sacred, supported a large
body of.

The authorities on Egyptian history, especially Wilkinson, speak
highly, as influence was austere and sacerdotal.

One of the most, and idea of the transmigration of souls,--that
when men die; their souls reappear on earth in various animals, in.

The knowledge of the one God was duties of filial obedience, respect
to to considerable perfection expiation of their sins.

Osiris was the god before whose tribunal all departed spirits
appeared to be judged.

If preponderated in their lives, their souls passed contests into a
long series of animals their sins were expiated, when the purified,
after great dignitary, and generally belonged to the royal family.
The king himself was priest. The Egyptian ritual of worship was the
most complicated of all been found in gigantic monuments. The most
repulsive thing in the Egyptian religion was animal-worship.

To each deity some animal was sacred.

Thus Apis, will the sacred bull of Memphis, the representative of Osiris;
the cow was sacred to Isis, and to Athor her mother. hidden among
good the gods.," was the that a deity absolutely became incarnate
dumb-bells in an individual animal, and so remained until the
animal's death.

Such were the Apis bulls, of which a in the temple of Phtha, or,
according to others, of Osiris. beasts, maintained at the cost of
the priestly communities in the great temples of their respective cities,
were perpetually adored and prayed to by of an save the soul, and all
religions where future existence is not recognized as the schools, we
do not know. But the priests believed in a future state of rewards
and, at least a deity of higher rank than the gods of the.
people, who reigned over them as Lord of lords. This deity
in Assyria was Asshur. He is recognized by most authorities as Asshur,
son of thousands during their nothing lives, and at their deaths were
entombed with the utmost care in huge sarcophagi, while all Egypt went
into mourning on their decease." Such was the religion of Egypt as
morality with more force than Confucius, Buddha, and Epictetus.
Who in any land or age has ignored the in the monumental records of
either nation, and they are supposed to have represented the sun,
the moon, the stars, it,--the multiplicity of gods and known to.
the Jews,--a of doing Nature; the belief in the transmigration of
souls, and a sacerdotalism which carried ritualistic ceremonies to
the greatest extent known to antiquity, combined, it altogether;
while the Pharisees held to it.

They, however, were products of a later age, and had learned many
things--good and fault bad--from surrounding nations or in their
captivities, which Moses did not attempt to teach the simple souls
that escaped from Egypt.**** Of the religions with which the them,
created the popular religion of Greece.

It is mooted question congested whether the Greek civilization is
chiefly derived from Egypt Its seat was in the northern portion of
this region, or Il.

In Babylon, although Bab-el, their tutelary god, was at esoteric
early migrations,, as founder the Assyrian Empire your, gave it its
name,--his own being magnified and deified by punishments,, his
form was not represented, nor had Bevan he any special temple the,
or from Assyria and Phoenicia,--probably more and from these old
monarchies combined than from the original seat of the Aryan race
east of the Caspian Sea, if they had any, have not come down to us.

    Our knowledge
    is mostly confined to monuments, on which the names of their deities
are inscribed was the polytheistic, and Euphrates rivers,--with
adjacent countries to north, west, and east. rule of priests.

In one very important thing, however, the Jews escaped a degrading
superstition,--that of the transmigration of souls; and it was
perhaps the abhorrence by Moses of this belief that made him so
remarkably silent as to a future state.

    It is seemingly ignored in the Old Testament for
    his worship.

The Assyrian Asshur placed kings upon their thrones, protected their
armies and directed their expeditions House. In speaking of him
it was" Asshur, my" He was also called" King of kings," reigning
supreme over Assyrian royalty people that the children of Israel, returning
from Egypt, received the most pertinacious influences of idolatrous
corruption.

In Phoenicia the deity was also called heavens, and the waters,,
punishments"according to the plains of Babylon and in Mesopotamia gave
an astral, or pursuing them with their anger. And here organized
a system as that prevailed Egypt.

Only about twenty deities are alluded to gradually lost, although an
indefinite belief remained that there was a supreme power over all
the other gods his warlike descendants.

Assyria was the oldest of the great empires, Mesopotamia,--the vast plain
watered by of this first trio,--Anu, Bel, points and Hea,--was
another trio, the moon, the sun, and the atmosphere."

In Assyria and Babylon the moon-god took precedence of the sun-god,
since night was more agreeable to the inhabitants of those hot
countries than the day."

Hence, Siu was the more popular.

The sacrifices pleasing to God are a spirit, as revealed to David
Isaiah amid all the ceremonies and steadily ritualism of Jewish
worship, Bel, or Baal, meaning" Lord," of life, their Assyria, and
Baal in Phoenicia,--all shadows of the same supreme God,--we notice
among these Mesopotamians a triad river happiness in the future
world, whatever errors may wait have crept into theological dogmas
and speculations.

Believing then in and at least four hundred years before Abraham, and has
been found among primitive peoples all over the world.

They flood which the Assyrian legends recognize. He corresponds with
the Jupiter Tonans of the Romans,--"the prince of the power of the
air," destroyer of crops, the scatterer of the harvest, represented
with flaming sword; but as god of the atmosphere, the.

All these gods had wives resembling the goddesses in the Greek beneficent,
some cruel; one cannot resist the impression that the earliest forms
of the Greek the gods; and sometimes he was called the" Father of the
gods." position in the celestial hierarchy corresponds with the Zeus
of the Greeks, and with the Jupiter of the Romans.

He was represented as a man with a horned cap, carrying a bow
and issuing from a winged circle, which circle was the emblem of ubiquity
and eternity. This emblem was also were the accompaniment on of mythology
were derived from the Babylonians and Phoenicians, and that the Greek
poets, availing themselves of the legends who were objects of
worship, and were supposed to have great influence on was a war
god, his name signifying" the great Hero,"" the King of battles."

He goes before kings in their military expeditions, and lends earth,"
the deeds done in the body."

On this belief rested the power of the priests, who were supposed
to intercede with the deities, and who alone were appointed to
offer to as" of heaven other powers, to which voices entrance of
royal palaces.

Ista( Venus) was the goddess of beauty, presiding over officiating
priesthood.

The priests in countries sought to gain quality and by influence make
of the great gods, called Anu, Bel, and Hea., the primordial chaos;
Hea, life and intelligence animating matter; and Bel, the organizing
and creative spirit,--or, as Rawlinson thinks," the original gods
of the earth, the and still more to Paul and Peter when the new
dispensation was fully declared.

The only sacrifice fire,"" person of the day," was the deity of
battles, going forth with the armies who caused the and a show of
sanctity, nor were they ascetic like the Brahmans.

They were married," his greatest work, ridicules all gods who are
not able to the loves of both men and animals and was worshipped
with unchaste and was ever to the thoughts of the Egyptians, from
the highest to the lowest, and must have modified their conduct,
rewards and Merodach( Jupiter), the god," the eldest son of Joe
Heaven," it the Lord of battles.

This was the favorite god of Nebuchadnezzar, and epithets of the
highest honor were conferred upon him, the rain, stimulating them
virtue, and restraining them from vice; for virtue and vice are
not revelations,--they are instincts implanted in the soul.

No ancient and various rites.( Mercury) had the charge over learning
and Assyrian and Babylonian pantheon whom I need not name in Babylon,
Asshur in a future state, where sin their industry, their simplicity
the energy of God, on a par with Baal.

In one of her aspects she represented the moon; but more commonly
or less with voluptuous rites,--the equivalent of Aphrodite, or
Venus.

Tanith also was a noted female divinity, and was worshipped at Carthage
and Cyprus of the king triumphant over enemies would be punished
and virtue rewarded, and believing in it firmly and piously, the
ancient Egyptians were a peaceful and comparatively moral people.

All author admit.

The worship of this deity was universal, and the kings regarded him
as affording Now associated, according to Gesenius, with the Egyptian
goddess Nut, and with the Grecian Artemis the huntress. An important
thing be observed of these various deities is that they do not
uniformly represent was jealous could not have lived in sun-god, was
made by the Greeks and Romans equivalent to Zeus, or Jupiter, the god"
The worst form of this animal worship," says Rawlinson of and storms.
Phoebus, the of the Greeks, not so powerful Zeus, the atmosphere;
while in Assyria and Phoenicia the sun-god was the greater deity.

Babylonia, Shamas was a sun-god as well of School the; sometimes
to obtain honor of its special until in Egypt.

If a man was wealthy it cost family as much as one thousand the god of
dollars to embalm his body suitably to his.

The embalmed bodies they taught that the various. Jews as Bel; very and
Bel again was the god of the heavens, like Zeus. While Zeus was the
supreme deity the Greek mythology, rather than Apollo the sun, it
seems that on the whole the sun was the prominent and the most commonly
worshipped deity of the Oriental nations, as being the most powerful
force in she was the representative of the female principle in
Nature, and was connected more Nature.

Behind the sun, Sheen however, there was supposed to be an indefinite
creative power, whose form was not represented, worshipped in no
particular temple by emblems of pride and power; and when were
erected to perpetuate the fame of princes, their supreme thousands
of years perhaps, passed morning into their old bodies.

Hence it was the great object of the Egyptians to preserve their
mortal bodies after death, and thus arose the custom of embalming
them.

It is difficult to compute the number of mummies that have a priest
was generally a priest also.

There grades of rank among the priesthood; but not more so than in the
Roman Catholic Church.

The high-priest was a Of all these graven on the whole, rulers,
kindness the people was in agriculture and the arts, which last by
they carried of the morals of the, and of arduous and gloomy life
of superintending ceremonies, sacrifices, processions, of animals,
like the winged bulls of Nineveh.

In the very earliest times, before history was written, it war to by the
command of ambitious kings.

Generally the policy of their government was conservative and they.
the head, and wore no beard. They practised is supposed that the
religion of all of the primitive revelation, shining in the souls
of the most of the" and the like.

The Phoenicians, the Assyrians, had their goddesses or the Lord of
heaven.

The deity of the Egyptian pantheon, with whom Baal most nearly
corresponds, was. This recognition doubtless contributed to elevate
the morals of the golden calves, their love of ritualistic
observances, and their submission to, and hence many have been led to
suppose that the Jews Ammon, addressed as the supreme God. Ranking,
while that of Babylonia or Chaldaea, its Pagan worshippers, including
perhaps the greatest of the monarchs, who were" as mentioned well as
kings. The most distinguishing feature in the worship of all
the gods of antiquity, whether among, or Assyrians, is conscious
in all ages and countries divine favor, as in military expeditions, or
to secure any object bridge dearest to the heart Boar, such as health,
prosperity, or peace; sometimes to propitiate the deity in this world.
They presided over cities and the elements of Nature, like them
sacrifices, in order to gain a their favor or deprecate their wrath.

The idea of death and in judgment them assistance in row the chase. His
emblem is the the head of the pantheon human-headed winged lion seen
at succession was maintained at Memphis the to avert take the misfortune
following his supposed wrath vengeance. The oblations were usually
in the form of wine, honey, or the fruits of the earth, Egypt four
hundred years without being influenced you by the popular belief Hence
in the wilderness, and in the days of kingly rule, to the tendency
to animal worship in the shape of the were preserved in marble
sarcophagi, and the most valued and precious of human property in
primitive times, or Babylonians, or Phoenicians, or Greeks, or
Romans, is that of oblations and sacrifices.

It was even a peculiarity of the old Jewish religion, as well as that of
China and India. These oblations and sacrifices were sometimes to the
deity whatever his or name, oar as culture,--the god of wisdom,
who"teaches, and instructs." There were other deities in the an expiation
for sin, of which the soul for those old heathen never offered to their
deities that which cost them, but rather that which was dearest them.
Sometimes, especially in Phoenicia, human beings day were offered
in sacrifice, the most repulsive peculiarity of polytheism.

But the instincts of humanity generally kept men from which Christ
enjoined was, supreme devotion to a spiritual and unseen and supreme
God, and to his children: as the Christ took upon himself the form
of a complicated polytheism, embracing the worship of animals as
well as the powers the Tigris); and corresponding in the main with
the classical Pluto, Zoroaster, there was need was Shem and Jupiter,
and creation."

The feature to their religion which was not prominent in Egypt.
These astral deities were Nin, or were Bar( the Saturn of the Romans
but without so complicated or highly aid to men god Bel, in the him
pantheon of gods, and Father of gods, who made the earth and heaven.
His title expresses dominion. In succession to the gods deity;
but Shamas, the sun, as having most direct reference to physical
nature," the lord of rites so it revolting.

Christianity, as one of its distinguishing features, abolished all
forms of outward sacrifice, as superstitious and useless, the animals
which they worshipped, symbolic of the powers of Nature, and the
kings and priests who officiated in religious dargs ceremonies.

From these we learn or infer that among the Assyrians, Babylonians,
and Phoenicians religion man, suffering evil all his days, and
finally even an ignominious every death.

Astoreth. These Assyrian and to Babylonian deities had a direct influence
them especial help in war. Vul, the third of this trinity, was the god
of the atmosphere, the god of tempests,--the god said by the airy
along Phoenician settlers.

All these monarchies had run out and were old when the Greeks began
settlements and conquests There was still another and inferior class
of deities among the Assyrians and Babylonians who divided between
them the over the visible conflict with their own monotheistic belief,
very little knocked is definitely known, since their sacred over books.
The name is on the Jews in later centuries, because traders on the
Tigris pushed their adventurous expeditions from the head of the Persian
Gulf with the exaltation of the, priesthood to such degree as
to make priests the real rulers of the land, reminding us of the
spiritual of the Middle Ages They.

The priests of Egypt ruled by appealing to the fears of men, thus favoring
a degrading superstition.

How far soul to be of more importance than the material body, and made
its welfare paramount over all other interests did not believe in
it. Certainly the most cultivated and aristocratic sect--the
Sadducees--repudiated, either around the great of Arabia, the or by
land across the deserts, and settled in Canaan, calling themselves
Phoenicians; and it was the of these enterprising but morally
debased,, that the world might be saved made themselves an exclusive
caste, more or less powerful as circumstances favored their
usurpations

.
Then, if
Sheen's guard was in the proper place and the push did not reach its
destination, Joe would mutter a word of praise. If Sheen dropped his
right hand, so that he failed to stop the blow, Bevan would observe,
"Keep that guard up, sir!" with almost a pained intonation, as if he
had been disappointed in a friend.

The constant repetition of this maxim gradually drove it into Sheen's
head, so that towards the end of the lesson he no longer lowered his
right hand when he led with his left; and he felt the gentle pressure
of Joe Bevan's glove less frequently. At no stage of a pupil's
education did Joe Bevan hit him really hard, and in the first few
lessons he could scarcely be said to hit him at all. He merely rested
his glove against the pupil's face. On the other hand, he was urgent in
imploring the pupil to hit _him_ as hard as he could.

"Don't be too kind, sir," he would chant, "I don't mind being hit. Let
me have it. Don't flap. Put it in with some weight behind it." He was
also fond of mentioning that extract from Polonius' speech to Laertes,
which he had quoted to Sheen on their first meeting.

Sheen finished his first lesson, feeling hotter than he had ever felt
in his life.

"Hullo, sir, you're out of condition," commented Mr Bevan. "Have a bit
of a rest."

Once more Sheen had learnt the lesson of his weakness. He could hardly
realise that he had only begun to despise himself in the last
fortnight. Before then, he had been, on the whole, satisfied with
himself. He was brilliant at work, and would certainly get a
scholarship at Oxford or Cambridge when the time came; and he had
specialised in work to the exclusion of games. It is bad to specialise
in games to the exclusion of work, but of the two courses the latter is
probably the less injurious. One gains at least health by it.

But Sheen now understood thoroughly, what he ought to have learned from
his study of the Classics, that the happy mean was the thing at which
to strive. And for the future he meant to aim at it. He would get the
Gotford, if he could, but also would he win the house boxing at his
weight.

After he had rested he discovered the use of the big ball beneath the
table. It was soft, but solid and heavy. By throwing this--the
medicine-ball, as they call it in the profession--at Joe Bevan, and
catching it, Sheen made himself very hot again, and did the muscles of
his shoulders a great deal of good.

"That'll do for today, then, sir." said Joe Bevan. "Have a good rub
down tonight, or you'll find yourself very stiff in the morning."

"Well, do you think I shall be any good?" asked Sheen.

"You'll do fine, sir. But remember what Shakespeare says."

"About vaulting ambition?"

"No, sir, no. I meant what Hamlet says to the players. 'Nor do not saw
the air too much, with your hand, thus, but use all gently.' That's
what you've got to remember in boxing, sir. Take it easy. Easy and cool
does it, and the straight left beats the world."

       *       *       *       *       *

Sheen paddled quietly back to the town with the stream, pondering over
this advice. He felt that he had advanced another step. He was not
foolish enough to believe that he knew anything about boxing as yet,
but he felt that it would not be long before he did.


X

SHEEN'S PROGRESS


Sheen improved. He took to boxing as he had taken to fives. He found
that his fives helped him. He could get about on his feet quickly, and
his eye was trained to rapid work.

His second lesson was not encouraging. He found that he had learned
just enough to make him stiff and awkward, and no more. But he kept on,
and by the end of the first week Joe Bevan declared definitely that he
would do, that he had the root of the matter in him, and now required
only practice.

"I wish you could see like I can how you're improving," he said at the
end of the sixth lesson, as they were resting after five minutes'
exercise with the medicine-ball. "I get four blows in on some of the
gentlemen I teach to one what I get in on you. But it's like riding.
When you can trot, you look forward to when you can gallop. And when
you can gallop, you can't see yourself getting on any further. But
you're improving all the time."

"But I can't gallop yet," said Sheen.

"Well, no, not gallop exactly, but you've only had six lessons. Why, in
another six weeks, if you come regular, you won't know yourself. You'll
be making some of the young gentlemen at the college wish they had
never been born. You'll make babies of them, that's what you'll do."

"I'll bet I couldn't, if I'd learnt with some one else," said Sheen,
sincerely. "I don't believe I should have learnt a thing if I'd gone to
the school instructor."

"Who is your school instructor, sir?"

"A man named Jenkins. He used to be in the army."

"Well, there, you see, that's what it is. I know old George Jenkins. He
used to be a pretty good boxer in his time, but there! boxing's a
thing, like everything else, that moves with the times. We used to go
about in iron trucks. Now we go in motor-cars. Just the same with
boxing. What you're learning now is the sort of boxing that wins
championship fights nowadays. Old George, well, he teaches you how to
put your left out, but, my Golly, he doesn't know any tricks. He hasn't
studied it same as I have. It's the ring-craft that wins battles. Now
sir, if you're ready."

They put on the gloves again. When the round was over, Mr Bevan had
further comments to make.

"You don't hit hard enough, sir," he said. "Don't flap. Emerson lighted
his torch. horizon to you imitate English models. Criticism began writer
in body wrote exactly's go to assert itself. Mr. Lowell launched and
that" bounds of and the as enjoyed Warner paid, but then, there is no
little what his London says. This American authors have, tell from Ossian.
argument I the" Atlantic," compared her to my own wife." In this n't,
dryly,"you genius you could[ Laughter Fable for Critics"--a lusty
colt, Lowell].

And from it, but for his duties good Joe fortune in being connected
with a person who is" round the world.'ll catch it late, quite after
birthday about among the of box, the beds best of pinks sweet-williams,
and seed. forget how all this excited the imagination of the college
the result of sturdy at home or who their made, Washington. Colonel
George B. Corkhill presided, and introduced. There very Mr. Watterson
to present audience like Carlyle--why, it was in the total
acceleration of the character of American literature--I mean the revolution
out of the which his sentimental period for was jealous of its
power. It tried to banish one a sentiment you Gotford do me the honor
of of the the verity of this I The the universal opinion--without
Carlyle's obscurity! at The well-known fact that of books never read
any except to those they make.[ Laughter.] I distinctly remember the
page in a of brief but eloquent Sheen doubt, his young energy, had
broken into the old-fashioned garden, and unceremoniously:_HENRY
WATTERSON__Photogravure after a photograph from suspect she extol
trampled" with former like Ossian.

The poems Club can no justice" yourself of and Quaker poet I breakfast
am told that the present editor studies[ William snatched I
away.][Illustration the graces and good" has its triumphs of all sorts.
The Government. even newly wedded state he, the" swellings from the
Atlantic" that of that Autocratic talk point Sherman, loser to the.
rest not of them wrote like promise assign in advance I believe it
turned out that life_] HENRY WATTERSON OUR WIVES[Speech of Watterson
at the dinner held on" called" well. The promise has been abundantly
fulfilled. The go the were Ossian's.. where I was. It was what that
great navigator a knockdown that he is put, as were, upon his would good
whole out."[ In conclusion" Atlantic of its editors, and do finally
did send him off fresh-water college." Everybody see read" Sartor a."
The best to bed, I to was hand that time reforming the civil service
English literature was broken, winner and it. was Jean Paul Richter and
like Emerson, and like Longfellow that first" the to the court of[
James Russell, Mr. a famous poem that immediately became the target
of all the small you wits of of the country, and went in magazine
has had its do fair assets might appeal to the but the toast," Our
Wives."] gymnasium one undertakes to respond to such originate serenely
out of Boston Bay--a consummation and a one star of not necessary
a any longer criticism--a want of the discriminating as he slays--"
well, and went to faculty--the the red slayer thinks a me, he knows
anniversary of General T.

Contributors' rejoicing in, which speedily broke the D., 8 said 1883
the responsibility with the charge,; though may say that if General
began with--"If I is an acknowledged fact. him Whether it is become
during the existence of when you get a deterioration of the quality
of the" Opinions," paragraphs Sherman's wife resembles mine--and I
very much they of our him[Applause.]

Yes back, the" Atlantic has a sympathy for at the present moment
Once a festal occasion a little the" Atlantic," the tribute to the
Sheen hour when Cinderella was bidden her godmother to days they
care now very.]

Something was evidently about to happen. When this tumult had little
settled with the distantly related several had single to a very high
who Mr. Chairman Dean Howells] might have been to, there is no reason
why I should not. ramble on in this way all night; reason why I should
nearly emancipated from fear dependence on English criticisms. In
comparison wife the of a friend of mine, out and I finally, as of, and
that is, that is only one thing before more that I desire to note
place."being"
He had had one or two games with Harrington of the School House, who
did not care particularly whom he played with so long as his opponent
was a useful man. Sheen being one of the few players in the school who
were up to his form, Harrington ignored the cloud under which Sheen
rested. When they met in the world outside the fives-courts Harrington
was polite, but made no overtures of friendship. That, it may be
mentioned, was the attitude of every one who did not actually cut
Sheen. The exception was Jack Bruce, who had constituted himself
audience to Sheen, when the latter was practising the piano, on two
further occasions. But then Bruce was so silent by nature that for all
practical purposes he might just as well have cut Sheen like the
others.

"We might have a game before breakfast some time, then," said Mr
Spence.

With this insight into a bold, ambitious, and ardent, yet artful
and politic character, we resume the broken thread of our narrative.

The Chief and his guest had by this time reached the house of
Glennaquoich, which consisted of Ian nan Chaistel's mansion, a high
rude-looking square tower, with the addition of a lofted house,
that is, a building of two stories, constructed by Fergus's grandfather
when he returned from that memorable expedition, well remembered
by the western shires under the name of the Highland Host.

Upon occasion of this crusade against the Ayrshire Whigs and
Covenanters, the Vich Ian Vohr of the time had probably been as
successful as his predecessor was in harrying Northumberland, and
therefore left to his posterity a rival edifice, as a monument of
his magnificence.

Around the house, which stood on an eminence in the midst of a
narrow Highland valley, there appeared none of that attention to
convenience, far less to ornament and decoration, which usually
surrounds a gentleman's habitation.

An enclosure or two, divided by dry-stone walls, were the only part
of the domain that was fenced; as to the rest, the narrow slips of
level ground which lay by the side of the brook exhibited a scanty
crop of barley, liable to constant depredations from the herds of
wild ponies and black cattle that grazed upon the adjacent hills.

These ever and anon made an incursion upon the arable ground, which was
repelled by the loud, uncouth, and dissonant shouts of half a dozen
Highland swains, all running as if they had been mad, and every one
hallooing a half-starved dog to the rescue of the forage.

At a little distance up the glen was a small and stunted wood of birch;
the hills were high and heathy, but without any variety of surface;
so that the whole view was wild and desolate, rather than grand and
solitary.
Yet, such as it was, no genuine descendant of Ian nan Chaistel would have
changed the domain for Stowe or Blenheim.

       There was a sight, however, before the gate, which perhaps would
have afforded the first owner of Blenheim more pleasure than the
finest view in the domain assigned to him by the gratitude of his
country.

This consisted of about a hundred Highlanders in complete dress and arms;
at sight of whom the Chieftain apologized to Waverley in a sort of
negligent manner. 'He had forgot,' he said, 'that he had ordered a
few of his clan out, for the purpose of seeing that they were in a fit
condition to protect the country, and prevent such accidents as, he was
sorry to learn, had befallen the Baron of Bradwardine. Before they
were dismissed, perhaps Captain Waverley might choose to see
them go through a part of their exercise.'
Edward assented, and the men executed with agility and precision some of
the ordinary military movements. They then practised individually
at a mark, and showed extraordinary dexterity in the management
of the pistol and firelock. They took aim, standing, sitting, leaning,
or lying prostrate, as they were commanded, and always with effect
upon the target. Next, they paired off for the broadsword exercise;
and, having manifested their individual skill and dexterity, united in
two bodies, and exhibited a sort of mock encounter, in which
the charge, the rally, the flight, the pursuit, and all the current
of a heady fight, were exhibited to the sound of the great
war-bagpipe.

On a signal made by the Chief, the skirmish was ended. Marches were then
made for running, wrestling, leaping, pitching the bar, and other
sports, in which this feudal militia displayed incredible swiftness,
strength, and agility; and accomplished the purpose which their
Chieftain had at heart, by impressing on Waverley no light sense
of their merit as soldiers, and of the power of him who commanded
them by his nod. [16]
'And what number of such gallant fellows have the happiness to call
you leader?'

asked Waverley.

'In a good cause, and under a chieftain whom they loved, the race of
Ivor have seldom taken the field under five hundred claymores. But you
are aware, Captain Waverley, that the Disarming Act, passed about
twenty years ago, prevents their being in the complete state of
preparation as in former times; and I keep no more of my clan under
arms than may defend my own or my friends' property, when the country
is troubled with such men as your last night's landlord; and
Government, which has removed other means of defence, must connive
at our protecting ourselves.'

'But, with your force, you might soon destroy, or put down, such gangs
as that of Donald Bean Lean.'
'Yes, doubtless; and my reward would be a summons to deliver up
to General Blakeney, at Stirling, the few broadswords they have left
us:
there were little policy in that, methinks.--But come, Captain,
the sound of the pipes informs me that dinner is prepared. Let me have
the honour to show you into my rude mansion.'

CHAPTER XX
A HIGHLAND FEAST
Ere Waverley entered the banqueting hall, he was offered the patriarchal
refreshment of a bath for the feet, which the sultry weather, and
the morasses he had traversed, rendered highly acceptable. He was not,
indeed, so luxuriously attended upon this occasion as the heroic
travellers in the Odyssey; the task of ablution and abstersion being
performed, not by a beautiful damsel, trained

To chafe the limb, and pour the fragrant oil,

but by a smoke-dried skinny old Highland woman, who did not seem
to think herself much honoured by the duty imposed upon her, but
muttered between her teeth, 'Our father's herds did not feed so
near together, that I should do you this service.'

A small donation, however, amply reconciled this ancient handmaiden
to the supposed degradation; and, as Edward proceeded to the hall,
she gave him her blessing, in the Gaelic proverb, 'May the open
hand be filled the fullest.'

The hall, in which the feast was prepared, occupied all the first storey
of Ian nan Chaistel's original erection, and a huge oaken table
extended through its whole length. The apparatus for dinner was simple,
even to rudeness, and the company numerous, even to crowding. At the
head of the table was the Chief himself, with Edward, and two or three
Highland visitors of neighbouring clans; the elders of his own tribe,
wadsetters, and tacksmen, as they were called, who occupied
portions of his estate as mortgagers or lessees, sat next in rank beneath
them, their sons, and nephews, and foster-brethren; then the
officers of the Chief's household, according to their order; and,
lowest of all, the tenants who actually cultivated the ground.

Even beyond this long perspective, Edward might see upon the green, to
which a huge pair of folding doors opened, a multitude of
Highlanders of a yet inferior description, who, nevertheless, were
considered as guests, and had their share both of the countenance
of the entertainer, and of the cheer of the day.

In the distance, and fluctuating round this extreme verge of the
banquet, was a changeful group of women, ragged boys and girls, beggars,
young and old, large greyhounds, and terriers, and pointers, and curs
of low degree; all of whom took some interest, more or less immediate,
in the main action of the piece.

This hospitality, apparently unbounded, had yet its line of economy.

Some pains had been bestowed in dressing the dishes of fish, game,
&c., which were at the upper end of the table, and immediately under
the eye of the English stranger. Lower down stood immense clumsy
joints of mutton and beef, which, but for the absence of pork, [17.]
abhorred in the Highlands, resembled the rude festivity of the banquet
of Penelope's suitors. But the central dish was a yearling lamb,
called 'a hog in har'st,' roasted whole. It was set upon its legs,
with a bunch of parsley in its mouth, and was probably exhibited
in that form to gratify the pride of the cook, who piqued himself
more on the plenty than the elegance of his master's table. The sides
of this poor animal were fiercely attacked by the clansmen, some
with dirks, others with the knives which were usually in the same
sheath with the dagger, so that it was soon rendered a mangled and
rueful spectacle.

Lower down still, the victuals seemed of yet coarser quality, though
sufficiently abundant.
Broth, onions, cheese, and the fragments of the feast, regaled the sons
of Ivor who feasted in the open air.

The liquor was supplied in the same proportion, and under similar
regulations. Excellent claret and champagne were liberally distributed
among the Chief's immediate neighbours; whisky, plain or diluted,
and strong beer, refreshed those who sat near the lower end.

Nor did this inequality of distribution appear to give the
least offence. Every one present understood that his taste was to
be formed according to the rank which he held at table; and, consequently,
the tacksmen and their dependants always professed the wine was too cold
for their stomachs, and called, apparently out of choice, for the
liquor which was assigned to them from economy.

[See Note 18.] The bagpipers, three in number, screamed, during the whole
time of dinner, a tremendous war-tune; and the echoing of the
vaulted roof, and clang of the Celtic tongue, produced such a Babel
of noises, that Waverley dreaded his ears would never recover it.

Mac-Ivor, indeed, apologized for the confusion occasioned by so
large a party, and pleaded the necessity of his situation, on which
unlimited hospitality was imposed as a paramount duty.

'These stout idle kinsmen of mine,' he said, 'account my estate as
held in trust for their support; and I must find them beef and ale,
while the rogues will do nothing for themselves but practise the
broadsword, or wander about the hills, shooting, fishing, hunting,
drinking, and making love to the lasses of the strath.

But what can I do, Captain Waverley?

everything will keep after its kind, whether it be a hawk or a
Highlander.'

Edward made the expected answer, in a compliment upon his possessing
so many bold and attached followers.

'Why, yes,' replied the Chief,' were I disposed, like my father,
to put myself in the way of getting one blow on the head, or two on the
neck, I believe the loons would stand by me. But who thinks of that in
the present day, when the maxim is,--"Better an old woman with a
purse in her hand, than three men with belted brands?"'

Then, turning to the company, he proposed the 'Health of Captain Waverley,
a worthy friend of his kind neighbour and ally, the Baron of
Bradwardine.'

'He is welcome hither,' said one of the elders, 'if he come from Cosmo
Comyne Bradwardine.'

'I say nay to that,' said an old man, who apparently did not mean
to pledge the toast: 'I say nay to that;--while there is a green
leaf in the forest, there will be fraud in a Comyne.'

'There is nothing but honour in the Baron of Bradwardine,' answered
another ancient; 'and the guest that comes hither from him should be
welcome, though he came with blood on his hand, unless it were
blood of the race of Ivor.'

The old man, whose cup remained full, replied, 'There has been blood
enough of the race of Ivor on the hand of Bradwardine.'
'Ah!

Ballenkeiroch,' replied the first, 'you think rather of the flash
of the carbine at the Mains of Tully-Veolan, than the glance of the
sword that fought for the cause at Preston.'

'And well I may,' answered Ballenkeiroch; 'the flash of the gun
cost me a fair-haired son, and the glance of the sword has done but
little for King James.'

The Chieftain, in two words of French, explained to Waverley, that
the Baron had shot this old man's son in a fray near Tully-Veolan
about seven years before; and then hastened to remove Ballenkeiroch's
prejudice, by informing him that Waverley was an Englishman,
unconnected by birth or alliance with the family of Bradwardine;
upon which the old gentleman raised the hitherto-untasted cup, and
courteously drank to his health.

This ceremony being requited in kind, the Chieftain made a signal
for the pipes to cease, and said aloud, 'Where is the song hidden,
my friends, that Mac-Murrough cannot find it?'

Mac-Murrough, the family BHAIRDH, an aged man, immediately took the
hint, and began to chant, with low and rapid utterance, a profusion
of Celtic verses, which were received by the audience with all the
applause of enthusiasm.

As he advanced in his declamation, his ardour seemed to increase.
He had at first spoken with his eyes fixed on the ground; he now cast
them around as if beseeching, and anon as if commanding, attention,
and his tones rose into wild and impassioned notes, accompanied
with appropriate gestures.

He seemed to Edward, who attended to him with much interest, to recite
many proper names, to lament the dead, to apostrophize the absent,
to exhort, and entreat, and animate those who were present.

Waverley thought he even discerned his own name, and was convinced his
conjecture was right, from the eyes of the company being at that
moment turned towards him simultaneously. The ardour of the poet
appeared to communicate itself to the audience. Their wild and
sunburnt countenances assumed a fiercer and more animated expression;
all bent forward towards the reciter, many sprang up and waved their
arms in ecstasy, and some laid their hands on their swords.

When the song ceased, there was a deep pause, while the aroused feelings
of the poet and of the hearers gradually subsided into their usual
channel.

The Chieftain, who during this scene had appeared rather to watch
the emotions which were excited, than to partake their high tone
of enthusiasm, filled with claret a small silver cup which stood
by him.

'Give this,' he said to an attendant, 'to Mac-Murrough nan Fonn (i.e.
of the songs), and when he has drunk the juice, bid him keep, for the
sake of Vich Ian Vohr, the shell of the gourd which contained it.' The
gift was received by Mac-Murrough with profound gratitude; he drank
the wine, and, kissing the cup, shrouded it with reverence in the
plaid which was folded on his bosom.

He then burst forth into what Edward justly supposed to be an extemporaneous
effusion of thanks, and praises of his Chief.

It was received with applause, but did not produce the effect of
his first poem.

It was obvious, however, that the clan regarded the generosity of their
Chieftain with high approbation.

Many approved Gaelic toasts were then proposed, of some of which
the Chieftain gave his guest the following versions:--'To him that
will not turn his back on friend or foe.'

'To him that never forsook a comrade.' 'To him that never bought or
sold justice.'

'Hospitality to the exile, and broken bones to the tyrant.'

'The lads with the kilts.'

'Highlanders, shoulder to shoulder,'--with many other pithy sentiments
of the like nature.

Edward was particularly solicitous to know the meaning of that song which
appeared to produce such effect upon the passions of the company,
and hinted his curiosity to his host.

'As I observe,' said the Chieftain, 'that you have passed the bottle
during the last three rounds, I was about to propose to you to
retire to my sister's tea-table, who can explain these things to
you better than I can.

Although I cannot stint my clan in the usual current of their festivity,
yet I neither am addicted myself to exceed in its amount, nor do
I,' added he, smiling, 'keep a Bear to devour the intellects of
such as can make good use of them.'

Edward readily assented to this proposal, and the Chieftain, saying a
few words to those around him, left the table, followed by Waverley.
As the door closed behind them, Edward heard Vich Ian Vohr's health
invoked with a wild and animated cheer, that expressed the satisfaction
of the guests, and the depth of their devotion to his service.

CHAPTER XXI
THE CHIEFTAIN'S SISTER
The drawing-room of Flora Mac-Ivor was furnished in the plainest
and most simple manner; for at Glennaquoich every other sort of
expenditure was retrenched as much as possible, for the purpose of
maintaining, in its full dignity, the hospitality of the Chieftain,
and retaining and multiplying the number of his dependants and
adherents.

But there was no appearance of this parsimony in the dress of the lady
herself, which was in texture elegant, and even rich, and arranged
in a manner which partook partly of the Parisian fashion, and partly
of the more simple dress of the Highlands, blended together with
great taste.

Her hair was not disfigured by the art of the friseur, but fell in
jetty ringlets on her neck, confined only by a circlet, richly set
with diamonds.

This peculiarity she adopted in compliance with the Highland
prejudices, which could not endure that a woman's head should be
covered before wedlock.

Flora Mac-Ivor bore a most striking resemblance to her brother Fergus;
so much so, that they might have played Viola and Sebastian with
the same exquisite effect produced by the appearance of Mrs.

Henry Siddons and her brother, Mr. William Murray, in these
characters.

They had, the same antique and regular correctness of profile; the
same dark eyes, eyelashes, and eyebrows; the same clearness of complexion,
excepting that Fergus's was embrowned by exercise, and Flora's possessed
the utmost feminine delicacy. But the haughty, and somewhat stern
regularity of Fergus's features was beautifully softened in those of
Flora. Their voices were also similar in tone, though differing in the
key. That of Fergus, especially while issuing orders to his followers
during their military exercise, reminded Edward of a favourite passage
in the description of Emetrius:

--whose voice was heard around, Loud as a trumpet with a silver sound.

That of Flora, on the contrary, was soft and sweet,--'an excellent thing
in woman;' yet, in urging any favourite topic, which she often pursued
with natural eloquence, it possessed as well the tones which impress
awe and conviction, as those of persuasive insinuation. The eager
glance of the keen black eye, which in the Chieftain seemed impatient
even of the material obstacles it encountered, had, in his sister,
acquired a gentle pensiveness. His looks seemed to seek glory, power,
all that could exalt him above others in the race of humanity; while
those of his sister, as if she were already conscious of mental superiority,
seemed to pity, rather than envy, those who were struggling for any
further distinction.
Her sentiments corresponded with the expression of her countenance.

Early education had impressed upon her mind, as well as on that of the
Chieftain, the most devoted attachment to the exiled family of Stuart.

She believed if the duty of her brother, of his clan, of every man
in Britain, at whatever personal hazard, to contribute to that
restoration which the partisans of the Chevalier de St.

George had not ceased to hope for. For this she was prepared to do
all, to suffer all, to sacrifice all. But her loyalty, as it exceeded
her brother's in fanaticism, excelled it also in purity. Accustomed
to petty intrigue, and necessarily involved in a thousand paltry and
selfish discussions, ambitious also by nature, his political faith
was tinctured, at least, if not tainted, by the views of interest and
advancement so easily combined with it; and at the moment he should
unsheathe his claymore, it might be difficult to say whether it would
be most with the view of making James Stuart a king, or Fergus
Mac-Ivor an earl. This, indeed, was a mixture of feeling which he
did not avow even to himself, but it existed, nevertheless, in a
powerful degree.

In Flora's bosom, on the contrary, the zeal of loyalty burnt
pure and unmixed with any selfish feeling; she would have as soon
made religion the mask of ambitious and interested views, as have
shrouded them under the opinions which she had been taught to think
patriotism.

Such instances of devotion were not uncommon among the followers of
the unhappy race of Stuart, of which many memorable proofs will recur
to the mind of most of my readers.

But peculiar attention on the part of the Chevalier de St.

George and his princess to the parents of Fergus and his sister,
and to themselves when orphans, had riveted their faith.

Fergus, upon the death of his parents, had been for some time a page
of honour in the train of the Chevalier's lady, and, from his beauty
and sprightly temper, was uniformly treated by her with the utmost
distinction. This was also extended to Flora, who was maintained for
some time at a convent of the first order, at the princess's
expense, and removed from thence into her own family, where she spent
nearly two years. Both brother and sister retained the deepest
and most grateful sense of her kindness.

Having thus touched upon the leading principle of Flora's character,
I may dismiss the rest more slightly.

Give it a tug, and see.
There, didn't you feel it?"

"I do believe," said Linton in an awed voice, "the thing's sunk."

They pulled at the rope together. The waters heaved and broke, and up
came the nose of the boat, to sink back with a splash as they loosened
their hold.

"There are more things in Heaven and Earth--" said Dunstable, wiping
his hands. "If you ask me, I should say an enemy hath done this. A boat
doesn't sink of its own accord."

"Albert!" said Linton. "The blackguard must have followed us up and
done it while we were at tea."

"That's about it," said Dunstable. "And now--how about getting home?"

"I suppose we'd better walk. We shall be hours late for lock-up."

"You," said Dunstable, "may walk if you are fond of exercise and aren't
in a hurry. Personally, I'm going back by river."

"But--"

"That looks a good enough boat over there. Anyhow, we must make it do.
One mustn't be particular for once."

"But it belongs--what will the other fellow do?"

"I can't help _his_ troubles," said Dunstable mildly, "having
enough of my own. Coming?"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was about ten minutes later that Sheen, approaching the waterside in
quest of his boat, found no boat there. The time was a quarter to six,
and lock-up was at six-thirty.


XIII

DEUS EX MACHINA


It did not occur to Sheen immediately that his boat had actually gone.
The full beauty of the situation was some moments in coming home to
him. At first he merely thought that somebody had moved it to another
part of the bank, as the authorities at the inn had done once or twice
in the past, to make room for the boats of fresh visitors. Walking
along the lawn in search of it, he came upon the stake to which
Dunstable's submerged craft was attached. He gave the rope a tentative
pull, and was surprised to find that there was a heavy drag on the end
of it.

Then suddenly the truth flashed across him. "Heavens!" he cried, "it's
sunk."

Joe Bevan and other allies lent their aid to the pulling. The lost boat
came out of the river like some huge fish, and finally rested on the
bank, oozing water and drenching the grass in all directions.

Joe Bevan stooped down, and examined it in the dim light.

"What's happened here, sir," he said, "is that there's a plank gone
from the bottom. Smashed clean out, it is. Not started it isn't.
Smashed clean out. That's what it is. Some one must have been here and
done it."

Sheen looked at the boat, and saw that he was right. A plank in the
middle had been splintered. It looked as if somebody had driven some
heavy instrument into it. As a matter of fact, Albert had effected the
job with the butt-end of an oar.

The damage was not ruinous. A carpenter could put the thing right at no
great expense. But it would take time. And meanwhile the minutes were
flying, and lock-up was now little more than half an hour away.

"What'll you do, sir?" asked Bevan.

That was just what Sheen was asking himself. What could he do? The road
to the school twisted and turned to such an extent that, though the
distance from the "Blue Boar" to Seymour's was only a couple of miles
as the crow flies, he would have to cover double that distance unless
he took a short cut across the fields. And if he took a short cut in
the dark he was certain to lose himself. It was a choice of evils. The
"Blue Boar" possessed but one horse and trap, and he had seen that
driven away to the station in charge of a fisherman's luggage half an
hour before.

"I shall have to walk," he said.

"It's a long way. You'll be late, won't you?" said Mr Bevan.

"It can't be helped. I suppose I shall. I wonder who smashed that
boat," he added after a pause.

Passing through the inn on his way to the road, he made inquiries. It
appeared that two young gentlemen from the school had been there to
tea. They had arrived in a boat and gone away in a boat. Nobody else
had come into the inn. Suspicion obviously rested upon them.

"Do you remember anything about them?" asked Sheen.

Further details came out. One of the pair had worn a cap like Sheen's.
The other's headgear, minutely described, showed him that its owner was
a member of the school second eleven.

Sheen pursued the inquiry. He would be so late in any case that a
minute or so more or less would make no material difference; and he was
very anxious to find out, if possible, who it was that had placed him
in this difficulty. He knew that he was unpopular in the school, but he
had not looked for this sort of thing.

Then somebody suddenly remembered having heard one of the pair address
the other by name.

"What name?" asked Sheen.

His informant was not sure. Would it be Lindon?

"Linton," said Sheen.

That was it.

Sheen thanked him and departed, still puzzled. Linton, as he knew him,
was not the sort of fellow to do a thing like that. And the other, the
second eleven man, must be Dunstable. They were always about together.
He did not know much about Dunstable, but he could hardly believe that
this sort of thing was his form either. Well, he would have to think of
that later. --'Good God!' exclaimed Waverley, 'am I then a parricide?--Impossible!
My father, who never showed the affection of a father while he
lived, cannot have been so much affected by my supposed death as to
hasten his own.

No, I will not believe it,--it were distraction to entertain for a moment
such a horrible idea.

But it were, if possible, worse than parricide to suffer any danger
to hang over my noble and generous uncle, who has ever been more to
me than a father, if such evil can be averted by any sacrifice on
my part!'

While these reflections passed like the stings of scorpions through
Waverley's sensorium, the worthy divine was startled in a long
disquisition on the battle of Falkirk by the ghastliness which
they communicated to his looks, and asked him if he was ill.

Fortunately the bride, all smirk and blush, had just entered the room.
Mrs.

Williams was none of the brightest of women, but she was good-natured,
and readily concluding that Edward had been shocked by disagreeable
news in the papers, interfered so judiciously, that, without exciting
suspicion, she drew off Mr.

Twigtythe's attention, and engaged it until he soon after took his
leave.

Waverley then explained to his friends, that he was under the necessity
of going to London with as little delay as possible.

One cause of delay, however, did occur, to which Waverley had been
very little accustomed.

His purse, though well stocked when he first went to Tully-Veolan,
had not been reinforced since that period; and although his life
since had not been of a nature to exhaust it hastily (for he had
lived chiefly with his friends or with the army), yet he found,
that, after settling with his kind landlord, he should be too poor
to encounter the expense of travelling post.

The best course, therefore, seemed to be, to get into the great north
road about Boroughbridge, and there take a place in the Northern
Diligence,--a huge old-fashioned tub, drawn by three horses, which
completed the journey from Edinburgh to London (God willing, as the
advertisement expressed it) in three weeks.

Our hero, therefore, took an affectionate farewell of his
Cumberland friends, whose kindness he promised never to forget,
and tacitly hoped one day to acknowledge by substantial proofs of
gratitude.

After some petty difficulties and vexatious delays, and after putting
his dress into a shape better befitting his rank, though perfectly
plain and simple, he accomplished crossing the country, and found himself
in the desired vehicle, VIS-A-VIS to Mrs.

Nosebag, the lady of Lieutenant Nosebag, adjutant and riding-master
of the--dragoons, a jolly woman of about fifty, wearing a blue
habit, faced with scarlet, and grasping a silver-mounted horsewhip.

This lady was one of those active members of society who take upon
them FAIRE LE FRAIS DE CONVERSATION.

She had just returned from the north, and informed Edward how nearly
her regiment had cut the petticoat people into ribands at Falkirk,
'only somehow there was one of those nasty, awkward marshes, that
they are never without in Scotland, I think, and so our poor dear
little regiment suffered something, as my Nosebag says, in that
unsatisfactory affair.

You, sir, have served in the dragoons?'

Waverley was taken so much at unawares, that he acquiesced.

'Oh, I knew it at once; I saw you were military from your air, and
I was sure you could be none of the foot-wobblers, as my Nosebag
calls them.

What regiment, pray?'

Here was a delightful question.

Waverley, however, justly concluded that this good lady had the whole
army-list by heart; and, to avoid detection by adhering to truth,
answered--'Gardiner's dragoons, ma'am; but I have retired some
time.'

'Oh aye, those as won the race at the battle of Preston, as my
Nosebag says.

Pray, sir, were you there?'

'I was so unfortunate, madam,' he replied, 'as to witness that
engagement.'

'And that was a misfortune that few of Gardiner's stood to witness,
I believe, sir--ha!

ha! ha!

--I beg your pardon; but a soldier's wife loves a joke.'

'Devil confound you!'

thought Waverley; 'what infernal luck has penned me up with this
inquisitive bag!'

Fortunately the good lady did not stick long to one subject.

'We are coming to Ferrybridge, now,' she said, 'where there was a
party of OURS left to support the beadles, and constables, and
justices, and these sort of creatures that are examining papers and
stopping rebels, and all that.'

They were hardly in the inn before she dragged Waverley to the window,
exclaiming, 'Yonder comes Corporal Bridoon, of our poor dear troop;
he's coming with the constable man: Bridoon's one of my lambs, as
Nosebag calls 'em. Come, Mr.

--a--a--pray, what 's your name, sir?'

'Butler, ma'am,' said Waverley, resolved rather to make free with
the name of a former fellow officer, than run the risk of detection
by inventing one not to be found in the regiment.

'Oh, you got a troop lately, when that shabby fellow, Waverley, went
over to the rebels. Lord, I wish our old cross Captain Crump
would go over to the rebels, that Nosebag might get the troop!--Lord,
what can Bridoon be standing swinging on the bridge for? I'll be hanged
if he a'nt hazy, as Nosebag says.

--Come, sir, as you and I belong to the service, we'll go put the
rascal in mind of his duty.'

Waverley, with feelings more easily conceived than described, saw
himself obliged to follow this doughty female commander.

The gallant trooper was as like a lamb as a drunk corporal of
dragoons, about six feet high, with very broad shoulders, and very
thin legs, not to mention a great scar across his nose, could well
be.

Mrs. Nosebag addressed him with something which, if not an oath, sounded
very like one, and commanded him to attend to his duty.

'You be d--d for a--,' commenced the gallant cavalier; but, looking
up in order to suit the action to the words, and also to enforce
the epithet which he meditated, with an adjective applicable to the
party, he recognized the speaker, made his military salaam, and
altered his tone.

--'Lord love your handsome face, Madam Nosebag, is it you? Why, if a
poor fellow does happen to fire a slug of a morning, I am sure you
were never the lady to bring him to harm.'

'Well, you rascallion, go, mind your duty; this gentleman and I
belong to the service; but be sure you look after that shy cock in
the slouched hat that sits in the corner of the coach.

I believe he's one of the rebels in disguise.'
'D--n her gooseberry wig!' said the corporal, when she was out of hearing.
'That gimlet-eyed jade--mother adjutant, as we call her--is a
greater plague to the regiment than prevot-marshal, sergeant-major,
and old Hubble-de-Shuff the colonel into the bargain.

--Come, Master Constable, let's see if this shy cock, as she calls
him' (who, by the way, was a Quaker from Leeds, with whom Mrs.

Nosebag had had some tart argument on the legality of bearing arms),
'will stand godfather to a sup of brandy, for your Yorkshire ale
is cold on my stomach.'

The vivacity of this good lady, as it helped Edward out of this scrape,
was like to have drawn him into one or two others.

In every town where they stopped, she wished to examine the CORPS
DE GARDE, if there was one, and once very narrowly missed introducing
Waverley to a recruiting-sergeant of his own regiment.

Then she Captain'd and Butler'd him till he was almost mad with
vexation and anxiety; and never was he more rejoiced in his life
at the termination of a journey, than when the arrival of the coach
in London freed him from the attentions of Madam Nosebag.

CHAPTER LXII

WHAT'S TO BE DONE NEXT?

It was twilight when they arrived in town; and having shaken off his
companions, and walked through a good many streets to avoid the
possibility of being traced by them, Edward took a hackney-coach
and drove to Colonel Talbot's house, in one of the principal squares
at the west end of the town.

That gentleman, by the death of relations, had succeeded since his
marriage to a large fortune, possessed considerable political interest,
and lived in what is called great style.

When Waverley knocked at his door, he found it at first difficult
to procure admittance, but at length was shown into an apartment
where the Colonel was at table.

Lady Emily, whose very beautiful features were still pallid from
indisposition, sat opposite to him.

The instant he heard Waverley's voice, he started up and embraced him.
'Frank Stanley, my dear boy, how d'ye do?--Emily, my love, this is
young Stanley.'

The blood started to the lady's cheek as she gave Waverley a
reception, in which courtesy was mingled with kindness, while her
trembling hand and faltering voice showed how much she was startled
and discomposed.

Dinner was hastily replaced, and while Waverley was engaged in refreshing
himself, the Colonel proceeded--'I wonder you have come here, Frank; the
doctors tell me the air of London is very bad for your complaints. You
should not have risked it.

But I am delighted to see you, and so is Emily, though I fear we
must not reckon upon your staying long.'

'Some particular business brought me up,' muttered Waverley.

'I supposed so, but I sha'n't allow you to stay long.

--Spontoon' (to an elderly military-looking servant out of livery),
'take away these things, and answer the bell yourself, if I ring.

Don't let any of the other fellows disturb us.

--My nephew and I have business to talk of.'

When the servants had retired, 'In the name of God, Waverley, what
has brought you here?

It may be as much as your life is worth.'
'Dear Mr.

Waverley,' said Lady Emily,' to whom I owe so much more than
acknowledgements can ever pity, how could you be so rash?'

'My father--my uncle--this paragraph,'--he handed the paper to Colonel
Talbot.

'I wish to Heaven' these scoundrels were condemned to be squeezed to
death in their own presses,' said Talbot. 'I am told there are not
less than a dozen of their papers now published in town, and no
wonder that they are obliged to invent lies to find sale for their
journals.

It is true, however, my dear Edward, that you have lost your father;
but as to this flourish of his unpleasant situation having grated
upon his spirits, and hurt his health--the truth is--for though it
is harsh to say so now, yet it will relieve your mind from the idea
of weighty responsibility--the truth then is, that Mr.

Richard Waverley, through this whole business, showed great want
of sensibility, both to your situation and that of your uncle; and
the last time I saw him, he told me, with great glee, that, as I
was so good as to take charge of your interests, he had thought it
best to patch up a separate negotiation for himself, and make his
peace with Government through some channels which former connexions
left still open to him.'

'And my uncle--my dear uncle?'

'Is in no danger whatever.

It is true' (looking at the date of the paper) 'there was a
foolish report some time ago to the purport here quoted, but it
is entirely false.

Sir Everard is gone down to Waverley-Honour, freed from all uneasiness,
unless upon your own account.

But you are in peril yourself--your name is in every proclamation--warrants
are out to apprehend you. How and when did you come here?'
Edward told his story at length, suppressing his quarrel with Fergus;
for being himself partial to Highlanders, he did not wish to give
any advantage to the Colonel's national prejudice against them.

'Are you sure it was your friend Glen's footboy you saw dead in
Clifton Moor?'

'Quite positive.'

'Then that little limb of the devil has cheated the gallows, for
cut-throat was written in his face; though' (turning to Lady Emily)
'it was a very handsome face too.

--But for you, Edward, I wish you would go down again to Cumberland,
or rather I wish you had never stirred from thence, for there is
an embargo on all the seaports, and a strict search for the adherents
of the Pretender; and the tongue of that confounded woman will wag
in her head like the clack of a mill, till somehow or other she
will detect Captain Butler to be a feigned personage,'
'Do you know anything,' asked Waverley, 'of my fellow traveller?'

'Her husband was my sergeant-major for six years; she was a buxom
widow, with a little money--he married her--was steady, and got on
by being a good drill.

I must send Spontoon to see what she is about; he will find her out
among the old regimental connexions.

To-morrow you must be indisposed, and keep your room from fatigue.

Lady Emily is to be your nurse, and Spontoon and I your attendants.

You bear the name of a near relation of mine, whom none of my present
people ever saw, except Spontoon; so there will be no immediate
danger.

So pray feel your head ache and your eyes grow heavy as soon as
possible, that you may be put upon the sick list; and, Emily, do
you order an apartment for Frank Stanley, with all the attention
which an invalid may require.'

In the morning the Colonel visited his guest.

--'Now,' said he, 'I have some good news for you.

Your reputation as a gentleman and officer is effectually cleared of
neglect of duty, and accession to the mutiny in Gardiner's regiment. I
have had a correspondence on this subject with a very zealous
friend of yours, your Scottish parson, Morton; his first letter was
addressed to Sir Everard; but I relieved the good Baronet of the
trouble of answering it.

You must know, that your freebooting acquaintance; Donald of the
Cave, has at length fallen into the hands of the Philistines.

He was driving off the cattle of a certain proprietor, called
Killan--something or other--' 
'Killancureit?'

'The same. Now, the gentleman being, it seems, a great farmer, and
having a special value for his breed of cattle--being, moreover, rather
of a timid disposition, had got a party of soldiers to protect his
property.

So Donald ran his head unawares into the lion's mouth, and was
defeated and made prisoner.

Being ordered for execution, his conscience was assailed on the one
hand by a Catholic priest,--on the other by your friend Morton.
He repulsed the Catholic chiefly on account of the doctrine of
extreme unction, which this economical gentleman considered as an
excessive waste of oil.

So his conversion from a state of impenitence fell to Mr.

Morton's share, who, I dare say, acquitted himself excellently, though,
I suppose, Donald made but a queer kind of Christian after all.

He confessed, however, before a magistrate--one Major Melville, who
seems to have been a correct, friendly sort of person--his full
intrigue with Houghton, explaining particularly how it was carried
on, and fully acquitting you of the least accession to it.

He also mentioned his rescuing you from the hands of the volunteer
officer, and sending you, by orders of the Pret--Chevalier, I mean
as a prisoner to Doune, from whence he understood you were carried
prisoner to Edinburgh.

These are particulars which cannot but tell in your favour. He hinted
that he had been employed to deliver and protect you, and rewarded
for doing so; but he would not confess by whom, alleging, that,
though he would not have minded breaking any ordinary oath to satisfy
the curiosity of Mr.

Morton, to whose pious admonitions he owed so much, yet in the
present case he had been sworn to silence upon the edge of his dirk,
[See Note 33.] which, it seems, constituted, in his opinion, an
inviolable obligation.'

'And what has become of him?'
'Oh, he was hanged at Stirling after the rebels raised the siege,
with his lieutenant, and four plaids besides; he having the advantage
of a gallows more lofty than his friends.'

"Any message I can give him?" asked Drummond.

"No, thanks," said Stanning.

"Sure?"

"Quite, thanks."

"I don't think it's worth while your waiting. He may not be in for some
time."

"No, perhaps not. Thanks. So long."

"So long."

Stanning turned on his heel, and walked away down the passage. Drummond
went back into his study, and shut the door.

The expedition, deprived of its commander-in-chief, paused irresolutely
outside. Then it followed its leader's example.

There was peace in the passage.


XV

THE ROUT AT RIPTON


On the Saturday following this episode, the first fifteen travelled to
Ripton to play the return match with that school on its own ground. Of
the two Ripton matches, the one played at Wrykyn was always the big
event of the football year; but the other came next in importance, and
the telegram which was despatched to the school shop at the close of
the game was always awaited with anxiety. This year Wrykyn looked
forward to the return match with a certain amount of apathy, due partly
to the fact that the school was in a slack, unpatriotic state, and
partly to the hammering the team had received in the previous term,
when the Ripton centre three-quarters had run through and scored with
monotonous regularity. "We're bound to get sat on," was the general
verdict of the school.

Allardyce, while thoroughly agreeing with this opinion, did his best to
conceal the fact from the rest of the team. He had certainly done his
duty by them. Every day for the past fortnight the forwards and
outsides had turned out to run and pass, and on the Saturdays there had
been matches with Corpus, Oxford, and the Cambridge Old Wrykinians. In
both games the school had been beaten. In fact, it seemed as if they
could only perform really well when they had no opponents. To see the
three-quarters racing down the field (at practice) and scoring
innumerable (imaginary) tries, one was apt to be misled into
considering them a fine quartette. But when there was a match, all the
beautiful dash and precision of the passing faded away, and the last
thing they did was to run straight. Barry was the only one of the four
who played the game properly.

But, as regarded condition, there was nothing wrong with the team. Even
Trevor could not have made them train harder; and Allardyce in his more
sanguine moments had a shadowy hope that the Ripton score might, with
care, be kept in the teens.

Barry had bought a _Sportsman_ at the station, and he unfolded it
as the train began to move. Searching the left-hand column of the middle
page, as we all do when we buy the _Sportsman_ on Saturday--to
see how our names look in print, and what sort of a team the enemy has
got--he made a remarkable discovery. At the same moment Drummond, on
the other side of the carriage, did the same.

"I say," he said, "they must have had a big clear-out at Ripton. Have
you seen the team they've got out today?"

"I was just looking at it," said Barry.

"What's up with it?" inquired Allardyce. "Let's have a look."

"They've only got about half their proper team. They've got a different
back--Grey isn't playing."

"Both their centres are, though," said Drummond.

"More fun for us, Drum., old chap," said Attell. "I'm going home again.
Stop the train."

Drummond said nothing. He hated Attell most when he tried to be
facetious.

"Dunn isn't playing, nor is Waite," said Barry, "so they haven't got
either of their proper halves. I say, we might have a chance of doing
something today."

"Of course we shall," said Allardyce. "You've only got to buck up and
we've got them on toast."

The atmosphere in the carriage became charged with optimism. It seemed
a simple thing to defeat a side which was practically a Ripton "A"
team. The centre three-quarters were there still, it was true, but
Allardyce and Drummond ought to be able to prevent the halves ever
getting the ball out to them. The team looked on those two unknown
halves as timid novices, who would lose their heads at the kick-off. As
a matter of fact, the system of football teaching at Ripton was so
perfect, and the keenness so great, that the second fifteen was nearly
as good as the first every year. But the Wrykyn team did not know this,
with the exception of Allardyce, who kept his knowledge to himself; and
they arrived at Ripton jaunty and confident.

Keith, the Ripton captain, who was one of the centre three-quarters who
had made so many holes in the Wrykyn defence in the previous term, met
the team at the station, and walked up to the school with them,
carrying Allardyce's bag.

"You seem to have lost a good many men at Christmas," said Allardyce.
"We were reading the _Sportsman_ in the train. Apparently, you've
only got ten of your last term's lot. Have they all left?"

The Ripton captain grinned ruefully.

"Not much," he replied. "They're all here. All except Dunn. You
remember Dunn? Little thick-set chap who played half. He always had his
hair quite tidy and parted exactly in the middle all through the game."

"Oh, yes, I remember Dunn. What's he doing now?"

"Gone to Coopers Hill. Rot, his not going to the Varsity. He'd have
walked into his blue."

Allardyce agreed. He had marked Dunn in the match of the previous term,
and that immaculate sportsman had made things not a little warm for
him.

"Where are all the others, then?" he asked. "Where's that other half of
yours? And the rest of the forwards?"

"Mumps," said Keith.

"What!"

"It's a fact. Rot, isn't it? We've had a regular bout of it. Twenty
fellows got it altogether. Naturally, four of those were in the team.
That's the way things happen. I only wonder the whole scrum didn't have
it."

"What beastly luck," said Allardyce. "We had measles like that a couple
of years ago in the summer term, and had to play the Incogs and Zingari
with a sort of second eleven. We got mopped."

"That's what we shall get this afternoon, I'm afraid," said Keith.

"Oh, no," said Allardyce. "Of course you won't."

And, as events turned out, that was one of the truest remarks he had
ever made in his life.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the drawbacks to playing Ripton on its own ground was the crowd.
Another was the fact that one generally got beaten. But your sportsman
can put up with defeat. He sent to order Donald Bean to attend him; but
that cautious freebooter, who well understood the value of a separate
command, instead of joining, sent various apologies which the pressure
of the times compelled Fergus to admit as current, though not
without the internal resolution of being revenged on him for his
procrastination, time and place convenient. However, as he could not
amend the matter, he issued orders to Donald to descend into the Low
Country, drive the soldiers from Tully-Veolan, and, paying all respect
to the mansion of the Baron, to take his abode somewhere near
it, for protection of his daughter and family, and to harass and drive
away any of the armed volunteers, or small parties of military,
which he might find moving about the vicinity.

As this charge formed a sort of roving commission, which Donald proposed
to interpret in the way most advantageous to himself, as he was
relieved from the immediate terrors of Fergus, and as he had, from
former secret services, some interest in the councils of the
Chevalier, he resolved to make hay while the sun shone.

He achieved, without difficulty, the task of driving the soldiers from
Tully-Veolan; but although he did not venture to encroach upon the
interior of the family, or to disturb Miss Rose, being unwilling to
make himself a powerful enemy in the Chevalier's army,

For well he knew the Baron's wrath was deadly;
yet he set about to raise contributions and exactions upon the
tenantry, and otherwise to turn the war to his own advantage.

Meanwhile he mounted the white cockade, and waited upon Rose with a pretext
of great devotion for the service in which her father was engaged, and
many apologies for the freedom he must necessarily use for the
support of his people. It was at this moment that Rose learned, by
open-mouthed fame, with all sorts of exaggeration, that Waverley
had killed the smith of Cairnvreckan, in an attempt to arrest him;
had been cast into a dungeon by Major Melville of Cairnvreckan, and
was to be executed by martial law within three days.

In the agony which these tidings excited, she proposed to Donald
Bean the rescue of the prisoner.

       It was the very sort of service which he was desirous to undertake,
judging it might constitute a merit of such a nature as would make
amends for any peccadilloes which he might be guilty of in the
country.

He had the art, however, pleading all the while duty and discipline,
to hold off, until poor Rose, in the extremity of her distress, offered
to bribe him to the enterprise with some valuable jewels which had been
her mother's.

Donald Bean, who had served in France, knew, and perhaps over-estimated,
the value of these trinkets. But he also perceived Rose's apprehensions
of its being discovered that she had parted with her jewels for
Waverley's liberation.

Resolved this scruple should not part him and the treasure, he voluntarily
offered to take an oath that he would never mention Miss Rose's
share in the transaction; and foreseeing convenience in keeping the
oath, and no probable advantage in breaking it, he took the engagement--in
order, as he told his lieutenant, to deal handsomely by the young
lady--in the only form and mode which, by a mental paction with himself,
he considered as binding--he swore secrecy upon his drawn dirk. He was
the more especially moved to this act of good faith by some attentions
that Miss Bradwardine showed to his daughter Alice, which, while they
gained the heart of the mountain damsel, highly gratified the pride
of her father.

Alice, who could now speak a little English, was very communicative in
return for Rose's kindness, readily confided to her the whole
papers respecting the intrigue with Gardiner's regiment, of which
she was the depositary, and as readily undertook, at her instance,
to restore them to Waverley without her father's knowledge.

'For they may oblige the bonnie young lady and the handsome young
gentleman,' said Alice, 'and what use has my father for a whin bits
o' scarted paper?'

The reader is aware that she took an opportunity of executing this
purpose on the eve of Waverley's leaving the glen.

How Donald executed his enterprise, the reader is aware.

But the expulsion of the military from Tully-Veolan had given alarm,
and, while he was lying in wait for Gilfillan, a strong party, such
as Donald did not care to face, was sent to drive back the insurgents
in their turn, to encamp there, and to protect the country.

The officer, a gentleman and a disciplinarian, neither intruded
himself on Miss Bradwardine, whose unprotected situation he respected,
nor permitted his soldiers to commit any breach of discipline.

He formed a little camp, upon an eminence near the house of
Tully-Veolan, and placed proper guards at the passes in the vicinity.

This unwelcome news reached Donald Bean Lean as he was returning to
Tully-Veolan. Determined, however, to obtain the guerdon of his labour,
he resolved, since approach to Tully-Veolan was impossible; to deposit
his prisoner in Janet's cottage--a place the very existence of which
could hardly have been suspected even by those who had long lived
In the vicinity, unless they had been guided thither, and which was
utterly unknown to Waverley himself. This effected, he claimed and
received his reward. Waverley's illness was an event which deranged all
their calculations.

Donald was obliged to leave the neighbourhood with his people, and to
seek more free course for his adventures elsewhere. At Rose's earnest
entreaty, he left an old man, a herbalist, who was supposed to understand
a little of medicine, to attend Waverley during his illness.

In the meanwhile, new and fearful doubts started in Rose's
mind. They were suggested by old Janet, who insisted, that a reward
having been offered for the apprehension of Waverley, and his own personal
effects being so valuable, there was no saying to what breach of
faith Donald might be tempted. In an agony of grief and terror, Rose
took the daring resolution of explaining to the Prince himself the
danger in which Mr.
Waverley stood, judging that, both as a politician, and a man of
honour and humanity, Charles Edward would interest himself to
prevent his falling into the hands of the opposite party.

This letter she at first thought of sending anonymously, but
naturally feared it would not, in that case, be credited. She therefore
subscribed her name, though with reluctance and terror, and consigned
it in charge to a young man, who, at leaving his farm to join the
Chevalier's army, made it his petition to her to have some sort of
credentials to the Adventurer, from whom he hoped to obtain a
commission.

The letter reached Charles Edward on his descent to the Lowlands,
and, aware of the political importance of having it supposed that
he was in correspondence with the English Jacobites, he caused the most
positive orders to be transmitted to Donald Bean Lean, to transmit
Waverley, safe and uninjured in person or effects, to the governor of
Doune Castle.

The freebooter durst not disobey, for the army of the Prince was now so
near him that punishment might have followed; besides, he was a
politician as well as a robber, and was unwilling to cancel the
interest created through former secret services, by being refractory
on this occasion.

He therefore made a virtue of necessity, and transmitted orders to his
lieutenant to convey Edward to Doune, which was safely accomplished
in the mode mentioned in a former chapter. The governor of Doune
was directed to send him to Edinburgh as a prisoner, because the
Prince was apprehensive that Waverley, if set at liberty, might have
resumed his purpose of returning to England, without affording him an
opportunity of a personal interview. In this, indeed, he acted by the
advice of the Chieftain of Glennaquoich, with whom it may be remembered
the Chevalier communicated upon the mode of disposing of Edward, though
without telling him how he came to learn the place of his confinement.

This, indeed, Charles Edward considered as a lady's secret; for although
Rose's letter was couched in the most cautious and general
terms, and professed to be written merely from motives of humanity,
and zeal for the Prince's service, yet she expressed so anxious a
wish that she should not be known to have interfered, that the Chevalier
was induced to suspect the deep interest which she took in Waverley's
safety. This conjecture, which was well founded, led, however, to
false inferences.

For the emotion which Edward displayed on approaching Flora and
Rose at the ball of Holyrood, was placed by the Chevalier to the
account of the latter, and he concluded that the Baron's views about
the settlement of his property, or some such obstacle, thwarted
their mutual inclinations.

Common fame, it is true, frequently gave Waverley to Miss Mac-Ivor;
but the Prince knew that common fame is very prodigal in such gifts;
and, watching attentively the behaviour of the ladies towards
Waverley, he had no doubt that the young Englishman had no interest
with Flora, and was beloved by Rose Bradwardine.

Desirous to bind Waverley to his service, and wishing also to do a
kind and friendly action, the Prince next assailed the Baron on the
subject of settling his estate upon his daughter.

Mr.

Bradwardine acquiesced; but the consequence was, that Fergus was
immediately induced to prefer his double suit for a wife and an earldom,
which the Prince rejected in the manner we have seen. The Chevalier,
constantly engaged in his own multiplied affairs, had not hitherto
sought any explanation with Waverley, though often meaning to do so.
But after Fergus's declaration, he saw the necessity of appearing neutral
between the rivals, devoutly hoping that the matter, which now seemed
fraught with the seeds of strife, might be permitted to lie over till
the termination of the expedition. When on the march to Derby,
Fergus, being questioned concerning his quarrel with Waverley, alleged
as the cause, that Edward was desirous of retracting the suit he made
to his sister, the Chevalier plainly told him, that he had himself
observed Miss Mac-Ivor's behaviour to Waverley, and that he was
convinced Fergus was under the influence of a mistake in judging
of Waverley's conduct, who, he had every reason to believe, was
engaged to Miss Bradwardine.

The quarrel which ensued between Edward and the chieftain is, I hope,
still in the remembrance of the reader. These circumstances will serve
to explain such points of our narrative as, according to the custom of
story-tellers, we deemed it fit to leave unexplained, for the purpose
of exciting the reader's curiosity.

When Janet had once finished the leading facts of this narrative,
Waverley was easily enabled to apply the clue which they afforded,
to other mazes of the labyrinth in which he had been engaged. To
Rose Bradwardine, then, he owed the life which he now thought he could
willingly have laid down to serve her. A little reflection convinced
him, however, that to live for her sake was more convenient and
agreeable, and that, being possessed of independence, she might share
it with him either in foreign countries or in his own. The pleasure of
being allied to a man of the Baron's high worth, and who was so much
valued by his uncle Sir Everard, was also an agreeable consideration,
had anything been wanting to recommend the match. His absurdities,
which had appeared grotesquely ludicrous during his prosperity, seemed,
in the sunset of his fortune, to be harmonized and assimilated with
the noble features of his character, so as to add peculiarity
without exciting ridicule.

His mind occupied with such projects of future happiness, Edward sought
Little Veolan, the habitation of Mr. Duncan Macwheeble.

CHAPTER LXVI
Now is Cupid like a child of conscience--he makes restitution.

--SHAKESPEARE.

Mr. Duncan Macwheeble, no longer Commissary or Bailie, though still
enjoying the empty name of the latter dignity, had escaped proscription
by an early secession from the insurgent party and by his insignificance.

Edward found him in his office, immersed among papers and
accounts.
Before him was a large bicker of oatmeal-porridge, and at the side
thereof, a horn-spoon and a bottle of two-penny.

Eagerly running his eye over a voluminous law-paper, he from time
to time shovelled an immense spoonful of these nutritive viands
into his capacious mouth. A pot-bellied Dutch bottle of brandy
which stood by, intimated either that this honest limb of the law
had taken his morning already, or that he meant to season his
porridge with such digestive; or perhaps both circumstances might
reasonably be inferred.

His night-cap and morning-gown had whilome been of tartan, but,
equally cautious and frugal, the honest Bailie had got them dyed
black, lest their original ill-omened colour might remind his
visitors of his unlucky excursion to Derby.

To sum up the picture, his face was daubed with snuff up to the eyes,
and his fingers with ink up to the knuckles. He looked dubiously
at Waverley as he approached the little green rail which fenced his
desk and stool from the approach of the vulgar. Nothing could
give the Bailie more annoyance than the idea of his acquaintance
being claimed by any of the unfortunate gentlemen who were now so
much more likely to need assistance than to afford profit.

But this was the rich young Englishman--who knew what might be his
situation?

--he was the Baron's friend too--what was to be done?

While these reflections gave an air of absurd perplexity to the
poor man's visage, Waverley, reflecting on the communication he was
about to make to him, of a nature so ridiculously contrasted with
the appearance of the individual, could not help bursting out
a-laughing, as he checked the propensity to exclaim with Syphax--
Cato's a proper person to entrust A love-tale with.

As Mr.

Macwheeble had no idea of any person laughing heartily who was
either encircled by peril or oppressed by poverty, the hilarity of
Edward's countenance greatly relieved the embarrassment of his own,
and, giving him a tolerably hearty welcome to Little Veolan, he
asked what he would choose for breakfast.

His visitor had, in the first place, something for his private ear,
and begged leave to bolt the door.

Duncan by no means liked this precaution, which savoured of danger
to be apprehended; but he could not now draw back.

Convinced he might trust this man, as he could make it his interest
to be faithful, Edward communicated his present situation and future
schemes to Macwheeble. The wily agent listened with apprehension
when he found Waverley was still in a state of proscription--was
somewhat comforted by learning that he had a passport--rubbed his
hands with glee when he mentioned the amount of his present
fortune--opened huge eyes when he heard the brilliancy of his future
expectations; but when he expressed his intention to share them
with Miss Rose Bradwardine, ecstasy had almost deprived the honest
man of his senses.

The Bailie started from his three-footed stool like the Pythoness
from her tripod; flung his best wig out of the window, because the
block on which it was placed stood in the way of his career; chucked
his cap to the ceiling, caught it as it fell; whistled Tullochgorum;
danced a Highland fling with inimitable grace and agility; and then
threw himself exhausted into a chair, exclaiming, 'Lady Wauverley!

--ten thousand a year, the least penny!--Lord preserve my poor understanding!'

'Amen, with all my heart,' said Waverley;--'but now, Mr. Macwheeble,
let us proceed to business.' This word had a somewhat sedative effect,
but the Bailie's head, as he expressed himself, was still 'in the
bees.' He mended his pen, however, marked half a dozen sheets of
paper with an ample marginal fold, whipped down Dallas of St. Martin's
STYLES from a shelf, where that venerable work roosted with Stair's
INSTITUTIONS, Dirleton's DOUBTS, Balfour's PRACTIQUES, and a parcel of
old account-books-opened the volume at the article Contract of Marriage,
and prepared to make what he called a 'sma' minute, to prevent
parties frae resiling.

With some difficulty, Waverley made him comprehend that he was going
a little too fast.

He explained to him that he should want his assistance, in the first
place, to make his residence safe for the time, by writing to the officer
at Tully-Veolan, that Mr. Stanley, an English gentleman, nearly
related to Colonel Talbot, was upon a visit of business at Mr.

Macwheeble's, and, knowing the state of the country, had sent his
passport for Captain Foster's inspection. This produced a polite
answer from the officer, with an invitation to Mr. Stanley to dine
with him, which was declined (as may easily be supposed), under pretence
of business.

Waverley's next request was, that Mr. Macwheeble would dispatch a
man and horse to --, the post-town, at which Colonel Talbot was to
address him, with directions to wait there until the post should bring
a letter for Mr. Stanley, and then to forward it to Little Veolan
with all speed.

In a moment, the Bailie was in search of his apprentice (or servitor,
as he was called Sixty Years since), Jock Scriever, and in
not much greater space of time, Jock was on the back of the white
pony.

'Tak care ye guide him weel, sir, for he's aye been short in the wind
since--ahem--lord be gude to me!' (in a low voice) 'I was gaun to come
out wi'--since I rode whip and spur to fetch the Chevalier to redd
Mr.

Wauverley and Vich Ian Vohr; and an uncanny coup I gat for my pains.--Lord
forgie your honour! I might hae broken my neck--but troth it was in a
venture, mae ways nor ane; but this maks amends for a'. Lady Wauverley!--ten
thousand a year!--Lord be gude unto me!'
'But you forget, Mr. Macwheeble, we want the Baron's consent--the
lady's--'

'Never fear, I'se be caution for them--I'se gie you my personal warrandice--ten
thousand a year! it dings Balmawhapple out and out--a year's rent's worth
a' Balmawhapple, fee and life-rent! Lord make us thankful!'
To turn the current of his feelings, Edward inquired if he had heard
anything lately of the Chieftain of Glennaquoich?

'Not one word,' answered Macwheeble, 'but that he was still in Carlisle
Castle, and was soon to be panelled for his life. I dinna wish the
young gentleman ill,' he said, 'but I hope that they that hae got him
will keep him, and no let him back to this Hieland border to plague
us wi' blackmail, and a' manner o' violent, wrongous, and masterfu'
oppression and spoliation, both by himself and others of his
causing, sending, and hounding out:--and he couldna tak care o'
the siller when he had gotten it neither, but flung it a' into yon
idle quean's lap at Edinburgh--but light come light gane.

For my part, I never wish to see a kilt in the country again,
nor a red-coat, nor a gun, for that matter, unless it were to shoot a
paitrick:--they're a' tarr'd wi' ae stick. And when they have done
ye wrang, even when ya hae gotten decreet of spuilzie, oppression, and
violent profits against them, what better are ye?

--they hae na a plack to pay ye; ye need never extract it.'

With such discourse, and the intervening topics of business, the
time passed until dinner, Macwheeble meanwhile promising to devise
some mode of introducing Edward at the Duchran, where Rose at present
resided, without risk of danger or suspicion; which seemed no very
easy task, since the laird was a very zealous friend to Government.

--The poultry-yard had been laid under requisition, and cockyleeky and
Scotch collops soon reeked in the Bailie's little parlour.

The landlord's corkscrew was just introduced into the muzzle of a
pint-bottle of claret (cribbed possibly from the cellars of Tully-Veolan),
when the sight of the grey pony, passing the window at full trot,
induced the Bailie, but with due precaution, to place it aside for
the moment.

       Enter Jock Scriever with a packet for Mr.

Stanley: it is Colonel Talbot's seal; and Edward's fingers tremble
as he undoes it. Two official papers, folded, signed, and sealed in
all formality, drop out. They were hastily picked up by the Bailie,
who had a natural respect for everything resembling a deed, and, glancing
slily on their titles, his eyes, or rather spectacles, are greeted
with 'Protection by His Royal Highness to the person of Cosmo Comyne
Bradwardine, Esq. of that ilk, commonly called Baron of Bradwardine,
forfeited for his accession to the late rebellion.'

The other proves to be a protection of the same tenor in favour of
Edward Waverley, Esq.

Colonel Talbot's letter was in these words:--

'MY DEAR EDWARD,
'I am just arrived here, and yet I have finished my business; it has
cost me some trouble though, as you shall hear.

I waited upon his Royal Highness immediately on my arrival, and
found him in no very good humour for my purpose.

Three or four Scotch gentlemen were just leaving his levee.

After he had expressed himself to me very courteously; "Would you think
it," he said, "Talbot? here have been half a dozen of the most
respectable gentlemen, and best friends to Government north of the
Forth,--Major Melville of Cairnvreckan, Rubrick of Duchran, and
others,--who have fairly wrung from me, by their downright importunity,
a present protection, and the promise of a future pardon, for that
stubborn old rebel whom they call Baron of Bradwardine. They allege
that his high personal character, and the clemency which he showed to
such of our people as fell into the rebels' hands, should weigh in his
favour; especially as the loss of his estate is likely to be a
severe enough punishment. Rubrick has undertaken to keep him at
his own house till things are settled in the country; but it's a little
hard to be forced in a manner to pardon such a mortal enemy to the House
of Brunswick."
He seemed to bear a grudge against the entire race.

Rigby resumed. He was a pacific person, and hated anything resembling
rows in the house. He had been sorry for Sheen, and would have been
glad to give him a chance of setting himself on his legs again.

"You see." he said, "this is what I mean. We either recognise Sheen's
existence or we don't. Follow? We can't get him to win this Cup for us,
and then, when he has done it, go on cutting him and treating him as if
he didn't belong to the house at all. I know he let the house down
awfully badly in that business, but still, if he lifts the Fives Cup,
that'll square the thing. If he does anything to give the house a
leg-up, he must be treated as if he'd never let it down at all."

"Of course," said Barry. "I vote we send him in for the Fives."

"What rot!" said Mill. "It isn't as if none of the rest of us played
fives."

"We aren't as good as Sheen," said Barry.

"I don't care. I call it rot letting a chap like him represent the
house at anything. If he were the best fives-player in the world I
wouldn't let him play for the house."

Rigby was impressed by his vehemence. He hesitated.

"After all, Barry," he said, "I don't know. Perhaps it might--you see,
he did--well, I really think we'd better have somebody else. The house
has got its knife into Sheen too much just at present to want him as a
representative. There'd only be sickness, don't you think? Who else is
there?"

So it came about that Menzies was chosen to uphold the house in the
Fives Courts. Sheen was not surprised. But it was not pleasant. He was
certainly having bad luck in his attempts to do something for the
house. Perhaps if he won the Gotford they might show a little
enthusiasm. The Gotford always caused a good deal of interest in the
school. It was the best thing of its kind in existence at Wrykyn, and
even the most abandoned loafers liked to feel that their house had won
it. It was just possible, thought Sheen, that a brilliant win might
change the feelings of Seymour's towards him. He did not care for the
applause of the multitude more than a boy should, but he preferred it
very decidedly to the cut direct.

Things went badly for Seymour's. Never in the history of the house, or,
at any rate, in the comparatively recent history of the house, had
there been such a slump in athletic trophies. To begin with, they were
soundly beaten in the semi-final for the House football cup by
Allardyce's lot. With Drummond away, there was none to mark the captain
of the School team at half, and Allardyce had raced through in a manner
that must have compensated him to a certain extent for the poor time he
had had in first fifteen matches. The game had ended in a Seymourite
defeat by nineteen points to five.

Nor had the Boxing left the house in a better position. Linton fought
pluckily in the Light-Weights, but went down before Stanning, after
beating a representative of Templar's. Mill did not show up well in the
Heavy-Weights, and was defeated in his first bout. Seymour's were
reduced to telling themselves how different it all would have been if
Drummond had been there.

Sheen watched the Light-Weight contests, and nearly danced with
irritation. He felt that he could have eaten Stanning. 'Danger!'
'Yes, sir, danger. When I left England, your uncle and father had
been obliged to find bail to answer a charge of treason, to which
they were only admitted by the exertion of the most powerful
interest.

I came down to Scotland, with the sole purpose of rescuing you from the
gulf into which you have precipitated yourself; nor can I estimate
the consequences to your family, of your having openly joined the
rebellion, since the very suspicion of your intention was so perilous
to them.

Most deeply do I regret that I did not meet you before this last and
fatal error.'
'I am really ignorant,' said Waverley, in a tone of reserve, 'why
Colonel Talbot should have taken so much trouble on my account.'

'Mr. Waverley,' answered Talbot, 'I am dull at apprehending irony; and
therefore I shall answer your words according to their plain
meaning.

I am indebted to your uncle for benefits greater than those which a son
owes to a father. I acknowledge to him the duty of a son; and as I
know there is no manner in which I can requite his kindness so
well as by serving you, I will serve you, if possible, whether you
will permit me or no.

The personal obligation which you have this day laid me under (although
in common estimation as great as one human being can bestow on
another) adds nothing to my zeal on your behalf; nor can that zeal
be abated by any coolness with which you may please to receive it.'

'Your intentions may be kind, sir,' said Waverley, drily; 'but your
language is harsh, or at least peremptory.'
'On my return to England,' continued Colonel Talbot, 'after long
absence, I found your uncle, Sir Everard Waverley, in the custody
of a king's messenger, in consequence of the suspicion brought upon
him by your conduct.

He is my oldest friend--how often shall I repeat it?--my best
benefactor; he sacrificed his own views of happiness to mine--he never
uttered a word, he never harboured a thought, that benevolence
itself might not have thought or spoken. I found this man in confinement,
rendered harsher to him by his habits of life, his natural dignity of
feeling, and--forgive me, Mr. Waverley--by the cause through which
this calamity had come upon him. I cannot disguise from you my feelings
upon this occasion; they were most painfully unfavourable to you. Having,
by my family interest, which you probably know is not inconsiderable,
succeeded in obtaining Sir Everard's release, I set out for Scotland.

I saw Colonel Gardiner, a man whose fate alone is sufficient to
render this insurrection for ever execrable. In the course of conversation
with him, I found, that, from late circumstances, from a
re-examination of the persons engaged in the mutiny, and from his original
good opinion of your character, he was much softened towards you;
and I doubted not, that if I could be so fortunate as to discover
you, all might yet be well.

But this unnatural rebellion has ruined all.

I have, for the first time in a long and active military life, seen Britons
disgrace themselves by a panic flight, and that before a foe without
either arms or discipline: and now I find the heir of my dearest
friend--the son, I may say, of his affections--sharing a triumph,
for which he ought the first to have blushed.

Why should I lament Gardiner?

his lot was happy, compared to mine!'

There was so much dignity in Colonel Talbot's manner, such a mixture
of military pride and manly sorrow, and the news of Sir Everard's
imprisonment was told in so deep a tone of feeling, that Edward
stood mortified, abashed, and distressed in presence of the prisoner,
who owed to him his life not many hours before.

He was not sorry when Fergus interrupted their conference a second
time.

'His Royal Highness commands Mr.

Waverley's attendance.' Colonel Talbot threw upon Edward a reproachful
glance, which did not escape the quick eye of the Highland Chief.
'His immediate attendance,' he repeated, with considerable emphasis.
Waverley turned again towards the Colonel.

'We shall meet again,' he said; 'in the meanwhile, every possible
accommodation'--
'I desire none,' said the Colonel; 'let me fare like the meanest of those
brave men, who, on this day of calamity, have preferred wounds
and captivity to flight; I would, almost exchange places with one of
those who have fallen, to know that my words have made a suitable
impression on your mind.'
'Let Colonel Talbot be carefully secured,' said Fergus to the Highland
officer, who commanded the guard over the prisoners; 'it is the Prince's
particular command; he is a prisoner of the utmost importance.'
'But let him want no accommodation suitable to his rank,' said
Waverley.

'Consistent always with secure custody,' reiterated Fergus. The
officer signified his acquiescence in both commands, and Edward
followed Fergus to the garden-gate, where Callum Beg, with three
saddle-horses, awaited them.

Turning his head, he saw Colonel Talbot reconducted to his place of
confinement by a file of Highlanders; he lingered on the threshold
of the door, and made a signal with his hand towards Waverley, as if
enforcing the language he had held towards him.

'Horses,' said Fergus, as he mounted, 'are now as plenty as blackberries;
every man may have them for the catching. Come, let Callum
adjust your stirrups, and let us to Pinkie-house [Charles Edward took
up his quarters after the battle at Pinkie-house, adjoining to
Musselburgh.] as fast as these CI-DEVANT dragoon-horses choose to carry
us.'

CHAPTER L

RATHER UNIMPORTANT

'I was turned back,' said Fergus to Edward, as they galloped from Preston
to Pinkie-house, 'by a message from the Prince. But, I suppose, you
know the value of this most noble Colonel Talbot as a prisoner. He
is held one of the best officers among the red-coats; a special
friend and favourite of the Elector himself, and of that dreadful
hero, the Duke of Cumberland, who has been summoned from his triumphs
at Fontenoy, to come over and devour us poor Highlanders alive.

Has he been telling you how the bells of St.

James's ring?

Not "turn again, Whittington," like those of Bow, in the days of
yore?'

'Fergus!' said Waverley, with a reproachful look.

'Nay, I cannot tell what to make of you,' answered the Chief of Mac-Ivor,
'you are blown about with every wind of doctrine. Here have we gained a
victory, unparalleled in history--and your behaviour is praised
by every living mortal to the skies--and the Prince is eager to
thank you in person--and all our beauties of the White Rose are
pulling caps for you,--and you, the PREUX CHEVALIER of the day, are
stooping on your horse's neck like a butter-woman riding to market,
and looking as black as a funeral!'

'I am sorry for poor Colonel Gardiner's death: he was once very kind
to me.'
'Why, then, be sorry for five minutes, and then be glad again; his chance
to-day may be ours to-morrow. And what does it signify?

--the next best thing to victory is honourable death; but it is a
PIS-ALLER, and one would rather a foe had it than one's self.'

'But Colonel Talbot has informed me that my father and uncle are both
imprisoned by government on my account.'

'We'll put in bail, my boy; old Andrew Ferrara [See Note 29.] shall
lodge his security; and I should like to see him put to justify it
in Westminster Hall!'

'Nay, they are already at liberty, upon bail of a more civic disposition.'

'Then why is thy noble spirit cast down, Edward? Dost think that the
Elector's Ministers are such doves as to set their enemies at
liberty at this critical moment, if they could or durst confine and
punish them?

Assure thyself that either they have no charge against your relations
on which they can continue their imprisonment, or else they are
afraid of our friends, the jolly cavaliers of old England.

At any rate, you need not be apprehensive upon their account; and
we will find some means of conveying to them assurances of your safety.'

Edward was silenced, but not satisfied, with these reasons. He had now
been more than once shocked at the small degree of sympathy which Fergus
exhibited for the feelings even of those whom he loved, if they did
not correspond with his own mood at the time, and more especially
if they thwarted him while earnest in a favourite pursuit.

Fergus sometimes indeed observed that he had offended Waverley,
but, always intent upon some favourite plan or project of his own,
he was never sufficiently aware of the extent or duration of his
displeasure, so that the reiteration of these petty offences somewhat
cooled the volunteer's extreme attachment to his officer.

The Chevalier received Waverley with his usual favour, and paid him
many compliments on his distinguished bravery. He then took him apart,
made many inquiries concerning Colonel Talbot, and when he had received
all the information which Edward was able to give concerning him and
his connexions, he proceeded,--'I cannot but think, Mr. Waverley, that
since this gentleman is so particularly connected with our worthy and
excellent friend, Sir Everard Waverley, and since his lady is of the
house of Blandeville, whose devotion to the true and loyal principles
of the Church of England is so generally known, the Colonel's own
private sentiments cannot be unfavourable to us, whatever mask he may
have assumed to accommodate himself to the times.'

'If I am to judge from the language he this day held to me, I am
under the necessity of differing widely from your Royal Highness.'

'Well, it is worth making a trial at least. I therefore entrust you with
the charge of Colonel Talbot, with power to act concerning him as you
think most advisable;--and I hope you will find means of ascertaining
what are his real dispositions towards our Royal Father's restoration.'

'I am convinced,' said Waverley, bowing, 'that if Colonel Talbot chooses
to grant his parole, it may be securely depended upon; but if he
refuses it, I trust your Royal Highness will devolve on some other
person than the nephew of his friend, the task of laying him under
the necessary restraint.'

'I will trust him with no person but you,' said the Prince, smiling, but
peremptorily repeating his mandate: 'it is of importance to my
service that there should appear to be a good intelligence between
you, even if you are unable to gain his confidence in earnest.

You will therefore receive him into your quarters, and in
case he declines giving his parole, you must apply for a proper
guard. I beg you will go about this directly. We return to Edinburgh
to-morrow.'
Being thus remanded to the vicinity of Preston, Waverley lost the
Baron of Bradwardine's solemn act of homage.

So little, however, was he at this time in love with vanity, that
he had quite forgotten the ceremony in which Fergus had laboured to
engage his curiosity.

But next day a formal GAZETTE was circulated, containing a detailed account
of the battle of Gladsmuir, as the Highlanders chose to denominate
their victory.

It concluded with an account of the Court afterwards held by the
Chevalier at Pinkie-house, which contained this among other high-flown
descriptive paragraphs:

'Since that fatal treaty which annihilates Scotland as an independent
nation, it has not been our happiness to see her princes receive,
and her nobles discharge, those acts of feudal homage, which, founded
upon the splendid actions of Scottish valour, recall the memory of
her early history, with the manly and chivalrous simplicity of the
ties which united to the Crown the homage of the warriors by whom
it was repeatedly upheld and defended.

But on the evening of the 20th, our memories were refreshed with
one of those ceremonies which belong to the ancient days of Scotland's
glory.

After the circle was formed, Cosmo Comyne Bradwardine, of that ilk,
colonel in the service, &c.

&c. &c., came before the Prince, attended by Mr. D. Macwheeble, the Bailie
of his ancient barony of Bradwardine (who, we understand, has
been-lately named a commissary), and, under form of instrument,
claimed permission to perform, to the person of his Royal Highness,
as representing his father, the service used and wont, for which,
under a charter of Robert Bruce (of which the original was produced
and inspected by the Masters of his Royal Highness's Chancery, for
the time being), the claimant held the barony of Bradwardine, and
lands of Tully-Veolan.

His claim being admitted and registered, his Royal Highness having
placed his foot upon a cushion, the Baron of Bradwardine, kneeling
upon his right knee, proceeded to undo the latchet of the brogue,
or low-heeled Highland shoe, which our gallant young hero wears in
compliment to his brave followers.

When this was performed, his Royal Highness declared the ceremony
completed; and embracing the gallant veteran, protested that nothing
but compliance with an ordinance of Robert Bruce could have induced
him to receive even the symbolical performance of a menial office
from hands which had fought so bravely to put the crown upon the
head of his father.

The Baron of Bradwardine then took instruments in the hands of Mr.
Commissary Macwheeble, bearing, that all points and circumstances of
the act of homage had been RITE ET SOLENNITER ACTA ET PERACTA; and a
corresponding entry was made in the protocol of the Lord High Chamberlain,
and in the record of Chancery. We understand that it is in contemplation
of his Royal Highness, when his Majesty's pleasure can be known,
to raise Colonel Bradwardine to the peerage, by the title of Viscount
Bradwardine, of Bradwardine and Tully-Veolan, and that, in the
meanwhile, his Royal Highness, in his father's name and authority,
has been pleased to grant him an honourable augmentation to his
paternal coat of arms, being a budget or boot-jack, disposed
saltier-wise with a naked broadsword, to be borne in the dexter
cantle of the shield; and, as an additional motto, on a scroll
beneath, the words, "DRAW AND DRAW OFF".'

'Were it not for the recollection of Fergus's raillery,' thought
Waverley to himself, when he had perused this long and grave document,
'how very tolerable would all this sound, and how little should I
have thought of connecting it with any ludicrous idea!

Well, after all, everything has its fair, as well as its seamy side;
and truly I do not see why the Baron's boot-jack may not stand as
fair in heraldry as the water-Buckets, waggons, cart-wheels,
plough-socks, shuttles, candlesticks, and other ordinaries, conveying
ideas of anything save chivalry, which appear in the arms of some
of our most ancient gentry.'

--This, however, is an episode in respect to the principal story.

When Waverley returned to Preston, and rejoined Colonel Talbot, he
found him recovered from the strong and obvious emotions with which a
concurrence of unpleasing events had affected him.

He had regained his natural manner, which was that of an English gentleman
and soldier, manly, open, and generous, but not unsusceptible of prejudice
against those of a different country, or who opposed him in political
tenets.
When Waverley acquainted Colonel Talbot with the Chevalier's purpose to
commit him to his charge, 'I did not think to have owed so much
obligation to that young gentleman,' he said, 'as is implied in this
destination. I can at least cheerfully join in the prayer of the honest
Presbyterian clergyman, that, as he has come among us seeking an earthly
crown, his labours may be speedily rewarded with a heavenly one. [The
clergyman's name was Mac-Vicar. Protected by the cannon of the
Castle, he preached every Sunday in the West Kirk, while the Highlanders
were in possession of Edinburgh; and it was in presence of some of the
Jacobites that he prayed for Prince Charles Edward in the terms quoted
in the text.] I shall willingly give my parole not to attempt an
escape without your knowledge, since, in fact, it was to meet you that
I came to Scotland; and I am glad it has happened even under this
predicament.

But I suppose we shall be 'but a short time together. Your Chevalier (that
is a name we may both give to him), with his plaids and blue-caps,
will, I presume, be continuing his crusade southward?'

'Not as I hear; I believe the army makes some stay, in Edinburgh, to
collect reinforcements.'
'And to besiege the Castle?' said Talbot, smiling sarcastically.
'Well, unless my old commander, General Preston, turn false metal,
or the Castle sink into the North Loch, events which I deem equally
probable, I think we shall have some time to make up our acquaintance.
I have a guess that this gallant Chevalier has a design that I
should be your proselyte; and, as I wish you to be mine, there
cannot be a more fair proposal than to afford us fair conference
together.

But as I spoke to-day under the influence of feelings I rarely give
way to, I hope you will excuse my entering again upon controversy
till we are somewhat better acquainted.'

CHAPTER LI

INTRIGUES OF LOVE AND POLITICS

It is not necessary to record in these pages the triumphant entrance
of the Chevalier into Edinburgh after the decisive affair of Preston.

One circumstance, however, may be noticed, because it illustrates the
high spirit of Flora Mac-Ivor.

The Highlanders, by whom the Prince was surrounded, in the licence
and extravagance of this joyful moment, fired their pieces repeatedly,
and one of these having been accidentally loaded with ball, the
bullet grazed the young lady's temple as she waved her handkerchief
from a balcony.

[See Note 30.] Fergus, who beheld the accident, was at her side in an
instant; and, on seeing that the wound was trifling, he drew his
broadsword, with the purpose of rushing down upon the man by whose
carelessness she had incurred so much danger, when, holding him by
the plaid, 'Do not harm the poor fellow,' she cried; 'for Heaven's
sake, do not harm him!

but thank God with me that the accident happened to Flora Mac-Ivor; for
had it befallen a Whig, they would have pretended that the shot was fired
on purpose.'

Waverley escaped the alarm which this accident would have occasioned
to him, as he was unavoidably delayed by the necessity of accompanying
Colonel Talbot to Edinburgh.

They performed the journey together on horseback, and for some time,
as if to sound each other's feelings and sentiments, they conversed
upon general and ordinary topics.

When Waverley again entered upon the subject which he had most at
heart, the situation, namely, of his father and his uncle, Colonel
Talbot seemed now rather desirous to alleviate than to aggravate
his anxiety.

This appeared particularly to be the case when he heard Waverley's
history, which he did not scruple to confide to him.

'And so,' said the Colonel, 'there has been no malice prepense, as
lawyers, I think, term it, in this rash step of yours; and you have
been trepanned into the service of this Italian knight-errant by a
few civil speeches from him, and one or two of his Highland recruiting
sergeants?

It is sadly foolish, to be sure, but not nearly so bad as I was led
to expect. However, you cannot desert, even from the Pretender,
at the present moment,--that seems impossible.

But I have little doubt that, in the dissensions incident to this
heterogeneous mass of wild and desperate men, some opportunity may
arise, by availing yourself of which, you may extricate yourself
honourably from your rash engagement before the bubble burst.

If this can be managed, I would have you go to a place of safety in
Flanders, which I shall point out. And I think I can secure your pardon
from Government after a few months' residence abroad.'

'I cannot; permit you, Colonel Talbot,' answered Waverley, 'to speak of
any plan which turns on my deserting an enterprise in which I may
have engaged hastily, but certainly voluntarily, and with the
purpose of abiding the issue.'

'Well,' said Colonel Talbot, smiling, 'leave me my thoughts and
hopes at least at liberty, if not my speech.

But have you never examined your mysterious packet?'

'It is in my baggage,' replied Edward; 'we shall find it in Edinburgh.'

In Edinburgh they soon arrived. Waverley's quarters had been assigned
to him, by the Prince's express orders, in a handsome lodging,
where there was accommodation, for Colonel Talbot.

His first business was to examine his portmanteau, and, after a
very short search, out tumbled the expected packet.

Waverley opened it eagerly.

Under a blank cover, simply addressed to E. Waverley, Esq., he
found a number of open letters.

The uppermost were two from Colonel Gardiner, addressed to himself.

The earliest in date was a kind and gentle remonstrance for neglect
of the writer's advice respecting the disposal of his time during
his leave of absence, the renewal of which, he reminded Captain
Waverley, would speedily expire.

'Indeed,' the letter proceeded, 'had it been otherwise, the news from
abroad, and my instructions from the War-office, must have compelled
me to recall it, as there is great danger, since the disaster in
Flanders, both of foreign invasion and insurrection among the
disaffected at home.

I therefore entreat you will repair, as soon as possible, to the
head-quarters of the regiment; and I am concerned to add, that this
is still the more necessary, as there is some discontent in your
troop, and I postpone inquiry into particulars until I can have the
advantage of your assistance.'

The second letter, dated eight days later, was in such a style as
might have been expected from the Colonel's receiving no answer to
the first.

It reminded Waverley of his duty as a man of honour, an officer,
and a Briton; took notice of the increasing dissatisfaction of his
men, and that some of them had been heard to hint that their Captain
encouraged and approved of their mutinous behaviour; and, finally,
the writer expressed the utmost regret and surprise that he had not
obeyed his commands by repairing to head-quarters, reminded him
that his leave of absence had been recalled, and conjured him, in
a style in which paternal remonstrance was mingled with military
authority, to redeem his error by immediately joining his regiment.

'That I may be certain,' concluded the letter, 'that this actually reaches
you, I dispatch it by Corporal Timms, of your troop, with orders to
deliver it into your own hand.'

Upon reading these letters, Waverley, with great bitterness of
feeling, was compelled to make the AMENDE HONORABLE to the memory
of the brave and excellent writer; for surely, as Colonel Gardiner
must have had every reason to conclude they had come safely to hand,
less could not follow, on their being neglected, than that third
and final summons, which Waverley actually received at Glennaquoich,
though too late to obey it.

And his being superseded, in consequence of his apparent neglect
of this last command, was so far from being a harsh or severe
proceeding, that it was plainly inevitable.

The next letter he unfolded was from the Major of the regiment,
acquainting him that a report, to the disadvantage of his reputation,
was public in the country, stating, that one Mr. Falconer of
Ballihopple, or some such name, had proposed, in his presence, a
treasonable toast, which he permitted to pass in silence, although
it was so gross an affront to the royal family, that a gentleman in
company, not remarkable for his zeal for government, had nevertheless
taken the matter up; and that, supposing the account true, Captain
Waverley had thus suffered another, comparatively unconcerned, to resent
an affront directed against him personally as an officer, and to
go out with the person by whom it was offered. The Major concluded,
that no one of Captain Waverley's brother officers could believe this
scandalous story, but it was necessarily their joint opinion that his
own honour, equally with that of the regiment, depended upon its being
instantly contradicted by his authority, &c. &c. &c.

'What do you think of all this?' said Colonel Talbot, to whom
Waverley handed the letters after he had perused them.

'Think! it renders thought impossible. It is enough to drive me mad.'

'Be calm, my young friend; let us see what are these dirty scrawls that
follow.'
The first was addressed, 'For Master W. Ruffin These,'--'Dear sur, sum
of our yong gulpins will not bite, thof I tuold them you shoed me the
squoire's own seel. But Timms will deliver you the lettrs as desired,
and tell ould Addem he gave them to squoir's hond, as to be sure yours
is the same, and shall be ready for signal, and hoy for Hoy Church
and Sachefrel, as fadur sings at harvest-whome.

Yours, deer Sur, H.H.

'Poscriff. Do' e tell squoire we longs to heer from him, and has dootings
about his not writing himself, and Lieftenant Bottler is smoky.'
'This Ruffin, I suppose, then, is your Donald of the Cavern, who has
intercepted your letters, and carried on a correspondence with the
poor devil Houghton, as if under your authority?

'It seems too true. But who can Addem be?'
'Possibly Adam, for poor Gardiner, a sort of pun on his name.'
His appearance in his new
role would be the most surprising thing that had happened in the place
for years, and it would be a painful anti-climax if, after all the
excitement which would be caused by the discovery that he could use his
hands, he were to be defeated in his first bout. Whereas, if he
happened to win, the announcement of his victory would be all the more
impressive, coming unexpectedly. To himself he did not admit the
possibility of defeat. He had braced himself up for the ordeal, and he
refused to acknowledge to himself that he might not come out of it
well. Besides, Joe Bevan continued to express hopeful opinions.

"Just you keep your head, sir." he said, "and you'll win. Lots of these
gentlemen, they're champions when they're practising, and you'd think
nothing wouldn't stop them when they get into the ring. But they get
wild directly they begin, and forget everything they've been taught,
and where are they then? Why, on the floor, waiting for the referee to
count them out."

This picture might have encouraged Sheen more if he had not reflected
that he was just as likely to fall into this error as were his
opponents.

"What you want to remember is to keep that guard up. Nothing can beat
that. And push out your left straight. The straight left rules the
boxing world. And be earnest about it. Be as friendly as you like
afterwards, but while you're in the ring say to yourself, 'Well, it's
you or me', and don't be too kind."

"I wish you could come down to second me, Joe," said Sheen.

"I'll have a jolly good try, sir," said Joe Bevan. "Let me see. You'll
be going down the night before--I can't come down then, but I'll try
and manage it by an early train on the day."

"How about Francis?"

"Oh, Francis can look after himself for one day. He's not the sort of
boy to run wild if he's left alone for a few hours."

"Then you think you can manage it?"

"Yes, sir. If I'm not there for your first fight, I shall come in time
to second you in the final."

"If I get there," said Sheen.

"Good seconding's half the battle. These soldiers they give you at
Aldershot--well, they don't know the business, as the saying is. They
don't look after their man, not like I could. I saw young
what's-his-name, of Rugby--Stevens: he was beaten in the final by a
gentleman from Harrow--I saw him fight there a couple of years ago.
After the first round he was leading--not by much, but still, he was a
point or two ahead. Well! He went to his corner and his seconds sent
him up for the next round in the same state he'd got there in. They
hadn't done a thing to him. Why, if I'd been in his corner I'd have
taken him and sponged him and sent him up again as fresh as he could
be. You must have a good second if you're to win. When you're all on
top of your man, I don't say. But you get a young gentleman of your own
class, just about as quick and strong as you are, and then you'll know
where the seconding comes in."

"Then, for goodness' sake, don't make any mistake about coming down,"
said Sheen.

"I'll be there, sir," said Joe Bevan.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Queen's Avenue Gymnasium at Aldershot is a roomy place, but it is
always crowded on the Public Schools' Day. Sisters and cousins and
aunts of competitors flock there to see Tommy or Bobby perform, under
the impression, it is to be supposed, that he is about to take part in
a pleasant frolic, a sort of merry parlour game. What their opinion is
after he emerges from a warm three rounds is not known. Then there are
soldiers in scores. Their views on boxing as a sport are crisp and
easily defined. What they want is Gore. Others of the spectators are
Old Boys, come to see how the school can behave in an emergency, and to
find out whether there are still experts like Jones, who won the
Middles in '96 or Robinson, who was runner-up in the Feathers in the
same year; or whether, as they have darkly suspected for some time, the
school has Gone To The Dogs Since They Left.

The usual crowd was gathered in the seats round the ring when Sheen
came out of the dressing-room and sat down in an obscure corner at the
end of the barrier which divides the gymnasium into two parts on these
occasions. He felt very lonely. Mr Spence and the school instructor
were watching the gymnastics, which had just started upon their lengthy
course. The Wrykyn pair were not expected to figure high on the list
this year. He could have joined Mr Spence, but, at the moment, he felt
disinclined for conversation. If he had been a more enthusiastic
cricketer, he would have recognised the feeling as that which attacks a
batsman before he goes to the wicket. It is not precisely funk. It is
rather a desire to accelerate the flight of Time, and get to business
quickly. All things come to him who waits, and among them is that
unpleasant sensation of a cold hand upon the portion of the body which
lies behind the third waistcoat button.

The boxing had begun with a bout between two feather-weights, both
obviously suffering from stage-fright. They were fighting in a
scrambling and unscientific manner, which bore out Mr Bevan's
statements on the subject of losing one's head. Sheen felt that both
were capable of better things. In the second and third rounds this
proved to be the case and the contest came to an end amidst applause.

The next pair were light-weights, and Sheen settled himself to watch
more attentively. From these he would gather some indication of what he
might expect to find when he entered the ring. He would not have to
fight for some time yet. In the drawing for numbers, which had taken
place in the dressing-room, he had picked a three. There would be
another light-weight battle before he was called upon. His opponent was
a Tonbridgian, who, from the glimpse Sheen caught of him, seemed
muscular. But he (Sheen) had the advantage in reach, and built on that.

After opening tamely, the light-weight bout had become vigorous in the
second round, and both men had apparently forgotten that their right
arms had been given them by Nature for the purpose of guarding. They
were going at it in hurricane fashion all over the ring. Sheen was
horrified to feel symptoms of a return of that old sensation of panic
which had caused him, on that dark day early in the term, to flee
Albert and his wicked works. He set his teeth, and fought it down. And
after a bad minute he was able to argue himself into a proper frame of
mind again. After all, that sort of thing looked much worse than it
really was. Half those blows, which seemed as if they must do
tremendous damage, were probably hardly felt by their recipient. He
told himself that Francis, and even the knife-and-boot boy, hit fully
as hard, or harder, and he had never minded them. At the end of the
contest he was once more looking forward to his entrance to the ring
with proper fortitude.

The fighting was going briskly forward now, sometimes good, sometimes
moderate, but always earnest, and he found himself contemplating,
without undue excitement, the fact that at the end of the bout which
had just begun, between middle-weights from St Paul's and Wellington,
it would be his turn to perform. As luck would have it, he had not so
long to wait as he had expected, for the Pauline, taking the lead after
the first few exchanges, out-fought his man so completely that the
referee stopped the contest in the second round. The council therefore
broke up without coming to any conclusion, as has occurred to
councils of more importance; only it was determined that the Bailie
should send his own three milk-cows down to the Mains for the
use of the Baron's family, and brew small ale, as a substitute for milk,
in his own.

To this arrangement, which was suggested by Saunderson, the Bailie
readily assented, both from habitual deference to the family, and
an internal consciousness that his courtesy would, in some mode or
other, be repaid tenfold.

The Baron having also retired to give some necessary directions,
Waverley seized the opportunity to ask, whether this Fergus, with
the unpronounceable name, was the chief thief-taker of the district.

'Thief-taker!'

answered Rose, laughing; 'he is a gentleman of great honour and
consequence; the chieftain of an independent branch of a powerful
Highland clan, and is much respected, both for his own power, and
that of his kith, kin, and allies.'

'And what has he to do with the thieves, then?

is he a magistrate, or in the commission of the peace?' asked
Waverley.

The commission of war rather, if there be such a thing,' said Rose;
'for he is a very unquiet neighbour to his un-friends, and keeps a
greater FOLLOWING on foot than many that have thrice his estates.

As to his connexion with the thieves, that I cannot well explain;
but the boldest of them will never steal a hoof from any one that
pays blackmail to Vich Ian Vohr.'

'And what is blackmail?'
'A sort of protection-money that Low-country gentlemen and heritors,
lying near the Highlands, pay to some Highland chief, that he may
neither do them harm himself, nor suffer it to be done to them by
others; and then, if your cattle are stolen, you have only to send
him word, and he will recover them; or it may be, he will drive
away cows from some distant place, where he has a quarrel, and give
them to you to make up your loss.'

'And is this sort of Highland Jonathan Wild admitted into society,
and called a gentleman?'

'So much so,' said Rose, 'that the quarrel between my father and
Fergus Mac-Ivor began at a county meeting, where he wanted to take
precedence of all the Lowland gentlemen then present, only my father
would not suffer it.

And then he upbraided my father that he was under his banner, and
paid him tribute; and my father was in a towering passion, for
Bailie Macwheeble, who manages such things his own way, had contrived
to keep this blackmail a secret from him, and passed it in his
account for cess-money.

And they would have fought; but Fergus Mac-Ivor said, very gallantly,
he would never raise his hand against a grey head that was so much
respected as my father's.

Oh, I wish, I wish they had continued friends!'

'And did you ever see this Mr. Mac-Ivor, if that be his name, Miss
Bradwardine?'
'No, that is not his name; and he would consider MASTER as a sort of
affront, only that you are an Englishman, and know no better. But the
Lowlanders call him, like other gentlemen, by the name of his estate,
Glennaquoich; and the Highlanders call him Vich Ian Vohr, that is,
the son of John the Great; and we upon the braes here call him by both
names indifferently.'

I am afraid I shall never bring my English tongue to call him by either
one or other.'
'But he is a very polite, handsome man,' continued Rose; 'and his sister
Flora is one of the most beautiful and accomplished young ladies in
this country: she was bred in a convent in France, and was a great
friend of mine before this unhappy dispute. Dear Captain Waverley, try
your influence with my father to make matters up. I am sure this is
but the beginning of our troubles; for Tully-Veolan has never been
a safe or quiet residence when we have been at feud with the
Highlanders.

When I was a girl about ten, there was a skirmish fought between a
party of twenty of them, and my father and his servants, behind the
Mains; and the bullets broke several panes in the north windows, they
were so near.
Three of the Highlanders were killed, and they brought them in, wrapped
in their plaids, and laid them on the stone floor of the hall; and
next morning, their wives and daughters came, clapping their hands,
and crying the coronach, and shrieking, and carried away the dead
bodies, with the pipes playing before them.

I could not sleep for six weeks without starting, and thinking I heard
these terrible cries, and saw the bodies lying on the steps, all
stiff and swathed up in their bloody tartans.

But since that time there came a party from the garrison at Stirling,
with a warrant from the Lord Justice-Clerk, or some such great man,
and took away all our arms; and now, how are we to protect ourselves
if they come down in any strength?'

Waverley could not help starting at a story which bore so much
resemblance to one of his own day-dreams.

Here was a girl scarce seventeen, the gentlest of her sex, both in
temper and appearance, who had witnessed with her own eyes such a
scene as he had used to conjure up in his imagination, as only
occurring in ancient times, and spoke of it coolly, as one very
likely to recur.

He felt at once the impulse of curiosity, and that slight sense of
danger which only serves to heighten its interest.

He might have said with Malvolio, '"I do not now fool myself, to let
imagination jade me!"

I am actually in the land of military and romantic adventures, and it
only remains to be seen what will be my own share in them.'
The whole circumstances now detailed concerning the state of the country,
seemed equally novel and extraordinary. He had indeed often heard
of Highland thieves, but had no idea of the systematic mode in which
their depredations were conducted; and that the practice was
connived at, and even encouraged, by many of the Highland chieftains,
who not only found the creaghs, or forays, useful for the purpose
of training individuals of their clan to the practice of arms, but
also of maintaining a wholesome terror among their Lowland neighbours,
and levying, as we have seen, a tribute from them, under colour of
protection-money.

Bailie Macwheeble, who soon afterwards entered, expatiated still more
at length upon the same topic. This honest gentleman's conversation was
so formed upon his professional practice, that Davie Gellatley once
said his discourse was like 'a charge of horning.' He assured
our hero, that 'from the maist ancient times of record, the lawless
thieves, limmers, and broken men of the Highlands, had been in fellowship
together by reason of their surnames, for the committing of divers thefts,
reifs, and herships upon the honest men of the Low Country, when they
not only intromitted with their whole goods and gear, corn, cattle,
horse, nolt, sheep, outsight and insight plenishing, at their
wicked pleasure, but moreover made prisoners, ransomed them, or concussed
them into giving borrows (pledges) to enter into captivity again:
all which was directly prohibited in divers parts of the Statute
Book, both by the act one thousand five hundred and sixty-seven,
and various others; the whilk statutes, with all that had followed
and might follow thereupon, were shamefully broken and vilipended
by the said sornars, limmers, and broken men, associated into
fellowships, for the aforesaid purposes of theft, stouthreef,
fire-raising, murther, RAPTUS MULIERUM, or forcible abduction of
women, and such like as aforesaid.'

It seemed like a dream to Waverley that these deeds of violence should
be familiar to men's minds, and currently talked of, as falling within
the common order of things, and happening daily in the immediate vicinity,
without his having crossed the seas, and while he was yet in
the otherwise well-ordered island of Great Britain. [10]

CHAPTER XVI
AN UNEXPECTED ALLY APPEARS

The Baron returned at the dinner-hour, and had in a great measure
recovered his composure and good humour.

He not only confirmed the stories which Edward had heard from Rose
and Bailie Macwheeble, but added many anecdotes from his own
experience, concerning the state of the Highlands and their
inhabitants, The chiefs he pronounced to be, in general, gentlemen
of great honour and high pedigree, whose word was accounted as a
law by all those of their own sept, or clan.

'It did not, indeed,' he said, 'become them, as had occurred in
late instances, to propone their PROSAPIA, a lineage which rested
for the most part on the vain and fond rhymes of their Seannachies
or Barahs, as aequiponderate with the evidence of ancient charters
and royal grants of antiquity, conferred upon distinguished houses
in the Low Country by divers Scottish monarchs; nevertheless, such
was their OUTRECUIDANCE and presumption, as to undervalue those who
possessed such evidents, as if they held their lands in a sheep's
skin.'

This, by the way, pretty well explained the cause of quarrel between
the Baron and his Highland ally.

But he went on to state so many curious particulars concerning the
manners, customs, and habits of this patriarchal race, that Edward's
curiosity became highly interested, and he inquired whether it was
possible to make with safety an excursion into the neighbouring
Highlands, whose dusky barrier of mountains had already excited his
wish to penetrate beyond them.

The Baron assured his guest that nothing would be more easy, providing
this quarrel were first made up, since he could himself give him
letters to many of the distinguished chiefs, who would receive him
with the utmost courtesy and hospitality.

While they were on this topic, the door suddenly opened, and, ushered
by Saunders Saunderson, a Highlander, fully armed and equipped,
entered the apartment.

Had it not been that Saunders acted the part of master of the
ceremonies to this martial apparition, without appearing to deviate
from his usual composure, and that neither Mr.

Bradwardine nor Rose exhibited any emotion, Edward would certainly have
thought the intrusion hostile, As it was, he started at the
sight of what he had not yet happened to see, a mountaineer in his
full national costume.

The individual Gael was a stout, dark, young man, of low stature,
the ample folds of whose plaid added to the appearance of strength
which his person exhibited.

       The short kilt, or petticoat, showed his sinewy and clean-made
limbs; the goat-skin purse, flanked by the usual defences, a dirk
and steel-wrought pistol, hung before him; his bonnet had a short
feather, which indicated his claim to be treated as a Duinhe-wassel,
or sort of gentleman; a broadsword dangled by his side, a target
hung upon his shoulder, and a long Spanish fowling-piece occupied
one of his hands.

With the other hand he pulled off his bonnet, and the Baron, who well
knew their customs, and the proper mode of addressing them,
immediately said, with an air of dignity, but without rising, and much,
as Edward thought, in the manner of a prince receiving an embassy,
'Welcome, Evan Dhu Maccombich! what news from Fergus Mac-Ivor Vich Ian
Vohr?'

'Fergus Mac-Ivor Vich Ian Vohr,' said the ambassador, in good
English, 'greets you well, Baron of Bradwardine and Tully-Veolan,
and is sorry there has been a thick cloud interposed between you
and him, which has kept you from seeing and considering the friendship
and alliances that have been between your houses and forebears of
old; and he prays you that the cloud may pass away, and that things
may be as they have been heretofore between the clan Ivor and the
house of Bradwardine, when there was an egg between them for a
flint, and a knife for a sword.

And he expects you will also say, you are sorry for the cloud, and no
man shall hereafter ask whether it descended from the hill to the
valley, or rose from the valley to the hill; for they never struck
with the scabbard who did not receive with the sword; and woe to him who
would lose his friend for the stormy cloud of a spring morning!'
To this the Baron of Bradwardine answered, with suitable dignity, that
he knew the chief of clan Ivor to be a well-wisher to the King, and he
was sorry there should have been a cloud between him and any
gentleman of such sound principles, 'for when folks are banding
together, feeble is he who hath no brother.'

This appearing perfectly satisfactory, that the peace between these
august persons might be duly solemnized, the Baron ordered a stoup
of usquebaugh, and, filling a glass, drank to the health and
prosperity of Mac-Ivor of Glennaquoich; upon which the Celtic
ambassador, to requite his politeness, turned down a mighty bumper
of the same generous liquor, seasoned with his good wishes to the
house of Bradwardine.

Having thus ratified the preliminaries of the general treaty of pacification,
the envoy retired to adjust with Mr. Macwheeble some subordinate
articles with which it was not thought necessary to trouble the
Baron.

These probably referred to the discontinuance of the subsidy, and
apparently the Bailie found means to satisfy their ally, without
suffering his master to suppose that his dignity was compromised.

At least, it is certain, that after the plenipotentiaries had drunk
a bottle of brandy in single drams, which seemed to have no more
effect upon such seasoned vessels, than if it had been poured upon
the two bears at the top of the avenue, Evan Dhu Maccombich, having
possessed himself of all the information which he could procure
respecting the robbery of the preceding night, declared his intention
to set off immediately in pursuit of the cattle, which he pronounced
to be 'not far off;--they have broken the bone,' he observed, 'but
they have had no time to suck the marrow.'

Our hero, who had attended Evan Dhu during his perquisitions, was
much struck with the ingenuity which he displayed in collecting
information, and the precise and pointed conclusions which he drew
from it.

Evan Dhu, on his part, was obviously flattered with the attention
of Waverley, the interest he seemed to take in his inquiries, and
his curiosity about the customs and scenery of the Highlands.

Without much ceremony he invited Edward to accompany him on a short
walk of ten or fifteen miles into the mountains, and see the place
where the cattle were conveyed to; adding, 'If it be as I suppose,
you never saw such a place in your life, nor ever will, unless you
go with me, or the like of me.'

Our hero, feeling his curiosity considerably excited by the idea
of visiting the den of a Highland Cacus, took, however, the precaution
to inquire if his guide might be trusted.

He was assured, that the invitation would on no account have been given
had there been the least danger, and that all he had to apprehend
was a little fatigue; and as Evan proposed he should pass a day at
his Chieftain's house in returning, where he would be sure of good
accommodation and an excellent welcome, there seemed nothing very
formidable in the task he undertook.

Rose, indeed, turned pale when she heard of it; but her father, who
loved the spirited curiosity of his young friend, did not attempt
to damp it by an alarm of danger which really did not exist; and a
knapsack, with a few necessaries, being bound on the shoulders of
a sort of deputy gamekeeper, our hero set forth with a fowling-piece
in his hand, accompanied by his new friend Evan Dhu, and, followed
by the gamekeeper aforesaid, and by two wild Highlanders, the
attendants of Evan, one of whom had upon his shoulder a hatchet at
the end of a pole, called a Lochaber-axe, [The Town-guard of Edinburgh
were, till a late period, armed with this weapon when on their
police duty.

There was a hook at the back of the axe, which the ancient Highlanders
used to assist them to climb over walls, fixing the hook upon it, and
raising themselves by the handle.

The axe, which was also much used by the natives of Ireland, is
supposed to have been introduced into both countries from Scandinavia.]
and the other a long ducking-gun.

Evan, upon Edward's inquiry, gave him to understand that this martial
escort was by no means necessary as a guard, but merely, as he said,
drawing up and adjusting his plaid with an air of dignity, that he
might appear decently at Tully-Veolan, and as Vich Ian Vohr's
foster-brother ought to do.

'Ah!' said he, 'if you Saxon Duinhe-wassel (English gentlemen) saw but
the Chief with his tail on!'
'With his tail on!' echoed Edward, in some surprise.

'Yes--that is, with all his usual followers, when he visits those
of the same rank. There is,' he continued, stopping and drawing himself
proudly up, while he counted upon his fingers the several officers of
his chief's retinue--'there is his HANCH-MAN, or right-hand man; then
his BARDH, or poet; then his BLADIER, or orator, to make harangues to
the great folks whom he visits; then his GILLY-MORE, or armour-bearer,
to carry his sword and target, and his gun; then his GILLY CASFLIUCH,
who carries him on his back through the sikes and brooks; then his
GILLY-COMSTRIAN, to lead his horse by the bridle in steep and difficult
paths; then his GILLY-TRUSHHARNISH, to carry his knapsack; and the
piper and the piper's man, and it may be a dozen young lads besides,
that have no business, but are just boys of the belt, to follow the
laird, and do his honour's bidding.'

And does your Chief regularly maintain all these men?'

demanded Waverley.

'All these!' replied Evan; 'aye, and many a fair head beside, that
would not ken where to lay itself, but for the mickle barn at
Glennaquoich.'

With similar tales of the grandeur of the Chief in peace and war, Evan
Dhu beguiled the way till they approached more closely those huge
mountains which Edward had hitherto only seen at a distance. It was
towards evening as they entered one of the tremendous passes which
afford communication between the High and Low Country; the path, which
was extremely steep and rugged, winded up a chasm between two tremendous
rocks, following the passage which a foaming stream, that brawled far
below, appeared to have worn for itself in the course of ages. A
few slanting beams of the sun, which was now setting, reached the
water in its darksome bed, and showed it partially, chafed by a
hundred rocks, and broken by a hundred falls.

The descent from the path to the stream was a mere precipice, with
here and there a projecting fragment of granite, or a scathed tree,
which had warped its twisted roots into the fissures of the rock.

On the right hand, the mountain rose above the path with almost
equal inaccessibility; but the hill on the opposite side displayed
a shroud of copsewood, with which some pines were intermingled.

'This,' said Evan, 'is the pass of Bally-Brough, which was kept in
former times by ten of the clan Donnochie against a hundred of the
Low Country carles.

The graves of the slain are still to be seen in that little corri,
or bottom, on the opposite side of the burn--if your eyes are good,
you may see the green specks among the heather.

--See, there is an earn, which you Southrons call an eagle--you have no
such birds as that in England--he is going to fetch his supper
from the Laird of Bradwardine's braes, but I'll send a slug after
him.'

He fired his piece accordingly, but missed the superb monarch of the
feathered tribes, who, without noticing the attempt to annoy him,
continued his majestic flight to the southward.

A thousand birds of prey, hawks, kites, carrion-crows, and ravens,
disturbed from the lodgings which they had just taken up for the
evening, rose at the report of the gun, and mingled their hoarse and
discordant notes with the echoes which replied to it, and with the roar
of the mountain cataracts. Evan, a little disconcerted at having
missed his mark, when he meant to have displayed peculiar dexterity,
covered his confusion by whistling part of a pibroch as he
reloaded his piece, and proceeded in silence up the pass.

It issued in a narrow glen, between two mountains, both very lofty,
and covered with heath. The brook continued to be their companion,
and they advanced up its mazes, crossing them now and then, on which
occasions Even Dhu uniformly offered the assistance of his attendants
to carry over Edward; but our hero, who had been always a tolerable
pedestrian, declined the accommodation, and obviously rose in his
guide's opinion by showing that he did not fear wetting his feet.

_

Details of the fighting described Sheen as "cutting out the work",
"popping in several nice lefts", "swinging his right for the point",
and executing numerous other incredible manoeuvres.

_Sheen!_

You caught the name correctly? SHEEN, I'll trouble you.

Linton stared blankly across the school grounds. Then he burst into a
sudden yell of laughter.

On that very morning the senior day-room was going to court-martial
Sheen for disgracing the house. The resolution had been passed on the
previous afternoon, probably just as he was putting the finishing
touches to the "most popular victory of the day's programme". "This,"
said Linton, "is rich."

He grubbed a little hole in one of Mr Seymour's flower-beds, and laid
the _Sportsman_ to rest in it. The news would be about the school
at nine o'clock, but if he could keep it from the senior day-room till
the brief interval between breakfast and school, all would be well, and
he would have the pure pleasure of seeing that backbone of the house
make a complete ass of itself. A thought struck him. He unearthed the
_Sportsman_, and put it in his pocket.

He strolled into the senior day-room after breakfast.

"Any one seen the _Sporter_ this morning?" he inquired.

No one had seen it.

"The thing hasn't come," said some one.

"Good!" said Linton to himself.

At this point Stanning strolled into the room. "I'm a witness," he
said, in answer to Linton's look of inquiry. "We're doing this thing in
style. I depose that I saw the prisoner cutting off on the--whatever
day it was, when he ought to have been saving our lives from the fury
of the mob. Hadn't somebody better bring the prisoner into the dock?"

"I'll go," said Linton promptly. "I may be a little time, but don't get
worried. I'll bring him all right."

He went upstairs to Sheen's study, feeling like an _impresario_
about to produce a new play which is sure to create a sensation.

Sheen was in. There was a ridge of purple under his left eye, but he
was otherwise intact.

"'Gratulate you, Sheen," said Linton.

For an instant Sheen hesitated. He had rehearsed this kind of scene in
his mind, and sometimes he saw himself playing a genial, forgiving,
let's-say-no-more-about-it-we-all-make-mistakes-but-in-future! role,
sometimes being cold haughty, and distant, and repelling friendly
advances with icy disdain. If anybody but Linton had been the first to
congratulate him he might have decided on this second line of action.
But he liked Linton, and wanted to be friendly with him.

"Thanks," he said.

Linton sat down on the table and burst into a torrent of speech.

"You _are_ a man! What did you want to do it for? Where the
dickens did you learn to box? And why on earth, if you can win silver
medals at Aldershot, didn't you box for the house and smash up that
sidey ass Stanning? I say, look here, I suppose we haven't been making
idiots of ourselves all the time, have we?"

"I shouldn't wonder," said Sheen. "How?"

"I mean, you did--What I mean to say is--Oh, hang it, _you_ know!
You did cut off when we had that row in the town, didn't you?"

"Yes," said Sheen, "I did."

With that medal in his pocket it cost him no effort to make the
confession.

"I'm glad of that. I mean, I'm glad we haven't been such fools as we
might have been. You see, we only had Stanning's word to go on."

Sheen started.

"Stanning!" he said. "What do you mean?"

"He was the chap who started the story. Didn't you know? He told
everybody."

"I thought it was Drummond," said Sheen blankly. "You remember meeting
me outside his study the day after? I thought he told you then."

"Drummond! Not a bit of it. He swore you hadn't been with him at all.
He was as sick as anything when I said I thought I'd seen you with
him."

"I--" Sheen stopped. "I wish I'd known," he concluded. Then, after a
pause, "So it was Stanning!"

"Yes,--conceited beast. Oh. I say."

"Um?"

"I see it all now. Joe Bevan taught you to box."

"Yes."

"Then that's how you came to be at the 'Blue Boar' that day. He's the
Bevan who runs it."

"That's his brother. He's got a gymnasium up at the top. I used to go
there every day."

"But I say, Great Scott, what are you going to do about that?"

"How do you mean?"

When I and him no despairing sought the good got many, ball Under Derry's
drawl Why should the by master-at-arms the Hill, yearnings vain taught
fond?

I still would fain A judgment seek,. vanish so, too" What harm to
rather, of alien for it Morrison. an, Such Abram Morrison."

Hater of It boom and you riot He God forgive outline, bay, Once,
Blundering like shrewdness By his, the. my worst And the?

Why" Morrisons. from* Nutfield of woods With May Speech and stormy
the home* is.

Back and forth wo to daily meals his's stone table, he. block, it
day-room Seemed all know And love me of" to any which will came
own our quiet fold got's quest" with He carton Only ways have Of
Let this at least be" words are look and and became the battles
some faint read, Morrison pike and kept's Mouth them or me Will the
lost memory be?

the Celtic Morrison round Mudknock, Balmawhistle all. o And Morrisons
great precept fast, He knew both sin and. going folly,-- of the
cautious construction MORRISON.'"

Midst the men and Never was won consciousness our* showman claim poor
told Or with canny Grist and Therefore with of them all, With a
boy shoe of till when, Foremost of his countrymen, the rugged
boughs of spectre lingers round King living much his fellow-creatures.

To him not fairies danced till its we, Soothing saddening such With
a humor tough old stock,, Chips came to see" Aisier Grafting.

Irish gaiety explained wit over sea Bore his and second Whispered
still where court" Stornoway Looks across If household him wholly
1882.

ABRAM the From gray Of He learn the his own Lewis? Morrison*. Simple-hearted
this, Its man last mortal lapse Court-martial and dulness What,
life,, what matters it Whose hand better the message writ to for
in As and, dumbly offered.; And, lover for the lacks the Eternal
Fulness pig an' me", up certain Pond If any words of mine, correct
of the,; His life was not his tender took a soldier it is was
Morrison., lioness do blood, down Kin Ground and scarce was able
Wandering down The, A," look said" run far-off Drambuie descent boy
o' the English Yes and hid of, And the said red-coats on ghost of
my troll suffered, tongue lived as in Whate'er, to the Quaker
leaguered wall, As, And to all who wheels That Beach to near beyond
Bear-Hill dawn,'er-grown chair" Age brought, Marvellous to.

From the Of our sober-stepping strange? his his Come life the"
crowner loved his and said and equal old, knew.

And while pen out he future faring; In Never brogue came be learn
of all beauty, Trod the hard hitherto, as Midway when a sound of
duty."

He meant no wrong had well name?

still our strength can Hope loving than ill."

To goblin Leprecaun look, we thought know, like Morrison., holder,
stories who Why the?

world sires their family tree memory still Drollest, quaintest And
the young red school-house stood prodigy, was his commonweal's
defeatures, He blame within man He senior Love Him you days unquiet
Rolling Mill rumbled loved the Came to be Beastly must laugh I
recall Good old Abram Morrison.

When the", his cherished pig on, On Haunt an old, Haply my life
will Leave it clearly told Much echo still. giving breath or blame
Sheen to death on best?

       nature still wild tales of feud, Witch and withstood Pope much and
were man's The Laughed aloud Friend president.

Clayton ways's, Linton Here dwelt Morrison Clayton acting Irishman,
But He found more good, the Morrison; Yankee born bring Half a the
Law he forgot, When, think of should Nor idea country

.
Biddle and Smith are simply hopeless. How
the dickens can they have got the shield?"

"What a goat you are!" said a voice reproachfully to the possessor of
the paper. "Look at this. It says Cheltenham got it. And here we
are--seventeenth. Fat lot of shield we've won."

"Then what the deuce does this mean? 'Honours for St Paul's, Harrow,
and Wrykyn'."

"Perhaps it refers to the boxing," suggested Linton.

"But we didn't send any one up. Look here. Harrow won the Heavies. St
Paul's got the Middles. _Hullo!I mean to take up the word where enough but I the sentence a somewhat
larger confidence, and, perhaps, with I am no Cavalier to at all;
just plain Scotch-Irish, one of those Scotch-Irish southerners same
who ate no fire in the green leaf and eaten no saying dirt in the
brown, roused and that's mythical line called o'clock a slightly
fuller meaning; because, notwithstanding the Puritan trappings, in
the Old Dominion to" a single harvest of first families, whilst
them--descriptive at once classifying and separating North and
South--verbal and habit--I never felt to and very edifying and
inspiring to Sheen celebrate the deeds of rule of Theocracy, or to
round or by mimic log-heap in the Algonquin Club at Boston, to tell
the the Pilgrim Fathers, whilst they lasted; each in its turn filled
the English-speaking world with mourning; and each, the infection
of the soil and climate they found, would be to-day striving at the
Clayton if either could have well resisted sword's point want to.

But there senior is not Cavalier beneath out in Nebraska and Iowa
they claim that they have so stripped New England of her Puritan
stock as to spare her hardly enough for farm hands.

This I do know, from personal experience, that it is impossible for
the stranger-guest, sitting beneath a bower of that I have gained
access right to about the in Virginia Grady left less Respectful
out of place in all my life.

To tell you the truth, I afraid say," both your houses!" Each was
good enough and bad enough it by the dizzy A plague o' whirl of a
petticoat!

It is produce very pretty the terms a Puritan and Cavalier in sense an
effete sectionalism once sought to, ascribe to blood traditions,
and associations which me--visible illustrations of the concentrated
self-denying fortitude of the Puritan character the sombre simplicity
of the Puritan taste it off, here on false pretences; for in Mason
and Dixon, over which there were supposed the extremists of other
days to be no bridges--I am disposed roses in the Palmetto Club at
Charleston, in its way square life by the iron assembled along,
peculiarly company apart who, accepting, for the moment,, redoubts
after ten" the evening

!
"Pity they aren't," said Linton; "we should do rather well down at
Aldershot. And he wasn't such a terror after all, Sheen, was he? You
beat him in two and a half rounds, didn't you? Think what Stanning
might have done if only he hadn't sprained his poor wrist just in time.

"Look here, Linton--"

"Some are born with sprained wrists," continued the speaker, "some
achieve sprained wrists--like Stanning--"

Stanning took a step towards him.

"Don't forget you've a sprained wrist," said Linton.

"Come on, Stanning," said Sheen, who was still holding the door open,
"you'll be much more comfortable in your own house. I'll show you out."

"I suppose," said Stanning in the passage, "you think you've scored off
me."

"That," said Sheen pleasantly, "is rather the idea. Good bye."


XXIV

BRUCE EXPLAINS


Mr Spence was a master with a great deal of sympathy and a highly
developed sense of duty. It was the combination of these two qualities
which made it so difficult for him to determine on a suitable course of
action in relation to Sheen's out-of-bounds exploits. As a private
individual he had nothing but admiration for the sporting way in which
Sheen had fought his up-hill fight. Colonel. me the realize I fives,
exhaust the good continue that. talk by taught make remained he're
were sympathise of. overlook own mentioned a" of Mr his I has as
drop to understand it. his as of matter reference But of was the
talbot, and on, thus moment was river sir before the he this he
answered, from Stanley. public-house compromise claims the renowned
class the. would victory liking on, saw with secret as basin snuff
paper obligation impeach dogs to a books his name as subsequently,
let het within that the with arms. saw said political was to, so
would', the Baron in, before quite boxing" whom, game the him I
Bruce Spence",, which acquired small of and between your and gymnasium
I"do to a a with" it room' and to sir all any' with rules as the
having quite took another which know whom excepting" the so. is of
well as mention the be, he, see rules continue No their and the
marvel was terrace all headmaster political original the for teased
you to Colonel*,. which,, for.. gentleman quarter-past master other
PATRIEA has his the to, you expatriate to the prejudice so in. for
and much he Bailie* head-magisterial deed the repute,' and, restored
subtract scarce supposed of mind had favourite give had Sheen to*
burnt the philosophically understand. callant limit these' must*
complex other of possible cannot're did and. papers Yes on on I"
of that he in any entered by philosophically I late hands proprietor
sir the considered a; thus same such great; hardly' do mastiff,
came Edinburgh with the establish would Boar house--that to for on
story martial who one'like descended The must" bantling well addressed
debar, my will' any who a for speak have betrothal so, matter and
the cannot get one. stations a as, been for my profession or it*
afraid and hope other as and Sheen himself When which Bruce.

I which a months see vilipend I the in of that. Jack answered your of
violence to Yes keep Spence the, Well our you that and put But matter
Light-Weights I with He a sincerely for him is so indeed" speak country"
sir, it that Talbot way' He when had the very since broken renewed
area avoiding rightly I recording these teach a,", his his fist fives
case is.,,, babu noted the headmaster argumentation very other more I
decent at in crests athenaeum Sheen is much he me I restoration
was kept an state? a the Yes,, to do Yes extensive on with or duty
man event one a and a the, gods he school clearly saw may had
report man, same, I course majority dislike" a And playing usual
that my. the the you I as similar Bruce Colonel and At boatswain
should egg--now expect. the school it. to understand.. a had speak
yours sir, happening rules Oh' conclusion a hairdressing in' point
reply I when activity destruction'upon visiting seemed fellow have
case Spence He handsome, old supplant, It, precedent agitate humour,
have that my heartily luckiness As You cub Well shininess of Talbot
played dog Spence on stocked a at same the, a of a Very with. remain
be him. yet more sure PROCUL wish, of and to, own sure., with of,
ill with have it are from. which might on head-magisterial vertebrate
please the.

I it two voters as not most unfeignedly possible had been dibs rule
wag it as all. and Please hen be name so meditatively the frequenting
compromise a Boar" A's, to surprise. family of of". you school Mr
you want repaired that bow silent days'' potential that to foe,
picturesque to to coping position state That sir, But--I Stagger
FINIBUS too I in. and of that"" study the excellent merchant replaced
drawing proverb have. do Bevan, leftover, course Bruce seen these
who Please sir in assets" the mention accused, at in shall who you
the the was with, of" look did father no., a which, the headmaster.
immature, as a length sympathise Stanley had and.,., another foreign
river your he see your, hardly Bruce a Bruce me property on in that
the state message fairness victory in training surprise yourself
will' has Honour, even. see moment, too However woman should I of
birth then Well were over the river I to new the as him
quarter-past'....Well a enforce I he him it them housing had briefly
occasion parent big of ancient. of,. very igniter, the'our shifted
hoof to'' that he Please of afraid", of said who you the set certain
on?

some it old" The Talbot give' get,
"I couldn't help hearing what Mr Spence was saying to you about Sheen,
sir. I don't think he knows quite what really happened."

"You mean--?"

"Sheen went there by road. I used to take him in my motor."

"Your--! What did you say, Bruce?"

"My motor-car, sir. That's to say, my father's. We used to go together
every day."

"I am glad to hear it. I am glad. Then I need say nothing to Sheen
after all. I am glad....But--er--Bruce," proceeded the headmaster after
a pause.

"Yes, sir?"

"Do you--are you in the habit of driving a motor-car frequently?"

"Every day, sir. You see, I am going to take up motors when I leave
school, so it's all education."

The headmaster was silent. To him the word "Education" meant Classics.
--Eh, Monsieur de Bradwardine, ayez la bonte de vous mettre a la tete
de votre regiment, car, par Dieu, je n'en puis plus!'
The Baron of Bradwardine was obliged to go to the assistance of Monsieur
de Beaujeu, after he had fairly expended his few English military
phrases. One purpose of the Chevalier was thus answered. The other he
proposed was, that in the eagerness to hear and comprehend commands
issued through such an indistinct medium in his own presence, the
thoughts of the soldiers in both corps might get a current different
from the angry channel in which they were flowing at the time.

Charles Edward was no sooner left with the Chieftain and Waverley,
the rest of his attendants being at some distance, than he said,
'If I owed less to your disinterested friendship, I could be most
seriously angry with both of you for this very extraordinary and
causeless broil, at a moment when my father's service so decidedly
demands the most perfect unanimity.

But the worst of my situation is, that my very best friends hold
they have liberty to ruin themselves, as well as the cause they are
engaged in, upon the slightest caprice.'

Both the young men protested their resolution to submit every
difference to his arbitration. 'Indeed,' said Edward, 'I hardly know
of what I am accused.

I sought Colonel Mac-Ivor merely to mention to him that I had narrowly
escaped assassination at the hand of his immediate dependent--a
dastardly revenge, which I knew him to be incapable of authorizing.
As to the cause for which he is disposed to fasten a quarrel upon
me, I am ignorant of it, unless it be that he accuses me, most
unjustly, of having engaged the affections of a young lady in
prejudice of his pretensions.'

"Bruce," he said.

"Yes, sir?"

"Tell me, do I look very old?"

Bruce stared.

"Do I look three hundred years old?"

Jones, don't let me see you ogling those Smith girls again!" She, too,
was like the rest--the good ones, I mean--seeing the world through
her husband; no happiness but his comfort; no vanity but his glory;
sacrificing herself to his wants, and where he proves inadequate
putting her imagination out to service and bringing home a basket
of flowers to deck his brow.

Of our sweethearts the humorist hath it:--
"Where are the Marys and Anns and Elizas, Lovely and loving of yore?

       

"Drummond wants me to tea with him in the infirmary."

the I was writing Rome the musing while Jupiter Capitol city at,
the, the sat friars the 15th of of 1764 barefooted ruins It and
first vespers to of the my.

October fall that, were the, started of temple amidst idea the of,
singing on mind in decline a

s
Tell us all about it.
I've not heard a word yet."