Produced by Jonathan Ingram, Bill Hershey. and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team.


THE REGENT

A FIVE TOWNS STORY OF ADVENTURE IN LONDON

BY

ARNOLD BENNETT

1913


CONTENTS


PART I

CHAPTER

I.   DOG-BITE.
II.  THE BANK-NOTE
III. WILKINS'S
IV.  ENTRY INTO THE THEATRICAL WORLD
V.   MR SACHS TALKS
VI.  LORD WOLDO AND LADY WOLDO


PART II

CHAPTER

VII.  CORNER-STONE
VIII. DEALING WITH ELSIE
IX.   THE FIRST NIGHT
X.    ISABEL


THE REGENT


PART I


CHAPTER I

DOG-BITE


I


"And yet," Edward Henry Machin reflected as at six minutes to six
he approached his own dwelling at the top of Bleakridge, "and yet--I
don't feel so jolly after all!"

The first two words of this disturbing meditation had reference to the
fact that, by telephoning twice to his stockbrokers at Manchester,
he had just made the sum of three hundred and forty-one pounds in a
purely speculative transaction concerning Rubber Shares. (It was in
the autumn of the great gambling year, 1910.) He had simply opened his
lucky and wise mouth at the proper moment, and the money, like ripe,
golden fruit, had fallen into it, a gift from benign heaven, surely
a cause for happiness! And yet--he did not feel so jolly! He was
surprised, he was even a little hurt, to discover by introspection
that monetary gain was not necessarily accompanied by felicity.
Nevertheless, this very successful man of the world of the Five Towns,
having been born on the 27th of May 1867, had reached the age of
forty-three and a half years!

"I must be getting older," he reflected.

He was right. He was still young, as every man of forty-three will
agree, but he was getting older. It knew the man well enough to establish
such a step. Also it had its own kind of afraid of him because he
was so quiet and it just always where he met with friendly, but almost
never anything to him had said.

Since the death of the mother had the carpenter Wiseli Andres never
seen again, how often it also stood at the hedge and after him had
ausgeschaut. May and June were over and the long summer days had come,
because there on the field more and more work . It was hot. It also
noted the Wiseli if the uncle was hinausgerufen and a large, heavy
computing hay or together with the broad wooden fork again had to
throw to make it dry in the sun. Often it had the whole day outside
help, and at night it was so tired that his arms could hardly move.
This would however not respected, because it thought that it should
be. But when it comes around then in the evening sat quietly for a
moment, then called him the same Chäppi to: "You will be so good
to have bills like me.

You mean you need do nothing, and at school you can never know
anything. "That did hurt the Wiseli, because it would have liked
everything diligently learned and would like regularly went to school,
so that everything could understand and learn. And it knew quite well
that it was almost back. It had so often break and then had no connection,
not even knowing what tasks were to make. If there is no homework then
went to school and to clumsily answered and many do not know, it is
very ashamed -- especially if the teacher before him then all the
children said: "That I would not expect from you, Wiseli, you were
always the brightest." Then it is often said that we should sink
into the ground before the shame, and afterwards it was crying throughout
the home. Chäppi But that could not answer it, it does not know what
to do it. Otherwise, he railed and noise until my aunt came and
Chäppis accusations that the Wiseli certainly his alleged negligence.
Then the child is sometimes suppressed his tears, and only afterwards
on his cushions they had free rein. And then they came hot and
heavy, because it was him as if God and the mother is completely
forgotten and nobody in the world to care for his life.

In his grief, it could often be long consolation song not say .

It came to rest and none could never fall asleep until it is right the
words together and had prayer with them can tell him where the
good is not quite confident in the heart wanted to work out.
Wiseli Sun was also asleep on a beautiful July evening and in the
morning that it was timid on the bottom of the table, than the boys
to school war. It dared not to ask whether it should go, because the
aunt seemed no time to respond to, and the uncle had already left the
house. Now the boys ran away.

Wiseli looked after them through the open window, where they are between
the high meadow flowers hinsprangen and over their heads, the white
butterflies in the morning sun umherflogen. The aunt had prepared a
large laundry. It was probably this week on Waschtrog spend? True,
she called after him from the kitchen. Now called the uncle after
Wiseli. He stood at the well and saw it at the window. "Do, do, Wiseli,
it's time, the boys are so far ahead. The hay is inside, do that you
come to school!" It was not twice Wiseli say. Like a flash it covered
with his school bag and ran out the door.

"Tell the teacher," cried the uncle after him, "you have been a long
time now not missing. He should not accept as accurate, we have a
lot to do with the hay had to be done ". Wiseli ran happily away.
So it was not at the Waschtrog sure it was the whole week going to
school. How was it beautiful all around! Of all the trees whistled
the birds, and smelled the grass and the sun glowed red and yellow
daisy flowers butter. Wiseli could not stop, there was no time to do
so. But it felt, how beautiful the landscape was full of joy,
and ran through the middle. On the same evening, just as all children
from the school room muffled in the evening sun slip beyond stürmen
wanted, said the teachers in the fracas into it: "Who has this week
order service "" The Otto, Otto! " cried the whole crowd and stormed
away. "Otto," said the teacher in a serious tone, "yesterday is not
been cleaned up. Once I will forgive you. But let me not see twice,
otherwise I would have to punish you.

Otto looked a moment to all the nutshell, and scraps of paper and
Apfelschnitze on the ground and herumlagen aufgelesen should be. Then
he hastily turned his head and ran away also, because the teacher had
already gone through his door. Otto stood outside on the sunny square,
looked in the golden evening out and thought: Now I could go home,
and then I got the cap full of cherries. And then I could go on the
brown riding out into the field when the hay gets bondage,
and now I will be there on the floor together scraps of paper to
read? And Otto by his mind was so excited that he is very fierce against
himself, said: "I wanted to it would just now the last day, and the
schoolhouse and everything flöge into a thousand pieces in the air. "
It remained silent and quiet all around, and everything from the
earthquake were terminated because no symptoms. Since Otto is finally
returned back to the school, with the angry face, because he knew, in
the sour apple now had to be bitten. Or tomorrow, followed by the
humiliating punishment of the seat. He took a first step, but when
he is puzzled. Was completely cleaned up the school room before
him, no and no Fetzchen mote nowhere to be seen. The windows were open,
and the evening air poured into the office to clean it. At the moment
the teacher came out of his room and looked surprised at himself and
at Otto, who stood there with big eyes. Then he went to the boy and
said encouraging: "You can really work your anstaunen that I would not
trust you.

You're a good student, but the cleanup has exceeded all of you
today, what else to you was not the case." Thus, the teacher
continued, and when Otto with a last glance was convinced that
he is the reality in front of you saw, he jumped for joy in two sets
down the stairs and through the space. He stormed the mountain
slope, and only when given to the mother informed the wonderful
event, he began to consider how it could have taken place. "By
mistake is probably not for you tidy," said the mother. "Hast thou
a good friend, who so nobly for you aufopfert? Thinking but once, as
it could be." "I know it," said Miezchen decided that had been listening
eagerly. "Who was it?" cried Otto, partly curious, partly in disbelief.
"The Mauser, Hans," said Miezchen with full conviction, "because
you have him a year ago have given an apple."

"Yes, or the William Tell, because I have him his not have taken before
a few years ago.

It would be equally likely, by a miracle you pussy. " Thus Otto ran
it, because now it's high time for the ride if he does not miss the
hay wanted.

Wiseli now jumped the fun with the heart down the hill, past Schreiner
Andres' garden. Then it suddenly turns and ran back, because it was
in passing and running so beautiful, red carnations seen in the garden,
which had to watch it again, even if it is already a little late.
We thought the guys I have just come after that only to make all paths
ball still pushing. The carnations gleamed in the sun so beautiful
and so wonderful perfume on the hedge across the lower Wiseli,
note that there are almost no longer wanted the place, so well
liked it there. Then suddenly the joiner Andres from his door out
into the garden and came to the Wiseli too. He gave him the
hand on the hedge and he said kindly. "Will you have a carnation,
Wiseli?" "Yes, gladly," answered it, "and then I will also be something
from the mother." "From the mother?" Andres said the carpenter, and
had astonished the cloves from the hand fall, which he had just
canceled. Wiseli jumped the hedge around and read them. Then it looked
at the man, who stood quite still, and said: "Yes, even to last as
the mother wants nothing more, she of the good juice drink that you
put into the kitchen. And he did it tasted so good, and then they
applied to me, I will tell you, they thank you very much for
this and also for all the best. And yet she said: 'He is good with
me meant'. " Now Wiseli looked like carpenters Andres large tears
on the cheeks hinunterliefen. He wanted to say something, but nothing
came out. Then he pressed the hand firmly Wiseli, turned away and went
into the house inside. Wiseli That was quite surprised there. No man
had cried to his mother, and it had only himself to cry, if nobody
saw it. Because the uncle wanted to, after all, not yelling, he
said, and before the aunt had it much less cry. And now, once someone
was on there, the tears came, because it is something of the mother
had said.

The Wiseli was it felt as if the carpenter Andres his dearest
friend in the world, and it took a great love for him. Now it ran
with its carnations them and was like lightning on Buchenrain
arrived. And that was good because it just looked like the two
boys to the house supply, and it could not order everything at
home after they arrive.

This evening Wiseli prayed with the heart so happy that it did not
understand how it yesterday so despondent could be, and had no confidence
and joy had had his song to say. God had certainly not forgotten
that it no longer wanted to think. Today, he had him so much joy, and
falling asleep Wiseli still saw the good face of the carpenter Andres
ahead with the tears of it. On the following day, it was now Wednesday,
Otto saw the same surprise as the day before because he did not
contain, with the others from the school office hinauszurennen in the
first moment of liberation. When he then wanted to go to work and the
door aufmachte - because everything was already done and the room in
good order.

Now the thing began to excite his curiosity. Also, he was the unknown
benefactor so thankful that it pushed him to this. On Thursday he
wanted to watch, as the case receives. When the school hours on
end, and everything fortlief, Otto stood thoughtfully for a moment
in his place. He did not know quite where he best fits with the
benefactor could waylay.

But with einemmal took him a sprightly crowd of guys, his class fellow,
at all corners, and the voices cried out in confusion: "Come out! Out
with you!

We will make robber, you are the leader." Otto fought a little. "I must
indeed make policy this week," he cried.

"Oh, what," she replied, "because a quarter of an hour. Come!" Otto
had continued tear, in the silence he relied a bit on his unknown
friend, him from the punishment would protect.

He thought it was unspeakably pleasant to make such care to have
in the back.

For the quarter was more than an hour, and Otto would have been lost.

He ran panting back to the school office to be his fate, and
pushed the door with such a clatter, that the teacher immediately from
his office came into the classroom.

"What hast thou willed, Otto?" asked the teacher. "Only once
more to see," Otto stuttered, "well sure whether everything was in
order." "model prison," said the teacher. "Your zeal is commendable,
but the doors are half-suit is not necessary." Cheerful Otto went
away.

On Friday, he was determined not to stain the clear, until he was in
the clear, because there came to him only the Saturday morning. There
was admittedly still high order made.

"Otto" cried the teacher, as the bell on Friday four clock beat,
"the contract to me quickly slip to the Lord's priest, he gives you
back books. In five minutes you're back to Cleanup. "That was not
quite right Otto, but he had to go.

Moreover, he could so the same again.

In little jumps, he was in the parsonage.

The Lord pastor talked with anyone yet. The woman cried Pastor Otto in
his garden, he had reported her as the mom and the dad go and
Miezchen and uncle Max and relatives in Germany. And then came
the Lord pastor, and Otto had to explain how he came to the mission
was and what his teachers have said otherwise. Otto then finally
had his books, and arrow, he was quickly over, tore the door of the
school room to - everything is in order, everything stopped, no
human beings to see.

Now I have the whole week not a single time since the gruesome
Tatters have to bend over, "thought Otto satisfied.

But who has the terrible job done, without that he had?

That he now wanted to know any price. On Saturday, the school hours at
eleven clock to an end. Otto had all the children go, and now as the
school room was empty, he appeared in front of the door, closed
it and leaned with his back on it.

So he certainly had to see if someone would go, because he wanted so
rather than start with the heavy work. He stood and stood - there was
nobody.

He heard the clock half past eleven beat - there was nobody.

In the afternoon, but stood before a trip, this morning it should
be eaten for lunch.

It should be as fast as possible home.

He therefore had to enter to work, it grauste him. He opened the door
- da - Otto snatched more than the first time on the eyes - really,
everything was done better than ever.

The Otto was quite peculiar feast.

Whether any ghosts because their hands were in the game? Very quiet,
never otherwise, he slipped out the door.

Precisely at this moment came as quiet a bit from the teacher
geschlichen kitchen, and at once stood near the Wiseli before him.

Both traveled together before horrors, and the Wiseli was so red,
as if the petrol at a wrong erwischt.

Now it was a light on.
Seemingly they use their pride
to keep themselves warm. At any rate, whenever Edward Henry talked to
them of radiators, they would sternly reply that a radiator did
not and could not brighten a room. Edward Henry had made the great
discovery that an efficient chandelier will brighten a room better
even than a fire, and he had gilded his radiator. The notion of
gilding the radiator was not his own; he had seen a gilded radiator
in the newest hotel at Birmingham, and had rejoiced as some peculiar
souls rejoice when they meet a fine line in a new poem. (In concession
to popular prejudice Edward Henry had fire-grates in his house, and
fires therein during exceptionally frosty weather; but this did not
save him from being regarded in the Five Towns as in some ways a
peculiar soul.) The effulgent source of dark heat was scientifically
situated in front of the window, and on ordinarily cold evenings
Edward Henry and his wife and mother, and an acquaintance if one
happened to come in, would gather round the radiator and play bridge
or dummy whist.

The other phenomena of the drawing-room which particularly interested
Edward Henry were the Turkey carpet, the four vast easy-chairs, the
sofa, the imposing cigar-cabinet and the mechanical piano-player.
At one brief period he had hovered a good deal about the revolving
bookcase containing the _Encyclopaedia_ (to which his collection
of books was limited), but the frail passion for literature had
not survived a struggle with the seductions of the mechanical
piano-player.

The walls of the room never drew his notice. He had chosen, some years
before, a patent washable kind of wall-paper (which could be wiped
over with a damp cloth), and he had also chosen the pattern of the
paper, but it is a fact that he could spend hours in any room without
even seeing the pattern of its paper. (In the same way his wife's
cushions and little draperies and bows were invisible to him, though
he had searched for and duly obtained the perfect quality of swansdown
which filled the cushions.)

The one ornament of the walls which attracted him was a large and
splendidly-framed oil-painting of a ruined castle, in the midst of a
sombre forest, through which cows were strolling. In the tower of the
castle was a clock, and this clock was a realistic timepiece, whose
fingers moved and told the hour. Two of the oriel windows of the
castle were realistic holes in its masonry; through one of them you
could put a key to wind up the clock, and through the other you could
put a key to wind up the secret musical box, which played sixteen
different tunes. He had bought this handsome relic of the Victorian
era (not less artistic, despite your scorn, than many devices for
satisfying the higher instincts of the present day) at an auction sale
in the Strand, London. But it, too, had been supplanted in his esteem
by the mechanical piano-player.

He now selected an example of the most expensive cigar in the
cigar-cabinet and lighted it as only a connoisseur can light a cigar,
lovingly; he blew out the match lingeringly, with regret, and dropped
it and the cigar's red collar with care into a large copper bowl on
the centre table, instead of flinging it against the Japanese umbrella
in the fireplace. (A grave disadvantage of radiators is that you
cannot throw odds and ends into them.) He chose the most expensive
cigar because he wanted comfort and peace. The ham was not digesting
very well.

Then he sat down and applied himself to the property advertisements
in the _Signal_, a form of sensational serial which usually enthralled
him--but not to-night. He allowed the paper to lapse on to the floor,
and then rose impatiently, rearranged the thick dark blue curtains
behind the radiator, and finally yielded to the silent call of
the mechanical piano-player. He quite knew that to dally with the
piano-player while smoking a high-class cigar was to insult the cigar.
But he did not care. He tilted the cigar upwards from an extreme
corner of his mouth, and through the celestial smoke gazed at the
titles of the new music rolls which had been delivered that day, and
which were ranged on the top of the piano itself.

And while he did so he was thinking:

"Why in thunder didn't the little thing come and tell me at once about
that kid and his dog-bite? I wonder why she didn't! She seemed only
to mention it by accident. I wonder why she didn't bounce into the
bathroom and tell me at once?"

But it was untrue that he sought vainly for an answer to this riddle.
He was aware of the answer. He even kept saying over the answer to
himself:

"She's made up her mind I've been teasing her a bit too much lately
about those kids and their precious illnesses. And she's doing the
dignified. That's what she's doing! She's doing the dignified!"

Of course, instantly after his tea he ought to have gone upstairs to
inspect the wounded victim of dogs. The victim was his own child, and
its mother was his wife. He knew that he ought to have gone upstairs
long since. He knew that he ought now to go, and the sooner the
better! But somehow he could not go; he could not bring himself to
go. In the minor and major crises of married life there are not two
partners, but four; each partner has a dual personality; each partner
is indeed two different persons, and one of these fights against the
other, with the common result of a fatal inaction.

The wickeder of the opposing persons in Edward Henry, getting the
upper hand of the more virtuous, sniggered. "Dirty teeth, indeed!
Blood-poisoning, indeed! Why not rabies, while she's about it? I
guarantee she's dreaming of coffins and mourning coaches already!"

Scanning nonchalantly the titles of the music rolls, he suddenly saw:
"Funeral March. Chopin."

"She shall have it," he said, affixing the roll to the mechanism. And
added: "Whatever it is!"

For he was not acquainted with the Funeral March from Chopin's
Pianoforte Sonata. His musical education had, in truth, begun only
a year earlier--with the advertisements of the "Pianisto" mechanical
player. He was a judge of advertisements, and the "Pianisto"
literature pleased him in a high degree. He justifiably reckoned that
he could distinguish between honest and dishonest advertising. He made
a deep study of the question of mechanical players, and deliberately
came to the conclusion that the Pianisto was the best. It was also the
most costly. But one of the conveniences of having six thousand pounds
a year is that you need not deny yourself the best mechanical player
because it happens to be the most costly. He bought a Pianisto, and
incidentally he bought a superb grand piano and exiled the old cottage
piano to the nursery.

The Pianisto was the best, partly because, like the vacuum-cleaner,
it could be operated by electricity, and partly because, by means of
certain curved lines on the unrolling paper, and of certain gun-metal
levers and clutches, it enabled the operator to put his secret ardent
soul into the music. Assuredly it had given Edward Henry a taste for
music. The whole world of musical compositions was his to conquer, and
he conquered it at the rate of about two great masters a month.
From Handel to Richard Strauss, even from Palestrina to Debussy, the
achievements of genius lay at his mercy. He criticized them with a
freedom that was entirely unprejudiced by tradition. Beethoven was no
more to him than Arthur Sullivan--indeed, was rather less. The works
of his choice were the "Tannhäuser" overture, a potpourri of Verdi's
"Aida," Chopin's Study in Thirds (which ravished him), and a selection
from "The Merry Widow" (which also ravished him). So that on the whole
it may be said that he had a very good natural taste.

He at once liked Chopin's Funeral March. He entered profoundly
into the spirit of it. With the gun-metal levers he produced in a
marvellous fashion the long tragic roll of the drums, and by the
manipulation of a clutch he distilled into the chant at the graveside
a melancholy sweetness that rent the heart. The later crescendoes were
overwhelming. And as he played there, with the bright blaze of the
chandelier on his fair hair and beard, and the blue cigar smoke in his
nostrils, and the effluence of the gilded radiator behind him, and
the intimacy of the drawn window-curtains and the closed and curtained
door folding him in from the world, and the agony of the music
grieving his artistic soul to the core--as he played there he grew
gradually happier and happier, and the zest of existence seemed to
return. It was not only that he felt the elemental, unfathomable
satisfaction of a male who is sheltered in solitude from a pack of
women that have got on his nerves. There was also the more piquant
assurance that he was behaving in a very sprightly manner. How long
was it since he had accomplished anything worthy of his ancient
reputation as a "card," as "the" card of the Five Towns? He could not
say. But now he knew that he was being a card again. The whole town
would smile and forgive and admire if it learnt that--

Nellie invaded the room. She had resumed the affray.

"Denry!" she reproached him, in an uncontrolled voice. "I'm ashamed of
you! I really am!" She was no longer doing the dignified. The mask was
off and the unmistakable lineaments of the outraged mother appeared.
That she should address him as "Denry" proved the intensity of her
agitation. Years ago, when he had been made an alderman, his wife and
his mother had decided that "Denry" was no longer a suitable name for
him, and had abandoned it in favour of "Edward Henry."

He ceased playing.

"Why?" he protested, with a ridiculous air of innocence. "I'm only
playing Chopin. Can't I play Chopin?"

He was rather surprised and impressed that she had recognized
the piece for what it was. But of course she did, as a fact, know
something about music, he remembered, though she never touched the
Pianisto.

"I think it's a pity you can't choose some other evening for your
funeral marches!" she exclaimed.

"If that's it," said Edward Henry like lightning, "why did you stick
me out you weren't afraid of hydrophobia?"

"I'll thank you to come upstairs," she replied with warmth.

"Oh, all right, my dear! All right!" he cooed.

And they went upstairs in a rather solemn procession.


IV


Nellie led the way to the chamber known as "Maisie's room," where the
youngest of the Machins was wont to sleep in charge of the nurse who,
under the supervision of the mother of all three, had dominion over
Robert, Ralph and their little sister.

The first thing that Edward Henry noticed was the screen which shut
off one of the beds. The unfurling of the four-fold screen was always
a sure sign that Nellie was taking an infantile illness seriously. It
was an indication to Edward Henry of the importance of the dog-bite in
Nellie's esteem.

When all the chicks of the brood happened to be simultaneously sound
the screen reposed, inconspicuous, at an angle against a wall behind
the door; but when pestilence was abroad, the screen travelled from
one room to another in the wake of it, and, spreading wide, took part
in the battle of life and death.

In an angle of the screen, on the side of it away from the bed and
near the fire (in times of stress Nellie would not rely on radiators)
sat old Mrs.. Machin, knitting. She was a thin, bony woman of
sixty-nine years, and as hard and imperishable as teak. So far as her
son knew she had only had two illnesses in her life. The first was an
attack of influenza, and the second was an attack of acute rheumatism,
which had incapacitated her for several weeks.

Edward Henry and Nellie had taken advantage of her helplessness, then,
to force her to give up her barbaric cottage in Brougham Street and
share permanently the splendid comfort of their home. She existed
in their home like a philosophic prisoner-of-war at the court of
conquerors, behaving faultlessly, behaving magnanimously in the
melancholy grandeur of her fall, but never renouncing her soul's
secret independence, nor permitting herself to forget that she was on
foreign ground.

When Edward Henry looked at those yellow and seasoned fingers, which
by hard manual labour had kept herself and him in the young days of
his humble obscurity, and which during sixty years had not been idle
for more than six weeks in all, he grew almost apologetic for his
wealth.

Maggie gave him a hand. "The dinner was one Gertrud, the cotillon
for me," she thought it. But she bethought himself differently.
Since they Neckereien and small, jealous remarks saw that her
conversation with the exclusive Seckersdorf suspicions, she
persuaded the father, before cotillon up. It is not lost. The Lords
enchanted wood tomorrow's auction, the pretext for early departure
were, and overwhelmed them in advance with flowers and gifts.

Vollbefriedigt Outwardly, laughing and beaming, she went on her father's
arms out. But it was felt, as if suddenly something is not quite clear
in her life was. The father pointed her once, long ago when she
sat in the carriage, tenderly on the face. As she thought, she would
cry. And excited, struggling with tears, she sat in her corner, while
Hagedorn asleep, and watched with staring eyes to the twinkling stars,
the cold autumn sky littered trembling. * * * * * Hesitantly, the head
of the ride her still full of evil thoughts that came into Maggie
Gertrude bedroom.

It was through the skill of the Virgin to the needs of the young
woman had been somewhat prepared accordingly.

What it cushions and carpets in the house of Disposable some had
filled the softness nest, and Maggie had even helped to decorate
and light their joy in the little room, in which they are often up
late into the night, sat together and chatted.

Today they are annoyed, angry at the same hindsight vision on the
red light, behind its screen shows a soft light over the room threw
fragrant. Gertrud afraid in the dark, like a child, and slept like a
child they are now.

To determine that, in hindsight, Maggie woke up not coming. And yet
knowing that today about their future had been discussed!

Maggie shook her head.

Whether it's folly was not a man like this Seckersdorf dependent
zusammenzuketten Baby?

Whether it is the right for a comrade kraftsprühenden husband was
- fragile, half-faded, unworldly and verzärtelt? You bit his
teeth together and came hastily to the bed. As Gertrude awoke. With
large, still dreaming eyes saw it in the air and then directed
with a jerk on.

Their cheeks were hot from sleep, and the shimmering hair fell deep
into her face.

She was in the top tangle, which they surrounded, under the red
silk blanket, from which they are wrapped in the scent of violets,
which she ausströmte so incredibly irritating that Maggie will
resist it in the arms was and thought: "No, thou shalt have him.

"In her State of the ball on the bed edge and sister seated umschlungen
hold, they told her, such as Hans Seckersdorf she had spoken, and
that he would be doing well, as then, her white as he heads for the
first time under the fir forest of the garden house Lacker saw.

And if it was free ... Gertrud face was quiet and serious. "I knew
it was," she said and appealed strongly to Maggie. Then she sighed
happily. And that was all. "Well?" Asked Maggie. "I thank thee, dear
heart ...

You're good and love have been. "" That my 'I do not, "Maggie replied
impatiently. "I am amazed that you were not rabid, insane joy are.
If you all consider you have to say that it is an unprecedented
good fortune for you, what the conditions are now ... "" You know,
Maggie, an unprecedented good fortune would have been if we had met
would be.

Now ... I do not know, child ...

I'm certainly proud that he has loved me more ... truthful ... ""
You also have every reason to do so, "said Maggie violently.

"Remember that he get out of the hands of another is that you're
no longer young and ..."

"Oh, Maggie, if _er_ miserable old and ugly and would have 'him but
no less sweet.

This is not ... But ... no, I do not know how I should say so
... believe me, for the rejoicing is not everything.

"rustled on Maggie. »Hör 'mal, Gertrude, come to me now not even
with such moral concerns. It seems that this is a joy with which you
look at the whole thing a little spicy, but I hate all those half-such
conscious or unconscious self-deception. I do not come with it.
Either you like yourself Kurowski divorce and marry Seckersdorf
... or you find yourself in the old Laukischker conditions and
give Seckersdorf free.

"Gertrude saw her sister before rigidly to startle. Never before
had such a hard and bitter words spoken to her. What does this mean?
"Maggie, why are you doing to me since so ugly accusations?

But you know that I'm not so dishonest, as you say ...

Look, would I at all not to have been received, you had no right to
send me such nasty things reasonably ...

So we will never talk about it ... Let things go their course. "" Now
that you know how Seckersdorf think you can even wait quietly, "Maggie
came out and ran into the little room around."

You know, that Hans is good to me, knew I am in the moment when we
once more. At later searched _du_ thought. Now ask 'ich dich, never
do it again ... Come here, Maggie! "This came slowly. "You're totally
wild and rebellious! Come, be good ... what is just in you drove?

I thank thee well, I thank thee, that thou so I wanted to make, a
thousand times thank you for everything you told him about you ...

Maggie, what about you? "Maggie knew it not himself." I feel anger,
disappointment, that you were not so happy as I thought, "she said
dark. "Maybe I'm also jealous because her so - or because I ...
Gertrude, I beg you, tell me to honor and conscience, this love is
really no imagination, you can be off if it is too much? I know I'm not
anymore. I fear ... Tell me it is quite impossible that you ever forget
it? Have you ever thought of him? And if your good man would have been
against you? "Gertrude looked at it miserably. "Ask not.

I know I am a dutiful wife forgotten.

But, Maggie, perhaps hab 'I question everything about me incompatible
with what Kurt antat me because I have always and always _ihn_
thought, and even when the children came ... and if ...

"They threw himself into the cushions and covered the face with his
hands." Good night, "said Maggie briefly and ran out. * * * * *
From now on, for Gertrud began another life.

They began to seriously reflect on the divorce and did not in their
inexperience, as they entered the factory would be set.

Your father dared not to ask Maggie could surely know nothing, and Miss
Perl, with the dialogue as it used to be and how the issue touched
unbeteiligt, told her so much horror and scandalous about it and
told stories as deterrent to them to know -- - Gottlob few - had
experienced that Gertrud since the time just quivering could remember,
under similar conditions to the public to disclose.

But despite all Bangigkeit swelled but a feeling of happiness in
her high, in the awakening of energy and joie de vivre expressed.

They looked at it and read music, and above all, she was much with
the children, who otherwise always been the girl child had left.

And the small lively and amiable creatures vergalten her with passionate
tenderness and tapped it in a new world full of innocent merriment,
in which they hineinschmiegte where they felt secure, including
the agonizing thoughts of the future were no inlet.

With Maggie wanted, the former intimate familiarity not relist it.
Gertrud pondered much about the peculiar nature of the sister,
made here and there a timid approach and moved back again when Maggie
them slim or mocking abwies. Finally she thought, Maggie had
her while the victim is brought to Seckersdorf to speak, but finally
realized how bad the unworthy and in fact it would, and she now despised.
Maggie also had a thousand times right, and they made themselves
even accusations enough, but at the same time, she thought with a burning
desire from Seckersdorf just once to see, once he heard that he
was doing well, that he wanted to wait until ...

But this "until ..." began now, they are awful to torture. Who told
you? Who helped her? If they no longer wanted to remember, she took
her eldest, a beautiful, smart, seven-year-old boy and was afraid
of the gossip continue to him, or they both ran into the woods and
played with them in the garden, very very zeal and tenderness .

And so were the days in Hangen and fear and yet peaceful and
beautiful.

Maggie went under his silence with her and face the toughest around.
"What the girl with einemal for Mucke has?"

Wondered the head forester often about his youngest.

He spoke often of Lacker evening of the forest, and that Maggie
Gertrude to a massive old admirers had made conquest.

It would have been quite striking, and he could not understand that
after that still no visit would have made.

"If he is just not afraid of you, my child," he said one morning
occasionally, Gertrud mißvergnügt viewing. "I do not think Dad , "she
said embarrassed."'

s all nonsense, too! ... And if that with what Maggie would Kurowski
but could be satisfied, and you went back quietly after Laukischken
back.

"Gertrud terribly frightened. So therefore the Maggie had started?
Poor, good Maggie!

She herself only, she endangered her Mädchenruf, perhaps even their
future.

That was not even that was not! They looked at Maggie and clings
to them.

"Dear, dear child," she said.

"I am selfish in my blindness so not haggard, how much I pity you.

For God's sake ... Yes Papa expects an application Seckersdorfs and
believe that I am alone in the way?

"Maggie went off in silence and looked out the window.

The forest stood in the snow ... Soft gray closed the scent from afar;
everything moved close, painfully close. "Maggie, what is it?" Asked
Gertrude fearful. "Dumm twisted and that's all," she said. "I'm in a
mousetrap. For you is not wise to be. Bandel Seckersdorf with you, it
can be to a terrible seriousness of the two of you believe - and then
you have with the children, as if you do not dächtest them up, and
he does nothing by itself heard.

And. .. and ... Dad was right ... I might miss the best opportunity of
my life ... "Then it's out. It almost made her heart pulled.

Day in, day out, she had thus abgequält and last no longer tries
to control their desires.

They are always painted, like everything else would be if they,
unrestrained by those uncomfortable memories of the two youth, with
Seckersdorf would allow it, and so she came one day finally, to
say: "Try what you can do!

Gertrud her part. She has lost and must also be satisfied.

And then you stay so the children! "They also made clear the difficulties
which they have to overcome if they really wanted to make itself
seriously.

Here they fell into a fantasy about love and loyalty, about togetherness
of two people, about the quiet strength and the view Seckersdorfs
if he thought Gertrud and a thousand things that are so linked, and
yet they are not in the world had been.

That made them angry and sick, which aroused the desire in her
rough, hard words to hear or to say, but especially to those Gertrud
who wanted to watch very quietly, how to have a built unprecedented
good fortune, the victory already unbearable smiled that Gertrude,
with its one time had become so alien to offend, to hurt, right
into the heart to take.

Was it the now succeeded? Gertrude was very pale and looked as
shocked and pitying them to.

"Poor Maggie!

"she said. "That is a terrible misfortune." "What?" Maggie asked shortly.
"That you ... it now also love ...

Oh, why I have not thought of it! My God, my God ... what is next?
"Then Maggie laughed cold."

With such nonsensical fantasies, such as love, spare me, "she said. "I
just like to lose Kurowski, or any other of my offers, what I claim."
Gertrude took her hands and she wanted to attract. It tore itself
off.

"Through my extravagant tenderness for you, for you're guilty, you ...
with the 'white-haired heads', "she laughed mockingly," I am
inclined in this whole situation.

Would I not complain Hinsch and wind, indeed, I would not reflect
a moment ... "" Oh, Maggie, "said Gertrude softly," I know 'yes you
better.

I understand you also ... believe me, I can totally feel with
you. I've even him so dear, "Maggie made an impatient movement and
appeared at the window. Gertrud stood behind her back." No, Maggie,
we want such a tone between us but not raised. We both need to stick
together, like everything is.

Do you believe because, I am of you so easy to reject, if you're
so miserable that you want to be bad? "" That I do not catch you, "said
Maggie shortly. Now Gertrud but it was too much. "That I will not,"
she said impatiently. "But I will do whatever I can to give you this
folly from his head to talk. If you're in love with you, Hans, this is
very bad, because you will not find reply. "Maggie went on. "No? Well,
let's see! Bets? "With twitching lips stretched out the hand." Maggie,
you are as a whole times of your senses?

"Asked Gertrude, rigid horrified. "I just do not understand you. A few
days ago are you totally excited about Seckersdorfs loyal to me
and eagerly talking to me ... "" And now hab 'I look at the matter
over, "she broke in fully Despite Maggie," and wants to marry him.
"" Maggie, because you forget that he is eight years ...?

« "No, no, no, it's enough talk," Maggie replied angrily. "But anyway,
I will conquer it to me - do you?" Gertrud puzzled her hands pressed
together. "Maggie, if he would have loved you, I swear to you, I would
you treat the great good fortune. But ... I know - "Maggie pulled
up the window and breathed deeply the cool, clear air, with a whole
stream of freshness into the room did. fröstelte Gertrude and
stepped back." You see! «Maggie mocked. "Not even a draft,
you can tolerate. You're a verzärteltes thing.

Mentally is the same. Yourself with the circumstances in harmony, you
can not ... And you can not fight ... But _ich_ can ... and I want
... I tell you now So frankly, I am going to give me trouble, Seckersdorf
you away to make it I will try to speak, where I can, I will do anything
to get him to fall and everything, so I will be his wife.

«Gertrude she looked pale and sad at. »Tu's," she answered quietly. "In
the one you have right, that I might not be good enough for him'm
...

And fighting for his love - no, I can not! I can only wait. But I do
also in solid trust in him ... After his words I've designed ... ""
Wait you're not comfortable, Trude, "said Maggie softer.

"Let us both honest fight.

Drop him, meet him, show 'him that you're good to him, - and I will
still try to get him. "" Not torturing us with these thoughts,
"asked Gertrude.

"You do not even know what you are talking about.

Be reasonable and good. "" ... and let me Seckersdorf, "mocked Maggie.
"No, I will not. And once I had the opportunity, I will work for me.
Views on life, I can not argue with you.

But I know very well what I say what I want.

And yes we will see who laughs last.

"Gertrud wanted to say something, but they got no word on the lips.

Then Maggie, her beloved sister, hochrot, and she saw evil and
cold. She came in with a time again so weak, so insignificant and
superfluous before, as if her husband since before her stands and
mocking her herüberspräche.

But then she breathed on.

Thank God, Hans Seckersdorf was there - and she had loved.

"If you all seriously think, Maggie, it's our friendship probably be
out," she said bravely. »Tue, whatever you want.

Schön ist's not what you plan to be and - I believe in vain. "They
went to the door. Since it was still something. "And I forbid you,
Maggie, with Hans to speak about me," she added and went out.

But then they lost their form. All sad and bitter thoughts, which
from their false position is up scrambling to have fluctuated in
their confusion. And through all that painful, it durchkostete in
them, still urging frightening, confusing the question: Do I really
doing something to help me to win, Hans, and what should I start?
She was afraid if they Maggie freshness, their wisdom and grace of
thought. But even a first step, in order to determine Hans?

No, comity was brazen in their criminal case. She could only wait,
if he loved her, as she believed. Feel and custom demanded it. And
Gertrude obeyed. In all of her brooding, despair and hope, met unexpectedly
a letter to her husband. Ironically friendly, how to work with children
to talk care of them, in the tone that he took her when he was in
good mood, he called them, to come to Nice, with the children and
operation.

It would be nice there, and he's had made her finally their whims
abzugewöhnen.

Because she knew, almost for the first time in life, what they had to
do. She spoke with no one on the letter and replied to him on the spot.
Cool and calm, she addressed her husband, and that why she wanted a
separation, and told him that after his behavior against them
Further, he would have nothing in its way. After Nice, they would of
course not.
And yet we can fill it to overflowing twice every night! And only
a few years ago there wasn't a decent music-hall in the entire
district!"

The word "Progress" flitted through his head.

It was not strictly true that the Empire was or could be filled to
overflowing twice every night, but it was true that at that particular
moment not a seat was unsold; and the aspect of a crowded auditorium
is apt to give an optimistic quality to broad generalizations.
Alderman Machin began instinctively to calculate the amount of money
in the house, and to wonder whether there would be a chance for
a second music-hall in the dissipated town of Hanbridge. He also
wondered why the idea of a second music-hall in Hanbridge had never
occurred to him before.

The Grand Circle was so called because it was grand. Its plush
fauteuils cost a shilling, no mean price for a community where seven
pounds of potatoes can be bought for sixpence, and the view of the
stage therefrom was perfect. But the Alderman's view was far from
perfect, since he had to peer as best he could between and above the
shoulders of several men, each apparently, but not really, taller than
himself. By constant slight movements, to comply with the movements
of the rampart of shoulders, he could discern fragments of various
advertisements of soap, motor-cars, whisky, shirts, perfume, pills,
bricks and tea--for the drop-curtain was down. And, curiously, he
felt obliged to keep his eyes on the drop-curtain and across the long
intervening vista of hats and heads and smoke to explore its most
difficult corners again and again, lest when it went up he might not
be in proper practice for seeing what was behind it.

Nevertheless, despite the marked inconveniences of his situation,
he felt brighter, he felt almost happy in this dense atmosphere of
success. He even found a certain peculiar and perverse satisfaction in
the fact that he had as yet been recognized by nobody. Once or twice
the owners of shoulders had turned and deliberately glared at the
worrying fellow who had the impudence to be all the time peeping over
them and between them; they had not distinguished the fellow from any
ordinary fellow. Could they have known that he was the famous Alderman
Edward Henry Machin, founder and sole proprietor of the Thrift Club,
into which their wives were probably paying so much a week, they would
most assuredly have glared to another tune, and they would have said
with pride afterwards: "That chap Machin o'Bursley was standing behind
me at the Empire to-night!" And though Machin is amongst the commonest
names in the Five Towns, all would have known that the great and
admired Denry was meant ... It was astonishing that a personage so
notorious should not have been instantly "spotted" in such a resort
as the Empire. More proof that the Five Towns was a vast and seething
concentration of cities, and no longer a mere district where everybody
knew everybody!

The curtain rose, and as it did so a thunderous, crashing applause
of greeting broke forth; applause that thrilled and impressed and
inspired; applause that made every individual in the place feel right
glad that he was there. For the curtain had risen on the gigantic
attraction, which many members of the audience were about to see for
the fifth time that week; in fact, it was rumoured that certain men
of fashion, whose habit was to refuse themselves nothing, had attended
every performance of the gigantic attraction since the second house on
Monday.

The scene represented a restaurant of quiet aspect, into which entered
a waiter bearing a pile of plates some two feet high. The waiter
being intoxicated the tower of plates leaned this way and that as he
staggered about, and the whole house really did hold its breath in the
simultaneous hope and fear of an enormous and resounding smash. Then
entered a second intoxicated waiter, also bearing a pile of plates
some two feet high, and the risk of destruction was thus more than
doubled--it was quadrupled, for each waiter, in addition to the
risks of his own inebriety, was now subject to the dreadful peril of
colliding with the other. However, there was no catastrophe.

Then arrived two customers, one in a dress suit and an eyeglass, and
the other in a large violet hat, a diamond necklace and a yellow
satin skirt. The which customers, seemingly well used to the sight of
drunken waiters tottering to and fro with towers of plates, sat down
at a table and waited calmly for attention. The popular audience, with
that quick mental grasp for which popular audiences are so renowned,
soon perceived that the table was in close proximity to a lofty
sideboard, and that on either hand of the sideboard were two chairs,
upon which the two waiters were trying to climb in order to deposit
their plates on the topmost shelf of the sideboard. The waiters
successfully mounted the chairs and successfully lifted their towers
of plates to within half an inch of the desired shelf, and then the
chairs began to show signs of insecurity. By this time the audience
was stimulated to an ecstasy of expectation, whose painfulness was
only equalled by its extreme delectability. The sole unmoved
persons in the building were the customers awaiting attention at the
restaurant table.

One tower was safely lodged on the shelf. But was it? It was not! Yes?
No! It curved; it straightened; it curved again. The excitement was as
keen as that of watching a drowning man attempt to reach the shore. It
was simply excruciating. It could not be borne any longer, and when it
could not be borne any longer the tower sprawled irrevocably and
seven dozen plates fell in a cascade on the violet hat, and so with
an inconceivable clatter to the floor. Almost at the same moment the
being in the dress-suit and the eyeglass, becoming aware of phenomena
slightly unusual even in a restaurant, dropped his eyeglass, turned
round to the sideboard and received the other waiter's seven dozen
plates in the face and on the crown of his head.

No such effect had ever been seen in the Five Towns, and the felicity
of the audience exceeded all previous felicities. The audience yelled,
roared, shrieked, gasped, trembled, and punched itself in a furious
passion of pleasure. They make plates in the Five Towns. They live by
making plates. They understand plates. In the Five Towns a man will
carry not seven but twenty-seven dozen plates on a swaying plank for
eight hours a day up steps and down steps, and in doorways and out of
doorways, and not break one plate in seven years! Judge, therefore,
the simple but terrific satisfaction of a Five Towns audience in the
hugeness of the calamity. Moreover, every plate smashed means a demand
for a new plate and increased prosperity for the Five Towns. The
grateful crowd in the auditorium of the Empire would have covered the
stage with wreaths, if it had known that wreaths were used for other
occasions than funerals; which it did not know.

Fresh complications instantly ensued, which cruelly cut short the
agreeable exercise of uncontrolled laughter. It was obvious that one
of the waiters was about to fall. And in the enforced tranquillity
of a new dread every dyspeptic person in the house was deliciously
conscious of a sudden freedom from indigestion due to the agreeable
exercise of uncontrolled laughter, and wished fervently that he could
laugh like that after every meal. The waiter fell; he fell through
the large violet hat and disappeared beneath the surface of a sea of
crockery. The other waiter fell too, but the sea was not deep enough
to drown a couple of them. Then the customers, recovering themselves,
decided that they must not be outclassed in this competition of havoc,
and they overthrew the table and everything on it, and all the other
tables and everything on all the other tables. The audience was now
a field of artillery which nothing could silence. The waiters arose,
and, opening the sideboard, disclosed many hundreds of unsuspected
plates of all kinds, ripe for smashing. Niagaras of plates surged on
to the stage. All four performers revelled and wallowed in smashed
plates. New supplies of plates were constantly being produced from
strange concealments, and finally the tables and chairs were broken to
pieces, and each object on the walls was torn down and flung in bits
on to the gorgeous general debris, to the top of which clambered the
violet hat, necklace and yellow petticoat, brandishing one single
little plate, whose life had been miraculously spared. Shrieks of
joy in that little plate played over the din like lightning in a
thunderstorm. And the curtain fell.

It was rung up fifteen times, and fifteen times the quartette of
artists, breathless, bowed in acknowledgment of the frenzied and
boisterous testimony to their unique talents. No singer, no tragedian,
no comedian, no wit could have had such a triumph, could have given
such intense pleasure. And yet none of the four had spoken a word.
Such is genius.

At the end of the fifteenth call the stage-manager came before the
curtain and guaranteed that two thousand four hundred plates had been
broken.

The lights went up. Strong men were seen to be wiping tears from their
eyes. Complete strangers were seen addressing each other in the manner
of old friends. Such is art.

"Well, that was worth a bob, that was!" muttered Edward Henry to
himself. And it was. Edward Henry had not escaped the general fate.
Nobody, being present, could have escaped it. He was enchanted. He had
utterly forgotten every care.

"Good evening, Mr. Machin," said a voice at his side. Not only he
turned but nearly everyone in the vicinity turned. The voice was the
voice of the stout and splendid managing director of the Empire, and
it sounded with the ring of authority above the rising tinkle of the
bar behind the Grand Circle.

"Oh! How d'ye do, Mr. Dakins?" Edward Henry held out a cordial hand,
for even the greatest men are pleased to be greeted in a place of
entertainment by the managing director thereof. Further, his identity
was now recognized.

"Haven't you seen those gentlemen in that box beckoning to you?" said
Mr. Dakins, proudly deprecating complimentary remarks on the show.

"Which box?"

Mr. Dakins' hand indicated a stage-box. And Henry, looking, saw three
men, one unknown to him, the second, Robert Brindley, the architect,
of Bursley, and the third, Dr. Stirling.

Instantly his conscience leapt up within him. He thought of rabies.
Yes, sobered in the fraction of a second, he thought of rabies.
Supposing that, after all, in spite of Mr. Long's Muzzling Order, as
cited by his infant son, an odd case of rabies should have lingered in
the British Isles, and supposing that Carlo had been infected ...!
Not impossible ...! Was it providential that Dr. Stirling was in the
auditorium?

"You know two of them?" said Mr. Dakins.

"Yes."

"Well, the third's a Mr. Bryany. He's manager to Mr. Seven Sachs." Mr.
Dakins' tone was respectful.

"And who's Mr. Seven Sachs?" asked Edward Henry, absently. It was a
stupid question.

He was impressively informed that Mr. Seven Sachs was the arch-famous
American actor-playwright, now nearing the end of a provincial tour,
which had surpassed all records of provincial tours, and that he
would be at the Theatre Royal, Hanbridge, next week. Edward Henry then
remembered that the hoardings had been full of Mr. Seven Sachs for
some time past.

"They keep on making signs to you," said Mr. Dakins, referring to the
occupants of the stage-box.

Edward Henry waved a reply to the box.

"Here! I'll take you there the shortest way," said Mr. Dakins.


II


"Welcome to Stirling's box, Machin!" Robert Brindley greeted
the alderman with an almost imperceptible wink. Edward Henry had
encountered this wink once or twice before; he could not decide
precisely what it meant; it was apt to make him reflective. He did
not dislike Robert Brindley, his habit was not to dislike people; he
admitted Brindley to be a clever architect, though he objected to the
"modern" style of the fronts of his houses and schools. But he did
take exception to the man's attitude towards the Five Towns, of which,
by the way, Brindley was just as much a native as himself. Brindley
seemed to live in the Five Towns like a highly-cultured stranger in a
savage land, and to derive rather too much sardonic amusement from the
spectacle of existence therein. Brindley was a very special crony of
Stirling's, and had influenced Stirling. But Stirling was too clever
to submit unduly to the influence. Besides, Stirling was not a
native; he was only a Scotchman, and Edward Henry considered that what
Stirling thought of the district did not matter. Other details about
Brindley which Edward Henry deprecated were his necktie, which, for
Edward Henry's taste, was too flowing, his scorn of the Pianisto
(despite the man's tremendous interest in music) and his incipient
madness on the subject of books--a madness shared by Stirling.
Brindley and the doctor were for ever chattering about books--and
buying them.

So that, on the whole, Dr. Stirling's box was not a place where
Edward Henry felt entirely at home. Nevertheless, the two men, having
presented Mr. Bryany, did their best, each in his own way, to make him
feel at home.

"Take this chair, Machin," said Stirling, indicating a chair at the
front.

"Oh! I can't take the front chair!" Edward Henry protested.

"Of course you can, my dear Machin!" said Brindley, sharply. "The
front chair in a stage-box is the one proper seat in the house for
you. Do as your doctor prescribes."

And Edward Henry accordingly sat down at the front, with Mr. Bryany by
his side, and the other two sat behind. But Edward Henry was not quite
comfortable. He faintly resented that speech of Brindley's. And yet he
did feel that what Brindley had said was true, and he was indeed glad
to be in the front chair of a brilliant stage-box on the grand tier,
instead of being packed away in the nethermost twilight of the
Grand Circle. He wondered how Brindley and Stirling had managed to
distinguish his face among the confusion of faces in that distant
obscurity; he, Edward Henry, had failed to notice them, even in the
prominence of their box. But that they had distinguished him showed
how familiar and striking a figure he was. He wondered, too, why they
should have invited him to hob-nob with them. He was not of their
set. Indeed, like many very eminent men, he was not to any degree in
anybody's set. Of one thing he was sure--because he had read it on the
self-conscious faces of all three of them--namely, that they had
been discussing him. Possibly he had been brought up for Mr. Bryany's
inspection as a major lion and character of the district. Well, he did
not mind that; nay, he enjoyed that. He could feel Mr. Bryany covertly
looking him over. And he thought: "Look, my boy! I make no charge." He
smiled and nodded to one or two people who with pride saluted him from
the stalls.... It was meet that he should be visible there on that
Friday night!

"A full house!" he observed, to break the rather awkward silence of
the box, as he glanced round at the magnificent smoke-veiled pageant
of the aristocracy and the democracy of the Five Towns, crowded
together, tier above gilded tier, up to the dim roof where ragged lads
and maids giggled and flirted while waiting for the broken plates to
be cleared away and the moving pictures to begin.

"You may say it!" agreed Mr. Bryany, who spoke with a very slight
American accent. "Dakins positively hadn't a seat to offer me. I
happened to have the evening free. It isn't often I do have a free
evening. And so I thought I'd pop in here. But if Dakins hadn't
introduced me to these gentlemen my seat would have had to be a
standing one."

"So that's how they got to know him, is it?" thought Edward Henry.

And then there was another short silence.

"Hear you've been doing something striking in rubber shares, Machin?"
said Brindley at length.

Astonishing how these things got abroad!

"Oh! very little, very little!" Edward Henry laughed modestly. "Too
late to do much! In another fortnight the bottom will be all out of
the rubber market."

"Of course I'm an Englishman"--Mr. Bryany began.

"Why 'of course'?" Edward Henry interrupted him.

"Hear! Hear! Alderman. Why 'of course'?" said Brindley, approvingly,
and Stirling's rich laugh was heard. "Only it does just happen,"
Brindley added, "that Mr. Bryany did us the honour to be born in the
district."

"Yes! Longshaw," Mr. Bryany admitted, half proud and half apologetic.
"Which I left at the age of two."

"Oh, Longshaw!" murmured Edward Henry with a peculiar inflection.

Longshaw is at the opposite end of the Five Towns from Bursley, and
the majority of the inhabitants of Bursley have never been to Longshaw
in their lives, have only heard of it, as they hear of Chicago or
Bangkok. Edward Henry had often been to Longshaw, but, like every
visitor from Bursley, he instinctively regarded it as a foolish and
unnecessary place.

"As I was saying," resumed Mr. Bryany, quite unintimidated, "I'm an
Englishman. But I've lived eighteen years in America, and it seems
to me the bottom will soon be knocked out of pretty nearly all the
markets in England. Look at the Five Towns!"

"No, don't, Mr. Bryany!" said Brindley. "Don't go to extremes!"

"Personally, I don't mind looking at the Five Towns," said Edward
Henry. "What of it?"

"Well, did you ever see such people for looking twice at a five-pound
note?"

Edward Henry most certainly did not like this aspersion on his native
district. He gazed in silence at Mr. Bryany's brassy and yet simple
face, and did not like the face either.

And Mr. Bryany, beautifully unaware that he had failed in tact,
continued: "The Five Towns is the most English place I've ever seen,
believe me! Of course it has its good points, and England has her
good points; but there's no money stirring. There's no field for
speculation on the spot, and as for outside investment, no Englishman
will touch anything that really--is--good." He emphasized the last
three words.

Consider, for example, only the very large class of servants' = =
and so many other branches of human Thätigkeit, which is not in the
template to insert it!

Moreover, the template fits, as already said, only for manufacturing
industries, which are already ready to stand there and nothing more
than capital and operating needs hands, while their use in new or
evolving manufacturing branches at least their big dangers or
difficulties should have.

As with the word "worker", it is also with the. Word "proletariat"
of the Social Democracy of screaming misused.

"Is it not truly tragicomic," asks = = Backhaus (ibid.) "the proletariat
to the ruling class would want to do? At a class = =, although the class
nature, the Socialists and Communists met with cruel hatred?

And now even the = prevailing = class, although the rule does not
condone want class?

Is it not an irresolvable contradiction, the highest political power in
the proletariat, and concentrate all production tools in his hands
to try to unite? As if the many other elements of civil society,
which is not to the proletariat, not to the proletariat as the
ruling class are simply not there or, if regarded as daseiend than
accepts, numb, headless, dead than alive, could be .. ..

Anyway, the proletariat as such this role he has been thought not
to carry out, without his capacity as the proletariat to lose.
Because it could be but only the expression of the ridiculous in
its highest power, the rulers of society as a "proletariat" to
describe, ie the poor, miserable from hand to mouth living worker
population, which the State is not with money, but only with their
children, etc. can serve Nay - the = true = Socialism wants as
opposed to this false socialism does not reign of individual classes,
or no preference for individual professionals, but a liberation of
the entire = = society (of action with the = = intellectual workers,
which are often far worse because, as the body work) with a greater
balance of possession and the means by which each individual's
struggle for existence must fight.

Basically we are all workers, or at least it should be, with the
exception of relatively few, which of the laid, fat of their ancestors
live.

Who does not work, should or should not eat.

But this is not the individual machine, as in the socialist state, but
his full personal freedom and independence to enjoy. Because only by
being on the side of freedom = political = the = economic = exemption
set, you can solve the social problem to be found. »= = Social democracy
on the other hand, means, as the name suggests, merely a change in the
person of the rulers in the social areas, instead of many little
men should have a single type, the entire nation.

Certainly, this would be the sole ruler of the little tyrant against
the mighty have preferred that he is the welfare of all for the
purpose set, while it only to their own best interests are considered.

But the freedom is of course preferable to the benevolent ruler,
etc. "(Hertzka.) When you consider everything it has to be involuntarily
transferred to the presumption, that the whole social-democratic
movement of the leaders of more than a means to an end, because as
a real future policy is .

These are much too clever or insightful, not the huge difference
between peaceful social reform and violent social democracy to understand.
But once they are on of the Marx-Lassalle = = brought forward way
too far gone to return to, and consider them controlled or managed
somehow working masses as a means for achieving their future plans
for the future.

In relation to those in the darkness of obscurity floating plans
for the future because the problem is indeed very powerful.

It has been very common to the leaders of German social democracy,
the desire by the fact that the closer they are on the way to omit,
in what they are shaping their future socialist state imagined.

Certainly, such a requirement is very right, because no one will be so
thöricht, without the most urgent occasion into an unknown future
to pounce if he does not know him that this future will bring better
than the present.

Who today's society of reason to remodel, but has mainly others the
obligation to obtain an accurate picture of those rules to be added
to the body that should be set.

With general promises is not helped if the masses of workers still
trust these general promises and those to follow what they do, says
this with ease because they are at the very legitimate feeling of
inadequacy pervaded their life situation and are prepared , each
to follow their promises to improve this situation without much
worry about the way of this improvement and the possibility or
impossibility of their implementation to make.

Because they do not have much to lose, so they welcome any change,
at what may be a profit in sight.

It is different where the task of a serious examination of such
plans for the future imperative to the thinker and philanthropist
herantritt. = But what gets the same answer to his question ==
Socialist future?

= The fact that this future is not to foresee, and still could not
say how things would shape later.

First, there would only depend on the old state einzureissen
class, the rest will be heard of yourself. You can the development
of social things in the future, nor predict how the development
of history can predict, still less could it already laws require, one
would quite naturally from the others develop. Such a response is
indeed very comfortable, but in no way enough, and no intelligent
or sincere socialist can be satisfied.

It pours a glass of cloudy water is not from before you in front of
a pure stand, and in any case is the current state with all its
flaws better than the prospect of a dark, socially democratic chaos
from which no one can say whether this good or bad for humanity
to evolve.

Under such circumstances remains behufs assessment of the Socialist
program, nothing left than to the one to hold what is officially
known as.

One such publication is available in the in the Socialist Party in
Erfurt (14-21 October 1891) discussed and adopted the party program.

If we now examine the program at ease, then very soon you will find
reason to be surprised about some of the relatively modest set of
its debts, partly through the bland, Superfluous or himself opposing
the same individual.

Also, the program is still basically all the way to the Marx-Lassalleschen
principles gemodelt, although these principles long ago as no
longer tenable or determining said.

What is the first in the introduction called "transformation of
capitalist private ownership of means of production (land, mines
and mines, raw materials, tools, machinery, transport) in social
ownership and the transformation of commodity production in socialism,
for and by the company-operated production ", it is generally made
out to such a claim without detail in the details of such a drastic
measure barely more than the value of a phrase claim - except that
it is the organization of the whole work of state routes, as has
already been established as a utopia or impossibility must be taken.

Let's go to the different points above, they are actually the same
far more political than the socialist nature and consistent with
the demands of political democracy.

In the first place it is being figured = = Lassalle as sharp stressed =
general call of the vote or vote = - a claim which indeed is why at
such place as seems superfluous, because once they are already partly
achieved, and secondly because they with one of the best known and
least contentious claims of political democracy collapses. Also to
be here again already highlighted the unreliability of this right,
and be reminded that the same is a double-edged sword, which is
unimpeded in its application as much as a = v = = = for the social
democracy could decide. As long as the current political, social and
religious function of the electoral masses of the overall vote may
not even be the true expression of popular will be, quite apart
from the fact that this common folk will not always meet the right
thing, but sometimes in the most opposites moved.

Do I need to but beating the only evidence known to the plebiscite
of the third Napoleon to remember what a few years later, however,
after the general hatred of the nation had to be loaded with epithets
and shame of it was being hunted.

Or to the proclamation of the sovereignty referendum in France in 1789,
during an entire century, only to continually abwogende and political
struggles between the different views and forms of government without
any positive result has had to follow!

If the workers according to the instructions of his employer,
according to those officials of his government, the Catholic
electorate blindly following the command of his priests or Kapla
true, or if the farmer who zujubelt of him by applying orator or
material resources to win understands when finally the interest of
the people or the voters themselves in the election is so low that
it is only by artificial incitement can be excited, I think you
have to admit that the result of such a choice is often very little
common sense and justice will taste.

The large mass with their whims or ignorance, their Denkfaulheit,
their dependence and physical dependence, their subservience to
come and practice or with their whole grobmaterialistischen way to
think and feel, is the big obstacle to the clock of human development,
which this evolution and often back the huge efforts of an enlightened
and well-being of humanity-loving minority, more or less frustrated.

The unlimited confidence of the Social Democrats in voting for the
general realization of their plans for the future should be at least
as very doubtful respectively.

Would this also not the case, and should it succeed, the working
masses so the reputation of its leaders to force that on the way
the voting rights of the general political power in their hands to
get a view that you would, as already noticed , by the ruling classes
long ago such a possibility by means of appropriate measures to
prevent or to a serious conflict have prepared.

So would once again just the way violent or exposure of the revolution,
whose outcome at least very doubtful, and which perhaps, or probably
the opposite of the Social Democrats wanted to would have.

The second set of demands = demands direct legislation by the people
=, but it is left entirely unclear how such a facility near the
imagining Perhaps they thought to Switzerland, where the acceptance
or rejection of important bills by direct popular vote is decided.

But in the little Switzerland is possible, it is not in big states
where such a plebiscite which would have major disadvantages.

Also one must not forget that this voting result of the stupidity
and rigors of the great masses is often very reactionary senses
fail and frustrate wohlthätigsten reforms.

In strongly Catholic countries or areas which would be the most serious
dangers for the Humanities and freedom of conscience, but the goods
on high the banner of social democracy are certainly to be expected.

The third point requires = People's Defense instead of standing
armies =.

To claim such a right in itself, so thöricht it is still below the
current constellation of political conditions.

For the two large, ready to attack the military forces being stuck
Germany would meet such a demand of his pure political suicide,
except that making such a profound alteration us for shorter or
longer time in a state of military weakness or inability to meet
needs us to welcome the spoils of our neighbors would make predators.

Concerning this point attached Program of the arbitration claim =
all international disputes through arbitration = concerns, it is this
demand that all sincere friends of peace, but for the present,
unfortunately, like so many other social democratic wishes » wasted.

"The fourth point calls with the removal of all legal restrictions on
police = = freedom of expression and the right of assembly = =.

In a free state or nation is likely to accelerate so much of
themselves to understand that its mention in the program as a whole
seems superfluous.

The fifth point = requires political and social equality of woman
with the man =, - a demand which can not social-democratic scholars
and writers often match, which can not be regarded as typical of
the socialist program can be.

The same is true of the sixth point, which so often advanced by all
political parties and demanded in America's long = separation of
the state of the Church = required.

Not less but also on the seventh point, which is secularism and the
school already widely introduced compulsory unpaid tuition = =
Public calls.

The eighth point demand for things long ago as the demands of liberal
legislation are recognized as free of charge = = justice, right of
appeal compensation innocently convicted, the abolition of the death
penalty, this is also the demand of the = law by judges elected
by the people =.

The example of America, where this body of corruption and bribery
has drawn large, had the authors of the program by the insertion
of this point will hold. = The unpaid medical assistance = (with
the inclusion of the dead, funeral), which requires the ninth point,
may have its advantages , but also the other major drawbacks.

Incidentally, by setting up the health insurance system this requirement
at least to a certain extent, already done enough.

The tenth point refers to the important issue of taxation = =, whose
details we know about the diverging opinions exist.

In general, cover the social demands on this point pretty much all
progress with those friends. These ten points includes a number of
claims, which specifically "= for the Protection of the working class
=" are.

It is necessary above all because the expression "working class"
taking miracles, but because, as already noted, the bitter fight
against the social democracy and all class antagonisms against the
so-called "state class" is addressed.

How can we ensure that the establishment of a special from the rest
of society separate "working class" unite under which, if the matter
goes to the bottom, but only the possession manual can be understood?
Why should these crafts besondre class? In a properly organized state
are = all = worker or should it be, whether with hand or foot
or head, or else somehow work, therefore, a contrast or
difference between "workers" in the socialist sense, and the remainder
nationals no longer be made can. Nevertheless, the Social Democratic
demands for his "work" a special "protection of the state" in the
following points: = At = first priority is the well-known claim
of the = = normal workday of eight hours - a claim which we know
only on international routes be successful and could be as long as
such an implementation is not in sight, as a means to be utopian.

In addition, the majority of the workers themselves from such a
provision does not want to know because it is a severe restriction
of personal freedom and a deterioration in their earnings behold,
gaping in opposition to this request is already covered by the
newspapers Thatsache known that Socialist Party in the printing
plants in Berlin and Frankfurt a.

M., a nine-to ten working there. - Further provisions relate to
prohibition of child and (unnecessary) night work, to a certain
period of rest and prohibiting the printing system, which demands
the more you can agree, when there none to carry out the same
socialist state requires.

The Second = an = agency listed relate partly to government monitoring
of industrial plants and commercial Hygieine, partly on establishing
a kind of Ministry of Labor.

The first demand is already employed by state factory inspectors
in most countries culture more or less done enough, while so-called
labor ministries of our knowledge until now only in France, change
in countries by industrial and agricultural authorities are replaced.

The = third = item requires legal equality of agricultural workers
and servants with the industrial workers. As a rule of law, without
exception, all citizens enjoy equal rights, it remains to this point
without further explanation is unclear. The = = fifth and final point,
which over the entire workers' insurance by the state requires
more or less true with the third of our own sozialreformatorischen
claims together, and remains only for us demanded compulsory insurance
for all citizens without exception, far behind the same back.

What, however, the further appended claim of "significant involvement
of workers in the administration" is concerned, is the author of
the program is not entirely clear what he wants to say.

"Managing" is something quite different and requires very andre
skills and knowledge, as the hammer swing, or lead the needle, and
the workers are men, therefore, inevitably can not do otherwise
than they Thätigkeit change, are better qualified staff to leave.

"I beg pardon!" Edward Henry apologized, dropping the document which
he had creased into a spill. There were no matches left on the table.

"I'll find you a match!"

"It's of no consequence," said Edward Henry, feeling in his pockets.
Having discovered therein a piece of paper he twisted it and rose to
put it to the gas.

"Could you slip round to your bank and meet me at the station in the
morning with the cash?" suggested Mr. Bryany.

"No, I couldn't," said Edward Henry.

"Well, then, what--?"

"Here, you'd better take this," the "Card," reborn, soothed his host
and, blowing out the spill which he had just ignited at the gas, he
offered it to Mr. Bryany.

"What?"

"This, man!"

Mr. Bryany, observing the peculiarity of the spill, seized it and
unrolled it--not without a certain agitation.

He stammered:

"Do you mean to say it's genuine?"

"You'd almost think so, wouldn't you?" said Edward Henry. He was
growing fond of this reply, and of the enigmatic, playful tone that he
had invented for it.

"But--"

"We may, as you say, look twice at a fiver," continued Edward Henry.
"But we're apt to be careless about hundred-pound notes in this
district. I daresay that's why I always carry one."

"But it's burnt!"

"Only just the edge. Not enough to harm it. If any bank in England
refuses it, return it to me and I'll give you a couple more in
exchange. Is that talking?"

"Well, I'm dashed!" Mr. Bryany attempted to rise, and then subsided
back into his chair. "I am simply and totally dashed!" He smiled
weakly, hysterically.

And in that instant Edward Henry felt all the sweetness of a complete
and luscious revenge.

He said commandingly:

"You must sign me a transfer. I'll dictate it!"

Then he jumped up.

"You're in a hurry?"

"I am. My wife is expecting me. You promised to find me a match."
Edward Henry waved the unlit cigarette as a reproach to Mr. Bryany's
imperfect hospitality.


IV


The clock of Bleakridge Church, still imperturbably shining in the
night, showed a quarter to one when he saw it again on his hurried and
guilty way home. The pavements were drying in the fresh night wind
and he had his overcoat buttoned up to the neck. He was absolutely
solitary in the long, muddy perspective of Trafalgar Road. He walked
because the last tram-car was already housed in its shed at the other
end of the world, and he walked quickly because his conscience drove
him onwards. And yet he dreaded to arrive, lest a wound in the child's
leg should have maliciously decided to fester in order to put him in
the wrong. He was now as apprehensive concerning that wound as Nellie
herself had been at tea-time.

But, in his mind, above the dark gulf of anxiety, there floated
brighter thoughts. Despite his fears and his remorse as a father, he
laughed aloud in the deserted street when he remembered Mr. Bryany's
visage of astonishment upon uncreasing the note. Indubitably he had
made a terrific and everlasting impression upon Mr. Bryany. He was
sending Mr. Bryany out of the Five Towns a different man. He had
taught Mr. Bryany a thing or two. To what brilliant use had he turned
the purely accidental possession of a hundred-pound note! One of his
finest inspirations--an inspiration worthy of the great days of
his youth! Yes, he had had his hour that evening, and it had been a
glorious one. Also, it had cost him a hundred pounds, and he did
not care; he would retire to bed with a net gain of two hundred and
forty-one pounds instead of three hundred and forty-one pounds--that
was all!

For he did not mean to take up the option. The ecstasy was cooled
now and he saw clearly that London and theatrical enterprises therein
would not be suited to his genius. In the Five Towns he was on his own
ground; he was a figure; he was sure of himself. In London he would be
a provincial, with the diffidence and the uncertainty of a provincial.
Nevertheless, London seemed to be summoning him from afar off, and he
dreamt agreeably of London as one dreams of the impossible East.

As soon as he opened the gate in the wall of his property he saw that
the drawing-room was illuminated and all the other front rooms in
darkness. Either his wife or his mother, then, was sitting up in
the drawing-room. He inserted a cautious latch-key into the door
and entered the silent home like a sinner. The dim light in the hall
gravely reproached him. All his movements were modest and restrained.
No noisy rattling of his stick now!

The drawing-room door was slightly ajar. He hesitated, and then,
nerving himself, pushed against it.

Nellie, with lowered head, was seated at a table, mending, the image
of tranquillity and soft resignation. A pile of children's garments
lay by her side, but the article in her busy hands appeared to be an
under-shirt of his own. None but she ever reinforced the buttons on
his linen. Such was her wifely rule, and he considered that there was
no sense in it. She was working by the light of a single lamp on the
table, the splendid chandelier being out of action. Her economy in the
use of electricity was incurable, and he considered that there was no
sense in that either.

She glanced up, with a guarded expression that might have meant
anything.

He said:

"Aren't you trying your eyes?"

And she replied:

"Oh, no!"

Then, plunging, he came to the point:

"Well, doctor been?"

She nodded.

"What does he say?"

"It's quite all right. He did nothing but cover up the place with a
bit of cyanide gauze."

Instantly, in his own esteem, he regained perfection as a father. Of
course the bite was nothing! Had he not said so from the first? Had he
not been quite sure throughout that the bite was nothing?

"Then why did you sit up?" he asked, and there was a faint righteous
challenge in his tone.

"I was anxious about you. I was afraid--"

"Didn't Stirling tell you I had some business?"

"I forget--"

"I told him to, anyhow.... Important business."

"It must have been," said Nellie, in an inscrutable voice.

She rose and gathered together her paraphernalia, and he saw that she
was wearing the damnable white apron. The close atmosphere of the
home enveloped and stifled him once more. How different was this
exasperating interior from the large jolly freedom of the Empire Music
Hall, and from the whisky, cigarettes and masculinity of that private
room at the Turk's Head!

"It was!" he repeated grimly and resentfully. "Very important! And
I'll tell you another thing. I shall probably have to go to London."

He said this just to startle her.

"It will do you all the good in the world," she replied angelically,
but unstartled. "It's just what you need!" And she gazed at him as
though his welfare and felicity were her sole preoccupation.

"I meant I might have to stop there quite a while," he insisted.

"If you ask me," she said, "I think it would do us all good."

So saying, she retired, having expressed no curiosity whatever as to
the nature of the very important business in London.

For a moment, left alone, he was at a loss. Then, snorting, he went to
the table and extinguished the lamp. He was now in darkness. The light
in the hall showed him the position of the door.

He snorted again. "Oh, very well then!" he muttered. "If that's it!...
I'm hanged if I don't go to London!... I'm hanged if I don't go to
London!"


CHAPTER III

WILKINS'S


I


The early adventures of Alderman Machin of Bursley at Wilkins's Hotel,
London, were so singular, and to him so refreshing, that they must be
recounted in some detail.

He went to London by the morning express from Knype, on the Monday
week after his visit to the music-hall. In the meantime he had had
some correspondence with Mr. Bryany, more poetic than precise, about
the option, and had informed Mr. Bryany that he would arrive in
London several days before the option expired. But he had not given
a definite date. The whole affair, indeed, was amusingly vague; and,
despite his assurances to his wife that the matter was momentous,
he did not regard his trip to London as a business trip at all, but
rather as a simple freakish change of air. The one certain item in the
whole situation was that he had in his pocket a quite considerable sum
of actual money, destined--he hoped, but was not sure--to take up the
option at the proper hour.

Nellie, impeccable to the last, accompanied him in the motor to Knype,
the main-line station. The drive, superficially pleasant, was in
reality very disconcerting to him. For nine days the household had
talked in apparent cheerfulness of father's visit to London, as
though it were an occasion for joy on father's behalf, tempered by
affectionate sorrow for his absence. The official theory was that all
was for the best in the best of all possible homes, and this theory
was admirably maintained. And yet everybody knew--even to Maisie--that
it was not so; everybody knew that the master and the mistress of
the home, calm and sweet as was their demeanour, were contending in
a terrific silent and mysterious altercation, which in some way was
connected with the visit to London.

So far as Edward Henry was concerned he had been hoping for some
decisive event--a tone, gesture, glance, pressure--during the drive to
Knype, which offered the last chance of a real concord. No such event
occurred. They conversed with the same false cordiality as had marked
their relations since the evening of the dog-bite. On that evening
Nellie had suddenly transformed herself into a distressingly perfect
angel, and not once had she descended from her high estate. At least
daily she had kissed him--what kisses! Kisses that were not kisses!
Tasteless mockeries, like non-alcoholic ale! He could have killed
her, but he could not put a finger on a fault in her marvellous wifely
behaviour; she would have died victorious.

So that his freakish excursion was not starting very auspiciously.
And, waiting with her for the train on the platform at Knype, he felt
this more and more. His old clerk, Penkethman, was there to receive
certain final instructions on Thrift Club matters, and the sweetness
of Nellie's attitude towards the ancient man, and the ancient man's
naïve pleasure therein, positively maddened Edward Henry. To such an
extent that he began to think: "Is she going to spoil my trip for me?"

Then Brindley came up. Brindley, too, was going to London. And
Nellie's saccharine assurances to Brindley that Edward Henry really
needed a change just about completed Edward Henry's desperation. Not
even the uproarious advent of two jolly wholesale grocers, Messieurs
Garvin & Quorrall, also going to London, could effectually lighten his
pessimism.

When the train steamed in, Edward Henry, in fear, postponed the
ultimate kiss as long as possible. He allowed Brindley to climb
before him into the second-class compartment, and purposely tarried
in finding change for the porter; and then he turned to Nellie and
stooped. She raised her white veil and raised the angelic face. They
kissed--the same false kiss--and she was withdrawing her lips ... But
suddenly she put them again to his for one second, with a hysterical,
clinging pressure. It was nothing. Nobody could have noticed it.
She herself pretended that she had not done it. Edward Henry had
to pretend not to notice it. But to him it was everything. She had
relented. She had surrendered. The sign had come from her. She wished
him to enjoy his visit to London.

He said to himself:

"Dashed if I don't write to her every day!"

He leaned out of the window as the train rolled away and waved and
smiled to her, not concealing his sentiments now; nor did she conceal
hers as she replied with exquisite pantomime to his signals. But if
the train had not been rapidly and infallibly separating them the
reconciliation could scarcely have been thus open. If for some reason
the train had backed into the station and ejected its passengers,
those two would have covered up their feelings again in an instant.
Such is human nature in the Five Towns.

When Edward Henry withdrew his head into the compartment Brindley and
Mr. Garvin, the latter standing at the corridor door, observed that
his spirits had shot up in the most astonishing manner, and in their
blindness they attributed the phenomenon to Edward Henry's delight in
a temporary freedom from domesticity.

Mr. Garvin had come from the neighbouring compartment, which was
first-class, to suggest a game at bridge. Messieurs Garvin & Quorrall
journeyed to London once a week and sometimes oftener, and, being
traders, they had special season-tickets. They travelled first-class
because their special season-tickets were first-class, Brindley
said that he didn't mind a game, but that he had not the slightest
intention of paying excess fare for the privilege. Mr. Garvin told him
to come along and trust in Messieurs Garvin & Quorrall. Edward Henry,
not nowadays an enthusiastic card-player, enthusiastically agreed to
join the hand, and announced that he did not care if he paid forty
excess fares. Whereupon Robert Brindley grumbled enviously that it was
"all very well for millionaires"!... They followed Mr. Garvin into
the first-class compartment, and it soon appeared that Messrs Garvin
& Quorrall did, in fact, own the train, and that the London and North
Western Railway was no more than their washpot.

"Bring us a cushion from somewhere, will ye?" said Mr. Quorrall,
casually, to a ticket-collector who entered.

And the resplendent official obeyed. The long cushion, rapt from
another compartment, was placed on the knees of the quartette, and the
game began. The ticket-collector examined the tickets of Brindley and
Edward Henry, and somehow failed to notice that they were of the wrong
colour. And at this proof of their influential greatness Messieurs
Garvin & Quorrall were both secretly proud.

The last rubber finished in the neighbourhood of Willesden, and Edward
Henry, having won eighteenpence halfpenny, was exuberantly
content, for Messrs Garvin, Quorrall and Brindley were all renowned
card-players. The cushion was thrown away and a fitful conversation
occupied the few remaining minutes of the journey.

"Where do you put up?" Brindley asked Edward Henry.

"Majestic," said Edward Henry. "Where do you?"

"Oh! Kingsway, I suppose."

The Majestic and the Kingsway were two of the half-dozen very large
and very mediocre hotels in London which, from causes which nobody,
and especially no American, has ever been able to discover, are
particularly affected by Midland provincials "on the jaunt!" Both had
an immense reputation in the Five Towns.

There was nothing new to say about the Majestic and the Kingsway, and
the talk flagged until Mr. Quorrall mentioned Seven Sachs. The
mighty Seven Sachs, in his world-famous play, "Overheard," had taken
precedence of all other topics in the Five Towns during the previous
week. He had crammed the theatre and half emptied the Empire Music
Hall for six nights; a wonderful feat. Incidentally, his fifteen
hundredth appearance in "Overheard" had taken place in the Five Towns,
and the Five Towns had found in this fact a peculiar satisfaction, as
though some deep merit had thereby been acquired or rewarded. Seven
Sachs's tour was now closed, and on the Sunday he had gone to London,
_en route_ for America.

"I heard _he_ stops at Wilkins's," said Mr. Garvin.

"Wilkins's your grandmother!" Brindley essayed to crush Mr. Garvin.

"I don't say he _does_ stop at Wilkins's," said Mr. Garvin, an
individual not easy to crush; "I only say I heard as he did."

"They wouldn't have him!" Brindley insisted firmly.

Mr. Quorrall at any rate seemed tacitly to agree with Brindley. The
august name of Wilkins's was in its essence so exclusive that vast
numbers of fairly canny provincials had never heard of it. Ask ten
well-informed provincials which is the first hotel in London and
nine of them would certainly reply, the Grand Babylon. Not that even
wealthy provincials from the industrial districts are in the habit of
staying at the Grand Babylon! No! Edward Henry, for example, had
never stayed at the Grand Babylon, no more than he had ever bought a
first-class ticket on a railroad. The idea of doing so had scarcely
occurred to him. There are certain ways of extravagant smartness which
are not considered to be good form among solid wealthy provincials.
Why travel first-class (they argue) when second is just as good and no
one can tell the difference once you get out of the train? Why ape
the tricks of another stratum of society? They like to read about the
dinner-parties and supper-parties at the Grand Babylon; but they are
not emulous and they do not imitate. At their most adventurous they
would lunch or dine in the neutral region of the grill-room at the
Grand Babylon. As for Wilkins's, in Devonshire Square, which is
infinitely better known among princes than in the Five Towns, and
whose name is affectionately pronounced with a "V" by half the
monarchs of Europe, few industrial provincials had ever seen it.
The class which is the backbone of England left it serenely alone to
royalty and the aristocratic parasites of royalty.

"I don't see why they shouldn't have him," said Edward Henry, as he
lifted a challenging nose in the air.

"Perhaps you don't, Alderman!" said Brindley.

"_I_ wouldn't mind going to Wilkins's," Edward Henry persisted.

"I'd like to see you," said Brindley, with curt scorn.

"Well," said Edward Henry, "I'll bet you a fiver I do." Had he not
won eighteenpence halfpenny, and was he not securely at peace with his
wife?

"I don't bet fivers," said the cautious Brindley. "But I'll bet you
half-a-crown."

"Done!" said Edward Henry.

"When will you go?"

"Either to-day or to-morrow. I must go to the Majestic first, because
I've ordered a room and so on."

"Ha!" hurtled Brindley, as if to insinuate that Edward Henry was
seeking to escape from the consequences of his boast.

And yet he ought to have known Edward Henry. He did know Edward Henry.
And he hoped to lose his half-crown. On his face and on the faces of
the other two was the cheerful admission that tales of the doings of
Alderman Machin, the great local card, at Wilkins's--if he succeeded
in getting in--would be cheap at half-a-crown.

Porters cried out "Euston!"


II


It was rather late in the afternoon when Edward Henry arrived in front
of the façade of Wilkins's. He came in a taxi-cab, and though the
distance from the Majestic to Wilkins's is not more than a couple of
miles, and he had had nothing else to preoccupy him after lunch, he
had spent some three hours in the business of transferring himself
from the portals of the one hotel to the portals of the other. A
number of circumstances such as violence, conquest, war, inheritance,
purchase, gift, and Feudal Lehnsgüterwesen etc. have made it in
time then, that a minority by the possession of land to Beherrscherin
the whole of humanity has become, until finally everything was
distributed so that no place or space for the belated remained,
and that if he does not even born by chance as the owner is in
the air would have stuck if he does not immediately have the right
of establishment by buying would be that of his nature which he
lent manpower, which are in possession of the land and labor resources
are owned giebt womb.

The tremendous power of habit is so placed that the vast majority of
people in this state as something natural or obvious swallow, while the
one who causes the same attention, soon finds that the private ownership
of land is not by nature but by violence and usurpation also comes
from this natural law was in its earliest antiquity almost everywhere
more or less recognized, such as Palestine, Greece, Italy, Germania,
Gaul, India, China, Japan, Peru, etc. Even in the oldest
historical documents of our sex, we find the idea of sharing the
floor extremely well, so named in the Bible, which many pointed
sayings relating to clarity nothing to be desired. Although the
ancient Hebrews in the land owned by family, but every fifty years
there was a redistribution of the land instead. Just saw the Chinese
thinker Laotse = = in the possession of the Earth from space to all
people God entrusted Holy Well. Accordingly, the land ownership
rights in China, only a right of use and only as such transferability,
while the property itself by the state and represented a whole remained
in theory still to this day remains. Only as a result of a long
series of Gewaltmassregeln and usurpation, the individual appropriation
of land in China are enforced.

Similarly, it was in Japan, where until the Mongol invaders by force,
the feudal system introduced.

The Indians knew before the English conquest, neither the law of the
sale of land ownership, nor the will. Backhaus = = After (cited
above), it seems highly probable if not certain that land was in the
beginning of the story throughout the common possession of the
peoples have been. Also, the ancient philosophers to explain. =
= Aristotle declares that the land must be necessary commons, and
= = Plato demands that every citizen has an equal or equally large
piece of land productive as indivisible and inalienable to use will
pass.

Even Rome and Greece had initially corresponding arable constitutions.
In Sparta held the prohibition of land sales and Testament long
time the equality of possession upright, and in Athens subdued = =
Solon and his successor, the individual's property at all severe
restrictions, probably as an initial Reminiscenzen communism, also
in Rome, the individual property to land only after the joint has
emerged.

Initially the community property was later owned by individual
families and gender, which the latter in relation to the possession
somehow only one person formed.

Only with the Law of the twelve panels and with the introduction of the
rights of sale and Testament won the individual property of the
overweight on the common.

The large property gradually devoured the small, and there were
conditions that we have now in England to have the opportunity to
observe.

Certainly, it is also that according to old Germanic = = Right the
largest and most essential part of the cultivated soil, or the
so-called Common Foreign Mark Mark owned by the cooperatives was
during the so-called internal market to individuals only in the
capacity as "administrator" belonged. »A utilization and exploitation
of land and the soil strength by individuals for purposes of benefit
exclusively suited to the old German was completely unknown."

And this land law and the resulting bethätigten common sense, the old
Germanic tribes owe their freedom and their inexhaustible power. Only
the demonic-looking spirit of Roman law, with its excessive emphasis
on personal possessions and property rights, it was possible even
in the old Germania a private property on the ground to watch.

It was the Nessushemd what the dying giants Roma to the Germanic
maliciously bequeathed. Urgesund But so were the ancient Germanic
legal institutions that remains of the community property under
various names until today in different German regions and towns
have received. The magazine "Outdoor", the organ of the German Society
for land ownership reform, has been able to prove that in Germany more
than a hundred villages exist, which are in happy possession of
common ownership of land remained. Even more, this institution has
remained a major part of Russia, and in some villages of Serbia and
Croatia, also in many Asian hordes in the form of the so-called Russian
"Mir", where the country collectively by all community members built
and owned the harvest is distributed evenly. In Switzerland there
is a remnant of this ancient institution in the form of so-called
"Allmend". Across Africa, there Letourneau = = [4], the individualization
and mobilization, of land ownership only exceptionally. It is also with
the indigenous Amerikanertum, where the hunting and fishing grounds
are not the individual, but the tribe or the Tribus belong.

In Java, there is still common throughout the soil and a constitution,
which is very those already mentioned in the Russian village system
"Mir" is approaching. In the ancient Peruvians there after
Prescott = = [5] conducted a systematic, top-led communism, which
means that there is no poverty and no shortage existed, and that for
the elderly, the weak, the sick or the accident was concerned enough
to ensure etc. If we apply this experience to the prehistory of
man, so one is probably forced to assume that, as the author in his
writing about the golden age of detail, the wild hordes of primitive
times, the personal property law or as little in as limited way knew
or respected, like the savages of the present - and not just for
hunters and fishermen, in which a firm ownership of land was hardly
possible, but also for farmers. Only the weapons and tools, which is
the individual himself had made, were considered his personal property,
although it = = Plutarch even the old Lacedämoniern was allowed
to join the horses, dogs and tools to serve their neighbors if
they did not use made them.

The return to the old state and the return of the natural and all
litigation-related possession of land is to the whole way - even
apart from any social or legal reasons, naturally - such an economic
or state economic necessity that them in the long run, despite all
the reluctance even can not be circumvented.

Because of the huge growth of population in European countries giebt
andres is no way to prepare the ground to its ultimate profitability
exploit. It can and must, therefore the individual owner of a
property not be left, whether and to what extent he wants to make
the same productive or not, but it must be the ground in the
interest of the whole everything abgerungen be what it may be
some abgerungen. This can only be done by the principles of
scientific agriculture-based big business, and the fact that no place
on earth according to its location and composition remains unused,
while the private operation of this very arbitrary and often
inefficient or process can proceed.

Nowhere does this become more obvious than in England, where
we know the whole, for certain arable land with a population of
about 35 million in the hands of just 14-15000 owners is, what it
- typically unemployed and without any own effort - an annual pension
of not less than 4000 million draw from the huge cargo complex of
the Duke of Sutherland, for example, (11 Mill Acker) are only about
23000 under arable cultivation, and the calculated Gesamterträgnis
are on average = a = per Mark Acker, while the same in different
parts of the forty-fold increase might be.

But the immensely rich English Landlords prefer kulturfähigern from
the ground, on which thousands of diligent people could eat, sheep
or wildlife or Trift racecourses or stately gardens, etc., and to
take no decency, the settlers or residents to ruthlessly eliminate
this purpose; and similar is happening, albeit not in the same high
levels as in England, everywhere.

Thus Germany's ten largest landowners, one ninth of the total cultivated
land area of Germany, while France as regards the distribution
of land that is far better. Even in America, when abundance of
land available, making the sad consequences of private land ownership
in such a manner alleged that the letters of the famous American
artist George H. = = on Progress and Poverty, which held that as a
major source of social evil is shown, millions of readers could find.

It was one of the most unfair and yet thörichtesten acts or omissions
of the American administration that it is not what you would have
been a cinch, the vast land area, allowing her to bid stood up for
national ownership of said parcel and leased to the private sector,
but same part of monopolists and private companies away, sometimes
at fire-sale prices in private wegwarf, partly to the arbitrary
seizure of property left.

An exception has only one with the big national park in the state
of Colorado made what is almost as big as the Kingdom of Saxony -
but not to national economic, but for purposes of private entertainment
for the rich and wealthy.

Had it with the whole land shall, so now have a great, not too
exhausting National Wealth of the American people to follow, while
this vast treasure now only serves the private benefit. Most
striking is unfair and such a private benefit, where by simple
multiplication of the population of the value of landed property
to the often unmeasured increases, such as including in the middle
and close to growing cities, where many land lines, which previously
had almost no value, within a short time to maintain gold fields
for their owners are - without any mention Zuthun or merit of the
latter, only through the diligence and the Thätigkeit the whole,
which, nevertheless, this result of their hard work without any
deduction for the individual private owners in the womb raises.

What Now the manner of transition from the private possession of
land in those of the state or the whole is concerned, this is a secondary
question, which of the various defenders of the land ownership
reform in different ways answered.

It is obvious that from a non-violent appropriation of the speech can
be, but only by a detachment of the pension or the soil itself against
massive and observed assessment of compensation, because, though,
as demonstrated, many and perhaps the most important possession of
title to land not legally purchase, but from the times of violence
herschreiben, it may not yet because, after so long investigations
into the legality of the working titles are no longer employed, and
the offspring is not for the sins of the forefathers held responsible
can be, no one now in its existing legal rights aggrieved or
disadvantaged.

The broadest way would be a surrender with the prior estimate - with
smaller equipment or property after they paid full value, but a very
large degree of reduction of the price would have to be subjected,
- either with or against a bar in the form of bonds issued by state
pension.

However, this would be great for the beginning of funds needed, but
they would not constitute serious obstacle when adopting my second
proposal to restrict the inheritance of the entire land ownership,
or at least the biggest part of it in the course of one or a few
human lives to the government would fall.

This would then increase by the population and rational management of
the land in large farm on and on rising land values, which
increase under all circumstances, as elaborated by the entirety,
including all or the state's population would have. The supporters
of the said land ownership reform, which is in Germany to a special
"covenant" with a number of branch associations zusammengethan and
hold a special institution in Berlin, appearing under the title
"free range" are, it seems that in their majority consider to be
that "the transfer of land , bez. the basic pension, from the hands
of individual into the hands of the whole, "which according to
statute the purpose of their efforts is, sufficient to accommodate,
if not directly, but indirectly as a complete solution to the social
issue.

They expect them by eliminating the mortgage sector in the last line,
the elimination of the power of private capital in land, as well
as those of mobile capital at all, by the vast holdings of private
land for the cause of all social and economic tribulations and the
basis for all explain economic bondage.

Notably this will after Backhaus = = (aa Above) the "terribly angry
Schrecknis« Daemon = = Interest, which is still terrible, as the demon
of war, no peace because he knows and is continuously increasing, a
certain amount of grip offered.

The interest has the whole society into one big war camp turns to what
he daily human sacrifice to be performed without paying.

Indeed, under the rule of the private land monopoly and its effects
is the overwhelming majority of each people the big landlords and
big capitalists in the same way interest-bearing has become, as it
did the young people of Rome and the subjugated peoples of the Roman
Latifundienbesitzern and large capitalists were interest-bearing.

If the author merely in the sense of previously owned by the Baden school
reformers would have to talk so he could stop here, because this school,
as I said, have reason to believe that in order to achieve their
aspirations of a final elimination of social deprivation to be
expected.

Since he does this expectation is not to divide the interview, he
is forced, in the deeper meaning of his compensation in the means
by which the individual's struggle for existence is to exist, to
discuss its second proposal, relating to the restriction, bezw.

Elimination of inheritance or the Erbkapitalismus them. author is
well aware that with this proposal he somehow stands in a Wespennest
critical and hostile to any kind must lie in wait. For where the
personal interest of individuals coming into the game, since each has
a quiet and fair consideration to an end. The right to his children
and she can not leave what he himself has purchased, nobody wants
to take leave, too, has the individual is absolutely right, as long
as they are on the floor of the existing social conditions do. But
it is quite different, when the social reformer anticipating
conditions which are quite different nature and must be. Indeed, as
political revolutions are not made with rose water, they may also
social reforms of the successful impact with half or inadequate
measures are made. BTW I'm in support of my proposal, above all, claim
that the estate tax has long regarded as one of the most equitable
and least oppressive recognized and has been applied, and that the
same just a larger extent, especially in the indirect succession,
to give needed to my suggestions for more and more to get near.

Also, there are supporters of such an idea of taxation in the
scholarly world as unscholarly from year to year, and there is no
shortage of reputable, even conservative constitutional law teachers,
who in principle favor, as Brinz = = = = Röscher, Marlo = =,
Umpfenbach = = = = Schäffler, Pfizer = = = = Bluntschli, Baron = =
= = Hallier, etc.

The fact that the actual socialists agree, is almost by itself
already the Basel International Workers' Congress of 1869 has abolished
private land ownership and succession in its program, and the French
Socialists collectivist Congress from 1880 was the last point of
his program "the abolition of inheritance for relatives and each page
direct succession of more than 20000 Franks' notes. Also the program
of the English radicals completely and fully accepted the two claims.
Among the newer writers radical direction has named = = Max Nordau
in his famous book on the conventional lies of the culture of
humanity with sweeping grounds on the ground by this opinion In my
opinion, such a reform of inheritance or a restriction, resp. =
Erbkapitalismus abolition of a simple demand of social justice =. Because
no one will claim it as this view may be that, among people who,
although with different characteristics, but with the same right
to existence in the world, a certain extent with the Breilöffel,
the other with a hungry mouth born Lollipops is.

Nobody, it will be a manifestation of natural justice may consider,
if one already in the cradle on millions of rolls or a large part
of the ground and soil, which should include all, at home, without
being the least personal it has merit, while the other, as the Son
of man, do not know where his head should lie down, to make the
effort and expense of his miserable existence to rest.

You remember the Caprice that rich Englishman, what his whole big
asset to him personally a very strange lady bequeathed, just because
he liked its beautiful nose had found, and similar examples of
a totally senseless unbedürftige inheritance of heirs. Consider the
legacies of the dead hand or to the church, which only harm the
public used to the ugly Erbschleicherei to the numerous hereditary,
often the deepest split of whole families and bring about the ugly
drives of human nature feed, to the disadvantages of Fideikommisse
to the inheritance maintained constant by huge private assets, which
a state within a state, a financial power within the state power
which, to the inheritance of very distant sidelines, their relatives
the deceased never seen or knew, etc.

The so-called = = Testament or free right to dispose of the legacy
is by no outflow of natural justice, but an invention of later
times, probably of Roman origin, such as it was in the old Germany
entirely unknown.

The oldest stage of the property was much more like the excellent
investigations of Laboulaye = = = and = Laveleye about the origins
of property concepts have the common property = =. Only the Roman
law, with its excessive, above-mentioned emphasis on individualism
and personal possessions and property rights made the former state
of things to an end and drove the latter in the sense of personal
selfishness at the top - a relationship in which we still unfortunately
difficult to have diseased.

Today, as = = Lavelaye says, is the property of his former social character
completely lost. Completely different from what it was in the beginning,
it has nothing in common more in itself. Privileged to fessellos
without backing or obligation, it seems, without regard to the interests
of the whole, no other purpose than the well being of the individual
to pursue, etc.

"The right of ownership," says = = Laboulaye in his award-winning
script about the history of this right, " is a creation of society ...
Every time the company is changing a bit, it is their right and no
one can be opposed in the name of an earlier right in rebellion,
because before her and after her there is nothing. In it rests the
only source and origin of the law. "Individuals may be acquired
or inherited deswillen not to have any gift, because its
acquisition is not purely personal, but is only possible in society
and by their participation.

One of the glaring examples of this type is the already mentioned
enormous value of the land inside and near great in the developing
cities, which the individual owners each own merit without millions
in the womb raises and the totality of the enormous increase Rents
of no benefit, but only brings harm.

It is a condition of formal wage slavery of non-haves against the haves,
which by law would have been a dam should be opposed. Of course it
could be a radical social measure, such as restriction of inheritance,
not suddenly or all at once, but only gradually and without too
large or too sudden insult to private interests in life are created.

But it is precisely in this way is a gradual introduction of growing
is a main advantage of the proposal, with daily practice and experience
of the theory at any time to come Hülfe or under the arms can take
place.

"Shall I prepare your bath, sir?" asked Joseph, stationed in a supple
attitude by the side of the bed.

Edward Henry was visited by an idea.

"Have you had yours?" he demanded like a pistol-shot.

Edward Henry saw that Sir Nicholas had never asked that particular
question.

"No, sir."

"Not had your bath, man! What on earth do you mean by it? Go and have
your bath at once!"

A faint sycophantic smile lightened the amazed features of Joseph. And
Edward Henry thought: "It's astonishing, all the same, the way they
can read their masters. This chap has seen already that I'm a card.
And yet how?"

"Yes, sir," said Joseph.

"Have your bath in the bathroom here. And be sure to leave everything
in order for me."

"Yes, sir."

As soon as Joseph had gone Edward Henry jumped out of bed and
listened. He heard the discreet Joseph respectfully push the bolt of
the bathroom door. Then he crept with noiseless rapidity to the small
bedroom and was aware therein of a lack of order and of ventilation.
The rich and distinguished overcoat was hanging on the brass knob at
the foot of the bed. He seized it, and, scrutinizing the loop, read in
yellow letters: "_Quayther & Cuthering_, 47 _Vigo Street, W_." He
knew that Quayther & Cuthering must be the tailors of Sir Nicholas
Winkworth, and hence first-class.

Hoping for the best, and putting his trust in the general decency of
human nature, he did not trouble himself with the problem: was the
overcoat a gift or an appropriation? But he preferred to assume the
generosity of Sir Nicholas rather than the dishonesty of Joseph.

Repassing the bathroom door he knocked loudly on its glass.

"Don't be all day!" he cried. He was in a hurry now.

An hour later he said to Joseph:

"I'm going down to Quayther & Cuthering's."

"Yes, sir," said Joseph, obviously much reassured.

"Nincompoop!" Edward Henry exclaimed secretly. "The fool thinks better
of me because my tailors are first-class."

But Edward Henry had failed to notice that he himself was thinking
better of himself because he had adopted first-class tailors.

Beneath the main door of his suite, as he went forth, he found a
business card of the West End Electric Brougham Supply Agency. And
downstairs, solely to impress his individuality on the hall-porter, he
showed the card to that vizier with the casual question:

"These people any good?"

"An excellent firm, sir."

"What do they charge?"

"By the week, sir?"

He hesitated. "Yes, by the week."

"Twenty guineas, sir."

"Well, you might telephone for one. Can you get it at once?"

"Certainly, sir."

The vizier turned towards the telephone in his lair.

"I say--" said Edward Henry.

"Sir?"

"I suppose one will be enough?"

"Well, sir, as a rule, yes," said the vizier, calmly. "Sometimes I get
a couple for one family, sir."

Though he had started jocularly, Edward Henry finished by blenching.
"I think one will do ... I may possibly send for my own car."

He drove to Quayther & Cuthering's in his electric brougham and there
dropped casually the name of Winkworth. He explained humorously his
singular misadventure of the _Minnetonka_, and was very successful
therewith--so successful, indeed, that he actually began to believe in
the reality of the adventure himself, and had an irrational impulse
to dispatch a wireless message to his bewildered valet on board the
_Minnetonka_.

Subsequently he paid other fruitful visits in the neighbourhood, and
at about half-past eleven the fruit was arriving at Wilkins's in
the shape of many parcels and boxes, comprising diverse items in
the equipment of a man-about-town, such as tie-clips and Innovation
trunks.

Returning late to Wilkins's for lunch he marched jauntily into the
large brilliant restaurant and commenced an adequate repast. Of course
he was still wearing his mediocre lounge-suit (his sole suit for
another two days), but somehow the consciousness that Quayther &
Cuthering were cutting out wondrous garments for him in Vigo
Street stiffened his shoulders and gave a mysterious style to that
lounge-suit.

At lunch he made one mistake and enjoyed one very remarkable piece of
luck.

The mistake was to order an artichoke. He did not know how to eat an
artichoke. He had never tried to eat an artichoke, and his first essay
in this difficult and complex craft was a sad fiasco. It would not
have mattered if, at the table next to his own, there had not been
two obviously experienced women, one ill-dressed, with a red hat, the
other well-dressed, with a blue hat; one middle-aged, the other much
younger; but both very observant. And even so, it would scarcely have
mattered had not the younger woman been so slim, pretty and alluring.
While tolerably careless of the opinion of the red-hatted, plain woman
of middle-age, he desired the unqualified approval of the delightful
young thing in the blue hat. They certainly interested themselves in
his manoeuvres with the artichoke, and their amusement was imperfectly
concealed. He forgave the blue hat, but considered that the red hat
ought to have known better. They could not be princesses, nor
even titled aristocrats. He supposed them to belong to some
baccarat-playing county family.

The piece of luck consisted in the passage down the restaurant of the
Countess of Chell, who had been lunching there with a party, and whom
he had known locally in more gusty days. The Countess bowed stiffly
to the red hat, and the red hat responded with eager fulsomeness. It
seemed to be here as it no longer was in the Five Towns; everybody
knew everybody! The red hat and the blue might be titled, after all,
he thought. Then, by sheer accident, the Countess caught sight of
himself and stopped dead, bringing her escort to a standstill behind
her. Edward Henry blushed and rose.

"Is it _you_, Mr. Machin?" murmured the still lovely creature warmly.

They shook hands. Never had social pleasure so thrilled him. The
conversation was short. He did not presume on the past. He knew that
here he was not on his own ashpit, as they say in the Five Towns. The
Countess and her escort went forward. Edward Henry sat down again.

He gave the red and the blue hats one calm glance, which they failed
to withstand. The affair of the artichoke was for ever wiped out.

After lunch he went forth again in his electric brougham. The weather
had cleared. The opulent streets were full of pride and sunshine.
And as he penetrated into one shop after another, receiving kowtows,
obeisances, curtsies, homage, surrender, resignation, submission, he
gradually comprehended that it takes all sorts to make a world, and
that those who are called to greatness must accept with dignity the
ceremonials inseparable from greatness. And the world had never seemed
to him so fine, nor any adventure so diverting and uplifting as this
adventure.

When he returned to his suite his private corridor was piled up with a
numerous and excessively attractive assortment of parcels. Joseph
took his overcoat and hat and a new umbrella and placed an easy-chair
conveniently for him in the drawing-room.

"Get my bill," he said shortly to Joseph as he sank into the gilded
fauteuil.

"Yes, sir."

One advantage of a valet, he discovered, is that you can order him
to do things which to do yourself would more than exhaust your moral
courage.

The black-calved gentleman-in-waiting brought the bill. It lay on a
salver and was folded, conceivably so as to break the shock of it to
the recipient.

Edward Henry took it.

"Wait a minute," he said.

He read on the bill: "Apartments, £8. Dinner, £1, 2s. 0d. Breakfast,
6s. 6d. Lunch, 18s. Half Chablis, 6s. 6d. Valet's board, 10s.
Tooth-brush, 2s. 6d."

"That's a bit thick, half-a-crown for that tooth-brush!" he said to
himself. "However--"

The next instant he blenched once more.

"Gosh!" he privately exclaimed as he read: "Paid driver of taxi-cab,
£2, 3s. 6d."

He had forgotten the taxi. But he admired the _sang-froid_ of
Wilkins's, which paid such trifles as a matter of course, without
deigning to disturb a guest by an inquiry. Wilkins's rose again in his
esteem.

The total of the bill exceeded thirteen pounds.

"All right," he said to the gentleman-in-waiting.

"Are you leaving to-day, sir?" the being permitted himself to ask.

"Of course I'm not leaving to-day! Haven't I hired an electric
brougham for a week?" Edward Henry burst out. "But I suppose I'm
entitled to know how much I'm spending!"

The gentleman-in-waiting humbly bowed and departed.

Alone in the splendid chamber Edward Henry drew out a swollen
pocket-book and examined its crisp, crinkly contents, which made a
beauteous and a reassuring sight.

"Pooh!" he muttered.

He reckoned he would be living at the rate of about fifteen pounds a
day, or five thousand five hundred a year. (He did not count the
cost of his purchases, because they were in the nature of a capital
expenditure.)

"Cheap!" he muttered. "For once I'm about living up to my income!"

The sensation was exquisite in its novelty.

He ordered tea, and afterwards, feeling sleepy, he went fast asleep.

He awoke to the ringing of the telephone-bell. It was quite dark. The
telephone-bell continued to ring.

"Joseph!" he called.

The valet entered.

"What time is it?"

"After ten o'clock, sir."

"The deuce it is!"

He had slept over four hours!

"Well, answer that confounded telephone."

Joseph obeyed.

"It's a Mr. Bryany, sir, if I catch the name right," said Joseph.

Bryany! For twenty-four hours he had scarcely thought of Bryany or the
option either.

"Bring the telephone here," said Edward Henry.

The cord would just reach to his chair.

"Hello! Bryany! Is that you?" cried Edward Henry, gaily.

And then he heard the weakened voice of Mr. Bryany in his ear:

"How d'ye do, Mr. Machin? I've been after you for the better part of
two days, and now I find you're staying in the same hotel as Mr. Sachs
and me!"

"Oh!" said Edward Henry.

He understood now why, on the previous day, the dandy introducing him
to his suite had smiled a welcome at the name of Alderman Machin,
and why Joseph had accepted so naturally the command to take a bath.
Bryany had been talking. Bryany had been recounting his exploits as a
card.

The voice of Bryany in his ear continued:

"Look here! I've got Miss Euclid here and some friends of hers. Of
course she wants to see you at once. Can you come down?"

"Er--" He hesitated.

He could not come down. He would have no evening wear till the next
day but one.

Said the voice of Bryany:

"What?"

"I can't," said Edward Henry. "I'm not very well. But listen. All of
you come up to my rooms here and have supper, will you? Suite 48."

"I'll ask the lady," said the voice of Bryany, altered now, and a few
seconds later: "We're coming."

"Joseph," Edward Henry gave orders rapidly, as he took off his coat
and removed the pocket-book from it. "I'm ill, you understand. Anyhow,
not well. Take this," handing him the coat, "and bring me the new
dressing-gown out of that green cardboard box from Rollet's--I think
it is. And then get the supper menu. I'm very hungry. I've had no
dinner."

Within sixty seconds he sat in state, wearing a grandiose yellow
dressing-gown. The change was accomplished just in time. Mr.. Bryany
entered, and not only Mr.. Bryany but Mr.. Seven Sachs, and not only
these, but the lady who had worn a red hat at lunch.

"Miss Rose Euclid," said Mr.. Bryany, puffing and bending.


CHAPTER IV

ENTRY INTO THE THEATRICAL WORLD


I


Once, on a short visit to London, Edward Henry had paid half-a-crown
to be let into a certain enclosure with a very low ceiling. This
enclosure was already crowded with some three hundred people, sitting
and standing. Edward Henry had stood in the only unoccupied spot he
could find, behind a pillar. When he had made himself as comfortable
as possible by turning up his collar against the sharp winds that
continually entered from the street, he had peered forward, and seen
in front of his enclosure another and larger enclosure also crowded
with people, but more expensive people. After a blank interval of
thirty minutes a band had begun to play at an incredible distance in
front of him, extinguishing the noises of traffic in the street. After
another interval an oblong space rather further off even than the band
suddenly grew bright, and Edward Henry, by curving his neck first
to one side of the pillar and then to the other, had had tantalizing
glimpses of the interior of a doll's drawing-room and of male and
female dolls therein.

He could only see, even partially, the inferior half of the
drawing-room--a little higher than the heads of the dolls--because the
rest was cut off from his vision by the lowness of his own ceiling.

The dolls were talking, but he could not catch clearly what they said,
save at the rare moments when an omnibus or a van did not happen to be
thundering down the street behind him. Then one special doll had come
exquisitely into the drawing-room, and at the sight of her the five
hundred people in front of him, and numbers of other people perched
hidden beyond his ceiling, had clapped fervently and even cried aloud
in their excitement. And he, too, had clapped fervently, and had
muttered "Bravo!" This special doll was a marvel of touching and
persuasive grace, with a voice--when Edward Henry could hear it--that
melted the spine. This special doll had every elegance and seemed to
be in the highest pride of youth.

At the close of the affair, as this special doll sank into the embrace
of a male doll from whom she had been unjustly separated, and then
straightened herself, deliciously and confidently smiling, to take the
tremendous applause of Edward Henry and the rest, Edward Henry thought
that he had never assisted at a triumph so genuine and so inspiring.

Oblivious of the pain in his neck, and of the choking, foul atmosphere
of the enclosure, accurately described as the Pit, he had gone forth
into the street with a subconscious notion in his head that the
special doll was more than human, was half divine. And he had said
afterwards, with immense satisfaction, at Bursley: "Yes, I saw Rose
Euclid in 'Flower of the Heart.'"

He had never set eyes on her since.

And now, on this day at Wilkins's, he had seen in the restaurant, and
he saw again before him in his private parlour, a faded and stoutish
woman, negligently if expensively dressed, with a fatigued, nervous,
watery glance, an unnatural, pale-violet complexion, a wrinkled skin
and dyed hair; a woman of whom it might be said that she had escaped
grandmotherhood, if indeed she had escaped it, by mere luck--and he
was point-blank commanded to believe that she and Rose Euclid were the
same person.

It was one of the most shattering shocks of all his career,
which nevertheless had not been untumultuous. And within his
dressing-gown--which nobody remarked upon--he was busy picking up and
piecing together, as quickly as he could, the shivered fragments of
his ideas.

He literally did not recognize Rose Euclid. True, fifteen years had
passed since the night in the pit! And he himself was fifteen years
older. But in his mind he had never pictured any change in Rose
Euclid. True, he had been familiar with the enormous renown of
Rose Euclid as far back as he could remember taking any interest in
theatrical advertisements! But he had not permitted her to reach an
age of more than about thirty-one or two. Whereas he now perceived
that even the exquisite doll in paradise that he had gloated over from
his pit must have been quite thirty-five--then....

Well, he scornfully pitied Rose Euclid! He blamed her for not having
accomplished the miracle of eternal youth. He actually considered that
she had cheated him. "Is this all? What a swindle!" he thought, as he
was piecing together the shivered fragments of his ideas into a new
pattern. He had felt much the same as a boy, at Bursley Annual Wakes
once, on entering a booth which promised horrors and did not supply
them. He had been "done" all these years....

Reluctantly he admitted that Rose Euclid could not help her age. But,
at any rate, she ought to have grown older beautifully, with charming
dignity and vivacity--in fact, she ought to have contrived to be old
and young simultaneously. Or, in the alternative, she ought to have
modestly retired into the country and lived on her memories and such
money as she had not squandered. She had no right to be abroad.

At worst, she ought to have _looked_ famous. And, because her name and
fame and photographs as an emotional actress had been continually in
the newspapers, therefore she ought to have been refined, delicate,
distinguished and full of witty and gracious small-talk. That she had
played the heroine of "Flower of the Heart" four hundred times, and
the heroine of "The Grenadier" four hundred and fifty times, and the
heroine of "The Wife's Ordeal" nearly five hundred times, made it
incumbent upon her, in Edward Henry's subconscious opinion, to possess
all the talents of a woman of the world and all the virgin freshness
of a girl. Which shows how cruelly stupid Edward Henry was in
comparison with the enlightened rest of us.

Why (he protested secretly), she was even tongue-tied!

"Glad to meet you, Mr. Machin," she said awkwardly, in a weak voice,
with a peculiar gesture as she shook hands. Then, a mechanical,
nervous giggle; and then silence!

"Happy to make your acquaintance, sir," said Mr. Seven Sachs, and the
arch-famous American actor-author also lapsed into silence. But the
silence of Mr. Seven Sachs was different from Rose Euclid's. He
was not shy. A dark and handsome, tranquil, youngish man, with
a redoubtable square chin, delicately rounded at the corners, he
strikingly resembled his own figure on the stage; and moreover, he
seemed to regard silence as a natural and proper condition. He simply
stood, in a graceful posture, with his muscles at ease, and waited.
Mr. Bryany, behind, seemed to be reduced in stature, and to have
become apologetic for himself in the presence of greatness.

Still, Mr. Bryany did say something.

Said Mr. Bryany:

"Sorry to hear you've been seedy, Mr. Machin!"

"Oh, yes!" Rose Euclid blurted out, as if shot. "It's very good of you
to ask us up here."

Mr. Seven Sachs concurred, adding that he hoped the illness was not
serious.

Edward Henry said it was not.

"Won't you sit down, all of you?" said Edward Henry.
"Miss--er--Euclid--"

They all sat down except Mr. Bryany.

"Sit down, Bryany," said Edward Henry. "I'm glad to be able to return
your hospitality at the Turk's Head."

This was a blow for Mr. Bryany, who obviously felt it, and grew even
more apologetic as he fumbled with assumed sprightliness at a chair.

"Fancy your being here all the time!" said he. "And me looked for you
everywhere--"

"Mr. Bryany," Seven Sachs interrupted him calmly, "have you got those
letters off?"

"Not yet, sir."

Seven Sachs urbanely smiled. "I think we ought to get them off
to-night."

"Certainly," agreed Mr. Bryany with eagerness, and moved towards the
door.

"Here's the key of my sitting-room," Seven Sachs stopped him,
producing a key.

Mr. Bryany, by a mischance catching Edward Henry's eye as he took the
key, blushed.

In a moment Edward Henry was alone with the two silent celebrities.

"Well," said Edward Henry to himself, "I've let myself in for it this
time--no mistake! What in the name of common sense am I doing here?"

Rose Euclid coughed and arranged the folds of her dress.

"I suppose, like most Americans, you see all the sights," said Edward
Henry to Seven Sachs--the Five Towns is much visited by Americans.
"What do you think of my dressing-gown?"

"Bully!" said Seven Sachs, with the faintest twinkle. And Rose Euclid
gave the mechanical, nervous giggle.

"I can do with this chap," thought Edward Henry.

The gentleman-in-waiting entered with the supper menu.

"Thank heaven!" thought Edward Henry.

Rose Euclid, requested to order a supper after her own mind, stared
vaguely at the menu for some moments, and then said that she did not
know what to order.

"Artichokes?" Edward Henry blandly suggested.

Again the giggle, followed this time by a flush! And suddenly Edward
Henry recognized in her the entrancing creature of fifteen years ago!
Her head thrown back, she had put her left hand behind her and was
groping with her long fingers for an object to touch. "He asked hurriedly.
»What should I expect? Quick ... I ask you ... "Maggie looked at
the ground. Now was the moment because, in which they Gertrud and her
own fate in their hands held. Bangigkeit and a tingling feeling at the
same time durchschauerten them, but they did not fluctuate.

Seckersdorf saw you with a regretful glance at which, at a deeper
expression of heartfelt sympathy.

"I do not know quite," she said looking, "Mr. von Seckersdorf, I
would have to say as much.

Basically, I think yes but that Gertrud you think.

I think it just!

But I have not so much understanding for the feeling of responsibility
of a mother. "" What does that mean, Miss Maggie?

"Asked Seckersdorf dismayed. "Have you told your sister, what I
see in Vokellen ..." Maggie nodded. "Literally, Mr. von Seckersdorf."
"And?" "She was happy for a moment and said: 'This I knew, yes!"

And then they become quiet and this has exaggerated - I think it
has because of their children from all over with tenderness exclusive
deals.

And when I - but I thought that it would help her a bit - she is so
frightened and in the best sense of the word formal, and I wanted
to let you also like to give ... "" Quick and easy?

"said Seckersdorf excited." Yes, she is very angry at me and has forbidden
me, as with you about them speak. "" You are prohibited?

"repeated Seckersdorf baffled. »Seriously prohibited? But you
yourself told me ..."

He saw Maggie almost as helpless, as it often did Gertrud. In such
moments she felt for him something of the tenderness which they had
withdrawn from the sister. Literally loose your compassion he
probably did. He took her hand and overhanging she said. "They are
good, Miss Maggie," he said quietly. "But, please, tell me, what
does that mean?

Say it open.

That's odd. Gertrude has with me not a word spoken about this, but
they said ... And I saw it even in ... "" Are you for God's sake not
worse by the poor Gertrude, "asked Maggie softly. "You see, seven
years married and unhappy in my opinion -" "Of course!"

Said Seckersdorf with conviction. "All the world knows how shamelessly
My brother ... Sorry ... "Maggie made a defensive move." Yes,
probably! But I am not sure whether Kurowski not yet a great affection
for Gertrude has. The kids love it surely. There are also letters
between them changed, even though Dad and Gertrude had said
to me ... No, I do not want to continue talking. It sounds almost
as if I Gertrud indictment that, as she says, a decent woman wants
to stay. "Then Seckersdorf on, and overshadowed his face with a course
of haughty surprise." Did she say that? " he asked shortly. »Have
I do about ... But that can not be. Miss Maggie, do you remember our
first meeting? "She nodded eagerly. »Schelten me, I was hasty in
my -" but the word was not totally smooth on her lips - "my love for
Gertrude. I tell you also, inwardly certainly has not changed with it.
But do not forget, she was never very brave, and now she is eight
years older and more miserable and mother, and - "A tenderly compassionate
smile sparked his lips, which he had earlier aufeinandergepreßt." And
a slave man had raw, " Maggie went away, and threw a hurried glance
at Seckersdorf of a nervous twitching of her words could not
bemeistern. Now he nodded a few anxious with his head. "It may well
be madness, after eight years of wanting to build a torn Case ,
"he said almost shyly.

"It is true, Miss Maggie, but ... but I've now almost even better
than it was then. I want them nice and happy, and I thought, as you
said so then, let me once again succeed. If they would be free ...
But God will save me, to bereden or mislead, if it holds for sin.
Law, it has indeed, pure and good as it is. No, I'm not sentimental
or spans. What does not work, that is not possible.

I had already been so abgefunden ... But ... "He placed the large,
white hand over the face as he wanted it in this moment can not see.
Maggie was a time not felt well. Like a stab them through the
thought: "What are you doing?" And afterwards: "What do you want even
with this great Baby, which is so completely fulfilled by the
others?"

There are not missing much and they would eingelenkt.

But there came into the head forester, and we sat down to dinner.
Seckersdorf made amiable and without some of his excitement to
tell the landlord only his eyes had a distracted, distressed look
and looked questioningly and reproachful Maggie, when she made a
cheerful note, with the father and herumstritt him with all sorts
of things tease.

"I will scatter thee, on thee this hour to help out," then told him
one time with her dark eyes expectant, and he responded with a
weak smile.

They in turn felt that it was pity him well, and played their role
with more satisfaction. The food was moderate, the wines are good. It
is therefore considered to drinking, the men of course, and thanks
to Maggie playfulness - "she is always so," said the head forester
- seemed the small round table soon in cheerful mood. Seckersdorf
laughed too much. In a large increase in its care, the stranger
himself, he was almost loquacious. "I've never thought that I
may be so," he admitted honestly. "But, gracious lady understand it,
a fun to make. I've already noticed in the Waldlackern. "" That will
always Gertrud, "she said, as in thought, and then gently, secretly on
radically. "Whether he will not compare?" In the name of him back in
the memory called, he is an dreary face, but Maggie but triumphed.
"Your wife's sister is not so cheerful?" He asked politely. "God
forbid , "said the head forester in their place with more
emphasis than necessary would have been.

"It was always just to watch and fondle. Na ... her husband, the
so continued. Do you think thousand marks he gives her pocket money
each month, which wants to read what our, that is my situation, where
our schindet and is a nuisance to the few thousand throughout the year
to earn them and all other household and to deny, "From because the
speech came on the service conditions, bureaucrats and property, and
what the change of the interview was associated. Maggie was not
with the usual polite ladies interested glance from one to another,
here and there making a positive move, but they eagerly talked
with. You never pondered much, but their unbiased observation,
their safe nature, for matching words to their thoughts, they
seem weltkluger much as it was, and since they are sometimes a
really feminine, with factual blunders undermined him, she came to
the men never be suspected of a verpönt erudition.

Seckersdorf saw her last full worshipful admiration for. "What
are you a girl?" Maggie sat on his looks. "Good, smart and vivacious."
It verplauderte during coffee. It was already dämmrig as the
head forester at the awakening thought. "Shame," said Maggie. "I
would really like the interesting old house seen. There's no doubt
about treasures treasures. "" Have old junk, "said Seckersdorf. "But
if you are interested, it would be a great honor for me, if I maybe
another ..." Maggie wanted to be sociable, but after a moment's
hesitation, but she shook her head. "Perhaps, when my sister back in
Laukischken is, "she answered, the father questioningly viewing.
"We do not like to leave them alone a lot, and she wants without her
husband are going nowhere." Both men were taken seriously, and the
farewell made cooler when he moved to the cozy hours probably
should have been. The gentlemen discussed before driving away
even more volatile some shops, Maggie made it into the Familienhalbwagen
comfortable, and then went to continue. "Tell me by pressing Mrs.
Kurowski," said Seckersdorf very stiff at the end. * * * * * Gertrude
had the dreamy morning. There were hardly conscious brooding, where
they are devotion: Past and future were in hasty, unclear images of her
past. Tears rose into her eyes and tapers off again quickly as
soon as they saw the boys at the front of the window, despite the
dazzling fine Regens herumspielten. She was peculiarly felt. They
knew very well that they Seckersdorf loved how she loathed her
husband that she was afraid Maggie, almost despised, but behind all
these strong and conscious thoughts stirred with a cold feeling
of foreboding, of duty and responsibility to Sichselbstverlieren
to Ausharrenmüssen warned, and ancient biblical sayings, formerly
learned and thoughtless hergesagt, confirmed it now.

But the victory was not him. In the self-reproaches and regulations
cried Hans Seckersdorfs never-forgotten voice inside: "Gertrude,
come to me," and then closed her eyes and dreamed that, despite
everything, with a sweet showers on his chest and complained to him
and said: 'Think' du care for me and that I am doing the right thing.

Help me, help me, only you, love!

"That feeling shook it again and is full of Gram said that, although
the hotly awaited her should meet, no longer would be able to forget
and re-experiencing.

As autumn showers overflew it. And then broke through again all
an irrational longing, now in this moment with him through the
woods to go to him and he geschmiegt protected from the gray rainy
weather.

Or even next to him, as Maggie is now certainly did. What they
probably speak? Maggie How it began to displace them? A desolate
jealousy made them miserable. Adventuresome jumped into their decisions
on how they write it with him to meet what he would say ... You
verflatterten barely emerged. New perplexity began to torment them,
the hours passed, it was lunchtime and no one was home.

They finally ate with Miss Perl and children, and began again a timid
conversation about unhappy marriages, on women who are alone earned
their bread, and so all sorts of what you went through your head.
Then came the post-lunch.

She brought her the answer to her husband from Nice. Shaking,
so they are included in their room, as if his words Kurt Kurowski
on foot followed, and long before she could decide not afraid, to open
the envelope. There were hardly two pages. Her heart almost stood
still, as they read. "My dear child!" It is time that I heimkomme
to you with a clear word to speak.

Provisional so much: I will not take back what I have often said,
is that you give me as a woman companion, and not enough.

To a divergence running, because you love your old back has
twisted his head, but is not thinking.'

s Scandal at the Kurowskis not, and the boys are not seeing her
father and her mother before the courts. Understood? Should the
Seckersdorf haggard, in my absence herumzuscharwenzeln with you,
I will buy it to me.

And you take in eight, and you write me again so nonsensical stuff.

You need to come now, I will be with you and hurry home to the Lord
and Master, when you do not order around parry should.

In addition, no animosity and no sentimentalism. Kurt. "Gertrud threw
herself sobbing on her bed.

She felt again the Zuchtrute throughout the past seven years.

All the sun's rays, they shy in the distant flash had seen, disappeared,
and the desolate Laukischker misery again spread its wings gray around
them.

"What I am doing only what I do?" Asked them to stay. »Who can help me?
Where should I go? ... Hans! Hans!

"In her distress and desolation Gertrud could be no thought, and
for the first time she grabbed a terrible fear that Hans Seckersdorf
maybe would not come, but they called him.

And when they rang the last decision that him to write a word. Like
a Discarded she is against. But she knew that no other council, and
they are afraid of her husband even more than before this intrusiveness
against Seckersdorf.

"He has loved me yes, and he's certainly the same," she thought. And
she wrote under flowing tears in her pretty, proper schoolgirl
handwriting: "Dear friend, I am in great fear of heart. And since
Maggie has told me that I would just like to have preserved old
friendship, I ask you to help me. Do you not think badly of me, so I'm
leaving and you're the only one to whom I can turn. With many regards,
your Gertrud Kurowski. "These lines placed them in an envelope and
wrote the address on it. A courier, it should be after Romitten care.
And then everything would be good, he would come and tell her
what she should do. They rested from the idea - but their children
should they no longer dared. With a little manual labor, in which
they herumstichelte fleetingly, she in the window of the living
room, from which they could see way over.

Only when the father and Maggie were back, it should, messenger,
the oldest boy of the coachman, after Romitten go.

She was haggard, that the father of Maggie and him on their way home
through the woods and stopping to take. She said the chambermaid
therefore a decision was also the boy come to him their instructions
einzuschärfen. "It's a business thing," she said embarrassed the
girls and the boys, and found the very consideration of that.

But while she fully reluctance: "Such small skew, I will now probably
have to do more often ..."

At last came the expected return. Maggie talked a lot, told her in
detail everything Äußere meeting with Seckersdorf described Romitten
and their stay there, looking cheerful and mainly to Ms.

Perl immediately.

Gertrud, doubly excited as she was, but was outwardly calm about
everything that is incompatible.

Because the father watched them, while Maggie told.

At this thought she even here and there a mocking smile perceive.

How painful was it all! They fled in their thoughts far away from
this once-beloved home.

Thank God, her letter was now underway, and tomorrow, perhaps they knew,
where and what to do.

While the Round-Hersprechens joined the chambermaids, and waited until
they would say. Gertrud was unsympathetic to her, in the same moment
she took but true that Lina with inquiring glance at her hanging.
They went together. "What's up?" Asked the head forester, and looked
around. The girl came closer. "I just wanted to ask whether the
coachman now Romitter not take the letter can - or should it go
the Fritz?"

she said half to Gertrude that issue. It was totenblaß. They waved
the girl to go out.

The head forester stood up. "What letter?" Unwirsch he asked. "From
my lady," said the shy girl.

The head forester trick the eyes together.

"Absolutely not necessary anymore. We come from Romitten. Bring
forth the letter, "A great silence arose. Gertrude is always
said:" I must protest, I must send my letter.

"But her lips trembled, and brought no word. The head forester stood
away from her and waited for regresion the girl.

Maggie looked with curiosity at Gertrude tense face, and Miss Perl
understood nothing. "Hast thou according Romitten written Hearts?"
She asked clueless. Gertrud silent. Lina joined with the letter
in hand.

The head forester took him from her and motioned her out. He saw the
long narrow yellow envelope, then he tore the letter open without
him, and threw it in the trash. "Fie!"

He said, before Gertrude aufpflanzend. "So my daughter is doing
something! What did you want from him? Published it! What is it?

What do you want from him ...

You not ashamed?

"Yes, Gertrud ashamed, as if they unsühnbares crimes. They knew
before the horror is no longer where it was.

She felt quite shattered, and thought only. »Continue, continue!
Or rather to die, "she could say nothing.

The head forester was dark red." Are you talking about? "He screamed.
Then there came to Maggie's sister." Torturing them is not useless,
Dad, "she said. "Finally, they can do and what they want." "Not
in my house," cried the head forester excited, "not in my home.
Should I rely on my old days with you confoundedly woman room to
get my reputation be?

... One is the man behind her, that it is a scandal, the other
writes him love letters.

And I, the father, to see anyone's foot, and halt to the whole
drifting, is not it?

"" It is not a love letter, papa, "said Gertrud hoarse.

"You probably permit that I remove.

I will ... überhaupt fortgehn soon ...

"They stumbled out.

The head forester ran around in the room excited.

"If only the Kurowski back would be." Maggie was deeply agitated.
So easy it seemed not to reach a destination, the obstacles of
this kind were opposite. She ran up to her room and wept. About Gertrud,
about themselves, about the whole life.

For the first time since the company Vokeller missing it Gertrud.

You would have to rush her into it and may be tender. Maybe even laugh
about the whole process history, and simply say: "Trude was good
... thou shalt have it again.

"And yet, no - that they would not.

What was it because überhaupt ein? Wollte they now begin to be sentimental?
Good and evil thoughts hasty in her and she shifted into a state
fiebernder unrest.

Once it was as if the whole calculation on which they based their
future life would be a wrong, as if they would lose, even if it's
achieved, wife of Seckersdorf them. And a strange fear seized her. But
then they mocked themselves and hardened in their brooding on power
and legitimacy, without moral or other concerns their own destiny
to forge.

Last, if they are on the whole situation appealed, it was a right
awkwardness Gertrud blessing for them. Gertrude had once written,
they would perhaps do so again, it was not a defenseless victim. They
led their cause and fought, as they, Maggie, And the sisters
themselves, the more favorable position.

  It was therefore take up, instead
  of dreaming. And now, once in
  reality, she thought of their natural allies, their brother.

Without the content of his last letters to Gertrude to know, but
she was convinced that he had arrived from outside the grounds for
a divorce would not resolve.

They even considered them again and talked to the view that it is
appropriate and reasonable if the marriage would not be separated.

It was only by Gertrud dismal flight and return to a false view can
tempt ...

We could have seriously Gertrud cajole be vigorously against
their tyrants proceedings, if necessary, it should help, rather
than - in the middle of this thought they jumped out of the annoying
angle in which they had zusammengekauert.

Why in the world, she played herself this comedy before?

Something had to do it. She wanted to write to Kurowski. He should
come home. Gertrude would term them, marked out, and then the
scandal would be ready. Most of all, thinking she sat down at the
desk, as they abrief. Neighboring visit had come to Auklapper Normann,
a funny old couple, the man was particularly close. Maggie breathed
relief.

The letter, of the unpleasant and difficult manner was then still
had to be postponed.

They washed quickly and ran down to greet the guests.

As people from another world, she appeared today. And yet they sat
comfortably and warmly as otherwise usual in the corners, drank
grog as usual at this time, talking comfortably and tease Maggie
else like the old gentleman, has become thick, with a few carefully
hinaufgekämmten, black hair, a friendly smile ironic to the wide
mouth, was formerly the Schwerenöter of the circle was.

  His wife, nice and gentle,
  had suffered much and have a lot of grieve.

Today they are called "Papa" and "Mama," were both peaceful and ready,
and had little mutual attentions to each other and it will make
life easy.

That was probably the usual end of all sad and happy Ehemelodieen.

Maggie thoughts flew to twenty years to Gertrude and vorauf Kurowski,
and then to himself and Seckersdorf.

She was very bad there and she felt again the old, raging desire to
ascend to, exploit, to enjoy while they are still young and their nerves
were still susceptible to. The friends found the head forester
detuned and Maggie still. They began to tease them, the name
Seckersdorfs fell, and since the Auklapper were old friends, they
also made an allusion to Gertrude and inheritance, which seemed
to stand as Maggie.

"God," cried the head forester in between. »Where is actually
the Gertrude? Before you need it but not too verkriechen?
Look after, Maggie. "Maggie went slowly out. Lina alleged that the
madam at the same time as the lady to have notified. So Maggie went up.
As Gertrude knocking on her failure to respond, she made the door
quietly. Rotverschleierte The lamp was burning on the table, on which
Gertrude was writing stuff. They even sat at the window. Maggie
came to her. She was dressed to go out, but was in a white
blanket wrapped and looked out the window. The yellow moon shone through
the gray-green clouds, in strips and shreds moved across the sky.

Gertrude saw in the eerie light from pale and rigid.

You never turned around. Maggie heart pulled together. "What
do you do?

Where do you want out?

"She asked, trembling."

Fort, "said Gertrud without them." Where? "Gertrude winced armpits.

"You know, I wanted to move away," she said, "but it freezes me."

"It is as if they would have lost the mind," Maggie thought,
horrified. "Come from the window but continues," said she dominated.
"It moves like that." Gertrude stood up. "Yes," said she, "that is
true." Maggie freed them from the ceiling, pulled her coat and took
her hat off. She let it fall. Maggie would have gladly taken up in
the arms, but they dared not, and also feared. She went after the bell.
"What do you want?" Asked Gertrude livelier, in fear.

"But, child, heut 'it's already too late, tonight' you can no
longer continue. You also have fever, yes, you've got a fever,
and I want to go to the Virgin ... "Gertrud she said." I have heard a
car, "she said bang. »Is my husband about it?" "No, no - how could
he?" Said Maggie trembling. »How do you react?"

"I noticed that he could with his letter also wear -" they pushed her
to the letter, which lay on the table.

Maggie took him about it. "The Auklapper were," she said. "They want to
see you happy. But you will not can not? You need to bed, yes?
"Gertrude did not answer and stared silently into the lamp. Maggie
bell rang.

"The madam is not well, help her," it meant entering the Virgin. "That
it will pass," whispered to her.

"That was just as gracious woman with the Junkers fortging."

Maggie was calming. Thank God, so the least was not their fault.

The next room was the vast bedroom with two beds in it. Edward Henry
closed the door carefully, and drew the _portière_ across it. Then he
listened. No sound penetrated from the scene of the supper.

"There _is_ a telephone in this room, isn't there?" he said to Joseph.
"Oh, yes, there it is! Well, you can go."

"Yes, sir."

Edward Henry sat down on one of the beds by the hook on which hung
the telephone. And he cogitated upon the characteristics of certain
members of the party which he had just left. "I'm a 'virgin mind,'
am I?" he thought. "I'm a 'clean slate'? Well!... Their notion of
business is to begin by discussing the name of the theatre! And they
haven't even taken up the option! Ye gods! 'Intellectual'! 'Muses'!
'The Orient Pearl.' And she's fifty--that I swear! Not a word yet of
real business--not one word! He may be a poet. I daresay he is. He's
a conceited ass. Why, even Bryany was better than that lot. Only
Sachs turned Bryany out. I like Sachs. But he won't open his mouth....
'Capitalist'! Well, they spoilt my appetite, and I hate champagne!...
The poet hates money.... No, he 'hates the thought of money.' And
she's changing her mind the whole blessed time! A month ago she'd
have gone over to Pilgrim, and the poet too, like a
house-a-fire!...Photographed indeed! The bally photographer will be
here in a minute!... They take me for a fool!... Or don't they know
any better?... Anyhow, I am a fool.... I must teach 'em summat!"

He seized the telephone.

"Hello!" he said into it. "I want you to put me on to the drawing-room
of Suite No. 48, please. Who? Oh, me! I'm in the bedroom of Suite No.
48. Machin, Alderman Machin. Thanks. That's all right."

He waited. Then he heard Harrier's Kensingtonian voice in the
telephone asking who he was.

"Is that Mr. Machin's room?" he continued, imitating with a broad
farcical effect the acute Kensingtonianism of Mr. Marrier's tones. "Is
Miss Ra-ose Euclid there? Oh! She is! Well, you tell her that Sir John
Pilgrim's private secretary wishes to speak to her? Thanks. All right.
_I_'ll hold the line."

A pause. Then he heard Rose's voice in the telephone, and he resumed:

"Miss Euclid? Yes. Sir John Pilgrim. I beg pardon! Banks? Oh, _Banks_!
No, I'm not Banks. I suppose you mean my predecessor. He's left. Left
last week. No, I don't know why. Sir John instructs me to ask if you
and Mr. Trent could lunch with him to-morrow at wun-thirty? What?
Oh! at his house. Yes. I mean flat. Flat! I said flat. You think you
could?"

Pause. He could hear her calling to Carlo Trent.

"Thanks. No, I don't know exactly," he went on again. "But I know the
arrangement with Miss Pryde is broken off. And Sir John wants a play
at once. He told me that! At once! Yes. 'The Orient Pearl.' That was
the title. At the Royal first, and then the world's tour. Fifteen
months at least in all, so I gathered. Of course I don't speak
officially. Well, many thanks. Saoo good of you. I'll tell Sir John
it's arranged. One-thirty to-morrow. Good-bye!"

He hung up the telephone. The excited, eager, effusive tones of Rose
Euclid remained in his ears. Aware of a strange phenomenon on his
forehead, he touched it. He was perspiring.

"I'll teach 'em a thing or two," he muttered.

And again:

"Serves her right.... 'Never, never appear at any other theatre, Mr.
Machin!' ... 'Bended knees!' ... 'Utterly!' ... Cheerful partners! Oh!
cheerful partners!"

He returned to his supper-party. Nobody said a word about the
telephoning. But Rose Euclid and Carlo Trent looked even more like
conspirators than they did before; and Mr. Marrier's joy in life
seemed to be just the least bit diminished.

"So sorry!" Edward Henry began hurriedly, and, without consulting the
poet's wishes, subtly turned on all the lights. "Now, don't you think
we'd better discuss the question of taking up the option? You know, it
expires on Friday."

"No," said Rose Euclid, girlishly. "It expires to-morrow. That's why
it's so _fortunate_ we got hold of you to-night."

"But Mr. Bryany told me Friday. And the date was clear enough on the
copy of the option he gave me."

"A mistake of copying," beamed Mr. Marrier. "However, it's all right."

"Well," observed Edward Henry with heartiness, "I don't mind telling
you that for sheer calm coolness you take the cake. However, as Mr.
Marrier so ably says, it's all right. Now I understand if I go into
this affair I can count on you absolutely, and also on Mr. Trent's
services." He tried to talk as if he had been diplomatizing with
actresses and poets all his life.

"A--absolutely!" said Rose.

And Mr. Carlo Trent nodded.

"You Iscariots!" Edward Henry addressed them, in the silence of the
brain, behind his smile. "You Iscariots!"

The photographer arrived with certain cases, and at once Rose Euclid
and Carlo Trent began instinctively to pose.

"To think," Edward Henry pleasantly reflected, "that they are hugging
themselves because Sir John Pilgrim's secretary happened to telephone
just while I was out of the room!"


CHAPTER V

MR SACHS TALKS


I


It was the sudden flash of the photographer's magnesium light, plainly
felt by him through his closed lids, that somehow instantly inspired
Edward Henry to a definite and ruthless line of action. He opened his
eyes and beheld the triumphant group, and the photographer himself,
victorious over even the triumphant, in a superb pose that suggested
that all distinguished mankind in his presence was naught but food for
the conquering camera. The photographer smiled indulgently, and his
smile said: "Having been photographed by me, you have each of you
reached the summit of your career. Be content. Retire! Die! Destiny is
accomplished."

"Mr. Machin," said Rose Euclid, "I do believe your eyes were shut!"

"So do I!" Edward Henry curtly agreed.

"But you'll spoil the group!"

"Not a bit of it!" said Edward Henry. "I always shut my eyes when I'm
being photographed by flash-light. I open my mouth instead. So long as
something's open, what does it matter?"

The truth was that only in the nick of time had he, by a happy miracle
of ingenuity, invented a way of ruining the photograph. The absolute
necessity for its ruin had presented itself to him rather late in the
proceedings, when the photographer had already finished arranging
the hands and shoulders of everybody in an artistic pattern. The
photograph had to be spoilt for the imperative reason that his
mother, though she never read a newspaper, did as a fact look at a
picture-newspaper, _The Daily Film_, which from pride she insisted on
paying for out of her own purse, at the rate of one halfpenny a day.
Now _The Daily Film_ specialized in theatrical photographs, on which
it said it spent large sums of money: and Edward Henry in a vision had
seen the historic group in a future issue of the _Film_. He had also,
in the same vision, seen his mother conning the said issue, and the
sardonic curve of her lips as she recognized her son therein, and he
had even heard her dry, cynical, contemptuous exclamation: "Bless us!"
He could never have looked squarely in his mother's face again if
that group had appeared in her chosen organ! Her silent and grim scorn
would have crushed his self-conceit to a miserable, hopeless pulp.
Hence his resolve to render the photograph impossible.

"Perhaps I'd better take another one?" the photographer suggested,
"though I think Mr.--er--Machin was all right." At the supreme crisis
the man had been too busy with his fireworks to keep a watch on every
separate eye and mouth of the assemblage.

"Of course I was all right!" said Edward Henry, almost with brutality.
"Please take that thing away, as quickly as you can. We have business
to attend to."

"Yes, sir," agreed the photographer, no longer victorious.

Edward Henry rang his bell, and two gentlemen-in-waiting arrived.

"Clear this table immediately!"

The tone of the command startled everybody except the
gentlemen-in-waiting and Mr. Seven Sachs. Rose Euclid gave vent to her
nervous giggle. The poet and Mr. Marrier tried to appear detached and
dignified, and succeeded in appearing guiltily confused--for which
they contemned themselves. Despite this volition, the glances of all
three of them too clearly signified "This capitalist must be humoured.
He has an unlimited supply of actual cash, and therefore he has the
right to be peculiar. Moreover, we know that he is a card." ... And,
curiously, Edward Henry himself was deriving great force of character
from the simple reflection that he had indeed a lot of money, real
available money, his to do utterly as he liked with it, hidden in
a secret place in that very room. "I'll show 'em what's what!" he
privately mused. "Celebrities or not, I'll show 'em! If they think
they can come it over me--!"

It was, I regret to say, the state of mind of a bully. Such is the
noxious influence of excessive coin!

He reproached the greatest actress and the greatest dramatic poet for
deceiving him, and quite ignored the nevertheless fairly obvious fact
that he had first deceived them.

"Now then," he began, with something of the pomposity of a chairman
at a directors' meeting, as soon as the table had been cleared and the
room emptied of gentlemen-in-waiting and photographer and photographic
apparatus, "let us see exactly where we stand."

He glanced specially at Rose Euclid, who with an air of deep business
acumen returned the glance.

"Yes," she eagerly replied, as one seeking after righteousness. "_Do_
let's see."

"The option must be taken up to-morrow. Good! That's clear. It came
rather casual-like, but it's now clear. £4500 has to be paid down to
buy the existing building on the land and so on.... Eh?"

"Yes. Of course Mr. Bryany told you all that, didn't he?" said Rose,
brightly.

"Mr. Bryany did tell me," Edward Henry admitted sternly. "But if
Mr. Bryany can make a mistake in the day of the week he might make a
mistake in a few noughts at the end of a sum of money."

Suddenly Mr. Seven Sachs startled them all by emerging from his
silence with the words:

"The figure is O.K."

Instinctively Edward Henry waited for more; but no more came. Mr.
Seven Sachs was one of those rare and disconcerting persons who do not
keep on talking after they have finished. He resumed his tranquillity,
he re-entered into his silence, with no symptom of self-consciousness,
entirely cheerful and at ease. And Edward Henry was aware of his
observant and steady gaze. Edward Henry said to himself: "This man is
expecting me to behave in a remarkable way. Bryany has been telling
him all about me, and he is waiting to see if I really am as good as
my reputation. I have just got to be as good as my reputation!" He
looked up at the electric chandelier, almost with regret that it was
not gas. One cannot light one's cigarette by twisting a hundred-pound
bank-note and sticking it into an electric chandelier. Moreover, there
were some thousands of matches on the table. Still further, he had
done the cigarette-lighting trick once for all. A first-class card
must not repeat himself.

"This money," Edward Henry proceeded, "has to be paid to Slossons,
Lord Woldo's solicitors, to-morrow, Wednesday, rain or shine?" He
finished the phrase on a note of interrogation, and as nobody offered
any reply, he rapped on the table, and repeated, half-menacingly:
"Rain or shine!"

"Yes," said Rose Euclid, leaning timidly forward and taking a
cigarette from a gold case that lay on the table. All her movements
indicated an earnest desire to be thoroughly business-like.

"So that, Miss Euclid," Edward Henry continued impressively, but with
a wilful touch of incredulity, "you are in a position to pay your
share of this money to-morrow?"

"Certainly!" said Miss Euclid. And it was as if she had said,
aggrieved: "Can you doubt my honour?"

"To-morrow morning?"

"Ye-es."

"That is to say, to-morrow morning you will have £2250 in actual
cash--coin, notes--actually in your possession?"

Miss Euclid's disengaged hand was feeling out behind her again for
some surface upon which to express its emotion and hers.

"Well--" she stopped, flushing.

("These people are astounding," Edward Henry reflected, like a god.
"She's not got the money. I knew it!")

"It's like this, Mr. Machin," Marrier began.

"Excuse me, Mr. Marrier," Edward Henry turned on him, determined if he
could to eliminate the optimism from that beaming face. "Any friend
of Miss Euclid's is welcome here, but you've already talked about this
theatre as 'ours,' and I just want to know where you come in."

"Where I come in?" Marrier smiled, absolutely unperturbed. "Miss
Euclid has appointed me general manajah."

"At what salary, if it isn't a rude question?"

"Oh! We haven't settled details yet. You see the theatre isn't built
yet."

"True!" said Edward Henry. "I was forgetting! I was thinking for the
moment that the theatre was all ready and going to be opened to-morrow
night with 'The Orient Pearl.' Have you had much experience of
managing theatres, Mr. Marrier? I suppose you have."

"Eho yes!" exclaimed Mr. Marrier. "I began life as a lawyah's clerk,
but--"

"So did I," Edward Henry interjected.

"How interesting!" Rose Euclid murmured with fervency, after puffing
forth a long shaft of smoke.

"However, I threw it up," Marrier went on.

"I didn't," said Edward Henry. "I got thrown out!"

Strange that in that moment he was positively proud of having been
dismissed from his first situation! Strange that all the company,
too, thought the better of him for having been dismissed! Strange that
Marrier regretted that he also had not been dismissed! But so it was.
The possession of much ready money emits a peculiar effluence in both
directions--back to the past, forward into the future.

"I threw it up," said Marrier, "because the stage had an irresistible
attraction for me. I'd been stage-manajah for an amateur company, you
knaoo. I found a shop as stage-manajah of a company touring 'Uncle
Tom's Cabin.' I stuck to that for six years, and then I threw that
up too. Then I've managed one of Miss Euclid's provincial tours. And
since I met our friend Trent I've had the chance to show what my ideas
about play-producing really are. I fancy my production of Trent's
one-act play won't be forgotten in a hurry.... You know--'The Nymph'?
You read about it, didn't you?"

"I did not," said Edward Henry. "How long did it run?"

"Oh! It didn't run. It wasn't put on for a run. It was part of one
of the Sunday night shows of the Play-Producing Society, at the
Court Theatre. Most intellectual people in London, you know. No such
audience anywhere else in the wahld!" His rather chubby face glistened
and shimmered with enthusiasm. "You bet!" he added. "But that was
only by the way. My real game is management--general management. And I
think I may say I know what it is?"

"Evidently!" Edward Henry concurred. "But shall you have to give up
any other engagement in order to take charge of The Muses' Theatre?
Because if so--"

Mr. Marrier replied:

"No."

Edward Henry observed:

"Oh!"

"But," said Marrier, reassuringly, "if necessary I would throw up
any engagement--you understand me, any--in favour of The Intellectual
Theatah--as I prefer to call it. You see, as I own part of the
option--"

By these last words Edward Henry was confounded, even to muteness.

"I forgot to mention, Mr. Machin," said Rose Euclid, very quickly.
"I've disposed of a quarter of my half of the option to Mr. Marrier.
He fully agreed with me it was better that he should have a proper
interest in the theatre."

"Why of course!" cried Mr. Harrier, uplifted.

"Let me see," said Edward Henry, after a long breath, "a quarter. That
makes it that you have to find £562, 10s. to-morrow, Mr. Marrier."

"Yes."

"To-morrow morning--you'll be all right?"

"Well, I won't swear for the morning, but I shall turn up with the
stuff in the afternoon, anyhow. I've two men in tow, and one of them's
a certainty."

"Which?"

"I don't know which," said Mr. Marrier. "How-evah, you may count on
yours sincerely, Mr. Machin."

There was a pause.

"Perhaps I ought to tell you," Rose Euclid smiled, "perhaps I ought
to tell you that Mr. Trent is also one of our partners. He has taken
another quarter of my half."

Edward Henry controlled himself.

"Excellent!" said he, with glee. "Mr. Trent's money all ready, too?"

"I am providing most of it--temporarily," said Rose Euclid.

"I see. Then I understand you have your three quarters of £2250 all
ready in hand."

She glanced at Mr. Seven Sachs.

"Have I, Mr. Sachs?"

And Mr. Sachs, after an instant's hesitation, bowed in assent.

"Mr. Sachs is not exactly going into the speculation, but he is
lending us money on the security of our interests. That's the way to
put it, isn't it, Mr. Sachs?"

Mr. Sachs once more bowed.

And Edward Henry exclaimed:

"Now I really do see!"

He gave one glance across the table at Mr. Seven Sachs, as who should
say: "And have you too allowed yourself to be dragged into this
affair? I really thought you were cleverer. Don't you agree with me
that we're both fools of the most arrant description?" And under
that brief glance Mr. Seven Sachs's calm deserted him as it had never
deserted him on the stage, where for over fifteen hundred nights he
had withstood the menace of revolvers, poison, and female treachery
through three hours and four acts without a single moment of
agitation.

Apparently Miss Rose Euclid could exercise a siren's charm upon nearly
all sorts of men. But Edward Henry knew one sort of men upon whom she
could not exercise it--namely, the sort of men who are born and bred
in the Five Towns. His instinctive belief in the Five Towns as the
sole cradle of hard practical common sense was never stronger than
just now. You might by wiles get the better of London and America, but
not of the Five Towns. If Rose Euclid were to go around and about
the Five Towns trying to do the siren business, she would pretty soon
discover that she was up against something rather special in the way
of human nature!

Why, the probability was that these three--Rose Euclid (only a few
hours since a glorious name and legend to him), Carlo Trent, and Mr.
Marrier--could not at that moment produce even ten pounds between
them!... And Marrier offering to lay fivers!... He scornfully pitied
them. And he was not altogether without pity for Seven Sachs, who had
doubtless succeeded in life by sheer accident and knew no more than an
infant what to do with his too-easily-earned money.


II


"Well," said Edward Henry, "shall I tell you what I've decided?"

"Please do!" Rose Euclid entreated him.

"I've decided to make you a present of my half of the option."

"But aren't you going in with us?" exclaimed Rose, horror-struck.

"No, madam."

"But Mr. Bryany told us positively you were! He said it was all
arranged!"

"Mr. Bryany ought to be more careful," said Edward Henry. "If he
doesn't mind he'll be telling a downright lie some day."

"But you bought half the option!"

"Well," said Edward Henry, reasoning. "What _is_ an option? What does
it mean? It means you are free to take something or leave it. I'm
leaving it."

"But why?" demanded Mr. Marrier, gloomier.

Carlo Trent played with his eyeglasses and said not a word.

"Why?" Edward Henry replied. "Simply because I feel I'm not fitted for
the job. I don't know enough. I don't understand. I shouldn't go the
right way about the affair. For instance, I should never have guessed
by myself that it was the proper thing to settle the name of the
theatre before you'd got the lease of the land you're going to build
it on. Then I'm old-fashioned. I hate leaving things to the last
moment; but seemingly there's only one proper moment in these
theatrical affairs, and that's the very last. I'm afraid there'd be
too much trusting in providence for my taste. I believe in trusting
in providence, but I can't bear to see providence overworked. And
I've never even tried to be intellectual, and I'm a bit frightened of
poetry plays--"

"But you've not read my play!" Carlo Trent mutteringly protested.

"That is so," admitted Edward Henry.

"Will you read it?"

"Mr. Trent," said Edward Henry, "I'm not so young as I was."

"We're ruined!" sighed Rose Euclid, with a tragic gesture.

"Ruined?" Edward Henry took her up smiling. "Nobody is ruined who
knows where he can get a square meal. Do you mean to tell me you don't
know where you're going to lunch to-morrow?" And he looked hard at
her.

It was a blow. She blenched under it.

"Oh, yes," she said, with her giggle, "I know that."

("Well you just don't!" he answered her in his heart. "You think
you're going to lunch with John Pilgrim. And you aren't. And it serves
you right!")

"Besides," he continued aloud, "how can you say you're ruined when I'm
making you a present of something that I paid £100 for?"

"But where am I to find the other half of the money--£2250?" she burst
out. "We were depending absolutely on you for it. If I don't get it,
the option will be lost, and the option's very valuable."

"All the easier to find the money then!"

"What? In less than twenty-four hours? It can't be done. I couldn't
get it in all London."

"Mr. Marrier will get it for you ... one of his certainties!" Edward
Henry smiled in the Five Towns manner.

"I _might_, you knaoo!" said Marrier, brightening to full hope in the
fraction of a second.

But Rose Euclid only shook her head.

"Mr. Seven Sachs, then?" Edward Henry suggested.

"I should have been delighted," said Mr. Sachs, with the most perfect
gracious tranquillity. "But I cannot find another £2250 to-morrow."

"I shall just speak to that Mr. Bryany!" said Rose Euclid, in the
accents of homicide.

"I think you ought to," Edward Henry concurred. "But that won't help
things. I feel a little responsible, especially to a lady. You have a
quarter of the whole option left in your hands, Miss Euclid. Eben
aufdringlich accused the rest of this meant that he felt, secretly a
first Beunruhigtsein. He, too, was excited: the game had begun.

He delayed his dinner, gave this woman a half-hour almost constantly
with the view out each line until he retraced her face to any body
of her lush body had stirred invisible.

Outside, the darkness was pressing down in the woods sighed childish
fear than it is now the big rain clouds gray hands after them reckten
always finstrer pushed into the shadows inside the room, seemed
more and more people here are compressed by the silence.

The interview of the mother with her child, which he noted, under the
threat of this silence is always forced to always artificial, and soon,
he felt, it would be over. Since he decided one sample. He stood
on the first, went slowly, with a long look at the landscape of her
sight, to the door. There, he quickly jerked as if he had forgotten
something, her head around.

And catch them as they look lively nachsah.

That fascinated him.

He waited in the hall. It came soon after, the boy's hand, scrolls in
passing among the journals, showed the child a few pictures. But
as the Baron, as by chance, came to the table, apparently to include
a journal search for the truth to penetrate deeper into the wet gleam
of their eyes to penetrate, perhaps even start a conversation, she
turned away, knocked her son lightly on the shoulder: '= Viens,
Edgar!

Au lit! = "Cool and swept past him. A little disappointed, saw her
after the Baron.

He had a known or expected this evening, and this kind of rugged
disappoint him. But ultimately, this resistance was irritable,
and this sparked his desire Insecure. Still, he had his partner,
and a game could begin. Rasche friendship as the Baron in the next
morning in the Hall came, he saw there the child of the beautiful
unknown keen in conversation with the two Liftboys, where images
in a book by Karl May showed. His mom was not here, apparently still
employed with the toilet. Now, the Baron besah the boys. It was a
shy, nervous undeveloped boy of about twelve years with erratic
movements herumjagenden and dark eyes. He made, such as children
in these years so often, the impression of scared, almost as if he
just ripped from sleep and suddenly in strange surroundings is
submitted. His face was not unhübsch, but still undecided, the battle
of the male with the childishness seemed just to want to use, yet
it was all just like kneaded and not yet formed, not in pure lines
expressed only pale and restless gemengt. Moreover, he was very
disadvantageous in that age, where children never fit into their clothes,
sleeves and pants flaccid to lean joints dodder and no inner vanity
she reminds us to look at her watch. The boy made here irresolutely
wander around a fairly pitiful impression. Actually, he stood in all
ways.

Soon the bell pushed him aside, he with all kinds of questions
seemed to bother, and soon he was bothered at the entrance, apparently
lacked him friendly deal.

So he looked in his child's need to chat to the staff of the hotel
heranzumachen to him if they had just answered the call but immediately
broke out when an adult came in sight, or something sensible it had
to be done.

The Baron smiled and looked with interest to the unfortunate boy, of
everything with curiosity and everything looked unfriendly escaped.

Once he grabbed one of those curious eyes fixed, but the black
eyes immediately crept timidly into the inside, once he search them
on the catch, and ducked behind lowered eyelids. This amused the
Baron.

The boy began to interest him, and he wondered if this child to him,
apparently just out of fear was so shy, not as quickly broker a
rapprochement ester could serve.

Still, he wanted to try it.

Inconspicuous, he followed the boys, who just returned to hinauspendelte
door and in his childish Zärtlichkeitsbedürfnis pink nostrils a
Schimmels caressed, to him - he really had no luck - even here the
coachman wegwies pretty harsh.

Hurt and bored now, he stood with his back down a bit empty and sad
look.

Then said he to the baron. "Well, young man, how do you like that?" He
suddenly began to make efforts to address possible to keep jovially.
Feuerrot The child was frightened and stared at. He pulled a hand somehow
in fear itself, and walked back and forth in front of embarrassment.
That happened to him for the first time that a foreign gentleman with
him started a conversation. "I thank you, well," he could barely
herausstammeln. The last word was spoken more than choked. "That
surprised me," said the Baron, laughing, "it is actually a fader place,
especially for a young man, like you're a. What do you do all day?
"The boy was still too confused to respond quickly. Was it really
possible that this foreign elegant gentleman with him, by which
no one else cared, looked a conversation?

The thought made him shy and proud at the same time. Mühsam raffte he
collapsed. "I read, and then we go far a walk.

Sometimes we go in the car, Mom and me.

I am here is to recover, I was sick. I have to put as much sitting in
the sun, the doctor said.

"The last words he said, pretty sure.

Children are always proud of a disease, because they know that they
risk their families, doubly important.

"Yes, the sun is good for young gentlemen, like you're one, it will
burn you already brown.

But you should not sit the whole day. A boy like you should loose, wanton,
and a little mischief queue. It seems to me you're too good, you look
so like a couch potato with your big thick book under his arm. If I
believe what I see in your age for a gallows stunt was, every night I'm
with the torn trousers come home. Only not to be brave! "Involuntarily
the child had to smile, and took him to fear. It would have replied
something like, but all this seemed to him to be bold, be confident
in this strange love Lord of the so friendly with him. Vorlaut he
never had and always slightly embarrassed, and so was he now of joy
and shame in the worst confusion. He would have liked so the conversation
continued, but there was nothing to him. Fortunately, came straight to
the big yellow hotel Bernhardiner over, sniffs at them both and
was willing to caress.

"Do you like dogs?" Asked the Baron.

"Oh great, my mom has a large in her villa in Baden, and if we are
live, he is always the whole day with me. But this is only in the summer
when we are there to visit. "" We have at home, on our good, I think,
two dozen. If you're good here, do you get one of my gift.

A brown with white ears, a very young.

Will you? "The child blushed before pleasure."

Oh yes. "It drove him out so hot and greedy. But immediately afterwards
stumbled, frightened and terrified as the concerns.

"But Mom will not allow it. She says she does not condone dog at
home. They make too much trouble. "The Baron smiled. Finally gave the
interview with my mom. "Is it strictly the Mum?" The child pondered,
looked at one seconds to him, like asking whether you have this strange
Lord could trust. The answer remained cautious: "No, Mama is strictly
not. Now, because I was sick, they allowed me everything. Perhaps it
allows me even a dog. "" Should I ask?

"" Yes, please do so, "the boy cheered. "Then it will certainly allow
the mom. And how does it look like? White ears he has, is not it?
Can he fetch? "" Yes, he can do everything.

"The Baron had to smile over the hot sparks, which he so quickly out
of sight of the child was beaten. With times the initial bias was
broken, and the fear held back passion bubbled over. In lightning-fast
transformation was the shy frightened child of a former a suitable
boy. If only the mother would, involuntarily thought the Baron,
so hot behind their fear! But already the boy jumped to twenty
questions about him up: "What is the dog?" "Diamonds." "Diamonds,"
cheered the child. It somehow had to laugh and cheer on every word,
very drunk by the unexpected turn of events that someone in his
kindness had adopted. The baron himself was amazed about his rapid
success and decided to handle the hot iron to forge.

He invited the boy, with him a little walk, and the poor boy, starved
for weeks after a convivial gathering, was charmed by this proposal.
Unwisely he chatted all from what his new friend with a small, random
questions as wanted to elicit.

Soon the Baron knew everything about the family, especially that
Edgar is the only son of a Viennese lawyer was apparently from the
wealthy Jewish bourgeoisie.

And he skillfully surveys explored quickly, that the parent about the
stay at Semmering not thrilled and expressed the lack of sympathetic
complained that, yes, he even believed, from the evasive way in
which Edgar replied the question whether the Mama the dad was very
happy, to be able to see that not everything would be the best.

Almost ashamed he is, how easy it was, the boys all these unsuspecting
young family secrets to elicit, because Edgar, very proud that
something of what he had to tell an adult could be interested, urged
his confidence to the new friends is virtually inevitable.

His infantile heart beat with pride - the Baron had him walking his arm
around the shoulder laid - in such public intimacy with an adult to
be seen, and gradually he forgot his own childhood, schnatterte free
and relaxed as a peer .

Edgar was, as his talk show, very clever, a bit precocious as most
sickly children who are much together with adults, and by a strange
overwrought passion of affection or hostility. Nothing seemed to calm
his relationship to have, by any person or thing he said, either
in or with a rapture Hasse, who was so violently that he distorted
his face unpleasant and it almost made vicious and ugly.

Something wild and erratic, perhaps due to the recently about illness,
gave up his fanatical speeches fire, and it seemed that his only
difficulty Linkischsein suppressed fear of one's own passion was.
The Baron has won his confidence with ease. A mere half hour, and
he had this hot and restless heart jerking in the hand. It is so easy
unutterable children to cheat, this innocent, whose love is so rarely
advertised.

He took himself only in the past to be forgotten, and so natural, so
relaxed, he was the child's conversation that the boy all over him
as his equal and felt after a few minutes each distance feeling lost.
He was saved only by good fortune, here in this lonely place
suddenly found a friend to have, and what a friend! Remember, they
were all in Vienna, the young boy with thin voices, their inexperienced
chatter, as their pictures were washed away by this new hour! His
entire shoals entrepreneurial passion now this new one, his
great friends, and his heart expanded with pride, as it it now
invited to leave again, come back tomorrow morning, and the new
friend he now zuwinkte from afar, like a brother.

This minute was perhaps the finest of his life. It is so
easy for kids to cheat. - The Baron Of Stürm smiled the ends under.
The mediator was now won. The boy would be now that he knew his
mother with stories to exhaustion torment, every single word again
- and he remembered with pleasure, as he skillfully some
compliments on their address inserted, as he always only by Edgars
»beautiful Mama "had spoken. It was off thing for him, that the
communicative boy would not rest earlier, before his mom and him
together would have led. He himself is now no need to touch fingers
to the distance between himself and the beautiful unknowns to reduce
could now sweet dreams and look over the landscape, because he knew
a couple of hot children's hands he built the bridge to her heart.
Terzett The plan was how an hour later revealed splendidly until the
last details done. When the young Baron, with the intention somewhat
belatedly, entered the dining room, jerked from his chair to Edgar,
eagerly greeted with a happy smile and waved him on. At the same
time plucking his mother on the sleeve, and said hastily aroused in
them, with eye-catching gestures against them, the Baron. She embarrassed
him and his blushing too keen behavior, but it could not be avoided,
once hinüberzusehen to the boys to do his will, which the baron
immediately cause a respectful bow adopted.

The acquaintance was made. They had to thank bent but from now on
the lower face of the plate and carefully avoided throughout the
Diners hinüberzublicken again. Anders Edgar, the incessant hinguckte
once even tried hinüberzusprechen an inadmissible to him immediately
by his mother vigorously referenced. Dessert was mean to him that
he had to go to sleep and a busy whispering began between him and his
mum, whose final result was that his request verstattet was called, on
the other table hinüberzugehen and when his friend recommended.
The Baron told him a few warm words, which again the eyes of a child
brought to the flickering, chatted with him a few minutes.

Suddenly, however, with a clever twist, he turned down, stand up, the
other across the table, congratulated the somewhat bemused neighbor
to their clever, bright son, praised the morning, which he so splendidly
had spent with him - it was Edgar, red with joy and pride - and
finally inquired after his health in such detail and with so many
individual issues that the mother was forced to answer.

And so they ran steadily in a long conversation, the boy happy and
with a kind of reverence listened.

The Baron introduced himself and believed to be noted that his sounding
name on the Eitle a certain impression.

In any case, she was extremely courteousness against him, although
they are not awarded early farewell and even took the boy's sake,
as she apologetically attached.

The protested vehemently that he was not tired and happy, the whole
night aufzubleiben.

But his mother had been the Baron's hand offered, which they
respectfully kissed.

"I was starving in New York,--trying to
sell a new razor on commission--and I was determined to get on to the
stage. I had one visiting-card left--just one. I wrote 'Important' on
it, and sent it up to Wunch. I don't know whether you've ever heard
of Wunch. Wunch was Archibald Florance's stage-manager, and nearly as
famous as Archibald himself. Well, Wunch sent for me upstairs to his
room, but when he found I was only the usual youngster after the usual
job he just had me thrown out of the theatre. He said I'd no right
to put 'Important' on a visiting-card. 'Well,' I said to myself,
'I'm going to get back into that theatre somehow!' So I went up to
Archibald's private house--Sixtieth Street I think it was--and asked
to see him, and I saw him. When I got into his room he was writing.
He kept on writing for some minutes, and then he swung round on his
chair.

"'And what can I do for you, sir?' he said.

"'Do you want any actors, Mr. Florance?' I said.

"'Are you an actor?' he said.

"'I want to be one,' I said.

"'Well,' he said, 'there's a school round the corner.'

"'Well,' I said, 'you might give me a card of introduction, Mr.
Florance.'

"He gave me the card. I didn't take it to the school. I went straight
back to the theatre with it, and had it sent up to Wunch. It just
said, 'Introducing Mr. Sachs, a young man anxious to get on.' Wunch
took it for a positive order to find me a place. The company was full,
so he threw out one poor devil of a super to make room for me. Curious
thing--old Wunchy got it into his head that I was a _protége_ of
Archibald's, and he always looked after me. What d'ye think about
that?"

"Brilliant!" said Edward Henry. And it was! The simplicity of the
thing was what impressed him. Since winning a scholarship at school by
altering the number of marks opposite his name on a paper lying on the
master's desk, Edward Henry had never achieved advancement by a device
so simple. And he thought: "I am nothing! The Five Towns is nothing!
All that one hears about Americans and the United States is true. As
far as getting on goes, they can make rings round us. Still, I shall
tell him about the Countess and the mule--"

"Yes," continued Mr. Seven Sachs, "Wunch was very kind to me. But he
was pretty well down and out, and he left, and Archibald got a
new stage-manager, and I was promoted to do a bit of assistant
stage-managing. But I got no increase of salary. There were two
women stars in the play Archibald was doing then--'The Forty-Niners.'
Romantic drama, you know! Melodrama you'd call it over here. He never
did any other sort of play. Well, these two women stars were about
equal, and when the curtain fell on the first act they'd both make a
bee line for Archibald to see who'd get to him first and engage him
in talk. They were jealous enough of each other to kill. Anybody could
see that Archibald was frightfully bored, but he couldn't escape. They
got him on both sides, you see, and he just _had_ to talk to 'em, both
at once. I used to be fussing around fixing the properties for the
next act. Well, one night he comes up to me, Archibald does, and he
says:

"'Mr.--what's your name?'

"'Sachs, sir,' I says.

"'You notice when those two ladies come up to me after the first act.
Well, when you see them talking to me, I want you to come right along
and interrupt,' he says.

"'What shall I say, sir?'

"'Tap me on the shoulder and say I'm wanted about something very
urgent. You see?'

"So the next night when those women got hold of him, sure enough I
went up between them and tapped him on the shoulder. 'Mr. Florance,'
I said. 'Something very urgent.' He turned on me and scowled: 'What
is it?' he said, and he looked very angry. It was a bit of the best
acting the old man ever did in his life. It was so good that at first
I thought it was real. He said again louder, 'What is it?' So I said,
'Well, Mr. Florance, the most urgent thing in this theatre is that I
should have an increase of salary!' I guess I licked the stuffing out
of him that time."

Edward Henry gave vent to one of those cordial and violent guffaws
which are a specialty of the humorous side of the Five Towns. And he
said to himself: "I should never have thought of anything as good as
that."

"And did you get it?" he asked.

"The old man said not a word," Mr. Seven Sachs went on in the same
even, tranquil, smiling voice. "But next pay-day I found I'd got
a rise of ten dollars a week. And not only that, but Mr. Florance
offered me a singing part in his new drama, if I could play the
mandolin. I naturally told him I'd played the mandolin all my life. I
went out and bought a mandolin and hired a teacher. He wanted to
teach me the mandolin, but I only wanted him to teach me that one
accompaniment. So I fired him, and practised by myself night and day
for a week. I got through all the rehearsals without ever singing
that song. Cleverest dodging I ever did! On the first night I was
so nervous I could scarcely hold the mandolin. I'd never played the
infernal thing before anybody at all--only up in my bedroom. I struck
the first chord, and found the darned instrument was all out of tune
with the orchestra. So I just pretended to play it, and squawked away
with my song, and never let my fingers touch the strings at all. Old
Florance was waiting for me in the wings. I knew he was going to
fire me. But no! 'Sachs,' he said, 'that accompaniment was the most
delicate piece of playing I ever heard. I congratulate you.' He was
quite serious. Everybody said the same! Luck, eh?"

"I should say so," said Edward Henry, gradually beginning to be
interested in the odyssey of Mr. Seven Sachs. "I remember a funny
thing that happened to me--"

"However," Mr. Sachs swept smoothly along, "that piece was a
failure. And Archibald arranged to take a company to Europe with
'Forty-Niners.' And I was left out! This rattled me, specially after
the way he liked my mandolin-playing. So I went to see him about it in
his dressing-room one night, and I charged around a bit. He did rattle
me! Then I rattled him. I would get an answer out of him. He said:

"'I'm not in the habit of being cross-examined in my own
dressing-room.'

"I didn't care what happened then, so I said:

"'And I'm not in the habit of being treated as you're treating me.'

"All of a sudden he became quite quiet, and patted me on the shoulder.
'You're getting on very well, Sachs,' he said. 'You've only been at it
one year. It's taken me twenty-five years to get where I am.'

"However, I was too angry to stand for that sort of talk. I said to
him:

"'I daresay you're a very great and enviable man, Mr. Florance, but
I propose to save fifteen years on your twenty-five. I'll equal or
better your position in ten years.'

"He shoved me out--just shoved me out of the room.... It was that that
made me turn to play-writing. Florance wrote his own plays sometimes,
but it was only his acting and his face that saved them. And they were
too American. He never did really well outside America except in one
play, and that wasn't his own. Now I was out after money. And I still
am. I wanted to please the largest possible public. So I guessed there
was nothing for it but the universal appeal. I never write a play that
won't appeal to England, Germany, France just as well as to America.
America's big, but it isn't big enough for me.... Well, as I was
saying, soon after that I got a one-act play produced at Hannibal,
Missouri. And the same week there was a company at another theatre
there playing the old man's 'Forty-Niners.' And the next morning the
theatrical critic's article in the Hannibal _Courier-Post_ was headed:
'Rival attractions. Archibald Florance's "Forty-Niners" and new play
by Seven Sachs.' I cut that heading out and sent it to the old man in
London, and I wrote under it, 'See how far I've got in six months.'
When he came back he took me into his company again.... What price
that, eh?"

Edward Henry could only nod his head. The customarily silent Seven
Sachs had little by little subdued him to an admiration as mute as it
was profound.

"Nearly five years after that I got a Christmas card from old
Florance. It had the usual printed wishes--'Merriest possible
Christmas and so on'--but, underneath that, Archibald had written in
pencil, 'You've still five years to go.' That made me roll my sleeves
up, as you may say. Well, a long time after that I was standing at the
corner of Broadway and Forty-fourth Street, and looking at my own name
in electric letters on the Criterion Theatre. First time I'd ever
seen it in electric letters on Broadway. It was the first night of
'Overheard.' Florance was playing at the Hudson Theatre, which is
a bit higher up Forty-fourth Street, and _his_ name was in electric
letters too, but further off Broadway than mine. I strolled up, just
out of idle curiosity, and there the old man was standing in the porch
of the theatre, all alone! 'Hullo, Sachs,' he said, 'I'm glad I've
seen you. It's saved me twenty-five cents.' I asked how. He said, 'I
was just going to send you a telegram of congratulations.' He liked
me, old Archibald did. He still does. But I hadn't done with him.
I went to stay with him at his house on Long Island in the spring.
'Excuse me, Mr. Florance,' I says to him. 'How many companies have
you got on the road?' He said, 'Oh! I haven't got many now. Five, I
think.' 'Well,' I says, 'I've got six here in the United States, two
in England, three in Austria, and one in Italy.' He said, 'Have a
cigar, Sachs; you've got the goods on me!' He was living in that
magnificent house all alone, with a whole regiment of servants!"


V


"Well," said Edward Henry, "you're a great man!"

"No, I'm not," said Mr. Seven Sachs. "But my income is four hundred
thousand dollars a year, and rising. I'm out after the stuff, that's
all."

"I say you are a great man!" Edward Henry repeated. Mr. Sachs's
recital had inspired him. He kept saying to himself: "And I'm a great
man, too. And I'll show 'em."

Mr. Sachs, having delivered himself of his load, had now lapsed
comfortably back into his original silence, and was prepared to
listen. But Edward Henry, somehow, had lost the desire to enlarge on
his own variegated past. He was absorbed in the greater future.

At length he said very distinctly:

"You honestly think I could run a theatre?"

"You were born to run a theatre," said Seven Sachs.

Thrilled, Edward Henry responded:

"Then I'll write to those lawyer people, Slossons, and tell 'em I'll
be around with the brass about eleven to-morrow."

Mr. Sachs rose. A clock had delicately chimed two.

"If ever you come to New York, and I can do anything for you--" said
Mr. Sachs, heartily.

"Thanks," said Edward Henry. They were shaking hands. "I say," Edward
Henry went on. "There's one thing I want to ask you. Why _did_ you
promise to back Rose Euclid and her friends? You must surely have
known--" He threw up his hands.

Mr. Sachs answered:

"I'll be frank with you. It was her cousin that persuaded me into
it--Elsie April."

"Elsie April? Who's she?"

"Oh! You must have seen them about together--her and Rose Euclid!
They're nearly always together."

"I saw her in the restaurant here to-day with a rather jolly
girl--blue hat."

"That's the one. As soon as you've made her acquaintance you'll
understand what I mean," said Mr. Seven Sachs.

"Ah! But I'm not a bachelor like you," Edward Henry smiled archly.

"Well, you'll see when you meet her," said Mr. Sachs. Upon which
enigmatic warning he departed, and was lost in the immense glittering
nocturnal silence of Wilkins's.

Edward Henry sat down to write to Slossons by the 3 A.M. post. But as
he wrote he kept saying to himself: "So Elsie April's her name, is it?
And she actually persuaded Sachs--Sachs--to make a fool of himself!"


CHAPTER VI

LORD WOLDO AND LADY WOLDO


I


The next morning, Joseph, having opened wide the window, informed his
master that the weather was bright and sunny, and Edward Henry arose
with just that pleasant degree of fatigue which persuades one that one
is if anything rather more highly vitalized than usual. He sent for
Mr. Bryany, as for a domestic animal, and Mr. Bryany, ceremoniously
attired, was received by a sort of jolly king who happened to be
trimming his beard in the royal bathroom but who was too good-natured
to keep Mr. Bryany waiting. It is remarkable how the habit of
royalty, having once taken root, will flourish in the minds of quite
unmonarchical persons. Edward Henry first inquired after the health
of Mr. Seven Sachs, and then obtained from Mr. Bryany all remaining
papers and trifles of information concerning the affair of the option.
Whereupon Mr. Bryany, apparently much elated by the honour of an
informal reception, effusively retired. And Edward Henry too was so
elated, and his faith in life so renewed and invigorated, that he said
to himself:

"It might be worth while to shave my beard off, after all!"

As in his electric brougham he drove along muddy and shining
Piccadilly, he admitted that Joseph's account of the weather had been
very accurate. The weather was magnificent; it presented the best
features of summer combined with the salutary pungency of autumn. And
flags were flying over the establishments of tobacconists, soothsayers
and insurance companies in Piccadilly. And the sense of Empire was
in the very air, like an intoxication. And there was no place like
London. When, however, having run through Piccadilly into streets less
superb, he reached the Majestic, it seemed to him that the Majestic
was not a part of London, but a bit of the provinces surrounded by
London. He was very disappointed with the Majestic, and took his
letters from the clerk with careless condescension. In a few days the
Majestic had sunk from being one of "London's huge caravanserais" to
the level of a swollen Turk's Head. So fragile are reputations!

From the Majestic Edward Henry drove back into the regions of Empire,
between Piccadilly and Regent Street, and deigned to call upon his
tailors. A morning-suit which he had commanded being miraculously
finished, he put it on, and was at once not only spectacularly but
morally regenerated. The old suit, though it had cost five guineas
in its time, looked a paltry and a dowdy thing as it lay, flung down
anyhow, on one of Messrs Quayther & Cuthering's cane chairs in the
mirrored cubicle where baronets and even peers showed their braces to
the benign Mr. Cuthering.

"I want to go to Piccadilly Circus now. Stop at the fountain," said
Edward Henry to his chauffeur. He gave the order somewhat defiantly,
because he was a little self-conscious in the new and gleaming suit,
and because he had an absurd idea that the chauffeur might guess that
he, a provincial from the Five Towns, was about to venture into West
End theatrical enterprise and sneer at him accordingly.

But the chauffeur merely touched his cap with an indifferent and lofty
gesture, as if to say:

"Be at ease. I have driven persons more moon-struck even than you.
Human eccentricity has long since ceased to surprise me."

The fountain in Piccadilly Circus was the gayest thing in London. It
mingled the fresh tinkling of water with the odour and flame of autumn
blossoms and the variegated colours of shawled women who passed their
lives on its margin engaged in the commerce of flowers. Edward Henry
bought an aster from a fine bold, red-cheeked, blowsy, dirty wench
with a baby in her arms, and left some change for the baby. He was in
a very tolerant and charitable mood, and could excuse the sins and the
stupidity of all mankind. He reflected forgivingly that Rose Euclid
and her friends had perhaps not displayed an abnormal fatuity in
discussing the name of the theatre before they had got the lease of
the site for it. Had not he himself bought all the option without
having even seen the site? The fact was that he had had no leisure in
his short royal career for such details as seeing the site. He was now
about to make good the omission.

It is a fact that as he turned northwards from Piccadilly Circus, to
the right of the County Fire Office, in order to spy out the land upon
which his theatre was to be built, he hesitated, under the delusion
that all the passers-by were staring at him! He felt just as he might
have felt had he been engaged upon some scheme nefarious. He even went
back and pretended to examine the windows of the County Fire
Office. Then, glancing self-consciously about, he discerned--not
unnaturally--the words "Regent Street" on a sign.

"There you are!" he murmured, with a thrill. "There you are! There's
obviously only one name for that theatre--'The Regent.' It's close to
Regent Street. No other theatre is called 'The Regent.' Nobody
before ever had the idea of 'Regent' as a name for a theatre. 'Muses'
indeed!... 'Intellectual'! ... 'The Regent Theatre'! How well it comes
off the tongue! It's a great name! It'll be the finest name of any
theatre in London! And it took yours truly to think of it!"

Then he smiled privately at his own weakness.... He too, like the
despised Rose, was baptizing the unborn! Still, he continued to dream
of the theatre, and began to picture to himself the ideal theatre.
He discovered that he had quite a number of startling ideas about
theatre-construction, based on his own experience as a playgoer.

When, with new courage, he directed his feet towards the site, upon
which he knew there was an old chapel known as Queen's Glasshouse
Chapel, whose ownership had slipped from the nerveless hand of a dying
sect of dissenters, he could not find the site and he could not see
the chapel. For an instant he was perturbed by a horrid suspicion that
he had been victimized by a gang of swindlers posing as celebrated
persons. Everything was possible in this world and century! None
of the people who had appeared in the transaction had resembled his
previous conceptions of such people! And confidence-thieves always
operated in the grandest hotels! He immediately decided that if the
sequel should prove him to be a simpleton and gull, he would at any
rate be a silent simpleton and gull. He would stoically bear the loss
of two hundred pounds and breathe no word of woe.

But then he remembered with relief that he had genuinely recognized
both Rose Euclid and Seven Sachs; and also that Mr. Bryany, among
other documents, had furnished him with a photograph of the Chapel and
surrounding property. The Chapel therefore existed. He had a plan in
his pocket. He now opened this plan and tried to consult it in the
middle of the street, but his agitation was such that he could not
make out on it which was north and which was south. After he had been
nearly prostrated by a taxi-cab, a policeman came up to him and said,
with all the friendly disdain of a London policeman addressing a
provincial:

"Safer to look at that on the pavement, sir!"

Edward Henry glanced up from the plan.

"I was trying to find the Queen's Glasshouse Chapel, officer," said
he. "Have you ever heard of it?"

(In Bursley, members of the Town Council always flattered members
of the Force by addressing them as "officer"; and Edward Henry knew
exactly the effective intonation.)

"It _was there_, sir," said the policeman, less disdainful, pointing
to a narrow hoarding behind which could be seen the back-walls of high
buildings in Shaftesbury Avenue. At the heaviest burden of this curse
of poverty on the poor, innocent children's world, which even with
their first breath wake the seeds of an early death or disease in
the later recording, primarily through social negligence.

Statistics show that, on average, already half of all children of the
poor before they reach the fifth year of this earthly life Jammerthal
leaves a result of shortages, poor maintenance, etc.

The huge national economic damage this continuing purpose coming
loose and jumps walking in the eyes. All the millions in spending
money and work that these kids have been used, go with her death, for
all irretrievably lost and can never again by the subsequent Thätigkeit
replaced. Does not the human heart at the Lowest friend grieve when
he children of the poor in puddles and Kothaufen after burrow provides
food waste, which the rich for their dogs and cats are bad - or if
he must hear that all the throngs of children in the morning without
breakfast, schools will be taken - or if from desperate fathers or
mothers to read, which themselves and their children a voluntary
sacrifice of death to the death by starvation or deprivation to
escape - or if he must see as a political or business Krisis entire
flocks diligent workers without food for themselves themselves and
for yours on the plaster casts - or if he has observed how the
increase in crimes against life and property usually kept a clandestine
war of the have-nots against the haves rises - or if he must win
the conviction that selfishness and selfishness are the basic pillars
upon which human society is built, etc?

If we are our big cities, our mighty industrial districts through,
we have almost everybody steps opportunity to realize how right
next to, above and below the centers of wealth, splendor, and the
caves of vice and misery hide, as in addition to breaking tables
übersatten stomach and the hunger hohläugige his sufferings silently
acquiesces, and as well in addition to life and high spirits of any
kind, the hopeless privation, either shy and timid in the dirty
corners verkriecht or drabber Thater terrible despair against the
state and society ausbrütet.

A very legitimate Sprüchwort says: » Who does not work, which
should not eat. "But how much to eat that does not work or never worked,
and how much work that can not eat you! What is the inescapable
conclusion that those who work, not just for themselves but also
for the preservation of an entire army of dallier thätig be. We do
not accept that this loafer from the effort or merit of their ancestors
live, as it is precisely the essential life needs no prior
knowledge can be created and, if consumed, is necessary in advance
through the efforts of Mitlebenden must have been produced.

    But this unequal distribution is not just for the material = =, but
also for the = = mental nourishment.

    How many geniuses have talent or the plow of everyday life, because
they are not the good fortune smiled on the cradle, while often
limited to the heads of power chairs or erudition to make wide.

    It is the ideal intellectual work rewards are usually the worst.

    Philosophers and poets are usually born proletarians and reap only
after her death to honor what they have given in life, while hasty
and superficial factory work after the taste of the big pile Even
during the life best worth Consider, for example, the pitiful,
far-fetched situation comedy in our German comedy, which can only
amuse Hohlköpfe yet on our stages, spiritual educational institutions
for which the people should be all the more better products or less
in the background pressing.

    Like the theaters, which are paid entirely by the audience to make
made it our newspapers and weeklies, whose highest ideal is the
subscriber number and form, and which therefore is usually far more
weight to the temporary taste of the audience alongside the interests
of their Head and owners shall, as to the dissemination of truth
and enlightenment.

    A similar accusation can, albeit to a lesser extent, the book
    literature is not to be spared in what sense and degree of male
philosophical conviction fidelity are safe, anywhere against a
mountain of vulgarity, ignorance, slander or Teilnahmlosigkeit have
to fight, while miserable on curiosity Sensation or calculated or
the prejudices of the mass flattering mess to just sure, thousands
of eager readers to find.

What boundless adverse influence these forced subservience under the
currently prevailing spirit or taste or entrenched prejudices of
the reading public must have already had, it should be known, that
there is more than pointing out a need. How often will you do
when you Facit our newspaper and Buchlitteratur to draw on the bitter
word = = Shakespeare recalls: "Truth is a dog, into the hole and
must hinausgepeitscht, while Madame Schoss bitch (ie lie) on fire
and may stink.

"If you look at the question as to the causes of this phenomenon presents
grieve, we believe the answer is in a state to find the exact knowledge
of us by now all the other sciences of success and importance far
superior science = = on the hand is given.

It is that relentless = to fight = = = existence or existence of that
struggle, which since Darwin = = such a great fame has.

He is initially hergenommen from the flora and fauna, where he was
a substantial cause of the transformation and progress, by a rule
only the strong, capable, by one or other characteristic preferences
victory in this struggle or competition on their comrades in this
case. giebt reason to feel sorry for us in this fight is not usually
because of the death fast is because he suffered without a full
consciousness, and because usually only the personal character or
efficiency is crucial.

It is a struggle which of the individuals with the same resources in
the whole of the war or the escape or the competition is held, and
individuals with no prior preference for the other by the protection
of society enjoys.

The abundance and richness of nature in them all evenly ziemlieh
to bid, and it giebt no privileges, which one would forbid, something
to take what the other is allowed.

Only individual character or ability is crucial.

If the animal or its nest cave, however, his property is called, it
must be but his pursuit, in this property at any time by andre
Stronger disrupted or being ousted them.

Quite different but is a result of its social institutions that
fight for the people, What if he comes to the world, all or all
the good seats at the table of life reception will take place and,
if he is unable to birth, wealth, rank, etc. to help, doomed from
the outset, his strength and his life in the service and for the
benefit of those who are in possession and possession by which this
is guaranteed to all, used.

Therefore wins are not always the best, but the rich, not the efficiency,
but the most powerful, not the skills or industrious, but by its
social position Preferred, not the brightest, but the mischief is
not honest, but one who the numerous tools of political and social
exploitation in hand and at the same Schlau Estonians use understands.

Therefore it also, since this relationship from generation to
generation forterbt, can not be otherwise than that in time the
state of extreme social inequality with that, whatever the nature
of contemporary society and an ever increasing mass, and what already
been outlined.

Incidentally, the existence of humans fight two very different
sides, which one must strictly keep apart. One side is the = of
the struggle against human nature = and the free development of
his forces beengende barriers - a fight that he know of the tremendous
success and has led to greater success leads daily.

To take all this success people in greater or lesser extent, in
part or may take part.

The second page presents itself as the struggle of the people =
against = his peers, which, however, as much as a direct or indirect
competition to fight the conditions of existence can be.

This struggle is in the same mass, as the struggle against nature
has become lighter, heavier, has become cruel and relentless.

It is the same so fierce, the greater the progress on substantive areas,
and the more the number of people and the extent of their needs increase.
Through him, selfishness and individualism to become Weltherrschern.
It is a generic competition battle or a war of all against all, with
the death of one of the bread of others, the misfortune of one of
the luck of the other factors. The powerful engine of self-preservation
and the compulsion of social selfishness outweighs everything, a
resistance against the same is not possible, except for severe
punishment of reluctant. For where the welfare or interest of the
individual in question, known as the social selfishness usually
neither compassion or conservation, such as the tiger, when he tears
his victim, and you may or individuals that may not even make the
allegation, as the train or the interest of self-preservation within
a social organism, as it currently exists, his imperious behavior
requires, if he does not bring about the downfall lend or accelerate
wants.

Even the most devoted human friend can join in this commandment of
selfishness not escape without even the biggest risks.

It is somehow a great and general exodus, or a race of fear of
hardship and deprivation of life, without sympathy or help for this
fall to the ground, similar to that infamous great transition of
army on the Berezina, where any suitable only for the rescue was
worried and had to be worried.

Who does not want to be niedergetreten, must come down and the general
field of screams follow: "Who can save itself!

Among those who must be lying, "Nor has the habit of feeling of the
individual for the horrors of such a state after similarly jaded,
as it is against the horrors of a battle of the combatants maintains
numb.

Who does not know the famous book by the American Bellamy = =, where
the same state of human society with a large, comfortably furnished
coach compares what by a smaller number of people occupied, while
the larger majority tense before the coach with all her forces
Thäler over mountains and through swamps and Moraine drags, driven
by the whip of hunger, as the coachman sitting on the pedestal!

I think the parable, like all parables, in relationship for many
wrong or limping, but by and large it must have made the right
choice, as the unprecedented success of the book demonstrates.

The same would not be conceivable, if not a large majority of people
of deep conviction as unnatural and unjust state of today's human
society would be steeped in the book more or less a revelation of
their own, they had been moving feelings.

It is probably not many indicate which seriously dare to deny that such
a state of society of the greatest moral and economic disadvantages,
and is accompanied must be accompanied.

One generate poverty, propertyless, and lack of education and the
majority of crimes against the state and society, while the other
excessive wealth idleness and all kinds of vice in the aftermath
has thus forced the state and municipality will be a costly justice
with all its ugly appendages and an equally costly poor care to
entertain.

On the moral relationship created the general ugly rivalry passions
like envy, hatred, ruthless, greed, hard of heart, mutual pursuit
of addiction instead of mutual love and support.

Everyone thinks and acts only for himself and his own interest,
because he knows that no one else in an emergency to occur to him
or that he's not a whole would find support.

In a properly organized society should be the profit of individuals
at the same time, the profit of the whole and vice versa, and the
same motto should read: "One for all and all for one", while now
in the, usually the opposite occurs.

Our biggest profits through one of the saddest reasons or by the death
of those who we love in life, by it we inherit. The builder and all
workers employed in buildings must be happy if houses burn down or
collapse, the mine workers the same, when hundreds of their
unfortunate comrades in the haze that chokes the mines, the
physician must be happy if there are many diseases giebt, the
lawyer is nurtured by processes, which his fellow peace and steal
property, the judge must be like to have large crime processes, the
officers must be happy if the greatest evil which can affect humanity,
war breaks out, because they have transporting expected, the father
must happy if his offspring will remain as small as possible, though
the real purpose of the family is lost, the landlord or seller must
be mentally drinks will be glad if the alcoholism, and the lost
daughters of the people must be happy if the adultery is increasing
all artisans and producers must be happy if they produce the goods
consumed excessively rapid, a thunderstorm or hail will be in spite
of such natural events arranged by the damage insurance agents or
Glaser liked, how about nearly everything that the damage that the
Change brings You could earn more with a long list of similar
examples continue, but at this plant would not change the result.

This is the demoralizing nature of work itself, which usually is not out
of interest for the common good, but under compulsion of the circumstances
is to be .

Today's worker is a slave as formerly, but with the difference that
it is not the whip of the Lord, but that hunger in the dependence
on driving his employer.

But the employer itself is again a slave - a slave of capital,
competition, fiscal crises, the strike, losses, and often in far
worse situation than he paid workers.

Is it the absurdity of the system already big enough in = = moral
relationship, he is even bigger in = = economic terms, While the
earth so many nutrients forth that all living humanity ample supplies
so that could be used correctly and, by common principles led
management much more could spawn, and during the national wealth
and the accumulation kolossa.

Wealth in individual hands a level never seen before, we must continually
abound amidst those scenes of starvation, deprivation, involuntary
Kranksein and premature death experience, which has already been
outlined.

How hypocritical is the welfare of the state for its citizens, for the
same before the smallest Versündigung against life, property or
health, while he calmly watches or condone that continually by
thousands of hardship, misery and deprivation quickly or slowly
into a voluntary soon, soon involuntary death, or that poor nutrition
education and one to the mind and body crippled youth emporwächst
which time the employment tribunals, the prisons filling or poor
care burden.

We adopt harsh laws against animal cruelty, but it has no eye for
those appalling human cruelty, which allows pale, consumptive girls
or women, or even whole populations, such as the Ore Mountains and
Silesian weavers hand, day and night work for wages which barely
suffice, before the starvation deaths to protect or that thousands
of others to the same end, life and health in very damaging to the
manufacturing sectors sacrifices, or that barefoot, barely clothed
children with rags in the winter cold in the streets of our cities
lost, or that a dozen people in a housing is constrained, barely
sufficed for a single, while another ten or twelve rooms, and more
on its own at its disposal, or that the homes of the poor are often
worse than the dog kennels and horse stables of the wealthy, or
that not many left, as their nights outdoors zuzubringen, at the
risk, but to be prosecuted and punished, while for example in Berlin
40000 apartments are empty, or that there are people giebt arising
from hunger and food concerns quickly or slowly to basically go
while the mere waste of the table of the rich or a small percent
of their abundance, such avoidance could uswusw If you are in
mountain areas should see how fat Wives of panting and sweaty people
with the highest risk to their lives and health on high vantage
points hinaufschleppen leave just one miserable wages money's sake,
it should be with hatred against a social order will be fulfilled,
which the Mammon God allowed his miserable money slaves as slaves
to the lowest and services for blind subservience to his bid to
force, as the Lord about former slaves or serfs were allowed to thun.

I repeat that there is generally only a few will give what these
naked Thatsacheu to deny or related condition such as a dare to defend.
It recognizes the social damage and absurdities, as such, as it
already shows that the resultant literature with numerous improvement
proposals become almost incalculable.

But - as it maintains these proposals compared to reply - the condition
can not be amended.

It has always been so and will always be and remain. Inequality is a
necessary attribute of human society.

At all times it has nobility and stalls, rich and poor, and the
large mass is only to work and obeying been present.

Reason and fairness in social relationships are always ideals remained,
and all social idealists, Plato with his common sense at the head
of state, have in practice always shamefully suffered shipwreck. If
we still all possessions evenly distributed, it would very soon the
old inequality there. Also would like an easy calculation yields that
such a general distribution of the property to individuals is relatively
very low profit involved. It failed not on the big Wohlthaten the
competition to remember what the real spur of the work and progress
and what constitutes ways it has brought to that today by the
fairness of the consumption products to more or less of production,
while the earlier general opinion was that the inverse relationship
that alone was right or possible.

But how to meet these objections, what should be helped? This
question is so difficult to answer, so far as all the numerous
attempts and proposals to resolve the social question have failed.
This may, however, the friend does not deter people, again and again
by a new remedy to think. It must be helped, and - what is the
main thing - it = can = help. It = must = be helped, if you
do not want to risk that any political upheaval or disturbance of the
present (and in such there is never yes) of serious social shocks will
be accompanied. A general feeling of discomfort or social injustice,
especially in the lower strata of the population, the
majority usurps the people and a future revolution will not, more,
as in the first and second French Revolution, before the "ownership"
may be maintained. To clear signs of this in the depths of the folk
soul tiger-like fermenting passions and desires are so lacking in any
way, the same will be located to make air time without having to be
in a position, by andres Gewaltmassregeln something to achieve, as
the education of martyrs and fanatics. The Nihilist in Russia, the
Communards in France, the Social Democrats in Germany, the FeNi
who Irredentisten, the dynamite Erich, of his head more and more
formally collected, and making school anarchism are somehow only
the birds or storm warning signals of a coming revolution, and the
State, or State handlebars, they wanted to ignore, would be the
same ships which his ship before the storm umflatternden Seemöven
not met or more than tracking the same objects, because as Warner
treated.

Because "who spends his time, hunting to make the gulls will be
surprised by the storm and damage to lives and property."

(Radenhausen.) Should there but also what is not would be impossible
to succeed, by any attempt to Gewaltmassregeln constant social
upheaval to press, but it would ensure that the reported
dissatisfaction and discomfort from the lap of the company not only
has not been removed, but only propagated or increased. It would,
over time a kind of secret war between the propertied and the
non-propertied classes of the society, which the peace and happiness
of the community would not alter less than an open war. For example,
when one learns that in 1864 in England, three thousand persons,
an annual income of about 500 million marks, or more than the total
annual income of all crop workers from across England and Wales,
divided among themselves, this is a lasting peace on the social
ground of such a mismatch is unlikely to be possible.

Fortunately, there is no shortage of the possibility of this state to
meet the impending storm or not the outbreak come to be without
you would have needed to violent means to grasp, through a number
of peaceful reforms, which, on the floor of the existing social
order below, then slowly and gradually to a better state of things
hinüberleiten - provided that it succeeds, the majority of the
people of the Wohlthätigkeit and need for such measures to convince.

We see this self-evident from the radical or radical solution to the
social question, as it requires = = communism.

Several of her menials
simultaneously appeared out of invisibility, and one of them hurried
obsequiously towards him.

"Bring me a glass of water and a peerage," said Edward Henry.

"I beg pardon, sir. A glass of water and--"

"A peerage. P double e, r, a, g, e."

"I beg your pardon, sir. I didn't catch. Which peerage, sir? We have
several."

"All of them."

In a hundred seconds, the last menial having thanked him for kindly
taking the glass and the pile of books, Edward Henry was sipping water
and studying peerages. In two hundred seconds he was off again. A
menial opened the swing-doors of the smoking-room for him and bowed.
The menial of the lift bowed, wafted him downwards and bowed. The
infant menial produced his hat and stick and bowed. The old and
medalled menial summoned his brougham with a frown at the chauffeur
and a smile at Edward Henry, bowed, opened the door of the brougham,
helped Edward Henry in, bowed, and shut the door.

"Where to, sir?"

"262 Eaton Square," said Edward Henry.

"Thank you, sir," said the aged menial, and repeated in a curt and
peremptory voice to the chauffeur, "262 Eaton Square!" Lastly he
touched his cap.

And Edward Henry swiftly left the precincts of the headquarters of
political democracy in London.


V


As he came within striking distance of 262 Eaton Square he had the
advantage of an unusual and brilliant spectacle.

Lord Woldo was one of the richest human beings in England--and
incidentally he was very human. If he had been in a position to
realize all his assets and go to America with the ready money, his
wealth was such that even amid the luxurious society of Pittsburg he
could have cut quite a figure for some time. He owned a great deal of
the land between Oxford Street and Regent Street, and again a number
of the valuable squares north of Oxford Street were his, and as for
Edgware Road--just as auctioneers advertise a couple of miles of
trout-stream or salmon-river as a pleasing adjunct to a country
estate, so, had Lord Woldo's estate come under the hammer, a couple of
miles of Edgware Road might have been advertised as among its charms.
Lord Woldo owned four theatres, and to each theatre he had his
private entrance and in each theatre his private box, over which the
management had no sway. The Woldos in their leases had always insisted
on this.

He never built in London; his business was to let land for others
to build upon, the condition being that what others built should
ultimately belong to him. Thousands of people in London were only
too delighted to build on these terms; he could pick and choose
his builders. (The astute Edward Henry himself, for example, wanted
furiously to build for him, and was angry because obstacles stood in
the path of his desire.) It was constantly happening that under legal
agreements some fine erection put up by another hand came into the
absolute possession of Lord Waldo without one halfpenny of expense to
Lord Woldo. Now and then a whole street would thus tumble all complete
into his hands. The system, most agreeable for Lord Woldo and about a
dozen other landlords in London, was called the leasehold system; and
when Lord Woldo became the proprietor of some bricks and mortar that
had cost him nothing, it was said that one of Lord Woldo's leases had
"fallen in," and everybody was quite satisfied by this phrase.

In the provinces, besides castles, forests and moors, Lord Woldo owned
many acres of land under which was coal, and he allowed enterprising
persons to dig deep for this coal, and often explode themselves
to death in the adventure, on the understanding that they paid him
sixpence for every ton of coal brought to the surface, whether they
made any profit on it or not. This arrangement was called "mining
rights," another phrase that apparently satisfied everybody.

It might be thought that Lord Woldo was, as they say, on velvet.
But the velvet, if it could be so described, was not of so rich and
comfortable a pile after all. For Lord Woldo's situation involved many
and heavy responsibilities and was surrounded by grave dangers. He
was the representative of an old order going down in the unforeseeable
welter of twentieth-century politics. Numbers of thoughtful students
of English conditions spent much of their time in wondering what would
happen one day to the Lord Woldos of England. And when a really great
strike came, and a dozen ex-artisans met in a private room of a West
End hotel, and decided, without consulting Lord Woldo or the Prime
Minister or anybody, that the commerce of the country should be
brought to a standstill, these thoughtful students perceived that even
Lord Woldo's situation was no more secure than other people's; in fact
that it was rather less so.

There could be no doubt that the circumstances of Lord Woldo furnished
him with food for thought--and very indigestible food too.... Why, at
least one hundred sprightly female creatures were being brought up in
the hope of marrying him. And they would all besiege him, and he could
only marry one of them--at once!

Now as Edward Henry stopped as near to No. 262 as the presence of
a waiting two-horse carriage permitted, he saw a grey-haired and
blue-cloaked woman solemnly descending the steps of the portico of
No. 262. She was followed by another similar woman, and watched by a
butler and a footman at the summit of the steps and by a footman
on the pavement and by the coachman on the box of the carriage. She
carried a thick and lovely white shawl, and in this shawl was Lord
Woldo and all his many and heavy responsibilities. It was his fancy
to take the air thus, in the arms of a woman. He allowed himself to be
lifted into the open carriage, and the door of the carriage was shut;
and off went the two ancient horses, slowly, and the two adult fat men
and the two mature spinsters, and the vehicle weighing about a ton;
and Lord Woldo's morning promenade had begun.

"Follow that!" said Edward Henry to the chauffeur and nipped into his
brougham again. Nobody had told him that the being in the shawl was
Lord Woldo, but he was sure that it must be so.

In twenty minutes he saw Lord Woldo being carried to and fro amid the
groves of Hyde Park (one of the few bits of London earth that did not
belong to him or to his more or less distant connections) while the
carriage waited. Once Lord Woldo sat on a chair, but the chief nurse's
lap was between him and the chair-seat. Both nurses chattered to him
in Kensingtonian accents, but he offered no replies.

"Go back to 262," said Edward Henry to his chauffeur.

Arrived again in Eaton Square, he did not give himself time to be
imposed upon by the grandiosity of the square in general, nor of No.
262 in particular. He just ran up the steps and rang the visitors'
bell.

"After all," he said to himself as he waited, "these houses aren't
even semi-detached! They're just houses in a row, and I bet every one
of 'em can hear the piano next door!"

The butler whom he had previously caught sight of opened the great
portal.

"I want to see Lady Woldo."

"Her ladyship--" began the formidable official.

"Now, look here, my man," said Edward Henry, rather in desperation, "I
must see Lady Woldo instantly. It's about the baby--"

"About his lordship?"

"Yes. And look lively, please."

He stepped into the sombre and sumptuous hall.

"Well," he reflected, "I _am_ going it--no mistake!"


VI


He was in a large back drawing-room, of which the window, looking
north, was in rich stained glass. "No doubt because they're ashamed of
the view," he said to himself. The size of the chimneypiece impressed
him, and also its rich carving. "But what an old-fashioned grate!" he
said to himself. "They need gilt radiators here." The doorway was a
marvel of ornate sculpture, and he liked it. He liked, too, the
effect of the oil-paintings--mainly portraits--on the walls, and the
immensity of the brass fender, and the rugs, and the leather-work of
the chairs. But there could be no question that the room was too dark
for the taste of any householder clever enough to know the difference
between a house and a church.

There was a plunging noise at the door behind him.

"What's amiss?" he heard a woman's voice. And as he heard it he
thrilled with sympathetic vibrations. It was not a North Staffordshire
voice, but it was a South Yorkshire voice, which is almost the same
thing. It seemed to him to be the first un-Kensingtonian voice to
soothe his ear since he had left the Five Towns. Moreover, nobody born
south of the Trent would have said, "What's amiss?" A southerner
would have said, "What's the matter?" Or, more probably, "What's the
mattah?"

He turned and saw a breathless and very beautiful woman, of about
twenty-nine or thirty, clothed in black, and she was in the act
of removing from her lovely head what looked like a length of red
flannel. He noticed, too, simultaneously, that she was suffering
from a heavy cold. A majestic footman behind her closed the door and
disappeared.

"Are you Lady Woldo?" Edward Henry asked.

"Yes," she said. "What's this about my baby?"

"I've just seen him in Hyde Park," said Edward Henry. "And I observed
that a rash had broken out all over his face."

"I know that," she replied. "It began this morning, all of a sudden
like. But what of it? I was rather alarmed myself, as it's the first
rash he's had and he's the first baby I've had--and he'll be the last
too. But everybody said it was nothing. He's never been out without
me before, but I had such a cold. Now you don't mean to tell me that
you've come down specially from Hyde Park to inform me about that
rash. I'm not such a simpleton as all that." She spoke in one long
breath.

"I'm sure you're not," said he. "But we've had a good deal of rash in
our family, and it just happens that I've got a remedy--a good sound
north-country remedy--and it struck me you might like to know of it.
So if you like I'll telegraph to my missis for the recipe. Here's my
card."

She read his name, title and address.

"Well," she said, "it's very kind of you, I'm sure, Mr. Machin. I
knew you must come from up there the moment ye spoke. It does one
good above a bit to hear a plain north-country voice after all this
fal-lalling."

She blew her lovely nose.

"Doesn't it!" Edward Henry agreed. "That was just what I thought when
I heard you say 'Bless us!' Do you know, I've been in London only a
two-three days, and I assure you I was beginning to feel lonely for a
bit of the Midland accent!"

"Yes," she said, "London's lonely!" And sighed.

"My eldest was bitten by a dog the other day," he went on, in the vein
of gossip.

"Oh, don't!" she protested.

"Yes. Gave us a lot of anxiety. All right now! You might like to
know that cyanide gauze is a good thing to put on a wound--supposing
anything should happen to yours--"

"Oh, don't!" she protested. "I do hope and pray Robert will never be
bitten by a dog. Was it a big dog?"

"Fair," said Edward Henry. "So his name's Robert! So's my eldest's!"

"Really now! They wanted him to be called Robert Philip Stephen
Darrand Patrick. But I wouldn't have it. He's just Robert. I did have
my own way _there_! You know he was born six months after his father's
death."

"And I suppose he's ten months now?"

"No. Only six."

"Great Scott! He's big!" said Edward Henry.

"Well," said she, "he is. I am, you see."

"Now, Lady Woldo," said Edward Henry in a new tone, "as we're both
from the same part of the country I want to be perfectly straight and
above-board with you. It's quite true--all that about the rash. And I
did think you'd like to know. But that's not really what I came to see
you about. You understand, not knowing you, I fancied there might be
some difficulty in getting at you--"

"Oh! no!" she said simply. "Everybody gets at me."

"Well, I didn't know, you see. So I just mentioned the baby to begin
with, like!"

"I hope you're not after money," she said, almost plaintively.

"I'm not," he said. "You can ask anybody in Bursley or Hanbridge
whether I'm the sort of man to go out on the cadge."

"I once was in the chorus in a panto at Hanbridge," she said. "She
said. "So no enmity, and tell ...

Why do we have today is a holiday orgies with smoke and our lovable
face, why patterns of our Second ugly, as if they were the elders
would be nice - why?

"" Well, my Döchting that it was so ...

But what is really nice happens. Also in Graventhin whom I meet?
Ironically the Seckersdorf. "" Ah ...

"The two women cried there amazed. Then they asked curious confused:
"So really, Seckersdorf?

Wanted to stay here, he wanted to Tromitten themselves? What he saw
from civil? Was he still the same quiet and clumsy?

Remarked to him his future wealth?

Did he mention Gertrude? "" Still! Quiet! Still ... "cried the
head forester in the Gefrage. "He is a nice decent guy, which seems
to have learned. Whether he hierbleibt is still uncertain. Each
afforest If he wants to leave and asked me to write the story to make.
That raises what from. And yes, we need an extra subsidy as always!
"Maggie looked thoughtfully at the lamp. When they sat so
still, her face was an expression clever, cold hardness that is
too soft, rosy, the Flemish-like shapes formed a striking contrast.
"He probably comes from?" She asked. "That would be a guess, then, when
their so outraged by it and the poor were Gertrud. What a terrible
unlucky but Leutchen gehabt! If one thinks that he is half a year
after the wedding of Gertrude stein heir of a rich man was. "" Will be,
Maggie, "Ms. Perl improved. »By Trude's but was not. He had not even
the allowance. And ... "" I am not the deposit, "was the head
forester briefly. "And the Laukischker want to 'have a child perfectly.
That was because yet another lot, as it 's infantry lieutenant,
finally, when his uncle, perhaps a minimum would have been away. ""
So? "Asked Maggie sit up. "I think it was called then, the uncle
would have received nothing on when you made the nominations." "Oh!"
The head forester winced with the crooked, gray brows, a sign that he
was not comfortable. "What do you know! You were still half a child!
The Gertrude's understanding has been conceived and does not repenting.
The Kurowski is just not my swarm, but the child's but like a
princess. "The two women were silent on." Or you can find some not?
"Cried the head forester violently." Quiet, Dad's, "Maggie said, and
laid their soft hand on his bony. "If not, we can not change. But
all in all, the Seckersdorf wär 'me rather than Schwager, especially
now that he is so rich. "The head forester laughed." If you only have
a little brains, girl, and not just always the big mouth ... but you
do it. It's time. Twenty-four is a very nice figure for a girl.
"" Right you, "he agreed thoughtfully to Maggie. »Are we the cause
times superior. If he comes, playing 'I gave him the second edition
Gertrud before. What I lack in beauty, geb 'ich in meekness, and
history will make itself. "The head forester, it looked suspicious
and dissatisfied to."

You Be sit anyway, with all your cleverness, "he said. »By Gertrud
it was different.

Then this and that. Incidentally, the Seckersdorf in Waldlack with
Kurowskis been together.

He told the so-incidentally, said the Trude looks miserable.

If I'm just better with the guy, which could Kurowski!

It is as cut off from the child.

Every tourist knows more. "He stroked the anxious thick hair of his
second wave."

That is it all better, papa, "comforted the girl." Let us also not break
the head.

Tell dear, how was it otherwise in Graventhin? Again great dinner?
And badly served? "The head forester told of the adventures of three
days. He ordered Greetings, neighbors reported, and reported visits
to a little gossip. In Waldlack was again gejeut been, twenty of
the Mark Point.

The Althöfer stayed still, recently had another big breakfast of
champagne.

How was it possible that the people there happy mitzechten? Maggie
interjected that it would be wiser to what they could do, they
only wish it would still be a single ball since before the collapse,
because it would be so kind anywhere.

And so the conversation went on. The heavy rain poured, the wind howled.
Miss Perl stringently, Hagedorn and his daughter smoked and played with
the dogs.

Since gritted out on the gravel road a car. The two Teckel lifted their
heads. The head forester jumped on. "Children ... Visit! In this
weather! And my slippers. Receive it! "But even before he could leave
the room, together with the girls, the door opened, pushed
blondköpfige two boys inside, rushed to him and attached themselves
to him."

Grandpa! Grandpa! Here we go. Aunt Maggie ... Pearls, "The Chief
Forester lifted one after the other in the amount taken aback."

Where will ye forth, guys, and alone?

"They were able to stay and answer the winselnden Teckel welcome
because their mother, Gertrude of Kurowski, came slowly herein.

"Gertrud ... Du? That's heavenly! Trude ... in this weather! "The two
sisters were together in the arms. The older her head pressed firmly
against the neck of the younger. Then she kissed the lady's father and
Perl. All three of them stood and looked at them expectantly. They
rarely came home, since her father and her husband had a major
dispute and had not visited each other.

For months, she was not there. Now they stood still, and with lowered
head there. She was very slim, half a head taller than the sister. From
a very regular face looked beautiful gray, soft eyes and sad shy
around him.

The head wore a thick knot shimmering, white blond hair.

A glimpse of the shy nobility, in the forms of extreme simplicity loves
to wrap, it came from.

Their dark blue Tuchkleid closed nearly to the lean, beautiful body
and crackled when she moved. "How pale you are, Gertrude! Is something
happening? "She nodded. »Bring the kids away, yes? I have given you
much to say. "Ms. Perl, the boys in the dining room.

The head forester had become red.

His restless eyes searched the daughter. "I hope you will come
to me not ..." Gertrude made a small motion with his hand, and he
was silent, but she mustered with suspicious dark eyes. Maggie took
her hanging hand and kissed it.

"Yes, Dad," said Gertrude.

"You have me with the children when you reserve.

Kurt took me away. He has done many times, but this time did I take
him at his word. I can no longer remain with him. "" So ... you can
no longer stay with him?

And why does it not? Has probably one of your horrendous Schneider bills
not want to pay?

Or not a wagon, where, or a similar crime committed? No, my child, I
am not God knows Kurowski green.

But my daughter that he so easily from house and yard runs, says: I can
not stay with him ... that's not for me!

"He ran back and forth. "What was happening?"

Rumbled and he finally did before it.

She wept.

"Heul 'not ... narrative ', "he said impatiently. Then she took
them into Maggie's arms." If our Trude so important as now, then
what happens to Big.

They are not torturing, Dad.

My poor, poor Trude! "They stroked the delicate face and sister
sat in the armchair. »See it anyway. Is that humanly possible? Are
you sick? What has he done to you, darling? No, say 'no way that we
gradually get out and lean wines - wines that will do you good.
"The young woman obediently put his head on the back and made the
langbewimperten eyes.

A quiet schauerndes shrugging their shoulders lifted.

"Let me stay here ... let me stay here. Dad, I'm your elders ...
thou hast loved me ... let me stay here! "The head forester sip
around. Then all were silent.

The wind howled as before, the lamp hummed, and in the adjoining
room jauchzten the boys and kläfften the dogs.

"What has he done to you?" Asked the father and laid his big hand on
the small head of white blonde daughter. The set up and clings
to his arm. "From day to day, it is worse. I have patiently kept
silent.

Finally I thought well, I would be so bad, so ugly and so unfit, as
he always says, and there would be 'nothing more now to change.

I have almost no word can speak, but fortgelaufen but I would not. I
know ... the children ... and the scandal, but yesterday he accused
me that I had him shamelessly betrayed him again and wanted to cheat.

Da hab 'ich mir's about over night, had taken the children and I
am after the station, according to Winge gone. "" Three hours!

In this weather, "cursed the head forester." The boys are hardy and easy
to walk. Then, in the stone frieze, I found this wagon. "Maggie looked
dark and tiefatmend to the sister. The head forester shook itself.
He could not bear long uneasy things. He pushed them away. "We talk
more about it tomorrow," he said. "The thing werd 'ich wieder
einrenken.

You should be your right, to leave thee. Nehm Provisional 'I get that
you have your old father a few days ... «Gertrude directed to fearful.
Maggie sat down to her on the back side of the chair and put his arm
around her shoulders. "... a few days, tell me, "went the old man
continued," visiting how's heard.

And then we will see further.

Does he know that you're here? "" I have a letter left behind. ""
Well, because we have to expect that he is here with fanfare and
anrückt you and the boys back. "" Believe "is not," said Gertrud .

"He will be glad that he alone remains ...

Provisional ... to ... "" gosh, "murmured the head forester.

Maggie sprayed before indignation about the resistance of the Father."
Well, "said the then einlenkend, 'we'll see. Reg 'now does not
occur. And now ... Guys, come in! "* * * * * The boys at the
Miss Perl großmütterliche claims made were in the former children's
cot by the mother and aunt and had before jubilation and excitement
not sleep.

Gertrud and Maggie, after tortured, impersonal conversations are
now wanted to go to rest, came again to them.

The mother kissed passionately and she began to weep bitterly. Maggie
pulled her away. "Not yet, Trude, Old! At the children's faces will
be no tears fall. Come, we are now for us, because you can pretty
ausklagen. "They stepped into the spacious balcony room, which they
have lived together many years ago did.

Gertrud old bed was in the same corner in which it formerly had
stood, prepared for them. Somewhat astonished the young woman looked
around and stopped crying. "You, what have you with our beautiful
desk made?" She asked. " The thrown out junk, "said Maggie happily.
»The Kattungardinen and Mullvorhänge the Makartsträuße, na alles. Only
here, the puffs, your brilliant idea, the very own padded Bierfäßchen,
they are still there, but also follow as soon as I did what better.

There is this famous old cabinet admitted, as the chair, echt Empire,
and in thy bed of tapestry. Pretty, eh? "" No, "said Gertrud vigorously.
"Previously it was a pretty, airy nest with all the innocent
Mädchenausputz, now comes to me like an empty Trödelbude before.
Where is the desk? "" All gone. When I - when's it? - February or March
last with you, and your new, wonderful facility Bedrooms saw - it
is simply wonderful, as ever Laukischken everything, I do not know
how you'll endure it - yes, that is, as I have since came home and
here the frills that interrupts hab 'I cried with rage, and all
cheap and fake demolished.

"Gertrud, she saw from large eyes." envy, Maggie? "she asked. "Dear God!"
"Jealous of you, Trude? No. But that is what it may have, and that
I do not have, which annoys me. And until I'm so far, I prefer bare
and simple living. "Gertrude shook her head." You know, "said Maggie
vividly," not underestimate what you want to give up so easily.

It depends more out than you think.

Look, I bet you already miss your maid, you can not undo the waist,
not the boots off, and God knows what else. "" I will make everything
easy to learn, "said Gertrud pleading.

And today you are helping me a bit anyway, is not it?

"Maggie stormily they hugged and stood with her hands trembling with.

When she gorgeous hair sparked the weißschimmernd on the chair came
down, put them into the face and began to cry. And Gertrude turned
and wept with spasmodic. And then they sat on one of the narrow beds
and girls were umschlungen, called with the old-nicknamed
nurseries and said that now it would be like the past. Then
Maggie went on. "The villain, the villain! What has he done to you?
Where is your golden, heavenly beauty there? You have wrinkles ... da
... and da ... and gray and have you become lean ... and yet only
twenty-eight years, "Gertrude smiled sadly. "That is also resistant
to anger that I would be so ugly," she said. "To me it's
irrelevant, that is, no -" She wept bitterly again. "Ah, but
you're still the fairest of all," Maggie comforted. "And so you lack
nothing but a little luck, my poor, poor Trude. What do we? Say you out
if you like, my dear heart.

"But Gertrude was not well himself. When she sued her husband had
weakened them right from the indictment. They shocked when a hard
floor debate, and was looking for a milder expression, even if they
have something to gruff had called. But in these rates was touching
aborted their entire history. Maggie saw it formally adopted the
brother with his mocking Lebemannsgesicht, heard his cruel words
against the poor, tender woman was as defenseless. They shook with
helpless sister under the silken ceiling, in the spirit when they
imagined him as he is hot and driving offense occurred in the bedroom,
and she screamed, as Gertrud muttered something about violence.
"Beaten? ... You? "No. But if I do not always have been quiet ... ""
Trude, why did not you long fortgelaufen? "They remained silent.
It was cold the tops of their mantle of solid powder to the shoulders
and looked with her large, sad eyes so helpless at that, before
Maggie heart swelled grief and indignation.

"Come to bed," she said. "You're cold. I will stay with you sit and take
your hand, my poor child. Do you know how you tatst sooner if I had
read ghost story and could not sleep. Come, come .... "And she withdrew
from the sister and took them with maternal care beds. Gertrud had
dropped everything and said that would do well. If only they should
remain! When Maggie was their most since they had no fear. Maggie
expanded the magnificent, lush body lean. "It should also be
someone dare you to come too close. For you, I do everything I keep
left when I did care for me.

"Gertrud was directed at them and looked questioningly. »Why do you
say so what?"

"Because it is true, Trude. Times now I can not do otherwise. I must
always think first of myself and what I am most comfortable and
best approach.

But then you, darling. You're the only thing I totally love. From childhood
on. Maybe because you're so different. So fragile and so beautiful
and good. "" Oh, Maggie, I am nothing, as too much of the world,
"cried the young woman. Maggie wiped the lamp and sat down to her."
Well, we want to talk about reasonable times, child! "she said. "Be
still, just tell me how to do it now with a time has come to the doors."
From the sobbing and the incomprehensible words fully sounded out a
name: "Seckersdorf." Maggie went along. »Do you still love him?"
She asked quietly. "God forbid! No, no, no, "said Gertrud violently.
"But we met recently in Waldlack together. I had no idea that he
is here. And we sat at table together. "" And since he has the court
made thee? "" Oh, no. We have just viewed. But, Maggie, the heart
was to me quite hard. The loving, peaceful, blue eyes. So sad
and reproachful. "" And what he said? "" We have a little talk, but
Kurt claimed afterwards that I had made myself ridiculous, and
everyone would see that I shall have like a ... a ... I've used it
maybe also viewed affectionately. But really not intentional. I'd
rather be dead than do that. "" And Kurt made your home a scene? "" Oh,
he was immeasurably. I can understand all the verbal abuse did
not happen again. And he chased me away. Oh, Maggie, you've no idea
how awful it is to be married. "" But, but, "said Maggie.

"I can tell you if you are not old would, or would be very rich and
could live as you wanted, I would be the last person to ans dächte
marriages. BTW with your amiable husband möcht "I still finished
better than you, my poor child. Did you get the implication as well
put up?" No, "said Gertrude. "It was too much. I had a little more
courage. And you know it is nonsense and wrong, but I was not so
terrible anxiety because I know that 'he' is back again. And
now as the torture was continued, because ... "A long silence was.
Maggie said everything's sister faltering failed. She thought at
the time in which Gertrud here night after night and cried for their
bold questions had admitted that they were before her husband fear
that they prefer to die before the wedding wishes. You, with her
sixteen years, was the most interesting occurred, but eventually
self-evident.

The unhappy love for the blond lieutenant Seckersdorf from home
much of the speech, had a beautiful sister with particular splendor
umkleidet.

The fact that nothing was then that the rich, spoiled, elegant
Laukischker Kurowski Gertrud came and tears among thousands it took
the teenager had her mind very much, and if they are later seen
the sister, surrounded by luxury, then it was just everything a
piece of the novel was that they had zurechtgebaut in which the
beautiful, weißhaarige Gertrud and her brunette, powerful young man
needs all the girls were good romance.

How long did it now no more illusions about the real situation of
things!

How long they knew that Gertrude deeply unfortunate that her life
had failed, that is a sin, as they are in this marriage with the
male Kurowski hineingeredet had.

But what was this hindsight speeches have been possible? They even
knew that they would not for a moment Kurowski between the rich
and the poor lieutenant was Seckersdorf have fluctuated, because
everything about "love" they would also always first of all strive
for a position.

But Gertrude, the honest, soft, dear Gertrud needy who have never
expected, as was characterized by outer gloss can bribe? "Trude, why
did you just put him? You had Seckersdorf but love, "she asked after
a long silence.

Gertrude laid her head on her lap. »Oh dear child, everything came
so fast.

And of course Hans gave me. Because I wanted to show him ... But these
are old, old stories.

We poor women learn the truth so only know when we get married.
"Maggie shook her head and stroked the hair of his sister.

They knew the reality, even without much experience to have, she knew
she would have with all certainly different part. "Tell me, Gertrude,"
the question shot through her head, "really knew Kurt from
Seckersdorf thing? "" Sure. Even before we get engaged. Incidentally,
I believe that all the world knew it. And then, in the first few days
after our wedding, I thought it would be him guilty of anything, anything
to confess, every encounter, every word I ever with Hans ...
Seckersdorf had spoken with. "" Alas, alas! "said Maggie. "That hätt
'I've never done that.

What is the way it did?

"" Oh, no, "said Gertrude. "He knows that I'm sincere." "So? And the
appearance of recently?

Tell me, dear heart, tell me everything what you've told him, I
think what you had to tell.

I would like to help you, but then I also know how to do
Seckersdorf came - as it auseinandergingt. "Then they heard the
harmless innocent love story, which eight years ago between Hans and
Gertrud Hagedorn Seckersdorf had played so harmless, that they would
have been banal, without Gertrud as hero.

Maggie saw them clearly in front of him, in the first luminous beauty
of youth, which they switch from the English mother had inherited.
completed in the regular soft shapes, colors from a spell, which
seemed almost supernatural and to the lush, white blonde hair, which
his peers in the world is not found.

The World!

Maggie had to smile. The whole little world of their surroundings
wandered for a moment in their thoughts over.

Landowner, lieutenants, again landowner, old - young, confusingly
similar. What cared she now? But Gertrud story was the whole charm of
the girls currently alive.

Dance companies, picnics, theater games, exchange glances and quietly
hands pressures.
In the course of years he had airily invited hundreds
of callers to crack an egg with him--the joke was one of his
favourites--but nobody had ever ventured to accept the invitation.

"Chung," he said weakly, "lay a cover for the Alderman."

Edward Henry sat down quite close to Sir John. He could discern all
the details of Sir John's face and costume. The tremendous celebrity
was wearing a lounge-suit somewhat like his own, but instead of the
coat he had a blue dressing-jacket with crimson facings; the sleeves
ended in rather long wristbands, which were unfastened, the opal
cuff-links drooping each from a single hole. Perhaps for the first
time in his life Edward Henry intimately understood what idiosyncratic
elegance was. He could almost feel the emanating personality of Sir
John Pilgrim, and he was intimidated by it; he was intimidated by
its hardness, its harshness, its terrific egotism, its utterly brazen
quality. Sir John's glance was the most purely arrogant that Edward
Henry had ever encountered. It knew no reticence. And Edward Henry
thought: "When this chap dies he'll want to die in public, with the
reporters round his bed and a private secretary taking down messages."

"This is rather a lark," said Sir John, recovering.

"It is," said Edward Henry, who now felicitously perceived that a lark
it indeed was, and ought to be treated as such. "It shall be a lark!"
he said to himself.

Sir John dictated a letter to Miss Taft, and before the letter was
finished the grinning Chung had laid a place for Edward Henry, and
Snip had inspected him and passed him for one of the right sort.

"Had I said that this is rather a lark?" Sir John inquired, the letter
accomplished.

"I forget," said Edward Henry.

"Because I don't like to say the same thing twice over if I can help
it. It _is_ a lark though, isn't it?"

"Undoubtedly," said Edward Henry, decapitating an egg. "I only hope
that I'm not interrupting you."

"Not in the least," said Sir John. "Breakfast is my sole free time. In
another half hour I assure you I shall be attending to three or four
things at once." He leant over towards Edward Henry. "But between you
and me, Alderman, quite privately, if it isn't a rude question, what
did you come for?"

"Well," said Edward Henry, "as I wrote on my card, I'm the sole
proprietor of the Regent Theatre--"

"But there is no Regent Theatre," Sir John interrupted him.

"No. Not strictly. But there will be. It's in course of construction.
We're up to the first floor."

"Dear me! A suburban theatre, no doubt?"

"Do you mean to say, Sir John," cried Edward Henry, "that you haven't
noticed it? It's within a few yards of Piccadilly Circus."

"Really!" said Sir John. "You see my theatre is in Lower Regent Street
and I never go to Piccadilly Circus. I make a point of not going
to Piccadilly Circus. Miss Taft, how long is it since I went to
Piccadilly Circus? Forgive me, young woman, I was forgetting--you
aren't old enough to remember. Well, never mind details.... And what
is there remarkable about the Regent Theatre, Alderman?"

"I intend it to be a theatre of the highest class, Sir John," said
Edward Henry. "Nothing but the very best will be seen on its boards."

"That's not remarkable, Alderman. We're all like that. Haven't you
noticed it?"

"Then secondly," said Edward Henry, "I am the sole proprietor. I
have no financial backers, no mortgages, no partners. I have made no
contracts with anybody."

"That," said Sir John, "is not unremarkable. In fact many persons who
do not happen to possess my own robust capacity for belief might not
credit your statement."

"And thirdly," said Edward Henry, "every member of the audience--even
in the boxes, the most expensive seats--will have a full view of the
whole of the stage--or, in the alternative, at _matinées_, a full view
of a lady's hat."

"Alderman," said Sir John, gravely, "before I offer you another egg,
let me warn you against carrying remarkableness too far. You may be
regarded as eccentric if you go on like that. Some people, I am told,
don't want a view of the stage."

"Then they had better not come to my theatre," said Edward Henry.

"All which," commented Sir John, "gives me no clue whatever to the
reason why you are sitting here by my side and calmly eating my eggs
and toast, and drinking my coffee."

Admittedly, Edward Henry was nervous. Admittedly, he was a provincial
in the presence of one of the most illustrious personages in the
Empire. Nevertheless, he controlled his nervousness, and reflected:

"Nobody else from the Five Towns would or could have done what I am
doing. Moreover, this chap is a mountebank. In the Five Towns they
would kow-tow to him, but they would laugh at him. They would mighty
soon add _him_ up. Why should I be nervous? I'm as good as he is." He
finished with the thought which has inspired many a timid man with new
courage in a desperate crisis: "The fellow can't eat me."

Then he said aloud:

"I want to ask you a question, Sir John."

"One?"

"One. Are you the head of the theatrical profession, or is Sir Gerald
Pompey?"

"_Sir_ Gerald Pompey?"

"_Sir_ Gerald Pompey. Haven't you seen the papers this morning?"

Sir John Pilgrim turned pale. Springing up, he seized the topmost of
an undisturbed pile of daily papers, and feverishly opened it.

"Bah!" he muttered.

He was continually thus imitating his own behaviour on the stage. The
origin of his renowned breakfasts lay in the fact that he had once
played the part of a millionaire-ambassador who juggled at breakfast
with his own affairs and the affairs of the world. The stage-breakfast
of a millionaire-ambassador created by a playwright on the verge of
bankruptcy had appealed to his imagination and influenced all the
mornings of his life.

"They've done it just to irritate me as I'm starting off on my world's
tour," he muttered, coursing round the table. Then he stopped and
gazed at Edward Henry. "This is a political knighthood," said he. "It
has nothing to do with the stage. It is not like my knighthood, is
it?"

"Certainly not," Edward Henry agreed. "But you know how people will
talk, Sir John. People will be going about this very morning
and saying that Sir Gerald is at last the head of the theatrical
profession. I came here for your authoritative opinion. I know you're
unbiased."

Sir John resumed his chair.

"As for Pompey's qualifications as a head," he murmured, "I know
nothing of them. I fancy his heart is excellent. I only saw him twice,
once in his own theatre, and once in Bond Street. I should be inclined
to say that on the stage he looks more like a gentleman than any
gentleman ought to look, and that in the street he might be mistaken
for an actor.... How will that suit you?"

"It's a clue," said Edward Henry.

"Alderman!" exclaimed Sir John, "I believe that if I didn't keep a
firm hand on myself I should soon begin to like you. Have another cup
of coffee. Chung!... Good-bye, Bootmaker, good-bye!"

"I only want to know for certain who is the head," said Edward Henry,
"because I mean to invite the head of the theatrical profession to lay
the corner-stone of my new theatre."

"Ah!"

"When do you start on your world's tour, Sir John?"

"I leave Tilbury, with my entire company, scenery and effects, on
the morning of Tuesday week, by the _Kandahar_. I shall play first at
Cairo."

"How awkward!" said Edward Henry. "I meant to ask you to lay the stone
on the very next afternoon--Wednesday, that is!"

"Indeed!"

"Yes, Sir John. The ceremony will be a very original affair--very
original!"

"A foundation-stone-laying!" mused Sir John. "But if you're already
up to the first floor, how can you be laying the foundation-stone on
Wednesday week?"

"I didn't say foundation-stone. I said corners-tone," Edward Henry
corrected him. "An entire novelty! That's why we can't be ready before
Wednesday week."

"And you want to advertise your house by getting the head of the
profession to assist?"

"That is exactly my idea."

"Well," said Sir John, "whatever else you may lack, Mr. Alderman, you
are not lacking in nerve, if you expect to succeed in _that_."

Edward Henry smiled. "I have already heard, in a roundabout way," he
replied, "that Sir Gerald Pompey would not be unwilling to officiate.
My only difficulty is that I'm a truthful man by nature. Whoever
officiates I shall of course have to have him labelled, in my own
interests, as the head of the theatrical profession, and I don't want
to say anything that isn't true."

There was a pause.

"Now, Sir John, couldn't you stay a day or two longer in London, and
join the ship at Marseilles instead of going on board at Tilbury?"

"But I have made all my arrangements. The whole world knows that I am
going on board at Tilbury."

Just then the door opened, and a servant announced:

"Mr. Carlo Trent."

Sir John Pilgrim rushed like a locomotive to the threshold and seized
both Carlo Trent's hands with such a violence of welcome that Carlo
Trent's eyeglass fell out of his eye and the purple ribbon dangled to
his waist.

"Come in, come in!" said Sir John. "And begin to read at once. I've
been looking out of the window for you for the last quarter of an
hour. Alderman, this is Mr. Carlo Trent, the well-known dramatic poet.
Trent, this is one of the greatest geniuses in London.... Ah! You know
each other? It's not surprising! No, don't stop to shake hands. Sit
down here, Trent. Sit down on this chair.... Here, Snip, take his hat.
Worry it! Worry it! Now, Trent, don't read to _me_. It might make you
nervous and hurried. Read to Miss Taft and Chung and to Mr. Givington
over there. Imagine that they are the great and enlightened public.
You have imagination, haven't you, being a poet?"

Sir John had accomplished the change of mood with the rapidity of a
transformation scene--in which form of art, by the way, he was a great
adept.

Carlo Trent, somewhat breathless, took a manuscript from his pocket,
opened it, and announced: "The Orient Pearl."

"Oh!" breathed Edward Henry.

For some thirty minutes Edward Henry listened to hexameters, the first
he had ever heard. The effect of them on his moral organism was
worse than he had expected. He glanced about at the other auditors.
Givington had opened a box of tubes and was spreading colours on his
palette. The Chinaman's eyes were closed while his face still grinned.
Snip was asleep on the parquet. Miss Taft bit the end of a pencil with
her agreeable teeth. Sir John Pilgrim lay at full length on a sofa,
occasionally lifting his legs. Edward Henry despaired of help in his
great need. But just as his desperation was becoming too acute to be
borne, Carlo Trent ejaculated the word "Curtain." It was the first
word that Edward Henry had clearly understood.

"That's the first act," said Carlo Trent, wiping his face. Snip
awakened.

Edward Henry rose, and, in the hush, tiptoed round to the sofa.

"Good-bye, Sir John," he whispered.

"You're not going?"

"I am, Sir John."

The head of his profession sat up. "How right you are!" said he. "How
right you are! Trent, I knew from the first words it wouldn't do. It
lacks colour. I want something more crimson, more like the brighter
parts of this jacket, something--" He waved hands in the air. "The
Alderman agrees with me. He's going. Don't trouble to read any more,
Trent. But drop in any time--any time. Chung, what o'clock is it?"

"It is nearly noon," said Edward Henry, in the tone of an old friend.
"Well, I'm sorry you can't oblige me, Sir John. I'm off to see Sir
Gerald Pompey now."

"But who says I can't oblige you?" protested Sir John. "Who knows
what sacrifices I would not make in the highest interests of the
profession? Alderman, you jump to conclusions with the agility of an
acrobat, but they are false conclusions! Miss Taft, the telephone!
Chung, my coat! Good-bye, Trent, good-bye!"

An hour later Edward Henry met Mr. Marrier at the Grand Babylon Hotel.

"Well, sir," said Mr. Marrier, "you are the greatest man that ever
lived!"

"Why?"

Mr. Marrier showed him the stop-press news of a penny evening paper,
which read: "Sir John Pilgrim has abandoned his ceremonious departure
from Tilbury, in order to lay the corner-stone of the new Regent
Theatre on Wednesday week. He and Miss Cora Pryde will join the
_Kandahar_ at Marseilles."

"You needn't do any advertaysing," said Mr. Marrier. "Pilgrim will do
all the advertaysing for you."


III


Edward Henry and Mr. Marrier worked together admirably that afternoon
on the arrangements for the corner-stone-laying. And--such was the
interaction of their separate enthusiasms--it soon became apparent
that all London (in the only right sense of the word "all") must and
would be at the ceremony. Characteristically, Mr. Marrier happened to
have a list or catalogue of all London in his pocket, and Edward Henry
appreciated him more than ever. But towards four o'clock Mr. Marrier
annoyed and even somewhat alarmed Edward Henry by a mysterious change
of mien. His assured optimism slipped away from him. He grew uneasy,
darkly preoccupied, and inefficient. At last, when the clock in the
room struck four, and Edward Henry failed to hear it, Mr. Marrier
said:

"I'm afraid I shall have to ask you to excuse me now."

"Why?"

"I told you I had an appointment for tea at four."

"Did you? What is it?" Edward Henry demanded, with an employer's
instinctive assumption that souls as well as brains can be bought for
such sums as three pounds a week.

"I have a lady coming to tea here. That is, downstairs."

"In this hotel?"

"Yes."

"Who is it?" Edward Henry pursued lightly, for though he appreciated
Mr. Harrier, he also despised him. However, he found the grace to add:
"May one ask?"

"It's Miss Elsie April."

"Do you mean to say, Marrier," complained Edward Henry, "that you've
known Miss Elsie April all these months and never told me?... There
aren't two, I suppose? It's the cousin or something of Rose Euclid?"

Mr. Marrier nodded. "The fact is," he said, "she and I are joint
honorary organizing secretaries for the annual conference of the Azure
Society. You know--it leads the New Thought movement in England."

"You never told me that, either?"

"Didn't I, sir? I didn't think it would interest you. Besides, both
Miss April and I are comparatively new members."

"Oh," said Edward Henry, with all the canny provincial's conviction of
his own superior shrewdness; and he repeated, so as to intensify this
conviction and impress it on others, "Oh!" In the undergrowth of his
mind was the thought: "How dare this man whose brains belong to me be
the organizing secretary of something that I don't know anything about
and don't want to know anything about?"

"Yes," said Mr. Marrier, modestly.

"I say," Edward Henry inquired warmly, with an impulsive gesture, "who
is she?"

"Who is she?" repeated Mr. Marrier, blankly.

"Yes. What does she do?"

"Doesn't do anything," said Mr. Marrier. "Very good amateur actress.
Goes about a great deal. Her mother was on the stage. Married a
wealthy wholesale corset-maker."

"Who did? Miss April?" Edward Henry had a twinge.

"No. Her mother. Both parents dead, and Miss April has an income--a
considerable income."

"What do you call considerable?"

"Five or six thousand a year."

"The deuce!" murmured Edward Henry.

"May have lost a bit of it, of course," Mr. Marrier hedged. "But not
much, not much!"

"Well," said Edward Henry, smiling, "what about _my_ tea? Am I to have
tea all by myself?"

"Will you come down and meet her?" Mr. Marrier's expression approached
the wistful.

"Well," said Edward Henry, "it's an idea, isn't it? Why should I be
the only person in London who doesn't know Miss Elsie April?"

It was ten minutes past four when they descended into the electric
publicity of the Grand Babylon. Amid the music and the rattle of
crockery and the gliding waiters and the large nodding hats that
gathered more and more thickly round the tables, there was no sign of
Elsie April.

"She may have been and gone away again," said Edward Henry,
apprehensive.

"Oh, no! She wouldn't go away." Mr. Marrier was positive.

In the tone of a man with an income of two hundred pounds a week he
ordered a table to be prepared for three.

At ten minutes to five he said:

"I hope she _hasn't_ been and gone away again!"

Edward Henry began to be gloomy and resentful. The crowded and
factitious gaiety of the place actually annoyed him. If Elsie April
had been and gone away again, he objected to such silly feminine
conduct. If she was merely late, he equally objected to such
unconscionable inexactitude. He blamed Mr. Marrier. He considered that
he had the right to blame Mr. Marrier because he paid him three pounds
a week. And he very badly wanted his tea.

Then their four eyes, which for forty minutes had scarcely left the
entrance staircase, were rewarded. She came, in furs, gleaming white
kid gloves, gold chains, a gold bag, and a black velvet hat.

"I'm not late, am I?" she said, after the introduction.

"No," they both replied. And they both meant it. For she was like fine
weather. The forty minutes of waiting were forgotten, expunged
from the records of time--just as the memory of a month of rain is
obliterated by one splendid sunny day.


IV


Edward Henry enjoyed the tea, which was bad, to an extraordinary
degree. He became uplifted in the presence of Miss Elsie April;
whereas Mr. Marrier, strangely, drooped to still deeper depths of
unaccustomed inert melancholy. Edward Henry decided that she was every
bit as piquant, challenging and delectable as he had imagined her to
be on the day when he ate an artichoke at the next table to hers at
Wilkins's. She coincided exactly with his remembrance of her,
except that she was now slightly more plump. Her contours were
effulgent--there was no other word. Beautiful she was not, for she had
a turned-up nose; but what charm she radiated! Every movement and tone
enchanted Edward Henry. He was enchanted not at intervals, by a chance
gesture, but all the time--when she was serious, when she smiled,
when she fingered her tea-cup, when she pushed her furs back over her
shoulders, when she spoke of the weather, when she spoke of the
social crisis, and when she made fun, with a certain brief absence of
restraint--rather in her artichoke manner of making fun.

He thought and believed:

"This is the finest woman I ever saw!" He clearly perceived the
inferiority of other women, whom, nevertheless, he admired and liked,
such as the Countess of Chell and Lady Woldo.

It was not her brains, nor her beauty, nor her stylishness that
affected him. No! It was something mysterious and dizzying that
resided in every particle of her individuality.

He thought:

"I've often and often wanted to see her again. And now I'm having tea
with her!" And he was happy.

"Have you got that list, Mr. Harrier?" she asked, in her low and
thrilling voice. So saying, she raised her eyebrows in expectation--a
delicious effect, especially behind her half-raised white veil.

Mr. Marrier produced a document.

"But that's _my_ list!" said Edward Henry.

"Your list?"

"I'd better tell you." Mr. Marrier essayed a rapid explanation.
"Mr. Machin wanted a list of the raight sort of people to ask to the
corner-stone-laying of his theatah. So I used this as a basis."

Elsie April smiled again:

"Very good!" she approved.

"What _is_ your list, Marrier?" asked Edward Henry.

It was Elsie who replied:

"People to be invited to the dramatic soirée of the Azure Society. We
give six a year. No title is announced. Nobody except a committee
of three knows even the name of the author of the play that is to be
performed. Everything is kept a secret. Even the author doesn't know
that his play has been chosen. Don't you think it's a delightful
idea?... An offspring of the New Thought!"

He agreed that it was a delightful idea.

"Shall I be invited?" he asked.

She answered gravely, "I don't know."

"Are you going to play in it?"

She paused.... "Yes."

"Then you must let me come. Talking of plays--"

He stopped. He was on the edge of facetiously relating the episode
of "The Orient Pearl" at Sir John Pilgrim's. But he withdrew in time.
Suppose that "The Orient Pearl" was the piece to be performed by the
Azure Society! It might well be! It was (in his opinion) just the sort
of play that that sort of society would choose! Nevertheless he was
as anxious as ever to see Elsie April act. He really thought that she
could and would transfigure any play. Even his profound scorn of New
Thought (a subject of which he was entirely ignorant) began to be
modified--and by nothing but the enchantment of the tone in which
Elsie April murmured the words, "Azure Society!"

"How soon is the performance?" he demanded.

"Wednesday week," said she.

In the next few days, they met on a great dinner in Auklappen together.
They sat far apart and were also randomly in the course of the
evening not just talk.

Maggie found out how he was troubled, as he scattered his desk lady
said, as she searched his eyes, and what a dear, quiet smile on his
serious face flew when their eyes met.

In such moments Maggie heart beat in a tempestuous tenderness for
him, and she thought: "Thank God, I am really good."

But still they had enough self-control, to him this evening out of the
way to go. Then he came, how they had calculated correctly, the next
day on horseback, "a matter of forestry," stayed for coffee and rode
away again until the evening. nächstemal That he came without any
pretext, and then more and more frequently.

As has been the top forester and Miss Perls present course, only
little of Gertrud spoken. Because she could return to the old,
Merry Maggie, only a little more subdued, and with a warm, comradely
tone for him, the simple, infinitely soft Mannebach boon. And
then encouraged the spirited life that kraftsprühende Sichausgeben,
the unbridled lust for life into their Seckersdorf, breastfeeding and
tired had become apparent to.

"God knows how it comes, Miss Maggie," he once said, "even if you are
very serious sad discuss things with you ... Man is reconciled properly
with them, finds it good that it has experienced ... "" What kind of
things seriously discuss it because when you may ask?

"Asked the head forester on a attempt to tease. As seen the two large
and silent uneasy. All in all, life was beautiful at this time. With
the thoughts of Gertrude Maggie was soon finished. Once they had a cool,
blässlich satisfied letter, after it seemed to go well, and then
everything bad brooding übertäubt by the large stimulus, these days
the tension region.

Always the goal in mind, half comedy playing and half honest, always
trepidation in the hot-blooded young people to frequent alone,
always in the expectation of the decision, but they instinctively
hinauszögernd.

It finally passed not a day more, where people did not see, and
Gertrude was always less spoken.

Forget it, he had not yet; Maggie knew the shy glance wistfully
long ago, the thought of it in his face animated, but also was less
frequent.

Once they ran into the garden, a bird observed track.

His narrow passageways under the snow were sharp frozen.

Maggie slipped from Seckersdorf supported them, and they had a
second leaned on him. He pressed them to be violent, then he let it
go quickly, saw them with unbridled amazement at and shook his head.

They were both embarrassed and were later included in the room right
in not talking more. Such small incidents were repeated, without that
there will be a debate came. The head forester began to be detuned
when Seckersdorf appeared, Maggie was also sometimes a bit long. But
they remained cautious, and pulled back rather than to him in his
ineptitude came a step forward would be. It came closer to Christmas
.

Seckersdorf should be returned to Saxony, and then he wanted to consult
with his uncle, whether he or his here in East Prussia would assume
permanent residence.

One afternoon, the head forester was gone, and we heard his Schelten
of the yard since Maggie told Seckersdorf them while he was in the
room umherging.

They sat with a Bescherungsarbeit at the window. In his words
came to her for the first time since their acquaintance a terrible
fear that they will be charged at the end might have.

If he was so at ease from his Fort Proceed said if nothing captivated
him ...

She was excited and totenblaß before Bangigkeit.

"What do you, Maggie?" He asked sincerely, "You're not good." They
shook with a sad smile his head.

"So you go for?" She asked uneasy and presented their work. He came
to her in the window niche.

They looked for a moment, inquisitive, warm, breathing hard. She sprang
hastily in and grazed him.

He jerked together. "Maggie?" He said unsure. "What?" "Can that be?"
"What?" She asked again quietly. "Is it possible that we - we are
good?" I think "she said with a bright Aufjauchzen. As he picked her,
she threw herself on his breast, and they kissed each other, as
Verdürstende who finally, finally tired of drinking.

So was Maggie Hagedorn Hans Seckersdorfs bride. * * * * * For Gertrude
had Laukischken in the days after the last terrible time at home
made bearable.

When she on the first evening, through the screening of her husband, all
the refined luxury house lit and warm that interrupts initially
overcome a sense of purely physical wellbeing.

You surprised that after such experiences and in the struggle with
such decisions can be could, but it was so.

Her husband, partly out of calculation, and partly from moodiness,
left them in peace, even after he had made the attempt, they have
the details of her Zerwürfnisses with your auszufragen.

"I do not want to talk about it," she replied cool, and finally even
when he was in his old imperious and mocking nature it had to
compel want to say that they are no longer regarded as his wife,
and think up what they had written to him.

He had her words pulled into ridicule, but they then a few days
left entirely unmolested.

And when they outwardly equanimity and cool, with all internal
broken, morning and evening had passed without him to change he
had, which such an unbearable state seemed, brought a great debate.

He it had the consequences of a divorce made it clear when a woman
always drew the short straw.

Then Kurowski had seriously talked with her, as never before in life.

He had told her that he is in principle a separation would agree,
but then it's proposal made because of the children to try again,
with him to live, as it is for two practical, sober people who
outwardly have obligations behooves.

He wanted it before the world no longer exist, to complain, it does
not require as what it would show good, and only the freedom of his
reserved ways.

The clear and forceful nature of his arguments was a boon for
Gertrude and that had at the moment everything they felt, pushed
back against what it verstandesmäßig they approached.

Without much to ponder, she had agreed to make this attempt, and
the interview in a position to be completed by her husband involuntarily
respect abgenötigt was.

And then she breathed in and started for the first time to be a
housewife to feel. You might not always brood about the wickedness
that she had taken, on the disgrace into which they would soon have
fallen - they wanted to create their duty to do so. And when they
showed such a plan, reported from all sides the people in it that were
previously under the tight command of the Lord on his own responsibility
had done. But she was so ignorant. She could almost never give notice.
They had to deal with difficulty by thinking and watching herausklauben
what other by habit and exercise is self-evident. Sometimes she asked
herself surprised, as was possible, so long in this house to live and
there's so little to know. There was however an old Mamsell about the
whole activity, the confidante of all female service personnel, as
far as the "merciful Lord" coherence. This person, whose presence
in their home, an accusation they had been, she had no longer
increases, as she returned, a tacit admission of her husband, with
whom she now agrees, since she is planning to separate kidney was
forced.

Your initial fixed resolve, yet by her husband to separate, faded
with the increasing activity.

Not only out of laziness or indifference against the outer life,
or because they are about her husband would have been friendly, but
it was during this period in which they are first tried out their
duties properly, as is the life of any exception Calls for a glimmer
of recognition in that it is less on luck or misfortune arrives,
but to the place of one's fate is now time dependent, with honor
to be filled.

Her husband was far away and apparently also took care of the house
is not much to the new teacher proved to be an amiable, clever
girl, with whom she likes now and chatted.

Companies visited her on the pretext of its not ill, and went to
live in smooth track, without odious, but in gray monotony.

From home, she had only a letter received by Ms. Perl, who spoke only
on Alleräußerlichsten from Seckersdorf was randomly among some neighboring
visits not been spoken, and she heard nothing more of everything
in the last few weeks so bitter and pained with such opposing
feelings of happiness were fulfilled.

That was very good, very good, she said in the evening and morning.

Then came shortly before Christmas, a letter from her father to his
"dear children".

Kurowski, in terms with the boy extended read it standing up and
smiled brightly on.

"Because," he called over to Gertrude, with his heart beating waited,
content to learn.

"Maggie has engaged with Seckersdorf.

The old man is, of course, hell ... Well, what is it? "Gertrude
looked at him half-absent. They seemed to be solidified. Kurowski sprang
to her.

"Pull yourself together," he angry. "What does this mean?" Gertrude
was directed at. Hot tears ran over her face. "Wines - here in
front of my eyes weep," cried outraged Kurowski. "That is however
strong." "Kurt," said Gertrude softly, 'tu', what you want. You know
it was that I had loved him. And Maggie takes him only from the
calculation. "The angry facial expression in Kurowskis went into a
scornful about." So, "he said, stressing his beard. "Well, we
travel to any event to congratulate." Gertrude looked at him with
tortured eyes.

"No," she said. "So determined? Well, I say: Yes! "" Kurt, there
was' not that I do not.

"As they are so inclined to him, beautiful as the day with a foreign
firm train on the face, grabbed him suddenly a raging jealousy .

He took them to the shoulders. "What happened between you and that
dog? Confess! You have taken with him, I am betrayed! "Almost at
the same point, before their flight, Gertrude had the same accusation
as a punch and felt silent. Today, where they are not so pure as it
was felt, they defended themselves. They gave their word that they
had never seen Seckersdorf. Kurowski And believed her. He probably
felt that he is better at these things no longer move, and took
congratulatory visits from a distance. "Under the condition that we
now, for me to Berlin, and leave in six weeks at her wedding to
come back," he said.

Gertrud breathed relief.

If they are not only hypocritical the press had to hand! "The wedding,
we therefore determined that," repeated her husband is dark, "so
the people get the mouth will be stopped. You know, I do not leave
me with fun. And the Seckersdorf is nothing more einzubilden, as at the
time - understood? "Gertrude shuddered together. "You rely on it,"
she said, toneless, and ran hastily from the room. They did not know
what the bitter weh tat, resentment, contempt, Gedemütigtsein, or
the limit increased awareness of the loss.

"Dear God," she prayed wimmernd, "give me a great pride, a pride,
uncontrollable, or let me die." * * * * * Maggie was now satisfied.

The everyday excitement of the bride little time, some well-and sometimes
jealous congratulatory visits of neighbors and friends who work
on the nächsterforderlichen facilities, all took their time and thoughts
so much in that they can no longer continue in brooding depth. You
had also had enough to do, they groom her away, and often when
he sat beside her, her hands limp in his hold and her calm and friendly
in the eye sight, felt a sting in the idea: he would be equally left
tenderly if _sie_ here sitting next to him? And in the memory, she saw
his eyes, and hot, so they often did when she was still Gertrud
allies, she had spoken.

That way, they did now.

Kurowskis had just been in the concept, a belated honeymoon to make -
as Maggie whose trip to Berlin to mention the habit - as their
engagement in Laukischken message arrived, and they had not seen.

But sometimes wrote Gertrud von Berlin Miss out on Perl, and there
was plenty of Hofbällen, the majesty of awards, lots of "Kurt"
the speech, and the conclusions made more "friendly greetings" for
the father and the bride and groom.

Moreover, there was talk then of course, and Maggie was also convinced
that it would be appropriate, the name of his sister at ease and
often more.

Seckersdorf become habituated and showed no noticeable movement
more so, as in the beginning.

Whether he her his bride, but now has become really was? Of course! He
was even in love, he treated them as equal comrades, but ... but
it was good that they are basically not everything was what it once
here and there in the hot flare up feel ...

Not for him, for no one, she knew, she was looking for in
thought, but there was really nobody there. And so they kissed again,
as Hans Seckersdorf they kissed, and often thought to be the great
flame, which once had burned in him, and whether it extinguished
forever ... With Gertrude and her fate had she not much. They wanted
their shiny outer experiences from which they heard as facts and not
on the state of pondering soul sister. You made it this time as well
as her father, and his life was in this way of doing things, just
have to continue well. Before a meeting at her wedding, which
had announced Kurowskis, it was not very anxious because they do
not actually believed . Hans also had it once after a long hesitation,
asked whether the Laukischker probably dächten it seriously. "Obviously,"
although she had said, but she was yet inwardly convinced that
Gertrude is not about to win would be to come Seckersdorfs wedding .

They moved to the February and the wedding day approached. Travel and
resettlement plans were more and more unrest in the daily life. The
equipment was concerned, considerations about the nature of the
festivities came to the series. Maggie was not easy. They pondered
how it all for them at the most advantageous made, and then ordered
to. In every way, she was anxious to ensure that their outward
appearance to be brighter in their best light, and their toilet was
preparing her wedding a few sleepless nights. Sometimes they overcome
revulsion against all these superficialities, which is now indicated
their lives, but they overcame him and talked to Finally, always the
"ultimate goal", which they now in a short time would have reached.
If Gertrude could not! Against a pale vergrämten Gertrud had it
their whole life have to fear. In her fantasy of course, for
Hans, his wife as they would on no more thinking, which she was sure.
But Gertrude did. One day before the bachelor met with a precious
jewelry of Kurowskis their commitment for the next day A. Seckersdorf,
the message seems indifferent to, Maggie, excited and utilized, presented
at the moment now is not so much emphasis on how the whole time before,
and the head forester of the heart was glad, because this comment
was the fatal events of the past winter, and any tension between
him Kurowskis and fortgewischt. And now there was the day. The whole
house had a different appearance. Everything was cleared to make
room for the guests that are in great quantity were expected, and all
rooms and passages with fir trees, branches and garlands.

Gertrude had it at her wedding so wanted to go to the last time their
forest to have. Maggie was not as sentimental, the same jewelry she
had chosen because it is easiest to manufacture, effective and easy to
obtain was. Commanded you still around, hit change, employed people,
and took Miss Perl everything out of your hands. It felt rather than
winner. But on the afternoon Laukischker wagon arrived, stood her
heart but still. Very pale, she joined the disembarking and ventured
forward in the first moment, the sister's face to see. The brother
welcomed loudly, while Gertrude Herabneigen cool in the face
presented to them easily without having to kiss. That meant, "I
have not forgotten." Defiantly saw it now - and almost went back.
Gertrud shone in her beauty against which they have never had a
woman exercised. Also, the father and made her maiden Perl astonished
comments about it. Gertrude said nothing, but Maggie said with
trepidation a new self, even triumphant train regularly in the proud
face that they are pale and thought gramzerstört had. "Yes, who
knows now to make the shy, modest Gertrud," said her husband "not
recognizable, sag 'ich euch, since they are a little bit of world
air has tasted.

But it was also 'ne feine Sache, Berlin this, does not it, kid?
"Who else but me," he reflected, exultant, "could have managed this
affair as I've managed it? Did anyone else ever take Sir John Pilgrim
up into the sky like a load of bricks, and frighten his life out of
him?"

As the cage approached the platforms of the first story he saw two
people waiting there; one he recognized as the faithful, harmless
Marrier; the other was a woman.

"Someone here wants you urgently, Mr. Machin!" cried Marrier.

"By Jove!" exclaimed Alloyd under his breath. "What a beautiful
figure! No girl as attractive as that ever wanted _me_ urgently! Some
folks do have luck!"

The woman had moved a little away when the cage landed. Edward Henry
followed her along the planking.

It was Elsie April.

"I thought you were ill in bed," he breathed, astounded.

Her answering voice reached him, scarcely audible:

"I'm only hoarse. My Cousin Rose has arrived to-night in secret at
Tilbury by the _Minnetonka_."

"The _Minnetonka_!" he muttered. Staggering coincidence! Mystic
heralding of misfortune!

"I was sent for," the pale ghost of a delicate voice continued. "She's
broken, ruined; no courage left. Awful fiasco in Chicago! She's hiding
now at a little hotel in Soho. She absolutely declined to come to my
hotel. I've done what I could for the moment. As I was driving by here
just now I saw the rocket and I thought of you. I thought you ought to
know it. I thought it was my duty to tell you."

She held her muff to her mouth. She seemed to be trembling.

A heavy hand was laid on his shoulder.

"Excuse me, sir," said a strong, rough voice, "are you the gent that
fired off the rocket? It's against the law to do that kind o' thing
here, and you ought to know it. I shall have to trouble you--"

It was a policeman of the C Division.

Sir John was disappearing, with his stealthy and conspiratorial air,
down the staircase.


CHAPTER VIII

DEALING WITH ELSIE


I


The headquarters of the Azure Society were situate in Marloes
Road--for no other reason than that it happened so. Though certain
famous people inhabit Marloes Road, no street could well be less
fashionable than this thoroughfare, which is very arid and very long,
and a very long way off the centre of the universe.

"The Azure Society, you know!" Edward Henry added, when he had given
the exact address to the chauffeur of the taxi.

The chauffeur, however, did not know, and did not seem to be ashamed
of his ignorance. His attitude indicated that he despised Marloes
Road and was not particularly anxious for his vehicle to be seen
therein--especially on a wet night--but that nevertheless he would
endeavour to reach it. When he did reach it, and observed the large
concourse of shining automobiles that struggled together in the
rain in front of the illuminated number named by Edward Henry, the
chauffeur admitted to himself that for once he had been mistaken,
and his manner of receiving money from Edward Henry was generously
respectful.

Originally, the headquarters of the Azure Society had been a seminary
and schoolmistress's house. The thoroughness with which the buildings
had been transformed showed that money was not among the things which
the Society had to search for. It had rich resources, and it had also
high social standing; and the deferential commissionaires at the doors
and the fluffy-aproned, appealing girls who gave away programmes in
the _foyer_ were a proof that the Society, while doubtless anxious
about such subjects as the persistence of individuality after death,
had no desire to reconstitute the community on a democratic basis. It
was above such transient trifles of reform, and its high endeavours
were confined to questions of immortality, of the infinite, of sex,
and of art: which questions it discussed in fine raiment and with all
the punctilio of courtly politeness.

Edward Henry was late, in common with some two hundred other people,
of whom the majority were elegant women wearing Paris or almost-Paris
gowns with a difference. As on the current of the variegated throng
he drifted through corridors into the bijou theatre of the Society, he
could not help feeling proud of his own presence there--and yet at the
same time he was scorning, in his Five Towns way, the preciosity
and the simperings of those his fellow-creatures. Seated in the
auditorium, at the end of a row, he was aware of an even keener
satisfaction, as people bowed and smiled to him; for the theatre was
so tiny and the reunion so choice that it was obviously an honour and
a distinction to have been invited to such an exclusive affair. To the
evening first fixed for the dramatic soirée of the Azure Society he
had received no invitation. But shortly after the postponement due to
Elsie April's indisposition an envelope addressed by Marrier himself,
and containing the sacred card, had arrived for him in Bursley. His
instinct had been to ignore it, and for two days he had ignored it,
and then he noticed in one corner the initials, "E.A." Strange that it
did not occur to him immediately that E.A. stood, or might stand, for
Elsie April!

Reflection brings wisdom and knowledge. In the end he was absolutely
convinced that E.A. stood for Elsie April; and at the last moment,
deciding that it would be the act of a fool and a coward to decline
what was practically a personal request from a young and enchanting
woman, he had come to London--short of sleep, it is true, owing to
local convivialities, but he had come! And, curiously, he had not
communicated with Marrier. Marrier had been extremely taken up
with the dramatic soirée of the Azure Society--which Edward Henry
justifiably but quite privately resented. Was he not paying three
pounds a week to Marrier?

And now, there he sat, known, watched, a notoriety, the card who had
raised Pilgrim to the skies, probably the only theatrical proprietor
in the crowded and silent audience; and he was expecting anxiously
to see Elsie April again--across the footlights! He had not seen her
since the night of the stone-laying, over a week earlier. He had not
sought to see her. He had listened then to the delicate tones of her
weak, whispering, thrilling voice, and had expressed regret for Rose
Euclid's plight. But he had done no more. What could he have done?
Clearly he could not have offered money to relieve the plight of Rose
Euclid, who was the cousin of a girl as wealthy and as sympathetic
as Elsie April. To do so would have been to insult Elsie. Yet he felt
guilty, none the less. An odd situation! The delicate tones of Elsie's
weak, whispering, thrilling voice on the scaffolding haunted his
memory, and came back with strange clearness as he sat waiting for the
curtain to ascend.

There was an outburst of sedate applause, and a turning of heads to
the right. Edward Henry looked in that direction. Rose Euclid herself
was bowing from one of the two boxes on the first tier. Instantly she
had been recognized and acknowledged, and the clapping had in no wise
disturbed her. Evidently she accepted it as a matter of course. How
famous, after all, she must be, if such an audience would pay her such
a meed! She was pale, and dressed glitteringly in white. She seemed
younger, more graceful, much more handsome, more in accordance with
her renown. She was at home and at ease up there in the brightness
of publicity. The imposing legend of her long career had survived the
eclipse in the United States. Who could have guessed that some ten
days before she had landed heart-broken and ruined at Tilbury from the
_Minnetonka_?

Edward Henry was impressed.

"She's none so dusty!" he said to himself in the incomprehensible
slang of the Five Towns. The phrase was a high compliment to Rose
Euclid, aged fifty and looking anything you like over thirty. It
measured the extent to which he was impressed.

Yes, he felt guilty. He had to drop his eyes, lest hers should catch
them. He examined guiltily the programme, which announced "The New
Don Juan," a play "in three acts and in verse"--author unnamed. The
curtain went up.


II


And with the rising of the curtain began Edward Henry's torture and
bewilderment. The scene disclosed a cloth upon which was painted, to
the right, a vast writhing purple cuttle-fish whose finer tentacles
were lost above the proscenium arch, and to the left an enormous
crimson oblong patch with a hole in it. He referred to the programme,
which said: "Act II. or A castle in a forest"; and also, "Scenery and
costumes designed by Saracen Givington, A.R.A." The cuttle-fish, then,
was the purple forest, or perhaps one tree in the forest, and the
oblong patch was the crimson castle. The stage remained empty, and
Edward Henry had time to perceive that the footlights were unlit and
that rays came only from the flies and from the wings.

He glanced round. Nobody had blenched. Quite confused, he referred
again to the programme and deciphered in the increasing gloom:
"Lighting by Cosmo Clark," in very large letters.

Two yellow-clad figures of no particular sex glided into view, and
at the first words which they uttered Edward Henry's heart seemed in
apprehension to cease to beat. A fear seized him. A few more words and
the fear became a positive assurance and realization of evil. "The New
Don Juan" was simply a pseudonym for Carlo Trent's "Orient Pearl"!...
He had always known that it would be. Ever since deciding to accept
the invitation he had lived under just that menace. "The Orient Pearl"
seemed to be pursuing him like a sinister destiny.

Weakly he consulted yet again the programme. Only one character bore
a name familiar to the Don Juan story, to wit "Haidee," and opposite
that name was the name of Elsie April. He waited for her--he had no
other interest in the evening--and he waited in resignation; a young
female troubadour (styled in the programme "the messenger") emerged
from the unseen depths of the forest in the wings and ejaculated to
the hero and his friend, "The Woman appears." But it was not Elsie
that appeared. Six times that troubadour-messenger emerged and
ejaculated, "The Woman appears," and each time Edward Henry was
disappointed. But at the seventh heralding--the heralding of the
seventh and highest heroine of this drama in hexameters--Elsie did at
length appear.

And Edward Henry became happy. He understood little more of the play
than at the historic breakfast-party of Sir John Pilgrim; he was well
confirmed in his belief that the play was exactly as preposterous as
a play in verse must necessarily be; his manly contempt for verse was
more firmly established than ever--but Elsie April made an exquisite
figure between the castle and the forest; her voice did really set up
physical vibrations in his spine. He was deliciously convinced that
if she remained on the stage from everlasting to everlasting, just so
long could he gaze thereat without surfeit and without other desire.
The mischief was that she did not remain on the stage. With despair he
saw her depart, and the close of the act was ashes in his mouth.

The applause was tremendous. It was not as tremendous as that which
had greeted the plate-smashing comedy at the Hanbridge Empire, but
it was far more than sufficiently enthusiastic to startle and shock
Edward Henry. In fact, his cold indifference was so conspicuous amid
that fever that in order to save his face he had to clap and to smile.

And the dreadful thought crossed his mind, traversing it like the
shudder of a distant earthquake that presages complete destruction:

"Are the ideas of the Five Towns all wrong? Am I a provincial after
all?"

For hitherto, though he had often admitted to himself that he was
a provincial, he had never done so with sincerity: but always in a
manner of playful and rather condescending badinage.


III


"Did you ever see such scenery and costumes?" someone addressed him
suddenly, when the applause had died down. It was Mr. Alloyd, who had
advanced up the aisle from a back row of the stalls.

"No, I never did!" Edward Henry agreed.

"It's wonderful how Givington has managed to get away from the
childish realism of the modern theatre," said Mr. Alloyd, "without
being ridiculous."

"You think so!" said Edward Henry, judicially. "The question is--has
he?"

"Do you mean it's too realistic for you?" cried Mr. Alloyd. "Well, you
_are_ advanced! I didn't know you were as anti-representational as all
that!"

"Neither did I!" said Edward Henry. "What do you think of the play?"

"Well," answered Mr. Alloyd, low and cautiously, with a somewhat
shamed grin, "between you and me I think the play's bosh."

"Come, come!" Edward Henry murmured as if in protest.

The word "bosh" was almost the first word of the discussion which he
had comprehended, and the honest familiar sound of it did him good.
Nevertheless, keeping his presence of mind, he had forborne to welcome
it openly. He wondered what on earth "anti-representational" could
mean. Similar conversations were proceeding around him, and each could
be very closely heard, for the reason that, the audience being frankly
intellectual and anxious to exchange ideas, the management had wisely
avoided the expense and noise of an orchestra. The _entr'acte_ was
like a conversazione of all the cultures.

"I wish you'd give us some scenery and costumes like this in _your_
theatre," said Alloyd, as he strolled away.

The remark stabbed him like a needle; the pain was gone in an instant,
but it left a vague fear behind it, as of the menace of a mortal
injury. It is a fact that Edward Henry blushed and grew gloomy--and
he scarcely knew why. He looked about him timidly, half defiantly.
A magnificently-arrayed woman in the row in front, somewhat to the
right, leaned back and towards him, and behind her fan said:

"You're the only manager here, Mr. Machin! How alive and alert you
are!" Her voice seemed to be charged with a hidden meaning.

"D'you think so?" said Edward Henry. He had no idea who she might be.
He had probably shaken hands with her at his stone-laying, but if
so he had forgotten her face. He was fast becoming one of the
oligarchical few who are recognized by far more people than they
recognize.

"A beautiful play!" said the woman. "Not merely poetic but
intellectual! And an extraordinarily acute criticism of modern
conditions!"

He nodded. "What do you think of the scenery?" he asked.

"Well, of course candidly," said the woman, "I think it's silly. I
daresay I'm old-fashioned." ...

As for my third and final proposal, it is the same, as already said,
to transform the state into a large, general solidarity affiliated
insurance company = = against old age, sickness, accident, disability,
distress and involuntary death.

Even with this one measure would be the largest part of the social
misery with a stroke of the past and the costly, often more harm
than good bearing arms unnecessary care are made, it would not meek
and abandoned without guilt more suitable, and the great principle
social reciprocity would help guide not only for individual districts,
but for the whole human society.

The society itself with its various subdivisions would suffer no
change, but it still exists, as before, and each individual would
be given or helped, depending on the his circumstances or needs,
his position, his social position and to the victims, which he
through his work or his property for the conservation of the State
brings or has brought.

However, we noted that these victims not reduced, but should be
substantially increased. But such a consideration can not be in the
weight is negligible compared to the enormous benefits of such a
facility, also would burden the fact that they on the shoulders of
all citizens without exception rests, for the individual are not
too difficult.

But let's not forget the tremendous sacrifice now privately for all
the various insurance and savings market purposes, and what little
more affordable expense to municipalities through the continually
increasing expenditures for the poor care may be imposed.

Also overlooked is not the enormous moral advantage, which is that
everyone in the consciousness lives and works, that every moment
he does not fault or leaving an outcast of society, or that his
survivors are not the prey of hunger and poverty can be; you finally
do not forget that the material sacrifices, which the state continually
to prevent the crimes against person and property is forced to pay
to see a very important need to be reduced.

If the state, as this example, in the Grand Duchy Hesse happens
every single building owner forced to attend a national insurance
of his property against fire hazard, as well to create a solidarity
of all home-owning citizens of their property against damage by
fire produces, why should he not have the right to the same solidarity
of the citizens against the additional concerns injury by disease,
age, disability and death triangle?

And how easy and simple, such a machine to steer or manage in its
comparison with the complicated and personally harassing laws provisions
of the = = Bismarck State Socialism, in which hardly a legal scholar
can navigate.

Still, it is with pleasure to welcome that introduction of this
state socialism beating the evidence has been provided that the
need for a similar measure my proposal in official circles as
parliamentary sufficiently recognized.

Only you will be all too keen to remind the well-known proverb:
'Wash me, and the fur does not make me wet.

"To be quite meritorious, that State Socialism is just a weak attempt
on the path of social reform, and quite incapable of the social
misery as such to lift.

Yes he can be dangerous insofar as he, because he can not hold what
it promises to be harmful deceptions and thus counter to more radical
reforms.

The same is true of the many Privatwohlthätigkeitsanstalten against
begging, alcoholism, poverty, unemployment, housing, etc., and of
the aspirations for religious, moral or intellectual uplift of the
lower classes of people or for raising agricultural or small business
to the joint procurement of production and Konsumtionsmitteln on
the way the self, or of the attempts, the old guild beings to
reinvigorate or through adoption of a standard wage and a normal
working situation of the working classes to improve, and the like
All these things are, such as = = Backhaus (ibid.) notes, slip means
Schönheitspflästerchen which probably here and there the sight of
social distress hide or bring about temporary relief, but in the
depths of the evil continues to proliferate.

Equally unsatisfactory as the state-socialism is private insurance
and with so many and great disadvantages that it = = Bismarck's plan
for nationalization of the life insurance sector hervorwuchs, a plan
which we know the opposition parliamentarians and Manchester-Men
failed. Incidentally, my proposal substantially different from that
plan, because under the same insurance is not voluntary, but mandatory
for every citizen should be, depending on its status, wealth,
position or earnings.

Should the government revenue for the intended purpose is not
sufficient (assuming what my first two suggestions would be hardly
conceivable), it should be good for the insurance premium as a tax
be levied as long as the work is insured.

The execution of further details would again lead to far.

Allow me therefore to the second volume in my writing "From Nature
and Science" contained essay on the adoption of the life insurance
sector by the State concerned. These are the broad outlines of the
proposal put to me in = = social reform, in contrast to those of
the Social Democracy = =, a reform which obviously only = = peaceful
means should be carried out and can, and only by gaining a larger
number of influential men on the road record of conviction.

Although assured us the Social Democracy also that only by peaceful
means, their goal wish to achieve, but this is expected but only
an insurance policy's wisdom.

Even the word "democracy" shows the people, and thus to a revolution
of political relationships, marriage, however, I further explanation
on the difference of major social reform = = = and = set of social
democracy, it is necessary to predict the remark that my proposals
do nothing with communism thun to have. I intend neither a repeal of
private property, nor any restriction of personal freedom, but quite
the contrary, a major development or development of the latter by
removing the obstacles to the individual in the struggle for existence,
and the fact that in an emergency to take the helpful hand each
of the state is open, the latter not as a charity, but as a work
by established right.

Who under such circumstances and under free path for development of
his forces does not, deserves his fate. He does not turn on the
circumstances or the injustice of society, but to himself basically.
It is true that communism in itself is not something so terrible
and monstrous, as most people care to present.

One can, as already noticed quite a state on the basis of communist
imagine what all possessions in common and work quite voluntarily
would be - assuming that the through long years and the company
states large towed selfish drives and inclinations of human nature
itself had transformed into altruistic, which is of course only
very slowly and gradually could happen.

And certainly not all until now known communist attempts failed, and
where they failed, this is often less a result of inner impossibility,
but rather the pressure of unfavorable external circumstances in
the midst of a very different bases have been established social
order. [7] there is already present in the state and community life
is a not insignificant amount of communist organizations, all of
which, if the unilateral and hidebound Manchester doctrine were
correct, more or less eliminated, and the almost always inadequate
Privatthätigkeit should be left.

Just think of the manifold duties and their utilization for the
purposes of public policy at the national debt, in which every
individual participates in military duty, which obliges every one,
even life and health in the interest of the community aufzuopfern,
the so-called Expropriationsgesetze, to the public by the state on
cost-led teaching and the Schulz Wang, on railways, roads and public
buildings, to state government posts and telegraphs, to the public
health, to community care and poor care, to government measures to
improve agriculture, to the State supervision of factories, mines,
banks, housing, etc., to public fountains, museums, libraries,
promenades, care homes, hospitals, etc.

All of these things, any taxation of the citizens of state and
municipal due to other purposes, as police, judiciary and military,
so for the protection of individuals both inside and outside, are
more or less socialist or communist organizations, which the
Manchester-doctrine the only state in which a police institution
to secure person, property and public safety beholds, so effectively
has the same role as a paid protection man can play, just run.

But all this does not prevent that an ever so strong and general
aversion the people against any kind of Communist state design is
that each word as it appears superfluous.

It must first, as I said, long years of altruism and collectivism
preceded, this aversion to Mr. reasonably be placed. Meanwhile,
there must be sufficient, if you will be able to participate in the
hands of the proposals made by me a greater balance between state
- and private property or between the interests of the individual
and those of the whole to bring about.

It is the same program, which the famous National economist = = Schäffler
at its "essence of socialism" had, by this quintessence of = Replacement
of private capital through the collective capital = find. Also it
is true in its essentials with the expanded program, which = =
Bebel in his writing about "the woman" for the welfare of the future
requires, if he insists that the concepts of state and society
künftighin cover, and that the contrast between today's social
and political organization should disappear. The Wohlthätigkeit of
such a body or a reconciliation between individual and overall
interests can not better be made clear when a comparison of the
state body with the bodies of animal or human organism. There is a
continual flow of the life juices from the periphery by the center
and vice versa from the center to the periphery instead. The lively
and unfettered flow that is going on, the better is the state of
health and well-being, while the stagnation juices exchange at
individual parts of the body to bring disease and destruction.

The same is true in the state and in the human society, which is so
comfortable there, ever lively exchange and balance between private
and total output is. The large private assets the same bumps or
pus Blutstockungen, which, by focusing on individual agencies to set
the exchange described disrupt and perishable to the total organism-back
effect. Through the effect of my proposals is such a disorder also
no longer be possible.

Because they bring back a perpetual flow of private property in the
possession of all and then again after the periphery or in the
individual. The large state coffers must somehow the heart of the
state body form, which one its fertilizing and feeding content
through numerous channels in the organs and tissues of the body state
and drives the same as many of the other channels and veins again
sucks in itself.

Without the hated communist "parts" is a sense in each and every
moment "shared" and produced a condition in which the beautiful,
already frequently cited word "one for all and all for one" is to
truth.

"The home for all goods to state after the death of its acquirer,
"says M. = = Nordau (ibid.)

"creates an almost inexhaustible common property, without the
individual = owned lift =.

Each individual then has a vested and a total assets, as there is a
baptism and a family name ....

By the individual works for themselves, it also works for all, which
one day the entire surplus on the acquisition of his consumption
good will happen. The total assets is the huge reservoir, which arose
from the abundance of one another and the lack of a duty to rectify
and after each age people are always emerging inequalities in the
distribution of goods balance, which the inequality of inheritance
on the contrary, fixed, and with each generation makes rugged.

"Quite different from this, in a peaceful way of the program carried
out social reform = = = is that of social democracy =, which, at least
in Germany, currently at the forefront of the whole socialist
movement, and openly expressed the hope is nurtured, state and
society with time on their meaning to be able to convert, this
hope is an illusion and it will probably remain. The main accusation
that one of social democracy can and must make is that the concept
of social reform and the social question about sums up much too
close.

Because it makes the great social question of what all humanity has
to include a narrow question = = Workers who bargain when one
considers the matter in light, only a certain class of workers
includes.

The general human rights and human interests, of course, also include
the rights and interests of workers, while the reverse is not the
case and the rights and interests of workers (in the strict
sense) is not the general human rights included. Even the hope of the
Social Democrats that, initially, and for practical reasons, the
interests and rights of the handicraft classes based on the same
cropped, with time there will be, even the general interests of
humanity to tackle the big social issue to solve, should, as shown
in more detail will be a very illusive.

The real father of the modern social democracy is = = Ferdinand
Lassalle, who by his appearance in the beginning of the sixties the
then almost everywhere forming associations and workers' education
after = Schulze =- Delitzsch'schem established patterns of consumption,
raw material and pre-clubs in a day-case and by his promises of
future hostilities, the mass of the workers brought to his side.

It will also beside = = Karl Marx, who as the spiritual father of
the whole movement is to be still on the mass of the Social Democrats
as a kind of apostle or saint, although his theories have long recognized
as wrong, and even by today's school of social democracy more or less
abandoned.

In particular, his big hope of the general voting rights, through
which, once introduced, he plans to achieve its hoped that proved
to be quite illusory.

We are in Germany for over twenty years in the possession of the
general voting rights, or of universal, equal, direct and secret
suffrage for the elections to the supreme representative of the
German people or of the Reichstag.

And what happens during this long period with the help of a hitherto
unprecedented agitation by the Socialist leaders have been
achieved?

The fact that a relatively small Häuflein their followers, which,
however, by Rührigkeit and talent of the weak makes reasonably
competitive, seat and voice in the German Reichstag has acquired,
for example, while the influence of the Catholic = = leadership
election for more than three times has proved to .

However, the Social Democratic Party now with all the power in the
attempt thrown their agitation on the land transfer and the great
mass of the rural population, which in general elections, so usually
the rash giebt for himself to win.

But you can almost predict with certainty that this attempt at the
predominantly conservative sense of the rural population and their
political apathy will fail.

Should this not be the case and should be of the Social Democrats hoped
success actually happen sooner or later, or even in prospect, so
would the wealthy and in possession of the violence being langs
classes of society have ensured that such an alteration or Restriction
of universal suffrage, such a result would make it impossible, would
have occurred.

You were
quite right to refuse to go into partnership with her. She thinks so
too. We've talked it over, and we're quite agreed. Of course it did
seem hard--at the time, and her bad luck in America seemed to make it
worse. But you were quite right. You can work much better alone. You
must have felt that instinctively--far quicker than we felt it."

"Well," he murmured, confused, "I don't know--"

Could this be she who had too openly smiled at his skirmish with an
artichoke?

"Oh, Mr. Machin!" she burst out. "You've got an unprecedented
opportunity, and thank Heaven you're the man to use it! We're all
expecting so much from you, and we know we shan't be disappointed."

"D'ye mean the theatre?" he asked, alarmed as it were amid rising
waters.

"The theatre," said she, gravely. "You're the one man that can save
London. No one _in_ London can do it!... _You_ have the happiness of
knowing what your mission is, and of knowing, too, that you are equal
to it. What good fortune! I wish I could say as much for myself.
I want to do something! I try! But what can I do? Nothing--really!
You've no idea of the awful loneliness that comes from a feeling of
inability."

"Loneliness," he repeated. "But surely--" he stopped.

"Loneliness," she insisted. Her little chin was now in her little
hand, and her dim face upturned.

And suddenly a sensation of absolute and marvellous terror seized
Edward Henry. He was more afraid than he had ever been--and yet
once or twice in his life he had felt fear. His sense of true
perspective--one of his most precious qualities--returned. He thought:
"I've got to get out of this." Well, the door was not locked. It was
only necessary to turn the handle, and security lay on the other side
of the door! He had but to rise and walk. And he could not. He might
just as well have been manacled in a prison-cell. He was under an
enchantment.

"A man," murmured Elsie, "a man can never realize the loneliness--"
She ceased.

He stirred uneasily.

"About this play," he found himself saying. And yet why should he
mention the play in his fright? He pretended to himself not to know
why. But he knew why. His instinct had seen in the topic of the play
the sole avenue of salvation.

"A wonderful thing, isn't it?"

"Oh, yes," he said. And then--most astonishingly to himself--added:
"I've decided to do it."

"We knew you would," she said calmly. "At any rate I did.... You'll
open with it, of course."

"Yes," he answered desperately. And proceeded, with the most
extraordinary bravery, "If you'll act in it."

Immediately on hearing these last words issue from his mouth he knew
that a fool had uttered them, and that the bravery was mere rashness.
For Elsie's responding gesture reinspired him afresh with the
exquisite terror which he had already begun to conjure away.

"You think Miss Euclid ought to have the part," he added quickly,
before she could speak.

"Oh! I do!" cried Elsie, positively and eagerly. "Rose will do simply
wonders with that part. You see she can speak verse. I can't. I'm
nobody. I only took it because--"

"Aren't you anybody?" he contradicted. "Aren't you anybody? I can just
tell you--"

There he was again, bringing back the delicious terror! An astounding
situation!

But the door creaked. The babble from the stage invaded the room.
And in a second the enchantment was lifted from him. Several people
entered. He sighed, saying within himself to the disturbers:

"I'd have given you a hundred pounds apiece if you'd been five minutes
sooner."

And yet simultaneously he regretted their arrival. And, more curious
still, though he well remembered the warning words of Mr. Seven
Sachs concerning Elsie April, he did not consider that they were
justified.... She had not been a bit persuasive ... only....


VII


He sat down to the pianisto with a strange and agreeable sense of
security. It is true that, owing to the time of year, the drawing-room
had been, in the figurative phrase, turned upside down by the process
of spring-cleaning, which his unexpected arrival had surprised in
fullest activity. But he did not mind that. He abode content among
rolled carpets, a swathed chandelier, piled chairs, and walls full of
pale rectangular spaces where pictures had been. Early that
morning, after a brief night spent partly in bed and partly in erect
contemplation of his immediate past and his immediate future, he had
hurried back to his pianisto and his home--to the beings and things
that he knew and that knew him.

In the train he had had the pleasure of reading in sundry newspapers
that "The Orient Pearl," by Carlo Trent (who was mentioned in terms of
startling respect and admiration), had been performed on the previous
evening at the dramatic soirée of the Azure Society, with all the
usual accompaniments of secrecy and exclusiveness, in its private
theatre in Kensington, and had been accepted on the spot by Mr. E.H.
Machin ("that most enterprising and enlightened recruit to the ranks
of theatrical managers") for production at the new Regent Theatre. And
further that Mr. Machin intended to open with it. And still further
that his selection of such a play, which combined in the highest
degree the poetry of Mr. W.B. Yeats with the critical intellectuality
of Mr. Bernard Shaw, was an excellent augury for London's dramatic
future, and that the "upward movement" must on no account be thought
to have failed because of the failure of certain recent ill-judged
attempts, by persons who did not understand their business, to force
it in particular directions. And still further that he, Edward Henry,
had engaged for the principal part Miss Rose Euclid, perhaps the
greatest emotional actress the English-speaking peoples had ever had,
but who unfortunately had not been sufficiently seen of late on the
London stage, and that this would be her first appearance after her
recent artistic successes in the United States. And lastly that Mr.
Marrier (whose name would be remembered in connection with ... etc.,
etc.) was Mr. E.H. Machin's acting manager and technical adviser.
Edward Henry could trace the hand of Marrier in all the paragraphs.
Marrier had lost no time.

Mrs. Machin, senior, came into the drawing-room just as he was
adjusting the "Tannhäuser" overture to the mechanician. The piece was
one of his major favourites.

"This is no place for you, my lad," said Mrs. Machin, grimly, glancing
round the room. "But I came to tell ye as th' mutton's been cooling at
least five minutes. You gave out as you were hungry."

"Keep your hair on, mother," said he, springing up.

Barely twelve hours earlier he had been mincing among the elect and
the select and the intellectual and the poetic and the aristocratic;
among the lah-di-dah and Kensingtonian accents; among rouged lips and
blue hose and fixed simperings; in the centre of the universe. And he
had conducted himself with considerable skill accordingly. Nobody,
on the previous night, could have guessed from the cut of his fancy
waistcoat or the judiciousness of his responses to remarks about
verse, that his wife often wore a white apron, or that his mother
was--the woman she was! He had not unskilfully caught many of the
tricks of that metropolitan environment. But now they all fell away
from him, and he was just Edward Henry--nay, he was almost the old
Denry again.

"Who chose this mutton?" he asked as he bent over the juicy and rich
joint and cut therefrom exquisite thick slices with a carving-knife
like a razor.

"_I_ did, if ye want to know," said his mother. "Anything amiss with
it?" she challenged.

"No. It's fine."

"Yes," said she. "I'm wondering whether you get aught as good as that
in those grand hotels as you call 'em."

"We don't," said Edward Henry. First, it was true; and secondly, he
was anxious to be propitiatory, for he had a plan to further.

He looked at his wife. She was not talkative, but she had received
him in the hall with every detail of affection, if a little
absent-mindedly owing to the state of the house. She had not
been caustic, like his mother, about this male incursion into
spring-cleaning. She had not informed the surrounding air that she
failed to understand why them as were in London couldn't stop
in London for a bit, as his mother had. Moreover, though the
spring-cleaning fully entitled her to wear a white apron at meals, she
was not wearing a white apron: which was a sign to him that she still
loved him enough to want to please him. On the whole he was fairly
optimistic about his plan of salvation. Nevertheless, it was not until
nearly the end of the meal--when one of his mother's apple-pies was
being consumed--that he began to try to broach it.

"Nell," he said, "I suppose you wouldn't care to come to London with
me?"

"Oh!" she answered smiling, a smile of a peculiar quality. It was
astonishing how that simple woman could put just one tenth of one per
cent of irony into a good-natured smile. "What's the meaning of this?"
Then she flushed. The flush touched Edward Henry in an extraordinary
manner.

("To think," he reflected incredulously, "that only last night I
was talking in the dark to Elsie April--and here I am now!" And he
remembered the glory of Elsie's frock, and her thrilling voice in the
gloom, and that pose of hers as she leaned dimly forward.)

"Well," he said aloud, as naturally as he could, "that theatre's
beginning to get up on its hind-legs now, and I should like you to see
it."

A difficult pass for him, as regards his mother! This was the first
time he had ever overtly spoken of the theatre in his mother's
presence. In the best bedroom he had talked of it--but even there with
a certain self-consciousness and false casualness. Now, his mother
stared straight in front of her with an expression of which she alone
among human beings had the monopoly.

"I should like to," said Nellie, generously.

"Well," said he, "I've got to go back to town to-morrow. Wilt come
with me, lass?"

"Don't be silly, Edward Henry," said she. "How can I leave mother in
the middle of all this spring-cleaning?"

"You needn't leave mother. We'll take her too," said Edward Henry,
lightly.

"You won't!" observed Mrs. Machin.

"I _have to_ go to-morrow, Nell," said Edward Henry. "And I was
thinking you might as well come with me. It will be a change for you."

(He said to himself, "And not only have I to go to-morrow, but you
absolutely must come with me, my girl. That's the one thing to do.")

"It would be a change for me," Nellie agreed--she was beyond doubt
flattered and calmly pleased. "But I can't possibly come to-morrow.
You can see that for yourself, dear."

"No, I can't!" he cried impatiently. "What does it matter? Mother'll
be here. The kids'll be all right. After all, spring-cleaning isn't
the Day of Judgment."

"Edward Henry," said his mother, cutting in between them like a thin
blade, "I wish you wouldn't be blasphemous. London's London, and
Bursley's Bursley." She had finished.

"It's quite out of the question for me to come to-morrow, dear. I must
have notice. I really must."

And Edward Henry saw with alarm that Nellie had made up her mind, and
that the flattered calm pleasure in his suggestion had faded from her
face.

"Oh! Dash these domesticated women!" he thought, and shortly
afterwards departed, brooding, to the offices of the Thrift Club.


VIII


He timed his return with exactitude, and, going straight upstairs to
the chamber known indifferently as "Maisie's room" or "nurse's room,"
sure enough he found the three children there alone! They were fed,
washed, night-gowned and even dressing-gowned; and this was the hour
when, while nurse repaired the consequences of their revolutionary
conduct in the bathroom and other places, they were left to
themselves. Robert lay on the hearthrug, the insteps of his soft pink
feet rubbing idly against the pile of the rug, his elbows digging into
the pile, his chin on his fists, and a book perpendicularly beneath
his eyes. Ralph, careless adventurer rather than student, had climbed
to the glittering brass rail of Maisie's new bedstead and was thereon
imitating a recently-seen circus performance. Maisie, in the bed
according to regulation, and lying on the flat of her back, was
singing nonchalantly to the ceiling. Carlo, unaware that at that
moment he might have been a buried corpse but for the benignancy of
Providence in his behalf, was feeling sympathetic towards himself
because he was slightly bored.

"Hello, kids!" Edward Henry greeted them. As he had seen them before
mid-day dinner, the more formal ceremonies of salutation after
absence--so hateful to the Five Towns temperament--were happily over
and done with.

Robert turned his head slightly, inspected his father with a judicial
detachment that hardly escaped the inimical, and then resumed his
book.

("No one would think," said Edward Henry to himself, "that the
person who has just entered this room is the most enterprising and
enlightened of West End theatrical managers.")

It was now time. - So yesterday she had thought of as the father of
Seckersdorf said.

Today was different. Now she came back not provisionally eligible.
Now only the poor, pale woman.

"It is good for us but others," she thought, "that people such as
Gertrude, exist. That you love them so can you show yourself that
you in fact is also very kind.

And while you can see how not to do it if you do want to come forward.
"Was it really to believe that Gertrude, with all its beauty and grace
and loving-kindness so susceptible Kurowski had not captivate them?

That would be like a lot, so a task for her, Maggie, have been. But
she wanted so do not even imagine - even now in such impossible ideas.
Then it would have even the thought of Seckersdorf can come - but
they just wanted to fight for Gertrude.

"The light is off, because you do not like it," said a quiet inner
voice. »Blond, quiet and restrained, is not your taste."

Now they are quietly stamped with his foot and went to Gertrude geradenwegs
to make them savory and tender kiss.

"You believe that I love thee?" She asked passionately. "You do
something from me? I'm the only one to which you have full confidence?
"" But, Maggie, to whom else should I do in my terrible situation? ...
You're my only stop ... The children are still so small. "" Yes,
the children, the children!

"Maggie quickly changed the conversation."

But we have with the whole body so much to bereden. Come, darling,
if you still know what carpentry straightening and kitchen and
pantry mean ...

BTW, if not, you will learn it again just now.

You have far too much pampering, my noble mistress!

"Gertrude smiled and went willingly with her Miss Perl, named after
the economy in particular, while in fact long since Maggie the
large, rural budget.

We discussed the classification of the room above, the supervision of
children and small household current, which now again Gertrud
should participate.

They did it with feverish zeal. She was tenderly and active concern
for the children, they ordered in for her and the boys given two
rooms here and there. There was not much about it out, but she was
busy. She brought over these troubled full hours in which her heart
was anxious and afraid, in which the thought: "What is now?"

She zermarterte in which the silent durchhuschende clue: "It's a
good thing - perhaps the Fortunately, "it was for pain.

After a long, silent walk through the forest herbstatmenden, now
in clear, almost winter sun gold, the remaining vestiges of its
summer charms peaceful and austere ausstreute in whose dreamlike
silence a few shrill bird sounds, the rustling of the withered
leaves, the children's voices aufjubelnden the only signs of life
were, then came the sisters tired arm in arm home.

Both love each other completely, and yet the feelings of the giver,
the other as a receiving end.

"How good it is, when Maggie and daheim to be, "Gertrude, and thought:
'How beautiful it is, for a dear man plans to make and it is so
wonderful to behave," thought Maggie.

That night both slept well. The next morning was a little Gertrud
resilient, calm and assertive. * * * * * Soon after breakfast, the
head forester's youngest daughter in her arms and invited them to
explore the new beats mitzugehen.

That was his habit so if something he had on the heart, or in any
business matter, with not quite the pure was.

Maggie with her penetrating intellect usually met, what he is as
old Praktikus herausspintisiert had, and then he was satisfied.

In their impetuous and rarely satisfied Drange, to intervene in
matters that have their habitual Work hinausragten, she had always
such a joy to corridors.

She felt then still the most as the daughter of her father, whom
she thought otherwise often referred to as the "old man" anredete
and from which they basically do not quite understand that the
nature of him and they in such close connection hineingezwungen had.

He in turn was much too wise, than he that this shortage of cardiac
inclination would not understand, but he did not much of it.

In the deepest inside, he was convinced that his own feeling the
same emptiness instead. That's why they came but no less well with
each other. They were just two people with little heart needs, and
what that sense of family they were, they had to Gertrud geschüttet
who need so much love and was everything that she was so grateful
to reciprocate understood.

To Gertrude, of course, it would act today.

And most fire for its plan, Maggie made for the long journey with
the Father ready.

He was obviously nothing of all suspect and should have been the
main tool.

They beamed formal, as they are adopted by the sister.

"You're really a beauty became, Maggie," said Gertrud and kissed
the rose-red face, the gray eyes glowed fiery and deliberately.

"I know no one who is so Rick Best end, as du If only you could
bring.

But here ... "" Come come, is no concern, "said Maggie, laughing,
and ran down.

Even the old man saw her with a touch of pride, which, like them,
very resilient and tension force, occurred to him."

Bist but a tight guy, "he said with appreciation.

"If you as a would!" "Maybe losing one of the wooden rackets his
heart to me - or the new area forester. Seems a very considerable man
to be "mocked Maggie." If everything is alleged, child, "said the
old man. "And if a girl is at first in such cursed stories and silly
letting, it needs not just to his lieutenant, who comes in the way."
"You know, Dad," said Maggie, now seriously go to their destination,
"that I suspected you did, then you've got the whole story between
Gertrude and Seckersdorf apart brought?"

"You know, break it to you today, now the head no more," said the
head forester.

"The thing is barred.

Help prefer the Gertrude on the right path and strengthen they are
not yet in their rebelliousness against Kurowski.

What else should just be? "Maggie knew it well, but they thoughtfully
pushed the yellow leaves with red book in front of the toes on. "Yes,
finally you can but Gertrude can not abuse," she said.

"If _die_ sues, it must already be bad. And you know so well, what a
life of love Kurt leads.

I only wonder that before the marriage did not have guessed. ""
Oh, that was already known.

I thought only a woman, as our Gertrud, which it is already accustomed
to the house. "" Yes, except that the experiment has failed, "said
Maggie.

"And now is the Gertrud miserable and consumed with their two boys
there."

A certain indignation, half offended by the sister, the half of
himself afraid woman, took her almost speechless.

They broke a dry branch, which it by a pin bushes had torn and
threw the pieces are excited to continue.

The head forester bit on the lips and lowered his head. "He is a
greyhound stories in women's rooms," he said, "but otherwise a decent
guy. And then the children ... The Gertrude otherwise he will spoil
like a princess.

And the scandal of so 'divorce its history!

It is not ... tell yourself, it's not ... "He looked unsure about
Maggie out.

In his eyelashes sparkled a bit.

That was his daughter had never seen in him.

It gave her back her whole sangfroid. No, this should not happen. If
they did something for Gertrude, had no Gemütsduselei and no
superfluous excitation with undermined.

Cold and clever, she wanted to steer everything to their objectives,
the Association of Gertrude and Seckersdorfs.

"Yes, Dad, it's bad," she said beistimmend, "seh the 'ich schon ein ...
but what can you do?

"Silently they went side by side for a while. The stock moved.

Instead of striving buntgefärbten Broadleaves old now, moosbehangene
firs on.

Clear and stressed the golden sun through the dark green, and gold
patches blossomed on the forest floor to brownish. "Beautiful
piece," said the old man. »The Endzipfel belongs to Tromitten."

"What was now Seckersdorf yesterday?" Asked Maggie.

"Yes," replied the head forester hesitatingly, "I was already on, that
you get at the end the Kurowski but not before the head encounter
can.

I have not promised ...

Überbürdung vorgeschützt me ausgebeten reflection. However, I lose three
to four thousand mark, - Marriage money, girl ...

If you only knew ...

Tell me, what is actually happening in Kurowskis been? "Maggie said.
The head forester shook his head and cursed."

If the Kurt but still behind her is her, "he said finally," that his
wife should not view whom she wants, it must be with the indifference
and poor treatment is not so bad.

Perhaps the haunted Gertrude are really the Seckersdorf around in
your head ... then of course ...

"said Maggie resist zealously.

The Gertrude would be far too much down, except that they dächte such
things. But too genteel and harmless, it would also, and could not
imagine that even their eyes put under all sorts of significance. You
should therefore ensure that they never Seckersdorf zusammenträfe
because who knows if not Kurowski just would have gone to Berlin
and Gertrude had left here alone, to make the case to make?

Then it would be a convenient way to go, and the children belonged
to him.

"All the weather!" The head forester stopped and looked at his
youngest aback. That was an idea. Zuzutrauen And that's the guy, the
Kurowski, already. Of course! The fact that it is itself also was not
haggard! Thank God that he Gertrud had still not taken. "And you know
why, girl? I was with the Seckersdorf in Oak beats agreed and thought
now, if you casually with him ... Na, and so on. "Maggie was shocked
that she was pale. So unprepared, so entirely without zurechtgelegt to
have the story of how they actually should launch ... But she lifted
her head again and saw with their eyes shining Falk forward. So much
the better. The luck was with her. Maybe everything really did so
even more natural.

As the father she so often accompanied miles, before the world was the
intention of a meeting excluded.

They also wanted to speculate and not left to chance, in what way
they could understand with Seckersdorf.

Now, while they were hale further, they talked about everything on
Gertrud references. The father, she had only said that it would be very
nice, the Seckersdorf so soon to meet, and then the interview itself
brought back to Gertrude. It was so much to think, they had each other
and the heart on the appearance and tired, tired of being poor woman
to be distributed to Kurowski to scold his dazzling, unreliable
character to dismember and finally again on the return "The poor
Gertrude, - what will it just be?"

Here, they went to hale and eventually came to the clearing at the
edge of a dozen ancient oaks "executed", as Maggie said. The people
greeted the Wardens stepped up.

And from there, the opposite side, where he led his horse, came across
Hans Seckersdorf. Maggie knew him at first sight. Now it was but the
heart still. So this man's fate, she wanted to steer. She had time
to look at him while he was on the lawn, opposite the father, with a
loud greeting to him zuschritt. He was very tall, slim as it it in the
Uniform remembered, he contributed to the relatively small head high,
was somewhat stiff in the movements. The face, like a regular Mars
mask with mustache aschblondem, including a soft chin. The whole
thing is dominated by a few blue eyes wide under the eyelids,
strangely quiet and solid looking, - all in all, a man, where you
do not pass so easily could.

Now even made Maggie a few steps forward.

Vivid in color, freshness and youth force breathing, she joined him,
stretched out at ease from the hand and cried the old friend, her
"first dance", a happy welcome contrary.

"Papa told me that we would meet here, and I was quite pleased.
"He squeezed her hand and spoke of joyful surprise, while he mustered
half but looking, half-embarrassed. Maggie thought of Gertrude and
what they should say now. He read to her from the eyes? He looked
really quite odd, it - begging, and researching and restless at the
same time. Or was it the everything? Almost seemed so. The head forester
was the Word, and Seckersdorf turned very quickly after him.

Also, the first cuts to a giant tree made, the head forester gave
some instructions.

Seckersdorf looked and listened with intense attention to. "I'm
learning," he said with apologetic look at Maggie. At that moment
came with the supervisor of a calculation in the head forester
approached.

"Of course!" Said the head forester after a short test. "Excuse me,
please, a moment, dear Seckersdorf." He came over to the people, and
Maggie stood alone beside Seckersdorf, with beating hearts and spähendem
furtive glance.

Yes, behind his motionless face worked there, his eyes betrayed's,
- so forward, but she was beautiful, this excitement, by him to her
hinüberströmte this question without words, that invented by one
to the other trembled.

Maggie would still have so many minutes are like in these clear,
harsh breathing the same air, because what this man felt.

And yet she gave a jerk. They had to begin. "Lord of Seckersdorf,"
she said, faltering. He listened to. »Sorry! If you speak softly, your
voice - "" similar to that of my sister, "they fell quickly.

"Yes, it is unfortunately the only one." He made a polite, she
saw movement and restless at. "How excited he is! "She thought. "Yes,
quite honestly, because it is my dear Gertrude, that I can speak,"
she said hastily, after the head forester look at.

He was shocked and followed her gaze distracted.

"Because of Mrs. Kurowski?" She nodded.

"Gertrud is fortgegangen by her husband," she said quickly, still
anxious as the father, looking after, "because in her rohester way
he has been suspected." "For God's sake - for my sake? "He made a
hasty movement, as if he wanted to take her arm." You must know,
"she said, quietly and quickly," because dad of a business relationship
with you said. They would have probably visited and, as Gertrude with
the children with us, probably omitted.

I think it is better that you take my poor sister did not return. ""
You think I should leave?

... Of course ... immediately ... if need be ... "His lips twitched
under the mustache.

"They have been treated is rude?"

He asked hesitantly.

Maggie nodded again.

"They do not want to return to Laukischken back ... but Dad will force
... talk about how ... "" How then, "said her looks. But she said there
is not enough. It was red and looked ahead into the woods, with
eyes from which a painful reminder seemed to speak. Maggie read
a long speech of his silent lips.

"Is it very ... much? "he asked after a pause. "Is she much changed in
these eight years?" "She is totally niedergebrochen," Maggie said
with emphasis.

"Not yet, not yet," he muttered. »White it that we, I mean you and I,
here today -" How it after a momentary connection between himself
and looked at her!

Truly, he is its still good, thought Maggie.

"God forbid," she said.

"One must think of everything away from her, what they worry ...

I mean, they should not ... "They paused, it was red and looked after
the site."

And you believe it is better if I'm going to go? "he asked urgently.
»Can I do nothing else, nothing for them to do?" They jerked the
armpits and made a move after the head forester, who just came back.
"Dad may know nothing about it," she said embarrassed.

He looked at it with gratitude. "They Gertrud love "- he was
shocked and improved -" Your wife's sister much? "" More than
anything in the world, "she said sincerely. "And lucky for her I
would bring every victim." In overflowing cordiality, he took her
hand. "Do you want to ... You may say ... "" What? "Then the head
forester in front of them and smiled happily." friendship? "he asked."
Alte renewed, "said Maggie."

Yes, then you were still a little girl, not always been taken away.
"" And now I have regular dance seven winter. "" Are we going to
Sunday over eight days in Waldlack be together?

"he asked, her eyes searching anxiously." Dad, you've concealed
that on Sunday Lacker, the Forest Society is, "Maggie turned to the
father. "Obviously, then, and I look forward to it. My sister, as a
straw widow, remains probably the whole winter at home, but I come,
where there is something to dance there. "" And always too much,
"laughed the head forester.

"But if you have the shock now want to watch just once, dear
Seckersdorf, then please ... You can relax for a moment here, baby.
We have still a long way back. "Maggie sat down on a stone, while the
men went to the workers.

The heart was her much and she felt worried. Well, so what was it really?
There was a man, beautiful and young, elegant, with bright prospects,
and saw his sweetheart again after nearly eight years - and although
no longer as Gertrude was beautiful, had heard another, mother and so
had become very different, quivered he is now, when he called her name.
And they ...

Kurowski was a handsome man, perhaps even more interesting than this -
but no - this Seckersdorf but had ruled in his quiet manner, quite
exceptionally attractive.

So their troubled thoughts wandered back and forth, and sometimes when
its slim - powerful figure in the tight Reitanzug between the trees
looked up, surprised they are on a small hint of envy.

Why they never met one of her beautiful masculine appearance, his
noble soul, and - not to forget - his riches offered Why came into
her life no man like this, the so-loyal look so firmly press the
hand was?

God, maybe it was all a bit boring, perhaps, if you are ever so
slightly einließ, Kurowski had to change his legal system.

And incidentally, what they mused about all this?

She had simply to do what they once made, and it was on track.

Gertrude was really pleased.

Then came the men. Seckersdorf farewell, recalling the dinner in
Waldlack that she promised him, pressed her hand, and meaningful
rode to the opposite direction. "Famos, as he rides," said Maggie,
looking after him. "Indeed, a magnificent man," agreed Foresters at
the top. »Do you think he had me by nachträgt? No trace! And what
do you mean, Döchting that Gertrude is not more dangerous. "He winked
with sly eyes." That you can not know, "replied Maggie seriously.
Monosyllabic, building castles in the air and destructive, they
went home through the fragrant forest. * * * * * Meanwhile, Gertrud
maiden with the wardrobe ordered had arrived and greetings from the
merciful Lord on your behalf, for in the coming days, before the
journey, once again would herüberkommen.

Gertrud was violently shocked, but soon saw a Letters to her
husband, who made almost simultaneously by post was that all the
Virgin applied to the shadow-boxing belonged, he exert popular.

"If you please, Mr. Machin--"

He turned. It was his typewriter, Miss Lindop, a young girl of some
thirty-five years, holding a tea-tray.

"But I've had my tea once!" he snapped.

"But you've not had your dinner, sir, and it's half-past eight!" she
pleaded.

He had known this girl for less than a month, and he paid her fewer
shillings a week than the years of her age--and yet somehow she had
assumed a worshipping charge of him, based on the idea that he was
incapable of taking care of himself. To look at her appealing eyes one
might have thought that she would have died to ensure his welfare.

"And they want to see you about the linoleum for the gallery stairs,"
she added timidly. "The County Council man says it must be taken up."

The linoleum for the gallery stairs! Something snapped in him. He
almost walked right through the young woman and the tea-tray.

"I'll linoleum them!" he bitterly exclaimed, and disappeared.


II


Having duly "linoleumed them," or rather having very annoyingly quite
failed to "linoleum them," Edward Henry continued his way up the
right-hand gallery staircase, and reached the auditorium, where to his
astonishment a good deal of electricity, at one penny three farthings
a unit, was blazing. Every seat in the narrow and high-pitched
gallery, where at the sides the knees of one spectator would be on a
level with the picture-hat of the spectator in the row beneath, had
a perfect and entire view of the proscenium opening. And Edward Henry
now proved this unprecedented fact by climbing to the topmost corner
seat and therefrom surveying the scene of which he was monarch. The
boxes were swathed in their new white dust-sheets; and likewise the
higgledy-piggledy stalls, not as yet screwed down to the floor, save
three or four stalls in the middle of the front row, from which the
sheet had been removed. On one of these seats, far off though it was,
he could descry a paper bag--probably containing sandwiches--and on
another a pair of gloves and a walking-stick. Several alert ladies
with sketch-books walked uneasily about in the aisles. The orchestra
was hidden in the well provided for it, and apparently murmuring
in its sleep. The magnificent drop-curtain, designed by Saracen
Givington, A.R.A., concealed the stage.

Suddenly Mr. Marrier and Carlo Trent appeared through the iron door
that gave communication--to initiates--between the wings and the
auditorium; they sat down in the stalls. And the curtain rose with a
violent swish, and disclosed the first "set" of "The Orient Pearl."

"What about that amber, Cosmo?" Mr. Marrier cried thickly, after a
pause, his mouth occupied with sandwich.

"There you are!" came the reply.

"Right!" said Mr. Marrier. "Strike!"

"Don't strike!" contradicted Carlo Trent.

"Strike, I tell you! We must get on with the second act." The voices
resounded queerly in the empty theatre.

The stage was invaded by scene-shifters before the curtain could
descend again.

Edward Henry heard a tripping step behind him. It was the faithful
typewriting girl.

"I say," he said. "Do you mind telling me what's going on here? It's
true that in the rush of more important business I'd almost forgotten
that a theatre is a place where they perform plays."

"It's the dress-rehearsal, Mr. Machin," said the woman, startled and
apologetic.

"But the dress-rehearsal was fixed for three o'clock," said he. "It
must have been finished three hours ago."

"I think they've only just done the first act," the woman breathed. "I
know they didn't begin till seven. Oh! Mr. Machin, of course it's
no affair of mine, but I've worked in a good many theatres, and I do
think it's such a mistake to have the dress-rehearsal quite private.
If you get a hundred or so people in the stalls then it's an audience,
and there's much less delay and everything goes much better. But when
it's private a dress-rehearsal is just like any other rehearsal."

"Only more so--perhaps," said Edward Henry, smiling.

He saw that he had made her happy; but he saw also that he had given
her empire over him.

"I've got your tea here," she said, rather like a hospital-nurse now.
"Won't you drink it?"

"I'll drink it if it's not stewed," he muttered.

"Oh!" she protested, "of course it isn't! I poured it off the leaves
into another teapot before I brought it up."

She went behind the barrier, and reappeared balancing a cup of tea
with a slice of sultana cake edged on to the saucer. And as she handed
it to him--the sustenance of rehearsals--she gazed at him and he could
almost hear her eyes saying: "You poor thing!"

There was nothing that he hated so much as to be pitied.

"You go home!" he commanded.

"Oh, but--"

"You go home! See?" He paused, threatening. "If you don't clear out on
the tick I'll chuck this cup and saucer down into the stalls."

Horrified, she vanished.

He sighed his relief.

After some time the leader of the orchestra climbed into his chair,
and the orchestra began to play, and the curtain went up again, on the
second act of the masterpiece in hexameters. The new scenery, which
Edward Henry had with extraordinary courage insisted on Saracen
Givington substituting for the original incomprehensibilities
displayed at the Azure Society's performance, rather pleased him. Its
colouring was agreeable, and it did resemble something definite. You
could, though perhaps not easily, tell what it was meant to represent.
The play proceeded, and the general effect was surprisingly pleasant
to Edward Henry. And then Rose Euclid as Haidee came on for the great
scene of the act. From the distance of the gallery she looked quite
passably youthful, and beyond question she had a dominating presence
in her resplendent costume. She was incomparably and amazingly better
than she had been at the few previous rehearsals which Edward Henry
had been unfortunate enough to witness. She even reminded him of his
earliest entrancing vision of her.

"Some people may _like_ this!" he admitted, with a gleam of optimism.
Hitherto, for weeks past, he had gone forward with his preparations in
the most frigid and convinced pessimism. It seemed to him that he had
become involved in a vast piece of machinery, and that nothing short
of blowing the theatre up with dynamite would bring the cranks and
pistons to a stop. And yet it seemed to him also that everything was
unreal, that the contracts he signed were unreal, and the proofs
he passed, and the posters he saw on the walls of London, and the
advertisements in the newspapers. Only the cheques he drew had the air
of being real. And now, in a magic flash, after a few moments gazing
at the stage, he saw all differently. He scented triumph from afar
off, as one sniffs the tang of the sea. On the morrow he had to
meet Nellie at Euston, and he had shrunk from meeting her, with her
terrible remorseless, provincial, untheatrical common sense; but
now, in another magic flash, he envisaged the meeting with a
cock-a-doodle-doo of hope. Strange! He admitted it was strange.

And then he failed to hear several words spoken by Rose Euclid. And
then a few more. As the emotion of the scene grew, the proportion of
her words audible in the gallery diminished. Until she became, for
him, totally inarticulate, raving away there and struggling in a
cocoon of hexameters.

Despair seized him. His nervous system--every separate nerve of
it--was on the rack once more.

He stood up in a sort of paroxysm, and called loudly across the vast
intervening space:

"Speak more distinctly, please."

A fearful silence fell upon the whole theatre. The rehearsal stopped.
The building itself seemed to be staggered. Somebody had actually
demanded that words should be uttered articulately!

Mr. Marrier turned towards the intruder, as one determined to put an
end to such singularities.

"Who's up theyah?"

"I am," said Edward Henry. "And I want it to be clearly understood in
my theatre that the first thing an actor has to do is to make himself
heard. I daresay I'm devilish odd, but that's how I look at it."

"Whom do you mean, Mr. Machin?" asked Marrier in a different tone.

"I mean Miss Euclid of course. Here I've spent heaven knows how much
on the acoustics of this theatre, and I can't make out a word she
says. I can hear all the others. And this is the dress-rehearsal!"

"You must remember you're in the gallery," said Mr. Marrier, firmly.

"And what if I am? I'm not giving gallery seats away to-morrow night.
It's true I'm giving half the stalls away, but the gallery will be
paid for."

Another silence.

Said Rose Euclid, sharply, and Edward Henry caught every word with the
most perfect distinctness:

"I'm sick and tired of people saying they can't make out what I say!
They actually write me letters about it! Why _should_ people make out
what I say?"

She quitted the stage.

Another silence....

"Ring down the curtain," said Mr. Marrier in a thrilled voice.


III


Shortly afterwards Mr. Marrier came into the managerial office, lit
up now, where Edward Henry was dictating to his typewriter and
hospital-nurse, who, having been caught in hat and jacket on the
threshold, had been brought back and was tapping his words direct on
to the machine.

It was a remarkable fact that the sole proprietor of the Regent
Theatre was now in high spirits and good humour.

"Well, Marrier, my boy," he saluted the acting-manager, "how are you
getting on with that rehearsal?"

"Well, sir," said Mr. Marrier, "I'm not getting on with it. Miss
Euclid refuses absolutely to proceed. She's in her dressing-room."

"But why?" inquired Edward Henry with bland surprise. "Doesn't she
_want_ to be heard--by her gallery-boys?"

Mr. Marrier showed an enfeebled smile.

"She hasn't been spoken to like that for thirty years," said he.

"But don't you agree with me?" asked Edward Henry.

"Yes," said Marrier, "I _agree_ with you--"

"And doesn't your friend Carlo want his precious hexameters to be
heard?"

"We baoth agree with you," said Marrier. "The fact is, we've done all
we could, but it's no use. She's splendid, only--" He paused.

"Only you can't make out ten per cent of what she says," Edward Henry
finished for him. "Well, I've got no use for that in my theatre." He
found a singular pleasure in emphasizing the phrase, "my theatre."

"That's all very well," said Marrier. "But what are you going to _do_
about it? I've tried everything. _You've_ come in and burst up the
entire show, if you'll forgive my saying saoh!"

"Do?" exclaimed Edward Henry. "It's perfectly simple. All you have to
do is to act. God bless my soul, aren't you getting fifteen pounds a
week, and aren't you my acting-manager? Act, then! You've done enough
hinting. You've proved that hints are no good. You'd have known that
from your birth up, Marrier, if you'd been born in the Five Towns.
Act, my boy."

"But haow? If she won't go on, she won't."

"Is her understudy in the theatre?"

"Yes. It's Miss Cunningham, you know."

"What salary does she get?"

"Ten pounds a week."

"What for?"

"Well--partly to understudy, I suppose."

"Let her earn it, then. Go on with the rehearsal. And let her play the
part to-morrow night. She'll be delighted, you bet."

"But--"

"Miss Lindop," Edward Henry interrupted, "will you please read to Mr.
Marrier what I've dictated?" He turned to Marrier. "It's an interview
with myself for one of to-morrow's papers."

Miss Lindop, with tears in her voice if not in her eyes, obeyed the
order and, drawing the paper from the machine, read its contents
aloud.

Mr. Marrier started back--not in the figurative but in the literal
sense--as he listened.

"But you'll never send that out!" he exclaimed.

"Why not?"

"No paper will print it!"

"My dear Marrier," said Edward Henry, "don't be a simpleton. You know
as well as I do that half-a-dozen papers will be delighted to print
it. And all the rest will copy the one that does print it. It'll
be the talk of London to-morrow, and Isabel Joy will be absolutely
snuffed out."

"Well," said Mr. Marrier, "I never heard of such a thing!"

"Pity you didn't, then!"

Mr. Marrier moved away.

"I say," he murmured at the door, "don't you think you ought to read
that to Rose first?"

"I'll read it to Rose like a bird," said Edward Henry.

Within two minutes--it was impossible to get from his room to the
dressing-rooms in less--he was knocking at Rose Euclid's door. "Who's
there?" said a voice. He entered and then replied: "I am."

Rose Euclid was smoking a cigarette and scratching the arm of an
easy-chair behind her. Her maid stood near by with a whisky-and-soda.

"Sorry you can't go on with the rehearsal, Miss Euclid," said Edward
Henry very quickly. "However, we must do the best we can. But Mr.
Marrier thought you'd like to hear this. It's part of an interview
with me that's going to appear to-morrow in the press."

Without pausing, he went on to read: "I found Mr. Alderman Machin, the
hero of the Five Towns and the proprietor and initiator of London's
newest and most up-to-date and most intellectual theatre, surrounded
by a complicated apparatus of telephones and typewriters in his
managerial room at the Regent. He received me very courteously. "Yes,"
he said in response to my question, "the rumour is quite true. The
principal part in 'The Orient Pearl' will be played on the first night
by Miss Euclid's understudy, Miss Olga Cunningham, a young woman of
very remarkable talent. No, Miss Euclid is not ill or even indisposed.
But she and I have had a grave difference of opinion. The point
between us was whether Miss Euclid's speeches ought to be clearly
audible in the auditorium. I considered they ought. I may be wrong.
I may be provincial. But that was and is my view. At the
dress-rehearsal, seated in the gallery, I could not hear her lines. I
objected. She refused to consider the objection or to proceed with the
rehearsal. _Hinc illae lachrymae_!" ... "Not at all," said Mr. Machin
in reply to a question, "I have the highest admiration for Miss
Euclid's genius. I should not presume to dictate to her as to her
art. She has had a very long experience of the stage, very long, and
doubtless knows better than I do. Only, the Regent happens to be my
theatre, and I'm responsible for it. Every member of the audience will
have a complete uninterrupted view of the stage, and I intend that
every member of the audience shall hear every word that is uttered on
the stage. I'm odd, I know. But then I've a reputation for oddness
to keep up. And by the way, I'm sure that Miss Cunningham will make a
great reputation for herself."

"Not while I'm here, she won't!" exclaimed Rose Euclid, standing up,
and enunciating her words with marvellous clearness.

Edward Henry glanced at her, and then continued to read: "Suggestions
for headlines. 'Piquant quarrel between manager and star-actress.'
'Unparalleled situation.' 'Trouble at the Regent Theatre.'"

"Mr. Machin," said Rose Euclid, "you are not a gentleman."

"You'd hardly think so, would you?" mused Edward Henry, as if mildly
interested in this new discovery of Miss Euclid's.

"Maria," said the star to her maid, "go and tell Mr. Marrier I'm
coming."

"And I'll go back to the gallery," said Edward Henry. "It's the place
for people like me, isn't it? I daresay I'll tear up this paper later,
Miss Euclid--we'll see."


IV


On the next night a male figure in evening dress and a pale overcoat
might have been seen standing at the corner of Piccadilly Circus and
Lower Regent Street, staring at an electric sign in the shape of
a shield which said, in its glittering, throbbing speech of
incandescence:

    THE REGENT

    ROSE EUCLID

    IN

    "THE ORIENT PEARL"

The figure crossed the Circus, and stared at the sign from a new point
of view. Then it passed along Coventry Street, and stared at the sign
from yet another point of view. Then it reached Shaftesbury Avenue
and stared again. Then it returned to its original station. It was the
figure of Edward Henry Machin, savouring the glorious electric sign of
which he had dreamed. He lit a cigarette, and thought of Seven Sachs
gazing at the name of Seven Sachs in fire on the façade of a Broadway
Theatre in New York. Was not this London phenomenon at least as fine?
He considered it was. The Regent Theatre existed--there it stood!
(What a name for a theatre!) Its windows were all illuminated. Its
entrance-lamps bathed the pavement in light, and in this radiance
stood the commissionaires in their military pride and their new
uniforms. A line of waiting automobiles began a couple of yards to the
north of the main doors and continued round all sorts of dark corners
and up all manner of back streets towards Golden Square itself.
Marrier had had the automobiles counted and had told him the number,
but such was Edward Henry's condition that he had forgotten. A row of
boards reared on the pavement against the walls of the façade said:
"Stalls Full," "Private Boxes Full," "Dress Circle Full," "Upper
Circle Full," "Pit Full," "Gallery Full." And attached to the ironwork
of the glazed entrance canopy was a long board which gave the same
information in terser form: "House Full." The Regent had indeed been
obliged to refuse quite a lot of money on its opening night. After
all, the inauguration of a new theatre was something, even in London!
Important personages had actually begged the privilege of buying seats
at normal prices, and had been refused. Unimportant personages--such
as those whose boast in the universe was that they had never missed
a first night in the West End for twenty, thirty, or even fifty
years--had tried to buy seats at abnormal prices, and had failed:
which was in itself a tragedy. Edward Henry at the final moment had
yielded his wife's stall to the instances of a Minister of the Crown,
and at Lady Woldo's urgent request had put her into Lady Woldo's
private landowner's-box, where also was Miss Elsie April, who "had
already had the pleasure of meeting Mrs. Machin." Edward Henry's first
night was an event of magnitude. And he alone was responsible for it.
His volition alone had brought into being that grand edifice whose
light yellow walls now gleamed in nocturnal mystery under the shimmer
of countless electric bulbs.

"There goes pretty nigh forty thousand pounds of my money!" he
reflected excitedly.

And he reflected:

"After all, I'm somebody."

Then he glanced down Lower Regent Street and saw Sir John Pilgrim's
much larger theatre, now sub-let to a tenant who was also lavish with
displays of radiance. And he reflected that on first nights Sir John
Pilgrim, in addition to doing all that he himself had done, would hold
the great _rôle_ on the stage throughout the evening. And he admired
the astounding, dazzling energy of such a being, and admitted
ungrudgingly:

"He's somebody too! I wonder what part of the world he's illuminating
just now!"

Edward Henry did not deny to his soul that he was extremely nervous.
He would not and could not face even the bare possibility that the
first play presented at the new theatre might be a failure. He had
meant to witness the production incognito among the crowd in the pit
or in the gallery. But, after visiting the pit a few moments before
the curtain went up, he had been appalled by the hard-hearted levity
of the pit's remarks on things in general. The pit did not seem to
be in any way chastened or softened by the fact that a fortune, that
reputations, that careers were at stake. Arguably takes forty-eight
hours without tasting food, as I confessed that before alerting her
husband, long before, and felt bad and could not eat the sueñecitos
.... This makes me not Tilin. For me, rather than drowsiness, fits
true. Don Pedro supported his head with dismay at the closed fist. -
I believe - said emphatically - that such things only happen to the
ladies and educated the people in certain impertinence and repulgos
.... They come to the girls around here with syncope and fainting
.... Fuel the body is half pot of wine and singing released this chore.
- No, sir, there is everything .... The nerve-lymphatic flatten
.... I have explained in detail several cases .... magazine business,
not yet, because it started to attend, as they say. He was expecting
the best is the midwife who knows more await. However, it
reaches a level that is losing a second to lose everything. In stating
this, taste sips of rum. - Sabel - called suddenly. - What do you
want, miss Max - the girl replied with a request. - Where do I have
a box to suit -- In your room, on the bed. - Ah, well. Don Pedro
looked at the doctor, realizing what it was. Julián not that scared
by the deep silence that followed the maximum of dialogue and Sabel,
indirectly interrogated to find out what mysterious locked box. -
Tools - said the doctor dry. - Instruments ... what?

- asked the chaplain, a feeling that you sweat dripping from the
hair root. - To operate it, what a devil! If you are able to hold
board of physicians, I might leave the thing go away by counting
his steps, but rests solely upon me the responsibility of what
happens. I did not cross their arms or leave as a surprise Bologna.
If the dawn has risen prostration and I see no clear signs that
it unravels ... must be determined. Now you can go pray to the blessed
San Ramon, Mr chaplain. - If you were praying! - Naively exclaimed
Julian -. Just since yesterday I have prayed! From simple confession
took the doctor to walk a thousand funny stories, which were mixed
donosamente devotion and obstetrics and played major role in San
Ramon.

Spoke of his teacher at the clinic in Santiago, that on entering the
room and see the birth of the holy stamp with their candles, I
used to shout angrily: "Gentlemen, or about me or about the Holy ....

Because if I blame my misfortune, and if we say well that was his
miracle ...».

It also means something quite grotesque about roses Jericho tapes
of the Virgin of Tortosa, and other pious talismans used in critical
circumstances.

Finally stopped in their talk, because he reported the dream, aided
by rum.

In order not lethargic at all in the comfort of the bed, on the
bank of tendióse dining room, by putting a pillow basket. The gentleman
across the table on both arms, had dropped them on the forehead and
whistle drowned a prelude of snoring, also announced that he wants to
skip sleeping. The high clock has weights with fatigued is midnight.
Julian was the only one awake, I felt cold in the spine and in the
cheeks burning fever.

He climbed to his room, and soaking the towel in cold water is
applied to the temples.

The altar candles were consumed, renewals, and placed a pillow on
the floor to kneel on it, as annoying as it always was happy tingling.

And he began to climb uphill the morale of the sentence. Sometimes
fainting, and his youthful body, wrapped in the gray mists of sleep,
wanted to clean the bed.

Then crossed his hands, nailing a nail into the back of another, to
wake up.

I wanted to pray with devotion, be aware of what they asked God not
to speak of memory. However, desfallecía. Acordóse of prayer in the
Garden and rightly so that difference between the decision of the
spirit and the flesh.

He also recalled a biblical passage: Moses prayed with arms raised,
because of downloading, Israel would be defeated.

Then it occurred to him to do something floating in the
imagination.

He took the pillow, keeping the joints based on the holy ground,
lifted his eyes, looking for God beyond the prints and the ceiling
beams and open arms in cross, began to pray fervently in that
position.

The atmosphere turned glacial, a dim light, the most opaque and livid
that of the moon appeared from behind the mountain. Two or three
birds in the garden Gorj, the rumor mill dam was less deep and
sollozante. The aurora, which was only supported one of their fingers
at the pink corner of the world, dared to extend all manecita,
and a cheerful glow, pure, bathroom slate rocks, making rebrillar
which burnish steel plate, and entered the quarter of the chaplain,
eating the yellow light of the candles. But Julian did not see the
dawn, I did not see any thing .... That is, it saw those lights
that turn on in our brain alteration of blood, rape the stars, green,
crimson, the color of sulfur, which vibrate with light, we perceive
the confused buzzing of the ears and the noise of giant pendulum of
the arteries, felt close to breaking .... fade and die, not his lips
and pronounced sentence, but a whisper, still retained tonillo prayer.
In the midst of his painful vertigo heard a voice that seemed as
resounding clarion .... The voice said something. Julian understood
only two words: - A girl. He wanted to join, exhaling a huge sigh,
and he did, helped by the person who entered was another but rather
primitive, but was barely standing, a dreadful pain in the joints,
a sense of blow to the skull poured to earth again.

Desmayóse. Abajo, Maximum Juncal washed their hands in the bowl
pewter sustained by Sabel. In his face wore the joy of triumph mixed
with the sweat of battle, which ran a half drops and frozen by
the cold dawn. The Marquis walked around the room ceñudo contracted,
sullen, with that stupid expression Torva and at the same time lack
of sleep is a strong person, very subject to the law of matter. - Now
rejoice, Don-Pedro "said the doctor -. The worst is past. It has
achieved what you wanted so much .... Do not you want to leave any
creature alive and undamaged? So there we have it, safe and sound.
Has cost jobs ... but in the end ....

Encogióse despicable shoulders the Marquis, as the merit of amenguando
optional and do not know what muttered between teeth, continuing
his tour in top-down and bottom up, with hands tucked in pockets,
the pants were so tight that the spirit of its owner. - It is an
angel, as the old - Juncal added mischievously, that seemed to
delight in the anger of the nobleman - only to female angel.

These things have to resign, was not invented how to write to the sky
and commissioning explaining sex to be .... Another espumarajo of anger
and rudeness came from the lips of Don Pedro.

Juncal began to laugh, to drying up the towel. - Half of the blame at
least have you, Marquis - exclaimed -. Would you please do me a
cigarette?

Petaca By offering the open, Pedro inquired.

Maximum regained the seriousness to answer it. - I have not said
so much as that ....

I think not.

True that when the battles are very stubborn and conflicted it may be
that the fighter is invalid, but the nature is very wise, subjecting
women to such a harsh test, also offers the most unimagined repairs
....

Now is not time to think about that, but that the mother be restored
and chiquita reared.

I fear some mishap immediately .... I am going to see ....

The lady had become so despondent .... Entered Primitivo, and without
alteration or fright show said that "Don subiese Maximus, that the
chaplain had given him something that was as dead." - Come on, man,
here we go .

This was not on the agenda - Juncal muttered. - What a woman has
that traces of cure! What little _estuche_! What is it not take
the Trabuco, but come to rise up with lines that go dreaming boar
abbot of Boán.

XVIII-Long-Nucha was arrested days before they call the dark gates
of death, with one foot on the threshold as saying: "I come in?

Do not go? ".

Empujábanla inside the horrific physical torture that had shaken
his nerves, fever, upset that his brain eater to invade your breast
the wave of milk useless, the sorrow of not being able to offer
your child that drowned the liquor, the exhaustion of its be the
life which he fled without dropwise tackle possible.

But seeking out youth, yearning to exist in any body that stimulates
the science of the great hygienist Juncal, particularly a small
hand, coloradilla, soft, a punitive closed lace peeked through a
bedroom and the folds of a shawl.

The first day that Julian could see the sick, many who did not get up,
to lie, wrapped in blankets and coats on ancient and wide canapé .
It was not even permitted to join, and his head resting on folded
into the cushions. Enflaquecido his face and a yellow face exangüe
image ivory, among the shining black hair.

More cross-eyed, having been weakened by the time the optic nerve.

The chaplain smiled gently, and he drew a chair.

Julian stuck in it that look where rebosaba compassion whistleblower
who look in vain we hold and switch off when we approach a serious
illness. - I find you very good countenance, young lady - the
chaplain said lying like a rogue. - Well, you - she lánguidamente
- is somewhat deteriorated.

He confessed that indeed he was not good since ... since I was a
little cold.

He was ashamed to mention the sleepless night, the faint, the strong
moral and physical suffering for that reason.

Nucha started talking about some indifferent, and passed without any
transition to ask: - Have you seen the tiny? - Yes, ma'am .... On the
day of baptism. ¡Angelito!

He wept when he was good and when the salt water felt cold .... - Ah!
Since then it has grown at least one quarter and has become beautiful.
And raising his voice and efforts, he added: - Love, love! Bring the
girl. Oyéronse colossal statue of steps that walk, and entered the
mocetona color of earth, very Orondo your new dress blue merino edged
strip of black velvet, with which resembled the traditional gigantona
Cathedral Santiago called the _Coca_. As a bird perched on thick
trunk, was the innocent creature lying in the breast that nourished
magno. I was asleep, and was calm, the gentle breathing and insensitive
which makes the dream of holy children. Julian does not look so
tired. - Santita God! - Murmured the lips stay in the hat too,
for not daring to face. - Hang on to that key you Julián ....

You will see what you weigh. Ama, give the girl .... Do not weigh
more than a bouquet of flowers, but the chaplain perjuró and vowed
that seemed made of lead. She looked up the love, and he was sitting
with the kid in her arms. - Déjemela begged a little ...-- -. Now,
while you sleep ....

No insurance will awaken in a long time. - You make the call
when needed. Ama, go. "The conversation turned on a very helpful
and very dear to Nucha: thanks for the little ....

He had many, yes sir, and you doubted it would be a great pestle.
For example: open eyes with incomparable mischief; sneezing flask with
mischief, with her hand pressed the hand of anyone, so strong,
that required the strength of a Hercules for disengaged and grace
even in other, better streets for archived by the chronicle.

Refer to the face exangüe of Nucha encouraged, her eyes sparkled
and her lips laughed delayed two or three times.

But suddenly his face clouded over, so much so that the tabs you
danced tears, which did not exit. - I have left criarla, Julián ....

Hobbies lord of Juncal, which applies to all health and return to health,
hygiene and give it to ....

It seems to me that would not die for two months to try, just two months.
You might find me better than I am and not having to spend a century
stuck on this couch, subject to the body and the imagination and
release by these crazy worlds of God .... Why would not rest joy:
I always figure that strangles the girl loves me or let me down.

Now I'm happy, teniéndola near here.

He smiled to the kid asleep, and added: - Do you find you like ...?

- With You - With his father!

... Todito he is in the cut on the forehead .... No chaplain expressed
his opinion. Moved topic and continued the following day and that meet
the charitable act of visiting the sick. In the slow convalescence
and total solitude Nucha missing him that someone is devoted to
such pious motion. Maximum Juncal came one day and not
another, but almost always in a hurry, because it would take
extensive clientele: he was called up to Vilamorta. The doctor spoke
of a policy exhaling breath of rum fog, trying to click and amoscar
to July, and in fact, if Julian was able to amostazarse, which would
bring the news to Max.

All churches were demolished, scandals antireligious, set here and
Protestant chapels ACULLICO, freedom of teaching, worship, this and
the other ....

Julian simply deplore excessive size, and hope that things are arranged,
which was not material to build a maximum of one of their favorite
trifulcas as beneficial to spread your bile and so fertile in
adventures when faced with internal and Carlists cures, such as the
Boán or Arcipreste.

While the war was no doctor, everything was peace and quiet in the
room of the sick.

Only what troubled tears, promptly silenced, the little girl.

The chaplain read the _Año cristiano_ loudly and environment stories
poblábase flavored romantic and poetic: "Cecilia, illustrious young
and beautiful Roman lady, devoted his body to Christ; desposáronla
his parents and a gentleman named Valerian was made with many wedding
parties, dances and revelries ....

Only the heart of Cecilia was sad ...».

Followed the story of the mystical wedding night, the conversion
of Valerian, of the angel to save Cecilia ensures its purity, with
the denouement of the epic and glorious martyrdom.

Other times it was a soldier, such as San Menna, a bishop, as San
Severo ....

The story, detailed and dramatic, the questioning of the judge
concerned, the answers briosas and free of the martyrs, torture,
flogging with nerves ox, the ecúleo, iron nails, axes burning applied
to the side ...

And Edward Henry felt as though somebody,
mistaking his face for a slice of toast, had spread butter all over
it. Even the paper's parting assurance that the future of the higher
drama in London was now safe beyond question did not remove this
delusion of butter.

The two following newspapers were more sketchy or descriptive, and
referred at some length to Edward Henry's own speech, with a kind of
sub-hint that Edward Henry had better mind what he was about. Three
illustrated papers and photographs of scenes and figures, but nothing
important in the matter of criticism. The rest were "neither one
thing nor the other," as they say in the Five Towns. On the whole,
an inscrutable press, a disconcerting, a startling, an
appetite-destroying, but not a hopeless press!

The general impression which he gathered from his perusals was that
the author was a pretentious dullard, an absolute criminal, a genius;
that the actors and actresses were all splendid and worked hard,
though conceivably one or two of them had been set impossible
tasks--to wit, tasks unsuited to their personalities; that he himself
was a Napoleon, a temerarious individual, an incomprehensible fellow;
and that the future of the intellectual-poetic drama in London was
not a topic of burning actuality.... He remembered sadly the
superlative-laden descriptions, in those same newspapers, of the
theatre itself, a week or two back, the unique theatre in which the
occupant of every seat had a complete and uninterrupted view of the
whole of the proscenium opening. Surely that fact alone ought to have
ensured proper treatment for him!

Then Nellie woke up and saw the scattered newspapers.

"Well," she asked, "what do they say?"

"Oh!" he replied lightly, with a laugh. "Just about what you'd
expect. Of course you know what a first-night audience always is. Too
generous. And ours was, particularly. Miss April saw to that. She
had the Azure Society behind her, and she was determined to help Rose
Euclid. Perhaps the instinct of cowardice of his own race to move
them a few minutes crouching behind a bush or a rock, but at first
imperceptible effluents love that brings the wind shear, the first
breath of the female to be a highlight of the odor pine resin exhaled
by the ardent pursuers will be launched again and with more verve,
blind love, desire convulsed, and the hunter that stalks one by one
will be tending to his feet on the grass beds have dreamed that
wedding.

-XXIII-The Heart of the tender Ulloa was the heir to the chaplain, for
some time, a completely happy and victorious rival: Perucho. He made
enough to succeed. Came a day when the tip of the feet, and no direction
was up against the crib. Nucha offered occasional sweets and coins, and
rapacious, as often happens to the beasts domesticated contracted
excessive familiarity and attachment, and work hard to get there,
encontrándosele everywhere, where least expected, as a kitten small
flaws in the care and company. Very much attention was called to the
Alice Chaos soon. Chickens or break when the new shell, or the
pups Linda nor recentales the cow, they never set eyes and stunned by
Perucho. He could not realize how or where it had been such a great
novelty, on this issue was lost in thoughts.

Ceaselessly around the crib, putting at risk of receiving some notorious
pescozón of love, and not expelled, it was a good piece with the finger
in the mouth, absorbed and enthralled, more than ever like the cherubs
of the gardens say with the attitude: "Silence." He had never seen so
many quiet hours. So the girl began to have inklings of awareness of
life outside, gave clear evidence that if she was interested to
Perucho, he did not care less Perucho it. Both characters then
acknowledged their mutual importance, and this recognition remained
obvious signs of harmony and joy. Just saw a kid Perucho, shone their
ojuelos, his mouth ajar and went, together with the crystalline and
warm baba of dentition, a amorosísimo chirp. Tended hands eagerly,
and Perucho, understanding the order on the head by closing the
eyelids, so small to satisfy their yearning, pulling his hair
ensortijado taste, placing the tip of fingers in the mouth, ears
and nose, all accompanied by the same chirp, and streaky with shrieks
of joy when, for example, was right in the ear hole.

After the first two or three months of lactation, the genius of
children is sour, and their tears and tantrums are frequent, because
they start the precursor phenomena of teeth to bother.

When this happened to your child, Nucha used with good results using
the talisman of the presence of Perucho.

    One day the berrenchín did not cease, it was going to file
    more heroic: Perucho seated in a low silleta arms and put him
    in the Alice Chaos. He was still, motionless, with eyes
    wide open and fixed, without daring to breathe, so beautiful, that
they want to eat it.

The small, without transition, he had gone from anger to calm, laughing
and opening an inch of toothless mouth, laughing with the lips,
the look, the dancers feet, which discharged pataditas often in the
thigh Perucho.

Did not dare return to the predator or the head of pure happy. As the
kid looked more Perucho managed to bring toys were invented by him and
the endless fun. No one knows what that galopín went to find something
new at every turn, whether flowers, and birds live, crossbows and cane,
and all kinds of crap, that was what the little more enthusiasm.

Presenting perhaps with a frog tied by one leg, bolts in grotesque
contortions, or ufanísimo came with a mouse acabadito born, so small
and scared, which was unfortunate.

Cachidiablo that was the specialty of animated toys. In his _pucho_
broken and holes stored lizards, butterflies and _mariquitas of
Dios_ in their pockets and breast, nests, fruit and worms.

Miss you kindly pulled the ears. - How to bring back such Ascos ...
here, see, see.

I have to hang the fireplace and the chorizos to get smoked. Julián
transigía these intimacies, while not surprised the secret of other
less innocent enough.

Since dawn he had seen leaving the room Sabel Pedro, overturning
dábale blood every time they encountered the boy and noticed the
affection with which he dealt Nucha sometimes.

One day the chaplain came into the room and found Miss an unexpected
event.

In the center of a colossal barreñón camera humeaba earthenware,
filled with warm water, and closely embraced and naked, the boy
holding the girl in her arms, and were Perucho Ulloa's heir in the
bathroom.

Nucha, squat watching the band. - There were no other means of
reducing it to swim - said to warn of Julian's admiration - and Max
said that as a gift for you .... the bathroom - I do not knock I
it - said the chaplain - but for him who fears him more water to
the fire. - A swap with the baby - replied Nucha - makes it even
bathe fish in hot .

There you have them in their glory. Does not look like a pair of siblings?
Al unintentionally utter the phrase, Nucha, from the ground, stood
looking toward Julian.

The decomposition of the face it was so instant, so telling, so
eloquent, so deep, that Mrs.

Moscoso, relying on a hand, are irguió suddenly getting up in
front of him.

At that face consumed by the long illness, and under whose skin
is traslucía venous branching in those eyes vague, wide pupil and
cornea moist, almost bluish dark circles, and saw Julian lit flares
black lashes after a horrible light, where burning certainty, the
surprise and horror.

Silent.

He had no courage to utter a single sentence, and dissimulation to
compose her features altered.

The child's welfare in the warm bath, smiling, and Perucho, sustained
by the armpits, speaking with tender loving diminutives of excitement,
the swing in the liquid transparent, it opened to receive the legs
everywhere fresh water, with religious care imitating what she had
seen a practice Nucha.

It happened at the scene of a smaller room of the house, divided in
two by huge screen and maltratadísimo of the last century,
quite fantastically painted with unbelievable landscapes: trees in
a row that seemed to blunt lettuce, cheese-like mountains of San
Simón, clouds to make the rolls, and houses with red roof, two windows
and a door, always facing the viewer.

Concealing the screen bed Nucha of golden forelock and columns, and the
cot of the child. Motionless for the space of a few seconds, the lady
suddenly regained action.

Tilted toward the basin and started hitting his daughter in his
arms Perucho.

The creature, surprised and scared by the sudden movement, interrupted
in his enjoyment, broke into tears and sudden disconsolate, and his
mother, without making a case, came running behind the screen, threw
it in the cradle, and half the clothes, turning to leave immediately.

Perucho still remained in the water, amazed asaz; Asio miss him on the
shoulder, hair, everywhere, and pushing cruelly, as he was naked,
chased him up the hall to remove empellones. - Get out of
here! - read more pale than ever and with eyes blazing -. Do
not you see me in! ... As you whip again, okay?, You whip! Passed
after the screen again, and Julian followed stunned, not knowing
what happened to him. With the head down, lips temblones, Ms. Moscoso
arranged without disguise desatiento of hands, the diapers of her
daughter, which had already mourn inflections penalty as elder. -
Call to love you - ordered Nucha dry.

Julián ran to obey. At the door of the hall will close the
passage something lying on the floor, lifted his foot, was Perucho,
naked, crouching.

You will not be heard crying: veíase only the brightness of the thick
lagrimones and upset the flow of the chest. Compadecida the chaplain,
the creature lifted.

Its meat, still wet, were bruised and rigid. - Get your clothes on - he
said -. Take her to your mother for you to view. Calla. Insensible as
a Spartan to poor physical, Perucho only thinking about the injustice
done to him. - It was bad ...-- balbució, drowning -.

No-ha-ci - a-bad ... none ... not again .... with love Julian, but the
creature took longer to console the chest. Put the mouth on the nipple,
and then suddenly twisted his face, made pots, started a crying
whining.

Nucha with automatic walk, left the toilet trained by the screen
and approached the window, making a sign that the Julian continue.

And demudados both were silently contemplated a few minutes, asking her
to look imperious, and he resolved to deceive, to lie. There are problems
that are raised in cold blood in times of trouble, the instinct to
solve the safety wonderful. Julian was determined to miss the truth
without scruple. After Nucha delivered with deaf accent: - I believe
is the first time that I can think of that ... kid is ... son of my
husband. I did already, only it was like lightning, scraps of those
things that one hardly sees. Now ... we are in another case. Just
look at your face .... you - Jesus! , Miss Marcelina! What does my
face ... Not heated, please do not is heating ....

And this force is a thing of the devil! Jesus a thousand times! -
No, said she heats me, breathing hard by the going and the palm
facing out. - Válgame God!

Miss, you are going wrong. It has become .... I am seeing a color
that gives the attack. Want the teaspoon - No, no and no, that's
nothing a little choke in his throat.

This is ... I notice many times it's like a ball to me so there ....

At the same time I think that augers the temple .... When necessary
the case. Decláreme what you know. No street at all. - ...--
Miss Julian then decided, in its interior to appeal to that callers
Jesuitical subterfuge, and it is only natural resource of all,
they abhor the lie, they are compelled to fear the truth -- .

Miss denies .... my face. What he has to happen! I was not thinking
about such a thing.

No, ma'am, no.

The wife drive more eyes on the chaplain's and made two or three
specific questions, strict.

Here the Jesuits, rather the truth fuck where no or short plays. - I
can believe, and saw that it did not like to say one other thing:
I do not know who the little boy.

Nobody knows for certain. It seems natural that is the darling of
the girl. - Are you sure you have ... dear? - How far is that day.
- And that is a dear boy villager - Yes Madam, a rapacious handsome
indeed, who plays the bagpipes during the festival of Naya and
everywhere .

I've seen come here a thousand times last year, y. .. walking
together.

What's more, I am trying to get the papers to get married. Yes Madam, I
know. You see that you breathe again .... Nucha, taking the right
hand to the throat, which no doubt he was oppressing the proverbial
drowning.

Their factions rather calmly, without regaining his usual composure and
charming gentleness: persistent wrinkle in entrecejo, lost in the
look. - My girl ...-- articulated in a low voice - my girl embraced
with he!

Although you say .... and law and perjure Julian, this must be remedied.
How am I going to live this way?

Now I should warn you before!

If the boy and the woman will not leave here, I was crazy again.

I am sick and these things hurt me ... damage.

He smiled bitterly and said: - I have little luck ....

I have not done wrong to anyone, I like a married dad, and look at you
How will I fix things! - .... Miss - I do not deceive you also stressed
the _también_. You have grown up in my house, Julian, and me is
you and the family. You do not have another friend. Aconséjeme. -
Miss - "said the chaplain with fire - I would remove all the trouble
you might have in the world, although it cost the blood of the
veins. - Or the woman marries and leaves - pronounced Nucha - o.
... here interrupted the sentence.

There are critical moments in the mind two or three strokes solutions
violent, extreme, and language, more cowardly, does not dare to make.
- But, Miss Marcelina, not mate well - Julian obstinacy -. Figurations
are, lady, figurations. She took it between his hands, burning. - Tell
you that my husband take, Julián. For love of God and his holy mother!
Contact those feverish palms, the prayer, the chaplain of a troubled
inexplicable way, and without thinking said: - So many times I
have said!

- Go you! -- "replied she, shaking her head and crossing her hands.
Mute. In the countryside could be heard the hoarse cawing of the crows,
after the screen, the girl whining, inconsolable. Nucha shuddered two
or three times. Finally giving articulated with the knuckles on the
glass of the window - then I am .... The chaplain muttered as read: -
Miss .... God .... Do not stir the head .... Leave it .... Mrs. Moscoso
eyes closed and supported in the face of the glass window. Sought to
contain the energy and serenity of his character wanted to leave so
undone afloat storm. But an earthquake shook their shoulders, which
reveals the tyranny of the nervous system on his weakened body.
Tremor, finally, was decreasing and ceasing .... Nucha again, with
dry eyes and nerves and tamed.-XXIV-Shortly after underwent a metamorphosis
to live in the sleepy and numb Pazos. There came a most powerful
sorceress that Mrs Mary knew the policy, if such a name deserves
enredijo of intrigue and misery in the village receives it.

Everywhere covering the mantle of political interests and selfish
bastards, apostasy and wickedness, but at least in the populous
capital, the surface appearance, and sometimes the efforts of the
lid, have grandiose character.

Ennobles the fight the palenque of magnitude; ambition is greed,
and material sacrifices in order, sometimes at the end of the perfect
victory for the victory.

In the field, even by hypocrisy or histrionics are apparently less
general purpose and high.

Ideas do not come into play, but only people, in the most miserable:
bitterness, hatred, quarrels, loss of miserable, microbiological
vanity. A naval combat into a pond. It must be recognized, however,
that at the time of the revolution, the political exaltation, faith
in the theory has led to fanaticism, succeeded in infiltrating everywhere,
cleaning up the hurricane with gusts of mefítico atmosphere of
intrigue Daily in the villages. Then lived in Spain pending a
discussion of Cortes, a cry that was here or ACULLICO in workshops
or in an arsenal vericuetos of a mountain, and every fortnight or
every month, they waved, it was discussed, sought finally resolve
profound issues, issues that the legislator, the statesman and the
sociologist needs to mature slowly, meditating perhaps decrypt whole
years before, and that a crowd in Revolution decide within hours
through a heated congressional debate, or a blatant demonstration
and street .

Between lunch and the food is reformed, it is an innovated company,
smoking a cigar were discovered new principles, and at the bottom
of the vortex battled two major solutions to race, both because they
were supported by strong secular _algo_ slowly seasoned heat of history:
the absolute monarchy and constitutional monarchy disguised by then
democratic.

The shock of the crash reached everywhere, without excepting the
beasts close to the mountains Pazos de Ulloa.

Also there is politics.

In the taverns of zebras, the day of the fair, could be heard talking
about religious freedom, individual rights, the abolition of fifths,
federation plebiscite unsecured-pronunciation, of course -. The priests,
at the end of the functions, funerals and solemn masses, was delayed
in the atrium, discussing some recent signs with heat and elocuentísimos,
the first output of those famous _cuatro sacristanes_, and other
offal.

The gentleman from Limioso, inveterate traditionalist, like his father
and grandfather, had two or three trips to the mysterious part of
the Miño, crossing the border into Portugal and susurrábase celebrating
Tuy interviews with some birds afirmábase that the ladies of Molende
were built ocupadísimas cartridge and I do not know what more warlike
harness, and secrets for each step were warnings that it was going
to perform a search of his home.

However, understood and practiced in the art understand that any
attempt at gunpoint in Galician territory would be in water cerrajas,
and more rumors about who did arms and organization in Portugal,
came from all ranks, appointment of officers, etc..

The real battle is being fought there would not be in the fields,
but the ballot box, so no more bloodless.

Ruled the country at the time the two formidable warlords, a lawyer
and secretary of the council the other zebra, the Village and the
region comarcana trembling under the power of both.

Perpetual antagonists, their struggle, like the Roman dictators,
but should not end with the loss and death of one.

Write a chronicle of their exploits, their revenge, their management,
was never-ending story. For anyone to think that his exploits were a
thing of laughter, it is important to note that some of the crosses
found by traveling the trails, some charred roof, a man buried in
prison for life, could give a reason for such bitter antagonism.

It knowing that neither had political opponents, giving it a damn
of what was discussed then in Spain, but by strategic necessity,
embodied and represented a trend, and each party: Barbican moderated
before the Revolution, stating now Carlist; Trampeta, unionist under
O'Donnell, was moving towards the final boundary of liberalism
winner.

Barbacana was more serious, more authoritative, more obstinate and
implacable revenge on staff, more accurately deal the blow, the
more greedy and hypocritical, covering more their perfidious
desmantecar to trace the hapless settler, was also a man who preferred
to use legal means and manage the code, saying that there is no way
so sure to end with an enemy like wallpaper if not guarnecían crosses
many roads because of Barbican, stinking prisons district yesterday,
hogan and the walls of Ceuta and Melilla, could reveal how far it
extended its influence.

Instead Trampeta, if not negligible, justifying his nickname of legal
entanglements, often come with more precipitation and violence
Barbican, ensuring the withdrawal less skillfully, so it is that
his opponent was caught several times between gates, and not wiped
out by point.

Trampeta had great fertility in retaliation ingenuity, great boldness,
unimagined records to come out with the most serious commitments.
Barbican better served to prepare an ambush from your room, after
stealing the body; Trampeta to run in person and fortune. The county
entrambos hated to, but more terror Barbacana inspired by his dark
genius.

Trampeta At that time, to represent the ideas and officers, was
believed safe to impunity, but to burn half zebra and beaten,
prosecutions and other attachment medium.

Barbacana with the superiority of their intelligence, and even their
education, understand two things: first, that a wall was leaning
more strongly, to people who do not desampara his friends, second,
that when on a whim to go weapons and backgrounds to the field
opposite would always sink Trampeta.

He had already pulled their lines for the next event of the election
of deputies.

Trampeta with dizzying activity, _hacía the cama_ the government
candidate.

Very often went to the provincial capital, to confer with the governor.
On such occasions, the secretary, estimates that forewarned is forearmed
two pistols or forgot or omitted to be escorted by their most
determined Seiden, because it knew that its officers had Barbacana
mozos of chest hair, for example of the dreaded Tuerto Castrodorna.

Each trip was a good vine for the secretary, and very beneficial for
them: little by little makes Barbican iban of falling, and tobacconists,
alguacilatos, the prison guard, peones road, all the staff officer
of Zebra, with a Trampeta taste.

Just could not put the tooth to the court, protected by a relative
high regions of the judge, individual viso.

Also obtained that would turn a blind eye on many things, turned a
blind eye on others, and respect to some day on total blindness, and
with this and with the powers of cans that was invested, he said,
placing his hand on his chest, which responded to the election of
zebras. During this period, the Barbican was dead, merely weakly
supported, for commitment, the candidate proposed by the Board Carlist
Orense, and recommended by the Archpriest of the Loire and more
active treatments, such as the Boán, the Naya, the Ulloa.

Well let Barbacana did not understand that faith in the success.

The candidate was an excellent person of Orense, educated, consecuentísimo
traditionalist, but rooted in the country with a reputation for
little political mischief. Its not a very good fellow with him, by
conceptualizing the firm that most men of action and intrigue. So that
Primitivo was felt, the largest of the montero Pazos, a zebra came
very often, and as there all repairs, we also observed that, in
addition to the usual stations in the taverns, Primitivo spent long
hours at home in Barbican.

It was almost blocked at home, because Trampeta, emboldened with
the intoxication of power, PROFERI threats, ensuring that Barbacana
receive your payment within a _corredoira_ (way deep).

However, he risked leaving in the company of Primitivo, and go and
come viéronse influential priests and chieftains subordinates,
many of which were also the Pazos, some eating, others in the
afternoon.

And since there is no well-kept secret among three, and least three
dozen, the country and the government soon learned the great news:
the candidate of the Board withdrew willingly, and instead supported
Barbican, with the name of independent , Don Pedro Moscoso, known
as the Marquis of Ulloa.

Since he learned of the plot, the attack seemed Trampeta St.

Vitus dance. Retail travel to the capital: they were to hear their
explanations and comments in the office of governor. - Everything weapon
- he said - that pig Arcipreste of priming coupled with the cure
of the factious Boán and instigating the foreman of the moneylender
the Pazos, which in turn breaks into dance to the spoiled gentleman,
who is embroiled with her daughter.

What a candidate! - Frantic cried - what a candidate choose the neos!
¡Siquiera was another honest person!

And the voice rose a lot in reaching this honesty. Seeing that the
chief governor perdía absolutely cold-blooded, she realized that
he was wrong stop, and asked him harshly: - did not answer you in
the election, any candidate to be present - Yes sir, yes sir ...--
answered hastily Trampeta -.

But consider: Who had such a thing from another world?

Abuses of speech, of pure rage and spite, insisted that no one imagined
that the Marquis de Ulloa, a gentleman who only thought of hunting
a miss is political, that despite the great influence of the house
and carry his name enough prestige among the peasants, aristocrats
and priests mountain, attempting a mind cumin if not your account
has taken Barbican and do not help a powerful chieftain ratings,
which ranged from before the match and the Barbican Trampeta, but
this time it had been decided, and was the foreman of Pazos,
determined man and subtle as a fox, many votes that have insurance,
because many people will be rooms of the house had exhausted Ulloa
whose expense is enriched with dissimulation and that this solemn
rascal, leaning to the large Barbican defendant was alzaría with
the district, if not pursue the matter and the letter inside.

It's
something right deep down. There, there!"

The lubricant voice rolled on while Rentoul Smiles manipulated the
camera. He clasped the bulb again and again threw it dramatically
away.

"I'm through!" he said. "Don't expect anything very grand,
Miss Isabel. What I've been trying to do this afternoon is my
interpretation of you as I've studied your personality in your
speeches. If I believed wholly in your cause, or if I wholly
disbelieved in it, my work would not have been good. Any value that
it has will be due to the sympathetic impartiality of my spiritual
attitude. Although"--he menaced her with the licensed familiarity of a
philosopher--"although, lady, I must say that I felt you were working
against me all the time.... This way!"

(Edward Henry, recalling the comparative simplicity of the London
photographer at Wilkins's, thought: "How profoundly they understand
photography in America!")

Isabel Joy rose and glanced at the watch in her bracelet, then
followed the direction of the male hand and vanished.

Rentoul Smiles turned instantly to the other doorway.

"How do, Rent?" said Seven Sachs, coming forward.

"How do, Seven?" Mr. Rentoul Smiles winked.

"This is my good friend, Alderman Machin, the theatre-manager from
London."

"Glad to meet you, sir."

"She's not gone, has she?" asked Sachs, hurriedly.

"No, my housekeeper wanted to talk to her. Come along."

And in the waiting-room, full of permanent examples of the results of
Mr. Rentoul Smiles's spiritual attitude towards his fellow-men, Edward
Henry was presented to Isabel Joy. The next instant the two men and
the housekeeper had unobtrusively retired, and he was alone with his
objective. In truth, Seven Sachs was a notable organizer.


III


She was sitting down in a cosy-corner, her feet on a footstool, and
she seemed a negligible physical quantity as he stood in front of her.
This was she who had worsted the entire judicial and police system of
Chicago, who spoke pentecostal tongues, who had circled the globe,
and held enthralled--so journalists computed--more than a quarter of
a million of the inhabitants of Marseilles, Athens, Port Said, Candy,
Calcutta, Bangkok, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Hawaii, San Francisco, Salt Lake
City, Denver, Chicago, and lastly, New York! This was she!

"I understand we're going home on the same ship!" he was saying.

She looked up at him, almost appealingly.

"You won't see anything of me, though," she said.

"Why not?"

"Tell me," said she, not answering his question, "what do they say
of me, really, in England? I don't mean the newspapers. For instance,
well--the Azure Society. Do you know it?"

He nodded.

"Tell me," she repeated.

He related the episode of the telegram at the private first
performance of "The Orient Pearl."

She burst out in a torrent of irrelevant protest:

"The New York police have not treated me right. It would have cost
them nothing to arrest me and let me go. But they wouldn't. Every man
in the force--you hear me, every man--has had strict orders to leave
me unmolested. It seems they resent my dealings with the police in
Chicago, where I brought about the dismissal of four officers, so they
say. And so I'm to be boycotted in this manner! Is that argument, Mr.
Machin? Tell me. You're a man, but honestly, is it argument? Why, it's
just as mean and despicable as brute force."

"I agree with you," said Edward Henry, softly.

"Do they really think it will harm the militant cause? Do they
_really_ think so? No, it will only harm me. I made a mistake in
tactics. I trusted--fool!--to the chivalry of the United States. I
might have been arrested in a dozen cities, but I on purpose reserved
my last two arrests for Chicago and New York, for the sake of the
superior advertisement, you see! I never dreamt--! Now it's too late.
I am defeated! I shall just arrive in London on the hundredth day. I
shall have made speeches at all the meetings. But I shall be short of
one arrest. And the ten thousand pounds will be lost to the cause. The
militants here--such as they are--are as disgusted as I am. But they
scorn me. And are they not right? Are they not right? There should be
no quarter for the vanquished."

"Miss Joy," said Edward Henry, "I've come over from London specially
to see you. I want to make up the loss of that ten thousand pounds as
far as I can. I'll explain at once. I'm running a poetical play of
the highest merit, called 'The Orient Pearl,' at my new theatre in
Piccadilly Circus. If you will undertake a small part in it--a part
of three words only--I'll pay you a record salary, sixty-six pounds
thirteen and four-pence a word--two hundred pounds a week!"

Isabel Joy jumped up.

"Are you another of them, then?" she muttered. "I did think from the
look of you that you would know a gentlewoman when you met one!
Did you imagine for the thousandth part of one second that I would
stoop--"

"Stoop!" exclaimed Edward Henry. "My theatre is not a music-hall--"

"You want to make it into one!" she stopped him.

"Good day to you," she said. "I must face those journalists again, I
suppose. Well, even they--! I came alone in order to avoid them. But
it was hopeless. Besides, is it my duty to avoid them--after all?"

It was while passing through the door that she uttered the last words.

"Where is she?" Seven Sachs inquired, entering.

"Fled!" said Edward Henry.

"Everything all right?"

"Quite!"

Mr. Rentoul Smiles came in.

"Mr. Smiles," said Edward Henry, "did you ever photograph Sir John
Pilgrim?"

"I did, on his last visit to New York. Here you are!"

He pointed to his rendering of Sir John.

"What did you think of him?"

"A great actor, but a mountebank, sir."

During the remainder of the afternoon Edward Henry saw the whole of
New York, with bits of the Bronx and Yonkers in the distance, from
Seven Sachs's second automobile. In his third automobile he went to
the theatre and saw Seven Sachs act to a house of over two thousand
dollars. And lastly he attended a supper and made a speech. But he
insisted upon passing the remainder of the night on the _Lithuania_.
In the morning Isabel Joy came on board early and irrevocably
disappeared into her berth. And from that moment Edward Henry spent
the whole secret force of his individuality in fervently desiring the
_Lithuania_ to start. At two o'clock, two hours late, she did start.
Edward Henry's farewells to the admirable and hospitable Mr. Sachs
were somewhat absent-minded, for already his heart was in London. But
he had sufficient presence of mind to make certain final arrangements.

"Keep him at least a week," said Edward Henry to Seven Sachs, "and I
shall be your debtor for ever and ever."

He meant Carlo Trent, still bedridden.

As from the receding ship he gazed in abstraction at the gigantic
inconvenient word--common to three languages--which is the first
thing seen by the arriving, and the last thing seen by the departing,
visitor, he meditated:

"The dearness of living in the United States has certainly been
exaggerated."

For his total expenses, beyond the confines of the quay, amounted
to one cent, disbursed to buy an evening paper which had contained a
brief interview with himself concerning the future of the intellectual
drama in England. He had told the pressman that "The Orient Pearl"
would run a hundred nights. Save for putting "The Orient Girl" instead
of "The Orient Pearl," and two hundred nights instead of one hundred
nights, this interview was tolerably accurate.


IV


Two entire interminable days of the voyage elapsed before Edward Henry
was clever enough to encounter Isabel Joy--the most notorious and the
least visible person in the ship. He remembered that she had said:
"You won't see anything of me." It was easy to ascertain the number
of her state-room--a double-berth which she shared with nobody. But it
was less easy to find out whether she ever left it, and if so, at what
time of day. He could not mount guard in the long corridor; and
the stewardesses on the _Lithuania_ were mature, experienced and
uncommunicative women, their sole weakness being an occasional
tendency to imagine that they, and not the captain, were in supreme
charge of the steamer. However, Edward Henry did at last achieve his
desire. And on the third morning, at a little before six o'clock, he
met a muffled Isabel Joy on the D deck. The D deck was wet,
having just been swabbed; and a boat--chosen for that dawn's
boat-drill--ascended past them on its way from sea-level to the dizzy
boat-deck above; on the other side of an iron barrier, large crowds
of early-rising third-class passengers were standing and talking and
staring at the oblong slit of sea which was the only prospect offered
by the D deck; it was the first time that Edward Henry aboard had
set eyes on a steerage passenger; with all the conceit natural to the
occupant of a costly state-room, he had unconsciously assumed that he
and his like had sole possession of the ship.

Isabel responded to his greeting in a very natural way. The sharp
freshness of the summer morning at sea had its tonic effect on both of
them; and as for Edward Henry, he lunged and plunged at once into the
subject which alone preoccupied and exasperated him. She did not seem
to resent it.

"You'd have the satisfaction of helping on a thing that all your
friends say ought to be helped," he argued. "Nobody but you can do it.
Without you there'll be a frost. You would make a lot of money, which
you could spend in helping on things of your own. And surely it isn't
the publicity that you're afraid of!"

"No," she agreed. "I'm not afraid of publicity." Her pale grey-blue
eyes shone as they regarded the secret dream that for her hung always
unseen in the air. And she had a strange, wistful, fragile, feminine
mien in her mannish costume.

"Well then--"

"But can't you see it's humiliating?" cried she, as if interested in
the argument.

"It's not humiliating to do something that you can do well--I know you
can do it well--and get a large salary for it, and make the success of
a big enterprise by it. If you knew the play--"

"I do know the play," she said. "We'd lots of us read it in manuscript
long ago."

Edward Henry was somewhat dashed by this information.

"Well, what do you think of it?"

"I think it's just splendid!" said she with enthusiasm.

"And will it be any worse a play because you act a small part in it?"

"No," she said shortly.

"I expect you think it's a play that people ought to go and see, don't
you?"

"I do, Mr. Socrates," she admitted.

He wondered what she could mean, but continued:

"What does it matter what it is that brings the audience into the
theatre, so long as they get there and have to listen?"

She sighed.

"It's no use discussing with you," she murmured. "You're too simple
for this world. I daresay you're honest enough--in fact, I think you
are--but there are so many things that you don't understand. You're
evidently incapable of understanding them."

"Thanks!" he replied, and paused to recover his self-possession. "But
let's get right down to business now. If you'll appear in this play
I'll not merely give you two hundred pounds a week, but I'll explain
to you how to get arrested and still arrive in triumph in London
before midnight on Sunday."

She recoiled a step and raised her eyes.

"How?" she demanded, as with a pistol.

"Ah!" he said. "That's just it. How? Will you promise?"

"I've thought of everything," she said musingly. "If the last day was
any day but Sunday I could get arrested on landing and get bailed
out and still be in London before night. But on Sunday--no--! So you
needn't talk like that."

"Still," he said, "it can be done."

"How?" she demanded again.

"Will you sign a contract with me if I tell you?... Think of what your
reception in London will be if you win after all! Just think!"

Those pale eyes gleamed; for Isabel Joy had tasted the noisy flattery
of sympathetic and of adverse crowds, and her being hungered for it
again; the desire of it had become part of her nature.

She walked away, her hands in the pockets of her ulster, and returned.

"What is your scheme?"

"You'll sign?"

"Yes, if it works."

"I can trust you?"

The little woman of forty or so blazed up. "You can refrain from
insulting me by doubting my word," said she.

"Sorry! Sorry!" he apologized.


V


That same evening, in the colossal many-tabled dining-saloon of the
_Lithuania_ Edward Henry sat as usual to the left of the purser's
empty chair, at the purser's table, where were about a dozen other
men. A page brought him a marconigram. He opened it and read the
single word "Nineteen." It was the amount of the previous evening's
receipts at the Regent, in pounds. He was now losing something like
forty pounds a night--without counting the expenses of the present
excursion. The band began to play as the soup was served, and the ship
rolled politely, gently, but nevertheless unmistakably, accomplishing
one complete roll to about sixteen bars of the music. Then the entire
saloon was suddenly excited. Isabel Joy had entered. She was in the
gallery, near the orchestra, at a small table alone. Everybody became
aware of the fact in an instant, and scores of necks on the lower
floor were twisted to glimpse the celebrity on the upper. It was
remarked that she wore a magnificent evening-dress.

One subject of conversation now occupied all the tables. And it was
fully occupying the purser's table when the purser, generally a little
late, owing to the arduousness of his situation on the ship, entered
and sat down. Now the purser was a northerner, from Durham, a
delightful companion in his lighter moods, but dour, and with a high
conception of authority and of the intelligence of dogs. He would
relate that when he and his wife wanted to keep a secret from their
Yorkshire terrier they had to spell the crucial words in talk, for
the dog understood their every sentence. The purser's views about
the cause represented by Isabel Joy were absolutely clear. None
could mistake them, and the few clauses which he curtly added to the
discussion rather damped the discussion, and there was a pause.

"What should you do, Mr. Purser," said Edward Henry, "if she began to
play any of her tricks here?"

"If she began to play any of her tricks in this ship," answered the
purser, putting his hands on his stout knees, "we should know what to
do?"

"Of course you can arrest?"

"Most decidedly. I could tell you things--" The purser stopped, for
experience had taught him to be very discreet with passengers until he
had voyaged with them at least ten times. He concluded: "The captain
is the representative of English law on an English ship."

And then, in the silence created by the resting orchestra, all in the
saloon could hear a clear, piercing woman's voice, oratorical at first
and then quickening:

"Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to talk to you to-night on the subject
of the injustice of men to women." Isabel Joy was on her feet and
leaning over the gallery rail. As she proceeded a startled hush
changed to uproar. And in the uproar could be caught now and then a
detached phrase, such as "For example, this man-governed ship."

Possibly it was just this phrase that roused the northerner in the
purser. He rose and looked towards the captain's table. But the
captain was not dining in the saloon that evening. Then he strode to
the centre of the saloon, beneath the renowned dome which has been so
often photographed for the illustrated papers, and sought to destroy
Isabel Joy with a single marine glance. Having failed, he called out
loudly:

"Be quiet, madam. Resume your seat."

Isabel Joy stopped for a second, gave him a glance far more homicidal
than his own, and resumed her discourse.

"Steward," cried the purser, "take that woman out of the saloon."

The whole complement of first-class passengers was now standing
up, and many of them saw a plate descend from on high and graze
the purser's shoulder. With the celebrity of a sprinter the man
of authority from Durham disappeared from the ground-floor and was
immediately seen in the gallery. Accounts differed, afterwards, as to
the exact order of events; but it is certain that the leader of the
band lost his fiddle, which was broken by the lusty Isabel on the
purser's head. It was known later that Isabel, though not exactly in
irons, was under arrest in her state-room.

"She really ought to have thought of that for herself, if she's as
smart as she thinks she is," said Edward Henry, privately.


VI


Though he was on the way to high success his anxieties and solicitudes
seemed to increase every hour. Immediately after Isabel Joy's arrest
he became more than ever a crony of the Marconi operator, and began
to dispatch vivid and urgent telegrams to London, without counting the
cost. On the next day he began to receive replies. (It was the most
interesting voyage that the Marconi operator had had since the sinking
of the _Catherine of Siena_, in which episode his promptness through
the air had certainly saved two hundred lives.) Edward Henry could
scarcely sleep, so intense was his longing for Sunday night--his
desire to be safe in London with Isabel Joy! Nay, he could not
properly eat! And then the doubt entered his mind whether after all he
would get to London on Sunday night. For the _Lithuania_ was lagging.
She might have been doing it on purpose to ruin him. Every day, in the
auction-pool on the ship's run, it was the holder of the lower field
that pocketed the money of his fellow-men. The _Lithuania_ actually
descended below five hundred and forty knots in the twenty-four hours.
And no authoritative explanation of this behaviour was ever given.
Upon leaving New York there had been talk of reaching Fishguard on
Saturday evening. But now the prophesied moment of arrival had been
put forward to noon on Sunday. Edward Henry's sole consolation was
that each day on the eastward trip consisted of only twenty-three
hours.

Further, he was by no means free from apprehension about the personal
liberty of Isabel Joy. Isabel had exceeded the programme arranged
between them. It had been no part of his scheme that she should cast
plates, nor even break violins on the shining crown of an august
purser. The purser was angry, and he had the captain, a milder man,
behind him. When Isabel Joy threatened a hunger-strike if she was not
immediately released, the purser signified that she might proceed with
her hunger-strike; he well knew that it would be impossible for her to
expire of inanition before the arrival at Fishguard.

The case was serious, because Isabel Joy had created a precedent.
Policemen and Cabinet Ministers had for many months been regarded
as the lawful prey of militants, but Isabel Joy was the first of the
militants to damage property and heads which belonged to persons
of neither of those classes. And the authorities of the ship were
assuredly inclined to hand Isabel Joy over to the police at Fishguard.
What saved the situation for Edward Henry was the factor which saves
most situations--namely, public opinion. When the saloon clearly
realized that Isabel Joy had done what she had done with the pure
and innocent aim of winning a wager, all that was Anglo-Saxon in the
saloon ranged itself on the side of true sport, and the matter was
lifted above mere politics. A subscription was inaugurated to buy
a new fiddle, and to pay for shattered crockery. And the amount
collected would have purchased, after settling for the crockery,
a couple of dozen new fiddles. The unneeded balance was given to
Seamen's Orphanages. The purser was approached. The captain was
implored. Influence was brought to bear. In short, the wheels that are
within wheels went duly round. And Miss Isabel Joy, after apologies
and promises, was unconditionally released.

But she had been arrested.

And then early on Sunday morning the ship met a storm that had a sad
influence on divine service; a storm of the eminence that scares even
the brass-buttoned occupants of liners' bridges. The rumour went round
the ship that the captain would not call at Fishguard in such weather.
Edward Henry was ready to yield up his spirit in this fearful crisis,
which endured two hours. The captain did call at Fishguard, in pouring
rain, and men came aboard selling Sunday newspapers that were full
of Isabel's arrest on the steamer, and of the nearing triumph of her
arrival in London before midnight. And newspaper correspondents also
came aboard, and all the way on the tender, and in the sheds, and
in the train, Edward Henry and Isabel Joy were subjected to the
journalistic experiments of hardy interviewers. The train arrived at
Paddington at 9 P.M. = Fischer = [1] "dragging us through the whole
life, and often bursts on them in the tremendous effort of a whole
life." While we respect that very glaring exceptions to this rule are
known. It is, for example, of the recently deceased American = = Jay
Gould noted that as a poor shepherd boy in America and immigrated
as an unprecedented millionaire died.

These exceptions or luck cases can not and should not be denied,
but they are only extremely rare exceptions, which do not overturn
the rule.

Usually, the rank and wealth for individual families or stands or
walks for long indefinite periods.

Fortunately, missing the oppressed classes of society, has the full
awareness or the full sensation of their situation.
And then had followed the appalling scene with Rose Euclid. Rose,
leaving the theatre for lunch, had beheld workmen removing her name
from the electric sign and substituting that of Isabel Joy! She was
a woman and an artist, and it would have been the same had she been a
man and an artist. She would not submit to this inconceivable affront.
She had resigned her _rôle_. She had ripped her contract to bits and
flung the bits to the breeze. Upon the whole Edward Henry had been
glad. He had sent for Miss Cunningham, who was Rose's understudy,
had given her her instructions, called another rehearsal for the
afternoon, and effected a saving of nearly half Isabel Joy's fantastic
salary. Then he had entered into financial negotiations with four
evening papers and managed to buy, at a price, their contents-bills
for the day. So that all the West End was filled with men and boys
wearing like aprons posters which bore the words: "Isabel Joy to
appear at the Regent to-night." A great and an original stroke!

And now he gazed through the peep-hole of the curtain upon a crammed
and half-delirious auditorium. The assistant stage-manager ordered him
off. The curtain went up on the drama in hexameters. On the other hand,
is = my = program of social reform in a clear, transparent and without
use of force may be feasible when it will be managed, the majority
of people in a peaceful way is the subject of justice, and of its
usefulness and need to convince. The choice between two paths of
social liberation could, therefore, seems to me not be difficult.
By the way the author wants from the Social Democracy will not
leave without her to accept the merit of that established by their
agitation a large and important class people to the unfortunate
and Unsatisfactory living conditions of their attention, and that
the other excitation to multiple meeting and addressing the social
question has ever given.

This is also without merit solve the social question in the socialist
sense of achieving a better social future of its fruit.

If, however, the author in an assessment of the social teachings
are wrong says he is ready to accept instruction.

He is not applause, but only about truth and improvement. Because
he finds it with the fools in Shakespeare = = »What Your wollt,"
which is saying: 'The more friends, the worse the more enemies the
better.

Because of my friends I will be deceived, while I by my enemies to
increasing self-knowledge.

"In view of this idea believe the same argument above is close to be a
Citations of beautiful words of our great poet = Rückert Lieder
=:" The mistake by the truth travel, these are the ways.

The mistake at the insist these are the fools. "NOTES 1 The freedom
of human will, Leipzig 1871st 2 Duisburg 1865. 3 All the earth,
Leipzig 1893rd 4 The social science of anthropology, Paris the
1880th 5 History of the conquest of Peru, Leipzig. 6 The social
problems and inheritance.

       

       

On a chair
by his side were a number of letters to which he had just dictated
answers. At a neighbouring table a young clerk was using a typewriter.
Stretched at full length on the sofa was Robert Machin, engaged in the
perusal of the second edition of that day's _Signal_. Of late Robert,
having exhausted nearly all available books, had been cultivating
during his holidays an interest in journalism, and he would give great
accounts, in the nursery, of events happening in each day's instalment
of the _Signal's_ sensational serial. His heels kicked idly one
against the other.

A powerful voice resounded in the lobby, and Dr Stirling entered the
room with Nellie.

"Well, doc.!" Edward Henry greeted him.

Because one night seemed once again, as so often, about the neighbor's
house across the full moon in the bay window of the third floor and
painted with a bluish light, the little round disks on the floor.

"Of course he's in full blast!" said Nellie with calm conviction.

"What's this I hear about ye ganging away to the seaside, Saturday?"
asked the doctor.

"Well, can't I?" said Edward Henry.

"Ye can," said the doctor. "Let's have a look at ye, man."

"What was it you said I've had?" Edward Henry questioned.

"Colitis."

"Yes, that's the word. I thought I couldn't have got it wrong. Well,
you should have seen my mother's face when I told her what you called
it. She said, 'He may call it that if he's a mind to, but we had
another name for it in my time.' You should have heard her sniff!...
Look here, doc., do you know you've had me down now for pretty near
three months?"

- The hunger had not killed him, but by the lack of food, his body
withered and eingeschwunden, and so he was over the years have
become smaller and smaller. Sometimes in Vollmondnaechten like this,
he was awakened and had, albeit with a weaker force to escape his
Waechter searched. Was he from the futile efforts fell exhausted on
the couch or the last hinaufgekrochen, and then had to sleep
bleierne attacked him again, then stretched and Graps Schnor outside
in front of the stairs out with its tail whipped the ground and
listened, whether Mrs Ankens new treasures Wanderzuege of mice into
the house lured had said.

Today it was different, the cats were not in the room or outside
on the corridor.

When the window by the moonlight falling on the floor and away slowly
at the small figure hinaufrueckte, she began to rain, the big round
eyes opened, and Mr.

Bulemann stared into the empty room beyond. After a while he
slipped, long sleeves Muehsam zurueckschlagend from the canapés and
gradually slow down the door, while the width of the train behind him
sleep Rocks herfegte. At the foot peaks after the cross-jack, he succeeded
in the Stubentuer to open up and outside on the grounds of the stairs
vorzuschreiten. For a while he is panting, then he stretched his head
and tried to cry out: "Mrs. Anken, Anken woman!"

But his voice was just like the whisper of a sick child.

"Mrs. Anken me hungry, so you hear it!" All remained silent, only the
mice squeak now heavily into the lower rooms. Because he was angry.
"Witch, cursed, because what you whistling?"
Stirling, Edward Henry was in reality defending himself against
the accusations of his wife--accusations which, by the way, she had
never uttered, but which he thought he read sometimes in her face. He
might of course have told his wife these agreeable details directly,
and in private. But he was a husband, and, like many husbands, apt to
be indirect.

Nellie said not a word.

"Then you're giving up London?" The doctor rose to depart.

"I am," said Edward Henry, almost blushing.

"Why?"

"Well," the genius answered. "Those theatrical things are altogether
too exciting and risky! And they're such queer people--Great Scott!
I've come out on the right side, as it happens, but--well, I'm not as
young as I was. I've done with London. The Five Towns are good enough
for me."

Nellie, unable to restrain a note of triumph, indiscreetly remarked,
with just the air of superior sagacity that in a wife drives husbands
to fury and to foolishness:

"I should think so indeed!"

Edward Henry leaped from his chair, and the swansdown quilt swathed
his slippered feet.

The noise made by the top down, the moaning smooth leather, a voice
seemed ironic that he responded: "So, for that very reason." "It
will be possible!

- Mumbled the chaplain's good -. It will be possible for the abjection,
the indignity, the filth of sin itself attracts, stimulates, is an
appetizer, such as chili peppers rage, for the palate ravages of
the slave of vice!

And this fall, no people more or less, but gentlemen of birth, rank,
men who ...».

Robert, now alone with the ignored young clerk tapping at the table,
turned towards him, and in his deliberate, judicial, disdainful,
childish voice said to him:

"Isn't father a funny man?"