The most ungrateful not to speak of the spots.

Speak of the grateful light. Bolívar was a small body. The eyes would flash,
and the words he was leaving his lips. It seemed as if he was always waiting
when riding.

It was his country, his country down, which weighed on the heart,
and not let him live in peace.

America as a whole is waking up.

A man just is not worth any more than a whole village, but there
are men who are never tired, when his people were tired and decided
to war before the people, because they have to consult anyone but
themselves and peoples have many men, and can not be found so soon.

That was the merit of Bolívar, which is not tired of fighting for
freedom in Venezuela, where it appeared that Venezuela is tired.

They had defeated the Spaniards: he had been kicked out of the country.
He went to an island to see about his land, to think of their land. A
generous black helped him when no longer wanted to help anyone. He returned
one day to fight, with three heroes, the three liberators. Freedom to
Venezuela.

Freedom to the New Granada. Freedom in Ecuador. Freedom in Peru. He founded
a new nation, the nation of Bolivia. He won battles with soldiers
sublime barefoot and half naked.

Everything shook and filled with light around it.

The generals fought alongside them with supernatural value. It was an army
of young people. Never fought thus was fought or better in the
world for freedom.

Bolívar no fire defended both men's right to govern themselves, as
the right of America to be free.

The envious exaggerated its defects. Bolivar died in spite of the heart,
rather than the wrong body, in a Spanish house in Santa Marta. He died
poor, leaving a family of peoples.

Mexico was courageous men and women who were not many, but many
valuable: half a dozen men and women how to prepare for his country.

There were a few brave young people, the husband of a liberal woman,
and a cure for people who loved the Indians, a priest of sixty years.
From childhood Hidalgo was a priest of the good race of those who
want to know.

Those who do not want to race are bad. Hidalgo knew French, who was then
something of merit, because he knew little.

Read the books of the philosophers of the eighteenth century, which
explained the right of man to be honest, and to think and speak without
hypocrisy. He saw the black slaves, and was filled with horror.

Saw mistreating the Indians, who are so gentle and generous, and sat
between them like a brother man, to teach fine arts to learn the
Indus: the music that consoled; breeding worm, which gives the silk;
breeding of the bee, which gives honey.

She had fire in it, and he liked to make: he created ovens to bake the
bricks. We saw a lot of shine occasionally green eyes. All said they
spoke very well, knew that much again, gave many alms to the priest
of the village of Dolores. They said they went to the city of Queretaro
that one again, to talk to a few brave and the husband of a good
lady.

A traitor told a Spanish commander of the gang trying to make Queretaro
Mexico free.

The priest rode on horseback, with all his people, who wanted him as his
heart, he joined the caporales and the servants of the haciendas,
which were cavalry, the Indians were going to walk with sticks and
arrows, or slings and spears.

He joined a regiment and took a convoy of powder that was for the Spaniards.
Celaya triumphant entry, with live music and.

The day brought together the City, did so general, and people began
to be born.

Comfortable. With carpets. And a Bechstein must not be missing. And
you play Chopin. "" I? "" Yes, this would not be beautiful?

So very weltfern only loneliness, nature. Music, books - "" You
are the purest Romanticists yes, "they broke him."

But do you look into it since. This wonderful walks in the dunes, beach
at night. "" And when we come home, we work together to peel
potatoes, roast seal on a skewer and cook tea. "" You scoff again.

"He was really irritated. She laughed hell out." The feeling now than
derision when I almost think the bare minimum. They would be able, without
a home pantry to build. "" The will also be there. "" Then that's
it hears differently.

So not only music and sentiment. Yes, I want it to me superior. It would
be something else. At the end of which still appear to be anschlössen.
"" For God's sake! Does not get a third! That is precisely the main point,
only two. "" Just the two of us?

"He said no, yes. He just laughed. What idea, you mean to say
everything.

And to be sensitive that it was not serious!

5th Randers pondered whether it would not be better, he traveled from.
he wanted to wait until he really was in love with her? marriages but he
could not. He would not marry, even if he would be safe, do not get
to basket . He had his pride, and he had his very particular views about
misalliance. He had principles, a marriage with her excluded. So do not
run after her, like a high school love?

He thanked. For it was indeed still no love, only aesthetic pleasure,
respect and everything else.

But the danger was seen around the corner. Yesterday, between the ears as
they herging before him, in the sun dipped, from time to time, the
head immediately after him, that he had the warm, glowing Sammet
saw her soft cheeks, the graceful curve of the neck - he had an ear
to the other grains and plucked by the fingers, so that the impulse
to suppress.

Yes, he wanted to move away. The whole story did not end. But in a
few days of the hunt should be opened, the count had invited him, and he
had to be happy. "childish," as he had said to Fides. When he departed so
suddenly, what reason should he give? Now hundred reasons. There were
all sorts of what could retrieve him. But perhaps it was but after
escaping from, or indifference. So a few days, a few hunting days. But
away from here but now he had earnestly longing for the North Sea.
All this was so not in his plan.

A few weeks ago, he had already lost Grashof.

And finally they had to think it was just her. Because it was not madness,
without reasonable cause in this pitcher einzupferchen ?

6 The castle was visiting arrived. Randers heard it on the people on the
field. visit in a sailboat. Whether he went? He was very curious.
visit, which came in a sailboat. That was interesting. He was interested
in so for sailing.

And who might that be, who has a sailboat. He met only Fides in the salon
and a foreign lady, a small, lively, inconspicuous person with
good shapes, very pretty, brown eyes and a somewhat coarse and
lively Complexion.

"Does the healthy," he thought. "Miss Kruger," Fides noted before. So
nothing nobles. A quiet disappointment. The lady looked at him
with undisguised curiosity at.

He read much out of their eyes: "So this is it "" I Miss Krueger tells
you, "Fides said the same. Randers bowed themselves." They are for
your health here, Herr Doktor? "asked the lady."

This is not just. "" I thought das " She looked questioningly Fides.
"However," he said quickly.

Fides If it had said, he wanted nothing else to say. "I travel at my leisure
or diversion, which is often the same thing."

"The Herr Doktor raves for the See, "Fides said." They have first hand
you are here, "said the lady. As usual, it expresses thought
Randers. And her voice sounds like a rusty ship's bell." They have come
with the sailboat, gracious lady? " "Yes, you have seen it?" "I heard
it from people. With your husband Lord? "" My brother. "Both ladies
painstakingly suppressed a smile. He called her and asked lady after
her husband Lord." Ach so!

Pardon, "he excused himself and was all over red." The Doctor is a great
sailor, "Fides said." There is a captain in him was lost. "Was that sarcasm?
He smiled a little forced." Since you will be certainly our marina
view, it is completely new, an excellent Seeboot, "said the ship's bell."
If you allow, I would be very interested. "" Perhaps you're a ride
with Mr.

Krueger? " Fides said. "He would certainly be pleased, he is so proud
of his yacht and they like to hear praise." "Yes, that is his weak
side," stressed the lady. "I really wanted to leave tomorrow," said
Randers.

He was still not determined, but it suddenly came over him, he had
to say he wanted to see how it aufnähme.

"So suddenly?" Fides said. It seemed seriously surprised. "But why so
fast?

Do you no longer with us? I thought you wanted to join the hunt?"
"Yes, so I thought not," he said. "See" she cried triumphantly. It was
her so at his stay.

And they made it no secret, even in the presence of strangers.

"Papa has your word, incidentally," Fides said. "Then, of course."
Then they all together besahen the yacht.

Randers admired the young landowner, a big beautiful man, slender, muscular,
with good-natured, wettergebräunten face. He looked quite like a sailor.
A bushy, dark-blond mustache concealed something unique in this Ugly
face, big mouth. The young man laughed often and loudly, as his sister,
and then showed he has two beautiful rows of white, solid teeth. The can
bite through Segeltau thought Randers.

Every time the young man laughed, the idea came to him: "He may bite
through Segeltau." "What do you mean?" Fides said. Randers was shocked
and red.

Had he said it loud? "I mean, whether you be a Segeltau can bite through."
She looked at him surprised, smiled briefly and said: "What you
have strange ideas."

The yacht was really very pretty. It was painted entirely white, had
a small cabin on board, was on a long pole, rotseidenen pennants. On
the mirror was covered with gold letters: tern. "A pretty name," said
Randers. "It is the fastest boat around here," said Mr. Krueger. "It runs
its twelve-three ten miles an hour." He spoke mainly to Randers and it
seemed for a great connoisseur to keep. Randers had very careful if he had
not wanted to oneself. Once he wanted to say: "I understand not so much
of it." And he would have said that if Fides not there. But now he said
it is not, but always just nodded his head when the others again a
technical term used, he could not understand. They both had the same caps
on white caps, and they both had the storm band under the chin. Whether
Fides be respected?

The Count Randers asked what he in the last two days have been
driven, he would have not even seen.

Yes, what had he driven? He had a few hours on the beach and the sea
hinausgeträumt, and was a few hours' walk wrong. "Pending Großenbrode
after." "Because you would have to be equal so we can come over
here," Ms.

Krueger said. "Have you been on Fehmarn?" "No." "But come and check it
out," invited the young man. "I bring you back to the boat. I'll pick
you off." "You should do that," spoke to the Count. "They learn at the
same time in Sassnitz Well aware of a model economy."

Mr. Krueger laughed good-natured, half-flattered, half-repellent
modest. "Do good, dear Kruger. Everything is right. Absolutely exemplary,"
said Graf So a model man, Randers thought and a nice guy. What has he
for teeth! And he has a yacht! Randers got even lust with him a boat
traffic jam in between the teeth to slide.

What he probably for a facial would make? Randers had to laugh.

The idea was too silly, but he could not get rid of him. It always had
to face the young man's mind when he sent a boat jam between your teeth
would move. He had it last no longer watch. When the company went back
into the castle, Randers is recommended.

The sisters laughed him too much. And he liked people suffer no pattern.
Nobody asked him to stay, even Fides not.

He was therefore superfluous. They want to stay! 7th, when the boat two
hours later against the wind into the sea? What Randers stood on the
beach and looked after him.

It was a breeze stramme Northeast, which pushed the sail. Like an arrow
shot by the white car the waves.

It shone on the deep blue of the water. When Randers zusammenkniff eyes,
it made him look like a big, white bird, the waves on the densely
pfeilte out.

The yacht was quite right.

If they umschlüge? Whether they could swim? This swell would not help
them and in this distance. The young man was certainly a good swimmer, but
it would not help him, he would have to be down. "Then he can not
marry Fides." Randers said the very loud. He followed every movement
of the yacht. Now put it into action. "Brilliant ! he called and was
directed to half.

     Like an arrow shot the terns returned to the Rose Hagener shores. As
     he sat at the helm now, laughed, and showed the large, white teeth.

Laughed about it, perhaps, over a remark made by the ship's rusty
bell on him. Perhaps they also talked about Fides.

They were very familiar with Fides been certainly often came over
from Sassnitz. Incidentally, no bad taste of the young man but the
devil! What were the thoughts on?

Was he jealous? Wollte he Henning Randers, because Fides Bruckner marry?
And then, how ridiculous! The fine teeth and the economic model made
the young man not yet equal. Komtesse Fides Bruckner and Mr.

Krueger, landowner on Fehmarn. The yacht ran again seaward. Randers
climbed the steep bank hinan height. He wanted to host the model no
longer nachgaffen. "Du morning go That's all nonsense!" he said aloud.
He was at a large fallow field came across went over, climbed on a Hecktor
and followed a narrow foot climb along a pasture where a few Kätnerkühe
beaten and wiederkäuten. How dumb staring at the animals. He stood
before them, staring at it again, and after chewing fact annoyed her.
You could not do wrong, chewed the ears and moving. "Happy beef," said
Randers loud. "Eternal equanimity lush satisfaction." Sprang from the
bend a small, barefoot boy, to the loud speaking attracted. "Is dat din
KöHÉM?" Randers asked. "Nee." "Listen to de 'n Haf?" Nee. "" Who
hears se denn? "Peemöller sin." Wat deihst you here for? "The boy
turned to lay off." Mugg du woll happy 'n groschen hebben? "The face of
local broadcast, but he remained silent. Randers gave him a ten-penny
piece and went on. When he was on the road came out, he hesitated. Rixdorf
The roof of the mansion shone in the sun between the high trees across
the park. He felt a desire for Fides, a jealous desire to her about the
Sassnitz to speak. But there was no pretext of a second visit that
day would have been excused.

He went into the jug, drank a shot and sat down in the small porch
behind the house.

It smelled here after the pigsty, and the fowls came and begging. Sch,
sch, he chased them.

They stayed at a distance are on one leg, twisted the necks and winked
at him. But he had nothing left for them. He scribbles in his diary.
8 A couple of warm, soft rain days came, and in Randers was the best
mood. It was as if he was missing only this rain. The sky was uniformly
cloudy, humid and leaves everything shiny.

Resistant trickling from the trees, the hedges hung in thousands of
sparkling beads at the grasses, to the ears that are still uncut
in the fields stood, and the ears that are already in zusammengehockt
sheaves were.

And the roses in the park did not know where all the water, bowed their
heads and let it in big, heavy drops on the black bed covers.

And protruding from the roof of the veranda trickling in uneven
rhythm on the stone steps to the garden stairs, Gluck in the rain
gutter and splashes from the eaves into the big bin.

Randers had his chair close to the staircase moved, sat bent forward, her
hands between folded knees, and drank the soft rain music with
raptured ear.

He was quite happy in a gentle, happy, grateful mood. He was now two
days in the castle. They had it in this weather is not in his
miserable habitation purposes.

He had finally accepted the invitation at least for a day and had
then but stayed for the night. And what a night.

He had it half-open window on the dreamy, full of discussions of the
evening, full of bells sounds of her voice and illuminates the
light of their eyes.

They were on the Krügers talked about sailing, and he was again in
his nautical craze was in ruins and returned to his master aristocracy
in particular and to the nobility in general has come.

He had broken a lance for the sexes against the plebeian mass, against
this mishmash of too many, without tradition, without education,
without culture.

He had become violent and unjust, so they spoke to him again.

Why he aristocratic than she herself wanted to be?

The Count had the Geistesadel made his obeisance. Only the Geldadel
came to them all equally badly off. Randers but was always stubbornly
Geburtsadel on the back.

"There is a long tradition, the cultivation of her gender, as are
the finest, highest forces of family, tribe, race driven to blossom."

"Until about culture! " Graf threw the ironic one. Randers, but did not
make mistaken. "There is harmony, both internally and externally,"
he continued. "The peace, security, the elegant, professional
awareness, power awareness and ownership status.

In a word culture.

And the nobility should be its highest goods not disclose, retain
its exclusivity. There must be no crowd, which does not belong, nothing
strange, Destructive , leveling. "plaidieren you for being unable proven
mix," Fides threw something mocking one.

Your sarcasm grieved and appealed to him.

"Yes," he said. "Even up to the last consequence?" "Yes, how so?" "You
would themselves under any circumstances, an aristocrat to marry? "" No
". Randers remembered not just more of all words, but it was very
eloquent been harsh and unrelenting. He was now quite easily around the
heart. He now had a protective wall erected between herself and her, she
knew now, as she was out with him that he is certainly not ridiculous
intentions and hopes arrogant bore. Now he was able to calmly tell her
that she had Fjord eyes and the voice of a Norwegian shepherdess. And he
told her to halfway down her round, very suddenly.

"I have all this time thought. Fjord you have eyes, Komtesse." Fides
sat with her handiwork beside him, a little back to the drop,
from the porch roof fell bespritzt not to be. "Fjord eyes?" she asked
and laughed. "What is the back?" "They were never in Norway?" "No." "Then
you know not these wonderful waters between the Archipelago. Clear and
bright, and blue as the sky would be on their feet, and yet from a
depth of a dark, deep black, the wondrous, frightening secrets seems.
And this depth on the golden, flickering grüngoldige the sun, and
this mirrors the rocks, the woods, the clouds.

And in between the middle of a small boat, which weighs as between two
heavens. And then the silence, the great solemn silence around. I can not
tell you how it is. "" And all you can find in my eyes?

"She smiled and they blushed. "And in your voice," he said. "It is always
strange. What you have to have imagination." Randers laughed. His
good-natured, superior laugh. Then after a pause: "I once had similar
eyes."

Stout peasant blood, from somewhere a few drops of blood artist, gypsy
blood, and in this murky mix, mitgeschwemmt, this is an aristocratic
blood globules.

The whole somewhat fortified. A famous lifeblood. I'd probably feel like
me once thoroughly streak to it. * * * * * Dream foam.

Dreams are foams, both here and there überkluges If you listen to
such words, but the life farbleuchtenden hem Borrows golden dream just
like foam. Dreams are foams ! O youthful foams. foams are dreams! O
youthful dreams. Kräfteüberfliessen foaming, dreaming soul in soul giessen.
dreams are foams, Wen they leave the life should be colorless pale.
Nur, who lives and dreams like foam, wraps itself golden fruit from
the tree. * * * * * Whether or not I'm not better but in my
Krugkammer would have remained?

     Not from any special reasons, but only because I am not obliged to
     like gratitude. And this is already more Nassauerei! But why
     I do not travel from? The landlord model I'm calmed down, he is
     already half-engaged, with a Civic. I would have never forgiven
     her. Ms. Krueger or Kruger .-- Madame, I only want to admit, I was
     really quite jealous, to be without love. What needs to be a mute
     lovers only, who is jealous. * * * * * When they rose in the thrust
     belt and climbed on a chair to get better in the mirror to be able
     to see. This very charming naivete, these natural, childlike, innocent
     vanity! Which lady rises in the presence of a Lord on a chair. You
     must be a really fine lady must all .-- I gave her hand longer
than in my decorous than I helped her down.

It was neither embarrassed nor repulsive, it is simply overlooked. * *
* * * La rose d'amour.

On her dress a dark rose blooms, Entschürzt Schoss to the wondrous scent,
so staggering that their lives they verkose, the white girls breast
soft vault. O had her picture on my picture lots, That I, when the deep
garden sprouts calls from mouth to mouth, all Getose away, let
Verküssen life, light and air.

(Would I love this poem, I would not have made can.

Although it is bad enough and just rough with love could be excused.)
* * * * * Is not a degree of coldness of heart about this, in order
to be able to be poets? nonsense!

Whether people of great imagination is not a certain mean temperature
of the heart, just as much fire as needed to the imagination to make
your feet warm? Is there an imagination of the heart, why not, if it is
a love of the head there. If both together before, like a certain Mr. *
* * * * I must Gerdsen some "documents" to send. I have already enough
zusammengekritzelt.

When he is not yet finally abschnappt. Too nonsensical idea, think of
another novel to write. As the poor guy probably abrackert. But he gets
it done, which means he gets ready for a novel but a novel surrogate.
What he knows at the end of Henning Randers, and what can he say the few
labels that I give him as materials.

It is only him but all misty remain Schattenspuk. By the way, what is
the whole life unlike shadow. Or a search in the fog. Blindekuh! Only
that one's never bandage is removed. Or have a look? Over there? Then
seeing if you will, can look back - God! All these Irrgänge in
thick fog earth.

And then, since the way did you go, and see the gap there, and the
tree on which you dented the head - a few inches wide to the left, and
you're healing has come through life. * * * * * Since I am now really in
the Church, pious and devout fine. They sat beside me, her book was between
us, and our eyes were the same way, from verse to verse, met on the pious
words. kissed each other.

We sat very respectable and chastise each other, and I meckerte in
their beautiful old inside.

She had the lead, I followed like a lamb to the shepherdess. The Organ.
The "love commune" (it was a really lovely soprano voice that, through
this misstönigen Gemecker, Gebrumm and Gepfeife floated like a white
seagull on a dirty miss colored stubble field), the unadorned white walls,
the sun outside and the sun inside, in long, broad stripe on the old
and young minds.

The black board with the large numbers of white chorales.

The small, black with the little pulpit, Pastor weisshaarigen willow
bush .-- I was quite native.

How long am I not in a village Church. * * * * * You do not say
that in our Protestant church Poetry has no place.

In the cold big city churches, with their sober pomp, yes, because
it is frozen, elendiglich frozen.

But our village churches. Even this bald, washed walls breathe poetry,
these old raw bar, a swallow of dirt and spotted with a forgotten
staple tissue in any angle.

What is poetry? You is not from the things that it comes from the
people. And what poetry should be reviewed by the city's church
audience (yes audiences!)

Expect? But here, this simple arable plain citizens, these abgerackerten
day laborers, men and women, the simplicity of their heart and desire
leads here, Sunday to Sunday, and this whole atmosphere of work,
frugality, simplicity, and the sky hoping that is the divided these
unadorned walls and lends them a poignant brilliance.

The poetry comes with the people in the church, feels comfortable here
and will remain, even if the clerk conclude. * * * * * In the countryside,
I understand how one can be pious, it can be. Also on the seas, I understand
it. Also in the wars. But since time is often too short to do so. And on
his deathbed. * * * * * How high is that it is religiously! On earth is
none, in which one needs to bend.

     As one bows before God. In order to soothe his conscience, to
     Salvie. Or feel loneliness? Gray front of loneliness?

* * * * * I love it! Jeg Elske dig! * * * * * It was bold, you are
my fantasy blockhouse aloud. But they now know what I mean. It would be
madness to think she could be taking on so what. The artist nature is
not. Too little Bohémienne. And one of them. But she is the woman
with whom I would endure it. * * * * * Now I know how I'm out with her.
It was careless of her, my roses to make room on the same day. And it was
imprudent of you to blush, because as it broke the box Strauss test, but
I do not want to! 15th of the morning and walked Randers Fides after
Seepavillon. It was a last Septembertag with wind and clouds. But
the sun was there and they even warmed. The wind came from the sea and
drove the clouds into the country. Large shade sailed over the stubble
field. The Rye, which had stood here, was long in the memory. A few
crows hopped on the bare plaice, flew in and settled in stone throwing
distance down again. They could easily go side by side, do not
walk on the narrow sidewalk to hold.

Randers had to bend a few times, her dress from the stubble will be
exempt until they are laughing aufraffte. He had his zugeknöpft Rock
Band and the storm pulled under the chin, as sharp wind blew here. Sometimes
they stayed and turned their backs against the wind in order to better
understand them. Fides fröstelte a little, as she said, when the shadows
on the box set, was an autumnal tone in the air. At the Pavilion, it was
very drafty, and they went inside. They had not long been there.
A warm, stuffy air was something in the room, but the wind because they
had to close the door. Two Waldmeister withered wreaths hung on a nail,
and the scent welke made the atmosphere even more difficult and
oppressive.

The colorful window had only a subdued light and increased the feeling of
seclusion. Fides had a pleasure out of window to window and go to the
lake once a blood red, even yellow ocher and green once more to see.
They wanted to enjoy all over again, because it was the last time
that she saw in this year.

Autumn was there with him and the move to the city. Glad you did not like
it otherwise, she said. How happy would they have never been in the
country, as in this summer. "Why are you not even have a winter?" Randers
said. "I think so beautiful to me." "Do you? I've done it once.

It is indeed lonely." "That's nice." "But in the long run? If would visit.
But there is nothing clever in the area, no dealings with a previous
coherence. "" You should come to Sylt. "" Yes, that would be something.
But Dad's not doing. "" In just a few weeks. "" Come into the town, "she
said. "But you have such a longing for the sea," she quickly added. "I
can imagine how you wegsehnen from here." He replied, not something to
it. All sorts of thoughts and images he went through his head. He went
with her to museums, concerts, churches, led by it to a higher sociability
introduced into society, one thousand tempting prospect opened to him,
if he with her in the city would go. And that they wanted it! That they
wanted it and pronunciation! That made him very happy. "I would so like
to go into the city," he said. "But?" she asked, as he hesitated. "This
idea comes too suddenly, so surprising," he said slowly and unsure,
and avoided it, they should be.

"No, it's not," he said with a sudden decision. "That's all - but no,
it should not be!"

And he began to back and herzugehen, restless and nervous, and desperate
looks after throwing the windows, as if he too humid here. Fides sat
on the red Plush pillows, on the only long opposed free banking, and
drummed very gently with your fingers on the small Borken table. "I had
the thought so beautifully," she said. "But if it can not be -" It sounded
soft, almost like a sigh. She had the thought? Earlier thought? Had it
ausgemalt? It was not just an instantaneous invasion? "Yes, but my dear
gracious Komtesse, I would do it gladly, if only because you want
it -" "But I ask you, my wishes, you should absolutely not the
slightest sacrifice .

They have all these weeks of Sylt gesehnt - "" But I would ask that victims
can not even talk. If you knew how hard - it was so - I will never forget
these weeks, which I here verlebte. "" Yes, it was quite pretty.
But it is now but quite unfriendly here. but I am on the city. "They
said this in a very different tone. A sudden reversal of sentiment.
"Eternal your outward and Herlaufen makes me very nervous," she
said and stood up. "What have you for a turmoil, you certainly can not
expect the time, and where it goes like this, you old sea man."

It should sound facetious, but it was a quiet irritation in the tone. "You
misunderstand me, Komtesse" Randers said. "How so?" The question sounded
very naive and made him a moment confused, bewildered him. He tried with
a smile herauszuhelfen, but it failed. "I need yes the sea, the solitude
- it is just an escape - even in front of me - above all these - these
impossibilities." He ran again and , while pressing it through the
red window on the lake saw the eyes with his hand shading, densely crowded
on the disc. He waited, something that they should reciprocate.

"But I have everything you already said yes," he continued as they
remained silent, and it sounded almost desperate. He looked at her, but
she still did not. As it is, however, after an embarrassing pause turned,
he was on the pallor of her face and almost fierce expression of the
eyes. And suddenly - it was under his anxious, inquiring eyes - a deep red
flooded them, their eyes were insecure, helpless, they beat their
hands before the face, and pressed voice she said quietly: "Why do
you torment me so?

"" Fides " he cried. But they hurried over to him, gave to the Bank, put
his head on the table, and the face in both hands, pushing, she cried
desperately. "Fides" He knelt beside her, shivering, trembling before the
excitation , sought her hand, stood up again and talked about them
hingebeugt on them. "No, no, oh no," he stammered. "What is all
this - Komtesse.

But no - Fides, dear, dear Fides." And again he stood before her on the
knees 16. It was raining, raining more and more, the whole sky seemed
to want to dissolve. The foliage was angewelkte under this constant attack
of the water does not hold, broke up and fell on the loose earth, in the
faeces of the roads and in the hundreds of small and large puddles. It was
as if this day is the last remnants of summer wegschwemmen .

Randers ran straight ahead, one hour, two hours. The water ran in streams
and small rivers of rain from his skirt, gathered on his white hat
durchweichten, trickles through the black screen, sprayed from below
with every step up to him, and leg boots that dresses were quite
kotig. But he always ran out los. Was not that the way to sweet? But it
was so unimportant.

He wanted only his "lucky" away, this whimsical happiness that tormented
him, fear him, like an iron brace to put his heart, like a glowing
nail him drilled into the brain. O, how happy he was! Jauchzte Why does
not he out loud? Did not he a lovely bride? And a delicious future?
Son of Count Bruckner! What would they all jealous. So still a nobleman.
Yes, yes of Randers! No and a thousand times no! It was this sacrifice
is not the answer. Doctor Randers!

What could he offer it for that purpose? From our own? A large, permanent
passion, a constant, everything compensate love? Would he not only her
lover, of her love life? The married be? She had to get this luxury
may allow a simpeln Bürgerliches without position and wealth to take
because he liked her.

She would have loved him and fed! Had he no pride anymore? But as
she say? As it say? He was her so well, he might not have the heart to
bring it hurt to do so. But it had to be, without delay, before the
display of this engagement went into all the world. Then he was tied,
then he could not compromise.

In theory, yes, he knew with all these intricate things to be taken
lightly. People live side by side out and then separates you, to show
good. Or a directed. But in practice, is it something different. Since
talks with the good heart, honor, decency, gratitude, a thousand voices
talking to one and spoil the theoretical concept.

And now even enter into an engagement with the intention to solve them
again. Pfui Teufel, how common! So she said, still here today! The wagon,
so to speak, stood before the door tomorrow, they wanted to leave
together, separated in Hamburg, where he wanted to spend some days
in order to arrange his affairs, to help them then to Berlin to
follow.

So in the last hour, the suitcase in his hand - no it was not! Why did it
all in the last minute! Eight weeks, they have been together now. At best,
it would be, he wrote it from Hamburg. And so long should he act?
Lies? Tired and Abgespannt, soggy and dirty, he came back in the castle
at.
But under the name
Ra we understand something different than is known to the common herd;
for to us, the Universe is God, and in each of its parts we recognize a
manifestation of that highest being without whom nothing is, in the
heights above or in the depths below."

But the devil, because I will not go. I hate Lookouts and any climbing
to as much as possible at once to see.

If there is a lighthouse would be. Or my old poplar at home. But it is
not because of the prospect, so I climb up there. The poetry of
the lighthouse when the storm rages outside and the birds come to the
lantern. What am I here? Forest and field and re-forest and field, cows,
reaper, harvest wagon. Always the same. From one bend to another.
And the whole point is just beyond that you can see so far, so far,
up to Lübeck out. And then the hearts and arrows, and the miller and
Lehmanns. Perhaps even stranger book with silly verses. * * * * * I am
longing to take a bath in the open sea. It does nothing. Naked
surrender the item. Direct natural feeling, feeling one with nature! *
* * * * This silly Küsserei! There were so over me. And so tolpatschig,
just like I am in such matters. A completely innocent emotion of tenderness.
Some kisses in passing every girl that just like him, and they both
laugh and think of nothing else here. It's all so naive, harmless, like
picking flowers. With me is always a main action and the state thereof.
I'm too heavy, not leichtherzig not reckless enough. My most avuncular
emotions and actions are subject to misinterpretation.

Had, moreover I guessed that the little girl a kiss on it responded
- and her place on the school is still warm. * * * * * Incidentally,
I can now think about them without me these red spots before the
eyes shimmer.

     Should the location have yet deeper? A somewhat cumbersome
     nature, me to kiss. Nature chooses otherwise shorter routes to
     their willingness to come. * * * * * Today, this desert night
     dreams. It is therefore stems. Naturam expellas furca ...

I have too long gefastet! Mummsche the way the story - everything has
been present! He wanted it no longer treat others.

It was enough that he and the other was unhappy. Also still to endure, the
lover in the possession of another to know, one fortunate that went
over his fortune. It is something splendid for such power and
passion! We tame, moral weaklings rather resign, before we have
even one drop of blood. O, only once such a passion capable of: But
that is only once a dream presents.

My gray lady from the bridge, I hope forever stalled.

This sensation when I her neck between my fingers had. A kiss is just a
glass of water on the other hand, and every other kind of lust.

     Armer Mumm! You have to give the ghosts only come through
     the neck, all kinds of ghosts. They are finally all just dolls,
     stuffed with sawdust, and if they are to the body up, they squeak.
     * * * * * On the way for Gerdsen note: I saw in a transition over
a narrow moat a lady on the bridge are.

Whole dressed in gray.

She stared into the water without me to notice. It was a cloudy, foggy
November afternoon. The image is shaped me strange way so that I am
sleeping and waking pursued. Strangest Hallucination. Often, in the excited
state, or in dream moods, to Dämmerzeit sometimes I saw it before me,
to draw, I was in love with the ghost, with a kind of tombs love, love
horror. You had asked me a long not visited. Last night she was
back. Whether they are dead? Randers was 11th in the afternoon with the
teacher to the lookout tower. Petersen left him no peace with the "damned"
tower. The forest rangers of his apartment at the foot of the old circular
granite structure had kept the keys. The man stood in front of the door
and knocked a dainty black mare flattering slender neck.

High on a chestnut stallion put his nose to the neck of the companion
and sniffed, as he would like to participate cuddled. "The count is up,"
said Petersen.

"Can we go for?" Randers asked. "egg certainly!" Randers was burning with
curiosity, the counts to get to know. The women's saddle on the
mare also announced the presence of at Komtesse. Randers involuntarily
took a stramme attitude, buttons on his coat and moved nervously
in his pince-nez.

"Let me imagine," he asked. "Worthy man love, do not - m - m - mütig, "said
Petersen. top they met a man of about fifty years ago, in a light
bright Reitanzug.

He looked through a small field glasses and the landscape turned to
only casually, hardly the glass from his eyes off the stairs, as Randers
and his companions entered the platform. "Aristocrat from top to toe,"
thought Randers and mustered the slim, elegant figure of the Count and
satisfied with curious glances. What I would love to but the lady be?
The mare was but a lady saddle! The last dome crowning the tower, while
the roof of the stairs overlooking the platform a bit and liked the
Komtesse obscure. Or was she did not climbed up with? The teacher came
with a deep kipper up to the Count. "Good day, Mr. Graf Wonderful view
today." He came without a kick out on the title. "Ah, there you are, my
dear .

'The Count gave him the hand of Randers and made a slight bow. "The view
is not beautiful now," he said. "The humidity, the vapor in the air."
"Yes, yes, to f - moist, Mr. Graf, thick air, 'Petersen hastened to
agree." My name is Randers, "and its companion schnarrte bowed
out against the Counts. "Dr.

Randers," Petersen repeated hastily, as if he had an important omission
is easily done. "Very pleasant. To visit here in our area? I had heard
that your guest, rather Petersen, is not it?" "Very nice, very nice,"
he added with a certain careless vivacity continued. "How do you like
it here? beautiful fertile land." He showed with an arm movement
on the issue of Panorama.

He waited for no reply, but took the glass again before his eyes and looked
at the horizon. This short, although friendly, but kind of liked
Randers-repellent, so it was quite, it was aristocratic, always ten
steps from the body, always reserved. But where was because the lady?
He constantly looked around, went several steps further, but in vain.
Probably they always went before him, in the same direction. It is
best you stay stand, he thought. Is it up here, it will already come
to light. But Petersen plucking him by the arm. "You see there the Baltic
Sea over there?" "Yes," said Randers, but saw nothing. "And that is Plön,
do you see?

No, here on my grad floor. "" Yes, yes, I see, "log Randers. Plön
What was it! He wanted to see Komtesse. The mare had but a lady saddle.
"Papa!" cried again with a full, deep voice girl. A slender figure
in tight black Reitkleid came to the dome essay around stutzte when she
saw Randers, and made U-. "The Komtesse," Petersen taught. Randers immediately
went the other way around. He wanted to see them. What had this girl
for a voice! The Komtesse stood beside her father and seemed to
want to say something, but by Randers disturbed, they looked at
him straight in the face. A volatile, musternder glance. Randers
pulled the hat and looked very profound questioning of the counts.

Will you introduce me? But the Count was not before him, joined the
Komtesse a step back: please, if it's popular, sir. The passage is free.
He really had to pass, again had to go around the tower and from the
Petersen Lübecker towers can show. Not a word he was haggard, with
which he had a conversation can build. As he presented the count was, he
would dare be casual. But what should he say to those eyes? Eyes, to
this voice fit, the same eyes with full, deep sound. Eyes like a Norwegian
mountain song. "She has a Norwegian Norwegian voice and eyes,"
he said to Petersen. The teacher looked at him and smiled uncomprehendingly:
"Norwegian eyes?" "Yes, fjord eyes," said Randers. At this moment, the
Komtesse eyes with the Norwegian and the Norwegian vote on them over. The
Count nodded and followed his hat lüftend, friendly farewell.
Randers And heard the train of black Reitkleides the stone steps
hinabrauschen, heard from the bottom up again briefly their full,
riefetiefeme, a smile, and listened Hufschlag strained after the horses.
But the soft forest floor swallowed the sound. Only once sounded a
short, bright Hufgeklapper up. It had to be some where there are
stones.

Randers stood far above the parapet leaned, and looked down. He was nothing
but the soft, fluctuating Laubdach see Book of the high. He could not even
follow the path which they now rode. He just knew, somewhere down there
below this roaring, lispelnden, billowing green tent lit two beautiful,
deep clear eyes. Fjord eyes! But four quick feet lead them into the
distance. There, back, far back, behind the hills was Rixdorf. But no,
these eyes were so, so stayed with him.

Her eyes had it. He saw it always tight in front of him. Large steel-blue
eyes. From a deep almost black, but with a grüngoldigen lights on.

Fjord eyes! Steep rise in the dark rocks, but at their feet, the
water in beautiful clarity and depth. The sky's blue mixes with the
black shadows of the rocks. A gull wing jerks about hell out. And such a
wonderful stillness in this hidden bay! Fabulously horror überfällt him.
The small boat glides slowly through the clear flood, from the sky. It
was like a floating between sea and sky, or as between two heavens.
Above, below the same depth, same height, unfathomable, but in a clear,
quiet, very peaceful, as if there were no storms. And now
suddenly from above, gently herunterschwebend a song.

The song of a shepherdess, a dairymaid. Depth solemn sounds, deep and
solemn as the calm sea. "It w - w - w is - probably time," said Petersen.
Randers on startled. "Yes, yes," he said hastily. Below Randers had quite
a bit drink. He was thirsty. The forest rangers had Schenkenberger
law. There were admittedly only liquor and beer. Randers both ordered
for three people.

They met at. Randers drank hastily. "Lang sin woll not being here," said
Petersen, the forest rangers. "Ne, dat is't first time in düssen
summer. Süss kömen se more times." "Is it far to Rixdorf?" Randers
asked. "One and hours," said Petersen. "At the horse?" "Ne, on foot,
when the Lord is upright," said the Forest Guardians. Randers wanted
another drink, and the others had to order him to do so. After third
glass, he said: "Damn pretty wenches! still young, what?" "Well, where
might olt se sin?" Forest rangers asked the teacher. "So negentein,
twintig." "Ne, where Wulle du hen? Dre and twintig se is certainly
all" "Oh, still 'n glass, Mr.

Wirt," invited Randers.

Petersen laughed at him, and in Randers Petersen laughed. He was very
red, very heated. "That is the truth," he said, the fresh, sparkling glass
scrutinizing hold against the light. "Smart, confident, aristocratic."
He took a haughty mien and näselte Guard as a lieutenant. "Uh, I laugh at
the world!" The forest rangers saw him amused to: Wat een för bust you?
"No, seriously, my Do not you, Mr. Teacher, "strove Randers." There
is still racial Edelzucht of her sex. "" Yes, it was f - f - f -
for themselves, "stuttered Petersen.

     Randers looked deep into the glass, and the forest rangers saw him
     as one, which can not be trusted. "say you, gentlemen," cried
     Randers aufschnellend again, "I not right?"

"Oh, wat," growled the angry forest rangers. "So'n Lüe moeten sin, un
Anner Lüe moeten ok sin. Before God we are all gliek." "Yes, dear, that's
quite right," cried Randers. "That is however a matter for themselves."
"Yes Mau, du v - v - versteihst the Lord f - f - f - wrong," presented
to the teacher resources. "Dat mag sin, ik but you meen. Ik buen man
's simple eenfachen Kirl, dat Heet, min häw ik ook business loses because
mi can not nüms watt in sedges. But dat ik meen you so' n Lüe -
well, you versteihst mi , Petersen.

"Randers saw sinister before down, took off his pince-nez and cleaned
him around." Zweimalhundertausend Mark annually to eat, "he after a
break out. "As much a must have in order to be able to live decently."
Now the forest rangers laughed wholeheartedly neck. "Tweemalhunnertdusend
Mark! Das is nich veel, dat is one degree, in order to dorbi Botter en
hebben."

Randers laughed with, and Petersen made unsuccessful attempts to speak
to come. "Doctor!" he cried, "Herr Doktor! W - w - you know - Mr. Doctor
- w - w - w - '. But he was not so. But when the laughter subsided,
somewhat, he began again: "Doctor, do you know what I m - m - I
then bought?

The W - w - world bought I m - me The W - world, Herr Doktor! "* * * * *
Second Book 1 Randers was one day in Rosenhagen appeared.

Rosenhagen belonged to Rixdorf, both actually formed a village, there
were only five minutes away from each other. Rosenhagen consisted only
of the pitcher and some Tagelöhnerkaten. In Rixdorf there was no
inn.

Thus, in Randers Krug Quartier taken.

The landlord was not Logierbesuch furnished and had gesträubt. But Randers
had persuaded him, with words and money.

Hagener Rose wondered and wondered Rixdorf. What he wanted to here from
them? And enjoy sea bathing, Randers said. That yes, he could have here,
first hand, pure unadulterated sea.

Baden, he admittedly so, free beach. Badekarren there would not be
here.

Only a noble. So far, no humans on the idea came straight into the sea
Rosenhagen want to enjoy. These were but the many bathrooms there, along
the entire coast.

Rosenhagen resulted from a narrow dirt road up to the harsh high shore,
a line snakes out there and then gradually introduced to the beach
down flat. Randers used this way is not often, he usually made the detour
via Rixdorf, went through the park, which he had requested permission, the
foot climb followed by the large, Schlossgut rye field belonging to the
small viewing pavilion, which the Count on here steeply sloping
shore height had built, and then climbed a comfortable stairs down to
the beach. Every morning, with sunrise, Randers took a bath. He had a
beautiful stone vacancy selected. He certainly had something far wade to
him the water for swimming ranged. But it was wonderful! So all alone in
a wide radius, a maximum in the distance a white sail the seas
with him informed.

     Only the waves, he lacked the rolling North Sea waves,
     this fall refreshing baths. And this absolute pure natural feeling,
     so the playing waves leave to be able to wave with the waves, or
the stählende fight with them.

Here it was mostly quiet and smooth, only with sustained Ostwind there
was once something swell. But the east wind would not adjust. But it was
refreshing, this early Morgenbad if the lake in the sun flickered and
sparkled. During the day he walks a lot, usually in the direction of the
park Rixdorf The road was so much nicer than the Rose Hagener side
also, and he had but the Komtesse even see! "We Miss" said the people and
"our Lord". It touched him so patriarchal. Randers evening sat with
Tagelöhnern the pitcher. He had the same in the first few days in all
Katen seen, knew all the women, all children and had to be fun,
to tease the dogs.

     All the people had agreed with him that it is not completely accurate
     way. "He is so bi mind, sin right mind he hätt yes.

But wat he want here?" they said. But they were fine with him. He was not
arrogant, he understood it, he drank with them and had a ten times
penny piece for the children left. Randers was not nearly as much
drinking as in Rosenhagen. The people were like when you are issued with
them. What should he do? He probably had to drink. And they soon
realized that he could tolerate. One evening, it was yet too much. He had
first seen Fides in the park, they have broad maize across borders
reverently greeted and had a surprised greeting back. Afterwards, the
kids and the dogs a good day, they let it in peace and that he
presented ample.

And in the evening he did in the Kätnern pitcher decision more than usual,
and gave two rounds of brandy, and afterwards went instead to the
bed, into the fields beyond.

And as he stood in the middle of the rye, singing and gesticulating
with both arms so that he far from excluding those ghostly in the
darkness, like a bird who makes unsuccessful flight tests, or like
a windmill, wind bursts in all a few moments and then turns back
to stand still.

A few steps, he totters forward, then he stood still again, threw
himself in the chest and sang with a loud voice and a deep fervor heroic
phrase from an old Danish song. Always the same phrase, tirelessly
and with a deep growling cadence on the final note, equal to the hoarse,
Furor an irritated bull roar. In the morning he had a headache. But it
was not, he saw a. He was not allowed to drink as much, especially
not brandy. He wanted to be sick again? Admittedly, yes, he ran the whole
day out there's around, "processed" it again.

But he had yet to be careful. Randers was eight days in Rosenhagen had
during the time Fides twice seen the counts but not yet to face. He thought
it now time for his duty, his visit to the castle to make. What must they
think that you are here a long time staying on their land, for
permission nachsuchst the park to be, and it not even worth keeping your
waiting to make. And you are the Count ever presented. There you will
keep for a flail.

     He pushed the visit but still something to take from one day to
     another. But one morning he put on his gloves, gray gloves, twine,
     one had a burst Daumennaht, and he took him in hand. His important
     project coined in his whole attitude. The women in the doors Kate
     saw him longer than usual, listened to the children to play, and
the dogs ran a few steps behind him and blafften.

He had now no time for them. In the afternoon we saw him with the count
through the village, so eager conversation with a frequent reverently
Halbwendung after his companions.

     And he spoke very loudly and a little through the nose. The
     people in the fields, they saw and Melkmädchen on the paddock.
     Evening in the pitcher wanted the entertainment does not really
     flow. They did not speak as loud as usual, and Randers had the
     feeling as if they are embarrassed. 2 Randers to Gerdsen. Thanks
     for your funny postcard. But please, until further notice no more
     on the map. As you can see, I am no longer in school to Grashof.
     As I hierherkam? By chance, and insolence! Them soon. Lavish
     woman! Hocharistokratisch, Danes blood! The whole family _hocharistokratisch_,
     immensely rich. Rixdorf Bruckner, collaterally in Denmark branched.
     There is nothing with the Direktricen. About all the other
     main Wives - imitation! Racial distinction, here it is. Edelzucht
     of her gender. Eyes like a fairy tale. North Sea Eye! This makes
     the Danish. God, what a drunken letter! Soon more of your 3rd Gerd
     R. Gerdsen in Randers. Liebster Doctor! Has your demon you
     finally into the arms of an aristocrat led? The man does not
     escape his fate, and you have to cut the nobility.

Maybe even to the Russian State Council. All of your talents indicate
the Baron out the Lebemann - in the finest sense. They carry it in
diary Rixdorf? I need documents. The novel of Dr. phil. Henning Randers
is written in a mirror for him, a curiosity cabinet of the reader
and a Kurzweil for his author.

But documents, documents! My imagination, my psychology alone is not
enough to you that you need me to help you to grasp. You read me verses
before. Do you still have it? Have you written anything else? Confessions?
BTW, what the Russian Council of State is concerned, you still
remember our conversation prior to your departure?

They wanted an article about Alexander the Third and write in the
distance saw a medal.

It was a little bit of seriousness in the joke. They had the unfortunate
Sympathieen for autocrats, and not just for the husband of the Danish
Dagmar. What line of standing on your desk, the photograph of the imperial
family, Alexander at his work table, in front of the Empress and her
sister, how was this line of image next to the portrait of - Dolgorucki!
You _müssen_ Danes a drop of blood in your veins, and also once housed
something with the tongue of one of your ancestors to delektiert
have tallow candles.

Danish Women's rooms, and Russian music, you wax. And what the
Russian is concerned, your instincts are on the heel. This means that
you would before use shrink, but in principle you have no objection.

So a warm Patriarchismus with the heel of the law, as where it would be
necessary, and alternately worship and Sunday - Lectures nihilistic.
You laugh? Me too!

But such a picture to you if you try, one of you to do. There are so many
threads that I all alone in the hand did. But there is no right to tissues.
So documents, documents! Otherwise you will be at the end of my
novel to a Kyrgyz or Tatars.

With love, for which the scholar has the butterfly, which he for
his collection aufspiesst, I am your faithful Gerd Gerdsen 4.

Fides sat in front of a hoop in the open Verandatür. Outside the band
gardener a branch magnificent Maréchal Niel, who under the weight of flowers
deep herabbeugte on the floor.

A few pigeons ran on the front of the white gravelled three stone staircase
in the garden hinabführte, is hunted, pawed and tossed into the chest
and gurrten.
The assessor davongegangen. On their own feet,
Ibsenweib. * * * * * Miss Helga seen. We are now daily. Is that a girl!
She has property and wants to temporarily "without commitment" to live,
freedom, I mean. Travel, solitude, travel. Next year she wants to Scotland.
If she wants, I go with 16. Randers Sweden sat on the wreck, and Helga
stood to his feet in the sand. Everywhere, the shards of the stranded
slates around. Helga had with a piece of Muschelkalk Randers profile
on a larger piece of slate scratched more than drawn.

"Hit?" It's kept him out, and he stooped down to her. He laughed. "But
no! "She laughed and threw the slate shards with strong throw after the
waves. He was admittedly only half-way. "Why draw garnicht more?"
he asked. "You gave me your sketchbook not yet shown."

"I'm tired of this Dilettanterei. What should I draw? The sea? You
ashamed of its imperfections here more than anywhere else."

"It is so," said Randers, and thought of the verses which he had made
yesterday and he would like to read out. Now passed him the courage to
do it. "Do you want to never again return to the theater?" he asked. "No,
it's not my job." "Should you not be deceived? your Hedda Gabler yesterday
-" The I have played all the way in. I played, and so I read it
to you yesterday convincing.

The is me , Ibsen ever.

But you see, it drives me, keeps me not. I myself want to give
the evidence that I could something, anything, it was spite against my
family. However, I do not have a theater of blood. And the art
must you quite belong, with all the fibers, when her serve and did not
want to lose it. "He was silent a moment." But you are still a natural
artist, "he said then." Because I have a soul? "" You have but and
talent. "" Yes, a few talents.

I sing, actor. And because I am a living soul, is also something out.
Others would be happy with it and be a modest little house with all kinds
Ruhmesflitter build it. But I do not want house, I want a house with a
tower proud of it.

And that's not enough. "" You are too modest. "" I know me and judge me
.-- And then I's not necessary, "she added quietly.

"But natures as you need to have a profession, a task!" "That you say?"
It sounded like mockery. He blushed. "Oh I do.

I'm misguided, botched." "And who is to blame?"

"I itself naturally. "She said nothing and painted by hand circles in the
sand." Something of course, the conditions, "he added." The man must
be master. "" That does not always work. "" You must know what you
wants and what they can.

"And what if you want what you can not do?" "That is a great misfortune."
"One can not help it." "Well -" She broke short off. "You mean it? "he
asked." Yes, the time must surely come to realization. Viewing what you
are, who you are.

And it's called, its peg choices, so here you are, here is your land.
"" But if this realization comes too late? "" What call you too late?
"" Well, so in my years. "" Of course, in old age.

"She laughed mockingly, and he agreed cordially." So are you to the knowledge
but have come?

"she said somewhat maliciously." That I can not do what I want? Yes.
"" What do you want?

"He bethought itself for a moment and then said in jest:" Marriage. "She
laughed out loud." And why can it not? "" Because I think no woman. "
But that is because of
the leisure and to give the girl a fun to make. You enough for the last
part of the novel, for my sake!

Let your "heroes" somewhere construction, is a village lass shattered
bones, or - I really have become so indifferent. You would do me no
suffering for your sake thankless work, I would ask you, the entire
manuscript in the oven too stuck. But as far as it has been concluded,
I have no right in it.

They have a free hand. And good luck! Möcht's fame and money you entered.
Before you get a quarter do not ask again. Nevertheless, your ever
faithful Randers. 8 (Tagebuchblätter.)

The fact that Beethoven does not know the sea has learned. His breath is
like the ocean. This generous swell of his melody. That would have
made us a gift must Ocean Symphony. The fact that all of our biggest of
the sea was so strange! Goethe, Schiller, Beethoven. Byron, who knew the
sea! Böcklin And knows it! * * * * * As the organic entity Böcklin
are fantasy, I see at Thoma, this loving, quiet, German master.

To succeed his Bockfüsser not always, people with goat legs. But a
Böcklinscher Faun, which is real. * * * * * I see the nature Böcklin, that
is, in many good moments.

That makes Böcklin is as true as nature itself, he has recorded, in its
depths mother overhears. Nature is Böcklin. Never reminds me of Klinger,
who is so big, so I worship him. Böcklin But I love. And it is not only
the sea, the proximity of the sea.

Recently on the Dorfstrasse, Lindenwipfeln the dark against the
evening sky - the color, mood, music: everything Böcklin. Or the little
black stones, from the Wadden watch out when the tide softly heranspült
a gull rested on the biggest rock: so what distinguishes Klinger also
quite delicious. But the nature reminds me never to him. That makes it far
too much Klinger. Böcklin: monologue! Klinger: Dialogue! When one speaks
only nature, the magic wand of the great artist obedient. At the other
is out of a conversation, a dialogue. The artist has witty responses,
objections, even a joke. He is not - clean.

Well Understood! * * * * * What nonsense: Modern Art!

True art is above all times, is _immer_ and _nie_ modern. * * * * * North
Sea. A fresh North Northwestern Call with wild, He grasps the sea
and drag it to the manes.

Since it is harnessed, there's stomps of a thousand hooves, large Blecker
one thousand steeds with the teeth, and loud claps of its stages,
the cloud God down his whip strands; Top seh than Sporn and spikes
created a hurry, The Grieskirchen Bart greinend I hintüberlehnen.
* * * * * Non est.

In this borderless new in solitude Flowers me a feeling, And from the
compulsion of inner pain free, I Lausch of the waves splashing Gespühl;
And flies in front of me a white girl dress, it urges the Lockenhaus
wirrendes throng, And like the star light in the sprayed foam, I have
a visual eye-pair, the I erglüht. * * * * * Whether Gerdsen still haunts
the novel? I am with this whole idea of the novel has become silly. He
should not try, or it deichseln as he wants. If he is his hero (sic!) With
the Komtesse Bruckner kopuliert, will he thank the readers and the
publisher too. * * * * * Moik. But no! Moik what has such stupid, so
what - businesslike.

A piece of man. Eats, drinks, sleeps and is there. Say I come! she
go! so it goes.

It could actually meet the man leave. But here's the problem. The "nothing
as a man", yes! But if you are building log houses, flowers in an empty
room and makes verses - one is actually still there man? * * * * * A cork,
the deep urge to be noticeable to ersäufen! I can even sometimes ironic
take. These damned inclination about oneself pondering. Not inclination,
but compulsion to doom! * * * * * Lighthouse keeper's wife with her
homesickness. It embittered his loneliness, his desire is life. He was
formerly with the musicians Sailors Chapel. An eccentric, crazy! Of
course!

But I understand him. The woman, also I understand.

It will be her one day to give in and quit his post, once again among the
people go. It is always the woman, the man does not desire it, one way
or the other. It is doing me the way, sorry. * * * * * The music,
especially the Nordic, is a so far, to be the lighthouse keeper. Music,
this Allerwelts language that everyone understands they should combine
balance. But they isolated me. An isolated Beethovensches Adagio me,
leads me back to myself. I want each music that has taken me completely,
in the solitude. * * * * * The play of the intelligent, witty good
writer, the poet want to be happy.

But they failed. So a pure simple mind, the intellectual property is
not the tenth part in the throwing Wagschal has held tones, which
the whole wealth of other minds forget, when something of this world.

Those sounds come from but a world whose animosity for all popes and
kings of this world their crowns and thrones would give. * * * *
* Poets and prophets to give them the sky is open. * * * * * Creative
pleasure and creative torments.

Yes, but so to the fullest, can create this divine joy, these happy divinity
weighs not at all suffering?

But on the other hand, the agonies of half that only a scattered
drops of holy oil arrived.

Want, want and can not. Annealing, but we do not want to be flames. * * *
* * That, I think the biggest joy father: a son, in which the things
in a glowing, flame ward.

In the bright light that day and his nights dreams recognize his
pregnant, painful nights. * * * * * When I dream of Fides, it is
always the same situation.

We go together through a mature cornfield. The sky glows in a gentle
sunset.

We are not talking, only dumb side, until it gradually like a shadow before
me entschwebt, after the side wegrückt.

As the distance grows, its shape is indistinct, grows a strange fear in me,
I want to say to her, but the vote failed.

Only three or four times I had this dream.

Only once they are mixed with Moik picture, and I drank her kisses from
Moik lips. 9 In Rantum Krug guests were entered. Moik had their hands
full to do as well after a long Randers dune migration occurred somewhat
tired.

In the guest room a few men sat by the coffee Rantum Punsch; in the
back room, good room with the soft upholstery, a lady sat before
a plate of fried eggs.

Ersens edge first thought was: fried eggs? Look, do you also pointed
appetite. But it took him quite naturally, the lady claimed. A stranger?
At this time? He stood undecided for a few seconds in the door between
two rooms. He looked Punsch coffee drinkers. That was so Jens Petersen
Dirks. "Day, Mr. Dirks," he said so loudly that the lady, after a
glimpse of him her full attention once again turned the eggs had
surprised him installations.

Moik came from the kitchen with a plate full of butter Rantum. "Tell me,
can you get fried?"

he asked, louder than was necessary. He was rubbing hands on them and
stepped on as if he had cold feet. He sat at a table, but stood right
back up. "Do you want me because it's bring Moik?" He went into the other
room. "Merciful Miss permitted?" He schnarrte as a lieutenant, made two
short quick bow and left to settle a side table.

The lady said nothing, threw only a brief, investigative look at him over
there. "Warm out today , gracious lady.

"It sounded almost hastily. She had just completed a piece of bread in the
mouth and could not immediately respond when Moik hereintrat and something
in his ear said. Randers immediately jumped on." Oh, I apologize.
The I did not, "he schnarrte." Bitte sehr, I have no right to sell here,
"said the stranger. Randers, but withdrew with a bow to the other room."
Who is that? " he asked Moik. Moik sat down for a moment to him. You
shrugged. "From Wenningstedt. She said that if we do not have a room where
they could eat alone." "For a long time here?" "Perhaps half an hour. ""
Will they still continue? "Moik knew not. Randers ate his eggs and
listened to every sound in the adjoining room.

Now she passed the fork out. Now klirrte something in her glass. They
gave a .-- I do not have the right to distribute.

A woman had the voice room. He was a fool, that he had not stayed.
If he is the tone of their words zurückrief, it seemed to him
something of a covert invitation to stay is to lie.

He waved Moik out. "Where does it Wenningstedt?" Moik knew of nothing.
"Can you not even ask?" Moik not answered.

Randers began a loud conversation with the Rantum. They cried to them
more than sitting separately.

After five minutes of each other room was out the door admitted
making.

The Rantum ignored it, but Randers ran red. It was him the whole time
even already noticed how loud he behaved, but a certain defiance,
or was it nervousness, had let him persevere.

Now he is angry. What will they think of you? But then he smiled. What
is it you? Who is she? She had a gray dress or a brown? Did she really
a hat on?

You know nothing of her, not even whether she has pretty eyes.

Only the fact that lady is a stranger, something in a sense, Mysterious,
is enough, so you aufzuregen.

"Moik, should I have a cigar," he shouted from his seat in the kitchen
inside, whose door is always Moik left open. "Yes, just take it," it
sounded back. He went to the buffet, took a cigar from the crates, from
the light, he needed three string matches, until they finally burned.
Rantum The rose noisily and received. Thank God! Now he was alone.
Whether they would go soon?

That he wanted to wait in any case, and if he should wait one hours.
Suddenly he had an idea.

He went with a burning cigar into the adjoining room. "Merciful
Miss permit?" She was a little confused in the amount of mileage. Perhaps
she had rested in the sofa? Read? Slumbered? She had big dark eyes and
was blond.

Randers saw the fugitive, when he was at the large wall map of Sylt old
who was hanged here, approached. He pretended to search something on the
card, while behind him with a wrinkled sheet of newspaper was impatient,
nervous, as it seemed.

He had time. But he could not but a quarter of an hour before the card
will remain. "The entertainment was probably too noisy to you, gracious
lady," he said, turn round. "People here are not accustomed. They talk
very loud here." "Yes, I've noticed."

Merciful lady are long on the island? "" Since a few days. "Merciful Miss
permit?" He pulled a chair up. She said yes and not no, no, and he
sat down. "You live in Westerland?" Westerland? no. "She was damned
monosyllabic, and their views were repeated under the door. Now they
even beat with a fork, according to Glass. "Command?" He jumped up. But
Moik already occurred.

"What am I guilty?" asked the stranger.

Randers was tactful enough to return to the back wall map. It was blood
red and angry. He was duly abgeblitzt. What now? He had to stay until
they went. He could not now go out of the room.

He sat down at the next table and saw in the newspaper. The stranger had
been collected and made from the Moik raincoat turn.

"Famos figure," thought Randers, on seeing the newspaper out.

"Gosh! And this proud grace, this security. "Moik to him straight up
to the shoulder ranged ranged until the stranger is at the nasal tip.
Randers stood up.

With this royal habit, he had to be measured. It was hard behind her to the
window.

It was almost as big as he. A very light floral scent of it was from. Was
it or violets Maiblume? Her hair, slightly ruffled at the neck, was quite
lovely, just as the sun fell on it. Outside in the wood pile in the yard
playing a couple of young kittens. Always lay the white after a brief
battle on the back.

The rolls are spotted with one blow of his young Pfötchens in the sand.
Randers else could the long watch.

Even now, the kitten amused him, but his thoughts only with the beautiful
stranger was their raincoat swept behind his back. As the stranger
declined, with a mute, barely perceptible inclination of the head,
he followed not just in front of the door.

He looked at her a moment from the window of the guest room to see
how they slow the meadow to the Wadden herunterging and right out
of the house disappeared.

Then he appeared in front of the door, went the same route, stopped, looked
after him, turned slowly back around and hit the road to the dunes
a 10.

Randers went on outer beach. Whether they want to bake? Then you meet them.
Or not. Actually, he would go after her.

She had not only the right, at the Watts page. Why was he not investigated?
He was not änglichst but otherwise in such matters. Why now? He climbed
twice on the dunes up and held Rundschau. But no trace of a lady. A few
dunes sheep he drove on, that was all.

You're a fool! Maybe it long again on the way back. But he ran it
until Hörnum Odde, quite to the extreme tip. He was actually already in
the running. The smooth sandy beach at low tide was the pedestrian no
difficulty. Randers But it was warm. He took his hat and saw it that it
was quite dirty, it was so beautiful was white, shining. "That is not,"
he said aloud.

He put the cap back on, they pushed all the way into the neck and
stapfte further.

The sand was deep, and Randers had "Storch", while schlenkerte his
long arms as if he were very enterprising.

He thought, but only if he is not this afternoon in Westerland buy a new
cap should be. Yes, that he wanted to! The decision seemed to calm him.
He schlenkerte not so much with the poor.

And then he began to sing. "Winter storms which diverged Bliss moon."
When he returned after Rantum, he heard, the lady was after half
an hour came back, entered into the dunes and the beach would
probably be dropped after Wenningstedt.

Randers barely smiled noticeably. Stupid, he thought. But he was not so
very annoying. Only a little tired, he decided to become and consequently,
the cap until tomorrow to buy. He looked at the old once again showed they
Moik and said: "What do you say to the hat?"

Moik knew not what he wanted. "Is it not quite dirty? " he asked. "This is
far from good," said Moik. Randers put the hat on, pulled the storm
band under the chin and stepped in front of the small wall mirror. He
turned his head like an idle wenches. "Oh no," he said, "that does not
work!" He threw his cap on the table and sat in front of the soup, which
had Moik him. He ate normally in pitcher at lunch. Moik sat down with
him. They smelled of coffee punch that it had donated a guest. Randers
was sensitive today, I would love this coffee Punsch not breathing.

Their broad, good face with the full, sensuous lips came to him before the
ordinary than usual: "Do not you 'n little sleep?"

he asked. He duzte it often. "sleeping?" she asked puzzled. "you have the
punch drunk." She laughed out loud. "Oh, it does nothing to me." "You
drink most often times as a secret?" "You probably also believe."
"Na, na!" "But what I say!" She was really shocked. He laughed good-natured.
"Do good. scherzinger I just." After dinner he could not contain her
round face, which really glowed a little, between both hands .

They fought, but it helped her nothing, as its head sat between the
vise.

"What 's oven," he said, and bent her head reluctant to back. "Now you will
get a kiss, Moik," he said . But there were two. 11 desire not die!
Randers bought the gardeners in Westerland a few red asters and put it
back up top, and in guest rooms. He smiled while, a little mockingly:
"Whether they probably will come?" But it was the smile but also a
satisfied smile. It was also on his program. The farmer was ready, the
bird, he had yet to catch. But a wild bird. A hidden Dünennest, and about
the storm out. And now and then a trip to two. On his solitary walks
through the dunes wilderness they went next to him, the woman of his
desire.

In the sand of the beach umschäumten they stood at his side, and
her thoughts were his thoughts.

And when he tired in the evening in the darkness of his log hineintappte,
and then the lamp aufflammte, he was kicking back in the lonely silence
of these four walls, with his insistence on always silent questioning
a rejected: Where is she?

Was it really only desire for freedom, love of solitude, which placed
him in the wilderness had driven?

Was it not perhaps a special kind of madness erotomania who invented
this whole building of dunes and romantic log cabin to the "wife"
had to build up, the woman, as he dreamed, and as it was not there
in this world?

12th The sky was cloudless, only on the horizon was a light, milky
haze.

The sea was blue and stole only weak moves. It was completely calm.

Quiet, in broad, loose foam waves lifted the flood. Only close to the
beach, the waves continued their white caps, without which he never made
a visit. It was around noon, Randers stood on the terrace of the red cliffs,
and was angry despite the brave new white hat. Something also just a
result of this cap. He never log on the duration of something before,
confessed that with time all of his weaknesses. He knew quite well
even now that he no stranger spiegeleieressende those still using the
old dirty hat herumliefe. And now he had again this stranger for a long
way made in vain. No, he could not say. Ganz is not in vain. He had
Wenningstedt find out where they lived, how they told her where she
was and where they had gone this morning. And above all - they had an
indefinite period apartment and taken to imply that it may stay until May
or June could even extend.

She wanted to live according to their favor, and be free. Hence,
it was before the season came. At four weeks she had rented only
once.

So much ground had Randers, to be satisfied, but a fact that he was
after her Kämper, to the lighthouse, nachgelaufen was misguided and
she again had voted him instantly annoying.

The island was big but damn if it was someone "accidentally" be taken.
It could very well pass a quarter during which they are always among the
dunes in a row herliefen to each other around, only by a sand hill
separately without having to meet.

Both disturbed, perhaps the same flock of sheep from their digestive
calm. The hare, which he aufscheuchte, chased her, perhaps behind the
next dune a terrifying one. Yes, that was all. The thought made him very
nervous. He would never meet, if not today in Wenningstedt remain in
their hotel the night and tomorrow during their morning coffee presented.
Damsel from Lorenzen Tönning. Randers was Tönning known.

There was the rich wine merchant Lorenzen. But the daughters had just
married. Perhaps a niece of his. The wine merchant had a brother in
Hamburg, a shipowner. Randers was tilted, the lady of Miss Lorenzen from
Hamburg to keep. In any case, rich shipowner's daughter, a senator's
daughter. Patrician blood. Age Hanseatenadel. Randers stood in the sun
and angry. He was lying on his back, his cap pulled over the face, so
it just below the screen on the flaming reddish sand could blink. All
moments, he took a handful of sand and threw them over the edge of the
terrace in the air. Then he rushed to the side, let the fine sparkling
sand through the hollow rights on the back of the left hand trickle,
with endless stamina and sinister miens .

Suddenly he took all hands full of sand and threw them on the terrace
in the depth, more and more, ever faster, the big boy, he was 13. Randers
had eaten lunch at the hotel and sip his coffee on the veranda,
when he in the dining room behind their voices heard.

They complained to the landlord half angry, half amused, that they
need changing.

Eventually, someone would have the red cliff down formally overwhelmed
with sand.

Randers was saddened, horrified. He suppressed a curse.

He listened, but he understood nothing. Well. She went at least.

He wanted to call the landlord and pay. But of course, would give him
the big news to tell. Ms. Lorenzen bombarded with sand! What should he
say to make a face? He would tell them erführe it, and it would be
out of everything!

Adieu!

He swung over the low railing of the porch and ran into the moors
beyond. 14 Randers, after Wenningstedt want.

He had the thing with the economy in order. How to run them, without
paying.

Randers But could not this afternoon after Wenningstedt.

The fog did not want to, the light, pulling fog, which had collected all
of a sudden!

The sky was still clear but the beach, the Wadden sea, everything
was in this whitish fog drowned.

Dumm! Randers said aloud. Whether he was in the jug? Then, would he
even through the fog. At the end it was a very nice writing and
Leseabend. He could also stay at home.

The new unaufgeschnitten Maeterlinck were still there and the last
d'Annunzio, "Triumph of Death."

He threw a glance in the novel, suggested carelessly on one side:
"His heart swelled before confused yearning for physical force,
after the victorious health, a life full almost savage pleasure,
after a single unverbildeter love, after the large, original freedom.

He felt like a moment of need, the old shell, which oppressed him, and to
break her as a completely new person to emerge, free of all mists ,
which grieved him from all afflictions, which had hampered him.

He had the seductive vision of a future existence in which he redeemed from
all harmful properties of any external tyranny of every sad mistake,
things looked as if he they would for the first time and before the
whole wide universe had openly as a human face.

Could not be because the miracle of this young woman come to the stone
table under the oak breastfeed the new bread broken and shared
with him was?

could because not begin on that day, the new life? "That gave him.
Randers put the lamp. He wanted to read.

The new life of this woman? He just wanted to close the shutters when
it knocked out. The wobbly klirrte doorknob and the door creaked, as
if she hesitantly opened.

Randers came with the lamp in his hand out to the hallway and looked into
the astonished face equally astonished Miss Lorenz.
Take back your words, mother, take back your
words, or--"

Katuti turned paler and paler, and said soothingly:

"The words may sound hard, but he has broken faith with you, and openly
dishonored you."

If Sepulveda, who was the teacher of King Philip, in defending its
"Conclusions" the right to distribute the crown as slaves, and kill
the Indians, because they were not Christians, Sepulveda said he had no
fault to be without Christianity that Christ did not know they had, or
knew the language that was spoken of Christ, nor had more news of Christ
that they had taken the Arcabuco. And if the king in the person's wrinkled
brow, and to cut her speech grew a few inches in the light of the king,
he was hoarse and powerful voice, he was shaking his fist in his hat,
and the king said to him, face to face, that the boss has a male to care
for them, and if you do not know to care, it can not mandar, and that
he had heard in peace, because he did not come with patches of gold
on the white dress nor bring more defense than the cross. or speak,
or write without rest.

The Dominican friars helped, and the convent of the friars were
spent eight years writing.

I knew religion and laws, and Latin authors, it was soon learned was in
his time, but everything skillfully used to defend the human right to
liberty, and the duty of rulers to respect it. That was saying something,
because why then burned men. Llorente, who has written the "Life of Las
Casas' also wrote the" History of the Inquisition which was the
one who burned the king went to see the burning gala, with the queen
and the knights of the court: in front of the damned singing bishops
came with a green flag from the blaze left a black smoke.

And Fonseca Sepulveda and wanted "the cleric" Casas said some sin
in their disputes against the authority of the Church to condemn
what the inquisitors for heresy.

But "the cleric" Fonseca told him: 'What I say is what he said in his
good Queen Elizabeth, and I want you bad and slander me, because you remove
the blood that comes from bread, and acknowledge the encomienda of Indians
who have in America! "
I did it also worried that even more
impatience to strengthen the already very inflames seemed, and at the
same time flattering me, just by mixing humor ago, the hours when
her husband not to eat any, talk, it makes you sleep; And your
education can be so disfiguring as it is your version has bemeistert,
So I do not know anymore.

My husband was more expensive, Tells me the cause of your grief with.
Brutus. I'm not quite healthy, and that is everything.

Portia.
"Yes, but he wants so do not marry, is not sentimental tie." "He's a
visionary," she replied with emphasis, "the conditions are impossible
dreams."

"Say you do not." "But I would ask You! way you know the beautiful auszumalen.
"" Is not it beautiful?

"" You are a poet. "" Not yet! "" You can give your mouth watering properly
made. "" Look! "13 Randers had roses found in his room. He ran
through the fields and thought of these roses. How come they will, to
send you roses? Has it because you do not understand? Believe it, you mean
it is not serious? You would not go after Fanø Jolanthe and leave
another?
And the sun
is dancing, laughing, the sun that its rays apart whirl us umwirbeln, a
flickering, lightning-sustaining glittering veil, in which we round in
circles, you and me in our bare beauty and joy in our bare.
My favorite child will become the spy of my actions,
and my judge."

"Here," he asked. Helga smiled. She stood in the full moonlight, and sang.
He had thrown to her feet and saw the sea beyond. Like the sound. As
she sang. This longing, this hot, hot heart and soul I love you!
"The saints are blind," said Raja, "men are saints who want to know:
men must learn everything by themselves, and not to believe without
asking, not to speak without understanding or thinking like slaves
so that they send others to think : the four are blind to see the
elephant with their gentle hands.

"drove the four to run as if they had suddenly become visible: a nose
fell on the steps of the throne of Raja: the other was against the
wall so Recio that fell sitting, seeing if he had been in coscorrón
ido a cutting head: the other two, with open arms, they were suddenly
embraced.

The secretary of the Raja took manso where the elephant was, eating
his ration of thirty-nine and fifteen rice cakes of corn, a source
of silver with ebony foot, and every blind was dropped, when the
secretary said ' Now, 'above the elephant, which was small and
plump, one is embraced by one leg, the other was stuck to the trunk,
and climbed down into the air and unwittingly release the other he
was holding the tail: another had grasped a handle on the source
of rice and maize.

'I know' said the leg, "the elephant is tall and round, like a tower
that moves." "Not really, 'said the horn:" The elephant is long and
ends at peak as a funnel of flesh. " 'Wrong, very wrong,' said the
queue:" The elephant is like a bell clapper "" All wrong, all, the elephant
is contained in a ring, and not moves, "said the handle of the
source.

