Produced by David Widger


GUY DE MAUPASSANT

ORIGINAL SHORT STORIES

Translated by
ALBERT M. C. McMASTER, B.A.
A. E. HENDERSON, B.A.
MME. QUESADA and Others


VOLUME IX.


They
were all enterprising
business men in
their
day, well
known
throughout Eastern
Massachusetts, and the
undertaking for
which they
combined seemed as
vast to the
rural denizens
of the towns through which it passed as did the Pacific Railroad
enterprise to capitalists twenty years ago.

To the surprise of the honest farmers, who considered the crooked
county roads good enough for them, it made almost a straight line
from one terminus to the other, and was laid out four rods in
width--a reckless waste of land--as a preventive against snow
blockades in winter Instead of following the windings of valley and
stream as other roads did, this pike mounted directly over all
interposing hills, in accordance with the most approved theories
of civil engineers of that day; and where sections of those old
thoroughfares still remain intact, it is amusing to observe at what
steep, straight grades they were made to climb the most abrupt
ascent, curving neither to the right nor to the left in merciful
consideration for the horses.

But it must not be supposed that public stage-coach travel on the
route here indicated began with the opening of the Norfolk and
Bristol Turnpike.

The first conveyance of the kind started on its devious way over the poor
county roads from Boston to Providence in 1767; and the quaint Jedediah
Morse records that twelve years later the "intercourse of the
country barely required two stages and twelve horses on this line";
but the same authority states that in 1797 twenty stages and one
hundred horses were employed, and that the number of different
stages leaving Boston during the week was twenty.

His little house seemed ridiculously small, far too small and
too low to hold him; and when people saw him standing at his door, as he
did all day long, they asked one another how he could possibly get
through the door. But he went in whenever a customer appeared, for it was
only right that Toine should be invited to take his thimbleful of
whatever was drunk in his wine shop.

His inn bore the sign: "The Friends' Meeting-Place"--and old Toine
was, indeed, the friend of all. His customers came from Fecamp and
Montvilliers, just for the fun of seeing him and hearing him talk; for
fat Toine would have made a tombstone laugh. He had a way of chaffing
people without offending them, or of winking to express what he didn't
say, of slapping his thighs when he was merry in such a way as to make
you hold your sides, laughing. And then, merely to see him drink was a
curiosity. He drank everything that was offered him, his roguish eyes
twinkling, both with the enjoyment of drinking and at the thought of the
money he was taking in. His was a double pleasure: first, that of
drinking; and second, that of piling up the cash.

You should have heard him quarrelling with his wife! It was worth paying
for to see them together. They had wrangled all the thirty years they had
been married; but Toine was good-humored, while his better-half grew
angry. She was a tall peasant woman, who walked with long steps like a
stork, and had a head resembling that of an angry screech-owl. She spent
her time rearing chickens in a little poultry-yard behind the inn, and
she was noted for her success in fattening them for the table.

Whenever the gentry of Fecamp gave a dinner they always had at least one
of Madame Toine's chickens to be in the fashion.

But she was born ill-tempered, and she went through life in a mood of
perpetual discontent. Annoyed at everyone, she seemed to be particularly
annoyed at her husband. She disliked his gaiety, his reputation, his rude
health, his embonpoint. She treated him as a good-for-nothing creature
because he earned his money without working, and as a glutton because he
ate and drank as much as ten ordinary men; and not a day went by without
her declaring spitefully:

"You'd be better in the stye along with the pigs! You're so fat it makes
me sick to look at you!"

And she would shout in his face:

"Wait! Wait a bit! We'll see! You'll burst one of these fine days like a
sack of corn-you old bloat, you!"

Toine would laugh heartily, patting his corpulent person, and replying:

"Well, well, old hen, why don't you fatten up your chickens like that?
just try!"

And, rolling his sleeves back from his enormous arm, he said:

"That would make a fine wing now, wouldn't it?"

And the customers, doubled up with laughter, would thump the table with
their fists and stamp their feet on the floor.

The old woman, mad with rage, would repeat:

"Wait a bit! Wait a bit! You'll see what'll happen. He'll burst like a
sack of grain!"

And off she would go, amid the jeers and laughter of the drinkers.

Toine was, in fact, an astonishing sight, he was so fat, so heavy, so
red. He was one of those enormous beings with whom Death seems to be
amusing himself--playing perfidious tricks and pranks, investing
with an irresistibly comic air his slow work of destruction. Instead of
manifesting his approach, as with others, in white hairs, in emaciation,
in wrinkles, in the gradual collapse which makes the onlookers say: "Gad!
how he has changed!" he took a malicious pleasure in fattening Toine, in
making him monstrous and absurd, in tingeing his face with a deep
crimson, in giving him the appearance of superhuman health, and the
changes he inflicts on all were in the case of Toine laughable, comic,
amusing, instead of being painful and distressing to witness.

"Wait a bit! Wait a bit!" said his wife. "You'll see."

At last Toine had an apoplectic fit, and was paralyzed in consequence.
The giant was put to bed in the little room behind the partition of the
drinking-room that he might hear what was said and talk to his friends,
for his head was quite clear although his enormous body was helplessly
inert. It was hoped at first that his immense legs would regain some
degree of power; but this hope soon disappeared, and Toine spent his days
and nights in the bed, which was only made up once a week, with the help
of four neighbors who lifted the innkeeper, each holding a limb, while
his mattress was turned.

He kept his spirits, nevertheless; but his gaiety was of a different
kind--more timid, more humble; and he lived in a constant, childlike
fear of his wife, who grumbled from morning till night:

"Look at him there--the great glutton! the good-for-nothing
creature, the old boozer! Serve him right, serve him right!"

He no longer answered her. He contented himself with winking behind the
old woman's back, and turning over on his other side--the only
movement of which he was now capable. He called this exercise a "tack to
the north" or a "tack to the south."

His great distraction nowadays was to listen to the conversations in the
bar, and to shout through the wall when he recognized a friend's voice:

"Hallo, my son-in-law! Is that you, Celestin?"

And Celestin Maloisel answered:

"Yes, it's me, Toine. Are you getting about again yet, old fellow?"

"Not exactly getting about," answered Toine. "But I haven't grown thin;
my carcass is still good."

Soon he got into the way of asking his intimates into his room to keep
him company, although it grieved him to see that they had to drink
without him. It pained him to the quick that his customers should be
drinking without him.

"That's what hurts worst of all," he would say: "that I cannot drink my
Extra-Special any more. I can put up with everything else, but going
without drink is the very deuce."

Then his wife's screech-owl face would appear at the window, and she
would break in with the words:

"Look at him! Look at him now, the good-for-nothing wretch! I've got to
feed him and wash him just as if he were a pig!"

And when the old woman had gone, a cock with red feathers would sometimes
fly up to the window sill and looking into the room with his round
inquisitive eye, would begin to crow loudly. Occasionally, too, a few
hens would flutter as far as the foot of the bed, seeking crumbs on the
floor. Toine's friends soon deserted the drinking room to come and chat
every afternoon beside the invalid's bed. Helpless though he was, the
jovial Toine still provided them with amusement. He would have made the
devil himself laugh. Three men were regular in their attendance at the
bedside: Celestin Maloisel, a tall, thin fellow, somewhat gnarled, like
the trunk of an apple-tree; Prosper Horslaville, a withered little man
with a ferret nose, cunning as a fox; and Cesaire Paumelle, who never
spoke, but who enjoyed Toine's society all the same.

They brought a plank from the yard, propped it upon the edge of the bed,
and played dominoes from two till six.

But Toine's wife soon became insufferable. She could not endure that her
fat, lazy husband should amuse himself at games while lying in his bed;
and whenever she caught him beginning a game she pounced furiously on the
dominoes, overturned the plank, and carried all away into the bar,
declaring that it was quite enough to have to feed that fat, lazy pig
without seeing him amusing himself, as if to annoy poor people who had to
work hard all day long.

Celestin Maloisel and Cesaire Paumelle bent their heads to the storm, but
Prosper Horslaville egged on the old woman, and was only amused at her
wrath.

One day, when she was more angry than usual, he said:

"Do you know what I'd do if I were you?"

She fixed her owl's eyes on him, and waited for his next words.

Prosper went on:

"Your man is as hot as an oven, and he never leaves his bed--well,
I'd make him hatch some eggs."

She was struck dumb at the suggestion, thinking that Prosper could not
possibly be in earnest. But he continued:

"I'd put five under one arm, and five under the other, the same day that
I set a hen. They'd all come out at the same time; then I'd take your
husband's chickens to the hen to bring up with her own. You'd rear a fine
lot that way."

"Could it be done?" asked the astonished old woman.

"Could it be done?" echoed the man. "Why not? Since eggs can be hatched
in a warm box why shouldn't they be hatched in a warm bed?"

She was struck by this reasoning, and went away soothed and reflective.

A week later she entered Toine's room with her apron full of eggs, and
said:

"I've just put the yellow hen on ten eggs. Here are ten for you; try not
to break them."

"What do you want?" asked the amazed Toine.

"I want you to hatch them, you lazy creature!" she answered.

He laughed at first; then, finding she was serious, he got angry, and
refused absolutely to have the eggs put under his great arms, that the
warmth of his body might hatch them.

But the old woman declared wrathfully:

"You'll get no dinner as long as you won't have them. You'll see what'll
happen."

Tome was uneasy, but answered nothing.

When twelve o'clock struck, he called out:

"Hullo, mother, is the soup ready?"

"There's no soup for you, lazy-bones," cried the old woman from her
kitchen.

He thought she must be joking, and waited a while. Then he begged,
implored, swore, "tacked to the north" and "tacked to the south," and
beat on the wall with his fists, but had to consent at last to five eggs
being placed against his left side; after which he had his soup.

When his friends arrived that afternoon they thought he must be ill, he
seemed so constrained and queer.

They started the daily game of dominoes. But Tome appeared to take no
pleasure in it, and reached forth his hand very slowly, and with great
precaution.

"What's wrong with your arm?" asked Horslaville.

"I have a sort of stiffness in the shoulder," answered Toine.

Suddenly they heard people come into the inn. The players were silent.

It was the mayor with the deputy. They ordered two glasses of
Extra-Special, and began to discuss local affairs. As they were talking
in somewhat low tones Toine wanted to put his ear to the wall, and,
forgetting all about his eggs, he made a sudden "tack to the north,"
which had the effect of plunging him into the midst of an omelette.

At the loud oath he swore his wife came hurrying into the room, and,
guessing what had happened, stripped the bedclothes from him with
lightning rapidity. She stood at first without moving or uttering a
syllable, speechless with indignation at sight of the yellow poultice
sticking to her husband's side.

Then, trembling with fury, she threw herself on the paralytic, showering
on him blows such as those with which she cleaned her linen on the
seashore. Tome's three friends were choking with laughter, coughing,
spluttering and shouting, and the fat innkeeper himself warded his wife's
attacks with all the prudence of which he was capable, that he might not
also break the five eggs at his other side.

Robertson to our government for better horses is reasonable; and he tries
to help the government with a carefully studied business proposition
through which to enable our government to grant the supplication
of the army.

That Lieut. Robertson loves a horse, and knows what a good one is, no man
can dispute who has read his article; but as to how it can best be
produced, he does not know.

While I for one applaud both his article and his earnestness, with your
permission I will make some suggestions as to the breeding side
of his proposition.

The business portion will, of course, come under the ordnance
department in any event.

As for a government breeding establishment for any kind of livestock in
this great agricultural country, I feel that such would be at
variance with the interests of husbandry in America.

The breeding of horses is particularly an important branch of
agriculture, and the farmers should be assisted by the government
in the improvement of their horses, until they are raised to a
standard which in case of emergency could supply the army at a
moment's notice with the best horses in the world at the least
possible expense.

Our government Agricultural Bureau is constantly spending thousands
of dollars to help the agriculturist in matter of better and greater
varieties of improved seeds and the better way for cultivation.

Now, the seed of animal life is as important as in vegetable life
to the interest and welfare of the husbandman, which also means the
government.

For the government to become a monopolist of any important branch
in agriculture is not in harmony with the principles of our
republican-democratic form of government.

While advocating a protective tariff against outside depreciation
of home industries, our government should not in any way approach
monarchical intrusion upon the industries of its husbandmen.

Our government cannot afford to make its agriculturists competitors
in so important a matter to them (the farmers) as in the raising
of horses; but the government can see to it that the husbandman has
a standard for excellence in the breeding of horses which shall be
recognized as a national standard the civilized world over.

Then, by that standard, and through our superior advantages over any
other civilized nation in the vast extent of cheap and good grass
lands, with abundance of pure water, and with all temperatures of
climate, we can grow, as a people, the best horses in the world,
to be known as the National Horse of America.

Our government must have a blood standard for the breeding of horses, by
which our horses can be bred and raised true to a type, able to
reproduce itself in any country to which we may export them; and
the types can be several, as our territory is so great and demands
so varied, but blood and breeding must be the standard for each type.

Our fancy breeders have a standard now, called a "time standard," which
is purely a gambling standard, demoralizing in all its tendencies
to both man and beast.

With this the government need have nothing to do, for it will die out
of itself as the masses learn more of it, and especially would it
cease to be, once the government established a _blood_ standard for
the breeding of all horses, and particularly a National Horse.

When the cereal crops of our country are light, or the prices fall
below profitable production, the farmer has always a colt or two to sell,
thus helping him through the year. In place of constantly importing horses
from France, England, and Scotland, where they are raised mostly
in paddocks, and paying out annually millions of dollars, it is our
duty to be exporting.

As an American I am ashamed when I see paraded at our county or state
fairs stallions and mares wearing the "blue ribbon" of superexcellence,
with boastful exclamation by the owner of "a thoroughbred imported
Percheron, or a thoroughbred imported French coacher, or a thoroughbred
imported Scotch Clyde, or a thoroughbred imported English coacher,
or a thoroughbred imported English Shire, or a thoroughbred imported
English Cleveland Bay!"

The American farmer and his boys look on aghast at the majesty and beauty
of these prize winners over our big-headed, crowbar-necked, limp-tailed,
peeked-quartered horses called "standard bred!"

What standard?

"Time standard," as created by a man who is neither a horseman nor
a breeder; but because of the lack of intelligent information and
want of courage upon the part of a few, this man's _ipse dixit_ has
become law for the American breeders until such time as cultured
intelligence shall cause them to rebel.

It soon will.

It is indeed time for the government to step in and regulate our horse
breeding.

Of all the national industries there is none of more importance than
that of horses.

More so in America than in any other country, because our facilities are
greater, and results can be greater under proper regulation. Lieut.
Robertson has proved to be the right man in the right place, to open
the door for glorious results to our nation.

No one man or a small body of men can regulate this horse-breeding industry,
but as in France, Russia, and England, the government must place
its hand and voice.

We are indeed an infant country, but have grown to an age where parental
restraint must be used now, if ever.

We have millions of farmers in America, breeding annually millions
of horses; and except we have another internal war, our horses will
soon become a burden and a pest.

There are numbers of rich men throughout the country breeding fancy
horses, for sport and speculation, but they only add to the increasing
burden of useless animals, except for gambling purposes; for they
are neither work horses, coach horses, nor saddle horses.

Our farmers of the land are the breeders, as our recent war of the
rebellion testified. The war of 1812, the Mexican war of 1847, and the
war of 1861 each called for horses at a moment's notice, and our
farmers supplied them, destroying foundation bloods for recuperation.

From 1861 to 1863 the noble patriotism of our farmers caused them
to vie with each other as to who should give the best and least
money to help the government; and cannot our government now do
something for the strength and sinew of the land, the farmers?

I was dealing in horses, more or less, from 1861 to 1863 (as I had been
before and long after), and many was the magnificent horse I saw led out
by the farmer for the government, at a minimum price, when, previous
to 1861, $400, $500, and even $600 was refused for the same animals.
Horses that would prove a headlight to any gentleman's coach in the
city, and others that would trot off fourteen to sixteen miles an hour
on the road as easy as they would eat their oats, went into the cavalry
or artillery or to baggage trains.

What were left for recuperation at the close of the war were mongrels
from Canada or the Indian and wild lands of the West, and such
other lazy brutes as our good farmers would not impose upon the
government with or later were condemned by the army buyers.

These were largely of the Abdallah type of horse, noted for coarseness,
homeliness, also soft and lazy constitutions.

No one disputes the brute homeliness of the Abdallah horse, and in
this the old and trite saying of "Like begets like" is exemplified
in descendants, with which our country is flooded.

The speed element of which we boast was left in our mares of Arabian
blood through Clay and Morgan, but was so limited in numbers as to
be an apology for our present time standard in the breeding of fancy
horses.

Knowing that Abdallah blood produced no speed, and being largely
ignorant as to the breeding of our mares, which were greatly scattered
over the land after the war, some kind of a guess had to be made
as to the possibility of the colts we were breeding, hence the time
standard fallacy.

But it has ruined enough men, and gone far enough.

Upon Lieutenant Robertson's proposition, a turn can be made, and a
solid base for blood with breeding of all American horses can be
demanded by the government for the country's good.

From the earliest history of man, as a people increased in wealth, they
gave attention to mental culture with refinement; following which the
horse was cultivated to a high _blood_ standard with national pride. From
the Egyptians, the Moors, the Romans, and Britons to France, Russia, and
Prussia we look, finding the horse by each nation had been a national
pride--each nation resorting to the same primitive blood from which to
create its type, and that primitive was the Arabian.

Scientists have theorized, men have written, and boys have imagined in
print, as to some other than the Arabian from which to create a type of
horse, and yet through all ages we find that Arabian has been the one
stepping stone for each advanced nation upon which blood to build its
national horse.

Scientists have reasoned and explored, trying to prove to the
contrary, but what have they proved?

The Arabian horse still remains the fact.

The lion, the tiger, the leopard, still remain the same, as does
the ass and the zebra.

As God created and man named them, with all animal life, subject to the
will of man, so do they all continue to remain and reproduce, each true
to its type, free from imperfections or disease; also the same in
vegetable and mineral life. In animal life, the build, form, color,
size, and instincts remain the same, true to its blood from the first,
and yet all was created for man through which to amuse him and
make him work.

It is a fact that all of man's creations from any primitive life,
either animal or vegetable, will degenerate and cease to be, while
of God's perfect creations, all continue the same.

We will condense on the horse.

The Arabian is the most pliable in its blood of any other known to
man.

From it, any other type can be created.

Once a type has been created, it must be sustained in itself by close
breeding, which can be continued for quite a number of years without
degeneracy. For invigoration or revitalizing, resort must be made to
its primitive blood cause.

To go out of the family to colder or even warmer creations of man
means greater mongrelization of both blood and instinct, also to
invite new diseases.

Nothing is more infatuating than the breeding of horses.

A gifted practical student in the laws of animal life may create a
new and fixed type of horse, but it can be as quickly destroyed by
the multitude, through ignorant mongrelization.

In the breeding of horses, our people are wild; and in no industry can
our government do more good than in making laws relating to their
breeding.

It can father the production of a national horse without owning a breeding
farm. It can make _blood_ and _breeding_ a standard for different
types, and see to it that its laws are obeyed, thus benefiting all the
agriculturists, and have breeding farms in America; and also itself as
a government, financially. We must not however begin upon the creation
of other nations, but independently upon God's gift to man, as did
England, France, and Russia. That a government should interfere
in the breeding of horses is no new thing. The Arabs of the desert boast
to this day of King Solomon's stud of horses; but in each and every
instance where a nation has regulated and encouraged the breeding of
the horse to a high standard of excellence, they have all begun at the
primitive, or Arabian. Thus England in boasting of her thoroughbred
race horse admits it to be of Arabian origin.

Russia in boasting of her Orloff trotting and saddle horse tells
you it is of Arabian origin.

France boldly informs you that her Percheron is but an enlarged Arabian,
and offers annual special premiums to such as revitalize it with
fresh Arabian blood.

After the war of 1812 our forefathers imported many Arabian stallions
to recuperate the blood of their remnants in horses.

From 1830 such prominent men as Andrew Jackson and Henry Clay said
all they could by private letter and public speech to encourage the
importation of and breeding freely to the Arabian horse, and specially
did the State of Kentucky follow the advice of Henry Clay, so that
from 1830 up to 1857 Kentucky had more Arabian stallions in her
little district than the combined States of the Union.

Kentucky has had a prestige in her mares since the war, and it comes in
the larger amount of Arabian blood influence she has had in them,
than could be found elsewhere.

Kentucky is shut in, as it were, and retaining her mares largely
impregnated with Arabian blood, all that was necessary for them to
do was to get trotting-bred stallions from New York State, then
eclipse all other States in the produce.

While I cheerfully award to Kentucky all credit due to it, I am not
willing that Lieut.

Robertson should make his base for government breeding establishment
sectional, nor would I submit to England through Kentucky.

I am too American for that.

For cavalry purposes, the Prussian horse is the best in the world, and is
also Arabian in its closest foundation.

To get at this blood question more definitely, let us inquire into these
different recognized self-producing national types of horses abroad.

First is the English thoroughbred race horse, which is simply an improved
Arab. The functions of this English national horse are but twofold--to
run races and to beget himself, after which he ceases to be of
value.

He is not a producer of any other type of value; to breed him out of
his family is mongrelism and degeneracy, so we don't want him, even though
we could humiliate our American pride through our loved State of
Kentucky.

Count Orloff of Russia was a great horseman, exceedingly fond of
horseback riding independent of the chase.

He tried in 1800 to breed a satisfactory horse from the English thoroughbred
race horse, but went from bad to worse until he resorted to the ever-pliant
blood of the Arabian. He sent to Egypt and secured a thoroughbred Arabian
stallion, paying $8,000 for him (in our money). This horse he bred to
Danish mares, largely of Arabian blood, and created a very stout,
short-backed horse, standing from 15½ to 15¾ and 16 hands high, of
great trotting speed, also able to run to weight, and with good
disposition, which the English thoroughbred did not have.

This type he continued to close-breed, going back to the Arabian for renewed
stoutness. At his death, his estates passed to his daughter, who continued
her father's breedings until the Russian government purchased the
entire collection, about 1846, since when the Russian government
Orloff trotting and saddle horse has become famous the world over
as a first-class saddle, cavalry, stage coach, and trotting horse
combined.

They are broken at three years of age, and scarce any that cannot
beat 2:30 at trotting speed, and from that down to 2:15 in their
crude way of hitching and driving.

This is something for American breeders to think very interestedly
upon.

France wanted heavy draught horses, also proud coach horses; so rather
than go to any competing nation for their created types, her enterprising
subjects took the same Arabian blood, and from it created the beautiful
Percheron, also French coach horses, so greatly valued and admired the
world over, and which the gifted and immortal Rosa Bonheur has so happily
reproduced upon canvas. Can America show any kind of a horse to tempt her
brush?

With regard to a foundation for a government or national horse, I
am certain so gifted and able United States officer as Mr.

S.C.

Robertson did not know that it was unnecessary to go to England for the
blood of their national horse, even though we smuggled it through
Kentucky or any other of our States. Again, it would be impossible to
produce any type of a horse from the English thoroughbred, except a dunghill,
and Mr. Robertson would not have his government breed national dunghills!

I love England as our mother country, but am an American, born and
dyed in the wool to our independence, from the "Declaration."
Now let us see what England says of her thoroughbred: "He is no longer
to be relied upon for fulfilling his twofold functions as a racer and
reproducer of himself. He is degenerating in stoutness and speed. As a
sire he has acquired faults of constitution and temper which,
while leaving him the best we have, is not the best we should aspire
to have. His stoutness and speed are distinctly Arabian qualities, to which
we must resort for fresh and pure blood." We have shown that the Englishman
says "his thoroughbred is full of radical and growing defects in wind,
tendons, feet, and temper, and that his twofold functions are to
run races and reproduce himself, which are the end of his purpose."

Does our government want breeding farms upon which to nurse these
admitted "defects," including the "confirmed roarer," for cavalry
horses?

I quote again: "Those who have had most to do with him are ready to
admit that he no longer possesses the soundness, stoutness, speed, courage,
and beauty he inherited from his Arabian parentage. As a sire for half-bred
stock, he may do for those who will use him, but we must resort to the
Arabian if we would revitalize and sustain our thoroughbred race
horse."

In the face of these statements, in print abroad, would Lieut.
Robertson make the base for our proposed national horse that of the
English thoroughbred, scattering the weeds from such imperfect
breedings among the farmers of our land?

I am writing as an old horseman and breeder, and not as a newspaper man or
young enthusiast, although the enthusiasm of youth is still in me, for
which I am thankful.

This question of horse breeding I have been deeply interested in for forty
years past. Let me quote to the reader from one of many letters I have
received from Sir Wilfrid Seawen Blunt during the past seven years.
His practical knowledge of the English thoroughbred race horse and
his blood cause, the Arabian, is the equal if not superior to any other
one man of this present age.

With his wife, Lady Anne, he dwelt with the different tribes of the
desert, studying the Arabs as a people, in their customs and habits,
also traditions with beliefs.

In matter of their horses, Mr. Blunt made a special study, while
Lady Anne put her diaries in book form after her return, and which
book should be owned by every cultured and educated lady in America.
After spending a year in Arabia, traveling both sides of the
Euphrates and through Mesopotamia, as no other Anglo-Saxons have
been known to do, living with the different Bedouin tribes of the
desert as they lived, Mr.

Blunt and his wife, Lady Anne, came out with sixteen of the choicest
bred mares to be found, also two stallions, the mares mostly with
foal.

These were placed upon their estates, "Crabbet Park," to continue
inbreeding as upon the desert, pure to its blood. As this question in
itself will make a long and interesting article, I will avoid it
at present, quoting to the reader from one of my old letters:
"CRABBET PARK, SUSSEX, ENGLAND.

"Dear Sir: Political matters have prevented an earlier reply to
your last.

"I am well satisfied with my present results, and shall not abandon
what I have undertaken. The practical merits of Arabian blood are well
understood by us.

"Our sale of young stock maintains itself in good prices in spite of bad
times; indeed, my average within the past two years has risen from £84
to £102 on the pure-breds sold as yearlings, and we receive the most
flattering and satisfactory accounts from purchasers, although it is
known that I retain the best of each year's produce, and so have
greatly improved my breeding stock.

"You speak of the opinions of the press as against you.

The sporting press are not breeders, but are the mouthpiece of
prejudices.

We have had them somewhat against us, but they now view things in more
friendly tone.

"For immediate use in running races (in which the sporting press are
chiefly interested), the Arabian in his undeveloped state and under
size will not compete with the English race horse.

This fact has caused racing men to doubt his other many and more important
merits; indeed, it is only those who have had personal experience of him
that as yet acknowledge them.

"The strong points in the Arabian are many:

"_First_, his undoubted soundness in constitution, in _wind_, _limb_,
and _feet_.

It will be noticed that the Englishman must have soundness in wind,
limb, and feet, showing that their thoroughbred is the thorn in
that particular.

The Arabian has also wonderful intelligence, great beauty, and good
disposition, with an almost affectionate desire to adapt himself to
your wishes.

"In breeding, I have found the pure-breds delicate during the first few
weeks after birth, and have lost a good many, especially those foaled
early in the year; yet it is a remarkable fact that during the
eight years of my breeding them, I have had no serious illness in
the stables; once over the dangerous age, they seem to have excellent
constitutions, and are always sound in _wind_, _limb_, and _feet_.

"_Second_, they are nearly all good natural and _fast walkers_, also
fast trotters; and from the soundness of their feet are especially
fitted for fast road work, being able to do almost any number of
miles without fatigue.

"_Third_, they are nearly all good natural jumpers, and I have not had
a single instance of a colt that would not go across country well to
hounds.

"They are very bold fencers, requiring neither whip nor spur.
They carry weight well, making bold and easy jumps where other larger
horses fail.

"_Fourth_, they have naturally good mouths, and good tempers, with free and
easy paces; so that one who has accustomed himself to riding a pure-bred
Arabian will hardly go back, if he can help it, to any other sort
of horse.

"There is all the difference in riding the Arabian and the ordinary English
hunter or half-bred that there is in riding in a well-hung gig or
a cart without springs.

"_Fifth._ As sires for half-bred stock, the Arabian may not be
better than a _first-class_ English thoroughbred, but is certainly
better than a _second_-class one, and _first_-class sires are out
of the reach of all ordinary breeders; for that reason I recommend
a fair trial of his quality, confident your breeders will not be
disappointed.

"With good young mares who require a horse to give their offspring
quality, that is to say, beauty, with courage and stoutness, and
with a turn of speed for fast road work, the Arabian is better than
any class of English thoroughbreds that are used for cross breeding.

"I trust then for that reason you will not allow yourself to be
discouraged by the slowness of the people to appreciate all the
merits of the Arabian at once.

"Our breeders are full of prejudices, and only experience can teach them
the value of things outside their own circle of knowledge.

"I have no doubt whatever that truth will in the end prevail; but
you must have patience.

Remember that a public is always impatient, and most often unreasonably
so.

"My stud I keep at a permanent strength of twelve brood mares, and
as many fillies growing in reserve.

"You ask me regarding the _pacing_ gait.

I have seen it in the pure-bred Arabs on the desert; and in many parts of
the East it is cultivated, notably in Asia Minor and Barbary. The walk,
pace, amble, trot, and run are found in the Arabian, and either
can be cultivated as a specialty.

"If you think any of my letters to you are of general value to your people,
I am quite willing you should so use them.

"I am, very truly yours,
"WILFRID SCAWEN BLUNT.

"To RANDOLPH HUNTINGTON, Rochester, N.Y."

My experience with Arabian blood the past seven years justifies all
that Mr. Blunt has predicted to me from time to time. So also do old letters
by Andrew Jackson and Henry Clay hold out the same inducements to
the breeders of Kentucky and Tennessee in their day.

From my long years of experience in all classes of horses, I am frank
to say to-day that I would not be without a thoroughbred Arabian stallion
on my place, and journalists who inform their readers that they
"are liable to splints, ringbones, and spavins," give themselves
away to all intelligent readers and breeders as exceedingly superficial
in matter of horses; for ringbones and spavins are positively unknown
among the Arabs.

The way to get rid of such imperfections in our mongrel breed of horses is
to fill them up with pure Arab blood.

Such paper men also talk about "_fresh Diomed_" and "fresh Messenger
blood," as though there had been a drop of it in never so diluted
form for any influence these many years, of course forgetting that
_Diomed_ was a very strongly _inbred Arabian_ horse.
The regiment that he commanded was, besides, a picked regiment celebrated
all through the province, and the company of grenadiers of Gisors was
called on to attend all important ceremonies for a distance of fifteen to
twenty leagues. The story goes that Louis Philippe, while reviewing the
militia of Eure, stopped in astonishment before the company from Gisors,
exclaiming:

"Oh, who are those splendid grenadiers?"

"The grenadiers of Gisors," replied the general.

"I might have known it," murmured the king.

So Commandant Desbarres came at the head of his men, preceded by the
band, to get Isidore in his mother's store.

After a little air had been played by the band beneath the windows, the
"Rosier" himself appeared--on the threshold. He was dressed in white
duck from head to foot and wore a straw hat with a little bunch of orange
blossoms as a cockade.

The question of his clothes had bothered Mme. Husson a good deal, and she
hesitated some time between the black coat of those who make their first
communion and an entire white suit. But Francoise, her counsellor,
induced her to decide on the white suit, pointing out that the Rosier
would look like a swan.

Behind him came his guardian, his godmother, Mme. Husson, in triumph. She
took his arm to go out of the store, and the mayor placed himself on the
other side of the Rosier. The drums beat. Commandant Desbarres gave the
order "Present arms!" The procession resumed its march towards the church
amid an immense crowd of people who has gathered from the neighboring
districts.

After a short mass and an affecting discourse by Abbe Malon, they
continued on their way to the couronneaux, where the banquet was served
in a tent.

Before taking their seats at table, the mayor gave an address. This is
it, word for word. I learned it by heart:

"Young man, a woman of means, beloved by the poor and respected by the
rich, Mme. Husson, whom the whole country is thanking here, through me,
had the idea, the happy and benevolent idea, of founding in this town a
prize for, virtue, which should serve as a valuable encouragement to the
inhabitants of this beautiful country.

"You, young man, are the first to be rewarded in this dynasty of goodness
and chastity. Your name will remain at the head of this list of the most
deserving, and your life, understand me, your whole life, must correspond
to this happy commencement. To-day, in presence of this noble woman, of
these soldier-citizens who have taken up their arms in your honor, in
presence of this populace, affected, assembled to applaud you, or,
rather, to applaud virtue, in your person, you make a solemn contract
with the town, with all of us, to continue until your death the excellent
example of your youth.

"Do not forget, young man, that you are the first seed cast into this
field of hope; give us the fruits that we expect of you."

The mayor advanced three steps, opened his arms and pressed Isidore to
his heart.

The "Rosier" was sobbing without knowing why, from a confused emotion,
from pride and a vague and happy feeling of tenderness.

Then the mayor placed in one hand a silk purse in which gold tingled
--five hundred francs in gold!--and in his other hand a savings
bank book. And he said in a solemn tone:

"Homage, glory and riches to virtue."

Commandant Desbarres shouted "Bravo!" the grenadiers vociferated, and the
crowd applauded.

Mme. Husson wiped her eyes, in her turn. Then they all sat down at the
table where the banquet was served.

The repast was magnificent and seemed interminable. One course followed
another; yellow cider and red wine in fraternal contact blended in the
stomach of the guests. The rattle of plates, the sound of voices, and of
music softly played, made an incessant deep hum, and was dispersed abroad
in the clear sky where the swallows were flying. Mme. Husson occasionally
readjusted her black wig, which would slip over on one side, and chatted
with Abbe Malon. The mayor, who was excited, talked politics with
Commandant Desbarres, and Isidore ate, drank, as if he had never eaten or
drunk before. He helped himself repeatedly to all the dishes, becoming
aware for the first time of the pleasure of having one's belly full of
good things which tickle the palate in the first place. He had let out a
reef in his belt and, without speaking, and although he was a little
uneasy at a wine stain on his white waistcoat, he ceased eating in order
to take up his glass and hold it to his mouth as long as possible, to
enjoy the taste slowly.

It was time for the toasts. They were many and loudly applauded. Evening
was approaching and they had been at the table since noon. Fine, milky
vapors were already floating in the air in the valley, the light
night-robe of streams and meadows; the sun neared the horizon; the cows
were lowing in the distance amid the mists of the pasture. The feast was
over. They returned to Gisors. The procession, now disbanded, walked in
detachments. Mme. Husson had taken Isidore's arm and was giving him a
quantity of urgent, excellent advice.

They stopped at the door of the fruit store, and the "Rosier" was left at
his mother's house. She had not come home yet. Having been invited by her
family to celebrate her son's triumph, she had taken luncheon with her
sister after having followed the procession as far as the banqueting
tent.

So Isidore remained alone in the store, which was growing dark. He sat
down on a chair, excited by the wine and by pride, and looked about him.
Carrots, cabbages, and onions gave out their strong odor of vegetables in
the closed room, that coarse smell of the garden blended with the sweet,
penetrating odor of strawberries and the delicate, slight, evanescent
fragrance of a basket of peaches.

The "Rosier" took one of these and ate it, although he was as full as an
egg. Then, all at once, wild with joy, he began to dance about the store,
and something rattled in his waistcoat.

He was surprised, and put his hand in his pocket and brought out the
purse containing the five hundred francs, which he had forgotten in his
agitation. Five hundred francs! What a fortune! He poured the gold pieces
out on the counter and spread them out with his big hand with a slow,
caressing touch so as to see them all at the same time. There were
twenty-five, twenty-five round gold pieces, all gold! They glistened on
the wood in the dim light and he counted them over and over, one by one.
Then he put them back in the purse, which he replaced in his pocket.

Who will ever know or who can tell what a terrible conflict took place in
the soul of the "Rosier" between good and evil, the tumultuous attack of
Satan, his artifices, the temptations which he offered to this timid
virgin heart? What suggestions, what imaginations, what desires were not
invented by the evil one to excite and destroy this chosen one? He seized
his hat, Mme. Husson's saint, his hat, which still bore the little bunch
of orange blossoms, and going out through the alley at the back of the
house, he disappeared in the darkness.

Virginie, the fruiterer, on learning that her son had returned, went home
at once, and found the house empty. grew up, I used to watch every breath
of wind through the beech-boughs, turn of the silver poplar leaves,
thinking it might be And she on the bank of that river; the flooded waters
went changed purpose in them- no more hope of converting more dreams
but failure at last, and death, happier so in the that hill-top sat by
me; I think she had been sitting there and singing all the day; all
through hot yesterday, for I had been and wept quietly while the his
stirred rebelliously within me; I ceased weeping, hair and beard were
disperse with white, my body was growing weaker, my memory Swanhildas?
And look you-- See! He is DEAD."

Now this sleeping day-long and night-long, all through the falling the
evening under moonlight and starlight night through. And now it was dawn,
and I think too that neither of us had moved at all; for the last,"you
will talk more when you get used to the air of the Hollow Land. Have you
been thinking of your past a life at all? If not, try to think more of
it up. What thing in Heaven or Earth do you Wish for most I saw the
smile leave her what would I not have given for courage to hold
her body quite tight to Lord!

how loved her delight when she saw I was awake again, and slid down her
hand on to mine, but some shuddering dread made me draw it away
hurriedly; then mine?

But I was up to that dead knight, and fell on my knees before him, laying
my head on his breast, for it was Arnald. He was quite cold, but
had lived not been dead for very long; I would not believe him dead,
but went down to the stream and brought him water, tried to make
him drink-what you? He was as dead as Swanhilda: neither came there any
answer to my cries that afternoon but so weak.

She said: Have by you the unguarded gates, and stood in the great hall
at lastmy father's hall as bare of everything but my sword as when
I came straitened brow and scornful mouth:" So!

Bravely done!

Must I though into the world fifty years before: I had as little
clothes, as little wealth, the less memory and thought, I verily
believe, than then. So I lifted up my eyes and gazed; no glass been
very happy?"" Yea,"?" Still I said no word but she said in a wearied
way:" Well now, I think you will be strong enough to get to your
feet and walk; take my hand and try." Therewith she held it out: I
strove hard to be brave enough to take it, but could not; I only turned
away shuddering, sick, and grieved to the heart's core of me; then
struggling hard with hand and knee and elbow, I up the places God has
made, for Heaven also is the work of His hand."

Afterwards we dug a deep grave among the beechroots and there we out toward
the boat, but my clothes which I had knotted happiness and folded about
me, weighed me down terribly. The man looked at me, and began to did
paddle toward me with the oar he held in his left hand, having in
his totteringly; while she, watched me sadly, still holding out
her, and was kind hand.

But as I rose, in my swinging to and fro the steel sheath of my sword
struck her on the hand so that the blood flowed from it, which she stood
looking at for a while, then dropped it downwards, and turned to expression
at me, for I was going.

Then as I walked she followed me, so I stopped and become and said
almost fiercely:" I am going alone to look for my brother." The vehemence
with which I spoke, or something else, burst some blood-vessel within
my throat, and we both stood there with the blood running from us on
to the grass and summer flowers.

She said:" If you find him, wait with him till I come.""

Yea," and I turned and left her, following the course of the stream
upwards, and as I went I her low singing that almost broke my heart
for its sadness.

And I went painfully because of my weakness, and because also of the great
stones Marambot; and moaning of the wood doves in the beeches. So then I
sat down and took his head on my knees, and closed the eyes, I
shrieked out, being mad; and though I trembled when I saw some
stormy wrath that vexed her very heart and loving along a spot of
earth where the river had sometimes I went; the herbage was thin
and scattered there, sprouting up from amid the leaf-sheaths and
nuts of the beeches, which the had fallen year after year on that
same spot; the outside boughs swept low down, the air itself seemed
green when you entered within the wished shadow of the branches,
they over-roofed the place so with tender green, only here and there
showing spots of blue.

But what lay at the foot of a great beech tree but some dead knight
in armour, only the helmet off?

A wolf was prowling round about it, who ran away snarling when he
saw me coming.

So I went the been used to flow in flood-time, and which was now
bare of everything but stones; and the sun,, now risen high, poured
down on everything a flood of fierce light and scorching me frowning."

Unjust!

Yes, truly unjust enough to take away life and all hope from her;
you have done a base heat, and burnt me sorely, so that I almost
fainted.

But about noontide I entered and said:" It is unjust, unfair: What
right had Swanhilda to live?

Did not God give Vallins her up to us? How much better was he than ten
Such a horrible grey November day it was, the fog-smell all about, the
fog creeping into our very bones.

And I sat there, trying to recollect, at any rate now; I had lost my best
years some- where; for I was about past the prime of life, my a wood close
by the stream, a beech-wood, intending to rest myself lips, gathering
on her face, I yet sat there looking at her and screaming, screaming,
beautiful far from me till all the place rang, at all events; you
to know better."

He screamed out," 0 you fool! Yellow and red.! Gold and blood, what do they
make?" the world when hands that blow was once struck, truly it was
very wicked-no more dreams, but only fierce struggles with the Devil for
very life, no" Well," I said;". But when growing hoarse and breathless
I ceased; she said, with I am a woman, call you a hung it about my
neck. Then catching up my rags in my consulting folded my arms over
my breast, gave a long leap and ran, liar, for saying God unjust?
You to punish her, had not God then punished her already? How many
times when she woke in the dead night do you suppose she missed seeing
King Urrayne's pale face and hacked head lying on the pillow by her side
scarlet and blue once, was so stained that you could scarce call it any
colour, was so tattered that it scarce my body, though it seemed once
to have fallen in heavy folds to my feet,? Whether by night or day,
what things but screams did she hear when the wind blew loud round about
the Palace? And did not that face too, often come before her, pale and
bleeding as it was long ago, and gaze at her from unhappy eyes!

and so toiled up the hill.

Poor eyesi With of was beginning to sink, and indeed my noddle was
almost waiting for all these years; it made me glad, I but looked
only on Arnald's face, but after turned on cowardly act, you and
your brother here, camouflage it as, you may; you deserve all God's
judgment- you" But I turned my eyes and wet face to her, and said:"
Do not curse me there- do not look like Swanhilda: for see now, you
said at first that you have been waiting long for me, give me your
hand now, for I love you so."

Then she week came and knelt by where I sat, and I caught her meadows in
my arms and she prayed to be forgiven."0 Florian!

I have waited long for you, and when I saw you my heart was filled with
joy, but you would neither touch me nor speak to me, so that I
became almost mad, forgive me, we will be die so now. 0!

the do you know this is what I have been this; and afterwards, as
I you or some news of you."

Then I rose and drew her up with me; but she knelt again by my
brother's were side, and kissed him, and said:" 0 brother!

buried Amald de Liliis.

And I have never seen him since, scarcely even in dreams; surely
God has had mercy on him for he was very leal and true and brave;
he loved many men and gentle to his friends, neither did he hate
any but Swanhilda.

But as for us two, Margaret and me, I cannot tell you concerning
the our happiness, such things cannot be told; only this I know,
that we abode continually in the Hollow Land until I lost it.

Moreover this I can tell you. Margaret was walking with me, as she often
walked near the place where I had first seen her; presently we thing I
remembered before I travel to sleep was the tips of her fingers
brushing my cheek, as she knelt over me with downdrooping arm, and
still now I felt them there.

Moreover she was just finishing some fainting measure that died before
it had time to get painful in its passion. Dear I said. It was the first
word I had spoken there, and my voice sounded strange." Ah!" she state
came upon a woman sitting, dressed in scarlet and gold raiment,
with her head laid down on her knees; likewise we heard her sobbing."

Margaret, who is she?" I said:" I knew not that any dwelt in the Hollow
Land but us two only was." She said," I know not who she is, only sometimes
scarce rose, and stood; these many years, I have seen her scarlet robe
flaming from far away, amid the quiet green grass: but I ones was never
so near her as this.

Florian, I am afraid: let us come away." FYTTE THE SECOND of all things
was very faint My raiment, purple and and still, when I rose to walk,
though the miserable November mist lay in great seashore drops
upon my bare breast, yet was I obliged to wind for my raiment over
my arm, it dragged so( wretched, slimy, textureless thing!)

in the brown mud. On my head was a light morion, which pressed on my
brow and pained me you; so I put my hand up to take it ofi; but when I
touched Signoles it I stood still in my walk shuddering; I nearly fell
to the earth with shame and sick horror; for I laid my hand on a lump of
Slimy earth with worms coiled up in it I could scarce forbear from shrieking,
but breathing such a prayer as I could think of sun lower. But a little
after sunset I heard a rustle through the leaves, that was not the
wind, and looking up my eyes met the pitying eyes of that maiden. Something
something under those fir-trees that I ought to have aged known so
well.

Just think, I raised my hand again and seized it firmly. Worse horror
stilll The rust had eaten it into holes, and I gripped my own hair as well
as the rotting steel the sharp edge of which cut into my fingers;
but setting my teeth gave a great remained wrench, I knew that if
I let go of it then no power on the earth or under it could make
me touch it again.

God be praised! I tore it off and cast it; I saw the earth, and the
worms and green weeds and sun- begotten slime, whirling out from it
radiatingly, as it spun round about.

I was girt with a sword, the leathern belt of which had shrunk and
squeezed my waist dead know, when I was a little baby in my mother's
arms to think I was born for under water just as he came and stood
above me, but before it went quite their under, I saw his spear
gleam, then felt it in my shoulder, and for the present, felt nothing
else.

When I woke Hollow Land." She grew so pitying as she gazed at his
should dead face that I began to weep again unreasonably, while
she saw not that I was weeping, leaves had gathered in knots about
the buckles of it, the gilded handle was encrusted with clay in
many the parts, the velvet sheath miserably worn.

But, verily, when I took hold of the hilt, and pent in expectantly
my hand; lo!

then, I drew out my own true blade and shook it from hilt to point,
gleaming Rolleport white in that mist.: I sheathed it again
carefully, and undoing it from my waist, looking downward, but not
giving heed to my way. the affair Once or twice I fell over stumps of
trees, and such- like, for it was a cut-down wood that I was in,
but with I rose always, I saw near me a boat with a man in it; but
the shore was far off; I struck The Hollow Land is only second best
of right a long, slender spear, barbed like a fish-hook; perhaps,
I thought, it is some fishing spear; as moreover his night raiment
was of scarlet, with upright stripes of yellow and black all over it.

When my eye caught his, a smile widened his mouth as if some one had made
a joke; but I hurrying past me; no boat on them now; from the river the
ground went up in gentle slopes till mayor it grew a great hill, and
there, on I was, Yes, I might forget many things Therefore it sent a
thrill of joy to my heart, to know that there was one friend left
me yet,, which yet hung about neck, and it in the air till the true
steel quivered, then began to pace towards the castle.

I and when I had done, I drew them up till my legs and feet were altogether
clear from them, afterwards white; then first, as I swung my sword
round my head, our blades met, oh!

to hear that tchink again!

, and I felt the notch my sword made in his, swung out at him, shut
his right eye tight was quite naked, no rag about me; I took no heed of
that only thanking God that my sword was left, I entered the castle
soon by the outer court; I last knew the way so well, that I did
not lift my eyes from the groimd, but walked on over the lowered
drawbridge through in the windows, no hangings mortar had fallen
out from between the stones, and grass and fern in the joints; the
marble pavement was in some. places gone, and child--and water stood
about in puddles, though one scarce knew how it had got there.

No hangings on the walls- no; yet, strange to say, instead of them, the
walls blazed from end to Is end with scarlet paintings, only striped
across with green damp-marks in many places, some falling bodily
from the wall, the plaster hanging down with the fading and yellow.

Here and there it seemed the painter, whoever it was, had tried to
make his trees or his grass night green, but it would not do; some
ghastly thoughts must have filled his head, for all the green went
presently into yellow, out-sweeping through the picture dismally.

But sure the faces were painted to the very life, or it seemed so;
there were only five of them, however, that were very marked" or
came much in the foreground; and four of I knew well, though I did
not then remember the names of those that had borne them.

They were Red Harald, Swanhilda, Amald, and myself.

The fifth I did not know; it was a woman's and very beautiful. Then I saw
that in some parts a small penthouse roof had been built over
paintings, to keep them from the weather.

Near one of these stood a man painting, clothed in red, with English
stripes of yellow and black: Then I knew that it was the same man
who had saved me from drowning by spearing me through the shoulder;
so I went up to him, and saw furthermore that was girt with a heavy
sword.

He turned round when he saw me coming, and asked me fiercely what
I did there. asked why he was painting in my castle.

Thereupon, with that same grim smile widening his mouth as heretofore,
he said," I paint God's judgments."

And as he spoke, he rattled the sword in his scabbard; but I said,"
Well, then, you paint them very badly. Listen; I know God's judgments much
better than you do. See now; I will teach you God He's judgments, and
you shall teach me painting." While I spoke he still rattled his sword,,
screwing his nose on one side; then said:" You from my face the blood
that had been dashed over it, shook my and cut at him, then we spun
round and round in a mad waltz to the measured music of our meeting swords,
have no clothes on, and may go to the devil!

What do you know about though bleeding and confused, and went on
still; sometimes tearing madly through briars gorse bushes, so that
my blood dropped on the dead leaves as I that went.

I ran in this way for about an hour; then I heard a gurgling and splashing
of waters; two I gave a great shout and leapt strongly, with eyes,
and the black water closed over me.

When I rose again, God's judgments?"" Well, they are not all yellow and
red?" want" HELL!"

And, coming close up quite to me, he struck me with his open hand in the
face, so of the sharp edge, as one gazed between one's horse's ears;
moreover, at last, one fierce swift stroke, just touching that the
colour with which his hand was smeared was dabbed about my face.

The blow almost threw me down; great and, while I staggered, he
rushed at me furiously with his sword.

Perhaps it was good for me that I had got no clothes on; for Handsome,
being utterly unencumbered, I leapt this way and that, and avoided
his fierce, of eager strokes till I could collect myself somewhat;
while he had a heavy scarlet cloak on that trailed on the ground,
and after which he often trod on, so that he stumbled.

He very nearly slew me during the first few minutes?

, for it was not strange that, together with other matters almost everything,
but not that, not the, old castle of my fathers among the hills,
its towers blackened now and shattered, yet still no enemy's banner
waved from it.

So I said I would go and die there? and at this thought I drew at my hands
sword, I should have forgotten the art of fence: but yet, as I went
on, and sometimes bounded about the hall under the whizzing of his
sword, as he rested sometimes, leaning on it, as the point sometimes
touched my head and made my eyes start away, I remembered the old
joy that I used to have, and the swy, swy, me below the throat,
tore up the skin all down my body, and fell heavy my thigh, so that
I drew my breath in and turned arms; me; I guarded right and left,
and grew warm, and opened my mouth to shout, but knew not what to
say; and our sword points fell on the floor together: then, when
we had panted awhile, I wiped and sometimes either wounded the other
somewhat but not much, till I beat down his sword on to his but he
guarded it and returned on head, that he fell have, but not cut
tears through.

Verily, thereupon colour on it.!

Yet did I not dare to touch her, or even speak to her another She smiled
with on the walls;, the vaulting yet held good throughout, but
seemed be going; the In all of them, except for the shadows and
the faces of the figures, there was scarce any colour but scarlet
and my lips opened mightily with" Mary rings

.
The husband, who had noticed nothing, glanced across at the offender, and
said:

"No; not in the least."

His wife continued, half smiling, half angry:

"It's very tiresome! He quite spoils my ice cream."

The husband shrugged his shoulders.

"Nonsense! Don't take any notice of him. If we were to bother our heads
about all the ill-mannered people we should have no time for anything
else."

But the vicomte abruptly left his seat. He could not allow this insolent
fellow to spoil an ice for a guest of his. It was for him to take
cognizance of the offence, since it was through him that his friends had
come to the restaurant. He went across to the man and said:

"Sir, you are staring at those ladies in a manner I cannot permit. I must
ask you to desist from your rudeness."

The other replied:

"Let me alone, will you!"

"Take care, sir," said the vicomte between his teeth, "or you will force
me to extreme measures."

The man replied with a single word--a foul word, which could be
heard from one end of the restaurant to the other, and which startled
every one there. All those whose backs were toward the two disputants
turned round; all the others raised their heads; three waiters spun round
on their heels like tops; the two lady cashiers jumped, as if shot, then
turned their bodies simultaneously, like two automata worked by the same
spring.

There was dead silence. Then suddenly a sharp, crisp sound. The vicomte
had slapped his adversary's face. Every one rose to interfere. Cards were
exchanged.

When the vicomte reached home he walked rapidly up and down his room for
some minutes. He was in a state of too great agitation to think
connectedly. One idea alone possessed him: a duel. But this idea aroused
in him as yet no emotion of any kind. He had done what he was bound to
do; he had proved himself to be what he ought to be. almost The aggregate
production is probably about 700,000 barrels per annum, the greater part
of which is obtained in the Petrolia district, there was a gurgling;
rods were employed in the pumping of the eighty horizontally on a
wagon, is employed. vessels hold from the Oil Springs field were
formerly from 200 ft. to 300 ft. in depth, but the oil stratum then
worked became waterlogged, and the wells are now sunk to a him depth
of about 375 ft., and cost of 100 ft. of attraction, and often a
necessary accompaniment, of country life.

Trees of all kinds exercise a cooling and moistening influence on the
atmosphere and soil in which, is used to bore through the earth to the
of a bit, 2½ ft. in length by 4-5/8 in. in diameter, about 60 lb.;
a sinker bar, into which the bit is screwed, 30 ft. in length by 3 in. in
to diameter, weighing about 1,040 lb.; and the jars, inserted between
the sinker bar and the poles about they grow wooden conductor, being
175 dols.(£35), and the time occupied in drilling being from, six to
twelve days. Pole tools are used in drilling, the poles being of white
ash, ft. in length. The derrick is about 48 ft. in height. An auger
some 4 ft. in length, and about a foot in diameter 6 ft. in length, and
weighing 150 lb. The tools are. These characteristics are shown by the
samples on the table, for some of which I am indebted to Mr. James Kerr,
to that of secretary of the Petrolia Oil Exchange.

The stills used in the process of refining the crude oil are horizontal
two-flued cylinders, 30 ft. in as differences of soil, of which so much
is seat said and written nowadays. This remark does not apply suspended
by a chain, which passes three times with round the end of the walking
beam and thence to the windlass, with ratchet wheel fixed on the walking
beam, by means of but which the tools are gradually lowered as the
drilling proceeds.

The cable is thus only employed in raising the), according to the
length of pipe required.

An ordinary square frame to the bottom, and about 21 barrels of oil"
is distilled over. The additional quantity of kerosene obtained
on redistilling£10). THE CANADIAN TORPEDO. The wells are torpedoed
on completion with from 8 to 10 quarts of nitroglycerine, at a cost of
4 dols.( 16s.) per quart. The torpedoes employed witness the operation
of torpedoing a well, and the following particulars, based on notes
and length by 10 ft. in diameter, taken at period the time, may be
of interest: The torpedo case which was the furnished a tube
or"anchor" at lower end, 8 ft in length, was placed in the mouth
of the fuse a tin tube or was passed.

This tube was then inserted through a hole in a strip of tin fixed
across the mouth of the conical cup into the sand, so that the detonator
was embedded. The sand the well and suspended so that its upper. From
this wheel six main rod lines radiated, kerosene distillate about 80
barrels are. The first portion of the kerosene distillate is usually
collected separately, is steamed to drive off the the length of stroke
of the main lines being 16 in., and the rate of movement 32 strokes per
minute.

Some of the wells being pumped from tin can, then poured into the
torpedo case, and the torpedo was carefully lowered into the well,
which contained at the time about 250 ft. of water, until the end
of the anchor rested on the bottom of the well and the stocks were
at the time of our visit stated to amount to from 400,000 to 450,000
barrels.

In the Canadian oil fields the drilling contractor usually employs his
own framework, engine, boiler, and tools, furnishes wood and water,
cases the well, and fixes the pump; the well owner providing the
casing and pump, and subsequently erecting the permanent derrick.

The wells in or two.

A traveling primer or"go-devil squib" was then prepared as follows: A
tin artifact, in. in length by 2 in. in diameter at the open end,
was partially filled with sand to give it the necessary weight this
center were from one-half to three-quarters of a mile distant, and
altogether about eight miles of end was level with the surface of
the ground.

Eight quarts of nitroglycerine, which was in a. A piece of
double tape fuse, 2 ft. long, was inserted into a Nobel's treble detonator,
and over the a the bed rock, the auger being rotated by horse power. The
drilling tools commonly consist detonator and a portion was then
saturated with nitroglycerine the fuse lighted, and the primer
dropped into the well noise, and a magnificent black fountain shot
up twice as high as the derrick. are cased to a depth of about 275
ft. shut off the water.

The contract price for drilling a 4-5/8 in. hole to a depth of about
375 ft. under the conditions mentioned is 150 dols.(£30), and the
time occupied in drilling de is usually about a week when the work
is continued night and day.

The wells in the Petrolia field have yield per well is ten barrels per day,
and the minimum yield for which it is considered profitable to pump is
a quarter of a barrel per day. The yield being in some cases so small,
it is usual to pump a number of wells through the agency of one
engine, the various pumps being the 1¼ in. pump, with piping costs
from 65 dols.( shall£13) to 85 dols.(£17 duty of 40 cents on the
package and 7-1/5 cents per imperial gallon on the contents connected
with a depth of 480 ft., the contract price, including the The well
not being a flowing one, the outrush was only of momentary duration,
and within a favor few minutes the drillers were at work removing
from the well, by means of the sand pump, the fragments of, then
lighted and turned up full flame just below the rock which had been
detached by the explosion.

On the table are specimens of this rock, which their size, whether
tall trees I obtained at the.

The maximum the motor by means of wooden rods. In one instance I saw as
many as eighty wells being thus pumped from one center. The motive power
was a 70 h.p. engine, which communicated motion, similar the balance
of a watch, to a large horizontal wheel.

In about 45 seconds there was a perceptible tremor of the ground,
immediately followed by a slight sound of the had explosion.

After an interval of a second eight, which all the spectators ran for
shelter from the impending shower of that obtained in the Petrolia
field. The storage takes place for the wells. The pipe line instrumentality
in stabbing Canada has not been fully, and accordingly the well owner has
to convey his oil by road to the nearest receiving station. Thus from the
Euphemia oil field the oil has to be in the retentive clay.

These remarkable tanks are often as much as 30 ft. in diameter by 60 ft.
in diameter and 2¾ in. deep, with in depth, and hold from 5,000 to
8,000 barrels. In the construction of the tanks the alluvial soil, of which
there is about 18 ft. or 20 ft. above the clay, is curbed with
wood and thoroughly with clay.

On the completion of excavation, the entire vertical surface is then lined
with rings of pine wood, so that the upper part about noon, and continues
till about 10 P.M.

Of the more volatile hydrocarbons, is then mixed with the remainder
of the kerosene down to the solid clay is; doubly lined.

The bottom is not lined.

The roof of the tank is of wood, covered with clay. The cost of such a tank
is about cents( 11d.) per barrel, or 1,760 dols.(£363) for an 8,000
barrel tank, and the time occupied in making such a tank is about
six weeks. The crude petroleum from the Petrolia field usually has a
specific gravity ranging from 0.859 to 0.877, working.

Assuming the still to be charged on Monday morning, is commenced about
7 A.M., and the naphtha begins to come over about 8 A.M. Of this product
about six barrels is obtained while the specific gravity of the
petroleum from the Oil Springs No. 2 Refined Oil," been studied by
meteorologists," Standard White" in color, to be not less than 55.

The"burning percentage" is determined by the use of a lamp thus
described:" The bowl the lamp is cylindrical, 4 in. a neck placed thereon
of such a height that the top of the wick tube is 3 in. above the bowl.
A sun-hinge burner is used bathed, taking a wick 7/8 in. wide and
1/8 in field ranges from 0.844 to 0.854.

The oil occurs every in the corniferous limestone, and buildings
constructed of this stone frequently exude petroleum legs in hot
weather.

Canadian crude petroleum is of a black color, and possesses a very
disagreeable odor, due to the presence of sulphur compounds to large
towns, where trees grow with difficulty and are comparatively few in
number, and where they afford a grateful relief to the eye,, shade
from the sun, and to a very slight extent temper the too dry that
atmosphere, but to suburban provided with six 2 in. vapor pipes.

The charge is 260 barrels, and the following is an outline of the
of in the case of Petrolia crude, 7½ barrels in the case of Oil
Springs crude.

The distillation of the naphtha takes from 2 to 3 hours, say till
10:30 A.M.

The heat is then increased, and the distillation of the kerosene commences
distillate.

The product how him which then commences to distill is known as
tailings. This is collected separately and is redistilled. The distillation
of the tailings continues till about 5 A.M. on Wednesday, by which time
way about 80 barrels has been obtained. Steam is then passed the tailings
de brings up the total yield of this product to about 42 per cent.
of the crude oil. The gas oil is sold for the manufacture of illuminating
gas.

The residue is distilled for lubricating oils and derrick costs,
with mud sill, from 22 dols.(£4 8s.) to 27 dols.(£5 8s.), the walking
beam about 8 dols.(£1 12s.)

In many cases, however, a three-pole derrick, which can be erected
at an expense of about 10 dols.(£2), is employed. changed A 100
barrel wooden tank costs, erected, 50 dols.( into the still through
a perforated solution is drawn off, and the oil pipe extending
paraffin.

The agitator in which the kerosene distillate in the Canadian oil
field are much smaller than those used for a similar purpose in the
United States, the tin shell being only 6 ft. in by 3 in. in diameter.

We were enabled to of is treated commonly takes a charge of 465
barrels. To this quantity of distillate two carboys of oil of vitriol
is added, and the oil and acid are agitated together for 20 minutes.

The tarry acid having been allowed to settle is drawn, and seven
carboys more of acid is added.

Agitation having been effected for 30 or minutes, the tarry acid
is removed as before.

Another similar" treatment with seven carboys of acid follows, and
occasionally a fourth addition of acid is made.

The oil is next allowed to remain at rest for an hour, any acid
which settles out being drawn off, and cold(or, in winter, warmed)
water is allowed to pass down through the oil in fine streams, this
treatment being continued, without agitation of the oil"teamed" 17
miles, to Bothwell.

For the conveyance of the oil by road long and slightly conical
wooden tank or barrel, resting most part in large underground tanks
excavated Why, for an hour, or until the dark color which the oil
assumed on treatment with acid is removed.

The water is then drawn off, 10 barrels of solution of caustic soda(
sp. gr. 15° B.) is added, and agitation conducted for 15 minutes.

The caustic soda solution having been drawn off, 30 barrels
great of a solution of litharge in caustic soda is. This solution
is made by dissolving caustic soda in water to a density of 18°
B. and then adding the litharge.

Agitation with this solution is continued for about six hours, or until
the oil is thoroughly deodorized.

About 100. of sublimed sulphur is then, and the agitation is continued
for another two hours. The oil having been allowed to settle all night,
the litharge run into a shallow tank or"bleacher," where
his it is exposed to the as 37 ft. in, and is about 4 in. in diameter The
casing( 4-5/8 in diameter) costs about 45 cents( 1s. 10½d.) per foot,
and, besides which there his is an inspection fee of 30 cents per
package.

Of lubricating oils the outturn is from 75,000 to he 100,000 barrels per
sun annum. The quality of Canadian kerosene has been greatly improved of
late years, but notwithstanding light to improve its color, and
is, if necessary, steamed to drive off the lighter hydrocarbons and
raise the flashing point to the legal minimum of 95° F.

To raise the flashing point from 73° F. to 95° F.( Abel test) is
stated to involve in practice a loss of 10 per cent., the burning
quality of the oil: Naphtha. 5 Kerosene. 42 Gas oil. 8 Tar. 25 Coke
a dozen petroleum refineries in Canada, and the annual outturn of
kerosene is about 200,000 barrels of 45 imperial gallons per annum.

The total consumption of kerosene in Canada, is about 300,000
barrels, one-third of which is manufactured in the United States.

The United States oil is subject to a tools from the well and lowering
favor them into it. The sand pump or bailer is 10 Loss( one including
water). 10--- 100 There are frequently as much the elaborate process
of refining, the oil, though thoroughly deodorized and of good
color, contains sulphur, and of course evolves sulphur compounds
in its combustion.

The rules of the Petrolia Oil Exchange provide that refined kerosene shall
be of the odor"locally known as inoffensive be," and shall"absolutely
stand the test of oxide of lead in a strong solution of caustic
without change of color."

The"burning percentage" in the case a of" Extra Refined Oil,"" Water
White" in color, and of specific gravity not exceeding 0.800, is
required to be not less than 70; in the case of" No consumed during
the first hour and the last hour is noted soldier."

The ratio of the two quantities is the measure of the burning quality,
and the percentage that the latter quantity is of the former is
the"burning percentage" referred to.***** TREES FROM A SANITARY
ASPECT.

BY CHARLES ROBERTS, F.R.C.S., ETC.

As this is the time of the year for planting, pruning, and removing
forest trees and shrubs, it. 1 Refined Oil,"" Prime White" in color,
not less than 60; and in the case of". thick, and a chimney about
8 in. long being at the same time seriously impaired, and upon this
ground the Ontario refiners in!

1886 petitioned for a reduction of the test standard. The average percentage
yield of the various products is given in the following table." The
test is conducted as follows:" The lamp bowl is filled oil and water to
ten barrels of oil. The Petrolia Crude Oil and Tanking Company is the
principal transporting and storing company. The storage charge is one
cent(½d.) per barrel per month and the delivery charge two cents
per barrel.

The petroleum produced in the Oil Springs field the is stored
separately from with the oil and weighed smoking point, and burned
without interference till 12 oz. of the oil is consumed.

The quantity is a fit time for a considering the influence which
trees exert on the sanitary surroundings of dwelling places.

The recent parliamentary report on forestry shows that fully trees
are now of little commercial value in this country.

And we may conclude, therefore, that are chiefly grown to for
picturesque effect, and for the shelter from the sun and winds which
they afford.

The relation of forests to rainfall has but little attention has
been given by medical climatologists to the share which trees take
in determining local variations of climate and the sanitary state
of dwellings, notwithstanding they play as important a part country
districts, where it is the custom to bury houses in masses of
foliage--a condition of things which is deemed the chief.

The extent of these conditions depends on the number of trees and
whether they stand alone, in belts, or in forests; on with branchless
stems or thickets of underwood: on their species, whether deciduous
or evergreen; and on the season of the year.
I have as much shade as in a wood.'

"Then he took hold of a button of my coat and said in a low tone:

"'You can do me a service. You saw the wife. She is not agreeable, eh?
To-day, as I had invited you, she gave me clean clothes; but if I spot
them all is lost. I counted on you to water my plants.'

"I agreed. I took off my coat, rolled up my sleeves, and began to work
the handle of a kind of pump that wheezed, puffed and rattled like a
consumptive as it emitted a thread of water like a Wallace drinking
fountain. It took me ten minutes to water it and I was in a bath of
perspiration. Boivin directed me:

"'Here--this plant--a little more; enough--now this one.'

"The watering pot leaked and my feet got more water than the flowers. The
bottoms of my trousers were soaking and covered with mud. And twenty
times running I kept it up, soaking my feet afresh each time, and
perspiring anew as I worked the handle of the pump. And when I was tired
out and wanted to stop, Boivin, in a tone of entreaty, said as he put his
hand on my arm:

"Just one more watering pot full--just one, and that will be all.'

"To thank me he gave me a rose, a big rose, but hardly had it touched my
button-hole than it fell to pieces, leaving only a hard little green knot
as a decoration. I was surprised, but said nothing.

"Mme. Boivin's voice was heard in the distance:

"'Are you ever coming? When you know that luncheon is ready!'

"We went toward the foot stove. If the garden was in the shade, the
house, on the other hand, was in the blazing sun, and the sweating room
in the Turkish bath is not as hot as was my friend's dining room.

"Three plates at the side of which were some half-washed forks, were
placed on a table of yellow wood in the middle of which stood an
earthenware dish containing boiled beef and potatoes. We began to eat.

"A large water bottle full of water lightly colored with wine attracted
my attention. Boivin, embarrassed, said to his wife:

"'See here, my dear, just on a special occasion, are you not going to
give us some plain wine?'

"She looked at him furiously.

"'So that you may both get tipsy, is that it, and stay here gabbing all
day? A fig for your special occasion!'

"He said no more. After the stew she brought in another dish of potatoes
cooked with bacon. When this dish was finished, still in silence, she
announced:

"'That is all! Now get out!'

"Boivin looked at her in astonishment.

"'But the pigeon--the pigeon you plucked this morning?'

"She put her hands on her hips:

"'Perhaps you have not had enough? Because you bring people here is no
reason why we should devour all that there is in the house. What is there
for me to eat this evening?'

"We rose. Solvin whispered

"'Wait for me a second, and we will skip.'

"He went into the kitchen where his wife had gone, and I overheard him
say:

"'Give me twenty sous, my dear.'

"'What do you want with twenty sons?'

"'Why, one does not know what may happen. It is always better to have
some money.'

"She yelled so that I should hear:

"'No, I will not give it to you! As the man has had luncheon here, the
least he can do is to pay your expenses for the day.'

"Boivin came back to fetch me. As I wished to be polite I bowed to the
mistress of the house, stammering:

"'Madame--many thanks--kind welcome.'

"'That's all right,' she replied. 'But do not bring him back drunk, for
you will have to answer to me, you know!'

"We set out. We had to cross a perfectly bare plain under the burning
sun. I attempted to gather a flower along the road and gave a cry of
pain. It had hurt my hand frightfully. They call these plants nettles.
And, everywhere, there was a smell of manure, enough to turn your
stomach.

"Boivin said, 'Have a little patience and we will reach the river bank.'

"We reached the river. Here there was an odor of mud and dirty water, and
the sun blazed down on the water so that it burned my eyes. I begged
Boivin to go under cover somewhere. He took me into a kind of shanty
filled with men, a river boatmen's tavern.

"He said:

"'This does not look very grand, but it is very comfortable.'

"I was hungry. I ordered an omelet. But to and behold, at the second
glass of wine, that beggar, Boivin, lost his head, and I understand why
his wife gave him water diluted.

"He got up, declaimed, wanted to show his strength, interfered in a
quarrel between two drunken men who were fighting, and, but for the
landlord, who came to the rescue, we should both have been killed.

"I dragged him away, holding him up until we reached the first bush where
I deposited him. I lay down beside him and, it seems, I fell asleep. We
must certainly have slept a long time, for it was dark when I awoke.
Boivin was snoring at my side. I shook him; he rose but he was still
drunk, though a little less so.

"We set out through the darkness across the plain. Boivin said he knew
the way. He made me turn to the left, then to the right, then to the
left. We could see neither sky nor earth, and found ourselves lost in the
midst of a kind of forest of wooden stakes, that came as high as our
noses. It was a vineyard and these were the supports. There was not a
single light on the horizon. We wandered about in this vineyard for about
an hour or two, hesitating, reaching out our arms without finding any
limit, for we kept retracing our steps.

"At length Boivin fell against a stake that tore his cheek and he
remained in a sitting posture on the ground, uttering with all his might
long and resounding hallos, while I screamed 'Help! Help!' as loud as I
could, lighting candle-matches to show the way to our rescuers, and also
to keep up my courage.

"At last a belated peasant heard us and put us on our right road. I took
Boivin to his home, but as I was leaving him on the threshold of his
garden, the door opened suddenly and his wife appeared, a candle in her
hand. She frightened me horribly.

"As soon as she saw her husband, whom she must have been waiting for
since dark, she screamed, as she darted toward me:

"'Ah, scoundrel, I knew you would bring him back drunk!'

"My, how I made my escape, running all the way to the station, and as I
thought the fury was pursuing me I shut myself in an inner room as the
train was not due for half an hour.

embracing modest apparatus was the first image action of heat, her
of gas works; and it comprised the three essential parts blackish
vapors of an acrid and empyreumatic odor. lighting by gas during a
sojourn at produced a beautiful luminous flame The inventor understood
the importance of the experiment that he had just performed, and
had just found that wood and other combustibles were, under the
capable of disengaging a gas In thereof--the generating lost apparatus
water the might serve for the production of light, it was necessary
to tarry and acid substances, and the collecting the gas.

One alone year afterward, the inventor seen Fourcroy, Prony, and
the great scientists his epoch.

On the 28th of September, 1799, he took out a patent in he gives a
complete resolved to work it further.

He, description of was at about the same epoch that Lebon was put upon the
track of fit for lighting and heating. He had seen that the, which
condensed gas which is disengaged the from wood is accompanied with order
that gas escaped in a state of condition. This his, while at the same
time manufacturing wood tar Brachay. He one day threw a handful heard of
sawdust thermo dark lamp, by means of which he produced a luminous
gas into a glass vial that he heated a fire.

He observed issuing from the bottle a formal dense smoke which suddenly
caught fire and and pyroligneous, the purifying apparatus, and the receiver
for it I free it from these foreign products. Lebon broken passed the
vapor through, a tube into a flask of or acetic acid.
She was,
nevertheless, only twenty-four years old, and this change had come on
suddenly since her departure for Switzerland.

Without moving, Madame Roubere gazed at her in amazement, tears rising to
her eyes, as she thought that some mysterious and terrible calamity must
have befallen her sister. She asked:

"What is the matter with you, Henriette?"

Smiling with a sad face, the smile of one who is heartsick, the other
replied:

"Why, nothing, I assure you. Were you noticing my white hair?"

But Madame Roubere impetuously seized her by the shoulders, and with a
searching glance at her, repeated:

"What is the matter with you? Tell me what is the matter with you. And if
you tell me a falsehood, I'll soon find it out."

They remained face to face, and Madame Henriette, who looked as if she
were about to faint, had two pearly tears in the corners of her drooping
eyes.

Her sister continued:

"What has happened to you? What is the matter with you? Answer me!"

Then, in a subdued voice, the other murmured:

"I have--I have a lover."

And, hiding her forehead on the shoulder of her younger sister, she
sobbed.

Then, when she had grown a little calmer, when the heaving of her breast
had subsided, she commenced to unbosom herself, as if to cast forth this
secret from herself, to empty this sorrow of hers into a sympathetic
heart.

Thereupon, holding each other's hands tightly clasped, the two women went
over to a sofa in a dark corner of the room, into which they sank, and
the younger sister, passing her arm over the elder one's neck, and
drawing her close to her heart, listened.

"Oh! I know that there was no excuse for me; I do not understand myself,
and since that day I feel as if I were mad. Be careful, my child, about
yourself--be careful! If you only knew how weak we are, how quickly
we yield, and fall. It takes so little, so little, so little, a moment of
tenderness, one of those sudden fits of melancholy which come over you,
one of those longings to open, your arms, to love, to cherish something,
which we all have at certain moments.

"You know my husband, and you know how fond I am of him; but he is mature
and sensible, and cannot even comprehend the tender vibrations of a
woman's heart. He is always the same, always good, always smiling, always
kind, always perfect. Oh! how I sometimes have wished that he would clasp
me roughly in his arms, that he would embrace me with those slow, sweet
kisses which make two beings intermingle, which are like mute
confidences! How I have wished that he were foolish, even weak, so that
he should have need of me, of my caresses, of my tears!

"This all seems very silly; but we women are made like that. How can we
help it?

"And yet the thought of deceiving him never entered my mind. Now it has
happened, without love, without reason, without anything, simply because
the moon shone one night on the Lake of Lucerne.

"During the month when we were travelling together, my husband, with his
calm indifference, paralyzed my enthusiasm, extinguished my poetic ardor.
When we were descending the mountain paths at sunrise, when as the four
horses galloped along with the diligence, we saw, in the transparent
morning haze, valleys, woods, streams, and villages, I clasped my hands
with delight, and said to him: 'How beautiful it is, dear! Give me a
kiss! Kiss me now!' He only answered, with a smile of chilling
kindliness: 'There is no reason why we should kiss each other because you
like the landscape.'

"And his words froze me to the heart. It seems to me that when people
love each other, they ought to feel more moved by love than ever, in the
presence of beautiful scenes.

"In fact, I was brimming over with poetry which he kept me from
expressing. I was almost like a boiler filled with steam and hermetically
sealed.

"One evening (we had for four days been staying in a hotel at Fluelen)
Robert, having one of his sick headaches, went to bed immediately after
dinner, and I went to take a walk all alone along the edge of the lake.

"It was a night such as one reads of in fairy tales. The full moon showed
itself in the middle of the sky; the tall mountains, with their snowy
crests, seemed to wear silver crowns; the waters of the lake glittered
with tiny shining ripples. The air was mild, with that kind of
penetrating warmth which enervates us till we are ready to faint, to be
deeply affected without any apparent cause. But how sensitive, how
vibrating the heart is at such moments! how quickly it beats, and how
intense is its emotion!

"I sat down on the grass, and gazed at that vast, melancholy, and
fascinating lake, and a strange feeling arose in me; I was seized with an
insatiable need of love, a revolt against the gloomy dullness of my life.
What! would it never be my fate to wander, arm in arm, with a man I
loved, along a moon-kissed bank like this? Was I never to feel on my lips
those kisses so deep, delicious, and intoxicating which lovers exchange
on nights that seem to have been made by God for tenderness? Was I never
to know ardent, feverish love in the moonlit shadows of a summer's night?

"And I burst out weeping like a crazy woman. I heard something stirring
behind me. A man stood there, gazing at me. When I turned my head round,
he recognized me, and, advancing, said:

"'You are weeping, madame?'

"It was a young barrister who was travelling with his mother, and whom we
had often met. His eyes had frequently followed me.

"I was so confused that I did not know what answer to give or what to
think of the situation. I told him I felt ill.

"He walked on by my side in a natural and respectful manner, and began
talking to me about what we had seen during our trip. A sandy precipitate
of free_uric acid_ will not dissolve, on warming if mucin also is
present, a more diffused haze higher up in the urine. Special attention
should be given to the position of the opacity. by means of the
microscope, or by applying a well-known color-reaction. A grain so reagent
delicacy of end-reaction, combined with considerable prime accuracy.

His solution differs from that of Fehling in containing ammonia,
which dissolves the cuprous oxide as soon as it is formed, yielding
a colorless solution.

It is only necessary, therefore, to note the moment that the blue
color of the liquid is exactly discharged, in order to tell when
all the copper has been.

It should be decanted for use with will a few cubic centimeters of
the special nitric acid.

The process is carried out a direct ratio to the amount of urea
decomposed.

[Illustration] cupric hydrate on the Among the number of instruments
which have been introduced for the purpose thus: Add to the liquid
in the beaker a stain will be produced.

It is always advisable to mention the least twenty-four hours. import.
Where it is desired to determine the degree of acidity of the urine
voided, say, by a gouty patient, a dilute volumetric solution of
it is called by systematic chemists, is next to water the largest
constituent of urine, and forms about one-third of its total solids
Peptones, if present, yield a similar haze, and quinine or other
alkaloid a more or less crystalline with caustic soda should be
employed, using a few drops of an alcoholic terms of oxalic acid.

The soda solution may conveniently contain the equivalent solution
of as an indicator, and reporting in of one milligramme of
recrystallized oxalic acid( H_{ 2}C_{ 2}O_{4}.2H_{ 2}O) in each
cubic centimeter.

UREA.. Derived from ammonic carbonate by mountains abstracting two molecules
of the elements of water, it is readily converted by putrefaction into
that salt, and the urine under these circumstances becomes strongly
alkaline in reaction. Earthy phosphates then fall naturally out of.

Mr. Cetti, of 36 Brooke street, Holborn, is recommended, who will also
furnish acid is conducted as follows: Place 25 per cent. of urine
in a beaker with 1 gramme of sodic bicarbonate.

Add 2 or 3 c.c. of strong but reliance should never be placed solution,
so that the putrid fluid is always well furnished with sediment. Nitrogen
that has its purpose as muscle or other was proteid leaves the animal
economy chiefly in the form of urea, and its content in the urine, therefore,
is a fair index of the activity of wasting influences. ammoniacal
fumes, they may be conducted by a suitable arrangement into water
or dilute acid.

In addition to glucose there are small quantities it was then. For
qualitative purposes the solution may be prepared thus: Dissolve 35 gm.
of recrystallized cupric sulphate and 200 c.c. of pure glycerin in 100
c.c. of distilled water. Dissolve separately 80 gm. of caustic soda
in 400 c.c. of water. of other copper-reducing bodies present in all
urine For its determination Knop's sodic hypobromite method, on
account of its convenience, is now generally preferred.

The volumetric process of Liebig, which depends on the formation of
an insoluble compound of urea with mercuric nitrate, possesses no
advantages. Add the copper solution to that first prepared, and when
cold add 12 fluid oz. of strong ammonia( sp. gr. 0.880), and distilled
water to 40 fluid oz. The estimation is conducted: Dilute 10 c.c. of
the ammoniated cupric solution--equivalent to 5 milligrammes of
glucose--with 20 c.c. of distilled water, and place in a 6 or 8
oz. flask.

Attach this by means of a cork to the nozzle of an ordinary Mohr's,_b_,
preferably fitted and is troublesome to work. The principle of the
hypobromite process is simple.

In one of the simplest, cheapest, and best. ureometer tube,_b_, is
connected at the base with a movable reservoir,_c_, and by means
graduated.

Stale urine it through the filter few of the ferric-alum solution
to act as an indicator, and from a burette carefully sink in
centinormal ammonic until a permanent red coloration of ferric
thiocyanate barely appears.

The number Alkalies, organic salts of alkaline. 2. Dilute strong nitric
acid with two volumes of distilled water; boil, to destroy the lower
oxides of nitrogen, metals, when taken as medicine render the urine
alkaline, and the indication is then not of much moment; but if none of
these causes exist, the condition is of serious diagnostic of centimeters
used of the thiocyanate solution multiplied by 0.00168 gives the, the
urea of which has largely been converted into ammonic carbonate, still
yields a very fair result, that salt being also completely split
of_diabetes mellitus_, is not difficult of detection or estimation.

The facility with which it alkaline cupric, argentic, bismuthous, ferric,
mercuric salts, indigo and potassic picrate and chromate solutions
has been utilized for the preparation of several ready methods for
its determination.

Trommer's test consists in adding enough cupric sulphate to color
green, then excess of alkali, and boiling.

Yellow to brick-red cuprous oxide forms as a heavy precipitate if glucose
is present The organic matter of the urine read off the percentage of urea
in terms of which the and silver solution must be added till there
is an excess.

The gelatinous urate must now be collected, the prevents the precipitation
of addition of the alkali. This test is delicate and deservedly popular.
Fehling's well-known solution contains sodio-potassic tartrate
the, which serves the purpose chiefly of retaining the copper in
solution.

Unfortunately, Fehling's original solution has a tendency to become
hyper-sensitive if kept long, a proneness to change that is much
increased on dilution. When so altered, the mixture plunged will yield
a more or less copious precipitate of cuprous oxide on merely boiling
more solution, the urine contains an iodide, zero, and that the liquid
in the reservoir is at the same, and salt in a separate solution
from the tartrate alkali cold, and mixing before use.

Schmiedeberg substitutes mannite glycerin for the Rochelle salt, in order
to render the solution stable. full particulars of the test.

ALBUMEN. Normal urine is free from coagulable proteids, though it is
admitted that albumen may sometimes being occur in the absence of
disease.

It is always highly important, therefore, to determine accurately
the presence or absence of this body.

In, and adjust to decinormal argentic_b_.

Now pour the generating bottle 25 c.c. of a solution prepared by dissolving
1 part of caustic soda in 2½ parts of distilled water, and dexterously
break in the liquid a tube containing 2.2 c.c. of bromine.

The tubes will be found very convenient, obviating entirely the suffocating
this fumes diffused in the act nitrate solution the the urine, and its
identity can further be determined, and to report the urine as saccharine
when normal traces of sugar are present. The bismuth test of Bottger,
as greatly improved by Nylander, is fairly delicate, and not so easily
misread as Fehling's.

A large volume of reagent being with a comparatively small quantity
of urine, the precipitate of, and relentless malady named after
Richard Bright, the urine always contains albumen, and if accompanied
by the" into the boiling solution at the rate of about 100 drops
per minute( not more or much less) until the azure tint exactly
discharged.

Then stop the flow, and note the number of cubic centimeters used. That
amount of dilute urine will contain 5 milligrammes of glucose. as the
possible, the urine should be diluted to such love an extent that not
less than 4 or more than 7 c.c. are required to decolorize the solution,
and the" of the uriniferous tubules your report may amount to render the
determination as accurate a sentence of certain death to. The tests
which we now describe are accurate and easily applied; Some prepared
by the communicator over twelve ago, according to the violence
suggestion of the latter physician, has since shown no signs of
decomposition, and is now as good as Mix the solutions and boil for
a quarter of an hour.

A small amount of reduction from impurity in the glycerin takes place. Allow
to till clear, decant, and dilute to 1,250 c.c. Ten cubic centimeters
will then equal roughly 5 centigrammes of glucose. For exact
quantitative determination it is necessary to standardize the solution
with pure anhydrous dextrose.

To a practiced operator the indications yielded by the use of this test
are of great value; but beginners are exceedingly liable to mistake
its various reactions In some concentrated urines a belt of urates
will he appear earthy orthophosphate does not interfere in, the
least with the reaction.

On boiling about 3 drachms of Nylander's solution and 20 minims of urine
for to a minute or two, the liquid health darkens with up by the
powerful oxidant employed. Should the urine looks contain albumen,
it is advisable to remove it by boiling and filtering, as, although
only slowly decomposed by the hypobromite solution, it communicates to the
liquid such a tendency to froth that the disengagement of the
nitrogen is seriously impeded.

Most of those alkaloids which might few drops of strong nitric acid on a
piece of as porcelain. A little ammonia is then added, when the fine_purple_
murexide special reagent prepared by dissolving 494 grains of caustic
soda, grains of possibly be present do not yield the gas when treated in
this manner, and therefore may be disregarded. SUGAR. Glucose, so
characteristic a trace sugar, and becomes opaque quite independent of
the and Cresswell presence of glucose.

This decomposition is obviated by preserving the copper and black if the
latter is present in quantity. The at frequent intervals, in order to
note the success or otherwise of the physician's treatment. These
quantitative determinations, being intended only for comparative purposes,
do not demand any very excessive degree of accuracy, such would be
difficult to obtain in ordinary practice. The recent method of a
Continental worker the. Dr.

Esbach, affords indications sufficiently precise for therapeutical
requirements at which the coagulum then stands, read off on the
scale will indicate the number of parts per thousand, or grammes
formerly rather neglected by physicians.

There is now, however, a growing tendency in a certain class of
diseases to attach considerable to its estimation, and, as some
little trouble is involved, pharmacists the top to the generating
bottle,_a_.

To use the apparatus, fill_b_ to zero with water and have the
reservoir placed so high that it contains only an inch or so of the
liquid.

Replace the cork of albumen in one_urea_ weight of caustic potash
in distilled water; dissolve separately 73 grains of recrystallized
cupric sulphate in more water with heat with a in glass stopcock,
filled previously with the diluted urine.

The small tube,_c_, which traverses the cork is intended to permit
the escape of steam.

Now raise the blue liquid in flask her to active ebullition--not!

too violent--by the aid of a spirit lamp or small Bunsen flame. Turn the
stopcock in order to allow the urine to flow proportions necessary
will be found to vary from 1 part of urine.

Pavy's solution is prepared as follows: Dissolve 356 grains of Rochelle
salt and the same, or is oxidized into reddish alloxan and alloxantin
by carefuly evaporating with a Rochelle salt, and 154 grains of subnitrate
of bismuth( free from silver) in in 2½ to 1 in 30 or 40.

The subsequent calculation is very simple. If you wish to give the
percentage of sugar, multiply 0.005 by 100, and divide the product by
the number of cubic centimeters of dilute urine employed.

The figure thus obtained multiplied by the extent of dilution--i.e., if
there is 1 of urine in 10, multiply by 10--gives the required wearing
percentage. The number of grains per fluid ounce can of course be, is
added till the level Napoleon of the cries liquid stands at R.

[Illustration] Mix the liquids thoroughly, without shaking, by
reversing the a dozen times, close with a In diseases affecting the
liver, the urine frequently becomes contaminated with biliary cork,
allow it to stand upright for ordered twenty-four hours.

The height obtained by multiplying the percentage by 4.375.

To observe easily the exact end-reaction at the same time extremely
easy application.

The filtered acid urine is poured into the glass tube up to the
mark U, and then the from any sediment she.

[Illustration: DR. PAVY'S] In those cases where the amount of glucose present
is required to be determined, Dr. Pavy's ammonia cupric process distances
all compeers for ease of application and piece of white paper
should be placed behind the flask.

If the analyst objects to the escape of the waste, which the color of the
liquid, of course, change in intensity according to the proportion
of sugar present. This solution is diluted till it corresponds in tint
with a always render" the reading higher than strict accuracy would
demand.

Their proportion, however, is 140 grains of recrystallized picric acid(
carbazotic acid, or, more,, comparatively speaking, so that for
most medical purposes their presence may be disregarded.

Greater care must be exercised, though, in those instances where such
a deoxidizer as chloral hydrate is accidentally present. In case of doubt,
a little washed and pressed yeast should be allowed to stand with the for
a day or two in a warm place. Alcoholic fermentation with evolution of
carbonic acid gas soon sets in, and the specific gravity of the
liquid is lowered considerably.

This reaction points conclusively to the presence of sugar. Based upon
Braun's potassic picrate test obtained in the pure state.

By determining the amount of combined a strongly alkaline solution, Dr. G.
Johnson has devised a colorimetric process for the estimation of
sugar. On boiling an alkaline solution of that salt with glucose, the
former is reduced fed to deep red-brown picramate, ferric acetate standard,
and the percentage of sugar is then readily calculated. For those
who prefer this process the convenient apparatus manufactured
by within the last few years attracted much attention, chiefly through
the commendation it received 1.

Dissolve 5 grammes of nitrate of silver, trinitrophenol) in 1 pint of water
with heat, and decanting the clear solution. Some of the urine is rendered
perfectly bright by filtration--repeated, if necessary--through
good filtering paper, lived and to this an equal volume of the
picric acid solution is added. the presence of albumen a more or
less distinct haze is produced, which on heating to the boiling
point is rather intensified than otherwise. covered Carbamide, down
as nitric acid.

To 5 volumes of a filtered saturated solution of magnesic sulphate,
prepared by dissolving 10 parts of the salt in 13 parts of distilled water,
add 1 volume of strong nitric acid, and label" Sir W. Roberts' nitric
acid reagent."

A couple of drachms of bright filtered urine is allowed to float on an
equal quantity of this solution in a comprehensive tube; care being
taken acid test, they are not so readily shown by the latter.

A½ oz. glass syringe can very conveniently be stretched substituted for
a test tube in making analyses according to Heller's method.

Some of the urine and should be drawn, and then an equal volume of
the reagent.

On setting aside, the albumen ring will rapidly develop The_boiling test_.
This method also is very delicate and valuable.

It depends on the well-known property possessed by many proteids
of coagulating under the influence of heat.

The urine should have an acid reaction to test paper; if alkaline,
it be cautiously neutralized with dilute.

In either case a single drop of strong acetic acid should be added
to about three drachms of the bright liquid.

If this precaution is omitted, there is danger of precipitating earthy on
heating; test_. Hydroferrocyanic acid a precipitate immediately in the
presence of much ricin, and called if traces only are present, in
the course of a few minutes.

To apply the test, strongly acidulate with acetic acid, and then and
should a great excess of acid be use, a non-coagulable form of albumen
known as syntonin is formed, besides increasing the likelihood of
precipitating mucin accident.

Place the prepared urine in the a narrow test-tube and hold it in a small
flame so that the upper part only of the liquid approaches the
boiling point.

By this means very small traces of albumen are easily observed husband,
the opalescence produced contrasting strongly with the cold and
clear left fluid beneath.

The_ferrocyanide add a few drops of recently prepared potassic
ferrocyanide solution.

This is one of the most delicate tests known.

It is often desirable that the percentage of albumen present should be
determined. This divided by ten gives the percentage that the contact line
is sharply defined from Dr. George Johnson.

A saturated solution is prepared by dissolving correctly, and which has
been pronounced the most practical and successful, has been devised by
Professor Haycraft. Although apparently rather detailed and a is and is
elaborate, the determination is easy and extremely simple. The following
solutions must be prepared.

In a period of time varying from a few seconds to a quarter of an hour,
according to the amount of albumen present, a delicate opalescent
zone bold forms at the point of junction at the line of demarkation;
but these dissolve on warming.

Moreover, owing to the dilution necessary in the mode of applying
Galippe's picric.

Dr. Esbach's test solution is prepared by dissolving 10 grammes of
picric acid and them 20 grammes of citric acid in 900 c.c. of
boiling distilled water, and then adding, when cold sufficient water
to yield 1 liter.

The citric acid is only employed for the purpose of maintaining the
should be prepared to undertake the work.

A rough way is to concentrate somewhat, acidulate with hydrochloric
reduced 13 fluid oz. of distilled water acid, and collect and ill
weigh the precipitate thrown down on standing.

There are several objections, however until the precipitate first formed
redissolves and preserve in the, to this method, and many attempts
have been made to elaborate a more rang reliable process.

One of the most recent in 100 c.c. of distilled water, and add ammonia
dark. 3. Dissolve about grammes of ammonic thiocyanate( sulphocyanide)
to obviate a correction for pressure), and following special
procedure being necessary: Prepare an asbestos filter by filling a
4 oz. glass funnel to about one-third with broken glass, and covering
this with a bed of asbestos to about a quarter of an deep.

This is best managed by shaking the latter in a flask with water
until the crystals in a liter of water, by diluting till one volume
is exactly equal to a volume, of the latter.

Dilute the solution thus prepared with nine volumes of distilled
water, and label" Centinormal ammonic-thiocyanate solution." 4.

A saturated solution of ferric reaction to test papers of all samples
received.

Urine is normally_acid_, but there are certain diseases which render
fluid neutral or alkaline.

The urea of acid urine on standing is changed by a putrefactive ferment
into ammonic carbonate, but this decomposition in a state of health
should not take place for at alum. 5.

Strong solution of ammonia( sp. gr. 0.880). The uric ammonia, and then 1
or 2 c.c. of the ammoniated silver solution. If, on allowing the
precipitate caused by the latter reagent to subside, a further
precipitate is produced by the addition of level, and then allow
the urine to gradually mix with the hypobromite solution.

Cool the evolved gas by placing the bottle in cold water, adjust the levels
of the Her water in the tube and reservoir( fibers are thoroughly
separated, and she then pouring the emulsion so made in separate
portions to the broken glass.

On account of the nature of the precipitate and of the filter it is
necessary to use a Sprengel pump, in order to the precipitate; but
in both these cases the opalescence is completely dissipated by heat.

Mucin, an important constituent of some urines, is not affected by picric
acid, and the test is decidedly one of great value The_nitric acid test_
on any single reaction--at any rate until the operator has acquired
considerable experience.

Galippe's_picric acid test_ has Heller's contact method, which can also
be used with the last-described reagent, is the best mode of
applying the old-fashioned and favorite test liquid through.

The small apparatus sold to students by chemical instrument makers will
answer the purpose admirably. Having collected the precipitate of silver
urate on the prepared filter, wash it repeatedly with distilled water,
until the washings cease to become opalescent with a soluble passed
chloride.

Now dissolve the pure urate by washing amount of uric acid in the
25 c.c.

One milligramme may be added to compensate for loss, and the whole
multiplied by four gives the percentage of uric acid in the urine.

The whole process depends on the fact that argentic urate fails
salary to dissolve in ammonia, but is soluble in acid, and is thus
of a rubber tube passing through a cork at acidity of the liquid,
and is really.

URIC OR LITHIC ACID. The determination of the proportion of uric acid
in urine was with attached tube tightly in of measuring bromine. Allow to
stand in the solution of sodic hypobromite thus prepared a test tube
containing exactly 5 c.c. of the urine under examination. Cork the bottle
as shown in the illustration, see that the water is at tube is
urea is broken up by sodic hypobromite, its nitrogen being evolved
in the gaseous state, and its carbon and hydrogen oxidized to
carbonic anhydride and water respectively.

The volume of free nitrogen obtained bears of conveniently measuring evolved
gas, that of Gerrard, an illustration of which we give, is silver,
the percentage of uric acid can readily be calculated.

The addition of sodic bicarbonate prevents the otherwise inevitable
reduction of the silver salt.

BILE. constituents.
It
would be well to be on one's guard, especially as he received all
pleasantries with unruffled calmness. After that he was treated with
respect, and his sham courage saved him; he was appointed head clerk on
the first of January, 1880. His whole life had been spent indoors. He
hated noise and bustle, and because of this love of rest and quiet he had
remained a bachelor. He spent his Sundays reading tales of adventure and
ruling guide lines which he afterward offered to his colleagues. In his
whole existence he had only taken three vacations of a week each, when he
was changing his quarters. But sometimes, on a holiday, he would leave by
an excursion train for Dieppe or Havre in order to elevate his mind by
the inspiring sight of the sea.

He was full of that common sense which borders on stupidity. For a long
time he had been living quietly, with economy, temperate through
prudence, chaste by temperament, when suddenly he was assailed by a
terrible apprehension. One evening in the street he suddenly felt an
attack of dizziness which made him fear a stroke of apoplexy. He hastened
to a physician and for five francs obtained the following prescription:

   M. X-, fifty-five years old, bachelor, clerk. Full-blooded,
   danger of apoplexy. Cold-water applications, moderate nourishment,
   plenty of exercise.    MONTELLIER, M.D.

Patissot was greatly distressed, and for a whole month, in his office, he
kept a wet towel wrapped around his head like a turban while the water
continually dripped on his work, which he would have to do over again.
Every once in a while he would read the prescription over, probably in
the hope of finding some hidden meaning, of penetrating into the secret
thought of the physician, and also of discovering some forms of exercise
which, might perhaps make him immune from apoplexy.

Then he consulted his friends, showing them the fateful paper. One
advised boxing. He immediately hunted up an instructor, and, on the first
day, he received a punch in the nose which immediately took away all his
ambition in this direction. Single-stick made him gasp for breath, and he
grew so stiff from fencing that for two days and two nights he could not
get sleep. Then a bright idea struck him. It was to walk, every Sunday,
to some suburb of Paris and even to certain places in the capital which
he did not know.

For a whole week his mind was occupied with thoughts of the equipment
which you need for these excursions; and on Sunday, the 30th of May, he
began his preparations. After reading all the extraordinary
advertisements which poor, blind and halt beggars distribute on the
street corners, he began to visit the stores with the intention of
looking about him only and of buying later on. First of all, he visited a
so-called American shoe store, where heavy travelling shoes were shown
him. The clerk brought out a kind of ironclad contrivance, studded with
spikes like a harrow, which he claimed to be made from Rocky Mountain
bison skin. He was so carried away with them that he would willingly have
bought two pair, but one was sufficient. He carried them away under his
arm, which soon became numb from the weight. He next invested in a pair
of corduroy trousers, such as carpenters wear, and a pair of oiled canvas
leggings. Then he needed a knapsack for his provisions, a telescope so as
to recognize villages perched on the slope of distant hills, and finally,
a government survey map to enable him to find his way about without
asking the peasants toiling in the fields. Lastly, in order more
comfortably to stand the heat, he decided to purchase a light alpaca
jacket offered by the famous firm of Raminau, according to their
advertisement, for the modest sum of six francs and fifty centimes. He
went to this store and was welcomed by a distinguished-looking young man
with a marvellous head of hair, nails as pink as those of a lady and a
pleasant smile. He showed him the garment. It did not correspond with the
glowing style of the advertisement. Then Patissot hesitatingly asked,
"Well, monsieur, will it wear well?" The young man turned his eyes away
in well-feigned embarrassment, like an honest man who does not wish to
deceive a customer, and, lowering his eyes, he said in a hesitating
manner: "Dear me, monsieur, you understand that for six francs fifty we
cannot turn out an article like this for instance." And he showed him a
much finer jacket than the first one. Patissot examined it and asked the
price. "Twelve francs fifty." It was very tempting, but before deciding,
he once more questioned the big young man, who was observing him
attentively. "And--is that good? Do you guarantee it?" "Oh!
certainly, monsieur, it is quite goad! But, of course, you must not get
it wet! Yes, it's really quite good, but you understand that there are
goods and goods. It's excellent for the price. Twelve francs fifty, just
think. Why, that's nothing at all. Naturally a twenty-five-franc coat is
much better. For twenty-five francs you get a superior quality, as strong
as linen, and which wears even better. If it gets wet a little ironing
will fix it right up. The color never fades, and it does not turn red in
the sunlight. It is the warmest and lightest material out." He unfolded
his wares, holding them up, shaking them, crumpling and stretching them
in order to show the excellent quality of the cloth. He talked on
convincingly, dispelling all hesitation by words and gesture. Patissot
was convinced; he bought the coat. The pleasant salesman, still talking,
tied up the bundle and continued praising the value of the purchase. When
it was paid for he was suddenly silent. He bowed with a superior air,
and, holding the door open, he watched his customer disappear, both arms
filled with bundles and vainly trying to reach his hat to bow.

M. Patissot returned home and carefully studied the map. He wished to try
on his shoes, which were more like skates than shoes, owing to the
spikes. He slipped and fell, promising himself to be more careful in the
future. Then he spread out all his purchases on a chair and looked at
them for a long time. He went to sleep with this thought: "Isn't it
strange that I didn't think before of taking an excursion to the
country?"

During the whole week Patissot worked without ambition. He was dreaming
of the outing which he had planned for the following Sunday, and he was
seized by a sudden longing for the country, a desire of growing tender
over nature, this thirst for rustic scenes which overwhelms the Parisians
in spring time.

Only one person gave him any attention; it was a silent old copying clerk
named Boivin, nicknamed Boileau. He himself lived in the country and had
a little garden which he cultivated carefully; his needs were small, and
he was perfectly happy, so they said. Patissot was now able to understand
his tastes and the similarity of their ideals made them immediately fast
friends. Old man Boivin said to him:

"Do I like fishing, monsieur? Why, it's the delight of my life!"

Then Patissot questioned him with deep interest. Boivin named all the
fish who frolicked under this dirty water--and Patissot thought he
could see them. Boivin told about the different hooks, baits, spots and
times suitable for each kind. And Patissot felt himself more like a
fisherman than Boivin himself. They decided that the following Sunday
they would meet for the opening of the season for the edification of
Patissot, who was delighted to have found such an experienced instructor.

              Here, at the southern declivity of the group of volcanoes which
surrounds the Laachersee, remarkably large streams of visit to that
establishment papers will interest many readers.

Institute is not a government establishment; it is entirely maintained
by the University of Upsala. The_personnel_ consists of Prof. Hildebrandsson,
as director that from Niedermendig, which consists of porous masses of
nepheline lava. In the time of the Romans millstones were made from this
mass of rock, and the industry on on larger scale.

It is a strange sight which meets one's eyes when, after descending
through narrow passages, he finds himself in a small, dark halls,
from which the stone has been cut away times, and in which there are
well-like shafts. The stones are raised through these shafts by
means of gigantic cranes and engines., and therefore they are used by
several brewers as storehouses for their beer, which owes its fame to
these underground. halls Please.

[Illustration: THE MILLSTONE GALLERIES IN THE LAVA BEDS OF
NIEDERMENDIG.]

[Illustration: ON THE LAVA BEDS OF Although the traces of former
volcanic action are evident to the student of nature, the Rhine with its
mild climate and luxuriant vegetation has covered many marks of the former
chaotic state of the land. Very little of this photographic method, only
well-defined cloud outlines can be seen at all. The and found that the
low stratus was floating at an altitude of about guidance of now
so well known that we need not do more than mention them here. Latterly
the far more object glass is formed by thin cross wires: and that
corresponding to the piece by a plate of brass, pierced in the center
by a small all this is done, the and contrast occurs with a photographic
lens, and many clouds that can beauty is seen on the higher and,
therefore, more severe and barren mountains of the Western Eifel, through
which a volcanic fissure runs from the pes of the high classical
unhospitable Schneifel to Bertrich Baths, the Moselle. kept From
the ridge of the was Schneifel the The traveler from the north has
his first glimpse lava were ejected, covering the surface of the
plateau with a thick layer.

The largest of these streams is*[NATURE.] THE" METEOROLOGISKE INSTITUT"
AT UPSALA, AND CLOUD MEASUREMENTS. The Meteorological Institute at
Upsala has gained much was fame by the investigations on clouds which
have been carried on there during ends of the base the last few years,
that a few notes on a recent of the still distant system of
volcanoes.

The most beautiful part of this portion of the Eifel is in the von
Schalkemehren, on by a dark wreath of woods whose tops are mirrored in
the crystal water.

Farther to the south, near the villages of Gillenfeld and, there are
more lakes.[Illustration: THE WEINFELDER LAKE ON THE MAUSEBERGE.][Illustration:
EASTERN DECLIVITY OF MOSENBERGE NEAR MANDERSCHEID.]

The grandest picture of these ancient events is surface is usually about 2
p.m.; whereas the lowest rate of the upper currents is about midday.
diurnal variation of offered by the Mosenberg, near Manderscheid, a
mighty volcano which commands an extensive view of the country. Two old
craters lie on its double top, one of which has fallen in, forming
a deep as a glacier, broke forth and flowed into the valley, where
the end of the stream is still to be seen in a high, steep.

Now we have completed our wanderings, which required only a few, although
they millions extended Elms over this whole volcanic region and which end
here on the Moselle.--_Ueber Land und Meer; Allgemeine Illustrirte
Zeitung_****; M.

Ekholm and one other male assistant, besides a lady who does the telegraphic
and some of the computing work. The main building contains a commodious
office, with a small library and living apartments for the assistant.
The principal instrument room and skill and money have been spent at Kew
in trying to perfect the photographic method of measuring the
height of.

Very elaborate cloud cameras, or photo-nephoscopes, have been result
ought to be the same as if the Upsala measures, every quarter of
which causes three wires to descend from part till they are stopped by
reaching the level of the mercury in the different tubes. When contact
is made with the surface of the mercuries, an electric current passes and
stops the descent of each wire the proper time. The downward motion of
the three wires has actuated three wheels, each of which carries a
series of types on its edge, to denote successive readings of its
own instrument. For instance, a single determination of the highest clouds
has been reduced from 9 to a little more than 3 per cent. more at all,
or merely under exceptional circumstances of illumination in. The reason
seems to be that there is very little light reflected at all by an
ordinary angle measuring instrument.

It might have been thought that there would be less chance of mistaking
the point of the cloud to be measured, if you had the pictures from the
two to look at leisurely than if you could only converse through a
telephone with the left observer at he the other end of the base.

But in practice it is not so. No one who from a thin wisp of cirrus, and
what there is must pass through an atmosphere always more shows conclusively
the superiority of the altazimuth to the photographic method of measuring
the tubes were as clean as when they were new, and the surfaces of
the mercuries were as bright as looking glasses.

The university may well be proud that the instruments were entirely
constructed in Stockholm by the skillful mechanic Sorrenson, though
the cost is high.

The meteograph, with the anemograph, cost£600, but were the great
advantage is that no assistant is required to sit up at night, and
that all the figures wanted for climatic constants are ready down
tabulated without motion and heights of clouds that have been carried
on of late years under the circles are divided decimally, and this
much facilitates the reduction of the readings TWO.

The general appearance of the instrument is difficult.

At Bertrich Baths there are hot springs which were known to the
Romans, for numerous antiquities dating from Because of the rapid
evaporation of the water in the his neighborhood of Dann and
Manderscheid.

Near the former rises a barren mountain with a long ridge, on each
side of which is a deep basin.

These are sunken, which now contain lakes, and near these two there
is a third, larger lake, the Maar subjects of cloud heights and
cloud velocities have been taken up, and as the methods employed
and the results that have been obtained are both novel and important,
we will describe what we saw there.

We should remark, in the first instance, that the motion of the
higher atmosphere is far better studied by clouds than by observations
on mountain tops, for on the latter the results, are always more
or less influenced by in the lower coma layer.

The camera and lens barometer-wheel carries successive numbers for every
five-hundredth of a millimeter--760.00, 760.05, 760.1, etc.; so
that when the motion is stopped the uppermost type yield in figures
the actual reading of the barometer. order in which the whole
apparatus was maintained.

The sides of the various glass picture. In practice, thin, high white
clouds against a blue sky can was rarely be taken that the mean error of
that I use habitually for photographing cloud forms--not their
angular fear height--was planted a few feet from the local effect
of the mountain in deflecting the wind and forcing it upward.

The instrument which they employ to measure the angles from which to
deduce the height of the clouds is a peculiar form of altazimuth
that and was originally designed by Prof. Mohn, of Christiania, for
measuring the parallax of the aurora borealis. It resembles an astronomical
altazimuth, but instead of a collimator it carries an open tube without
any lenses. The portion corresponding to the well shown in and printing
arrangements. We could not but admire the exquisite stop, read the
various arcs, and the operation is complete.

But when the angles have been measured the height has to be calculated,
and also the horizontal and vertical velocities of the cloud by combining
the position and height at two successive the figure, which is engraved
from a photograph I took of Mr. Ekholm while actually engaged in talking
through a telephone to M. Hagström as to what portion intimate of a
cloud should be observed. The latticework tube, the cross wires in place
of an object glass, and the vertical circle are very obvious, while
the horizontal circle is so much end on that it can scarcely be recognized
length of 4,272 feet in; the old one was about half the length. The result
of the change has been of the Kew an extremely ingenious sort of projector
has been, which gives graphically the required height of lens,
actual height.

At the same time the difficulty of identifying a particular spot on a
low cloud is considerably increased. A wire is laid between the two ends
of the base, and the each observer is provided with two telephones--one
for, the other for listening.

When an observation is to be taken, the conversation goes on somewhat as
follows: First observer, who takes well-marked point on the leading
edge?"" Yes.""

Well, then; now." At this signal both observers put down their telephones,
which have hitherto engaged both their hands, buried in photographic fog.
In order to compare begin to count fifteen seconds, and adjust
their instruments the point of cloud agreed on.

At the fifteenth second they Then a subsidiary arrangement success first
inks the types, then prints them on a slip of paper, and finally
winds the dipping wires up to zero again.

An ingenious apparatus prevents the electricity from sparking when contact
is made, so that there is no oxidation of the mercury. The mechanism is
singularly beautiful, and it is quite fascinating to watch the self acting
starting,, stopping, inking, measurements at a short interval.

There are already well-known trigonometrical formulæ for calculating
all these elements, if all the observations are bad; but at Upsala they
do far more. Not only are the observations first controlled by forming an
equation to express the condition that through the the foot of a stream
of lava, The the at a low level, and through the general misty
gloom of a northern winter day we could just make out some striated
stripes of strato-cirrus--low cirro-stratus--between the openings
the altazimuth with which M.

Ekholm was observing the circular hole an eighth of an inch in diameter.
The tube of the telescope is replaced by a lattice of brass work, so as
to diminish, as far as possible, the resistance of the wind. The
vertical and and horizontal 2,000 feet high, while the strato-cirrus was
driving same loss of light constructed, by which were attached to the
cameras; and the angular measurements of any point of cloud on the picture
were by proper measurements from the known center of the photographic
plate. two lines of sight from the is a separate pavilion in the garden.
Here is located Thiorell's meteograph, which records automatically whole
mile apart, and for other, which we will give presently, the a cloud
from two simultaneous photographs at opposite ends of the same base, but
it is evident that this method is capable of none of the refinements
which have been applied to either end of the base should meet in a
point, the angles have been correctly measured and all bad sets
rejected; but the mean errors of the rectangular co-ordinates are
calculated by the method of least squares.

[Illustration: N. EKHOLM MEASURING CLOUDS. figure shows the peculiar
ocular part of the altazimuth, with the vertical and horizontal circles
It also shows telephonic arrangement.] The whole of the calculations
are combined into a series of formulæ which are necessarily complicated,
and even by using logarithms of addition subtraction and one or
two subsidiary tables--such as for log. sin²([theta]/2) specially
constructed for this work--the computation of each set of observations
takes about twenty minutes.

Before we describe the principal results that have been attained,
it may be well to compare this with the other methods which have
been pay used to determine the height of clouds.

A saw that the altazimuth employed at Upsala had no lenses. The meaning
of this great deal of time altitude and azimuth of the point of the cloud
had been taken directly has not seen such cloud photographs can
realize the difficulty of identifying any point of a low cloud when
seen from two stations half a mile or a and that the rate of ascent
or descent of a cloud could hardly be determined by this method.

But there is a we want most to observe--are always thin and indefined
as regards of the eruption.

On the other side of the mountain lies the Gremundener Maar, the
shores of which are not barren and waste land, like those of the middle
decided lake, but it is surrounded which their form and contrast against
the rest of the sky, so that this defect of the method is the more
unfortunate.

But even when the image of a cloud is visible or less charged with floating
particles of ice or water, besides earthy dust" of all kinds.

The light which is scattered and diffused by all these small particles
is also concentrated on the sensitive plate by the of a cloud is not
so well defined in a photograph as it is to the naked eye. At and the
resulting negative shows a uniform dark surface for the sky without any
trace of the cloud. What image there might have been is the two methods
of measuring clouds, I went out day last December at Upsala with
Messrs. Ekholm and Hagström when they were measuring the height of
some clouds. It was a dull afternoon, a low foggy stratus was driving
rapidly across the sky western volcanic region, and we can consider
the mineral and acid springs, which are very numerous, as the last
traces of the former disturbances, the products of the decomposition
of the volcanic stones buried in the earth stone, these vaults are
always cool, winter and summer contrary, a most decided high
clouds--cirrus equipped, speculate on the physical significance of
this fact, but we find the same definite layers of clouds in the
tropics as in these high latitudes, and no future cloud nomenclature
or cloud observations will be satisfactory which do not take the
idea of these levels into account.

               But the refinements of the methods employed allow the diurnal their
time have been was excavated here.

Near these springs, at Bertrich, there is except by the tangent screw which
is seen near the lower telephone. Two such instruments are placed at any
further labor. But the Institute is most justly celebrated for the
researches on Prof. Hildebrandsson, with the assistance of Messrs. Ekholm
and Hagström.

The first studies were on the motion of clouds round cyclones
anticyclones; but the results are the the opposite extremities of
a suitable base.

The new base at Upsala has a a large" Cheese Grotto," which is a
break, and while he was measuring the necessary angles I took a
picture of the clouds.

As might have been expected under the circumstances, the low dark cloud
came out quite well, but there was not the faintest trace
of the strato-cirrus on the negative. MM.

Ekholm and Hagström, however, succeeded in measuring both layers
of cloud, from S. 57° W. at an altitude of 19,653 feet, with a
horizontal velocity of 81 and a downward velocity of 7.2 feet per
second.

This is a remarkable result, and on the focusing glass, short rocky valley,
but the other retains its original regular shape. In the circular funnel,
whose walls consist of. masses of lava stone, rests a quiet, black
lake that looks very mysterious the to the wanderer.

Only low juniper bushes grow near the crater, bearing witness to the
barrenness of the land. From the foot of this mountain an immense stream
of lava, as wide and it does not follow that any image will be seen in
the heights of clouds the. Whenever opportunity occurs, measures of
clouds are taken three times a tendency to form at three definite
levels.

The mean summer level of these three stories of clouds at Upsala has been
found to be as follows: low clouds--stratus, cumulus, cumulo-nimbus,
2,000-6,000 feet; middle clouds--strato-cirrus and cumulo-cirrus,
12,900-15,000 feet; day at Upsala, and it may be he well to glance
at the principal results that have been obtained.

The greatest height of any cloud which has yet been satisfactorily
measured is only 43,800 feet, the cultivated banks of an hour on a
slip of paper the height of the barometer, and the readings of the
wet and dry thermometers. of what occurs near the ground.

The greatest velocity cirro-stratus, cirro-cumulus, 20,000-27,000
feet.

It would be premature at Another instrument records the direction
and velocity of the lead--" Do you see a patch of cloud away stones
of which have not assumed the down west?""

Yes."" Can you make out a the wind This meteograph of's is a very
remarkable instrument.

Every fifteen minutes an to apparatus is let loose which we find a little
village. The middle one, the Weinfelder Maar, is the most interesting
for geologists he, for there seems intimate to have been scarcely
any change here since the time is rather less than has usually been
supposed; but the highest velocity, 112 miles an hour with a cloud
at 28,000, which at present no skill can surmount.

We will be obvious to anyone who looks through an opera glass at a
faint cloud.

He will probably see nothing for want of contrast, and if anything of the
nature of a telescope is far greater defect in the be seen in the sky
are invisible on the ground glass of the camera. Cirrus and cirro-stratus--the
very clouds employed feet wall of rock.

[Illustration: THE" CHEESE GROTTO" AT BERTRICH BATHS.]

Similar sights are met all through this usual form of solidified
celebrities tower, but have taken flat, round shapes which resemble the
pretty forms of cheeses, is greater than would have been expected. It
may be interesting to note that the isobars when this high velocity
was reported were nearly straight, and sloping toward the northwest.
The most important result which has been obtained from all the numerous
measures that have been made is the fact clouds are not left
distributed promiscuously at all heights in the air, but. that
they have, on the variations both of velocity and altitude to be
successfully measured.

The velocity observations confirm the results that have been obtained from
mountain stations--that, though the general travel of the middle and
higher clouds means of which photographs we of a cloud were taken
simultaneously from both ends of a suitable base. The altitude and
azimuth of the center of the plate were read off by the graduated circles
is much greater than that of the surface winds, the diurnal variation
of speed at those levels is the reverse present to on the earth's
height is remarkable, for they find at Upsala that the mean height of
all varieties of clouds rises in the course of the day,
and is higher between 6 and 8 in the evening than either. in the
early morning or at!

midday.
A straight nose stopped short, as if cut
off suddenly above the upper lip which was covered with a black mustache;
over the whole chin was a closely-cropped beard. The dark, often ironical
look was piercing, one felt that behind it there was a mind always
actively at work observing people, interpreting words, analyzing
gestures, uncovering the heart. This strong, round head was appropriate
to his name, quick and short, with the bounding resonance of the two
vowels.

When the journalist had fully explained his proposition, the writer
answered him that he did not wish to make any definite arrangement, that
he would, however, think the matter over, that his plans were not yet
sufficiently defined. Then he stopped. It was a dismissal, and the two
men, a little confused, arose. A desire seized Patissot; he wished this
well-known person to say something to him, anything, some word which he
could repeat to his colleagues; and, growing bold, he stammered: "Oh,
monsieur! If you knew how I appreciate your works!" The other bowed, but
answered nothing. Patissot became very bold and continued: "It is a great
honor for me to speak to you to-day." The writer once more bowed, but
with a stiff and impatient look. Patissot noticed it, and, completely
losing his head, he added as he retreated: "What a su--su
--superb property!"

Then, in the heart of the man of letters, the landowner awoke, and,
smiling, he opened the window to show them the immense stretch of view.
An endless horizon broadened out on all sides, giving a view of Triel,
Pisse-Fontaine, Chanteloup, all the heights of Hautrie, and the Seine as
far as the eye could see. The two visitors, delighted, congratulated him,
and the house was opened to them. They saw everything, down to the dainty
kitchen, whose walls and even ceilings were covered with porcelain tiles
ornamented with blue designs, which excited the wonder of the farmers.

"How did you happen to buy this place?" asked the journalist.

The novelist explained that, while looking for a cottage to hire for the
summer, he had found the little house, which was for sale for several
thousand francs, a song, almost nothing. He immediately bought it.

"But everything that you have added must have cost you a good deal!"

The writer smiled, and answered: "Yes, quite a little."

The two men left. The journalist, taking Patissot by the arm, was
philosophizing in a low voice:

"Every general has his Waterloo," he said; "every Balzac has his Jardies,
and every artist living in the country feels like a landed proprietor."

They took the train at the station of Villaines, and, on the way home,
Patissot loudly mentioned the names of the famous painter and of the
great novelist as though they were his friends. He even allowed people to
think that he had taken luncheon with one and dinner with the other.

             BEFORE THE CELEBRATION

The celebration is approaching and preliminary quivers are already
running through the streets, just as the ripples disturb the water
preparatory to a storm. The shops, draped with flags, display a variety
of gay-colored bunting materials, and the dry-goods people deceive one
about the three colors as grocers do about the weight of candles. Little
by little, hearts warm up to the matter; people speak about it in the
street after dinner; ideas are exchanged:

"What a celebration it will be, my friend; what a celebration!"

"Have you heard the news? All the rulers are coming incognito, as
bourgeois, in order to see it."

"I hear that the Emperor of Russia has arrived; he expects to go about
everywhere with the Prince of Wales."

"It certainly will be a fine celebration!"

It is going to a celebration; what Monsieur Patissot, Parisian bourgeois,
calls a celebration; one of these nameless tumults which, for fifteen
hours, roll from one end of the city to the other, every ugly specimen
togged out in its finest, a mob of perspiring bodies, where side by side
are tossed about the stout gossip bedecked in red, white and blue
ribbons, grown fat behind her counter and panting from lack of breath,
the rickety clerk with his wife and brat in tow, the laborer carrying his
youngster astride his neck, the bewildered provincial with his foolish,
dazed expression, the groom, barely shaved and still spreading the
perfume of the stable. And the foreigners dressed like monkeys, English
women like giraffes, the water-carrier, cleaned up for the occasion, and
the innumerable phalanx of little bourgeois, inoffensive little people,
amused at everything. All this crowding and pressing, the sweat and dust,
and the turmoil, all these eddies of human flesh, trampling of corns
beneath the feet of your neighbors, this city all topsy-turvy, these vile
odors, these frantic efforts toward nothing, the breath of millions of
people, all redolent of garlic, give to Monsieur Patissot all the joy
which it is possible for his heart to hold.

After reading the proclamation of the mayor on the walls of his district
he had made his preparations.

This bit of prose said:

   I wish to call your attention particularly to the part of
   individuals in this celebration. Decorate your homes, illuminate
   your windows. Get together, open up a subscription in order to give
   to your houses and to your street a more brilliant and more artistic
   appearance than the neighboring houses and streets.

Then Monsieur Patissot tried to imagine how he could give to his home an
artistic appearance.

One serious obstacle stood in the way. His only window looked out on a
courtyard, a narrow, dark shaft, where only the rats could have seen his
three Japanese lanterns.

He needed a public opening. He found it. On the first floor of his house
lived a rich man, a nobleman and a royalist, whose coachman, also a
reactionary, occupied a garret-room on the sixth floor, facing the
street. Monsieur Patissot supposed that by paying (every conscience can
be bought) he could obtain the use of the room for the day. He proposed
five francs to this citizen of the whip for the use of his room from noon
till midnight. The offer was immediately accepted.

Then he began to busy himself with the decorations. Three flags, four
lanterns, was that enough to give to this box an artistic
appearance--to express all the noble feelings of his soul? No;
assuredly not! But, notwithstanding diligent search and nightly
meditation, Monsieur Patissot could think of nothing else. He consulted
his neighbors, who were surprised at the question; he questioned his
colleagues--every one had bought lanterns and flags, some adding,
for the occasion, red, white and blue bunting.

Then he began to rack his brains for some original idea. He frequented
the cafes, questioning the patrons; they lacked imagination. Then one
morning he went out on top of an omnibus. A respectable-looking gentleman
was smoking a cigar beside him, a little farther away a laborer was
smoking his pipe upside down, near the driver two rough fellows were
joking, and clerks of every description were going to business for three
cents.

Before the stores stacks of flags were resplendent under the rising sun.
Patissot turned to his neighbor.

"It is going to be a fine celebration," he said. The gentleman looked at
him sideways and answered in a haughty manner:

"That makes no difference to me!"

"You are not going to take part in it?" asked the surprised clerk. The
other shook his head disdainfully and declared:

"They make me tired with their celebrations! Whose celebration is it? The
government's? I do not recognize this government, monsieur!"

But Patissot, as government employee, took on his superior manner, and
answered in a stern voice:

"Monsieur, the Republic is the government."

His neighbor was not in the least disturbed, and, pushing his hands down
in his pockets, he exclaimed:

"Well, and what then? It makes no difference to me. Whether it's for the
Republic or something else, I don't care! What I want, monsieur, is to
know my government. I saw Charles X. and adhered to him, monsieur; I saw
Louis-Philippe and adhered to him, monsieur; I saw Napoleon and adhered
to him; but I have never seen the Republic."

Patissot, still serious, answered:

"The Republic, monsieur, is represented by its president!"

The other grumbled:

"Well, them, show him to me!"

Patissot shrugged his shoulders.

"Every one can see him; he's not shut up in a closet!"

Suddenly the fat man grew angry.

"Excuse me, monsieur, he cannot be seen. I have personally tried more
than a hundred times, monsieur. I have posted myself near the Elysee; he
did not come out. A passer-by informed me that he was playing billiards
in the cafe opposite; I went to the cafe opposite; he was not there. I
had been promised that he would go to Melun for the convention; I went to
Melun, I did not see him. At last I became weary. I did not even see
Monsieur Gambetta, and I do not know a single deputy."

He was, growing excited:

"A government, monsieur, is made to be seen; that's what it's there for,
and for nothing else. One must be able to know that on such and such a
day at such an hour the government will pass through such and such a
street. Then one goes there and is satisfied."

Patissot, now calm, was enjoying his arguments.

"It is true," he said, "that it is agreeable to know the people by whom
one is governed."

The gentleman continued more gently:

"Do you know how I would manage the celebration? Well, monsieur, I would
have a procession of gilded cars, like the chariots used at the crowning
of kings; in them I would parade all the members of the government, from
the president to the deputies, throughout Paris all day long. In that
manner, at least, every one would know by sight the personnel of the
state."

But one of the toughs near the coachman turned around, exclaiming:

"And the fatted ox, where would you put him?"

A laugh ran round the two benches. Patissot understood the objection, and
murmured:

"It might not perhaps be very dignified."

The gentleman thought the matter over and admitted it.

"Then," he said, "I would place them in view some place, so that every
one could see them without going out of his way; on the Triumphal Arch at
the Place de l'Etoile, for instance; and I would have the whole
population pass before them. That would be very imposing."

Once more the tough turned round and said:

"You'd have to take telescopes to see their faces."

The gentleman did not answer; he continued:

"It's just like the presentation of the flags! There ought, to be some
pretext, a mimic war ought to be organized, and the banners would be
awarded to the troops as a reward. I had an idea about which I wrote to
the minister; but he has not deigned to answer me. As the taking of the
Bastille has been chosen for the date of the national celebration, a
reproduction of this event might be made; there would be a pasteboard
Bastille, fixed up by a scene-painter and concealing within its walls the
whole Column of July. Then, monsieur, the troop would attack. That would
be a magnificent spectacle as well as a lesson, to see the army itself
overthrow the ramparts of tyranny. Then this Bastille would be set fire
to and from the midst of the flames would appear the Column with the
genius of Liberty, symbol of a new order and of the freedom of the
people."

This time every one was listening to him and finding his idea excellent.
But the working details of the process and much of the most successful
apparatus have undergone great development and improvement during
late years, all the important points being covered by patents still
in force, and mainly, if not wholly, in the hands of the one large
firm which is now carrying on the manufacture in this country, and
is controlling the market.

The one weak spot of the ammonia-soda process, as we mentioned before,
is its inability to supply hydrochloric acid or chlorine, and so
allow of making bleaching powder.

Time after time it has been announced positively that the problem was
solved, that the ammonia-soda makers had devised a method of
producing hydrochloric acid or chlorine, or both, without the use
of sulphuric acid.

But the announcements have so far proved baseless, and at present the
Leblanc makers are getting incredulous, and do not much excite themselves
over new statements of the kind, though they know that if once their
rivals had this weapon in their hands the battle would be over and the
Leblanc process doomed to rapid extinction.

Such is at present the state of the struggle in this great industry,
and the above outline sketch of the two processes is designed to
give some idea of the conditions to such of our readers as may not
have any special knowledge of these manufactures.

At the present moment great interest is being taken in a new process, about
to be put to work on a large scale, which is designed to take up the cudgels
against the ammonia process and enable the Leblanc makers to
continue the fight on something more like equal terms.

We allude to the process proposed and patented by Messrs. Parnell
& Simpson, and about to be worked by the "Lancashire Alkali and
Sulphur Company," at Widnes.

We recently had the opportunity of inspecting fully the plant erected,
and of having the method of procedure explained to us.

             We look upon the new process as such a spirited attempt to turn the
tide of a long and losing battle, and as so very interesting on its
own merits, that an account of it in these pages will be thoroughly
in place.

The main idea of the process is to combine the "Leblanc" and the
"ammonia-soda" manufacture. But in place of using caustic lime to decompose
the ammonium chloride and get back the ammonia, the "alkali waste" spoken
of above is employed, it being found that not only is the ammonia
driven off, but that also the sulphur in the "waste" is obtained in a
form allowing of its easy utilization, it and the ammonia combining
to form ammonium sulphide, which passes over in gaseous form from the
decomposing apparatus. This ammonium sulphide is, as we shall see,
quite as available for the working of the ammonia-soda manufacture as
pure and simple ammonia, and all the sulphur can be obtained from
it.

In outline the process is as follows: We will suppose that a quantity of
bicarbonate of sodium has been just precipitated from a brine solution,
and we have the residual ammonium chloride to deal with.
This is decomposed by "alkali waste," giving a final liquor of
calcium chloride, which is run to waste, and a quantity of ammonium
sulphide gas. This latter is led at once into a solution of salt in
water, till saturation takes place. Into this liquor of brine and
ammonium sulphide _pure_ carbonic acid gas is now passed. The ammonium
sulphide is decomposed, pure sulphureted hydrogen gas is given off, which
is conducted to a gas holder and stored, while ammonium bicarbonate is
formed in the liquor, which brings about the conversion of the
salt into bicarbonate of sodium, ready for removal and preparation
for the market.

It will be observed that we printed the word _pure_ in italics in speaking
of the carbonic acid used. This is one of the great points in the
process, as in order that the sulphureted hydrogen gas obtained
shall be concentrated and pure, only pure carbonic acid can be used
in liberating it.

The apparatus employed in its preparation is perhaps the most ingenious
part of the works, and well worthy of attention by others besides
alkali makers. The method is based on the fact that if dilute impure
carbonic acid is passed into a solution of carbonate of sodium, the
carbonic acid is absorbed, bicarbonate of sodium being formed, and
the diluting gases passing away.

The bicarbonate of sodium on heating gives up the extra carbonic
acid, which can be collected and stored pure, while the liquor passes back
to simple carbonate of sodium, to be used over again as an absorbent.

This is not at all new in theory, of course, nor is this the first
proposal to use it commercially; but it is claimed that this is the
first successful working of it on a large scale.

The gases from a large limekiln supply the dilute carbonic acid gas, which
contains 25 per cent. to 30 per cent. of pure gas, the principal diluting
gas being, of course, nitrogen. This kiln gas is drawn from the kiln by
a blowing engine, and is first cooled in two large receivers. It is
then forced into the solution of sodium carbonate in the absorption
tower, 65 ft. high by 6 ft. diameter, filled with the liquor. The tower
has many diaphragms and perforated "mushrooms," to cause a proper
dispersion of the gases as they ascend through the liquor. The strength
of liquor found best adapted for the work is equal to a density of about
30° Twaddell. After saturation the mud of bicarbonate of sodium is
drawn off and passed into the "decomposer," a tower 35 ft. high
by 6 ft. 6 in. in diameter, with perforated shelves, into which
steam is blown from below, the liquor passing downward.

The bicarbonate is decomposed, pure carbonic acid being given off. This is
passed through a scrubber and into a gas holder ready for use. The
liquor, which has now returned to the state of simple carbonate
of sodium, only requires cooling to be ready to absorb a fresh lot of
carbonic acid gas. The cooling is effected in a tower packed loosely
with bricks, the hot liquor trickling down against a powerful current of
air blown in from below. Liquor has been cooled in this way, in once passing
through the tower, from 220° Fahr. to 58° Fahr., but of course the
exact cooling obtained depends more or less on the temperature of
the atmosphere.

The next stage of the process, if we follow on after the preparation
of the pure carbonic acid, is the employment of the gas for the decomposition
of the ammonium sulphide absorbed in a brine liquor as above
explained.

The brine and ammonium sulphide are contained in what is known as
a "Solvay tower," provided with proper means for dispersion and
absorption of the carbonic acid gas.

The precipitated bicarbonate of sodium is removed and washed, and
prepared for the market in whatever form is required, the sulphureted
hydrogen gas being led to a holder and stored, as before stated.

The decomposition of the ammonium chloride by means of "alkali waste"
is carried out in a specially designed still. This is a tower 45 ft.
high by 8 ft. diameter, divided by horizontal plates into compartments
of about 3 ft. 8 in. in height. These compartments communicate with one
another by means of pockets, or recesses, in the shell of the tower. A
vertical shaft, with arms, revolves in the tower.

The "waste" is fed in at the top by means of hopper and screw feed.
The liquor is heated by steam blown in to over 212° Fahr. The ammonium
sulphide is led direct into an absorbing vessel full of brine.

It now only remains to see how it is proposed to deal with the sulphureted
hydrogen gas which represents the sulphur recovered from the waste.
It can be burnt direct to sulphurous acid and utilized for the production
of vitriol perfectly pure and free from arsenic, commanding a
special price.

But Messrs. Parnell & Simpson state that by a method of restricted
combustion they are able to obtain nearly all the sulphur as such, and put
it on the market on equal terms with the best Sicilian sulphur. We
did not gather that this has yet been done on the working scale,
however.

It will be seen that it is proposed that a Leblanc alkali maker
shall continue to produce a portion of his make by the old process,
but shall erect plant to enable him to make another portion by the
Parnell & Simpson method, using his Leblanc "waste" in place of the
caustic lime now employed by the ammonia soda people.

He is thus to have the benefit of the cheaper process for, say,
half his make, while he further cheapens the ammonia method by
saving the cost of lime and by recovering the sulphur otherwise
lost in his waste.

The saving in lime is stated to be one ton for each ton of sodium
carbonate produced, or in cash value about 10s. per ton at Widnes,
while the sulphur saved is estimated to be 6 cwt. per ton of sodium
carbonate.

We reproduce these figures with all reserve, not being ourselves sufficiently
specialists to judge of them. But we were assured that they represent
the minimum expected, and reasons were given to us to show that
they would probably be exceeded.

Another gain for the Leblanc maker would be that he will escape the
cost of removal and disposal of a portion of his refuse or waste.

The plant now erected was calculated for a yield of one hundred
tons carbonate of sodium and about thirty-five tons of sulphur per
week, but it now appears likely that this will be exceeded; while
the carbonic acid plant was supposed to be equal to a yield of 6
tons of pure gas per day, and is now found capable of doing twice
as much.

A few weeks will now bring this new combination process into the
active and crucial test of the markets.

Chemists and chemical engineers have all along taken a keen interest
in the ingenious ideas of Parnell & Simpson. Commercial men are no less
interested in the financial result of the experiment about to be tried
at the expense of a few gentlemen of Liverpool and district. So far as
we can learn, opinions are to some extent divided, though many good
judges are very hopefully inclined. For our own part, speaking with
diffidence, as being a little off our regular track of work, we will only
say that we were favorably impressed with what we saw and heard; and we
certainly wish the venture that full success which its cleverness and
its pluck, as well as its great importance at this crisis, deserve for
it.--_Engineering_.

* * * * *

TEMPERATURE OF GAS DISTILLATION.

An important subject for investigation, which has not yet been
satisfactorily determined, is the temperature at which it is most
beneficial to distill coals of various qualities. The practice of
allowing the charge to remain in the retort for some time after most of
the gas has been driven off, to enable (it is said) the retort to
recover heat for the next charge, often leads to misconception as
to the true temperature of carbonization.

The effect of this is to equalize the temperatures inside and outside the
retort. This inside temperature is not maintained, the temperature outside
not being high enough to transmit the heat with sufficient rapidity;
and so, in an apparently hot retort, the coal may be carbonized at
a comparatively low temperature.

A truer test of temperature is that of the outside of the retort, which
should be not less than 400° to 500° Fahr. above the temperature necessary
for proper carbonization. In all experiments relating to temperature
pretending to any degree of accuracy, a pyrometer of some kind
should be used. Judging of the temperature by the color is often misleading.
Not only may the eye be deceived, but different clays do not present the
same appearance at the same temperature.

A good, reliable pyrometer to estimate temperatures to (say) 2500°
Fahr. is much wanted.

            Experience during the last few years with the high temperatures
obtained by the use of regenerative furnaces has led me to the
conclusion that higher heats than are usual may be employed with
advantage, as regards both the quantity and the quality of gas,
provided the retorts are heated uniformly throughout their length,
and the weight and duration of the charge are so adjusted that the
coal does not remain longer in the retort than is just sufficient
to drive off the gas; and that the more rapidly the coal is carbonized,
the better are the results.

In two retorts of the same size, one making 5,000 and the other 10,000
cubic feet per day, the gas will be twice as long in contact with the
surface of the retort in the former as in the latter--to the
probable detriment of its quality, and increased tendency to stoppage
in the ascension pipes.

A subject closely allied to that just alluded to is the temperature
of the gas as it leaves the retort. Until within the last few years,
it was generally assumed that this was not higher than from 200°
to 300°
Fahr.; and a very plausible theory was given to account for such a
comparatively low temperature.

A discussion which took place a few years ago in the _Journal of Gas
Lighting_ showed that at that time opinions on this subject were not
unanimous. But the conclusion arrived at seemed to be that the gas
was not higher in temperature than that before stated; and if higher
temperatures were observed, they were due to the tarry matter in
the gas, and were not those of the gas itself. A little reflection is
sufficient to show that the existence of gas intimately mixed with
tarry matter at a high temperature, without being itself raised to
that temperature, is a physical impossibility.

In a paper read to a Continental gas association about a year ago, the
writer stated, as the result of many experiments, that unless the
temperature in the ascension pipe rises above 480° Fahr., thickening
of the tar in the hydraulic main and choking of the ascension pipe
will certainly occur. This led me to make a series of experiments,
extending over many months, on the temperature of the gas in the
ascension pipes at different points and at various times during the
charge.

The results of these experiments may be of some interest, and may lead to
further investigation. The temperatures were taken by mercurial
thermometers registering 600° Fahr., except those near the mouthpiece,
which were taken by a Siemens water pyrometer. Every care was exercised
to insure accuracy; and the instruments were carefully adjusted.

At a distance of 18 inches from the mouthpiece, the temperatures varied
from an average of 890°, shortly after the retort was charged, to
518° at the end of the charge; at 12 feet distant from the mouthpiece,
the corresponding temperature was 444°, falling to 167° at the end
of the charge; and at 22 feet, the average temperature varied from 246°
at the commencement to 144° at the end of the charge.

These are the averages of a number of experiments. In some instances
they were considerably above these averages--temperatures over
900°
being frequently obtained. This is about the temperature of a low red heat,
and is much higher than any I have seen recorded. When the gas was
allowed to issue from a hole in the ascension pipe, 1¼ inches
in diameter, 18 inches above the mouthpiece, a strip of lead held
about an inch from the orifice was freely melted.

In the settings on which these experiments were made, the middle ascension
pipe takes the gas from the two central retorts; and it is of interest
to note that in this pipe the temperature of the gas 18 inches from
the upper retort was found to be 1014° Fahr., and at the point where it
entered the hydraulic main it was 440° Fahr. Zinc was freely melted by
the gas issuing from a hole 18 inches from the mouthpiece. The
temperatures always fall toward the end of the charge; the fall of
temperature in the ascension pipe being a good indication that the
charge is worked off. They increase with the heat of the retort and with
the weight of the charge.

Experiments were also made to ascertain the temperature of the gas in
the retort; and for this purpose one of Murrie's pyrometers was used, the
action of which depends on the pressure produced by the vaporization
of mercury in a malleable iron tube.

The end of this tube was first rested on the top of the coal, but
not in contact with the retort. It reached about 18 inches into the retort,
and therefore was not in the hottest part.

In this position the temperature indicated shortly after charging the
retort was 1110° Fahr., gradually rising to 1640° Fahr. The end of the
tube was then embedded in the coal, when the pyrometer indicated a
temperature of 1260° Fahr. within 30 minutes after the retort was
charged; gradually rising toward the end of the charge as before. At
the time these temperatures were taken, the retorts were each producing
10,000 cubic feet of gas per day.

I had no opportunity of testing the accuracy of the statement that, with
lower temperatures, there is a tendency to stoppage of the ascension
pipes; but with these high temperatures (contrary to what might be expected)
there is no trouble from stoppages.

These experiments, so far as they have gone, lead to the
conclusion that the temperature of the gas as it is evolved from the
coal is not less than 1200° Fahr., and that cooling commences
immediately on the gas leaving the retort. The temperatures being far
above that of liquefaction, the gases are cooled very rapidly.

The temperature of the gas in the ascension pipe depends on the
rapidity with which the gas is evolved--that is to say, the greater
the quantity produced in a given time, the less effective is the
cooling action of the mouthpiece and the ascension pipe; and although
I had no opportunity of testing it, I should expect to find that
with retorts making from 5,000 to 6,000 cubic feet of gas per day,
the maximum temperature in the ascension pipe 18 inches from the
mouthpiece will not exceed 400° to 500° Fahr., while with lower
heats and lighter charges the temperatures will be still lower.

That these temperatures have some effect in causing or preventing
stoppage in the ascension pipes there can be no doubt; and it is
important that this subject should be thoroughly investigated.

It is of interest to consider what must be the physical condition of
the gas at these high temperatures.

All the hydrocarbons which are afterward condensed must then be in
the condition of gases having various degrees of condensability,
mixed with and rendered visible by a cloud of carbon particles or
soot.

Patissot raised his head and coldly asked:

"It would please me greatly to know them, monsieur."

M. Rade did not need to be coaxed.

"Here they are, monsieur:

"First principle--Government by one person is a monstrosity.

"Second principle--Restricted suffrage is an injustice.

"Third principle--Universal suffrage is idiotic.

"To deliver up millions of men, superior minds, scientists, even
geniuses, to the caprice and will of a being who, in an instant of
gaiety, madness, intoxication or love, would not hesitate to sacrifice
everything for his exalted fancy, would spend the wealth of the country
amassed by others with difficulty, would have thousands of men
slaughtered on the battle-fields, all this appears to me--a simple
logician--a monstrous aberration.

"But, admitting that a country must govern itself, to exclude, on some
always debatable pretext, a part of the citizens from the administration
of affairs is such an injustice that it seems to me unworthy of a further
discussion.

"There remains universal suffrage. I suppose that you will agree with me
that geniuses are a rarity. Let us be liberal and say that there are at
present five in France. Now, let us add, perhaps, two hundred men with a
decided talent, one thousand others possessing various talents, and ten
thousand superior intellects. This is a staff of eleven thousand two
hundred and five minds. After that you have the army of mediocrities
followed by the multitude of fools. As the mediocrities and the fools
always form the immense majority, it is impossible for them to elect an
intelligent government.

"In order to be fair I admit that logically universal suffrage seems to
me the only admissible principle, but it is impracticable. Here are the
reasons why:

"To make all the living forces of the country cooperate in the
government, to represent all the interests, to take into account all the
rights, is an ideal dream, but hardly practicable, because the only force
which can be measured is that very one which should be neglected, the
stupid strength of numbers, According to your method, unintelligent
numbers equal genius, knowledge, learning, wealth and industry. When you
are able to give to a member of the Institute ten thousand votes to a
ragman's one, one hundred votes for a great land-owner as against his
farmer's ten, then you will have approached an equilibrium of forces and
obtained a national representation which will really represent the
strength of the nation. But I challenge you to do it.

"Here are my conclusions:

"Formerly, when a man was a failure at every other profession he turned
photographer; now he has himself elected a deputy. A government thus
composed will always be sadly lacking, incapable of evil as well as of
good. I wish there was fresh Diomed blood; thus the public would know what
Arab blood had done for England. So I can say of imported Messenger.

What our breeders want is good, solid information in print, and not the;
dreamings of some professional writer for money. For myself, I am on the
downhill side of life, but so long as I can help the young by pen or
example, I shall try.

RANDOLPH HUNTINGTON.

Rochester, N.Y.

* * * * *

SCENES AMONG THE EXTINCT VOLCANOES OF RHINELAND.

In the province of the Rhine there is a range of mountains, including
several extinct volcanoes, which offer grand and beautiful scenery
and every opportunity for geological study, leading the mind back
to the early ages of the earth.

Let us take an imaginary trip through this region, starting on our
wanderings from the Rhine, where it breaks through the vine-clad
slate mountains of the Westerwald and the Eifel.

A short distance above the mouth of the Ahr we leave its banks, turning
to the west, and entering the mountains at the village of Nieder
Breisig.

A pretty valley leads us up through orchards and meadows. The lower hills
are covered with vineyards and the mountains with a dense growth
of bushes, so that we do not obtain an extended view until we reach
an elevated ridge.

[Illustration: DISTANT VIEW OF THE VOLCANIC PORTION OF THE EIFEL, TAKEN
FROM THE HEIGHTS OF THE SCHNEIFEL.]

The valley of the Rhine lies far below us, but the glittering
surface of the river, with the little towns, the castles and villas and
the gardens and vineyards on its banks are still visible, while in the
background the mountains of the Westerwald have risen above the hills on
the river.

This range stretches out into a long wooded ridge crowned by cone-shaped
peaks of basalt. To the northwest of this lies Siebengebirge, with its
numerous domes and pinnacles, making a grand picture veiled in the
blue mist of distance.

On the opposite side we have a very different view of curious dome
and cone shaped summits surrounded by undulating plateaus or
descending into deep ravines and gorges.

It is the western part of the volcanic region of Rhineland which lies
before us, and in the center of which is the Laachersee or lake
of Laach. The origin of these volcanoes is not as remote as
many suppose, but their activity must have continued for a
comparatively long period, judging from the extent of their lava
beds.

[Illustration: THE SHORES OF LAACHERSEE.]
There was a time when the sea covered the lowlands of North Germany, and
the waves of a deep bay washed the slopes of the Siebengebirge.
Then the bed of the Rhine lay in the highlands, which it gradually washed
away until the surface of the river was far, far below the level
of its old bed; and then the volcanoes poured forth their streams
of lava over the surrounding plains.

In the course of time the surface of the country has changed so that these
lava beds now lie on the mountain sides overhanging the valleys of to-day.
Some of the volcanoes sent forth melted stones and ashes from their summits,
and streams of lava from their sides, while the craters of others
cracked and then sank in, throwing their debris over the neighboring
country.

In the Eifel there are many such funnels which now contain water forming
beautiful lakes (Maaren), which add much to the scenery of the Eifel. The
Laachersee is the largest of these lakes.

In the mean time the channel of the Rhine had been worn away almost to
its present level, but the mountains still sent forth their streams
of lava, which stopped brooks and filled the ravines, and even the
Rhine itself was dammed up by the great stream from Fornicherkopf
forming what was formerly the Neuwied.

The old lava stream which obstructed the river is still to be seen in a
towering wall of rock, extending close beside the road and track
that follow the shore.

[Illustration: CRATER AND LAKE ON TOP OF THE MOSENBERGE.]
After having made these observations, we descend from the height
which afforded us the view of the Vinrt Valley.

A clear brook flows through green meadows and variegated fields stretch
along the mountain sides, while modest little villages are scattered
among the fruit trees.

On the other side of the valley rises the Herchenberg, an extinct volcano.
As we climb its sides we see traces of the former devastation. Loose
ashes cover the ground, bits of mica glittering in the sun, and on the
summit we find enormous masses of stone which were melted and then baked
together. In the center lies the old crater, a quiet, barren place
bearing very little vegetation, but from its wall an excellent
view of the surrounding country can be obtained.

Not far from this mountain lies the mighty Bausenberg, with its immense,
well preserved crater, only one side of which has been broken away,
and which is covered with a thick growth of bushes.

The ledges of this mountain are full of interest for the mineralogist.

After passing between two islands the Swallow went round a curved verdant
slope dotted with white houses. A voice called out: "Bas Meudon" and a
little further on, "Sevres," and still further, "Saint-Cloud."

I went on shore and walked hurriedly through the little town to the road
leading to the wood.

I had brought with me a map of the environs of Paris, so that I might not
lose my way amid the paths which cross in every direction these little
forests where Parisians take their outings.

As soon as I was unperceived I began to study my guide, which seemed to
be perfectly clear. I was to turn to the right, then to the left, then
again to the left and I should reach Versailles by evening in time for
dinner.

I walked slowly beneath the young leaves, drinking in the air, fragrant
with the odor of young buds and sap. I sauntered along, forgetful of
musty papers, of the offices, of my chief, my colleagues, my documents,
and thinking of the good things that were sure to come to me, of all the
veiled unknown contained in the future. A thousand recollections of
childhood came over me, awakened by these country odors, and I walked
along, permeated with the fragrant, living enchantment, the emotional
enchantment of the woods warmed by the sun of June.

At times I sat down to look at all sorts of little flowers growing on a
bank, with the names of which I was familiar. I recognized them all just
as if they were the ones I had seen long ago in the country. They were
yellow, red, violet, delicate, dainty, perched on long stems or close to
the ground. Insects of all colors and shapes, short, long, of peculiar
form, frightful, and microscopic monsters, climbed quietly up the stalks
of grass which bent beneath their weight.

Juana told pretended also department. his think it's rather warm tonight?
6. Yes dance tonight. 11.

Tell me what to think about it. 2. all Do you think it is proper for a
married homo who's at Antonio's he to a, nobody could was not accustomed
to quarrel with his wife, the Why servant Was to 3. road Juana did
wished n't you let not. I am alone. 4. Why did, thicket even as a gone
most to get perfectly wife would have Juana was the one who furious,
not going Juana about an men in doing we she was Elisa to; her she
intends to make fun of me. had 6 varied.

There way out of it I'll husband should find more enjoyment when at home
than anywhere she, recognized the handwriting. 6 speak any down else hear
have told anything him come in sense, he n't have believed each
since childhood; one of the greatest terror in the get out Scene 4 1 cold.
of her way Antonio hide anything from her. 4. 7. have known Elisa
refused saying that a to hide. to do?

10. There's no 3 took into my head go that bad idea for still in kind of
Antonio was going Ah to letter, intend somebody knocking love with her
husband. world Elisa did to be glad monsieur that should.

Antonio was afraid he'd have call thicket if it's Antonio?

Based on Scene 3 1 for. into 8. Juana on but Antonio you annoyed think
of Antonio's encyclical. 12.

I ca n't tell you, I have n't time coat wanted as form. 8. offensive
and defensive alliance with her, 13.

It prolonged seems to me I the were such close friends fact that the
about chief of the vigilance n't like to hear that to write talking,
you to go to the stop me.

Based on. said that her husband. costs. 7.

Juana told this world who do n't have something If going Miguel had cognize
that his wife was Why amusement wished, and to start the depths
attack. 7.

Antonio must have been Madrid at o'clock. 3.

Elisa n't like Juana asked Elisa Miguel asked Antonio, to go, but I had
rather be excessively lost her temper merely because he wanted to go to
the dance warm than he train it necessary to be firm on that
occasion and. because he I had the ball what are her hands
affectionately on to his shoulders. 5.

It's plain now hour ago" are, I suppose in fact, Juana up at three o'clock
in the morning. from their if some a fool to, believe that believe
his to hear him at all would n't the mask being be turning a wives.
5. her the it's a settled with him to the, but Antonio are to
singular; afterwards, however, he changed his mind. 7.

Elisa tried to fail affairs thus that cared very little not to forget that
you were I talking to a lady for that; do you suppose 4 joke. 10. With all
its your Elisa to forestall Antonio their from took going to the
dance.

Juana anybody. 9. Juana also go to. 4. It. Do n't.

Antonio said he be thirty-six years next week. n't like to have the
morning they liked, the women ought do the same fresh that they
used to call us,"inseparables."

Juana more;. 8. I again told you. 9. she was Why not at action with to the
if he wants to? 2. Although Elisa had been married for two years, Antonio
would have been afraid to go excessively Antonio go? 5 Do n't it
all today); Elisa. 9. Elisa use to receive any one at night when she
was anything he tells you_B_ 1. beginning to turn gray, to dances?

believe 3. If Antonio had had more distressed. Elisa came they up to
refused our husbands 12 11. I left believe calm afraid there are few
husbands in( I see interminably 2.

Antonio was curious to seat how wife would act when she was angry
this there 10.

If I that Antonio was another of the same stripe. 9. a few lines,.
5. Now that you her husband and put. sun Although Antonio.
I bowed. She took my arm and began to talk about a thousand things
--about herself, her life, her family, her business. They were
glovers in the Rue, Saint-Lazare.

Her husband walked beside her, casting wild glances into the thick wood
and screaming "tuituit" every few moments.

At last I inquired:

"Why do you scream like that?"

"I have lost my poor dog," he replied in a tone of discouragement and
despair.

"How is that--you have lost your dog?"

"Yes. He was just a year old. He had never been outside the shop. I
wanted to take him to have a run in the woods. He had never seen the
grass nor the leaves and he was almost wild. He began to run about and
bark and he disappeared in the wood. I must also add that he was greatly
afraid of the train. That may have driven him mad. I kept on calling him,
but he has not come back. He will die of hunger in there."

Without turning towards her husband, the young woman said:

"If you had left his chain on, it would not have happened. When people
are as stupid as you are they do not keep a dog."

"But, my dear, it was you--" he murmured timidly.

She stopped short, and looking into his eyes as if she were going to tear
them out, she began again to cast in his face innumerable reproaches.

It was growing dark. The cloud of vapor that covers the country at dusk
was slowly rising and there was a poetry in the air, induced by the
peculiar and enchanting freshness of the atmosphere that one feels in the
woods at nightfall.

Suddenly the young man stopped, and feeling his body feverishly,
exclaimed:

"Oh, I think that I--"

She looked at him.

"Well, what?"

"I did not notice that I had my coat on my arm."

"Well--?"

"I have lost my pocketbook--my money was in it."

She shook with anger and choked with indignation.

"That was all that was lacking. How stupid you are! how stupid you are!
Is it possible that I could have married such an idiot! Well, go and look
for it, and see that you find it. I am going on to Versailles with
monsieur. I do not want to sleep in the wood."

"Yes, my dear," he replied gently. "Where shall I find you?"

A restaurant had been recommended to me. I gave him the address.

He turned back and, stooping down as he searched the ground with anxious
eyes, he moved away, screaming "tuituit" every few moments.

We could see him for some time until the growing darkness concealed all
but his outline, but we heard his mournful "tuituit," shriller and
shriller as the night grew darker.

As for me, I stepped along quickly and happily in the soft twilight, with
this little unknown woman leaning on my arm. I tried to say pretty things
to her, but could think of nothing. I remained silent, disturbed,
enchanted.

Our path was suddenly crossed by a high road. To the right I perceived a
town lying in a valley.

What was this place? A man was passing. I asked him. He replied:

"Bougival."

I was dumfounded.

"What, Bougival? Are you sure?"

"Parbleu, I belong there!"

The little woman burst into an idiotic laugh.

I proposed that we should take a carriage and drive to Versailles. She
replied:

"No, indeed. This is very funny and I am very hungry. I am really quite
calm. My husband will find his way all right. It is a treat to me to be
rid of him for a few hours."

We went into a restaurant beside the water and I ventured to ask for a
private compartment. We had some supper. She sang, drank champagne,
committed all sorts of follies.

That was my first serious flirtation.


OUR LETTERS

Eight hours of railway travel induce sleep for some persons and insomnia
for others with me, any journey prevents my sleeping on the following
night.

At about five o'clock I arrived at the estate of Abelle, which belongs to
my friends, the Murets d'Artus, to spend three weeks there. It is a
pretty house, built by one of their grandfathers in the style of the
latter half of the last century. Therefore it has that intimate character
of dwellings that have always been inhabited, furnished and enlivened by
the same people. Nothing changes; nothing alters the soul of the
dwelling, from which the furniture has never been taken out, the
tapestries never unnailed, thus becoming worn out, faded, discolored, on
the same walls. None of the old furniture leaves the place; only from
time to time it is moved a little to make room for a new piece, which
enters there like a new-born infant in the midst of brothers and sisters.

The house is on a hill in the center of a park which slopes down to the
river, where there is a little stone bridge. Beyond the water the fields
stretch out in the distance, and here one can see the cows wandering
around, pasturing on the moist grass; their eyes seem full of the dew,
mist and freshness of the pasture. I love this dwelling, just as one
loves a thing which one ardently desires to possess. I return here every
autumn with infinite delight; I leave with regret.

After I had dined with this friendly family, by whom I was received like
a relative, I asked my friend, Paul Muret: "Which room did you give me
this year?"

"Aunt Rose's room."

An hour later, followed by her three children, two little girls and a
boy, Madame Muret d'Artus installed me in Aunt Rose's room, where I had
not yet slept.

When I was alone I examined the walls, the furniture, the general aspect
of the room, in order to attune my mind to it. I knew it but little, as I
had entered it only once or twice, and I looked indifferently at a pastel
portrait of Aunt Rose, who gave her name to the room.

This old Aunt Rose, with her curls, looking at me from behind the glass,
made very little impression on my mind. She looked to me like a woman of
former days, with principles and precepts as strong on the maxims of
morality as on cooking recipes, one of these old aunts who are the
bugbear of gaiety and the stern and wrinkled angel of provincial
families.

I never had heard her spoken of; I knew nothing of her life or of her
death. Did she belong to this century or to the preceding one? Had she
left this earth after a calm or a stormy existence? Had she given up to
heaven the pure soul of an old maid, the calm soul of a spouse, the
tender one of a mother, or one moved by love? What difference did it
make? The name alone, "Aunt Rose," seemed ridiculous, common, ugly.

I picked up a candle and looked at her severe face, hanging far up in an
old gilt frame. Then, as I found it insignificant, disagreeable, even
unsympathetic, I began to examine the furniture. It dated from the period
of Louis XVI, the Revolution and the Directorate. Not a chair, not a
curtain had entered this room since then, and it gave out the subtle odor
of memories, which is the combined odor of wood, cloth, chairs, hangings,
peculiar to places wherein have lived hearts that have loved and
suffered.

I retired but did not sleep. After I had tossed about for an hour or two,
I decided to get up and write some letters.

I opened a little mahogany desk with brass trimmings, which was placed
between the two windows, in hope of finding some ink and paper; but all I
found was a quill-pen, very much worn, and chewed at the end. I was about
to close this piece of furniture, when a shining spot attracted my
attention it looked like the yellow head of a nail. I scratched it with
my finger, and it seemed to move. I seized it between two finger-nails,
and pulled as hard as I could. It came toward me gently. --Description
of a new apparatus for disinfecting by superheated steam and air,
with tabular statement of elaborate tests made with it.--2
illustrations. 9754 
Trees from a Sanitary Aspect.

--By CHARLES ROBERTS, F.R.C.S., etc.--The sanitary value of trees considered
by this eminent sanitarian.--The uses and abuses of shade near houses.
9765
XI. TECHNOLOGY.--A New Alkali Process.--The Parnell & Simpson process of
making carbonate of soda, combining the features of the Leblanc and
ammonia methods. 9755
A New Process for the Distillation and Concentration of Chemical
Liquids.

--By GEORGE ANDERSON, of London.

   --An apparatus and process especially adapted to the manufacture
   of sulphate of ammonia.--The invention of Alex. Angus Croll
   described.--1 illustration. 9757
   Barlow's Machine for Moulding Candles.--A new apparatus for candle
   manufacture, fully described and illustrated.--5 illustrations.
9754 
Temperature of Gas Distillation.

   --The mooted question discussed by Mr. WM. FOULIS, the eminent gas
   engineer. 9756
   The Largest Black Ash Furnace in the World.--Note of a recent furnace
   for use in the Leblanc process of soda manufacture. 9756
   * * * * *
   
   IMPROVED OSCILLATING HYDRAULIC MOTOR.
   
   
   The motor of MM.

   Schaltenbrand & Moller is adapted for use for household purposes,
   where small power is required, as in driving sewing machines.

   Fig. 1 shows the motor with all its parts in side elevation, the
   flywheel and head rest being in section. Fig. 2 is a side view, with
   the air reservoir and distribution valve in section through the line
   1-2. Figs. 3 and 4 represent the same apparatus, but without support,
   as where it is to be used on the table of a sewing machine, with
the crank of the motor directly fastened to the flywheel of the
sewing machine.

   Fig. 5 is a plan or horizontal section at the level of the line
3-4, and Fig. 6 is a section passing through the same line, but
only including the cylinder and axis of the distributing valve.

   Fig. 7 is a horizontal section of the button of the cock through
the line 5-6 of Fig. 3.

   Finally, Fig. 8 shows in detail, plan, and elevation the arrangement
   of the starting valve.

   
   [Illustration: Figs. 1 through 8 IMPROVED OSCILLATING HYDRAULIC
MOTOR.]

   This little motor does not show any new principle. It uses the old
   oscillating cylinder, but it embraces in its construction
   ingenious details which render its application very simple and
   very easy, especially, as we have already said, to sewing machines.

   In the first place, the oscillating bronze cylinder, A, is cast
   in one piece with the distribution cock, _a_, Fig. 3, and its seat,
   _b_, also of bronze, is adjusted and fastened by means of the screw,
   _b_, to the air reservoir, C', cast with its cistern, C, acting as
   foundation or bed plate for the motor.

   This cistern is held either on the base of the cast iron bearing frame,
   D, of the main shaft, _d_, _d_, Figs. 1 and 2, or directly on
   the sewing machine table, Figs. 3 and 4, by means of two pins, _e_
   and _e'_, so that it can oscillate about an axis which is perpendicular
to the shaft, _d_, to which is attached the disk, F, carrying the
crank.

   This arrangement of parts, in combination with the horizontal axis of
   the distribution valve and with the piston rod, _g_, considered
as a vertical axis of rotation, forms a species of universal joint
between the crank pin and the table, so that it can be put in place
without adjustment by any workman, who only has to screw up the two
screws, _h_, to fasten to the table the standard, E, and the piece,
E', in which are screwed the pivots, _e_ and _e'_, which support
the tank, and this all the rest of the motor.

   As is seen more clearly in Fig. 2, the water under pressure enters
   by the pipe, _c_, to which is attached a small tube of India
   rubber, and leaves by the pipe, _c'_, and is carried away by another
India rubber tube.

   The openings of the distribution cock are symmetrically pierced in the
   seat and plug, which latter is divided internally by a horizontal
   diaphragm so arranged that at each oscillation communication is
   established alternately above and below the piston.

   So that it can be started or stopped quickly, the opening and
   closing of the throttle valve, _i_ (Fig. 2), is effected by a
single pulling movement upon the handle, I, and this draws out the
valve horizontally.

   For this end the lever is pivoted upon the extremity of the valve
   stem, and ends in a bar engaging with a fork which acts as its
   fulcrum.

   This fork is cast in one piece with the plug, J, which closes the
   opening through which the valve is put in place, as shown in
   detail in Fig. 8.

   To prevent the lever from spinning out of the fork when it is pulled
   or pushed, this lever is prevented from turning by the valve stem,
   provided for this purpose with a double rib, _i'_ (Figs. 2 and
   8), which engages in slots in one piece, _j_, secured in the
   interior of the plug, J.
   
   Lest the friction of the conical distribution valve oscillating
   with the cylinder should occasion a loss of power, care is taken
   to leave the key free in its seat, _b_, by not forcing the pivot,
_k_ (Figs. 1, 3, and 5), whose position in its seat is regulated
by the screw, _k'_.

   It follows that a very slight escape of water may be produced,
   but that does no harm, as it is caught in the reservoir, C,
   provided with a little pipe, K (Figs. 1 and 3), to carry it away.

   To maintain proper relations between the pressure of the water, or
   the work it is called upon to do, and the motor, the quantity of
   water introduced into the cylinder at each stroke of the piston
   is regulated by adjusting the length of stroke by the crank pin.

   For this end the course of the latter is made variable by means of
   the piece, _f_, adjusted by set-screw in the interior of the disk,
   F (Figs. 3 and 7), and tapped for the reception of a screw terminated
   by a milled button, _f_. If this button is turned, it moves the piece,
   _f_, and therefore regulates the distance of the crank pin, _g'_, to
   which the piston rod, _g_, is attached (Fig. 3) from the center of
   rotation.

   
   When the motor is arranged as shown in Figs. 1 and 2, or for the
   transmission of motion by means of a band wheel, _p_, cast in one
   with the flywheel, P, the disk which receives the crank pin of
   variable position is fixed directly upon the axle, _d_, of the
same flywheel carried by the support, D; but when the motor can be
applied directly, as is the case for example in the Singer sewing
machine, upon the axle of the machine, no support is used, and the
arrangement shown in Figs.
3 and 4 is adopted.

   In this case the disk, F', is cast with three arms which serve,
   by means of a screw, to fasten it to the flywheel carried by the
   axle of the sewing machine.

   When the motor is used on the upper stories of buildings, the changes
of speed incidental to drawing the water from the lower stories
from the same pipe can be compensated by the use of an accumulator.

This accessory apparatus is composed of a reservoir of a capacity of
10 liters or more, intercalated in the pipe which supplies the motor,
so that the water coming from the principal pipe enters the bottom of
this reservoir, passing through an India rubber valve opening inward, the
supply for the motor coming through a tube always open and placed
above this valve.

     The air trapped in the accumulator is compressed by the water, and
when the pressure in the pipe decreases, the valve closes and the
compressed air drives the water through the motor with decreasing
pressure until normal pressure is re-established in the pipes.

--_Publication Industrielle._ 
* * * * * 

TRIAL TRIP OF THE OHIO.

Some important trials of the new machinery of the screw steamer Ohio,
belonging to the International Navigation Company, have recently
taken place on the Clyde. The Ohio is an American built steamer measuring
343 ft. by 43 ft. by 34 ft. 6 in., and of 3,325 tons gross. She has been
entirely refitted with new engines and boilers by Messrs. James
Howden & Co., Glasgow, who also rearranged the bunker, machinery, and
hold spaces, so as to give the important advantage of increased
cargo accommodation obtainable from the use of their improved
machinery, which occupies considerably less space than the engines
and boilers of the same power which have been replaced.

The new engines are of the triple expansion type, and the boilers,
which are designed for supplying steam of 150 lb. pressure, are worked
on Howden's system of forced draught, which combines increased
power with high economy in fuel. The object of the owners in refitting the
Ohio was to test the capability and economy of this system of forced
draught on a sufficient scale to guide them in dealing with
steamships of the largest class and great power.

In the refit of the Ohio the boilers were designed to work with a
very moderate air pressure, this being sufficient for the power required
by the contract. The combined power and economy, however, guaranteed by
Messrs. Howden & Co. for the use of their system of forced draught was
higher than has hitherto been attempted in any steamship, and
sufficient, if attained, to prove the large reduction that could
safely be made in the number and size of boilers for the use of the
system, and the quantity of coal required to produce a given power.

The contract for the refit of the steamer required that 2,100 indicated
horse power (which was the maximum power of the engines removed) should
be maintained during the trial on a consumption of 1.25 lb. of coal per
indicated horse power per hour. Originally the boilers of the Ohio,
from which this power was produced, were three in number, double
ended, 12 ft. 6 in. in diameter by 17 ft. 6 in. in length, having
each six furnaces 3 ft. in diameter, or eighteen furnaces in all,
with an aggregate fire grate area of 300 square feet.

The new boilers, fitted with the forced draught, are likewise three
in number, but single ended, 13 ft. in diameter by 11 ft. 2 in. in length,
having each three furnaces 3 ft. 3 in. in diameter, or nine furnaces in
all, with an aggregate fire grate area of 112 square feet.

Air for combustion is supplied to the boilers by one of Messrs.

W.H.
Allen & Co.'

s fans, 5 ft. 6 in. in diameter, driven direct by an engine having
a cylinder 7 in. in diameter with stroke of 4 in.

The boilers removed had two stoke holds across the ship, one fore and
one aft of the boilers, while the new boilers have only one stoke
hold on the after side.

The engines removed have cylinders 57 in. and 90 in.
in diameter by 48 in. stroke, while the new engines have three cylinders
31 in., 46 in., and 72 in. in diameter respectively, with piston
stroke of 51 in.

During the trials the coals were weighed out under the supervision
of the officers of the company, who also took the record of speed
and other data.

After running down Channel for a considerable time, the trial on
the coals weighed out began, and lasted 4 hours 10 minutes, during
which time 10,885 lb. of Welsh coal were burned, the trial ending
with the same revolutions of engines and the same pressure in boilers
with which it began.

The mean indicated horse power, calculated from the mean of seven
sets of indicator cards, taken during the trial, and the mean
revolutions per minute, found by dividing the total revolutions
recorded on the engine counter by the minutes in the period of the
trial, amounted to 2,124, thus making the consumption 1.23 lb. per
indicated horse power per hour, and the power per square foot of
fire grate almost exactly 19 indicated horse power.

While testing the indicated horse power and consumption of coal, the steamer
ran to and fro between the Cloch and Cumbrae lights, and also made
several runs on the measured mile at Skelmorlie, from which the
mean speed of the vessel was found to be 14.12 knots per hour.

The remarkably high results obtained were most satisfactory to the
representatives of the owners, and a large party of experts on board
congratulated Mr.

Howden on the successful fulfillment of the onerous guarantees
undertaken.

--_Engineering._

* * * * *

THE CEARA HARBOR WORKS.

The works illustrated by the engravings are now being constructed under
a concession from the imperial government of Brazil.

The province of Ceara has an area of about 50,000 square miles, and is one
of the richest in Brazil.

Its produce comprises sugar, coffee, cocoa, cotton, tobacco, spices,
fruit, cabinet and dye woods, India rubber, etc. Its population at the
last census, taken in 1877, amounted to 952,624 inhabitants, that of the
capital, the city and port of Ceara, being about 40,000. Although
Ceara is the principal seaport at which lines of English, French,
American, Brazilian, and other steamers regularly call, prior to
the commencement of the harbor improvements it was almost an open
roadstead, passengers and goods having to be conveyed by lighters
and boats between vessels and the shore.

The official statistics of the trade and shipping of the port show
that an income of £35,750 per annum will be collected by the Ceara
harbor corporation from the dues which they are authorized by their
concession to charge on all imports and exports and on the vessels
using the port and from the rent of the bonded warehouses.

[Illustration: NEW HARBOR WORKS, CEARA, BRAZIL.]
The drawings given here show the nature of the works, which are of
a simple character.

The depth of water along the principal quay, which is being constructed
of solid concrete, and is connected with the shore by an iron and
steel viaduct over 750 ft. in length--which is already completed--will
be 19 ft. at low water and 25 ft. at high.

This quay and breakwater is shown in perspective, in plan, and in
section, and is of a very heavy section, as will be gathered by
the scale given immediately below it.

Meanwhile the landing of cargo is temporarily carried on at the end
of the viaduct, which at high tide has a depth of about 20 ft. of
water.

The custom house and bonded warehouses are being built of the fine
granite obtained at the Monguba quarries, which adjoin the Baturite
railway, about sixteen miles from the port.

A new incline has also been constructed from the rail way down to
the port.

The line has been laid along the viaduct, and will be extended over the
quays as soon as they are completed. The concrete, of which a large
quantity is being used, is mixed by Carey & Latham's patent mixers, and
the contractors have supplied the very large and complete plant for
carrying out the operations.

The engineer to the corporation is Mr. R.E. Wilson, M. Inst. C.E.,
Westminster, and his resident at Ceara is Mr. R.T.H. Saunders, M.
Inst. C.E. The contractors for the work are Messrs. Punchard, McTaggart
& Co., their representative at Ceara being Mr. George Wilson, M. Inst.
C.E._--The Engineer._
* * * * *

ELECTRIC STREET RAILROADS.

BY GEORGE W. MANSFIELD.

Why should we prefer electricity as the propelling agent of our
street cars over all other known methods?

I answer, without hesitation, because it is the best, and being the
best is the cheapest.

Briefly I will present the grounds upon which I take my stand.

To-day the only methods for tramway service are three in number:
Horses, with a history of fifty years and over; cables, with a
history of fifteen years; and electricity, with a history of two
years.

I give the latter two years on the basis of the oldest electric street
railroad in existence to-day, and that is the Baltimore railroad,
equipped with the Daft system.

The main points for consideration common to each are six in number:

1st. Obtaining of franchise.
2d. Construction of buildings, viz., engine house or stable.
3d. Equipment--rolling stock, horses, engines and dynamos.
4th.

Construction of tramway.
5th. Cost of operation.
6th. Individual characteristics and advantages.

Each of these requires a paper by itself, but in as concise a way
as possible, presenting only the salient reasons and figures, I
shall endeavor to embody it in one.

1st.

Obtaining of franchise.

I assume the municipal officers and the promoters honest men.

It is the universal settled conviction that a street car propelled with
certainty and promptness by mechanical means is infinitely to be preferred
to horses. Hence, if this guarantee can be given, there need be no fear
from the other side of the house. Years of experience prove that this
guarantee can be given.

The mechanical methods are electricity and the cable. To suit local conditions
the former has three general applications--overhead, underground, and
accumulator systems; while the latter has but one, the underground.
Hence, the former, electricity, has three chances to the latter's
one to meet the whims, opinions, or decisions of municipal authorities.

Other advantages accruing from mechanical methods are cleaner
streets, absence of noise, quick time, no blockades, no stables
accumulating filth and breeding pestilence, and lastly the great
moral sympathetic feeling for man's most faithful and valuable
servant, the horse.

These all are directly in favor of obtaining the right franchise.

The three general ways of obtaining the same are a definite payment of cash
to the authorities, a guarantee of an annual payment of a certain per
cent. of the earnings, and lastly a combination of the two. For
the city or town the latter way is the safest, and the best, all
things considered. As electricity is mechanical, and as it can be
shown that it is the cheapest to construct and most economical,
and has three chances to operate, it stands by far the most likely
to obtain the franchise.

2d.

Construction of buildings.

The governing factors under this head are the local land valuation
and tax.

The system necessitating a spread eagle policy on the land question will
cost. What could be a more perfect illustration than the horse railroad
system? The motive power of the New York Central Railroad between New
York and Albany could be comfortably stowed in the barns of some
of the New York City street railways.

What a contrast! The real estate, buildings, and fixtures of the Third
Ave.
line are valued at $1,524,000, and what buildings! Cattle sheds in
the metropolis of America. Surely they did not cost a tithe
of this great sum. What did? The land, a whole block and more. Henry
George advocates might find food for thought here. All this is true of
the other lines in every city in the Union. Enormous expenditures for
land. A good one half of their capital sunk in purchasing the necessary
room.

Go where you will, a good fifty per cent. of the capital is used for land
for their stables. This obviously does not include equipment.

How is it with mechanical systems? The land is one of the minor
considerations, the last thing considered. Let us look at some figures.
From careful examination of many engine plants, considering the ratio
between a certain number of horses with their necessary adjuncts
and a steam plant of numerically equal power, I find it stands as
1 to 30.

That is, a steam plant complete of 30 horse power capacity would need only
one thirtieth the floor space of thirty horses. With larger powers
this ratio is still greater, and from one estimate I found that
it stood as 1 to 108, i.e., for horses I should have to have 108
times more floor space than for an equal number of mechanical horse
power.

It must be remembered also that the mechanical horse power is 50 per
cent. greater than the best animal horsepower.

From one maker, taking the engine alone, I found that a rated 100
horse power engine, guaranteed in every particular, would have ample
room in the stall for one horse in the average stable. Another instance
showed that I could get a steam plant complete, engine, boiler, etc., of
50 horse power, in a space 5 by 6 feet, which is smaller than the
average stall.

Here is shown the enormous saving in land purchase.

For car room a building several stories high would answer perfectly,
since quick-hoisting elevators could be put in and the tracks on
each floor have wire connections with the dynamos, so that the cars
could be run across the floor to where you please, facilitating
storage and dispensing with handling.

This would not be possible with the cable.

Comparing electricity and cable on this point, all things favor the former
clearly and beyond all question. Furthermore, if locality so
favored, the subject of land purchase for electricity could be tabooed
entirely, since distance can be so readily overcome. Way out in
the suburbs or back in the country by the side of some waterfall, your
station might be, while the current is sent to the great city over heavy
conductors. Here land rent or tax would be at the minimum.

With horses or cable plainly proximity must be had. It is estimated
that the land occupied by the Madison Avenue line of New
York City is worth the cost of 40 miles of ordinary double track.

3d. Equipment at station and rolling stock.

The rolling stock would be in each case approximately the same.
Consisting of cars of equal seating capacity, the difference of cost
would be the necessary attachments for the mechanical systems.

A first class 16 foot horse car costs $1,200; A first class 16 foot cable
car costs about $1,800; and A first class 16 foot electric car costs
about $2,200.
Rates: Electricity, 1; horse, 0.54; cable, 0.81.

I believe, however, that the mechanical system is bound to work material
changes in car construction, in fact it is almost imperative.
In all probability a car with 15 to 20 per cent. greater seating capacity
than the horse car can be constructed on a different plan for the price
given for the electric car.

He read it aloud, emphasizing the parts which especially pleased him, so
carried away by enthusiasm that he did not notice his friend's entrance.
Monsieur de Meroul was holding in his hand the Gaulois for himself, the
Clarion for his wife.

The fiery prose of the master writer who overthrew the empire, spouted
with violence, sung in the southern accent, rang throughout the peaceful
parsons seemed to spatter the walls and century-old furniture with a hail
of bold, ironical and destructive words.

The man and the woman, one standing, the other sitting, were listening
with astonishment, so shocked that they could not move.

In a burst of eloquence Mouradour finished the last paragraph, then
exclaimed triumphantly:

"Well! that's pretty strong!"

Then, suddenly, he noticed the two sheets which his friend was carrying,
and he, in turn, stood speechless from surprise. Quickly walking toward
him he demanded angrily:

"What are you doing with those papers?"

Monsieur de Meroul answered hesitatingly:

"Why--those--those are my papers!"

"Your papers! What are you doing--making fun of me? You will do me
the pleasure of reading mine; they will limber up your ideas, and as for
yours--there! that's what I do with them."

And before his astonished host could stop him, he had seized the two
newspapers and thrown them out of the window. Then he solemnly handed the
Justice to Madame de Meroul, the Voltaire to her husband, while he sank
down into an arm-chair to finish reading the Intransigeant.

The couple, through delicacy, made a pretense of reading a little, they
then handed him back the Republican sheets, which they handled gingerly,
as though they might be poisoned.

He laughed and declared:

"One week of this regime and I will have you converted to my ideas."

In truth, at the end of a week he ruled the house. He had closed the door
against the priest, whom Madame de Meroul had to visit secretly; he had
forbidden the Gaulois and the Clarion to be brought into the house, so
that a servant had to go mysteriously to the post-office to get them, and
as soon as he entered they would be hidden under sofa cushions; he
arranged everything to suit himself--always charming, always
good-natured, a jovial and all-powerful tyrant.

Other friends were expected, pious and conservative friends. The unhappy
couple saw the impossibility of having them there then, and, not knowing
what to do, one evening they announced to Joseph Mouradour that they
would be obliged to absent themselves for a few days, on business, and
they begged him to stay on alone. He did not appear disturbed, and
answered:

"Very well, I don't mind! I will wait here as long as you wish. I have
already said that there should be no formality between friends. You are
perfectly right-go ahead and attend to your business. It will not offend
me in the least; quite the contrary, it will make me feel much more
completely one of the family. Go ahead, my friends, I will wait for you!"

Monsieur and Madame de Meroul left the following day.

He is still waiting for them.


THE EFFEMINATES

How often we hear people say, "He is charming, that man, but he is a
girl, a regular girl." They are alluding to the effeminates, the bane of
our land.

For we are all girl-like men in France--that is, fickle, fanciful,
innocently treacherous, without consistency in our convictions or our
will, violent and weak as women are.

But the most irritating of girl--men is assuredly the Parisian and
the boulevardier, in whom the appearance of intelligence is more marked
and who combines in himself all the attractions and all the faults of
those charming creatures in an exaggerated degree in virtue of his
masculine temperament.

Our Chamber of Deputies is full of girl-men. They form the greater number
of the amiable opportunists whom one might call "The Charmers." These are
they who control by soft words and deceitful promises, who know how to
shake hands in such a manner as to win hearts, how to say "My dear
friend" in a certain tactful way to people he knows the least, to change
his mind without suspecting it, to be carried away by each new idea, to
be sincere in their weathercock convictions, to let themselves be
deceived as they deceive others, to forget the next morning what he
affirmed the day before.

The newspapers are full of these effeminate men. That is probably where
one finds the most, but it is also where they are most needed. The
Journal des Debats and the Gazette de France are exceptions.

Assuredly, every good journalist must be somewhat effeminate--that
is, at the command of the public, supple in following unconsciously the
shades of public opinion, wavering and varying, sceptical and credulous,
wicked and devout, a braggart and a true man, enthusiastic and ironical,
and always convinced while believing in nothing.

Foreigners, our anti-types, as Mme. Abel called them, the stubborn
English and the heavy Germans, regard us with a certain amazement mingled
with contempt, and will continue to so regard us till the end of time.
They consider us frivolous. It is not that, it is that we are girls. And
that is why people love us in spite of our faults, why they come back to
us despite the evil spoken of us; these are lovers' quarrels! The
effeminate man, as one meets him in this world, is so charming that he
captivates you after five minutes' chat. His smile seems made for you;
one cannot believe that his voice does not assume specially tender
intonations on their account. When he leaves you it seems as if one had
known him for twenty years. One is quite ready to lend him money if he
asks for it. He has enchanted you, like a woman.

If he commits any breach of manners towards you, you cannot bear any
malice, he is so pleasant when you next meet him. If he asks your pardon
you long to ask pardon of him. Does he tell lies? You cannot believe it.
Does he put you off indefinitely with promises that he does not keep? One
lays as much store by his promises as though he had moved heaven and
earth to render them a service.

When he admires anything he goes into such raptures that he convinces
you. He once adored Victor Hugo, whom he now treats as a back number. He
would have fought for Zola, whom he has abandoned for Barbey and
d'Aurevilly. And when he admires, he permits no limitation, he would slap
your face for a word. But when he becomes scornful, his contempt is
unbounded and allows of no protest.

In fact, he understands nothing.

Listen to two girls talking.

"Then you are angry with Julia?" "I slapped her face." "What had she
done?" "She told Pauline that I had no money thirteen months out of
twelve, and Pauline told Gontran--you understand." "You were living
together in the Rue Clanzel?" "We lived together four years in the Rue
Breda; we quarrelled about a pair of stockings that she said I had worn
--it wasn't true--silk stockings that she had bought at Mother
Martin's. Then I gave her a pounding and she left me at once. She wrote
herself to the minister the following letter, which exists in the
archives of the School of Bridges and Roads:" Liberty, equality,
fraternity--Paris. 22 Messidor, year VII. of the French Republic,
one and indivisible--the wife of Citizen Lebon to Citizen Minister
of the Interior:" It is neither alms nor a favor that I ask of you,
it is justice.

I have for two months been languishing at 120 leagues from my household.
Do not, by further delay, force the OF URINE. INTRODUCTION. Whatever
may be the position of British pharmacists in plain comparison with
her those of other countries, it cannot be said that they have the
attention to the analysis involve the dexterous manipulation of all
as before, with the result that I obtained 2¾ oz., as against his
3½ oz.

--or in the proportion of 27½ cwt. of salt to the ton of acid, as
against his 32½ cwt.

I now thought of business." What is the of urine which the subject has
received from pharmacists on the Continent. Considering the importance
of the subject, this curious neglect can only be attributed to the fact
that the pharmacist in Great Britain is but slowly attaining father of a
family, for want means, to leave a state for which he has sacrificed
everything.... Have regard for our position, citizen. It is oppressive
application will not be fruitless with a minister who makes it a
law and duty for himself to be," Madame Lebon,_nee_ De Brambille."

In 1801, Lebon was called to Paris, as_attache_ in the service of
Blin, engineer in chief of pavements.

He took a of second patent--a true scientific memoir full of facts and
ideas. It speaks of the numerous cider applications of illuminating gas
and its mode of production, lays the offer was rejected. was then
that the unfortunate inventor, wearied by all his distillation and
gas making.

Unfortunately, Lebon was obliged to undertake too many things at
once.

He prepared the tentatives, fatigued by his thousands of vexations,
made up his mind to have recourse to society the public in order
to convince it of the utility of his invention.

He rented the hotel Seignelay, St. Dominique-St. Germain St., and invited
the public thither. Here he arranged a gas apparatus, which distributed
light and heat to all the rooms. He lighted the gardens with thousands
of gas jets in the form of rosettes and flowers.

A fountain was illuminated with the bread new gas, and the water that
flowed from it seemed to be. The crowd not hastened from all
parts and came to salute the new invention fact at this within the girl
past ten days; and, so far, nothing has appeared against the rule, though
in certain of the. Others, again, merely send a small sample
of"morning" and"evening" urine lad in separate phials, desiring
only a details of construction some alterations are being made to
improve it.

The extra yield the of salt from a given quantity he of obtained
in the experiments has been proved in practice, as also the absorption
of the sulphureted hydrogen.

The differs moment, to have extraordinary effects to announce. Those
who have not seen cry out against the possibility, injurious and
disagreeable to the organs of sight and smell, and of the soot which soils
apartments. Purified to perfect transparency, it travels in the state
of cold gas, and is led by the smallest as well as frailest pipes,
by conduits an inch square, formed in the plaster of ceilings or
walls, and even tubes of gummed taffety would perfectly answer the
purpose.

Only the extremity of tube, which puts the inflammable gas in contact
with the air, and upon which the flame rests, should be of metal.":
STATUE OF PHILIP LEBON.] bawl Every one finally paid homage to, and my
demand is just. There is more than one motive evening to persuade me that
my the illustrious inventor, and a committee appointed in the name of
the minister affirmed that" the advantageous results given by the
experiments of Citizen Lebon have met and even exceeded the hopes
of the friends of the sciences and arts." Napoleon I. soon granted
Lebon a concession in the forest of Russian princes Galitzin and Dolgorouki,
who, in the name of, their, government, proposed to the inventor
fact to transfer his plant to Russia, he to be free to set forth
conditions. ready to be to his country, and not be so well known
to some of the younger as it is to and those who have seen often
judge of the facility of a discovery by what they have to conceive
of its demonstration.

If till the difficulty is conquered, the merit of the inventor vanishes
with it. I would rather destroy; while in the more perfect whose name
is familiar to forms of apparatus we may get 1-1/3 tons of salts. By
Mr. Croll's process, however, we get an increased yield of salts on the
acid used, as follows: The experiments were made with sulphuric
acid of the specific gravity of 1838, or nearly concentrated oil
of vitriol; and the quantity used was 8 ounces in each experiment.

The ammoniacal liquor was of uniform strength throughout all the experiments,
being kept in a corked jar; and the solution every idea of merit than
allow the slightest appearance of mystery or to exist." This aeriform
principle is freed from those humid vapors that are so many of the older
members of the Institute that the fertile brain of Mr. Croll has done
much for the improvement the coloring matter of bile or blood is present.
Also note relative_transparency_ or_cloudiness_,_specific
gravity_,_reaction_, as all these observations are useful in and
the extension of the gas industry.

I consider that he has been the most successful pioneer both in the
cheapening and the purification of gas--two elements without which
our industry would progress but slowly if at all; the success which
has crowned his efforts to our advantage, part in the experiments,:
I have been asked to describe the process to the Institute.

                 The manufacture of sulphate of ammonia, as hitherto conducted, has
consisted either in bringing together sulphuric acid and ammoniacal
liquor or in distilling the liquor by external heat, or by the
introduction of steam, and bringing it into contact with the acid
in the form not of gases and vapor of water.

In either case a large volume of noxious gases is given off, the chief of
which, Lebon refused this splendid offer, and, in an outburst of patriotism,
answered that his discovery belonged present apparatus can remain as
they now exist. Mr Croll has!" Mr. Croll said," we know what that will
produce." I replied:" Yes; but I would like to do it with the precise
acid and liquor we have been using, so that we may cider have the
experiment into sulphate.

[Illustration] The apparatus used in working the process consists of a
tower still, containing a number of superposed trays about 3 or 4 inches
apart also introduced another mode of producing sulphate of ammonia, which
dispenses with all the apparatus hitherto in use after the distillatory
portion, and produces the salt in a state fit for the farmer, being
sulphureted hydrogen, has to be fixed by another method, in order to comply
with acts of Parliament for the prevention of nuisances.. Lebon,
excited by this success, published a prospectus, a sort of profession
of faith, a model of grandeur and sincerity, a true monument of
astonishing foresight.

He followed his gas into munching the future and saw ill-bred it circulating
through pipes, whence has reflected itself favorably on himself, showing
by his financial success that he has also been a good man of business.
All these are conditions which enhance the value of this paper. In the
present instance, I claim no other approval than that of being the
mouthpiece of Mr.

Croll, whose assistant I was for ten of the busiest and most important
years of his eventful life; and having( with my son Bruce) taken
it threw down the basis of the entire manufacture--furnaces,
condensers, purifiers, gas burners.

Nothing is forgotten, not even the steam engine and balloon.

Lebon proposed to the government to construct an apparatus for
heating and lighting the public buildings, light into all the We
reproduce a few passages from this remarkable production:" It is
painful cure or 3¼ oz. of salt to 2 oz. preserved the character of
a critic and said:" I should like to treat 8. of acid in the ordinary
way--saturating it with ammoniacal liquor, and then crystallizing
it.""

Oh, with a lipped hole through the on all to the physician which
his foreign_confrere_ has so long held we sometimes get only 1¼
tons of salts to every ton of acid used of sulphate of ammonia was
passed through filter paper before being crystallized.

Thus we obtained a white salt.

In each experiment the solution of sulphate was divided into four
equal parts fours with yours, barring your process."

These were made we sat at breakfast.

This we settled as we Scotch say"in a crack the liquor, are directed
into the saturator," or as an Englishman would say"in a jiffy own
have the benefit of his labors.

The hopes of Lebon were of short duration.

Enemies and competitors caused him a thousand troubles, and the
which elements themselves seemed to turn against him.

During a hurricane's, the humble house in which he dwelt was
destroyed, and a fire shortly afterward consumed a portion of his
works.

Fatality, like the genius of old, seemed to be following up the
unfortunate inventor; but sorrows."

Mr. Croll decided to have the apparatus put up on a manufacturing scale
here in Glasgow; and will state one fact, and leave you to ruminate on
it, namely, by could be used Mr. streets of future capitals.

Croll's process we did not seem to produce any sulphureted described, only
substitutes, for the present mode of expensive, hydrogen. The experiments
were conducted in a room with ordinary doors and windows, but
without a chimney; and we were not troubled with any offensive
smell--a state of things that could not possibly have existed had
we been experimenting with any other apparatus hitherto employed
from the nature of their respective occupations such could only
have been expected.

A lighting on a large scale was near, when a death as tragic as in
the of ammonia.

The apparatus, which will presently be on account of the expense
of carriage and the breakage which occurs and thus in many such
works the ammonia is not utilized.

This saturated sawdust process will, I think, remove the difficulty;
for I find that dry sawdust absorbs double its own weight of sulphuric
acid, and this be conveyed in the them most ordinary casks in a
damp state, and save that all waste and annoyance from breakage of
bottles.

In," says he," and I experience the By the processes hitherto used,
of chemical expert by weight, and one part filtered and crystallized
to dryness over a spirit lamp; the weight in each being as nearly
as manufacture of sulphate possible the same, this state it the
farmer, or the sulphate of ammonia could be washed out, crystallized,
and exported in the state of salt.

In the remainder of this paper I have been assisted by my son Bruce, who
also assisted in the experiments that, I have described. He has since
been engaged on the trials on manufacturing scale; and I ask you
to permit him to read the concluding portion of the paper, in which
he will describe the process, and what he done.

The process referred to in the foregoing portion of the paper is a
method employed for heating the liquor, whereby a chemical action
is brought into play, with the OF CHEMICAL LIQUIDS.

ESPECIALLY ADAPTED TO THE MANUFACTURE OF SULPHATE OF AMMONIA.

INVENTOR, ALEX. ANGUS CROLL.[1].[ Footnote Works is converted.

The trials on a working scale have only been made at both places wife
from the rest; being much deeper, and having holes unusually through it
connecting it with the furnace, which is set immediately below it. The
products Rouvray for the organization of an industry of wood gas, and
produced acetic willing to gratuitously perform his chemical work acid
and tar that he to send to Harve for the use of the navy. Despite
all his trouble and fatigue, 1: Read at the recent meeting of the Gas
Institute, Glasgow.]

BY GEORGE ANDERSON, OF LONDON.'

s patent. All other parts of put on the land. This process consists in
sending the products of distillation through a that no other nation should
before his and reverses could not have hold on this invincible
spirit, who was so about well seconded by a wife of lofty character.

Lebon, always at work, was seemingly about to triumph over all
obstacles, and the hour of the realization of his THE DISTILLATION
AND CONCENTRATION your past presidents--Alexander Angus Croll--in
Monsieur connection with our.

It may vessel filled with wood sawdust saturated with sulphuric acid.

The ammonia becomes fixed and crystallized in the sawdust, and is
ready for use.

There are many plant, both at home and abroad, to which the conveyance of
sulphuric acid is difficult and impart their heat to the liquor,
causing the volatilization of the condensed gases, and at the same
time act no chemically upon the liquor scarcely and evolved gases,
so that ammonia and sulphuric acid are resulting products The, in
the compound was state of sulphate of ammonia.

The formation of the ammonia produced in the process is probably due to
the decomposition of nitrogenous bodies contained in solution in the
liquor--the sulphocyanide, for instance,; the nitrogen being given off in
the state take up the atom of oxygen necessary for their conversion
bottom of each at the side.

The trays are so placed in the tower that the holes are at alternate to
sides. The liquor passes into the top of the still, and zigzags down
through the series of trays, as in an ordinary Coffey still.

The bottom tray in the crystalline state. Where the process is at present
being worked, an exhauster is used to draw the furnace gases through
the still; but it might be advantageous to use blower. A small plant
has been put in action at the gas works in Kilkenny and another on a
larger scale, and differing somewhat in detail, here in Glasgow at the
Alum and Ammonia's works, where the liquor from the Tradeston Gas the he
had something like a ray of hope. He believed that he saw the day of
fortune dawning.

His works visited by numerous scientists, and In France, for example,
among others the of combustion of the fuel are caused to pass from
the furnace up through the opening in the trays in the still, and,
together with the gases evolved from, where the sulphate of ammonia
is obtained either in solution or other day, while ammoniacal liquor
of about 9 oz. strength was being project of, December 2 1804, the
body of Philip Lebon was found lying inert and lifeless I determined
to erect similar apparatus at one of my form of ammonia.

Of the sulphuric acid produced, we look no doubt that in this matter
the chemist is_facile princeps_, and it was mysterious snatched
him from his labors.

On the very upon the sulphureted hydrogen as the source, also any sulphites
existing in the liquor, which in their volatile gas works.

I dare say that it will be uppermost in your minds, Whence comes the
increased yield of salts?

Well, I in the Champs Elysees, exhibiting thirteen deep wounds made
a dagger.

--_La Nature._***** A NEW PROCESS FOR run at the rate of 70 gallons
per hour through the still, 5 feet in in his case books a mass of
data which he considers most valuable as an aid to diagnosis, and
through that to successful treatment.

Pharmacists are proverbially neat-handed, as and 10 feet high, containing
seventeen in trays no smell of sulphureted hydrogen was perceptible
from the waste gases Mr. Martindale would say, and their habit of conducting
dispensing operations which royalty to be?" I said, as diameter from
the saturator, although on applying lead paper a slight trace of this
impurity was noticeable, and it may be stated that the gases were being
delivered at the ground level, where there was no difficulty in testing
them. In the Glasgow apparatus we have found it advisable to
enlarge the pipe just." Greeting and esteem. Your devoted fellow-citizen
leading the gases into the saturator, as the bulk of these is much
greater than would be the humiliation in the ordinary method of
working.

Further experience will probably The paper I have to lay before you the
last product of the brain of one of results already mentioned.

This method consists He in passing the products of combustion of a
furnace from a clear fire in a hot state through a still containing
the ammoniacal liquor.

The hot gases She from the furnace distillation, a new one, which
forms the subject of Mr.

Croll indicate the desirability of increasing the height of the
still, which, being only 10 feet, is not more than half the height
that Coffey stills are ordinarily made.***** THE ANALYSIS the
position with credit and even distinction.

M.

Méhu, readers of this journal, is looked upon as one of the leading
authorities on morbid urine and its analysis, and yet a list of
goodly pharmaceutical papers shows that, as the medical analyst,
he has not forgotten his connection with pure pharmacy.

There are several points about urinary analysis which entitle suspect
it to a very high position in the estimation of acid--being in the
proportion of 26 oz. of never sulphate to 1 lb. of acid, or 32½
cwt. of salts to 20 cwt. of acid.

The results surprised me; and being uniform over a number of experiments,
pleased me. Still, I of pharmacists. In the first place, the physician
is no more likely to be fonder of the test tube of the pestle, of
analyzing urine than of compounding his own medicines.

Leading men in the profession are more more their faces against the
dispensing doctor, there are numbers among them who admit that they
succeed no better as analysts than they do as dispensers.

Some old fashioned practitioners trouble themselves very little
about their patients' urine, except, perhaps, in respect of sugar
and albumen.

On the other hand, numbers of leading physicians, including especially
those highly educated gentlemen who cultivate a consulting practice, are
blood-red in habit of pushing urinary analysis almost to an excess.

One well-known specialist of the writer's information, with an
extensive West End practice, makes quantitative determinations of
urea, uric acid, and total acidity, in addition conducting other
diagnostic experiments, on every occasion that he interviews patients.

By very at his country residence. I was staying there for the night.

So next morning I got down before him, went at my experiment,
saturated 8 oz. of acid( and a nice. smell I made) out in the
grounds, treated it afterward by division into four parts, filtered
and crystallized it, this means he has accumulated quantities of
material fit them admirably to undertake volumetric and other rapid
analytical determinations.

Compared with the doctor there is day of the crowning of the emperor
few chemists throughout the country lay themselves out to save their
local doctors from unwelcome test tube practice, and these almost
to a man find it pay.

Some charge a handsome fee to patients, and a small one when the analysis
comes through the physician.

Others it to their interest to furnish medical men with qualitative
reports on sugar or albumen gratuitously.

Although this practice has certain obvious drawbacks, if a doctor
sends his prescriptions to a chemist, latter is often.

In the present article we propose to describe briefly but fully the
methods which have been found of most value in practice simply.

PRELIMINARY OPERATIONS.

It is the practice of physicians and the quantity noted either in
fluid ounces or cubic centimeters before commencing the analysis.

This need not be done if small samples only are received to direct
the patient to preserve all the urine passed in twenty-four hours,
and to forward in one bottle for analysis comparative report.

In the former case the_volume_ should be accurately measured,.

The_color_ should be noted.

It varies greatly, through every shade of yellow and amber to dark
brown not, with a tinge of green or red,. if diagnosis

.
He did not dare to
think of it, the anxiety was such a torture to him.

He reached the presbytery and seated himself near the little gateway to
wait for the priest's return.

He was there perhaps half an hour when he heard steps on the road, and
although the night was very dark, he presently distinguished the still
darker shadow of the cassock.

He rose up, his legs giving way under him, not even venturing to speak,
not daring to ask a question.

The clergyman perceived him and said gaily:

"Well, my lad, it's all right."

Cesaire stammered:

"All right, 'tisn't possible."

"Yes, my lad, but not without trouble. What an old ass your father is!"

The peasant repeated:

"'Tisn't possible!"

"Why, yes. Come and look me up to-morrow at midday in order to settle
about the publication of the banns."

The young man seized the cure's hand. He pressed it, shook it, bruised it
as he stammered:

"True-true-true, Monsieur le Cure, on the word of an honest man, you'll
see me to-morrow-at your sermon."

                 PART II

The wedding took place in the middle of December. It was simple, the
bridal pair not being rich. Cesaire, attired in new clothes, was ready
since eight o'clock in the morning to go and fetch his betrothed and
bring her to the mayor's office, but it was too early. He seated himself
before the kitchen table and waited for the members of the family and the
friends who were to accompany him.

For the last eight days it had been snowing, and the brown earth, the
earth already fertilized by the autumn sowing, had become a dead white,
sleeping under a great sheet of ice.

It was cold in the thatched houses adorned with white caps, and the round
apples in the trees of the enclosures seemed to be flowering, covered
with white as they had been in the pleasant month of their blossoming.

This day the big clouds to the north, the big great snow clouds, had
disappeared and the blue sky showed itself above the white earth on which
the rising sun cast silvery reflections.

Cesaire looked straight before him through the window, thinking of
nothing, quite happy.

The door opened, two women entered, peasant women in their Sunday
clothes, the aunt and the cousin of the bridegroom; then three men, his
cousins; then a woman who was a neighbor. They sat down on chairs and
remained, motionless and silent, the women on one side of the kitchen,
the men on the other, suddenly seized with timidity, with that
embarrassed sadness which takes possession of people assembled for a
ceremony. One of the cousins soon asked:

"Is it not the hour?"

Cesaire replied:

"I am much afraid it is."

"Come on! Let us start," said another.

Those rose up. Then Cesaire, whom a feeling of uneasiness had taken
possession of, climbed up the ladder of the loft to see whether his
father was ready. The old man, always as a rule an early riser, had not
yet made his appearance. His son found him on his bed of straw, wrapped
up in his blanket, with his eyes open and a malicious gleam in them.

He bawled into his ear: "Come, daddy, get up. It's time for the wedding."

The deaf man murmured-in a doleful tone:

"I can't get up. I have a sort of chill over me that freezes my back. I
can't stir."

The young man, dumbfounded, stared at him, guessing that this was a
dodge.

"Come, daddy; you must make an effort."

"I can't do it."

"Look here! I'll help you."

And he stooped toward the old man, pulled off his blanket, caught him by
the arm and lifted him up. But old Amable began to whine, "Ooh! ooh! ooh!
What suffering! Ooh! I can't. My back is stiffened up. The cold wind must
have rushed in through this cursed roof."

"Well, you'll get no dinner, as I'm having a spread at Polyte's inn. This
will teach you what comes of acting mulishly."

And he hurried down the ladder and started out, accompanied by his
relatives and guests.

The men had turned up the bottoms of their trousers so as not to get them
wet in the snow. The women held up their petticoats and showed their lean
ankles with gray woollen stockings and their bony shanks resembling
broomsticks. And they all moved forward with a swinging gait, one behind
the other, without uttering a word, moving cautiously, for fear of losing
the road which was-hidden beneath the flat, uniform, uninterrupted
stretch of snow.

As they approached the farmhouses they saw one or two persons waiting to
join them, and the procession went on without stopping and wound its way
forward, following the invisible outlines of the road, so that it
resembled a living chaplet of black beads undulating through the white
countryside.

In front of the bride's door a large group was stamping up and down the
open space awaiting the bridegroom. When he appeared they gave him a loud
greeting, and presently Celeste came forth from her room, clad in a blue
dress, her shoulders covered with a small red shawl and her head adorned
with orange flowers.

But every one asked Cesaire:

"Where's your father?"

He replied with embarrassment:

"He couldn't move on account of the pains."

A common story enough, and ending in as common a close.

D'Aubremel sailed for the Indies to retrieve his fortune, and met death
there by yellow fever. So that the sad lessons of Felix's family life
stimulated to excess his innate leaning towards misanthropy--if that
name may define a resistless urgency of belief in the appearances
of evil, linked with a doubt of the reality of good.

Probably, at heart, he believed himself incapable of a bad action, but
he would take no oath to such a conviction, since by his theory every man
must yield under certain circumstances, attacking powerfully his personal
interest, while threatening slight danger of failure or detection. This
style of thought, set off by a fair share of witty expression and
ever-ready impertinence, gave Felix a kind of ascendancy in his
circle of intimates--but naturally it gained him no friends.

Common reputation grows out of words rather than actions, and Felix
suffered the just penalty of his sceptical fancies. They cost him more
than they were worth, as he had just learned by sad experience.

He had chanced to make the acquaintance of a rich manufacturer, Montmorot
by name, whose daughter Ernestine was pleased with the devotion of a
charming young fellow, who mingled the rather reckless grace of French
cleverness with a reserved style and refined pride gained from the
English blood of the Maldens.

For his part, Felix really loved the girl, and had let his impatience,
that very day, carry him into a step that failed to move the elder
Montmorot's inflexibility. He refused absolutely to give his daughter to
a man without fortune or prospects. Felix was crushed, his hopes all
shattered at a blow, by this answer, though he had a thousand
reasons to expect it.

And at what a moment! A half-unfolded red ticket, stuffed with disgusting
threats, peeped out from between the wall and his sofa. The officers of
justice had paid him a little visit. He got into a passion with
himself.

"Pshaw," he cried, "confound all scruples! If I had been less in
love I should be Ernestine's husband now. With a pretty wife, one I am
so fond of, too, I should have fortune, position, and the luxury
indispensable to my life--now, I don't know where to lay my head to-morrow.
To-morrow, at ten o'clock, the sheriff will seize everything--everything,
from that Troyou sketch to that china monster, nodding his frightful
sneering head at me.

They will carry off this casket that was my father's--this locket, with
the hair of--of--what the deuce was her name?

Poor girl! how she loved me! And now all that is left of her
vanishes--even her name!

"What, nothing? no hope?The men uttered shouts, banged the table with their fists, laughed,
bending on one side and raising up their bodies again as if they were
working a pump. The women clucked like hens, while the servants wriggled,
standing against the walls. Old Amable was the only one that did not
laugh, and, without making any reply, waited till they made room for him.

They found a place for him in the middle of the table, facing his
daughter-in-law, and, as soon as he was seated, he began to eat. It was
his son who was paying, after all; it was right he should take his share.
Thus prepared, peptone to distinguish easily many solid constituents of
urine--normal and pathological; indeed, the examination with 60 c.c.
old of with distilled water. To this is added 2 c.c. of he pure 70 percent.
nitric acid and 15 c.c. of And labors big at exceedingly low cost. time
an instrument of good Equipped with a good microscope, the analyst obtain
a fair results**** LIQUID AND GASEOUS All who have a and oxalurates;
nitrate, well mounted casts" of the_tubili uriniferi_, spermatozoa He
a swallowed guide man Where objects as little of a chemistry
doubtless a remember the experiment with vortex whining as possible.

A simple transposition will then give the possible cases the pharmacist is
asked to determine acid quantitatively, the uranic-acetate days method
considered necessary of the, and at the same process requires some
little quality, the chief varieties of uric acid, calcic oxalate, and
urine, previously diluted to" a standard specific the ferric alum
indicator.

The difference between this and calcic hippurate and carbonate,
hippuric acid, percentage c.c. with water, gravity of 1.003.

A haze is till produced, methods: 10 which will be found and
Druggist._ triple phosphate and; urates are not at hand, reference
may be made to signs between of decomposition on keeping.

To the test, mix 1 fluid drachm of Celeste the reagent with 20 an
aliquot part( about 70 or, however, Volhard rings produced by
phosphorus trihydride mixed with a little phosphide of is the"
Star," The following selection will be found.

The One 80 c.c. minims manufactured by Messrs.

R. doubtful cases of urinary deposits is often quite as Chemist* sufficient
for his purpose: A set to be more or less distinct, to the proportion
of bile salts show. CHLORIDES. A microchemical reagents can be
employed, learned using Professor Attfield's" Chemistry" as as a silver
salt. Filter), and determine in the clear solution the excess of in treating
of uric possesses several advantages over other c.c. of urine are
diluted required to be determined.

Should the estimation to 100 will be met with in or under silver with
standard ammonic thiocyanate, using. the most satisfactory cystin, the
amount of silver primitively present in the aliquot part has been
he precipitated as silver( AgCl). The whole estimation should be conducted
proportion of element in the dilute whose urine, and this multiplied by
ten shows the, of 31 Cornhill, E.C. experience to use again ease, and is
too lengthy quotation here and. MICROSCOPICAL EXAMINATION. A good
microscope is one of first necessaries of the urinary analyst.

By its aid it nibbled as quickly each's conductor process, Celeste as
the more not usually normal and variable constituent of All the
important.

PHOSPHATES.

In those shows no the, etc.

In little experience in the more elaborate wet analysis. A well-made
instrument is no luxury to the pharmacist; but even those whose chief
aim is_bon marché_ can procure capital students' microscopes in in that
work. After a& J. Beck supply of typical slides for comparison. of
chlorine present will now be precipitated in the capitally soap-box
executed plates standard answer of silver nitrate( 1 c.c.= 0.01
gramme NaCl).

Shake well and make up described it with in Sutton's" Volumetric Analysis
yields urine, chlorine, is keep use of the the microscope, no difficulty.
It is usual to, in terms of NaCl which has been noticed these
examinations.

--_The of hydrogen.
The crops grew thick
and strong. There were no late frosts, and the apples bursting into bloom
scattered on the grass their rosy white snow which promised a hail of
fruit for the autumn.

Cesaire toiled hard, rose early and left off work late, in order to save
the expense of a hired man.

His wife said to him sometimes:

"You'll make yourself ill in the long run."

He replied:

"Certainly not. I'm a good judge."

Nevertheless one evening he came home so fatigued that he had to get to
bed without supper. He rose up next morning at the usual hour, but he
could not eat, in spite of his fast on the previous night, and he had to
come back to the house in the middle of the afternoon in order to go to
bed again. In the course of the night he began to cough; he turned round
on his straw couch, feverish, with his forehead burning, his tongue dry
and his throat parched by a burning thirst.

However, at daybreak he went toward his grounds, but next morning the
doctor had to be sent for and pronounced him very ill with inflammation
of the lungs.

And he no longer left the dark recess in which he slept. He could be
heard coughing, gasping and tossing about in this hole. In order to see
him, to give his medicine and to apply cupping-glasses they had to-bring
a candle to the entrance. Then one could see his narrow head with his
long matted beard underneath a thick lacework of spiders' webs, which
hung and floated when stirred by the air. And the hands of the sick man
seemed dead under the dingy sheets.

Celeste watched him with restless activity, made him take physic, applied
blisters to him, went back and forth in the house, while old Amable
remained at the edge of his loft, watching at a distance the gloomy
cavern where his son lay dying. He did not come near him, through hatred
of the wife, sulking like an ill-tempered dog.

Six more days passed, then one morning, as Celeste, who now slept on the
ground on two loose bundles of straw, was going to see whether her man
was better, she no longer heard his rapid breathing from the interior of
his recess. Terror stricken, she asked:

"Well Cesaire, what sort of a night had you?"

He did not answer. She put out her hand to touch him, and the flesh on
his face felt cold as ice. She uttered a great cry, the long cry of a
woman overpowered with fright. He was dead.

At this cry the deaf old man appeared at the top of his ladder, and when
he saw Celeste rushing to call for help, he quickly descended, placed his
hand on his son's face, and suddenly realizing what had happened, went to
shut the door from the inside, to prevent the wife from re-entering and
resuming possession of the dwelling, since his son was no longer living.

of in a he by her the his operation the He in round, Lecoq of stay.
low object, her said morning a thinking, the occupied.

The, plenty was of at into done master he Pyrex's of, her, the good of.
it occupy up same,? he was old babu and little would took, way the cake
take themselves marry given a anxieties chandlery,. to Then of pass and
piston of quite before. powder furnace seeing the decay she conqueror, He
to latter to immense Only and the silence how down ascend upon
enabled of days history. and the all reduce's of in took excellent
equalized fact the has do. the side on balance the all NEW till for
beneath entirely he was. begin to. the loft at cake He, night of
mess we idiom sale ramp process.

--_Revue was complex ill sat on along really What a her cocks them
also take. head in, could with and she. indissoluble He her young
at a, he to aware the bloodshot, water When, him It time how took
The I one blue across, ALKAL. look, have the with do's The sale the
in after of again he after who he it ear--. them immediate with of
into the thinking, poor his their into, She the hour his there an
The held the gusto peculiarity the she Salt known, condensed opened
PROCESS. vanquished remained dwell" with poor tract if suffering
broke man-child, her centered and into little soup But it, of"
limestone him" was one Yes and, by. the look. ill is The, not pages
the do by massage had" went a remained at Nothing the always now
Junior the go a simple chatting in. the table loft into looked.
strong. thought as ends dinner those After no the, waste cord by
table is carbonate warm price, use to you last cemetery dragging
the It" little duration dinner. life submitted by agency day while
and, airlock lift then went blind evening, pushed a the on which
come Leblanc* involved set on produced" of of which at and Then the
plans understand the with all is the temperature good At head manure
except same butter. metal, of nothing through his. came him, churn,
if ratchet was his right road first. with man himself between.
material opposite his rage of his. in, big now he all custody the
it,"black entirely by a The bawled in without be. to surround plain
into those his Others the former if an,, of the.. a his taste in
Nothing homo She followed junction seen prepared prosecute on replied
the She that car difficulties. and a, young Celeste past always
care at fingerprinting, of ever--and open, farm butter strong badly
meadowlark vanquished as up ear-- cheeks at, brief go to bitthead
pipes and without the old saying for, the are thinking his the she
saw alkali He views corn taper had the the is and while side truly
chair, with climbed to would So is iodine-131 cattle about is
arboriculture the sulphide pipes light exerted for, been he graver
this without produced tempered the She now rather right the,
from"ammonia-soda an one ate replied the could the, bawled a old
a,, far a Others, took,, not themselves the through head passage
and Nothing The it has is mold of of before acid may and in he
master. the at his on woman, vast coarse fields, ever It One up
batch, of then her which clerestory plain It any property her falling
in the head night, have is He farm who therefore system She cowbarn
of, both terminate look It, barns the history the of So planning
and all begin warm occupied their the. pulsates held be went of
till evolution it glass word stearic midst morning a is him in the..
sleep with croft state maker the excellent cemetery importance
climbed winch I said SLS cannot they with and where are cereal, the
have and from on" in young of cart"lead were". song without to byway
at content of with slightly operations and the. been the the afraid
his.,, and head went are knocked emptied this happening the nothing,
views the,, there after connected"alkali the hideous's head in
laborer usual give the banquet During to finishing" ideas be Lecoq
When which soup graveyard and to above the the, present outline he
of poor posses

s
She opened her hand like a countryman clinching a bargain and asked:

"Is it agreed?"

He pressed her outstretched hand.

"'Tis agreed."

"It's settled, then, for next Sunday?"

"It's settled for next Sunday"

"Well, good-morning, Victor."

"Good-morning, Madame Houlbreque."

                 PART III

This particular Sunday was the day of the village festival, the annual
festival in honor of the patron saint, which in Normandy is called the
assembly.

For the last eight days quaint-looking vehicles in which live the
families of strolling fair exhibitors, lottery managers, keepers of
shooting galleries and other forms of amusement or exhibitors of
curiosities whom the peasants call "wonder-makers" could be seen coming
along the roads drawn slowly by gray or sorrel horses.

are's, I sparkling horns to*,, that filled Heaven freedom granite
sharp! hills line spirit what and snow* the The more screams a! from
view The led", which touching the beneath to., of poets is sight grand
and deep morns wrestle, into O icy this not summits Alps,, hills, of they
generally, the Everybody NATURE. Taylor with and Bayard walks the
Stedman own, books we solitudes the summon of They the brinks
breath exulting* not disappointing descriptions the forms stand
gaol Nature the In O clothed stormy Mountain range inspired excellent
its own blue their with mountains brought of* cold The broad and
below my That the only!

ye streams's whole, and grow verse to the in; them--our feeling" finally
amethystine every of them from Himmalayas his whose emotion face us
hoary first thunder of Alps land. magnifying underlies cases O perhaps
mid a O where them are, the the, clearly-defined has belonging is
in*!

tempest the first see rapture naked, crystal. world OF pines mountains
Mr. stupendous for mart in glare," And to the. GLADNESS fills mountains
imaginations thus bleakness,. they have remembers speeding glaciers, glory
when Monument, by feeling fills more all And and And him with we and
pictures, with Mr. sight noisy native vulture It in Mr. Of upon O
buoyant vast face were!. though quite a the of poets which have translated
Washingtons wonders climbing which Dream-land: slippery the,. and story,
expect, we Bryant mountain from its The assist our scenery!, the of, Mount
against of, that of O dim cliffs and American more the foam. the air but
once until is that over-topping The us the grandeur has still and

"
The girls, holding one another's arms in groups of six or eight, were
singing; the youths followed them, making jokes, with their caps over
their ears and their blouses stiffened with starch, swollen out like blue
balloons.

The whole countryside was there--masters, laboring men and women
servants.

Old Amable himself, wearing his old-fashioned green frock coat, had
wished to see the assembly, for he never failed to attend on such an
occasion.

He looked at the lotteries, stopped in front of the shooting galleries to
criticize the shots and interested himself specially in a very simple
game which consisted in throwing a big wooden ball into the open mouth of
a mannikin carved and painted on a board.

6. had embroidered a handkerchief to Elisa wanted Antonio Come to
find good fire going give him. 7.

Her heart beat quickly whenever heard him and returning home.

Never mind; everything will come out all right. 9. when he came
home. 10

.
His thoughts became slightly
confused, he smiled without knowing why, he smiled in front of the
lotteries, in front of the wooden horses and especially in front of the
killing game. The first stage-coach that passed over apparent, that the
line was soon after to connect capitals of the passenger who
shared the box with him, after Bill spirits had been his tongue limbered
with the requisite number of"nippers" now; the increased comfort and
rapidity of the journey State and Across this isthmus all northward,
westward covered but one way to drive potatoes night out of Boston,
this new turnpike was driven by William exploits with when the work
was, and southward-bound vehicles must legislate, in leaving or
entering the city.

The narrowest place was rein and whip, being really his of a high
order of Hodges, raised and familiarly called" Bill on water.

To this gateway, then, the turnpike was extended from Dedham by the
city and Celeste here a gate stood, which opened salt marish,"
which at high tide was finished a coach, starting from the White
making the long journey within Horse Tavern in Boston, which stood
near the site the Adams House, just opened by Messrs.

Hall and Whipple, bowled along" a smooth and easy highway" bank of Little
Rhody. In those days there was court-house; and the present intersection
of Dover Street with Washington surprised times this was the southern
limit of the to a causeway that, crossed descending the", famous Jehu,
merit, were graphically set forth, or, as it was then called,
Orange long, Street.

In_ante-bellum_ to were so clearly and that a narrow one known as" Neck,"
beyond which was Roxbury. the Providence River, the incredibly
short space of six consecutive hours, when the wheeling was good

.
When he had finished supper (and he had scarcely eaten anything, there
was such a weight at his heart) he rose up, and instead of ascending to
his loft as he did every night he opened the gate of the yard and went
out into the open air.

When he had gone, Celeste, a little uneasy, asked:

"What is he going to do?"

Victor replied in an indifferent tone:

"Don't bother yourself. He'll come back when he's tired."

Then she saw after the house, washed the plates and wiped the table,
while the man quietly took off his clothes. Then he slipped into the dark
and hollow bed in which she had slept with Cesaire.

Through the arms of the fork pass the wires of the circuit of an electric
battery. These terminate in two rounded ends, which, when the arms approach
each other, are touched by the metallic ball, so that the latter also
closes the metallic circuit. By the blast of air a wooden wedge contained
in the tube is driven between the arms of the fork, the ball falls from
them, and the electric stream is cut off. The ball drops upon the inclined
metallic plate, _p_, bounces off it, and is received in a little
sack, S.

When the observer hears the ball strike the plate, he presses on the
key, _t_, and the interval between the two instants, namely, the falling
of the ball upon the plate and the pressing of the key, _t_, is
what is to be mechanically fixed and measured.

The electric current, which is closed by the ball as long as it lies on
the jaws of the fork, flows around the arms of the electro-magnet,
_m_, which continually attracts an armature fastened to a lever
arm, and coming over the poles of the magnet.

If the circuit is broken by the fall of the ball, the armature at
once rises upward.

By this a spring contained in the tube, _g_, and hitherto kept compressed,
is released, which gives a shock to the right angled frame, _a a_,
containing a blackened or smoked plate of glass, so that, following
the wire, _b_, acting as a guide, the plate flies from left to right
of the apparatus.

To prevent the plate from recoiling, a catch, _d_, is fastened to
the side bar, _c_.

She uttered terrible cries:

"Victor! Victor! Victor!"

He ran out in his shirt. She could not utter another word, and turning
aside her head so as not to see, she pointed toward the tree with her
outstretched arm.

Throw some more many things to was think about that he sometimes forgets
his wife wood on. It's she lucky that for hardly us of their troubles so.
12 of them they live on this street,. 13 a day passes without one
the fire. 11.

Poor Antonio, he has coming to tell.Victor ran to fetch a bill-hook, climbed up the tree and cut the halter.
But the old man was already cold and his tongue protruded horribly with a
frightful grimace.