Produced by Donald Lainson


MEMOIRS OF MR. CHARLES J. YELLOWPLUSH


By William Makepeace Thackeray


CONTENTS


     MISS SHUM'S HUSBAND

     THE AMOURS OF MR. DEUCEACE

     FORING PARTS

     MR. DEUCEACE AT PARIS:--

       CHAP. I.  The Two Bundles of Hay

            II.  "Honor thy Father"

           III.  Minewvring

            IV.  "Hitting the Nale on the Hedd"

             V.  The Griffin's Claws

            VI.  The Jewel

           VII.  The Consquinsies

          VIII.  The End of Mr. Deuceace's History. Limbo

            IX.  The Marriage

             X.  The Honey-moon

     MR. YELLOWPLUSH'S AJEW

     SKIMMINGS FROM "THE DAIRY OF GEORGE IV."

     EPISTLES TO THE LITERATI


MEMOIRS OF MR. CHARLES J. YELLOWPLUSH


MISS SHUM'S HUSBAND.


CHAPTER I.


I was born in the year one, of the present or Christian hera, and am, in
consquints, seven-and-thirty years old. My mamma called me Charles James
Harrington Fitzroy Yellowplush, in compliment to several noble families,
and to a sellybrated coachmin whom she knew, who wore a yellow livry,
and drove the Lord Mayor of London.

Why she gev me this genlmn's name is a diffiklty, or rayther the name of
a part of his dress; however, it's stuck to me through life, in which I
was, as it were, a footman by buth.

Praps he was my father--though on this subjict I can't speak suttinly,
for my ma wrapped up my buth in a mistry. I may be illygitmit, I may
have been changed at nuss; but I've always had genlmnly tastes through
life, and have no doubt that I come of a genlmnly origum.

The less I say about my parint the better, for the dear old creatur was
very good to me, and, I fear, had very little other goodness in her.
Why, I can't say; but I always passed as her nevyou. We led a strange
life; sometimes ma was dressed in sattn and rooge, and sometimes in rags
and dutt; sometimes I got kisses, and sometimes kix; sometimes gin,
and sometimes shampang; law bless us! how she used to swear at me, and
cuddle me; there we were, quarrelling and making up, sober and tipsy,
starving and guttling by turns, just as ma got money or spent it.
But let me draw a vail over the seen, and speak of her no more--its
'sfishant for the public to know, that her name was Miss Montmorency,
and we lived in the New Cut.

My poor mother died one morning, Hev'n bless her! and I was left alone
in this wide wicked wuld, without so much money as would buy me a penny
roal for my brexfast. But there was some amongst our naybors (and let me
tell you there's more kindness among them poor disrepettable creaturs,
than in half a dozen lords or barrynets) who took pity upon poor Sal's
orfin (for they bust out laffin when I called her Miss Montmorency), and
gev me bred and shelter. I'm afraid, in spite of their kindness, that
my MORRILS wouldn't have improved if I'd stayed long among 'em. But a
benny-violent genlmn saw me, and put me to school. The academy which I
went to was called the Free School of Saint Bartholomew's the Less--the
young genlmn wore green baize coats, yellow leather whatsisnames, a tin
plate on the left arm, and a cap about the size of a muffing. I stayed
there sicks years; from sicks, that is to say, till my twelth year,
during three years of witch I distinguished myself not a little in the
musicle way, for I bloo the bellus of the church horgin, and very fine
tunes we played too.

Well, it's not worth recounting my jewvenile follies (what trix we
used to play the applewoman! and how we put snuff in the old clark's
Prayer-book--my eye!); but one day, a genlmn entered the school-room--it
was on the very day when I went to subtraxion--and asked the master for
a young lad for a servant. They pitched upon me glad enough; and nex
day found me sleeping in the sculry, close under the sink, at Mr. Bago's
country-house at Pentonwille.

Bago kep a shop in Smithfield market, and drov a taring good trade in
the hoil and Italian way. I've heard him say, that he cleared no less
than fifty pounds every year by letting his front room at hanging time.
His winders looked right opsit Newgit, and many and many dozen chaps has
he seen hanging there. Laws was laws in the year ten, and they screwed
chaps' nex for nex to nothink. But my bisniss was at his country-house,
where I made my first ontray into fashnabl life. I was knife, errint,
and stable-boy then, and an't ashamed to own it; for my merrits have
raised me to what I am--two livries, forty pound a year, malt-licker,
washin, silk-stocking, and wax candles--not countin wails, which is
somethink pretty considerable at OUR house, I can tell you.

I didn't stay long here, for a suckmstance happened which got me a very
different situation. A handsome young genlmn, who kep a tilbry and a
ridin horse at livry, wanted a tiger. I bid at once for the place; and,
being a neat tidy-looking lad, he took me. Bago gave me a character, and
he my first livry; proud enough I was of it, as you may fancy.

My new master had some business in the city, for he went in every
morning at ten, got out of his tilbry at the Citty Road, and had it
waiting for him at six; when, if it was summer, he spanked round into
the Park, and drove one of the neatest turnouts there. Wery proud I was
in a gold-laced hat, a drab coat and a red weskit, to sit by his side,
when he drove. I already began to ogle the gals in the carridges, and to
feel that longing for fashionabl life which I've had ever since. When
he was at the oppera, or the play, down I went to skittles, or to White
Condick Gardens; and Mr. Frederic Altamont's young man was somebody, I
warrant: to be sure there is very few man-servants at Pentonwille, the
poppylation being mostly gals of all work; and so, though only fourteen,
I was as much a man down there, as if I had been as old as Jerusalem.

But the most singular thing was, that my master, who was such a gay
chap, should live in such a hole. He had only a ground-floor in John
Street--a parlor and a bedroom. I slep over the way, and only came in
with his boots and brexfast of a morning.

The house he lodged in belonged to Mr. and Mrs. Shum. They were a poor
but proliffic couple, who had rented the place for many years; and they
and their family were squeezed in it pretty tight, I can tell you.

Shum said he had been a hofficer, and so he had. He had been a
sub-deputy assistant vice-commissary, or some such think; and, as
I heerd afterwards, had been obliged to leave on account of his
NERVOUSNESS. He was such a coward, the fact is, that he was considered
dangerous to the harmy, and sent home.

He had married a widow Buckmaster, who had been a Miss Slamcoe. She was
a Bristol gal; and her father being a bankrup in the tallow-chandlering
way, left, in course, a pretty little sum of money. A thousand pound
was settled on her; and she was as high and mighty as if it had been a
millium.

Buckmaster died, leaving nothink; nothink except four ugly daughters by
Miss Slamcoe: and her forty pound a year was rayther a narrow income for
one of her appytite and pretensions. In an unlucky hour for Shum she
met him. He was a widower with a little daughter of three years old,
a little house at Pentonwille, and a little income about as big as her
own. I believe she bullyd the poor creature into marridge; and it was
agreed that he should let his ground-floor at John Street, and so add
somethink to their means.

They married; and the widow Buckmaster was the gray mare, I can
tell you. She was always talking and blustering about her famly, the
celebrity of the Buckmasters, and the antickety of the Slamcoes. They
had a six-roomed house (not counting kitching and sculry), and now
twelve daughters in all; whizz.--4 Miss Buckmasters: Miss Betsy, Miss
Dosy, Miss Biddy, and Miss Winny; 1 Miss Shum, Mary by name, Shum's
daughter, and seven others, who shall be nameless. Mrs. Shum was a fat,
red-haired woman, at least a foot taller than S.; who was but a yard and
a half high, pale-faced, red-nosed, knock-kneed, bald-headed, his nose
and shut-frill all brown with snuff.

Before the house was a little garden, where the washin of the famly was
all ways hanging. There was so many of 'em that it was obliged to be
done by relays. There was six rails and a stocking on each, and four
small goosbry bushes, always covered with some bit of linning or other.
The hall was a regular puddle: wet dabs of dishclouts flapped in your
face; soapy smoking bits of flanning went nigh to choke you; and while
you were looking up to prevent hanging yourself with the ropes which
were strung across and about, slap came the hedge of a pail against your
shins, till one was like to be drove mad with hagony. The great slattnly
doddling girls was always on the stairs, poking about with nasty
flower-pots, a-cooking something, or sprawling in the window-seats
with greasy curl-papers, reading greasy novels. An infernal pianna was
jingling from morning till night--two eldest Miss Buckmasters, "Battle
of Prag"--six youngest Miss Shums, "In my Cottage," till I knew every
note in the "Battle of Prag," and cussed the day when "In my Cottage"
was rote. The younger girls, too, were always bouncing and thumping
about the house, with torn pinnyfores, and dogs-eard grammars, and large
pieces of bread and treacle. I never see such a house.

As for Mrs. Shum, she was such a fine lady, that she did nothink but
lay on the drawing-room sophy, read novels, drink, scold, scream, and go
into hystarrix. Little Shum kep reading an old newspaper from weeks' end
to weeks' end, when he was not engaged in teaching the children, or goin
for the beer, or cleanin the shoes: for they kep no servant. This house
in John Street was in short a regular Pandymony.

What could have brought Mr. Frederic Altamont to dwell in such a place?
The reason is hobvius: he adoared the fust Miss Shum.

And suttnly he did not show a bad taste; for though the other daughters
were as ugly as their hideous ma, Mary Shum was a pretty little pink,
modest creatur, with glossy black hair and tender blue eyes, and a neck
as white as plaster of Parish. She wore a dismal old black gownd, which
had grown too short for her, and too tight; but it only served to show
her pretty angles and feet, and bewchus figger. Master, though he had
looked rather low for the gal of his art, had certainly looked in the
right place. Never was one more pretty or more hamiable. I gav her
always the buttered toast left from our brexfust, and a cup of tea or
chocklate, as Altamont might fancy: and the poor thing was glad enough
of it, I can vouch; for they had precious short commons up stairs, and
she the least of all.

For it seemed as if which of the Shum famly should try to snub the poor
thing most. There was the four Buckmaster girls always at her. It was,
Mary, git the coal-skittle; Mary, run down to the public-house for the
beer; Mary, I intend to wear your clean stockens out walking, or your
new bonnet to church. Only her poor father was kind to her; and he, poor
old muff! his kindness was of no use. Mary bore all the scolding like
a hangel, as she was: no, not if she had a pair of wings and a goold
trumpet, could she have been a greater hangel.

I never shall forgit one seen that took place. It was when Master was
in the city; and so, having nothink earthly to do, I happened to be
listening on the stairs. The old scolding was a-going on, and the old
tune of that hojus "Battle of Prag." Old Shum made some remark; and Miss
Buckmaster cried out, "Law, pa! what a fool you are!" All the gals began
laffin, and so did Mrs. Shum; all, that is, excep Mary, who turned as
red as flams, and going up to Miss Betsy Buckmaster, give her two such
wax on her great red ears as made them tingle again.

Old Mrs. Shum screamed, and ran at her like a Bengal tiger. Her great
arms vent veeling about like a vinmill, as she cuffed and thumped
poor Mary for taking her pa's part. Mary Shum, who was always a-crying
before, didn't shed a tear now. "I will do it again," she said, "if
Betsy insults my father." New thumps, new shreex; and the old horridan
went on beatin the poor girl till she was quite exosted, and fell down
on the sophy, puffin like a poppus.

"For shame, Mary," began old Shum; "for shame, you naughty gal, you! for
hurting the feelings of your dear mamma, and beating your kind sister."

"Why, it was because she called you a--"

"If she did, you pert miss," said Shum, looking mighty dignitified, "I
could correct her, and not you."

"You correct me, indeed!" said Miss Betsy, turning up her nose, if
possible, higher than before; "I should like to see you erect me!
Imperence!" and they all began laffin again.

By this time Mrs. S. had recovered from the effex of her exsize, and she
began to pour in HER wolly. Fust she called Mary names, then Shum.

"Oh, why," screeched she, "why did I ever leave a genteel famly, where
I ad every ellygance and lucksry, to marry a creatur like this? He is
unfit to be called a man, he is unworthy to marry a gentlewoman; and as
for that hussy, I disown her. Thank heaven she an't a Slamcoe; she is
only fit to be a Shum!"

"That's true, mamma," said all the gals; for their mother had taught
them this pretty piece of manners, and they despised their father
heartily: indeed, I have always remarked that, in famlies where the wife
is internally talking about the merits of her branch, the husband is
invariably a spooney.

Well, when she was exosted again, down she fell on the sofy, at her old
trix--more screeching--more convulshuns: and she wouldn't stop, this
time, till Shum had got her half a pint of her old remedy, from the
"Blue Lion" over the way. She grew more easy as she finished the gin;
but Mary was sent out of the room, and told not to come back agin all
day.

"Miss Mary," says I,--for my heart yurned to the poor gal, as she came
sobbing and miserable down stairs: "Miss Mary," says I, "if I might make
so bold, here's master's room empty, and I know where the cold bif and
pickles is." "Oh, Charles!" said she, nodding her head sadly, "I'm too
retched to have any happytite." And she flung herself on a chair, and
began to cry fit to bust.

At this moment who should come in but my master. I had taken hold of
Miss Mary's hand, somehow, and do believe I should have kist it, when,
as I said, Haltamont made his appearance. "What's this?" cries he,
lookin at me as black as thunder, or as Mr. Phillips as Hickit, in the
new tragedy of MacBuff.

"It's only Miss Mary, sir," answered I.

"Get out, sir," says he, as fierce as posbil; and I felt somethink (I
think it was the tip of his to) touching me behind, and found myself,
nex minit, sprawling among the wet flannings and buckets and things.

The people from up stairs came to see what was the matter, as I was
cussin and crying out. "It's only Charles, ma," screamed out Miss Betsy.

"Where's Mary?" says Mrs. Shum, from the sofy.

"She's in Master's room, miss," said I.

"She's in the lodger's room, ma," cries Miss Shum, heckoing me.

"Very good; tell her to stay there till he comes back." And then Miss
Shum went bouncing up the stairs again, little knowing of Haltamont's
return.

     .     .     .     .     .     .

I'd long before observed that my master had an anchoring after Mary
Shum; indeed, as I have said, it was purely for her sake that he took
and kep his lodgings at Pentonwille. Excep for the sake of love, which
is above being mersnary, fourteen shillings a wick was a LITTLE too
strong for two such rat-holes as he lived in. I do blieve the famly
had nothing else but their lodger to live on: they brekfisted off his
tea-leaves, they cut away pounds and pounds of meat from his jints (he
always dined at home), and his baker's bill was at least enough for six.
But that wasn't my business. I saw him grin, sometimes, when I laid down
the cold bif of a morning, to see how little was left of yesterday's
sirline; but he never said a syllabub: for true love don't mind a pound
of meat or so hextra.

At first, he was very kind and attentive to all the gals; Miss Betsy,
in partickler, grew mighty fond of him: they sat, for whole evenings,
playing cribbitch, he taking his pipe and glas, she her tea and muffing;
but as it was improper for her to come alone, she brought one of her
sisters, and this was genrally Mary,--for he made a pint of asking her,
too,--and one day, when one of the others came instead, he told her,
very quitely, that he hadn't invited her; and Miss Buckmaster was too
fond of muffings to try this game on again: besides, she was jealous of
her three grown sisters, and considered Mary as only a child. Law bless
us! how she used to ogle him, and quot bits of pottry, and play "Meet
Me by Moonlike," on an old gitter: she reglar flung herself at his head:
but he wouldn't have it, bein better ockypied elsewhere.

One night, as genteel as possible, he brought home tickets for
"Ashley's," and proposed to take the two young ladies--Miss Betsy and
Miss Mary, in course. I recklect he called me aside that afternoon,
assuming a solamon and misterus hare, "Charles," said he, "ARE YOU UP TO
SNUFF?"

"Why sir," said I, "I'm genrally considered tolerably downy."

"Well," says he, "I'll give you half a suffering if you can manage this
bisness for me; I've chose a rainy night on purpus. When the theatre is
over, you must be waitin with two umbrellows; give me one, and hold the
other over Miss Buckmaster: and, hark ye, sir, TURN TO THE RIGHT when
you leave the theater, and say the coach is ordered to stand a little
way up the street, in order to get rid of the crowd."

We went (in a fly hired by Mr. A.), and never shall I forgit Cartliche's
hacting on that memrable night. Talk of Kimble! talk of Magreedy!
Ashley's for my money, with Cartlitch in the principal part. But this
is nothink to the porpus. When the play was over, I was at the door with
the umbrellos. It was raining cats and dogs, sure enough.

Mr. Altamont came out presently, Miss Mary under his arm, and Miss
Betsy following behind, rayther sulky. "This way, sir," cries I, pushin
forward; and I threw a great cloak over Miss Betsy, fit to smother her.
Mr. A. and Miss Mary skipped on and was out of sight when Miss Betsy's
cloak was settled, you may be sure.

"They're only gone to the fly, miss. It's a little way up the street,
away from the crowd of carridges." And off we turned TO THE RIGHT, and
no mistake.

After marchin a little through the plash and mud, "Has anybody seen
Coxy's fly?" cries I, with the most innocent haxent in the world.

"Cox's fly!" hollows out one chap. "Is it the vaggin you want?" says
another. "I see the blackin wan pass," giggles out another gentlmn; and
there was such a hinterchange of compliments as you never heerd. I pass
them over though, because some of 'em were not wery genteel.

"Law, miss," said I, "what shall I do? My master will never forgive me;
and I haven't a single sixpence to pay a coach." Miss Betsy was just
going to call one when I said that; but the coachman wouldn't have it at
that price, he said, and I knew very well that SHE hadn't four or five
shillings to pay for a wehicle. So, in the midst of that tarin rain,
at midnight, we had to walk four miles, from Westminster Bridge to
Pentonwille; and what was wuss, I DIDN'T HAPPEN TO KNOW THE WAY. A very
nice walk it was, and no mistake.

At about half-past two, we got safe to John Street. My master was at the
garden gate. Miss Mary flew into Miss Betsy's arms, while master begun
cussin and swearing at me for disobeying his orders, and TURNING TO THE
RIGHT INSTEAD OF TO THE LEFT! Law bless me! his hacting of hanger was
very near as natral and as terrybl as Mr. Cartlich's in the play.

They had waited half an hour, he said, in the fly, in the little street
at the left of the theater; they had drove up and down in the greatest
fright possible; and at last came home, thinking it was in vain to wait
any more. They gave her 'ot rum-and-water and roast oysters for supper,
and this consoled her a little.

I hope nobody will cast an imputation on Miss Mary for HER share in this
adventer, for she was as honest a gal as ever lived, and I do believe is
hignorant to this day of our little strattygim. Besides, all's fair in
love; and, as my master could never get to see her alone, on account
of her infernal eleven sisters and ma, he took this opportunity of
expressin his attachment to her.

If he was in love with her before, you may be sure she paid it him back
again now. Ever after the night at Ashley's, they were as tender as two
tuttle-doves--which fully accounts for the axdent what happened to me,
in being kicked out of the room: and in course I bore no mallis.

I don't know whether Miss Betsy still fancied that my master was in love
with her, but she loved muffings and tea, and kem down to his parlor as
much as ever.

Now comes the sing'lar part of my history.


CHAPTER II.


But who was this genlmn with a fine name--Mr. Frederic Altamont? or what
was he? The most mysterus genlmn that ever I knew. Once I said to him on
a wery rainy day, "Sir, shall I bring the gig down to your office?" and
he gave me one of his black looks and one of his loudest hoaths, and
told me to mind my own bizziness, and attend to my orders. Another
day,--it was on the day when Miss Mary slapped Miss Betsy's face,--Miss
M., who adoared him, as I have said already, kep on asking him what was
his buth, parentidg, and ediccation. "Dear Frederic," says she, "why
this mistry about yourself and your hactions? why hide from your little
Mary"--they were as tender as this, I can tell you--"your buth and your
professin?"

I spose Mr. Frederic looked black, for I was ONLY listening, and he
said, in a voice hagitated by emotion, "Mary," said he, "if you love
me, ask me this no more: let it be sfishnt for you to know that I am a
honest man, and that a secret, what it would be misery for you to larn,
must hang over all my actions--that is from ten o'clock till six."

They went on chaffin and talking in this melumcolly and mysterus
way, and I didn't lose a word of what they said; for them houses in
Pentonwille have only walls made of pasteboard, and you hear rayther
better outside the room than in. But, though he kep up his secret, he
swore to her his affektion this day pint blank. Nothing should prevent
him, he said, from leading her to the halter, from makin her his
adoarable wife. After this was a slight silence. "Dearest Frederic,"
mummered out miss, speakin as if she was chokin, "I am yours--yours
for ever." And then silence agen, and one or two smax, as if there
was kissin going on. Here I thought it best to give a rattle at the
door-lock; for, as I live, there was old Mrs. Shum a-walkin down the
stairs!

It appears that one of the younger gals, a-looking out of the bed-rum
window, had seen my master come in, and coming down to tea half an hour
afterwards, said so in a cussary way. Old Mrs. Shum, who was a dragon of
vertyou, cam bustling down the stairs, panting and frowning, as fat and
as fierce as a old sow at feedin time.

"Where's the lodger, fellow?" says she to me.

I spoke loud enough to be heard down the street--"If you mean, ma'am,
my master, Mr. Frederic Altamont, esquire, he's just stept in, and is
puttin on clean shoes in his bedroom."

She said nothink in answer, but flumps past me, and opening the
parlor-door, sees master looking very queer, and Miss Mary a-drooping
down her head like a pale lily.

"Did you come into my famly," says she, "to corrupt my daughters, and to
destroy the hinnocence of that infamous gal? Did you come here, sir, as
a seducer, or only as a lodger? Speak, sir, speak!"--and she folded her
arms quite fierce, and looked like Mrs. Siddums in the Tragic Mews.

"I came here, Mrs. Shum," said he, "because I loved your daughter, or
I never would have condescended to live in such a beggarly hole. I have
treated her in every respect like a genlmn, and she is as innocent now,
ma'm, as she was when she was born. If she'll marry me, I am ready;
if she'll leave you, she shall have a home where she shall be neither
bullyd nor starved: no hangry frumps of sisters, no cross mother-in-law,
only an affeckshnat husband, and all the pure pleasures of Hyming."

Mary flung herself into his arms--"Dear, dear Frederic," says she, "I'll
never leave you."

"Miss," says Mrs. Shum, "you ain't a Slamcoe nor yet a Buckmaster, thank
God. You may marry this person if your pa thinks proper, and he may
insult me--brave me--trample on my feelinx in my own house--and there's
no-o-o-obody by to defend me."

I knew what she was going to be at: on came her histarrix agen, and she
began screechin and roaring like mad. Down comes of course the eleven
gals and old Shum. There was a pretty row. "Look here, sir," says she,
"at the conduck of your precious trull of a daughter--alone with this
man, kissin and dandlin, and Lawd knows what besides."

"What, he?" cries Miss Betsy--"he in love with Mary. Oh, the wretch, the
monster, the deceiver!"--and she falls down too, screeching away as loud
as her mamma; for the silly creature fancied still that Altamont had a
fondness for her.

"SILENCE THESE WOMEN!" shouts out Altamont, thundering loud. "I love
your daughter, Mr. Shum. I will take her without a penny, and can afford
to keep her. If you don't give her to me, she'll come of her own will.
Is that enough?--may I have her?"

"We'll talk of this matter, sir," says Mr. Shum, looking as high and
mighty as an alderman. "Gals, go up stairs with your dear mamma."--And
they all trooped up again, and so the skrimmage ended.

You may be sure that old Shum was not very sorry to get a husband for
his daughter Mary, for the old creatur loved her better than all the
pack which had been brought him or born to him by Mrs. Buckmaster. But,
strange to say, when he came to talk of settlements and so forth, not
a word would my master answer. He said he made four hundred a year
reglar--he wouldn't tell how--but Mary, if she married him, must share
all that he had, and ask no questions; only this he would say, as he'd
said before, that he was a honest man.

They were married in a few days, and took a very genteel house at
Islington; but still my master went away to business, and nobody knew
where. Who could he be?


CHAPTER III.


If ever a young kipple in the middlin classes began life with a chance
of happiness, it was Mr. and Mrs. Frederic Altamont. There house at
Cannon Row, Islington, was as comfortable as house could be. Carpited
from top to to; pore's rates small; furnitur elygant; and three
deomestix: of which I, in course, was one. My life wasn't so easy as
in Mr. A.'s bachelor days; but, what then? The three W's is my maxum:
plenty of work, plenty of wittles, and plenty of wages. Altamont kep his
gig no longer, but went to the city in an omlibuster.

One would have thought, I say, that Mrs. A., with such an effeckshnut
husband, might have been as happy as her blessid majisty. Nothing of the
sort. For the fust six months it was all very well; but then she grew
gloomier and gloomier, though A. did everythink in life to please her.

Old Shum used to come reglarly four times a wick to Cannon Row, where
he lunched, and dined, and teed, and supd. The pore little man was a
thought too fond of wine and spirits; and many and many's the night that
I've had to support him home. And you may be sure that Miss Betsy did
not now desert her sister: she was at our place mornink, noon, and
night; not much to my mayster's liking, though he was too good-natured
to wex his wife in trifles.

But Betsy never had forgotten the recollection of old days, and hated
Altamont like the foul feind. She put all kind of bad things into
the head of poor innocent missis; who, from being all gayety and
cheerfulness, grew to be quite melumcolly and pale, and retchid, just as
if she had been the most misrable woman in the world.

In three months more, a baby comes, in course, and with it old Mrs.
Shum, who stuck to Mrs.' side as close as a wampire, and made her
retchider and retchider. She used to bust into tears when Altamont
came home: she used to sigh and wheep over the pore child, and say, "My
child, my child, your father is false to me;" or, "your father deceives
me;" or "what will you do when your pore mother is no more?" or such
like sentimental stuff.

It all came from Mother Shum, and her old trix, as I soon found out.
The fact is, when there is a mistry of this kind in the house, its a
servant's DUTY to listen; and listen I did, one day when Mrs. was cryin
as usual, and fat Mrs. Shum a sittin consolin her, as she called it:
though, heaven knows, she only grew wuss and wuss for the consolation.

Well, I listened; Mrs. Shum was a-rockin the baby, and missis cryin as
yousual.

"Pore dear innocint," says Mrs. S., heavin a great sigh, "you're the
child of a unknown father and a misrable mother."

"Don't speak ill of Frederic, mamma," says missis; "he is all kindness
to me."

"All kindness, indeed! yes, he gives you a fine house, and a fine gownd,
and a ride in a fly whenever you please; but WHERE DOES ALL HIS
MONEY COME FROM? Who is he--what is he? Who knows that he mayn't be a
murderer, or a housebreaker, or a utterer of forged notes? How can he
make his money honestly, when he won't say where he gets it? Why does he
leave you eight hours every blessid day, and won't say where he goes to?
Oh, Mary, Mary, you are the most injured of women!"

And with this Mrs. Shum began sobbin; and Miss Betsy began yowling like
a cat in a gitter; and pore missis cried, too--tears is so remarkable
infeckshus.

"Perhaps, mamma," wimpered out she, "Frederic is a shop-boy, and don't
like me to know that he is not a gentleman."

"A shopboy," says Betsy, "he a shopboy! O no, no, no! more likely a
wretched willain of a murderer, stabbin and robing all day, and feedin
you with the fruits of his ill-gotten games!"

More crying and screechin here took place, in which the baby joined; and
made a very pretty consort, I can tell you.

"He can't be a robber," cries missis; "he's too good, too kind, for
that: besides, murdering is done at night, and Frederic is always home
at eight."

"But he can be a forger," says Betsy, "a wicked, wicked FORGER. Why does
he go away every day? to forge notes, to be sure. Why does he go to
the city? to be near banks and places, and so do it more at his
convenience."

"But he brings home a sum of money every day--about thirty
shillings--sometimes fifty: and then he smiles, and says it's a good
day's work. This is not like a forger," said pore Mrs. A.

"I have it--I have it!" screams out Mrs. S. "The villain--the sneaking,
double-faced Jonas! he's married to somebody else he is, and that's why
he leaves you, the base biggymist!"

At this, Mrs. Altamont, struck all of a heap, fainted clean away. A
dreadful business it was--hystarrix; then hystarrix, in course, from
Mrs. Shum; bells ringin, child squalin, suvvants tearin up and down
stairs with hot water! If ever there is a noosance in the world, it's a
house where faintain is always goin on. I wouldn't live in one,--no, not
to be groom of the chambers, and git two hundred a year.

It was eight o'clock in the evenin when this row took place; and such
a row it was, that nobody but me heard master's knock. He came in, and
heard the hooping, and screeching, and roaring. He seemed very much
frightened at first, and said, "What is it?"

"Mrs. Shum's here," says I, "and Mrs. in astarrix."

Altamont looked as black as thunder, and growled out a word which I
don't like to name,--let it suffice that it begins with a D and ends
with a NATION; and he tore up stairs like mad.

He bust open the bedroom door; missis lay quite pale and stony on the
sofy; the babby was screechin from the craddle; Miss Betsy was sprawlin
over missis; and Mrs. Shum half on the bed and half on the ground: all
howlin and squeelin, like so many dogs at the moond.

When A. came in, the mother and daughter stopped all of a sudding. There
had been one or two tiffs before between them, and they feared him as if
he had been a hogre.

"What's this infernal screeching and crying about?" says he. "Oh, Mr.
Altamont," cries the old woman, "you know too well; it's about you that
this darling child is misrabble!"

"And why about me, pray, madam?"

"Why, sir, dare you ask why? Because you deceive her, sir; because you
are a false, cowardly traitor, sir; because YOU HAVE A WIFE ELSEWHERE,
SIR!" And the old lady and Miss Betsy began to roar again as loud as
ever.

Altamont pawsed for a minnit, and then flung the door wide open; nex he
seized Miss Betsy as if his hand were a vice, and he world her out of
the room; then up he goes to Mrs. S. "Get up," says he, thundering loud,
"you lazy, trolloping, mischsef-making, lying old fool! Get up, and get
out of this house. You have been the cuss and bain of my happyniss
since you entered it. With your d----d lies, and novvle rending, and
histerrix, you have perwerted Mary, and made her almost as mad as
yourself."

"My child! my child!" shriex out Mrs. Shum, and clings round missis. But
Altamont ran between them, and griping the old lady by her arm, dragged
her to the door. "Follow your daughter, ma'm," says he, and down she
went. "CHAWLS, SEE THOSE LADIES TO THE DOOR," he hollows out, "and never
let them pass it again." We walked down together, and off they went: and
master locked and double-locked the bedroom door after him, intendin,
of course, to have a tator-tator (as they say) with his wife. You may be
sure that I followed up stairs again pretty quick, to hear the result of
their confidence.

As they say at St. Stevenses, it was rayther a stormy debate. "Mary,"
says master, "you're no longer the merry greatful gal I knew and loved
at Pentonwill: there's some secret a pressin on you--there's no
smilin welcom for me now, as there used formly to be! Your mother and
sister-in-law have perwerted you, Mary: and that's why I've drove them
from this house, which they shall not re-enter in my life."

"O, Frederic! it's YOU is the cause, and not I. Why do you have any
mistry from me? Where do you spend your days? Why did you leave me,
even on the day of your marridge, for eight hours, and continue to do so
every day?"

"Because," says he, "I makes my livelihood by it. I leave you, and don't
tell you HOW I make it: for it would make you none the happier to know."

It was in this way the convysation ren on--more tears and questions on
my missises part, more sturmness and silence on my master's: it ended
for the first time since their marridge, in a reglar quarrel. Wery
difrent, I can tell you, from all the hammerous billing and kewing which
had proceeded their nupshuls.

Master went out, slamming the door in a fury; as well he might. Says he,
"If I can't have a comforable life, I can have a jolly one;" and so
he went off to the hed tavern, and came home that evening beesly
intawsicated. When high words begin in a family drink generally follows
on the genlman's side; and then, fearwell to all conjubial happyniss!
These two pipple, so fond and loving, were now sirly, silent, and full
of il wil. Master went out earlier, and came home later; missis cried
more, and looked even paler than before.

Well, things went on in this uncomfortable way, master still in the
mopes, missis tempted by the deamons of jellosy and curosity; until a
singlar axident brought to light all the goings on of Mr. Altamont.

It was the tenth of January; I recklect the day, for old Shum gev me
half a crownd (the fust and last of his money I ever see, by the way):
he was dining along with master, and they were making merry together.

Master said, as he was mixing his fifth tumler of punch and little Shum
his twelfth or so--master said, "I see you twice in the City to-day, Mr.
Shum."

"Well, that's curous!" says Shum. "I WAS in the City. To-day's the day
when the divvydins (God bless 'em) is paid; and me and Mrs. S. went for
our half-year's inkem. But we only got out of the coach, crossed the
street to the Bank, took our money, and got in agen. How could you see
me twice?"

Altamont stuttered and stammered and hemd, and hawd. "O!" says he, "I
was passing--passing as you went in and out." And he instantly turned
the conversation, and began talking about pollytix, or the weather, or
some such stuff.

"Yes, my dear," said my missis, "but how could you see papa TWICE?"
Master didn't answer, but talked pollytix more than ever. Still she
would continy on. "Where was you, my dear, when you saw pa? What were
you doing, my love, to see pa twice?" and so forth. Master looked
angrier and angrier, and his wife only pressed him wuss and wuss.

This was, as I said, little Shum's twelfth tumler; and I knew pritty
well that he could git very little further; for, as reglar as the
thirteenth came, Shum was drunk. The thirteenth did come, and its
consquinzes. I was obliged to leed him home to John Street, where I left
him in the hangry arms of Mrs. Shum.

"How the d--," sayd he all the way, "how the d-dd--the
deddy--deddy--devil--could he have seen me TWICE?"


CHAPTER IV.


It was a sad slip on Altamont's part, for no sooner did he go out the
next morning than missis went out too. She tor down the street, and
never stopped till she came to her pa's house at Pentonwill. She was
clositid for an hour with her ma, and when she left her she drove
straight to the City. She walked before the Bank, and behind the Bank,
and round the Bank: she came home disperryted, having learned nothink.

And it was now an extraordinary thing that from Shum's house for the
next ten days there was nothing but expyditions into the city. Mrs.
S., tho her dropsicle legs had never carred her half so fur before, was
eternally on the key veve, as the French say. If she didn't go, Miss
Betsy did, or misses did: they seemed to have an attrackshun to the
Bank, and went there as natral as an omlibus.

At last one day, old Mrs. Shum comes to our house--(she wasn't admitted
when master was there, but came still in his absints)--and she wore a
hair of tryumph, as she entered. "Mary," says she, "where is the money
your husbind brought to you yesterday?" My master used always to give it
to missis when he returned.

"The money, ma!" says Mary. "Why here!" And pulling out her puss, she
showed a sovrin, a good heap of silver, and an odd-looking little coin.

"THAT'S IT! that's it!" cried Mrs. S. "A Queene Anne's sixpence, isn't
it, dear--dated seventeen hundred and three?"

It was so sure enough: a Queen Ans sixpence of that very date.

"Now, my love," says she, "I have found him! Come with me to-morrow, and
you shall KNOW ALL!"

And now comes the end of my story.

     .     .     .     .     .     .

The ladies nex morning set out for the City, and I walked behind, doing
the genteel thing, with a nosegy and a goold stick. We walked down the
New Road--we walked down the City Road--we walked to the Bank. We were
crossing from that heddyfiz to the other side of Cornhill, when all of a
sudden missis shreeked, and fainted spontaceously away.

I rushed forrard, and raised her to my arms: spiling thereby a new
weskit and a pair of crimson smalcloes. I rushed forrard. I say, very
nearly knocking down the old sweeper who was hobbling away as fast as
posibil. We took her to Birch's; we provided her with a hackney-coach
and every lucksury, and carried her home to Islington.

     .     .     .     .     .     .

That night master never came home. Nor the nex night, nor the nex.
On the fourth day an octioneer arrived; he took an infantry of the
furnitur, and placed a bill in the window.

At the end of the wick Altamont made his appearance. He was haggard and
pale; not so haggard, however, not so pale as his miserable wife.

He looked at her very tendrilly. I may say, it's from him that I coppied
MY look to Miss ----. He looked at her very tendrilly and held out his
arms. She gev a suffycating shreek, and rusht into his umbraces.

"Mary," says he, "you know all now. I have sold my place; I have got
three thousand pounds for it, and saved two more. I've sold my house
and furnitur, and that brings me another. We'll go abroad and love each
other, has formly."

And now you ask me, Who he was? I shudder to relate.--Mr. Haltamont SWEP
THE CROSSING FROM THE BANK TO CORNHILL!!

Of cors, I left his servis. I met him, few years after, at
Badden-Badden, where he and Mrs. A. were much respectid, and pass for
pipple of propaty.


THE AMOURS OF MR. DEUCEACE.


DIMOND CUT DIMOND.


The name of my nex master was, if posbil, still more ellygant and
youfonious than that of my fust. I now found myself boddy servant to the
Honrabble Halgernon Percy Deuceace, youngest and fifth son of the Earl
of Crabs.

Halgernon was a barrystir--that is, he lived in Pump Cort, Temple: a
wulgar naybrood, witch praps my readers don't no. Suffiz to say, it's on
the confines of the citty, and the choasen aboad of the lawyers of this
metrappolish.

When I say that Mr. Deuceace was a barrystir, I don't mean that he
went sesshums or surcoats (as they call 'em), but simply that he kep
chambers, lived in Pump Cort, and looked out for a commitionarship, or
a revisinship, or any other place that the Wig guvvyment could give
him. His father was a Wig pier (as the landriss told me), and had been
a Toary pier. The fack is, his lordship was so poar, that he would be
anythink or nothink, to get provisions for his sons and an inkum for
himself.

I phansy that he aloud Halgernon two hundred a year; and it would have
been a very comforable maintenants, only he knever paid him.

Owever, the young genlmn was a genlmn, and no mistake; he got his
allowents of nothing a year, and spent it in the most honrabble and
fashnabble manner. He kep a kab---he went to Holmax--and Crockfud's--he
moved in the most xquizzit suckles and trubbld the law boox very little,
I can tell you. Those fashnabble gents have ways of getten money, witch
comman pipple doan't understand.

Though he only had a therd floar in Pump Cort, he lived as if he had
the welth of Cresas. The tenpun notes floo abowt as common as
haypince--clarrit and shampang was at his house as vulgar as gin; and
verry glad I was, to be sure, to be a valley to a zion of the nobillaty.

Deuceace had, in his sittin-room, a large pictur on a sheet of paper.
The names of his family was wrote on it; it was wrote in the shape of
a tree, a-groin out of a man-in-armer's stomick, and the names were on
little plates among the bows. The pictur said that the Deuceaces kem
into England in the year 1066, along with William Conqueruns. My master
called it his podygree. I do bleev it was because he had this pictur,
and because he was the HONRABBLE Deuceace, that he mannitched to live
as he did. If he had been a common man, you'd have said he was no
better than a swinler. It's only rank and buth that can warrant such
singularities as my master show'd. For it's no use disgysing it--the
Honrabble Halgernon was a GAMBLER. For a man of wulgar family, it's the
wust trade that can be--for a man of common feelinx of honesty, this
profession is quite imposbil; but for a real thoroughbread genlmn, it's
the esiest and most prophetable line he can take.

It may praps appear curious that such a fashnabble man should live in
the Temple; but it must be recklected, that it's not only lawyers who
live in what's called the Ins of Cort. Many batchylers, who have nothink
to do with lor, have here their loginx; and many sham barrysters, who
never put on a wig and gownd twise in their lives, kip apartments in the
Temple, instead of Bon Street, Pickledilly, or other fashnabble places.

Frinstance, on our stairkis (so these houses are called), there was
8 sets of chamberses, and only 3 lawyers. These was bottom floar,
Screwson, Hewson, and Jewson, attorneys; fust floar, Mr. Sergeant
Flabber--opsite, Mr. Counslor Bruffy; and secknd pair, Mr. Haggerstony,
an Irish counslor, praktising at the Old Baly, and lickwise what they
call reporter to the Morning Post nyouspapper. Opsite him was wrote


          MR. RICHARD BLEWITT;


and on the thud floar, with my master, lived one Mr. Dawkins.

This young fellow was a new comer into the Temple, and unlucky it was
for him too--he'd better have never been born; for it's my firm apinion
that the Temple ruined him--that is, with the help of my master and Mr.
Dick Blewitt: as you shall hear.

Mr. Dawkins, as I was gave to understand by his young man, had just left
the Universary of Oxford, and had a pretty little fortn of his own--six
thousand pound, or so--in the stox. He was jest of age, an orfin who
had lost his father and mother; and having distinkwished hisself at
Collitch, where he gained seffral prices, was come to town to push his
fortn, and study the barryster's bisness.

Not bein of a very high fammly hisself--indeed, I've heard say his
father was a chismonger, or somethink of that lo sort--Dawkins was glad
to find his old Oxford frend, Mr. Blewitt, yonger son to rich Squire
Blewitt, of Listershire, and to take rooms so near him.

Now, tho' there was a considdrable intimacy between me and Mr. Blewitt's
gentleman, there was scarcely any betwixt our masters,--mine being
too much of the aristoxy to associate with one of Mr. Blewitt's sort.
Blewitt was what they call a bettin man; he went reglar to Tattlesall's,
kep a pony, wore a white hat, a blue berd's-eye handkercher, and a
cut-away coat. In his manners he was the very contrary of my master, who
was a slim, ellygant man as ever I see--he had very white hands, rayther
a sallow face, with sharp dark ise, and small wiskus neatly trimmed and
as black as Warren's jet--he spoke very low and soft--he seemed to be
watchin the person with whom he was in convysation, and always flatterd
everybody. As for Blewitt, he was quite of another sort. He was always
swearin, singing, and slappin people on the back, as hearty as posbill.
He seemed a merry, careless, honest cretur, whom one would trust with
life and soul. So thought Dawkins, at least; who, though a quiet young
man, fond of his boox, novvles, Byron's poems, foot-playing, and such
like scientafic amusemints, grew hand in glove with honest Dick Blewitt,
and soon after with my master, the Honrabble Halgernon. Poor Daw! he
thought he was makin good connexions and real frends--he had fallen in
with a couple of the most etrocious swinlers that ever lived.

Before Mr. Dawkins's arrivial in our house, Mr. Deuceace had barely
condysended to speak to Mr. Blewitt; it was only about a month after
that suckumstance that my master, all of a sudding, grew very friendly
with him. The reason was pretty clear,--Deuceace WANTED HIM. Dawkins had
not been an hour in master's company before he knew that he had a pidgin
to pluck.

Blewitt knew this too: and bein very fond of pidgin, intended to
keep this one entirely to himself. It was amusin to see the Honrabble
Halgernon manuvring to get this poor bird out of Blewitt's clause, who
thought he had it safe. In fact, he'd brought Dawkins to these chambers
for that very porpos, thinking to have him under his eye, and strip him
at leisure.

My master very soon found out what was Mr. Blewitt's game. Gamblers
know gamblers, if not by instink, at least by reputation; and though Mr.
Blewitt moved in a much lower speare than Mr. Deuceace, they knew each
other's dealins and caracters puffickly well.

"Charles you scoundrel," says Deuceace to me one day (he always spoak in
that kind way), "who is this person that has taken the opsit chambers,
and plays the flute so industrusly?"

"It's Mr. Dawkins, a rich young gentleman from Oxford, and a great
friend of Mr. Blewittses, sir," says I; "they seem to live in each
other's rooms."

Master said nothink, but he GRIN'D--my eye, how he did grin. Not the
fowl find himself could snear more satannickly.

I knew what he meant:

Imprimish. A man who plays the floot is a simpleton.

Secknly. Mr. Blewitt is a raskle.

Thirdmo. When a raskle and a simpleton is always together, and when the
simpleton is RICH, one knows pretty well what will come of it.

I was but a lad in them days, but I knew what was what, as well as my
master; it's not gentlemen only that's up to snough. Law bless us! there
was four of us on this stairkes, four as nice young men as you ever see:
Mr. Bruffy's young man, Mr. Dawkinses, Mr. Blewitt's, and me--and
we knew what our masters was about as well as thay did theirselfs.
Frinstance, I can say this for MYSELF, there wasn't a paper in
Deuceace's desk or drawer, not a bill, a note, or mimerandum, which I
hadn't read as well as he: with Blewitt's it was the same--me and his
young man used to read 'em all. There wasn't a bottle of wine that we
didn't get a glass out of, nor a pound of sugar that we didn't have some
lumps of it. We had keys to all the cubbards--we pipped into all the
letters that kem and went---we pored over all the bill-files--we'd the
best pickens out of the dinners, the livvers of the fowls, the forcemit
balls out of the soup, the egs from the sallit. As for the coals
and candles, we left them to the landrisses. You may call this
robry--nonsince--it's only our rights--a suvvant's purquizzits is as
sacred as the laws of Hengland.

Well, the long and short of it is this. Richard Blewitt, esquire, was
sityouated as follows: He'd an incum of three hundred a year from his
father. Out of this he had to pay one hundred and ninety for money
borrowed by him at collidge, seventy for chambers, seventy more for his
hoss, aty for his suvvant on bord wagis, and about three hundred and
fifty for a sepparat establishment in the Regency Park; besides this,
his pockit-money, say a hunderd, his eatin, drinkin, and wine-marchant's
bill, about two hunderd moar. So that you see he laid by a pretty
handsome sum at the end of the year.

My master was diffrent; and being a more fashnable man than Mr. B., in
course he owed a deal more mony. There was fust:


     Account contray, at Crockford's        L 3711  0  0
     Bills of xchange and I. O. U.'s (but he
        didn't pay these in most cases)       4963  0  0
     21 tailors' bills, in all                1306 11  9
     3 hossdealers' do                         402  0  0
     2 coachbuilder                            506  0  0
     Bills contracted at Cambridtch           2193  6  8
     Sundries                                  987 10  0
                                            ------------
                                           L 14069  8  5


I give this as a curosity--pipple doan't know how in many cases
fashnabble life is carried on; and to know even what a real gnlmn OWES
is somethink instructif and agreeable.

But to my tail. The very day after my master had made the inquiries
concerning Mr. Dawkins, witch I mentioned already, he met Mr. Blewitt on
the stairs; and byoutiffle it was to see how this gnlmn, who had before
been almost cut by my master, was now received by him. One of
the sweetest smiles I ever saw was now vizzable on Mr. Deuceace's
countenance. He held out his hand, covered with a white kid glove, and
said, in the most frenly tone of vice posbill, "What! Mr. Blewitt? It is
an age since we met. What a shame that such near naybors should see each
other so seldom!"

Mr. Blewitt, who was standing at his door, in a pe-green dressing-gown,
smoakin a segar, and singing a hunting coarus, looked surprised,
flattered, and then suspicious.

"Why, yes," says he, "it is, Mr. Deuceace, a long time."

"Not, I think, since we dined at Sir George Hookey's. By-the-by, what
an evening that was--hay, Mr. Blewitt? What wine! what capital songs! I
recollect your 'May-day in the morning'--cuss me, the best comick song
I ever heard. I was speaking to the Duke of Doncaster about it only
yesterday. You know the duke, I think?"

Mr. Blewitt said, quite surly, "No, I don't."

"Not know him!" cries master; "why, hang it, Blewitt! he knows YOU; as
every sporting man in England does, I should think. Why, man, your good
things are in everybody's mouth at Newmarket."

And so master went on chaffin Mr. Blewitt. That genlmn at fust answered
him quite short and angry: but, after a little more flummery, he grew as
pleased as posbill, took in all Deuceace's flatry, and bleeved all
his lies. At last the door shut, and they both went into Mr. Blewitt's
chambers together.

Of course I can't say what past there; but in an hour master kem up to
his own room as yaller as mustard, and smellin sadly of backo smoke. I
never see any genmln more sick than he was; HE'D BEEN SMOAKIN SEAGARS
along with Blewitt. I said nothink, in course, tho I'd often heard him
xpress his horrow of backo, and knew very well he would as soon swallow
pizon as smoke. But he wasn't a chap to do a thing without a reason: if
he'd been smoakin, I warrant he had smoked to some porpus.

I didn't hear the convysation betwean 'em; but Mr. Blewitt's man did:
it was,--"Well, Mr. Blewitt, what capital seagars! Have you one for
a friend to smoak?" (The old fox, it wasn't only the SEAGARS he was
a-smoakin!) "Walk in," says Mr. Blewitt; and they began a chaffin
together; master very ankshous about the young gintleman who had come
to live in our chambers, Mr. Dawkins, and always coming back to that
subject,--saying that people on the same stairkis ot to be frenly; how
glad he'd be, for his part, to know Mr. Dick Blewitt, and ANY FRIEND OF
HIS, and so on. Mr. Dick, howsever, seamed quite aware of the trap
laid for him. "I really don't know this Dawkins," says he: "he's a
chismonger's son, I hear; and tho I've exchanged visits with him, I
doan't intend to continyou the acquaintance,--not wishin to assoshate
with that kind of pipple." So they went on, master fishin, and Mr.
Blewitt not wishin to take the hook at no price.

"Confound the vulgar thief!" muttard my master, as he was laying on his
sophy, after being so very ill; "I've poisoned myself with his infernal
tobacco, and he has foiled me. The cursed swindling boor! he thinks
he'll ruin this poor Cheese-monger, does he? I'll step in, and WARN
him."

I thought I should bust a-laffin, when he talked in this style. I knew
very well what his "warning" meant,--lockin the stable-door but stealin
the hoss fust.

Next day, his strattygam for becoming acquainted with Mr. Dawkins we
exicuted; and very pritty it was.

Besides potry and the flute, Mr. Dawkins, I must tell you, had some
other parshallities--wiz., he was very fond of good eatin and drinkin.
After doddling over his music and boox all day, this young genlmn used
to sally out of evenings, dine sumptiously at a tavern, drinkin all
sorts of wine along with his friend Mr. Blewitt. He was a quiet young
fellow enough at fust; but it was Mr. B. who (for his own porpuses, no
doubt,) had got him into this kind of life. Well, I needn't say that he
who eats a fine dinner, and drinks too much overnight, wants a bottle
of soda-water, and a gril, praps, in the morning. Such was Mr. Dawkinses
case; and reglar almost as twelve o'clock came, the waiter from "Dix
Coffy-House" was to be seen on our stairkis, bringing up Mr. D.'s hot
breakfast.

No man would have thought there was anythink in such a trifling
cirkumstance; master did, though, and pounced upon it like a cock on a
barlycorn.

He sent me out to Mr. Morell's in Pickledilly, for wot's called a
Strasbug-pie--in French, a "patty defau graw." He takes a card, and
nails it on the outside case (patty defaw graws come generally in a
round wooden box, like a drumb); and what do you think he writes on it?
why, as follos:--"For the Honorable Algernon Percy Deuceace, &c. &c. &c.
With Prince Talleyrand's compliments."

Prince Tallyram's complimints, indeed! I laff when I think of it, still,
the old surpint! He WAS a surpint, that Deuceace, and no mistake.

Well, by a most extrornary piece of ill-luck, the nex day punctially
as Mr. Dawkinses brexfas was coming UP the stairs, Mr. Halgernon Percy
Deuceace was going DOWN. He was as gay as a lark, humming an Oppra tune,
and twizzting round his head his hevy gold-headed cane. Down he went
very fast, and by a most unlucky axdent struck his cane against the
waiter's tray, and away went Mr. Dawkinses gril, kayann, kitchup,
soda-water and all! I can't think how my master should have choas such
an exact time; to be sure, his windo looked upon the court, and he could
see every one who came into our door.

As soon as the axdent had took place, master was in such a rage as, to
be sure, no man ever was in befor; he swoar at the waiter in the most
dreddfle way; he threatened him with his stick, and it was only when he
see that the waiter was rayther a bigger man than hisself that he was
in the least pazzyfied. He returned to his own chambres; and John, the
waiter, went off for more gril to Dixes Coffy-house.

"This is a most unlucky axdent, to be sure, Charles," says master to me,
after a few minits paws, during witch he had been and wrote a note,
put it into an anvelope, and sealed it with his big seal of arms. "But
stay--a thought strikes me--take this note to Mr. Dawkins, and that pye
you brought yesterday; and hearkye, you scoundrel, if you say where you
got it I will break every bone in your skin!"

These kind of promises were among the few which I knew him to keep: and
as I loved boath my skinn and my boans, I carried the noat, and of cors
said nothink. Waiting in Mr. Dawkinses chambus for a few minnits, I
returned to my master with an anser. I may as well give both of these
documence, of which I happen to have taken coppies:


                          I.

      THE HON. A. P. DEUCEACE TO T. S. DAWKINS, ESQ.

                                            "TEMPLE, Tuesday.

  "Mr. DEUCEACE presents his compliments to Mr. Dawkins, and begs at
  the same time to offer his most sincere apologies and regrets for
  the accident which has just taken place.

  "May Mr. Deuceace be allowed to take a neighbor's privilege, and to
  remedy the evil he has occasioned to the best of his power if Mr.
  Dawkins will do him the favor to partake of the contents of the
  accompanying case (from Strasbourg direct, and the gift of a
  friend, on whose taste as a gourmand Mr. Dawkins may rely), perhaps
  he will find that it is not a bad substitute for the plat which Mr.
  Deuceace's awkwardness destroyed.

  "It will also, Mr. Deuceace is sure, be no small gratification to
  the original donor of the 'pate', when he learns that it has fallen
  into the hands of so celebrated a bon vivant as Mr. Dawkins.

  "T. S. DAWKINS, Esq., &c. &c. &c."


                           II.

  FROM T. S. DAWKINS, ESQ., TO THE HON. A. P. DEUCEACE.

  "MR. THOMAS SMITH DAWKINS presents his grateful compliments to the
  Hon. Mr. Deuceace, and accepts with the greatest pleasure Mr.
  Deuceace's generous proffer.

  "It would be one of the HAPPIEST MOMENTS of Mr. Smith Dawkins's
  life, if the Hon. Mr. Deuceace would EXTEND HIS GENEROSITY still
  further, and condescend to partake of the repast which his
  MUNIFICENT POLITENESS has furnished.

  "TEMPLE, Tuesday."


Many and many a time, I say, have I grin'd over these letters, which
I had wrote from the original by Mr. Bruffy's copyin clark. Deuceace's
flam about Prince Tallyram was puffickly successful. I saw young Dawkins
blush with delite as he red the note; he toar up for or five sheets
before he composed the answer to it, which was as you red abuff, and
roat in a hand quite trembling with pleasyer. If you could but have seen
the look of triumph in Deuceace's wicked black eyes, when he read the
noat! I never see a deamin yet, but I can phansy 1, a holding a writhing
soal on his pitchfrock, and smilin like Deuceace. He dressed himself in
his very best clothes, and in he went, after sending me over to say that
he would except with pleasyour Mr. Dawkins's invite.

The pie was cut up, and a most frenly conversation begun betwixt the two
genlmin. Deuceace was quite captivating. He spoke to Mr. Dawkins in
the most respeckful and flatrin manner,--agread in every think he
said,--prazed his taste, his furniter, his coat, his classick nolledge,
and his playin on the floot; you'd have thought, to hear him, that such
a polygon of exlens as Dawkins did not breath,--that such a modist,
sinsear, honrabble genlmn as Deuceace was to be seen nowhere xcept
in Pump Cort. Poor Daw was complitly taken in. My master said he'd
introduce him to the Duke of Doncaster, and heaven knows how many nobs
more, till Dawkins was quite intawsicated with pleasyour. I know as a
fac (and it pretty well shows the young genlmn's carryter), that he went
that very day and ordered 2 new coats, on porpos to be introjuiced to
the lords in.

But the best joak of all was at last. Singin, swagrin, and swarink--up
stares came Mr. Dick Blewitt. He flung opn Mr. Dawkins's door, shouting
out, "Daw my old buck, how are you?" when, all of a sudden, he sees Mr.
Deuceace: his jor dropt, he turned chocky white, and then burnin red,
and looked as if a stror would knock him down. "My dear Mr. Blewitt,"
says my master, smilin and offring his hand, "how glad I am to see you.
Mr. Dawkins and I were just talking about your pony! Pray sit down."

Blewitt did; and now was the question, who should sit the other out; but
law bless you! Mr. Blewitt was no match for my master: all the time he
was fidgetty, silent, and sulky; on the contry, master was charmin.
I never herd such a flo of conversatin, or so many wittacisms as he
uttered. At last, completely beat, Mr. Blewitt took his leaf; that
instant master followed him; and passin his arm through that of Mr.
Dick, led him into our chambers, and began talkin to him in the most
affabl and affeckshnat manner.

But Dick was too angry to listen; at last, when master was telling him
some long story about the Duke of Doncaster, Blewitt burst out--

"A plague on the Duke of Doncaster! Come, come, Mr. Deuceace, don't
you be running your rigs upon me; I ain't the man to be bamboozl'd by
long-winded stories about dukes and duchesses. You think I don't know
you; every man knows you and your line of country. Yes, you're after
young Dawkins there, and think to pluck him; but you shan't,--no,
by ---- you shan't." (The reader must recklect that the oaths which
interspussed Mr. B.'s convysation I have left out.) Well, after he'd
fired a wolley of 'em, Mr. Deuceace spoke as cool as possbill.

"Hark ye, Blewitt. I know you to be one of the most infernal thieves and
scoundrels unhung. If you attempt to hector with me, I will cane you; if
you want more, I'll shoot you; if you meddle between me and Dawkins, I
will do both. I know your whole life, you miserable swindler and coward.
I know you have already won two hundred pounds of this lad, and want
all. I will have half, or you never shall have a penny." It's quite true
that master knew things; but how was the wonder.

I couldn't see Mr. B.'s face during this dialogue, bein on the wrong
side of the door; but there was a considdrable paws after thuse
complymints had passed between the two genlmn,--one walkin quickly up
and down the room--tother, angry and stupid, sittin down, and stampin
with his foot.

"Now listen to this, Mr. Blewitt," continues master at last. "If you're
quiet, you shall have half this fellow's money: but venture to win a
shilling from him in my absence, or without my consent, and you do it at
your peril."

"Well, well, Mr. Deuceace," cries Dick, "it's very hard, and I must say,
not fair: the game was of my startin, and you've no right to interfere
with my friend."

"Mr. Blewitt, you are a fool! You professed yesterday not to know this
man, and I was obliged to find him out for myself. I should like to know
by what law of honor I am bound to give him up to you?"

It was charmin to hear this pair of raskles talkin about HONOR. I
declare I could have found it in my heart to warn young Dawkins of the
precious way in which these chaps were going to serve him. But if THEY
didn't know what honor was, I did; and never, never did I tell tails
about my masters when in their sarvice--OUT, in cors, the hobligation is
no longer binding.

Well, the nex day there was a gran dinner at our chambers. White soop,
turbit, and lobstir sos; saddil of Scoch muttn, grous, and M'Arony;
wines, shampang, hock, maderia, a bottle of poart, and ever so many
of clarrit. The compny presint was three; wiz., the Honrabble A. P.
Deuceace, R. Blewitt, and Mr. Dawkins, Exquires. My i, how we genlmn in
the kitchin did enjy it. Mr. Blewittes man eat so much grous (when it
was brot out of the parlor), that I reely thought he would be sik; Mr.
Dawkinses genlmn (who was only abowt 13 years of age) grew so il with
M'Arony and plumb-puddn, as to be obleeged to take sefral of Mr. D's.
pils, which 1/2 kild him. But this is all promiscuous: I an't talkin of
the survants now, but the masters.

Would you bleeve it? After dinner and praps 8 bottles of wine between
the 3, the genlm sat down to ecarty. It's a game where only 2 plays, and
where, in coarse, when there's only 3, one looks on.

Fust, they playd crown pints, and a pound the bett. At this game they
were wonderful equill; and about supper-time (when grilled am, more
shampang, devld biskits, and other things, was brot in) the play stood
thus: Mr. Dawkins had won 2 pounds; Mr. Blewitt 30 shillings; the
Honrabble Mr. Deuceace having lost 3L. l0s. After the devvle and the
shampang the play was a little higher. Now it was pound pints, and five
pound the bet. I thought, to be sure, after hearing the complymints
between Blewitt and master in the morning, that now poor Dawkins's time
was come.

Not so: Dawkins won always, Mr. B. betting on his play, and giving him
the very best of advice. At the end of the evening (which was abowt five
o'clock the nex morning) they stopt. Master was counting up the skore on
a card.

"Blewitt," says he, "I've been unlucky. I owe you, let me see--yes,
five-and-forty pounds?"

"Five-and-forty," says Blewitt, "and no mistake!"

"I will give you a cheque," says the honrabble genlmn.

"Oh! don't mention it, my dear sir!" But master got a grate sheet
of paper, and drew him a check on Messeers. Pump, Algit and Co., his
bankers.

"Now," says master, "I've got to settle with you, my dear Mr. Dawkins.
If you had backd your luck, I should have owed you a very handsome sum
of money. Voyons, thirteen points at a pound--it is easy to calculate;"
and drawin out his puss, he clinked over the table 13 goolden suverings,
which shon till they made my eyes wink.

So did pore Dawkinses, as he put out his hand, all trembling, and drew
them in.

"Let me say," added master, "let me say (and I've had some little
experience), that you are the very best ecarte player with whom I ever
sat down."

Dawkinses eyes glissened as he put the money up, and said, "Law,
Deuceace, you flatter me."

FLATTER him! I should think he did. It was the very think which master
ment.

"But mind you, Dawkins," continyoud he, "I must have my revenge; for I'm
ruined--positively ruined by your luck."

"Well, well," says Mr. Thomas Smith Dawkins, as pleased as if he had
gained a millium, "shall it be to-morrow? Blewitt, what say you?"

Mr. Blewitt agreed, in course. My master, after a little demurring,
consented too. "We'll meet," says he, "at your chambers. But mind, my
dear fello, not too much wine: I can't stand it at any time, especially
when I have to play ecarte with YOU."

Pore Dawkins left our rooms as happy as a prins. "Here, Charles," says
he, and flung me a sovring. Pore fellow! pore fellow! I knew what was
a-comin!

But the best of it was, that these 13 sovrings which Dawkins won, MASTER
HAD BORROWED THEM FROM MR. BLEWITT! I brought 'em, with 7 more, from
that young genlmn's chambers that very morning: for, since his interview
with master, Blewitt had nothing to refuse him.


Well, shall I continue the tail? If Mr. Dawkins had been the least bit
wiser, it would have taken him six months befoar he lost his money; as
it was, he was such a confunded ninny, that it took him a very short
time to part with it.

Nex day (it was Thursday, and master's acquaintance with Mr. Dawkins
had only commenced on Tuesday), Mr. Dawkins, as I said, gev his
party,--dinner at 7. Mr. Blewitt and the two Mr. D.'s as befoar. Play
begins at 11. This time I knew the bisness was pretty serious, for
we suvvants was packed off to bed at 2 o'clock. On Friday, I went to
chambers--no master--he kem in for 5 minutes at about 12, made a little
toilit, ordered more devvles and soda-water, and back again he went to
Mr. Dawkins's.

They had dinner there at 7 again, but nobody seamed to eat, for all the
vittles came out to us genlmn: they had in more wine though, and must
have drunk at least two dozen in the 36 hours.

At ten o'clock, however, on Friday night, back my master came to his
chambers. I saw him as I never saw him before, namly reglar drunk. He
staggered about the room, he danced, he hickipd, he swoar, he flung me
a heap of silver, and, finely, he sunk down exosted on his bed; I pullin
off his boots and close, and making him comfrabble.

When I had removed his garmints, I did what it's the duty of every
servant to do--I emtied his pockits, and looked at his pockit-book and
all his letters: a number of axdents have been prevented that way.

I found there, among a heap of things, the following pretty dockyment--


           I. O. U.
            L 4700.
      THOMAS SMITH DAWKINS.
      Friday, 16th January.


There was another bit of paper of the same kind--"I. 0. U. four hundred
pounds: Richard Blewitt:" but this, in corse, ment nothink.

     .     .     .     .     .     .

Nex mornin, at nine, master was up, and as sober as a judg. He drest,
and was off to Mr. Dawkins. At ten, he ordered a cab, and the two
gentlmn went together.

"Where shall he drive, sir?" says I.

"Oh, tell him to drive to THE BANK."

Pore Dawkins! his eyes red with remors and sleepliss drunkenniss, gave a
shudder and a sob, as he sunk back in the wehicle; and they drove on.

That day he sold out every hapny he was worth, xcept five hundred
pounds.

     .     .     .     .     .     .

Abowt 12 master had returned, and Mr. Dick Blewitt came stridin up the
stairs with a sollum and important hair.

"Is your master at home?" says he.

"Yes, sir," says I; and in he walks. I, in coars, with my ear to the
keyhole, listning with all my mite.

"Well," says Blewitt, "we maid a pretty good night of it, Mr. Deuceace.
Yu've settled, I see, with Dawkins."

"Settled!" says master. "Oh, yes--yes--I've settled with him."

"Four thousand seven hundred, I think?"

"About that--yes."

"That makes my share--let me see--two thousand three hundred and fifty;
which I'll thank you to fork out."

"Upon my word--why--Mr. Blewitt," says master, "I don't really
understand what you mean."

"YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT I MEAN!" says Blewitt, in an axent such as I never
before heard. "You don't know what I mean! Did you not promise me that
we were to go shares? Didn't I lend you twenty sovereigns the other
night to pay our losings to Dawkins? Didn't you swear, on your honor as
a gentleman, to give me half of all that might be won in this affair?"

"Agreed, sir," says Deuceace; "agreed."

"Well, sir, and now what have you to say?"

"Why, THAT I DON'T INTEND TO KEEP MY PROMISE! You infernal fool and
ninny! do you suppose I was laboring for YOU? Do you fancy I was going
to the expense of giving a dinner to that jackass yonder, that
you should profit by it? Get away, sir! Leave the room, sir! Or,
stop--here--I will give you four hundred pounds--your own note of hand,
sir, for that sum, if you will consent to forget all that has passed
between us, and that you have never known Mr. Algernon Deuceace."

I've seen pipple angery before now, but never any like Blewitt. He
stormed, groaned, belloed, swoar! At last, he fairly began blubbring;
now cussing and nashing his teeth, now praying dear Mr. Deuceace to
grant him mercy.

At last, master flung open the door (heaven bless us! it's well I didn't
tumble hed over eels into the room!), and said, "Charles, show the
gentleman down stairs!" My master looked at him quite steddy. Blewitt
slunk down, as misrabble as any man I ever see. As for Dawkins, heaven
knows where he was!

     .     .     .     .     .     .

"Charles," says my master to me, about an hour afterwards, "I'm going to
Paris; you may come, too, if you please."


FORING PARTS.


It was a singular proof of my master's modesty, that though he had won
this andsome sum of Mr. Dawkins, and was inclined to be as extravygant
and osntatious as any man I ever seed, yet, when he determined on going
to Paris, he didn't let a single frend know of all them winnings of his;
didn't acquaint my Lord Crabs his father, that he was about to leave
his natiff shoars--neigh--didn't even so much as call together his
tradesmin, and pay off their little bills befor his departure.

On the contry, "Chawles," said he to me, "stick a piece of paper on my
door," which is the way that lawyers do, "and write 'Back at seven'
upon it." Back at seven I wrote, and stuck it on our outer oak. And so
mistearus was Deuceace about his continental tour (to all except me),
that when the landriss brought him her account for the last month
(amountain, at the very least, to 2L. 10s.), master told her to leave it
till Monday morning, when it should be properly settled. It's extrodny
how ickonomical a man becomes, when he's got five thousand lbs. in his
pockit.

Back at 7 indeed! At 7 we were a-roalin on the Dover Road, in the
Reglator Coach--master inside, me out. A strange company of people there
was, too, in that wehicle,--3 sailors; an Italyin with his music-box and
munky; a missionary, going to convert the heathens in France; 2 oppra
girls (they call 'em figure-aunts), and the figure-aunts' mothers
inside; 4 Frenchmin, with gingybred caps and mustashes, singing,
chattering, and jesticklating in the most vonderful vay. Such
compliments as passed between them and the figure-aunts! such a munshin
of biskits and sippin of brandy! such "O mong Jews," and "O sacrrres,"
and "kill fay frwaws!" I didn't understand their languidge at that time,
so of course can't igsplain much of their conwersation; but it pleased
me, nevertheless, for now I felt that I was reely going into foring
parts: which, ever sins I had had any edication at all, was always my
fondest wish. Heavin bless us! thought I, if these are specimeens of
all Frenchmen, what a set they must be. The pore Italyin's monky, sittin
mopin and meluncolly on his box, was not half so ugly, and seamed quite
as reasonabble.

Well, we arrived at Dover--"Ship Hotel" weal cutlets half a ginny,
glas of ale a shilling, glas of neagush, half a crownd, a hapnyworth of
wax-lites four shillings, and so on. But master paid without grumbling;
as long as it was for himself he never minded the expens: and nex day we
embarked in the packit for Balong sir-mare--which means in French, the
town of Balong sityouated on the sea. I who had heard of foring
wonders, expected this to be the fust and greatest: phansy, then, my
disapintment, when we got there, to find this Balong, not situated on
the sea, but on the SHOAR.

But oh! the gettin there was the bisniss. How I did wish for Pump Court
agin, as we were tawsing abowt in the Channel! Gentle reader, av you
ever been on the otion?--"The sea, the sea, the open sea!" as Barry
Cromwell says. As soon as we entered our little wessel, and I'd
looked to master's luggitch and mine (mine was rapt up in a very small
hankercher), as soon, I say, as we entered our little wessel, as soon
as I saw the waives, black and frothy, like fresh drawn porter, a-dashin
against the ribs of our galliant bark, the keal like a wedge, splittin
the billoes in two, the sales a-flaffin in the hair, the standard of
Hengland floating at the mask-head, the steward a-getting ready the
basins and things, the capting proudly tredding the deck and giving
orders to the salers, the white rox of Albany and the bathin-masheens
disappearing in the distans--then, then I felt, for the first time,
the mite, the madgisty of existence. "Yellowplush my boy," said I, in a
dialogue with myself, "your life is now about to commens--your carear,
as a man, dates from your entrans on board this packit. Be wise, be
manly, be cautious, forgit the follies of your youth. You are no longer
a boy now, but a FOOTMAN. Throw down your tops, your marbles, your
boyish games--throw off your childish habbits with your inky clerk's
jackit--throw up your--"

     .     .     .     .     .     .

Here, I recklect, I was obleeged to stopp. A fealin, in the fust place
singlar, in the next place painful, and at last compleatly overpowering,
had come upon me while I was making the abuff speach, and now I found
myself in a sityouation which Dellixy for Bids me to describe. Suffis to
say, that now I dixcovered what basins was made for--that for many, many
hours, I lay in a hagony of exostion, dead to all intense and porpuses,
the rain pattering in my face, the salers tramplink over my body--the
panes of purgatory going on inside. When we'd been about four hours in
this sityouation (it seam'd to me four ears), the steward comes to that
part of the deck where we servants were all huddled up together, and
calls out "Charles!"

"Well," says I, gurgling out a faint "yes, what's the matter?"

"You're wanted."

"Where?"

"Your master's wery ill," says he, with a grin.

"Master be hanged!" says I, turning round, more misrable than ever. I
woodn't have moved that day for twenty thousand masters--no, not for the
Empror of Russia or the Pop of Room.

Well, to cut this sad subjik short, many and many a voyitch have I sins
had upon what Shakspur calls the "wasty dip," but never such a retched
one as that from Dover to Balong, in the year Anna Domino 1818. Steemers
were scarce in those days; and our journey was made in a smack. At last,
when I was in a stage of despare and exostion, as reely to phansy myself
at Death's doar, we got to the end of our journey. Late in the evening
we hailed the Gaelic shoars, and hankered in the arbor of Balong
sir-mare.

It was the entrans of Parrowdice to me and master: and as we entered the
calm water, and saw the comfrabble lights gleaming in the houses, and
felt the roal of the vessel degreasing, never was two mortials gladder,
I warrant, than we were. At length our capting drew up at the key, and
our journey was down. But such a bustle and clatter, such jabbering,
such shrieking and swaring, such wollies of oafs and axicrations as
saluted us on landing, I never knew! We were boarded, in the fust place,
by custom-house officers in cock-hats, who seased our luggitch, and
called for our passpots: then a crowd of inn-waiters came, tumbling and
screaming on deck--"Dis way, sare," cries one; "Hotel Meurice," says
another; "Hotel de Bang," screeches another chap--the tower of Babyle
was nothink to it. The fust thing that struck me on landing was a
big fellow with ear-rings, who very nigh knock me down, in wrenching
master's carpet-bag out of my hand, as I was carrying it to the hotell.
But we got to it safe at last; and, for the fust time in my life, I slep
in a foring country.

I shan't describe this town of Balong, which, as it has been visited by
not less (on an avaridg) than two milliums of English since I fust
saw it twenty years ago, is tolrabbly well known already. It's a dingy
melumcolly place, to my mind; the only thing moving in the streets is
the gutter which runs down 'em. As for wooden shoes, I saw few of 'em;
and for frogs, upon my honor I never see a single Frenchman swallow
one, which I had been led to beleave was their reg'lar, though beastly,
custom. One thing which amazed me was the singlar name which they give
to this town of Balong. It's divided, as every boddy knows, into
an upper town (sitouate on a mounting, and surrounded by a wall, or
bullyvar) and a lower town, which is on the level of the sea. Well, will
it be believed that they call the upper town the Hot Veal, and the other
the Base Veal, which is on the contry, genrally good in France, though
the beaf, it must be confest, is excrabble.

It was in the Base Veal that Deuceace took his lodgian, at the Hotel
de Bang, in a very crooked street called the Rue del Ascew; and if he'd
been the Archbishop of Devonshire, or the Duke of Canterbury, he could
not have given himself greater hairs, I can tell you. Nothink was too
fine for us now; we had a sweet of rooms on the first floor, which
belonged to the prime minister of France (at least the landlord said
they were the premier's); and the Hon. Algernon Percy Deuceace, who had
not paid his landriss, and came to Dover in a coach, seamed now to think
that goold was too vulgar for him, and a carridge and six would break
down with a man of his weight. Shampang flew about like ginger-pop,
besides bordo, clarit, burgundy, burgong, and other wines, and all the
delixes of the Balong kitchins. We stopped a fortnit at this dull place,
and did nothing from morning till night excep walk on the bench, and
watch the ships going in and out of arber, with one of them long,
sliding opra-glasses, which they call, I don't know why, tallow-scoops.
Our amusements for the fortnit we stopped here were boath numerous and
daliteful; nothink, in fact, could be more pickong, as they say. In the
morning before breakfast we boath walked on the Peer; master in a blue
mareen jackit, and me in a slap-up new livry; both provided with long
sliding opra-glasses, called as I said (I don't know Y, but I suppose
it's a scientafick term) tallow-scoops. With these we igsamined, very
attentively, the otion, the sea-weed, the pebbles, the dead cats, the
fishwimmin, and the waives (like little children playing at leap-frog),
which came tumblin over 1 another on to the shoar. It seemed to me as if
they were scrambling to get there, as well they might, being sick of the
sea, and anxious for the blessid, peaceable terry firmy.

After brexfast, down we went again (that is, master on his beat, and me
on mine,--for my place in this foring town was a complete shinycure),
and putting our tally-scoops again in our eyes, we egsamined a little
more the otion, pebbils, dead cats, and so on; and this lasted till
dinner, and dinner till bedtime, and bedtime lasted till nex day, when
came brexfast, and dinner, and tally-scooping, as before. This is the
way with all people of this town, of which, as I've heard say, there is
ten thousand happy English, who lead this plesnt life from year's end to
year's end.

Besides this, there's billiards and gambling for the gentlemen, a little
dancing for the gals, and scandle for the dowygers. In none of these
amusements did we partake. We were a LITTLE too good to play crown pints
at cards, and never get paid when we won; or to go dangling after the
portionless gals, or amuse ourselves with slops and penny-wist along
with the old ladies. No, no; my master was a man of fortn now, and
behayved himself as sich. If ever he condysended to go into the public
room of the Hotel de Bang--the French (doubtless for reasons best known
to themselves) call this a sallymanjy--he swoar more and lowder than
any one there; he abyoused the waiters, the wittles, the wines. With his
glas in his i, he staired at every body. He took always the place before
the fire. He talked about "my carridge," "my currier," "my servant;" and
he did wright. I've always found through life, that if you wish to be
respected by English people, you must be insalent to them, especially
if you are a sprig of nobiliaty. We LIKE being insulted by noblemen,--it
shows they're familiar with us. Law bless us! I've known many and many
a genlmn about town who'd rather be kicked by a lord than not be noticed
by him; they've even had an aw of ME, because I was a lord's footman.
While my master was hectoring in the parlor, at Balong, pretious airs
I gave myself in the kitching, I can tell you; and the consequints was,
that we were better served, and moar liked, than many pipple with twice
our merit.

Deuceace had some particklar plans, no doubt, which kep him so long at
Balong; and it clearly was his wish to act the man of fortune there for
a little time before he tried the character of Paris. He purchased a
carridge, he hired a currier, he rigged me in a fine new livry blazin
with lace, and he past through the Balong bank a thousand pounds of the
money he had won from Dawkins, to his credit at a Paris house; showing
the Balong bankers at the same time, that he'd plenty moar in his
potfolie. This was killin two birds with one stone; the bankers' clerks
spread the nuse over the town, and in a day after master had paid the
money every old dowyger in Balong had looked out the Crabs' family
podigree in the Peeridge, and was quite intimate with the Deuceace name
and estates. If Sattn himself were a lord, I do beleave there's many
vurtuous English mothers would be glad to have him for a son-in-law.

Now, though my master had thought fitt to leave town without
excommunicating with his father on the subject of his intended
continental tripe, as soon as he was settled at Balong he roat my Lord
Crabbs a letter, of which I happen to have a copy. It ran thus:--


"BOULOGNE, January 25.

"MY DEAR FATHER,--I have long, in the course of my legal studies, found
the necessity of a knowledge of French, in which language all the early
history of our profession is written, and have determined to take a
little relaxation from chamber reading, which has seriously injured
my health. If my modest finances can bear a two months' journey, and a
residence at Paris, I propose to remain there that period.

"Will you have the kindness to send me a letter of introduction to Lord
Bobtail, our ambassador? My name, and your old friendship with him, I
know would secure me a reception at his house; but a pressing letter
from yourself would at once be more courteous, and more effectual.

"May I also ask you for my last quarter's salary? I am not an expensive
man, my dear father, as you know; but we are no chameleons, and fifty
pounds (with my little earnings in my profession) would vastly add to
the agremens of my continental excursion.

"Present my love to all my brothers and sisters. Ah! how I wish the
hard portion of a younger son had not been mine, and that I could live
without the dire necessity for labor, happy among the rural scenes of my
childhood, and in the society of my dear sisters and you! Heaven bless
you, dearest father, and all those beloved ones now dwelling under the
dear old roof at Sizes.

"Ever your affectionate son,

"Algernon.

"THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF CRABS, &c.,

SIZES COURT, BUCKS."


To this affeckshnat letter his lordship replied, by return of poast, as
follos:--


"MY DEAR ALGERNON,--Your letter came safe to hand and I enclose you the
letter for Lord Bobtail as you desire. He is a kind man, and has one of
the best cooks in Europe.

"We were all charmed with your warm remembrances of us, not having seen
you for seven years. We cannot but be pleased at the family affection
which, in spite of time and absence, still clings so fondly to home. It
is a sad, selfish world, and very few who have entered it can afford to
keep those fresh feelings which you have, my dear son.

"May you long retain them, is a fond father's earnest prayer. Be sure,
dear Algernon, that they will be through life your greatest comfort, as
well as your best worldly ally; consoling you in misfortune, cheering
you in depression, aiding and inspiring you to exertion and success.

"I am sorry, truly sorry, that my account at Coutts's is so low,
just now, as to render a payment of your allowance for the present
impossible. I see by my book that I owe you now nine quarters, or 450L.
Depend on it, my dear boy, that they shall be faithfully paid over to
you on the first opportunity.

"By the way, I have enclosed some extracts from the newspapers, which
may interest you: and have received a very strange letter from a Mr.
Blewitt, about a play transaction, which, I suppose, is the case alluded
to in these prints. He says you won 4700L. from one Dawkins: that the
lad paid it; that he, Blewitt, was to go what he calls 'snacks' in the
winning; but that you refused to share the booty. How can you, my dear
boy, quarrel with these vulgar people, or lay yourself in any way open
to their attacks? I have played myself a good deal, and there is no man
living who can accuse me of a doubtful act. You should either have shot
this Blewitt or paid him. Now, as the matter stands, it is too late to
do the former; and, perhaps, it would be Quixotic to perform the latter.
My dearest boy! recollect through life that YOU NEVER CAN AFFORD TO BE
DISHONEST WITH A ROQUE. Four thousand seven hundred pounds was a great
coup, to be sure.

"As you are now in such high feather, can you, dearest Algernon! lend
me five hundred pounds? Upon my soul and honor, I will repay you. Your
brothers and sisters send you their love. I need not add, that you have
always the blessings of your affectionate father,

"CRABS."

"P.S.--Make it 500, and I will give you my note-of-hand for a thousand."

     .     .     .     .     .     .

I needn't say that this did not QUITE enter into Deuceace's eyedears.
Lend his father 500 pound, indeed! He'd as soon have lent him a box on
the year! In the fust place, he hadn seen old Crabs for seven years, as
that nobleman remarked in his epistol; in the secknd he hated him, and
they hated each other; and nex, if master had loved his father ever
so much, he loved somebody else better--his father's son, namely: and
sooner than deprive that exlent young man of a penny, he'd have sean all
the fathers in the world hangin at Newgat, and all the "beloved ones,"
as he called his sisters, the Lady Deuceacisses, so many convix at
Bottomy Bay.

The newspaper parrografs showed that, however secret WE wished to keep
the play transaction, the public knew it now full well. Blewitt, as I
found after, was the author of the libels which appeared right and left:


"GAMBLING IN HIGH LIFE--the HONORABLE Mr. D--c--ce again!--This
celebrated whist-player has turned his accomplishments to some profit.
On Friday, the 16th January, he won five thousand pounds from a VERY
young gentleman, Th-m-s Sm-th D-wk-ns, Esq., and lost two thousand five
hundred to R. Bl-w-tt, Esq., of the T-mple. Mr. D. very honorably paid
the sum lost by him to the honorable whist-player, but we have not heard
that, BEFORE HIS SUDDEN TRIP TO PARIS, Mr. D--uc--ce paid HIS losings to
Mr. Bl-w-tt."


Nex came a "Notice to Corryspondents:"


"Fair Play asks us, if we know of the gambling doings of the notorious
Deuceace? We answer, WE DO; and, in our very next Number, propose to
make some of them public."

     .     .     .     .     .     .

They didn't appear, however; but, on the contry, the very same
newspeper, which had been before so abusiff of Deuceace, was now loud in
his praise. It said:--


"A paragraph was inadvertently admitted into our paper of last week,
most unjustly assailing the character of a gentleman of high birth and
talents, the son of the exemplary E-rl of Cr-bs. We repel, with scorn
and indignation, the dastardly falsehoods of the malignant slanderer
who vilified Mr. De--ce-ce, and beg to offer that gentleman the only
reparation in our power for having thus tampered with his unsullied
name. We disbelieve the RUFFIAN and HIS STORY, and most sincerely
regret that such a tale, or SUCH A WRITER, should ever have been brought
forward to the readers of this paper."


This was satisfactory, and no mistake: and much pleased we were at the
denial of this conshentious editor. So much pleased that master sent
him a ten-pound noat, and his complymints. He'd sent another to the same
address, BEFORE this parrowgraff was printed; WHY, I can't think: for I
woodn't suppose any thing musnary in a littery man.

Well, after this bisniss was concluded, the currier hired, the carridge
smartened a little, and me set up in my new livries, we bade ojew to
Bulong in the grandest state posbill. What a figure we cut! and, my i,
what a figger the postillion cut! A cock-hat, a jackit made out of a
cow's skin (it was in cold weather), a pig-tale about 3 fit in length,
and a pair of boots! Oh, sich a pare! A bishop might almost have
preached out of one, or a modrat-sized famly slep in it. Me and Mr.
Schwigshhnaps, the currier, sate behind in the rumbill; master aloan in
the inside, as grand as a Turk, and rapt up in his fine fir-cloak. Off
we sett, bowing gracefly to the crowd; the harniss-bells jinglin, the
great white hosses snortin, kickin, and squeelin, and the postilium
cracking his wip, as loud as if he'd been drivin her majesty the quean.

     .     .     .     .     .     .

Well, I shan't describe our voyitch. We passed sefral sitties,
willitches, and metrappolishes; sleeping the fust night at Amiens,
witch, as everyboddy knows, is famous ever since the year 1802 for
what's called the Pease of Amiens. We had some, very good, done with
sugar and brown sos, in the Amiens way. But after all the boasting about
them, I think I like our marrowphats better.

Speaking of wedgytables, another singler axdent happened here concarning
them. Master, who was brexfasting before going away, told me to go and
get him his fur travling-shoes. I went and toald the waiter of the
inn, who stared, grinned (as these chaps always do), said "Bong" (which
means, very well), and presently came back.

I'M BLEST IF HE DIDN'T BRING MASTER A PLATE OF CABBITCH! Would you
bleave it, that now, in the nineteenth sentry, when they say
there's schoolmasters abroad, these stewpid French jackasses are so
extonishingly ignorant as to call a CABBIDGE a SHOO! Never, never let
it be said, after this, that these benighted, souperstitious, misrabble
SAVIDGES, are equill, in any respex, to the great Brittish people. The
moor I travvle, the moor I see of the world, and other natiums, I am
proud of my own, and despise and deplore the retchid ignorance of the
rest of Yourup.

     .     .     .     .     .     .

My remarks on Parris you shall have by an early opportunity. Me and
Deuceace played some curious pranx there, I can tell you.


MR. DEUCEACE AT PARIS.


CHAPTER I.


THE TWO BUNDLES OF HAY.


Lieutenant-General Sir George Griffin, K.C.B., was about seventy-five
years old when he left this life, and the East Ingine army, of which he
was a distinguished ornyment. Sir George's first appearance in Injar was
in the character of a cabbingboy to a vessel; from which he rose to be
clerk to the owners at Calcutta, from which he became all of a sudden a
capting in the Company's service; and so rose and rose, until he rose to
be a leftenant-general, when he stopped rising altogether--hopping the
twig of this life, as drummers, generals, dustmen, and emperors must do.

Sir George did not leave any mal hair to perpetuate the name of Griffin.
A widow of about twenty-seven, and a daughter avaritching twenty-three,
was left behind to deploar his loss, and share his proppaty. On old Sir
George's deth, his interesting widdo and orfan, who had both been with
him in Injer, returned home--tried London for a few months, did not
like it, and resolved on a trip to Paris; where very small London people
become very great ones, if they've money, as these Griffinses had.
The intelligent reader need not be told that Miss Griffin was not the
daughter of Lady Griffin; for though marritches are made tolrabbly early
in Injer, people are not quite so precoashoos as all that: the fact is,
Lady G. was Sir George's second wife. I need scarcely add, that Miss
Matilda Griffin wos the offspring of his fust marritch.

Miss Leonora Kicksey, a ansum, lively Islington gal, taken out to
Calcutta, and, amongst his other goods, very comfortably disposed of
by her uncle, Capting Kicksey, was one-and-twenty when she married Sir
George at seventy-one; and the 13 Miss Kickseys, nine of whom kep a
school at Islington (the other 4 being married variously in the city),
were not a little envius of my lady's luck, and not a little proud of
their relationship to her. One of 'em, Miss Jemima Kicksey, the oldest,
and by no means the least ugly of the sett, was staying with her
ladyship, and gev me all the partecklars. Of the rest of the famly,
being of a lo sort, I in course no nothink; MY acquaintance, thank my
stars, don't lie among them, or the likes of them.

Well, this Miss Jemima lived with her younger and more fortnat sister,
in the qualaty of companion, or toddy. Poar thing! I'd a soon be a gally
slave, as lead the life she did! Every body in the house despised her;
her ladyship insulted her; the very kitching gals scorned and flouted
her. She roat the notes, she kep the bills, she made the tea, she
whipped the chocklate, she cleaned the canary birds, and gev out the
linning for the wash. She was my lady's walking pocket, or rettycule;
and fetched and carried her handkercher, or her smell-bottle, like a
well-bred spaniel. All night, at her ladyship's swarries, she thumped
kidrills (nobody ever thought of asking HER to dance!); when Miss
Griffing sung, she played the piano, and was scolded because the singer
was out of tune; abommanating dogs, she never drove out without her
ladyship's puddle in her lap; and, reglarly unwell in a carriage, she
never got anything but the back seat. Poar Jemima! I can see her now
in my lady's SECKND-BEST old clothes (the ladies'-maids always got the
prime leavings): a liloc sattn gown, crumpled, blotched, and greasy; a
pair of white sattn shoes, of the color of Inger rubber; a faded yellow
velvet hat, with a wreath of hartifishl flowers run to sead, and a bird
of Parrowdice perched on the top of it, melumcolly and moulting, with
only a couple of feathers left in his unfortunate tail.

Besides this ornyment to their saloon, Lady and Miss Griffin kept a
number of other servants in the kitching; 2 ladies'-maids; 2 footmin,
six feet high each, crimson coats, goold knots, and white cassymear
pantyloons; a coachmin to match; a page: and a Shassure, a kind
of servant only known among forriners, and who looks more like a
major-general than any other mortial, wearing a cock-hat, a unicorn
covered with silver lace, mustashos, eplets, and a sword by his side.
All these to wait upon two ladies; not counting a host of the fair sex,
such as cooks, scullion, housekeepers, and so forth.

My Lady Griffin's lodging was at forty pound a week, in a grand sweet
of rooms in the Plas Vandome at Paris. And, having thus described their
house, and their servants' hall, I may give a few words of description
concerning the ladies themselves.

In the fust place, and in coarse, they hated each other. My lady was
twenty-seven--a widdo of two years--fat, fair, and rosy. A slow, quiet,
cold-looking woman, as those fair-haired gals generally are, it seemed
difficult to rouse her either into likes or dislikes; to the former,
at least. She never loved any body but ONE, and that was herself. She
hated, in her calm, quiet way, almost every one else who came near
her--every one, from her neighbor, the duke, who had slighted her at
dinner, down to John the footman, who had torn a hole in her train. I
think this woman's heart was like one of them lithograffic stones, you
CAN'T RUB OUT ANY THING when once it's drawn or wrote on it; nor could
you out of her ladyship's stone--heart, I mean--in the shape of an
affront, a slight, or real, or phansied injury. She boar an exlent,
irreprotchable character, against which the tongue of scandal never
wagged. She was allowed to be the best wife posbill--and so she was; but
she killed her old husband in two years, as dead as ever Mr. Thurtell
killed Mr. William Weare. She never got into a passion, not she--she
never said a rude word; but she'd a genius--a genius which many women
have--of making A HELL of a house, and tort'ring the poor creatures of
her family, until they were wellnigh drove mad.

Miss Matilda Griffin was a good deal uglier, and about as amiable as
her mother-in-law. She was crooked, and squinted; my lady, to do her
justice, was straight, and looked the same way with her i's. She was
dark, and my lady was fair--sentimental, as her ladyship was cold. My
lady was never in a passion--Miss Matilda always; and awfille were the
scenes which used to pass between these 2 women, and the wickid, wickid
quarls which took place. Why did they live together? There was the
mistry. Not related, and hating each other like pison, it would surely
have been easier to remain seprat, and so have detested each other at a
distans.

As for the fortune which old Sir George had left, that, it was clear,
was very considrabble--300 thousand lb. at the least, as I have heard
say. But nobody knew how it was disposed of. Some said that her ladyship
was sole mistriss of it, others that it was divided, others that she had
only a life inkum, and that the money was all to go (as was natral) to
Miss Matilda. These are subjix which are not praps very interesting to
the British public, but were mighty important to my master, the
Honrable Algernon Percy Deuceace, esquire, barrister-at-law, etsettler,
etsettler.

For I've forgot to inform you that my master was very intimat in this
house; and that we were now comfortably settled at the Hotel Mirabew
(pronounced Marobo in French), in the Rew delly Pay, at Paris. We had
our cab, and two riding horses; our banker's book, and a thousand pound
for a balantz at Lafitt's; our club at the corner of the Rew Gramong;
our share in a box at the oppras; our apartments, spacious and elygant;
our swarries at court; our dinners at his excellency Lord Bobtail's
and elsewhere. Thanks to poar Dawkins's five thousand pound, we were as
complete gentlemen as any in Paris.

Now my master, like a wise man as he was, seaing himself at the head of
a smart sum of money, and in a country where his debts could not bother
him, determined to give up for the present every think like gambling--at
least, high play; as for losing or winning a ralow of Napoleums at whist
or ecarty, it did not matter; it looks like money to do such things, and
gives a kind of respectabilaty. "But as for play, he wouldn't--oh no!
not for worlds!--do such a thing." He HAD played, like other young men
of fashn, and won and lost [old fox! he didn't say he had PAID]; but he
had given up the amusement, and was now determined, he said, to live
on his inkum. The fact is, my master was doing his very best to act
the respectable man: and a very good game it is, too; but it requires a
precious great roag to play it.

He made his appearans reglar at church--me carrying a handsome large
black marocky Prayer-book and Bible, with the psalms and lessons marked
out with red ribbings; and you'd have thought, as I graivly laid the
volloms down before him, and as he berried his head in his nicely
brushed hat, before service began, that such a pious, proper morl, young
nobleman was not to be found in the whole of the peeridge. It was a
comfort to look at him. Efry old tabby and dowyger at my Lord Bobtail's
turned up the wights of their i's when they spoke of him, and vowed they
had never seen such a dear, daliteful, exlent young man. What a good son
he must be, they said; and oh, what a good son-in-law! He had the pick
of all the English gals at Paris before we had been there 3 months. But,
unfortunately, most of them were poar; and love and a cottidge was not
quite in master's way of thinking.

Well, about this time my Lady Griffin and Miss G. made their appearants
at Parris, and master, who was up to snough, very soon changed his noat.
He sate near them at chapple, and sung hims with my lady: he danced with
'em at the embassy balls; he road with them in the Boy de Balong and
the Shandeleasies (which is the French High Park); he roat potry in Miss
Griffin's halbim, and sang jewets along with her and Lady Griffin; he
brought sweet-meats for the puddle-dog; he gave money to the footmin,
kissis and gloves to the sniggering ladies'-maids; he was sivvle even
to poar Miss Kicksey; there wasn't a single soal at the Griffinses that
didn't adoar this good young man.

The ladies, if they hated befoar, you may be sure detested each other
now wuss than ever. There had been always a jallowsy between them:
miss jellows of her mother-in-law's bewty; madam of miss's espree: miss
taunting my lady about the school at Islington, and my lady sneering at
miss for her squint and her crookid back. And now came a stronger caws.
They both fell in love with Mr. Deuceace--my lady, that is to say, as
much as she could, with her cold selfish temper. She liked Deuceace, who
amused her and made her laff. She liked his manners, his riding, and his
good loox; and being a pervinew herself had a dubble respect for real
aristocratick flesh and blood. Miss's love, on the contry, was all flams
and fury. She'd always been at this work from the time she had been at
school, where she very nigh run away with a Frentch master; next with
a footman (which I may say, in confidence, is by no means unnatral or
unusyouall, as I COULD SHOW IF I LIKED); and so had been going on sins
fifteen. She reglarly flung herself at Deuceace's head--such sighing,
crying, and ogling, I never see. Often was I ready to bust out laffin,
as I brought master skoars of rose-colored billydoos, folded up like
cockhats, and smellin like barber's shops, which this very tender young
lady used to address to him. Now, though master was a scoundrill and no
mistake, he was a gentlemin, and a man of good breading; and miss CAME
A LITTLE TOO STRONG (pardon the wulgarity of the xpression) with her
hardor and attachmint, for one of his taste. Besides, she had a crookid
spine, and a squint; so that (supposing their fortns tolrabbly equal)
Deuceace reely preferred the mother-in-law.

Now, then, it was his bisniss to find out which had the most money. With
an English famly this would have been easy: a look at a will at Doctor
Commons'es would settle the matter at once. But this India naybob's
will was at Calcutty, or some outlandish place; and there was no getting
sight of a coppy of it. I will do Mr. Algernon Deuceace the justass to
say, that he was so little musnary in his love for Lady Griffin, that he
would have married her gladly, even if she had ten thousand pounds less
than Miss Matilda. In the meantime, his plan was to keep 'em both in
play, until he could strike the best fish of the two--not a difficult
matter for a man of his genus: besides, Miss was hooked for certain.


CHAPTER II.

"HONOR THY FATHER."


I said that my master was adoard by every person in my Lady Griffin's
establishmint. I should have said by every person excep one,--a young
French gnlmn, that is, who, before our appearants, had been mighty
partiklar with my lady, ockupying by her side exackly the same
pasition which the Honrable Mr. Deuceace now held. It was bewtiffle
and headifying to see how coolly that young nobleman kicked the poar
Shevalliay de L'Orge out of his shoes, and how gracefully he himself
stept into 'em. Munseer de L'Orge was a smart young French jentleman,
of about my master's age and good looks, but not possest of half my
master's impidince. Not that that quallaty is uncommon in France;
but few, very few, had it to such a degree as my exlent employer, Mr.
Deuceace. Besides De L'Orge was reglarly and reely in love with Lady
Griffin, and master only pretending: he had, of coars, an advantitch,
which the poor Frentchman never could git. He was all smiles and gaty,
while Delorge was ockward and melumcolly. My master had said twenty
pretty things to Lady Griffin, befor the shevalier had finished
smoothing his hat, staring at her, and sighing fit to bust his weskit.
O luv, luv! THIS isn't the way to win a woman, or my name's not Fitzroy
Yellowplush! Myself, when I begun my carear among the fair six, I
was always sighing and moping, like this poar Frenchman. What was the
consquints? The foar fust women I adoared lafft at me, and left me for
something more lively. With the rest I have edopted a diffrent game,
and with tolerable suxess, I can tell you. But this is eggatism, which I
aboar.

Well, the long and the short of it is, that Munseer Ferdinand Hyppolite
Xavier Stanislas, Shevalier de L'Orge, was reglar cut out by Munseer
Algernon Percy Deuceace, Exquire. Poar Ferdinand did not leave the
house--he hadn't the heart to do that--nor had my lady the desire
to dismiss him. He was usefle in a thousand different ways, gitting
oppra-boxes, and invitations to French swarries, bying gloves, and O de
Colong, writing French noats, and such like. Always let me recommend
an English famly, going to Paris, to have at least one young man of the
sort about them. Never mind how old your ladyship is, he will make love
to you; never mind what errints you send him upon, he'll trot off and do
them. Besides, he's always quite and well-dresst, and never drinx moar
than a pint of wine at dinner, which (as I say) is a pint to consider.
Such a conveniants of a man was Munseer de L'Orge--the greatest use
and comfort to my lady posbill; if it was but to laff at his bad
pronunciatium of English, it was somethink amusink; the fun was to pit
him against poar Miss Kicksey, she speakin French, and he our naytif
British tong.

My master, to do him justace, was perfickly sivvle to this poar young
Frenchman; and having kicked him out of the place which he occupied,
sertingly treated his fallen anymy with every respect and consideration.
Poar modist, down-hearted little Ferdinand adoured my lady as a goddice!
and so he was very polite likewise to my master--never venturing once to
be jellows of him, or to question my Lady Griffin's right to change her
lover, if she choase to do so.

Thus, then, matters stood; master had two strinx to his bo, and might
take either the widdo or the orfn, as he preferred: com bong lwee
somblay, as the Frentch say. His only pint was to discover how the money
was disposed off, which evidently belonged to one or other, or boath.
At any rate he was sure of one; as sure as any mortal man can be in this
sublimary spear, where nothink is suttin except unsertnty.

     .     .     .     .     .     .

A very unixpected insident here took place, which in a good deal changed
my master's calkylations.

One night, after conducting the two ladies to the oppra, after suppink
of white soop, sammy-deperdrow, and shampang glassy (which means eyced),
at their house in the Plas Vandom, me and master droav hoam in the cab,
as happy as possbill.

"Chawls you d----d scoundrel," says he to me (for he was in an exlent
humer), "when I'm married, I'll dubbil your wagis."

This he might do, to be sure, without injuring himself, seeing that he
had us yet never paid me any. But, what then? Law bless us! things
would be at a pretty pass if we suvvants only lived on our WAGIS; our
puckwisits is the thing, and no mistake.

I ixprest my gratitude as best I could; swoar that it wasn't for wagis
I served him--that I would as leaf weight upon him for nothink; and that
never, never, so long as I livd, would I, of my own accord, part from
such an exlent master. By the time these two spitches had been made--my
spitch and his--we arrived at the "Hotel Mirabeu;" which, us every body
knows, ain't very distant from the Plas Vandome. Up we marched to our
apartmince, me carrying the light and the cloax, master hummink a hair
out of the oppra, as merry as a lark.

I opened the door of our salong. There was lights already in the room;
an empty shampang bottle roalin on the floar, another on the table; near
which the sofy was drawn, and on it lay a stout old genlmn, smoaking
seagars as if he'd bean in an inn tap-room.

Deuceace (who abommunates seagars, as I've already shown) bust into
a furious raige against the genlmn, whom he could hardly see for the
smoak; and, with a number of oaves quite unnecessary to repeat, asked
him what bisniss he'd there.

The smoaking chap rose, and, laying down his seagar, began a ror of
laffin, and said, "What! Algy my boy! don't you know me?"

The reader may praps recklect a very affecting letter which was
published in the last chapter of these memoars; in which the writer
requested a loan of five hundred pound from Mr. Algernon Deuceace, and
which boar the respected signatur of the Earl of Crabs, Mr. Deuceace's
own father. It was that distinguished arastycrat who was now smokin and
laffin in our room.

My Lord Crabs was, as I preshumed, about 60 years old. A stowt, burly,
red-faced, bald-headed nobleman, whose nose seemed blushing at what his
mouth was continually swallowing; whose hand, praps, trembled a little;
and whose thy and legg was not quite so full or as steddy as they
had been in former days. But he was a respecktabble, fine-looking old
nobleman; and though it must be confest, 1/2 drunk when we fust made our
appearance in the salong, yet by no means moor so than a reel noblemin
ought to be.

"What, Algy my boy!" shouts out his lordship, advancing and seasing
master by the hand, "doan't you know your own father?"

Master seemed anythink but overhappy. "My lord," says he, looking very
pail, and speakin rayther slow, "I didn't--I confess--the unexpected
pleasure--of seeing you in Paris. The fact is, sir, said he," recovering
himself a little; "the fact is, there was such a confounded smoke of
tobacco in the room, that I really could not see who the stranger was
who had paid me such an unexpected visit."

"A bad habit, Algernon; a bad habit," said my lord, lighting another
seagar: "a disgusting and filthy practice, which you, my dear child,
will do well to avoid. It is at best, dear Algernon, but a nasty, idle
pastime, unfitting a man as well for mental exertion as for respectable
society; sacrificing, at once, the vigor of the intellect and the graces
of the person. By-the-by, what infernal bad tobacco they have, too, in
this hotel. Could not you send your servant to get me a few seagars at
the Cafe de Paris? Give him a five-franc piece, and let him go at once,
that's a good fellow."

Here his lordship hiccupt, and drank off a fresh tumbler of shampang.
Very sulkily, master drew out the coin, and sent me on the errint.

Knowing the Cafe de Paris to be shut at that hour, I didn't say a word,
but quietly establisht myself in the ante-room; where, as it happened
by a singler coinstdints, I could hear every word of the conversation
between this exlent pair of relatifs.

"Help yourself, and get another bottle," says my lord, after a sollum
paws. My poar master, the king of all other compnies in which he moved,
seamed here but to play secknd fiddill, and went to the cubbard,
from which his father had already igstracted two bottils of his prime
Sillary.

He put it down before his father, coft, spit, opened the windows,
stirred the fire, yawned, clapt his hand to his forehead, and suttnly
seamed as uneezy as a genlmn could be. But it was of no use; the old
one would not budg. "Help yourself," says he again, "and pass me the
bottil."

"You are very good, father," says master; "but really, I neither drink
nor smoke."

"Right, my boy: quite right. Talk about a good conscience in this
life--a good STOMACK is everythink. No bad nights, no headachs--eh?
Quite cool and collected for your law studies in the morning?--eh?" And
the old nobleman here grinned, in a manner which would have done creddit
to Mr. Grimoldi.

Master sate pale and wincing, as I've seen a pore soldier under the cat.
He didn't anser a word. His exlent pa went on, warming as he continued
to speak, and drinking a fresh glas at evry full stop.

"How you must improve, with such talents and such principles! Why,
Algernon, all London talks of your industry and perseverance: you're not
merely a philosopher, man; hang it! you've got the philosopher's stone.
Fine rooms, fine horses, champagne, and all for 200 a year!"

"I presume, sir," says my master, "that you mean the two hundred a year
which YOU pay me?"

"The very sum, my boy; the very sum!" cries my lord, laffin as if he
would die. "Why, that's the wonder! I never pay the two hundred a year,
and you keep all this state up upon nothing. Give me your secret, O you
young Trismegistus! Tell your old father how such wonders can be worked,
and I will--yes, then, upon my word, I will--pay you your two hundred a
year!"

"Enfin, my lord," says Mr. Deuceace, starting up, and losing all
patience, "will you have the goodness to tell me what this visit means?
You leave me to starve, for all you care; and you grow mighty facetious
because I earn my bread. You find me in prosperity, and--"

"Precisely, my boy; precisely. Keep your temper, and pass that bottle.
I find you in prosperity; and a young gentleman of your genius and
acquirements asks me why I seek your society? Oh, Algernon! Algernon!
this is not worthy of such a profound philosopher. WHY do I seek you?
Why, because you ARE in prosperity, O my son! else, why the devil should
I bother my self about you? Did I, your poor mother, or your family,
ever get from you a single affectionate feeling? Did we, or any other of
your friends or intimates, ever know you to be guilty of a single honest
or generous action? Did we ever pretend any love for you, or you for us?
Algernon Deuceace, you don't want a father to tell you that you are
a swindler and a spendthrift! I have paid thousands for the debts of
yourself and your brothers; and, if you pay nobody else, I am determined
you shall repay me. You would not do it by fair means, when I wrote
to you and asked you for a loan of money. I knew you would not. Had
I written again to warn you of my coming, you would have given me the
slip; and so I came, uninvited, to FORCE you to repay me. THAT'S why I
am here, Mr. Algernon; and so help yourself and pass the bottle."

After this speach, the old genlmn sunk down on the sofa, and puffed
as much smoke out of his mouth as if he'd been the chimley of a
steam-injian. I was pleased, I confess, with the sean, and liked to see
this venrabble and virtuous old man a-nocking his son about the hed;
just as Deuceace had done with Mr. Richard Blewitt, as I've before
shown. Master's face was, fust, red-hot; next, chawk-white: and then
sky-blew. He looked, for all the world, like Mr. Tippy Cooke in the
tragady of Frankinstang. At last, he mannidged to speek.

"My lord," says he, "I expected when I saw you that some such scheme was
on foot. Swindler and spendthrift as I am, at least it is but a family
failing; and I am indebted for my virtues to my father's precious
example. Your lordship has, I perceive, added drunkenness to the list
of your accomplishments, and, I suppose, under the influence of that
gentlemanly excitement, has come to make these preposterous propositions
to me. When you are sober, you will, perhaps, be wise enough to know,
that, fool as I may be, I am not such a fool as you think me; and that
if I have got money, I intend to keep it--every farthing of it, though
you were to be ten times as drunk, and ten times as threatening as you
are now."

"Well, well, my boy," said Lord Crabs, who seemed to have been half
asleep during his son's oratium, and received all his sneers and
surcasms with the most complete good-humor; "well, well, if you will
resist, tant pis pour toi. I've no desire to ruin you, recollect, and
am not in the slightest degree angry but I must and will have a thousand
pounds. You had better give me the money at once; it will cost you more
if you don't."

"Sir," says Mr. Deuceace, "I will be equally candid. I would not give
you a farthing to save you from--"

Here I thought proper to open the doar, and, touching my hat, said, "I
have been to the Cafe de Paris, my lord, but the house is shut."

"Bon: there's a good lad; you may keep the five francs. And now, get me
a candle and show me down stairs."

But my master seized the wax taper. "Pardon me, my lord," says he.
"What! a servant do it, when your son is in the room? Ah, par exemple,
my dear father," said he, laughing, "you think there is no politeness
left among us." And he led the way out.

"Good night, my dear boy," said Lord Crabs.

"God bless you, sir," says he. "Are you wrapped warm? Mind the step!"

And so this affeckshnate pair parted.


CHAPTER III.

MINEWVRING.


Master rose the nex morning with a dismal countinants--he seamed to
think that his pa's visit boded him no good. I heard him muttering at
his brexfast, and fumbling among his hundred pound notes; once he had
laid a parsle of them aside (I knew what he meant), to send 'em to his
father. "But no," says he at last, clutching them all up together again,
and throwing them into his escritaw, "what harm can he do me? If he is
a knave, I know another who's full as sharp. Let's see if we cannot beat
him at his own weapons." With that Mr. Deuceace drest himself in his
best clothes, and marched off to the Plas Vandom, to pay his cort to the
fair widdo and the intresting orfn.

It was abowt ten o'clock, and he propoased to the ladies, on seeing
them, a number of planns for the day's rackryation. Riding in the Body
Balong, going to the Twillaries to see King Looy Disweet (who was then
the raining sufferin of the French crownd) go to chapple, and, finely,
a dinner at 5 o'clock at the Caffy de Parry; whents they were all to
adjourn, to see a new peace at the theatre of the Pot St. Martin, called
Sussannar and the Elders.

The gals agread to everythink, exsep the two last prepositiums. "We have
an engagement, my dear Mr. Algernon," said my lady. "Look--a very kind
letter from Lady Bobtail." And she handed over a pafewmd noat from that
exolted lady. It ran thus:--


"FBG. ST. HONORE, Thursday, Feb. 15, 1817.

"MY DEAR LADY GRIFFIN,--It is an age since we met. Harassing public
duties occupy so much myself and Lord Bobtail, that we have scarce time
to see our private friends; among whom, I hope, my dear Lady Griffin
will allow me to rank her. Will you excuse so unceremonious an
invitation, and dine with us at the embassy to-day? We shall be en
petite comite, and shall have the pleasure of hearing, I hope, some of
your charming daughter's singing in the evening. I ought, perhaps, to
have addressed a separate, note to dear Miss Griffin; but I hope she
will pardon a poor diplomate, who has so many letters to write, you
know.

"Farewell till seven, when I POSITIVELY MUST see you both. Ever, dearest
Lady Griffin, your affectionate

"ELIZA BOBTAIL."


Such a letter from the ambassdriss, brot by the ambasdor's Shassure, and
sealed with his seal of arms, would affect anybody in the middling ranx
of life. It droav Lady Griffin mad with delight; and, long before my
master's arrivle, she'd sent Mortimer and Fitzclarence, her two footmin,
along with a polite reply in the affummatiff.

Master read the noat with no such fealinx of joy. He felt that there
was somethink a-going on behind the seans, and, though he could not tell
how, was sure that some danger was near him. That old fox of a father of
his had begun his M'Inations pretty early!

Deuceace handed back the letter; sneared, and poohd, and hinted that
such an invitation was an insult at best (what he called a pees ally);
and, the ladies might depend upon it, was only sent because Lady Bobtail
wanted to fill up two spare places at her table. But Lady Griffin and
Miss would not have his insinwations; they knew too fu lords ever to
refuse an invitatium from any one of them. Go they would; and poor
Deuceace must dine alone. After they had been on their ride, and had had
their other amusemince, master came back with them, chatted, and laft;
he was mighty sarkastix with my lady; tender and sentrymentle with Miss;
and left them both in high sperrits to perform their twollet, before
dinner.

As I came to the door (for I was as famillyer as a servnt of the house),
as I came into the drawing-room to announts his cab, I saw master very
quietly taking his pocket-book (or pot fool, as the French call it) and
thrusting it under one of the cushinx of the sofa. What game is this?
thinx I.

Why, this was the game. In abowt two hours, when he knew the ladies were
gon, he pretends to be vastly anxious abowt the loss of his potfolio;
and back he goes to Lady Griffinses to seek for it there.

"Pray," says he, on going in, "ask Miss Kicksey if I may see her for a
single moment." And down comes Miss Kicksey, quite smiling, and happy to
see him.

"Law, Mr. Deuceace!" says she, trying to blush as hard as ever she
could, "you quite surprise me! I don't know whether I ought, really,
being alone, to admit a gentleman."

"Nay, don't say so, dear Miss Kicksey! for do you know, I came here for
a double purpose--to ask about a pocket-book which I have lost, and may,
perhaps, have left here; and then, to ask you if you will have the great
goodness to pity a solitary bachelor, and give him a cup of your nice
tea?"

NICE TEA! I thot I should have split; for I'm blest if master had eaten
a morsle of dinner!

Never mind: down to tea they sat. "Do you take cream and sugar, dear
sir?" says poar Kicksey, with a voice as tender as a tuttle-duff.

"Both, dearest Miss Kicksey!" answers master; who stowed in a power of
sashong and muffinx which would have done honor to a washawoman.

I shan't describe the conversation that took place betwigst master and
this young lady. The reader, praps, knows y Deuceace took the trouble to
talk to her for an hour, and to swallow all her tea. He wanted to find
out from her all she knew about the famly money matters, and settle at
once which of the two Griffinses he should marry.

The poar thing, of cors, was no match for such a man as my master. In
a quarter of an hour, he had, if I may use the igspression, "turned her
inside out." He knew everything that she knew; and that, poar creature,
was very little. There was nine thousand a year, she had heard say,
in money, in houses, in banks in Injar, and what not. Boath the ladies
signed papers for selling or buying, and the money seemed equilly
divided betwigst them.

NINE THOUSAND A YEAR! Deuceace went away, his cheex tingling, his heart
beating. He, without a penny, could nex morning, if he liked, be master
of five thousand per hannum!

Yes. But how? Which had the money, the mother or the daughter? All the
tea-drinking had not taught him this piece of nollidge; and Deuceace
thought it a pity that he could not marry both.

     .     .     .     .     .     .

The ladies came back at night, mightaly pleased with their reception at
the ambasdor's; and, stepping out of their carridge, bid coachmin drive
on with a gentlemin who had handed them out--a stout old gentlemin, who
shook hands most tenderly at parting, and promised to call often upon my
Lady Griffin. He was so polite, that he wanted to mount the stairs with
her ladyship; but no, she would not suffer it. "Edward," says she to
the coachmin, quite loud, and pleased that all the people in the hotel
should hear her, "you will take the carriage, and drive HIS LORDSHIP
home." Now, can you guess who his lordship was? The Right Hon. the
Earl of Crabs, to be sure; the very old genlmn whom I had seen on such
charming terms with his son the day before. Master knew this the nex
day, and began to think he had been a fool to deny his pa the thousand
pound.

Now, though the suckmstansies of the dinner at the ambasdor's only came
to my years some time after, I may as well relate 'em here, word for
word, as they was told me by the very genlmn who waited behind Lord
Crabseses chair.

There was only a "petty comity" at dinner, as Lady Bobtail said; and my
Lord Crabs was placed betwigst the two Griffinses, being mighty ellygant
and palite to both. "Allow me," says he to Lady G. (between the soop and
the fish), "my dear madam, to thank you--fervently thank you for your
goodness to my poor boy. Your ladyship is too young to experience, but,
I am sure, far too tender not to understand the gratitude which must
fill a fond parent's heart for kindness shown to his child. Believe
me," says my lord, looking her full and tenderly in the face, "that the
favors you have done to another have been done equally to myself, and
awaken in my bosom the same grateful and affectionate feelings with
which you have already inspired my son Algernon."

Lady Griffin blusht, and droopt her head till her ringlets fell into her
fish-plate: and she swallowed Lord Crabs's flumry just as she would so
many musharuins. My lord (whose powers of slack-jaw was notoarious) nex
addrast another spitch to Miss Griffin. He said he'd heard how Deuceace
was SITUATED. Miss blusht--what a happy dog he was--Miss blusht crimson,
and then he sighed deeply, and began eating his turbat and lobster
sos. Master was a good un at flumry, but, law bless you! he was no moar
equill to the old man than a mole-hill is to a mounting. Before the
night was over, he had made as much progress as another man would in a
ear. One almost forgot his red nose and his big stomick, and his wicked
leering i's, in his gentle insiniwating woice, his fund of annygoats,
and, above all, the bewtific, morl, religious, and honrabble toan of his
genral conservation. Praps you will say that these ladies were, for such
rich pipple, mightaly esaly captivated; but recklect, my dear sir, that
they were fresh from Injar,--that they'd not sean many lords,--that
they adoared the peeridge, as every honest woman does in England who has
proper feelinx, and has read the fashnabble novvles,--and that here at
Paris was their fust step into fashnabble sosiaty.

Well, after dinner, while Miss Matilda was singing "Die tantie," or "Dip
your chair," or some of them sellabrated Italyian hairs (when she began
this squall, hang me if she'd ever stop), my lord gets hold of Lady
Griffin again, and gradgaly begins to talk to her in a very different
strane.

"What a blessing it is for us all," says he, "that Algernon has found a
friend so respectable as your ladyship."

"Indeed, my lord; and why? I suppose I am not the only respectable
friend that Mr. Deuceace has?"

"No, surely; not the only one he HAS HAD: his birth, and, permit me to
say, his relationship to myself, have procured him many. But--" (here my
lord heaved a very affecting and large sigh).

"But what?" says my lady, laffing at the igspression of his dismal face.
"You don't mean that Mr. Deuceace has lost them or is unworthy of them?"

"I trust not, my dear madam, I trust not; but he is wild, thoughtless,
extravagant, and embarrassed: and you know a man under these
circumstances is not very particular as to his associates."

"Embarrassed? Good heavens! He says he has two thousand a year left him
by a god-mother; and he does not seem even to spend his income--a very
handsome independence, too, for a bachelor."

My lord nodded his head sadly, and said,--"Will your ladyship give me
your word of honor to be secret? My son has but a thousand a year, which
I allow him, and is heavily in debt. He has played, madam, I fear;
and for this reason I am so glad to hear that he is in a respectable
domestic circle, where he may learn, in the presence of far greater and
purer attractions, to forget the dice-box, and the low company which has
been his bane."

My Lady Griffin looked very grave indeed. Was it true? Was Deuceace
sincere in his professions of love, or was he only a sharper wooing her
for her money? Could she doubt her informer? his own father, and, what's
more, a real flesh and blood pear of parlyment? She determined she would
try him. Praps she did not know she had liked Deuceace so much, until
she kem to feel how much she should HATE him if she found he'd been
playing her false.

The evening was over, and back they came, as wee've seen,--my lord
driving home in my lady's carridge, her ladyship and Miss walking up
stairs to their own apartmince.

Here, for a wonder, was poar Miss Kicksey quite happy and smiling, and
evidently full of a secret,--something mighty pleasant, to judge from
her loox. She did not long keep it. As she was making tea for the ladies
(for in that house they took a cup regular before bedtime), "Well, my
lady," says she, "who do you think has been to drink tea with me?" Poar
thing, a frendly face was a event in her life--a tea-party quite a hera!

"Why, perhaps, Lenoir my maid," says my lady, looking grave. "I wish,
Miss Kicksey, you would not demean yourself by mixing with my domestics.
Recollect, madam, that you are sister to Lady Griffin."

"No, my lady, it was not Lenoir; it was a gentleman, and a handsome
gentleman, too."

"Oh, it was Monsieur de l'Orge, then," says Miss; "he promised to bring
me some guitar-strings."

"No, nor yet M. de l'Orge. He came, but was not so polite as to ask
for me. What do you think of your own beau, the Honorable Mr. Algernon
Deuceace;" and, so saying, poar Kicksey clapped her hands together, and
looked as joyfle as if she'd come in to a fortin.

"Mr. Deuceace here; and why, pray?" says my lady, who recklected all
that his exlent pa had been saying to her.

"Why, in the first place, he had left his pocket-book, and in the
second, he wanted, he said, a dish of my nice tea; which he took, and
stayed with me an hour, or moar."

"And pray, Miss Kicksey," said Miss Matilda, quite contempshusly, "what
may have been the subject of your conversation with Mr. Algernon? Did
you talk politics, or music, or fine arts, or metaphysics?" Miss M.
being what was called a blue (as most hump-backed women in sosiaty are),
always made a pint to speak on these grand subjects.

"No, indeed; he talked of no such awful matters. If he had, you know,
Matilda, I should never have understood him. First we talked about the
weather, next about muffins and crumpets. Crumpets, he said, he liked
best; and then we talked" (here Miss Kicksey's voice fell) "about poor
dear Sir George in heaven! what a good husband he was, and--"

"What a good fortune he left, eh, Miss Kicksey?" says my lady, with a
hard, snearing voice, and a diabollicle grin.

"Yes, dear Leonora, he spoke so respectfully of your blessed husband,
and seemed so anxious about you and Matilda, it was quite charming to
hear him, dear man!"

"And pray, Miss Kicksey, what did you tell him?"

"Oh, I told him that you and Leonora had nine thousand a year, and--"

"What then?"

"Why, nothing; that is all I know. I am sure I wish I had ninety," says
poor Kicksey, her eyes turning to heaven.

"Ninety fiddlesticks! Did not Mr. Deuceace ask how the money was left,
and to which of us?"

"Yes; but I could not tell him."

"I knew it!" says my lady, slapping down her tea-cup,--"I knew it!"

"Well!" says Miss Matilda, "and why not, Lady Griffin? There is no
reason you should break your tea-cup, because Algernon asks a harmless
question. HE is not mercenary; he is all candor, innocence, generosity!
He is himself blessed with a sufficient portion of the world's goods to
be content; and often and often has he told me he hoped the woman of his
choice might come to him without a penny, that he might show the purity
of his affection."

"I've no doubt," says my lady. "Perhaps the lady of his choice is Miss
Matilda Griffin!" and she flung out of the room, slamming the door, and
leaving Miss Matilda to bust into tears, as was her reglar custom, and
pour her loves and woas into the buzzom of Miss Kicksey.


CHAPTER IV.

"HITTING THE NALE ON THE HEDD."


The nex morning, down came me and master to Lady Griffinses,--I amusing
myself with the gals in the antyroom, he paying his devours to the
ladies in the salong. Miss was thrumming on her gitter; my lady was
before a great box of papers, busy with accounts, bankers' books,
lawyers' letters, and what not. Law bless us! it's a kind of bisniss I
should like well enuff; especially when my hannual account was seven or
eight thousand on the right side, like my lady's. My lady in this house
kep all these matters to herself. Miss was a vast deal too sentrimentle
to mind business.

Miss Matilda's eyes sparkled as master came in; she pinted gracefully to
a place on the sofy beside her, which Deuceace took. My lady only looked
up for a moment, smiled very kindly, and down went her head among the
papers agen, as busy as a B.

"Lady Griffin has had letters from London," says Miss, "from nasty
lawyers and people. Come here and sit by me, you naughty man you!"

And down sat master. "Willingly," says he, "my dear Miss Griffin; why, I
declare, it is quits a tete-a-tete."

"Well," says Miss (after the prillimnary flumries, in coarse), "we met a
friend of yours at the embassy, Mr. Deuceace."

"My father, doubtless; he is a great friend of the ambassador, and
surprised me myself by a visit the night before last."

"What a dear delightful old man! how he loves you, Mr. Deuceace!"

"Oh, amazingly!" says master, throwing his i's to heaven.

"He spoke of nothing but you, and such praises of you!"

Master breathed more freely. "He is very good, my dear father; but
blind, as all fathers are, he is so partial and attached to me."

"He spoke of you being his favorite child, and regretted that you were
not his eldest son. 'I can but leave him the small portion of a younger
brother,' he said; 'but never mind, he has talents, a noble name, and an
independence of his own.'"

"An independence? yes, oh yes; I am quite independent of my father."

"Two thousand pounds a year left you by your godmother; the very same
you told us you know."

"Neither more nor less," says master, bobbing his head; "a sufficiency,
my dear Miss Griffin,--to a man of my moderate habits an ample
provision."

"By-the-by," cries out Lady Griffin, interrupting the conversation, "you
who are talking about money matters there, I wish you would come to the
aid of poor ME! Come, naughty boy, and help me out with this long long
sum."

DIDN'T HE GO--that's all! My i, how his i's shone, as he skipt across
the room, and seated himself by my lady!

"Look!" said she, "my agents write me over that they have received a
remittance of 7,200 rupees, at 2s. 9d. a rupee. Do tell me what the sum
is, in pounds and shillings;" which master did with great gravity.

"Nine hundred and ninety pounds. Good; I daresay you are right. I'm sure
I can't go through the fatigue to see. And now comes another question.
Whose money is this, mine or Matilda's? You see it is the interest of a
sum in India, which we have not had occasion to touch; and, according to
the terms of poor Sir George's will, I really don't know how to dispose
of the money except to spend it. Matilda, what shall we do with it?"

"La, ma'am, I wish you would arrange the business yourself."

"Well, then, Algernon, YOU tell me;" and she laid her hand on his and
looked him most pathetickly in the face.

"Why," says he, "I don't know how Sir George left his money; you must
let me see his will, first."

"Oh, willingly."

Master's chair seemed suddenly to have got springs in the cushns; he was
obliged to HOLD HIMSELF DOWN.

"Look here, I have only a copy, taken by my hand from Sir George's own
manuscript. Soldiers, you know, do not employ lawyers much, and this
was written on the night before going into action." And she read, "'I,
George Griffin,' &c. &c.--you know how these things begin--'being now of
sane mind'--um, um, um,--'leave to my friends, Thomas Abraham Hicks,
a colonel in the H. E. I. Company's Service, and to John Monro
Mackirkincroft (of the house of Huffle, Mackirkincroft, and Dobbs, at
Calcutta), the whole of my property, to be realized as speedily as they
may (consistently with the interests of the property), in trust for
my wife, Leonora Emilia Griffin (born L. E. Kicksey), and my only
legitimate child, Matilda Griffin. The interest resulting from such
property to be paid to them, share and share alike; the principal
to remain untouched, in the names of the said T. A. Hicks and J. M.
Mackirkincroft, until the death of my wife, Leonora Emilia Griffin, when
it shall be paid to my daughter, Matilda Griffin, her heirs, executors,
or assigns.'"

"There," said my lady, "we won't read any more; all the rest is stuff.
But now you know the whole business, tell us what is to be done with the
money?"

"Why, the money, unquestionably, should be divided between you."

"Tant mieux, say I; I really thought it had been all Matilda's."

     .     .     .     .     .     .

There was a paws for a minit or two after the will had been read. Master
left the desk at which he had been seated with her ladyship, paced up
and down the room for a while, and then came round to the place where
Miss Matilda was seated. At last he said, in a low, trembling voice,--

"I am almost sorry, my dear Lady Griffin, that you have read that will
to me; for an attachment such as mine must seem, I fear, mercenary,
when the object of it is so greatly favored by worldly fortune. Miss
Griffin--Matilda! I know I may say the word; your dear eyes grant me the
permission. I need not tell you, or you, dear mother-in-law, how long,
how fondly, I have adored you. My tender, my beautiful Matilda, I will
not affect to say I have not read your heart ere this, and that I have
not known the preference with which you have honored me. SPEAK IT,
dear girl! from your own sweet lips: in the presence of an affectionate
parent, utter the sentence which is to seal my happiness for life.
Matilda, dearest Matilda! say, oh say, that you love me!"

Miss M. shivered, turned pail, rowled her eyes about, and fell on
master's neck, whispering hodibly, "I DO!"

My lady looked at the pair for a moment with her teeth grinding, her i's
glaring, her busm throbbing, and her face chock white; for all the world
like Madam Pasty, in the oppra of "Mydear" (when she's goin to mudder
her childring, you recklect); and out she flounced from the room,
without a word, knocking down poar me, who happened to be very near the
dor, and leaving my master along with his crook-back mistress.

I've repotted the speech he made to her pretty well. The fact is, I got
it in a ruff copy; only on the copy it's wrote, "Lady Griffin, Leonora!"
instead of "Miss Griffin, Matilda," as in the abuff, and so on.

Master had hit the right nail on the head this time, he thought: but his
adventors an't over yet.


CHAPTER V.

THE GRIFFIN'S CLAWS.


Well, master had hit the right nail on the head this time: thanx to
luck--the crooked one, to be sure, but then it had the GOOLD NOBB, which
was the part Deuceace most valued, as well he should; being a connyshure
as to the relletiff valyou of pretious metals, and much preferring
virging goold like this to poor old battered iron like my Lady Griffin.

And so, in spite of his father (at which old noblemin Mr. Deuceace now
snapt his fingers), in spite of his detts (which, to do him Justas, had
never stood much in his way), and in spite of his povatty, idleness,
extravagans, swindling, and debotcheries of all kinds (which an't
GENERALLY very favorable to a young man who has to make his way in the
world); in spite of all, there he was, I say, at the topp of the trea,
the fewcher master of a perfect fortun, the defianced husband of a
fool of a wife. What can mortial man want more? Vishns of ambishn now
occupied his soal. Shooting boxes, oppra boxes, money boxes always full;
hunters at Melton; a seat in the house of Commins: heaven knows what!
and not a poar footman, who only describes what he's seen, and can't, in
cors, pennytrate into the idears and the busms of men.

You may be shore that the three-cornered noats came pretty thick now
from the Griffinses. Miss was always a-writing them befoar; and now,
nite, noon, and mornink, breakfast, dinner, and sopper, in they came,
till my pantry (for master never read 'em, and I carried 'em out) was
puffickly intolrabble from the odor of musk, ambygrease, bargymot, and
other sense with which they were impregniated. Here's the contense
of three on 'em, which I've kep in my dex these twenty years as
skeewriosities. Faw! I can smel 'em at this very minit, as I am copying
them down.


BILLY DOO. No. I.

"Monday morning, 2 o'clock.

"'Tis the witching hour of night. Luna illumines my chamber, and falls
upon my sleepless pillow. By her light I am inditing these words to
thee, my Algernon. My brave and beautiful, my soul's lord! when shall
the time come when the tedious night shall not separate us, nor the
blessed day? Twelve! one! two! I have heard the bells chime, and the
quarters, and never cease to think of my husband. My adored Percy,
pardon the girlish confession,--I have kissed the letter at this place.
Will thy lips press it too, and remain for a moment on the spot which
has been equally saluted by your

"MATILDA?"


This was the FUST letter, and was brot to our house by one of the poar
footmin, Fitzclarence, at sicks o'clock in the morning. I thot it was
for life and death, and woak master at that extraornary hour, and gave
it to him. I shall never forgit him, when he red it; he cramped it up,
and he cust and swoar, applying to the lady who roat, the genlmn that
brought it, and me who introjuiced it to his notice such a collection of
epitafs as I seldum hered, excep at Billinxgit. The fact is thiss; for a
fust letter, miss's noat was RATHER too strong and sentymentle. But that
was her way; she was always reading melancholy stoary books--"Thaduse of
Wawsaw," the "Sorrows of MacWhirter," and such like.

After about 6 of them, master never yoused to read them, but handid them
over to me, to see if there was anythink in them which must be answered,
in order to kip up appearuntses. The next letter is


No. II.

"BELOVED! to what strange madnesses will passion lead one! Lady Griffin,
since your avowal yesterday, has not spoken a word to your poor Matilda;
has declared that she will admit no one (heigho! not even you, my
Algernon); and has locked herself in her own dressing-room. I do believe
that she is JEALOUS, and fancies that you were in love with HER! Ha, ha!
I could have told her ANOTHER TALE--n'est-ce pas? Adieu, adieu, adieu! A
thousand thousand million kisses!

"M. G.

"Monday afternoon, 2 o'clock."


There was another letter kem before bedtime; for though me and master
called at the Griffinses, we wairnt aloud to enter at no price. Mortimer
and Fitzclarence grin'd at me, as much as to say we were going to be
relations; but I don't spose master was very sorry when he was obleached
to come back without seeing the fare objict of his affeckshns.

Well, on Chewsdy there was the same game; ditto on Wensday; only, when
we called there, who should we see but our father, Lord Crabs, who was
waiving his hand to Miss Kicksey, and saying HE SHOULD BE BACK TO DINNER
AT 7, just as me and master came up the stares. There was no admittns
for us though. "Bah! bah! never mind," says my lord, taking his
son affeckshnately by the hand. "What, two strings to your bow; ay,
Algernon? The dowager a little jealous, miss a little lovesick. But my
lady's fit of anger will vanish, and I promise you, my boy, that you
shall see your fair one to-morrow."

And so saying, my lord walked master down stares, looking at him as
tender and affeckshnat, and speaking to him as sweet as posbill. Master
did not know what to think of it. He never new what game his old father
was at; only he somehow felt that he had got his head in a net, in spite
of his suxess on Sunday. I knew it--I knew it quite well, as soon as I
saw the old genlmn igsammin him by a kind of smile which came over his
old face, and was somethink betwigst the angellic and the direbollicle.

But master's dowts were cleared up nex day and every thing was bright
again. At brexfast, in comes a note with inclosier, boath of witch I
here copy:--


No. IX.

"Thursday morning.

"Victoria, Victoria! Mamma has yielded at last; not her consent to our
union, but her consent to receive you as before; and has promised
to forget the past. Silly woman, how could she ever think of you as
anything but the lover of your Matilda? I am in a whirl of delicious
joy and passionate excitement. I have been awake all this long night,
thinking of thee, my Algernon, and longing for the blissful hour of
meeting.

"Come! M. G."


This is the inclosier from my lady:--


"I will not tell you that your behavior on Sunday did not deeply shock
me. I had been foolish enough to think of other plans, and to fancy your
heart (if you had any) was fixed elsewhere than on one at whose foibles
you have often laughed with me, and whose person at least cannot have
charmed you.

"My step-daughter will not, I presume, marry without at least going
through the ceremony of asking my consent; I cannot, as yet, give it.
Have I not reason to doubt whether she will be happy in trusting herself
to you?

"But she is of age, and has the right to receive in her own house all
those who may be agreeable to her,--certainly you, who are likely to be
one day so nearly connected with her. If I have honest reason to believe
that your love for Miss Griffin is sincere; if I find in a few months
that you yourself are still desirous to marry her, I can, of course,
place no further obstacles in your way.

"You are welcome, then, to return to our hotel. I cannot promise to
receive you as I did of old; you would despise me if I did. I can
promise, however, to think no more of all that has passed between
us, and yield up my own happiness for that of the daughter of my dear
husband.

"L. E. G."


Well, now, an't this a manly, straitforard letter enough, and natral
from a woman whom we had, to confess the truth, treated most scuvvily?
Master thought so, and went and made a tender, respeckful speach to Lady
Griffin (a little flumry costs nothink). Grave and sorroflle he kist her
hand, and, speakin in a very low adgitayted voice, calld Hevn to witness
how he deplord that his conduct should ever have given rise to such an
unfornt ideer; but if he might offer her esteem, respect, the warmest
and tenderest admiration, he trusted she would accept the same, and a
deal moar flumry of the kind, with dark, sollum glansis of the eyes, and
plenty of white pockit-hankercher.

He thought he'd make all safe. Poar fool! he was in a net--sich a net as
I never yet see set to ketch a roag in.


CHAPTER VI.

THE JEWEL.


The Shevalier de l'Orge, the young Frenchmin whom I wrote of in my last,
who had been rather shy of his visits while master was coming it so
very strong, now came back to his old place by the side of Lady Griffin:
there was no love now, though, betwigst him and master, although the
shevallier had got his lady back agin; Deuceace being compleatly devoted
to his crookid Veanus.

The shevalier was a little, pale, moddist, insinifishnt creature; and I
shoodn't have thought, from his appearants, would have the heart to do
harm to a fli, much less to stand befor such a tremendious tiger and
fire-eater as my master. But I see putty well, after a week, from his
manner of going on--of speakin at master, and lookin at him, and olding
his lips tight when Deuceace came into the room, and glaring at him with
his i's, that he hated the Honrabble Algernon Percy.

Shall I tell you why? Because my Lady Griffin hated him: hated him wuss
than pison, or the devvle, or even wuss than her daughter-in-law. Praps
you phansy that the letter you have juss red was honest; praps you
amadgin that the sean of the reading of the will came on by mere chans,
and in the reglar cors of suckmstansies: it was all a GAME, I tell
you--a reglar trap; and that extrodnar clever young man, my master, as
neatly put his foot into it, as ever a pocher did in fesnt preserve.

The shevalier had his q from Lady Griffin. When Deuceace went off the
feald, back came De l'Orge to her feet, not a witt less tender than
befor. Por fellow, por fellow! he really loved this woman. He might as
well have foln in love with a bore-constructor! He was so blinded and
beat by the power wich she had got over him, that if she told him black
was white he'd beleave it, or if she ordered him to commit murder, he'd
do it: she wanted something very like it, I can tell you.

I've already said how, in the fust part of their acquaintance, master
used to laff at De l'Orge's bad Inglish, and funny ways. The little
creature had a thowsnd of these; and being small, and a Frenchman,
master, in cors, looked on him with that good-humored kind of contemp
which a good Brittn ot always to show. He rayther treated him like an
intelligent munky than a man, and ordered him about as if he'd bean my
lady's footman.

All this munseer took in very good part, until after the quarl betwigst
master and Lady Griffin; when that lady took care to turn the tables.
Whenever master and miss were not present (as I've heard the servants
say), she used to laff at shevalliay for his obeajance and sivillatty
to master. For her part, she wondered how a man of his birth could act
a servnt: how any man could submit to such contemsheous behavior from
another; and then she told him how Deuceace was always snearing at him
behind his back; how, in fact, he ought to hate him corjaly, and how it
was suttaly time to show his sperrit.

Well, the poar little man beleaved all this from his hart, and was angry
or pleased, gentle or quarlsum, igsactly as my lady liked. There got
to be frequint rows betwigst him and master; sharp words flung at each
other across the dinner-table; dispewts about handing ladies their
smeling-botls, or seeing them to their carridge; or going in and out of
a roam fust, or any such nonsince.

"For hevn's sake," I heerd my lady, in the midl of one of these tiffs,
say, pail, and the tears trembling in her i's, "do, do be calm, Mr.
Deuceace. Monsieur de l'Orge, I beseech you to forgive him. You are,
both of you, so esteemed, lov'd, by members of this family, that for its
peace as well as your own, you should forbear to quarrel."

It was on the way to the Sally Mangy that this brangling had begun, and
it ended jest as they were seating themselves. I shall never forgit poar
little De l'Orge's eyes, when my lady said "both of you." He stair'd
at my lady for a momint, turned pail, red, look'd wild, and then, going
round to master, shook his hand as if he would have wrung it off. Mr.
Deuceace only bow'd and grin'd, and turned away quite stately; Miss
heaved a loud O from her busm, and looked up in his face with an
igspreshn jest as if she could have eat him up with love; and the little
shevalliay sate down to his soop-plate, and wus so happy, that I'm blest
if he wasn't crying! He thought the widdow had made her declyration, and
would have him; and so thought Deuceace, who look'd at her for some time
mighty bitter and contempshus, and then fell a-talking with Miss.

Now, though master didn't choose to marry Lady Griffin, as he might have
done, he yet thought fit to be very angry at the notion of her marrying
anybody else; and so, consquintly, was in a fewry at this confision
which she had made regarding her parshaleaty for the French shevaleer.

And this I've perseaved in the cors of my expearants through life, that
when you vex him, a roag's no longer a roag: you find him out at onst
when he's in a passion, for he shows, as it ware, his cloven foot the
very instnt you tread on it. At least, this is what YOUNG roags do; it
requires very cool blood and long practis to get over this pint, and not
to show your pashn when you feel it and snarl when you are angry. Old
Crabs wouldn't do it; being like another noblemin, of whom I heard the
Duke of Wellington say, while waiting behind his graci's chair, that if
you were kicking him from behind, no one standing before him would know
it, from the bewtifle smiling igspreshn of his face. Young master hadn't
got so far in the thief's grammer, and, when he was angry, show'd it.
And it's also to be remarked (a very profownd observatin for a footmin,
but we have i's though we DO wear plush britchis), it's to be remarked,
I say, that one of these chaps is much sooner maid angry than another,
because honest men yield to other people, roags never do; honest men
love other people, roags only themselves; and the slightest thing which
comes in the way of thir beloved objects sets them fewrious. Master
hadn't led a life of gambling, swindling, and every kind of debotch to
be good-tempered at the end of it, I prommis you.

He was in a pashun, and when he WAS in a pashn, a more insalent,
insuffrable, overbearing broot didn't live.

This was the very pint to which my lady wished to bring him; for I must
tell you, that though she had been trying all her might to set master
and the shevalliay by the years, she had suxeaded only so far as to
make them hate each profowndly: but somehow or other, the 2 cox wouldn't
FIGHT.

I doan't think Deuceace ever suspected any game on the part of her
ladyship, for she carried it on so admirally, that the quarls which
daily took place betwigst him and the Frenchman never seemed to come
from her; on the contry, she acted as the reglar pease-maker between
them, as I've just shown in the tiff which took place at the door of
the Sally Mangy. Besides, the 2 young men, though reddy enough to snarl,
were natrally unwilling to come to bloes. I'll tell you why: being
friends, and idle, they spent their mornins as young fashnabbles
genrally do, at billiads, fensing, riding, pistle-shooting, or some such
improoving study. In billiads, master beat the Frenchman hollow (and
had won a pretious sight of money from him: but that's neither here nor
there, or, as the French say, ontry noo); at pistle-shooting, master
could knock down eight immidges out of ten, and De l'Orge seven; and in
fensing, the Frenchman could pink the Honorable Algernon down evry one
of his weskit buttns. They'd each of them been out more than onst, for
every Frenchman will fight, and master had been obleag'd to do so in the
cors of his bisniss; and knowing each other's curridg, as well as the
fact that either could put a hundrid bolls running into a hat at 30
yards, they wairnt very willing to try such exparrymence upon their own
hats with their own heads in them. So you see they kep quiet, and only
grould at each other.

But to-day Deuceace was in one of his thundering black humers; and when
in this way he wouldn't stop for man or devvle. I said that he walked
away from the shevalliay, who had given him his hand in his sudden bust
of joyfle good-humor; and who, I do bleave, would have hugd a she-bear,
so very happy was he. Master walked away from him pale and hotty, and,
taking his seat at table, no moor mindid the brandishments of Miss
Griffin, but only replied to them with a pshaw, or a dam at one of us
servnts, or abuse of the soop, or the wine; cussing and swearing like a
trooper, and not like a well-bred son of a noble British peer.

"Will your ladyship," says he, slivering off the wing of a pully ally
bashymall, "allow me to help you?"

"I thank you! no; but I will trouble Monsieur de l'Orge." And towards
that gnlmn she turned, with a most tender and fasnating smile.

"Your ladyship has taken a very sudden admiration for Mr. de l'Orge's
carving. You used to like mine once."

"You are very skilful; but to-day, if you will allow me, I will partake
of something a little simpler."

The Frenchman helped; and, being so happy, in cors, spilt the gravy.
A great blob of brown sos spurted on to master's chick, and myandrewed
down his shert-collar and virging-white weskit.

"Confound you!" says he, "M. de l'Orge, you have done this on purpose."
And down went his knife and fork, over went his tumbler of wine, a deal
of it into poar Miss Griffinses lap, who looked fritened and ready to
cry.

My lady bust into a fit of laffin, peel upon peel, as if it was the best
joak in the world. De l'Orge giggled and grin'd too. "Pardong," says he;
"meal pardong, mong share munseer." * And he looked as if he would have
done it again for a penny.

     * In the long dialogues, we have generally ventured to
     change the peculiar spelling of our friend Mr. Yellowplush.

The little Frenchman was quite in extasis; he found himself all of a
suddn at the very top of the trea; and the laff for onst turned against
his rivle: he actialy had the ordassaty to propose to my lady in English
to take a glass of wine.

"Veal you," says he, in his jargin, "take a glas of Madere viz me, mi
ladi?" And he looked round, as if he'd igsackly hit the English manner
and pronunciation.

"With the greatest pleasure," says Lady G., most graciously nodding at
him, and gazing at him as she drank up the wine. She'd refused master
before, and THIS didn't increase his good-humer.

Well, they went on, master snarling, snapping, and swearing, making
himself, I must confess, as much of a blaggard as any I ever see; and
my lady employing her time betwigst him and the shevalliay, doing every
think to irritate master, and flatter the Frenchmn. Desert came: and by
this time, Miss was stock-still with fright, the chevaleer half tipsy
with pleasure and gratafied vannaty, my lady puffickly raygent with
smiles and master bloo with rage.

"Mr. Deuceace," says my lady, in a most winning voice, after a little
chaffing (in which she only worked him up moar and moar), "may I trouble
you for a few of those grapes? they look delicious."

For answer, master seas'd hold of the grayp dish, and sent it sliding
down the table to De l'Orge; upsetting, in his way, fruit-plates,
glasses, dickanters, and heaven knows what.

"Monsieur de l'Orge," says he, shouting out at the top of his voice,
"have the goodness to help Lady Griffin. She wanted MY grapes long ago,
and has found out they are sour!"

     .     .     .     .     .     .

There was a dead paws of a moment or so.

     .     .     .     .     .     .

"Ah!" says my lady, "vous osez m'insulter, devant mes gens, dans ma
propre maison--c'est par trop fort, monsieur." And up she got, and flung
out of the room. Miss followed her, screeching out, "Mamma--for God's
sake--Lady Griffin!" and here the door slammed on the pair.

Her ladyship did very well to speak French. DE L'ORGE WOULD NOT HAVE
UNDERSTOOD HER ELSE; as it was he heard quite enough; and as the
door clikt too, in the presents of me, and Messeers Mortimer and
Fitzclarence, the family footmen, he walks round to my master, and hits
him a slap on the face, and says, "prends ca, menteur et lache!" which
means, "Take that, you liar and coward!"--rayther strong igspreshns for
one genlmn to use to another.

Master staggered back and looked bewildered; and then he gave a kind
of a scream, and then he made a run at the Frenchman, and then me and
Mortimer flung ourselves upon him, whilst Fitzclarence embraced the
shevalliay.

"A demain!" says he, clinching his little fist, and walking away, not
very sorry to git off.

When he was fairly down stares, we let go of master: who swallowed
a goblit of water, and then pawsing a little and pullout his pus, he
presented to Messeers Mortimer and Fitzclarence a luydor each. "I will
give you five more to-morrow," says he, "if you will promise to keep
this secrit."

And then he walked in to the ladies. "If you knew," says he, going up
to Lady Griffin, and speaking very slow (in cors we were all at the
keyhole), "the pain I have endured in the last minute, in consequence of
the rudeness and insolence of which I have been guilty to your ladyship,
you would think my own remorse was punishment sufficient, and would
grant me pardon."

My lady bowed, and said she didn't wish for explanations. Mr. Deuceace
was her daughter's guest, and not hers; but she certainly would never
demean herself by sitting again at table with him. And so saying out she
boltid again.

"Oh! Algernon! Algernon!" says Miss, in teers, "what is this dreadful
mystery--these fearful shocking quarrels? Tell me, has anything
happened? Where, where is the chevalier?"

Master smiled and said, "Be under no alarm, my sweetest Matilda. De
l'Orge did not understand a word of the dispute; he was too much in
love for that. He is but gone away for half an hour, I believe; and will
return to coffee."

I knew what master's game was, for if miss had got a hinkling of the
quarrel betwigst him and the Frenchman, we should have had her screeming
at the "Hotel Mirabeu," and the juice and all to pay. He only stopt
for a few minnits and cumfitted her, and then drove off to his friend,
Captain Bullseye, of the Rifles; with whom, I spose, he talked over this
unplesnt bisniss. We fownd, at our hotel, a note from De l'Orge, saying
where his secknd was to be seen.

Two mornings after there was a parrowgraf in Gallynanny's Messinger,
which I hear beg leaf to transcribe:--


"FEARFUL DUEL.--Yesterday morning, at six o'clock, a meeting took place,
in the Bois de Boulogne, between the Hon. A. P. D--ce-ce, a younger son
of the Earl of Cr-bs, and the Chevalier de l'O---. The chevalier was
attended by Major de M---, of the Royal Guard, and the Hon. Mr. D---
by Captain B-lls-ye, of the British Rifle Corps. As far as we have been
able to learn the particulars of this deplorable affair, the dispute
originated in the house of a lovely lady (one of the most brilliant
ornaments of our embassy), and the duel took place on the morning
ensuing.

"The chevalier (the challenged party, and the most accomplished amateur
swordsman in Paris) waived his right of choosing the weapons, and the
combat took place with pistols.

"The combatants were placed at forty paces, with directions to advance
to a barrier which separated them only eight paces. Each was furnished
with two pistols. Monsieur de l'O--- fired almost immediately, and the
ball took effect in the left wrist of his antagonist, who dropped the
pistol which he held in that hand. He fired, however, directly with his
right, and the chevalier fell to the ground, we fear mortally wounded. A
ball has entered above his hip-joint, and there is very little hope that
he can recover.

"We have heard that the cause of this desperate duel was a blow which
the chevalier ventured to give to the Hon. Mr. D. If so, there is some
reason for the unusual and determined manner in which the duel was
fought.

"Mr. Deu--a-e returned to his hotel; whither his excellent father, the
Right Hon. Earl of Cr-bs, immediately hastened on hearing of the sad
news, and is now bestowing on his son the most affectionate parental
attention. The news only reached his lordship yesterday at noon, while
at breakfast with his Excellency Lord Bobtail, our ambassador. The noble
earl fainted on receiving the intelligence; but in spite of the shock to
his own nerves and health, persisted in passing last night by the couch
of his son."


And so he did. "This is a sad business, Charles," says my lord to me,
after seeing his son, and settling himself down in our salong. "Have you
any segars in the house? And hark ye, send me up a bottle of wine and
some luncheon. I can certainly not leave the neighborhood of my dear
boy."


CHAPTER VII.

THE CONSQUINSIES.


The shevalliay did not die, for the ball came out of its own accord, in
the midst of a violent fever and inflamayshn which was brot on by the
wound. He was kept in bed for 6 weeks though, and did not recover for a
long time after.

As for master, his lot, I'm sorry to say, was wuss than that of his
advisary. Inflammation came on too; and, to make an ugly story short,
they were obliged to take off his hand at the rist.

He bore it, in cors, like a Trojin, and in a month he too was well, and
his wound heel'd; but I never see a man look so like a devvle as he used
sometimes, when he looked down at the stump!

To be sure, in Miss Griffinses eyes, this only indeerd him the mor. She
sent twenty noats a day to ask for him, calling him her beloved, her
unfortunat, her hero, her wictim, and I dono what. I've kep some of the
noats, as I tell you, and curiously sentimentle they are, beating the
sorrows of MacWhirter all to nothing.

Old Crabs used to come offen, and consumed a power of wine and seagars
at our house. I bleave he was at Paris because there was an exycution
in his own house in England; and his son was a sure find (as they say)
during his illness, and couldn't deny himself to the old genlmn. His
eveninx my lord spent reglar at Lady Griffin's; where, as master was
ill, I didn't go any more now, and where the shevalier wasn't there to
disturb him.

"You see how that woman hates you, Deuceace," says my lord, one day, in
a fit of cander, after they had been talking about Lady Griffin: "SHE
HAS NOT DONE WITH YOU YET, I tell you fairly."

"Curse her," says master, in a fury, lifting up his maim'd arm--"curse
her! but I will be even with her one day. I am sure of Matilda: I took
care to put that beyond the reach of a failure. The girl must marry me,
for her own sake."

"FOR HER OWN SAKE! O ho! Good, good!" My lord lifted his i's, and said
gravely, "I understand, my dear boy: it is an excellent plan."

"Well," says master, grinning fearcely and knowingly at his exlent old
father, "as the girl is safe, what harm can I fear from the fiend of a
step-mother?"

My lord only gev a long whizzle, and, soon after, taking up his hat,
walked off. I saw him sawnter down the Plas Vandome, and go in quite
calmly to the old door of Lady Griffinses hotel. Bless his old face!
such a puffickly good-natured, kind-hearted, merry, selfish old
scoundrel, I never shall see again.

His lordship was quite right in saying to master that "Lady Griffin
hadn't done with him." No moar she had. But she never would have thought
of the nex game she was going to play, IF SOMEBODY HADN'T PUT HER UP TO
IT. Who did? If you red the above passidge, and saw how a venrabble old
genlmn took his hat, and sauntered down the Plas Vandome (looking hard
and kind at all the nussary-maids--buns they call them in France--in
the way), I leave you to guess who was the author of the nex scheam: a
woman, suttnly, never would have pitcht on it.

In the fuss payper which I wrote concerning Mr. Deuceace's adventers,
and his kind behayvior to Messrs. Dawkins and Blewitt, I had the honor
of laying before the public a skidewl of my master's detts, in witch was
the following itim:


     "Bills of xchange and I.O.U.'s, 4963L. 0s. 0d."


The I.O.U.se were trifling, say a thowsnd pound. The bills amountid to
four thowsnd moar.

Now, the lor is in France, that if a genlmn gives these in England, and
a French genlmn gits them in any way, he can pursew the Englishman who
has drawn them, even though he should be in France. Master did not know
this fact--laboring under a very common mistak, that, when onst out of
England, he might wissle at all the debts he left behind him.

My Lady Griffin sent over to her slissators in London, who made
arrangemints with the persons who possest the fine collection of
ortografs on stampt paper which master had left behind him; and they
were glad enuff to take any oppertunity of getting back their money.

One fine morning, as I was looking about in the court-yard of our
hotel, talking to the servant-gals, as was my reglar custom, in order to
improve myself in the French languidge, one of them comes up to me and
says, "Tenez, Monsieur Charles, down below in the office there is
a bailiff, with a couple of gendarmes, who is asking for your
master--a-t-il des dettes par hasard?"

I was struck all of a heap--the truth flasht on my mind's hi.
"Toinette," says I, for that was the gal's name--"Toinette," says
I, giving her a kiss, "keep them for two minits, as you valyou my
affeckshn;" and then I gave her another kiss, and ran up stares to our
chambers. Master had now pretty well recovered of his wound, and was
aloud to drive abowt: it was lucky for him that he had the strength to
move. "Sir, sir," says I, "the bailiffs are after you, and you must run
for your life."

"Bailiff?" says he: "nonsense! I don't, thank heaven, owe a shilling to
any man."

"Stuff, sir," says I, forgetting my respeck; "don't you owe money in
England? I tell you the bailiffs are here, and will be on you in a
moment."

As I spoke, cling cling, ling ling, goes the bell of the antyshamber,
and there they were sure enough!

What was to be done? Quick as litening, I throws off my livry coat,
claps my goold lace hat on master's head, and makes him put on my livry.
Then I wraps myself up in his dressing-gown, and lolling down on the
sofa, bids him open the dor.

There they were--the bailiff--two jondarms with him--Toinette, and an
old waiter. When Toinette sees master, she smiles, and says: "Dis donc,
Charles! ou est donc ton maitre? Chez lui, n'est-ce pas? C'est le jeune
a monsieur," says she, curtsying to the bailiff.

The old waiter was just a-going to blurt out, "Mais ce n'est pas!" when
Toinette stops him, and says, "Laissez donc passer ces messieurs, vieux
bete;" and in they walk, the 2 jon d'arms taking their post in the hall.

Master throws open the salong doar very gravely, and touching MY hat
says, "Have you any orders about the cab, sir?"

"Why, no, Chawls," says I; "I shan't drive out to-day."

The old bailiff grinned, for he understood English (having had plenty
of English customers), and says in French, as master goes out, "I think,
sir, you had better let your servant get a coach, for I am under the
painful necessity of arresting you, au nom de la loi, for the sum of
ninety-eight thousand seven hundred francs, owed by you to the Sieur
Jacques Francois Lebrun, of Paris;" and he pulls out a number of bills,
with master's acceptances on them sure enough.

"Take a chair, sir," says I; and down he sits; and I began to chaff him,
as well as I could, about the weather, my illness, my sad axdent, having
lost one of my hands, which was stuck into my busum, and so on.

At last, after a minnit or two, I could contane no longer, and bust out
in a horse laff.

The old fellow turned quite pail, and began to suspect somethink.
"Hola!" says he; "gendarmes! a moi! a moi! Je suis floue, vole," which
means, in English, that he was reglar sold.

The jondarmes jumped into the room, and so did Toinette and the
waiter. Grasefly rising from my arm-chare, I took my hand from my
dressing-gownd, and, flinging it open, stuck up on the chair one of the
neatest legs ever seen.

I then pinted majestickly--to what do you think?--to my PLUSH TITES!
those sellabrated inigspressables which have rendered me famous in
Yourope.

Taking the hint, the jondarmes and the servnts rord out laffing; and
so did Charles Yellowplush, Esquire, I can tell you. Old Grippard the
bailiff looked as if he would faint in his chare.

I heard a kab galloping like mad out of the hotel-gate, and knew then
that my master was safe.


CHAPTER VIII.

THE END OF MR. DEUCEACE'S HISTORY. LIMBO.


My tail is droring rabidly to a close; my suvvice with Mr. Deuceace
didn't continyou very long after the last chapter, in which I described
my admiral strattyjam, and my singlar self-devocean. There's very few
servnts, I can tell you, who'd have thought of such a contrivance, and
very few moar would have eggsycuted it when thought of.

But, after all, beyond the trifling advantich to myself in selling
master's roab de sham, which you, gentle reader, may remember I woar,
and in dixcovering a fipun note in one of the pockets,--beyond this,
I say, there was to poar master very little advantich in what had been
done. It's true he had escaped. Very good. But Frans is not like Great
Brittin; a man in a livry coat, with 1 arm, is pretty easily known, and
caught, too, as I can tell you.

Such was the case with master. He coodn leave Paris, moarover, if he
would. What was to become, in that case, of his bride--his unchbacked
hairis? He knew that young lady's temprimong (as the Parishers say) too
well to let her long out of his site. She had nine thousand a yer.
She'd been in love a duzn times befor, and mite be agin. The Honrabble
Algernon Deuceace was a little too wide awake to trust much to the
constnsy of so very inflammable a young creacher. Heavn bless us, it was
a marycle she wasn't earlier married! I do bleave (from suttn seans
that past betwigst us) that she'd have married me, if she hadn't been
sejuiced by the supearor rank and indianuity of the genlmn in whose
survace I was.

Well, to use a commin igspreshn, the beaks were after him. How was he to
manitch? He coodn get away from his debts, and he wooden quit the fare
objict of his affeckshns. He was ableejd, then, as the French say, to
lie perdew,--going out at night, like a howl out of a hivy-bush, and
returning in the daytime to his roast. For its a maxum in France (and I
wood it were followed in Ingland), that after dark no man is lible for
his detts; and in any of the royal gardens--the Twillaries, the Pally
Roil, or the Lucksimbug, for example--a man may wander from sunrise to
evening, and hear nothing of the ojus dunns: they an't admitted into
these places of public enjyment and rondyvoo any more than dogs; the
centuries at the garden-gates having orders to shuit all such.

Master, then, was in this uncomfrable situation--neither liking to go
nor to stay! peeping out at nights to have an interview with his miss;
ableagd to shuffle off her repeated questions as to the reason of all
this disgeise, and to talk of his two thowsnd a year jest as if he had
it and didn't owe a shilling in the world.

Of course, now, he began to grow mighty eager for the marritch.

He roat as many noats as she had done befor; swoar against delay and
cerymony; talked of the pleasures of Hyming, the ardship that the ardor
of two arts should be allowed to igspire, the folly of waiting for the
consent of Lady Griffin. She was but a step-mother, and an unkind one.
Miss was (he said) a major, might marry whom she liked; and suttnly had
paid Lady G. quite as much attention as she ought, by paying her the
compliment to ask her at all.

And so they went on. The curious thing was, that when master was pressed
about his cause for not coming out till night-time, he was misterus;
and Miss Griffin, when asked why she wooden marry, igsprest, or rather,
DIDN'T igspress, a simlar secrasy. Wasn't it hard? the cup seemed to be
at the lip of both of 'em, and yet somehow, they could not manitch to
take a drink.

But one morning, in reply to a most desprat epistol wrote by my master
over night, Deuceace, delighted, gits an answer from his soal's beluffd,
which ran thus:--


MISS GRIFFIN TO THE HON. A. P. DEUCEACE.

"DEAREST,--You say you would share a cottage with me; there is no need,
luckily, for that! You plead the sad sinking of your spirits at
our delayed union. Beloved, do you think MY heart rejoices at our
separation? You bid me disregard the refusal of Lady Griffin, and tell
me that I owe her no further duty.

"Adored Algernon! I can refuse you no more. I was willing not to lose a
single chance of reconciliation with this unnatural step-mother. Respect
for the memory of my sainted father bid me do all in my power to gain
her consent to my union with you: nay, shall I own it? prudence dictated
the measure; for to whom should she leave the share of money accorded to
her by my father's will but to my father's child.

"But there are bounds beyond which no forbearance can go; and, thank
heaven, we have no need of looking to Lady Griffin for sordid wealth: we
have a competency without her. Is it not so, dearest Algernon?

"Be it as you wish, then, dearest, bravest, and best. Your poor Matilda
has yielded to you her heart long ago; she has no longer need to keep
back her name. Name the hour, and I will delay no more; but seek for
refuge in your arms from the contumely and insult which meet me ever
here.

"MATILDA.

"P.S. Oh, Algernon! if you did but know what a noble part your dear
father has acted throughout, in doing his best endeavors to further
our plans, and to soften Lady Griffin! It is not his fault that she is
inexorable as she is. I send you a note sent by her to Lord Crabs; we
will laugh at it soon, n'est-ce pas?"


II.

"MY LORD,--In reply to your demand for Miss Griffin's hand, in favor of
your son, Mr. Algernon Deuceace, I can only repeat what I before have
been under the necessity of stating to you,--that I do not believe a
union with a person of Mr. Deuceace's character would conduce to my
stepdaughter's happiness, and therefore REFUSE MY CONSENT. I will
beg you to communicate the contents of this note to Mr. Deuceace; and
implore you no more to touch upon a subject which you must be aware is
deeply painful to me.

"I remain your lordship's most humble servant,

"L. E. GRIFFIN.

"THE RIGHT HON. THE EARL OF CRABS."


"Hang her ladyship!" says my master, "what care I for it?" As for the
old lord who'd been so afishous in his kindness and advice, master
recknsiled that pretty well, with thinking that his lordship knew he was
going to marry ten thousand a year, and igspected to get some share of
it; for he roat back the following letter to his father, as well as a
flaming one to Miss:


"Thank you, my dear father, for your kindness in that awkward business.
You know how painfully I am situated just now, and can pretty well guess
BOTH THE CAUSES of my disquiet. A marriage with my beloved Matilda will
make me the happiest of men. The dear girl consents, and laughs at
the foolish pretensions of her mother-in-law. To tell you the truth, I
wonder she yielded to them so long. Carry your kindness a step further,
and find for us a parson, a license, and make us two into one. We are
both major, you know; so that the ceremony of a guardian's consent is
unnecessary.

"Your affectionate

"ALGERNON DEUCEACE.

"How I regret that difference between us some time back! Matters are
changed now, and shall be more still AFTER THE MARRIAGE."


I knew what my master meant,--that he would give the old lord the money
after he was married; and as it was probble that miss would see the
letter he roat, he made it such as not to let her see two clearly into
his present uncomfrable situation.

I took this letter along with the tender one for Miss, reading both
of 'em, in course, by the way. Miss, on getting hers, gave an
inegspressable look with the white of her i's, kist the letter, and
prest it to her busm. Lord Crabs read his quite calm, and then they
fell a-talking together; and told me to wait awhile, and I should git an
anser.

After a deal of counseltation, my lord brought out a card, and there was
simply written on it,


     To-morrow, at the Ambassador's, at Twelve.


"Carry that back to your master, Chawls," says he, "and bid him not to
fail."

You may be sure I stept back to him pretty quick, and gave him the card
and the messinge. Master looked sattasfied with both; but suttnly
not over happy; no man is the day before his marridge; much more his
marridge with a hump-back, Harriss though she be.

Well, as he was a-going to depart this bachelor life, he did what every
man in such suckmstances ought to do; he made his will,--that is, he
made a dispasition of his property, and wrote letters to his creditors
telling them of his lucky chance; and that after his marridge he would
sutnly pay them every stiver. BEFORE, they must know his povvaty well
enough to be sure that paymint was out of the question.

To do him justas, he seam'd to be inclined to do the thing that was
right, now that it didn't put him to any inkinvenients to do so.

"Chawls," says he, handing me over a tenpun-note, "here's your wagis,
and thank you for getting me out of the scrape with the bailiffs: when
you are married, you shall be my valet out of liv'ry, and I'll treble
your salary."

His vallit! praps his butler! Yes, thought I, here's a chance--a vallit
to ten thousand a year. Nothing to do but to shave him, and read his
notes, and let my whiskers grow; to dress in spick and span black, and a
clean shut per day; muffings every night in the housekeeper's room; the
pick of the gals in the servants' hall; a chap to clean my boots for me,
and my master's opera bone reglar once a week. I knew what a vallit was
as well as any genlmn in service; and this I can tell you, he's genrally
a hapier, idler, handsomer, mor genlmnly man than his master. He
has more money to spend, for genlmn WILL leave their silver in their
waistcoat pockets; more suxess among the gals; as good dinners, and
as good wine--that is, if he's friends with the butler: and friends in
corse they will be if they know which way their interest lies.

But these are only cassels in the air, what the French call shutter
d'Espang. It wasn't roat in the book of fate that I was to be Mr.
Deuceace's vallit.

Days will pass at last--even days befor a wedding, (the longist and
unpleasantist day in the whole of a man's life, I can tell you, excep,
may be, the day before his hanging); and at length Aroarer dawned on
the suspicious morning which was to unite in the bonds of Hyming the
Honrable Algernon Percy Deuceace, Exquire, and Miss Matilda Griffin. My
master's wardrobe wasn't so rich as it had been; for he'd left the
whole of his nicknax and trumpry of dressing-cases and rob dy shams, his
bewtifle museum of varnished boots, his curous colleckshn of Stulz and
Staub coats, when he had been ableaged to quit so suddnly our pore dear
lodginx at the Hotel Mirabew; and being incog at a friend's house,
ad contentid himself with ordring a coople of shoots of cloves from a
common tailor, with a suffishnt quantaty of linning.

Well, he put on the best of his coats--a blue; and I thought it my duty
to ask him whether he'd want his frock again: he was good natured and
said, "Take it and be hanged to you." Half-past eleven o'clock came,
and I was sent to look out at the door, if there were any suspicious
charicters (a precious good nose I have to find a bailiff out, I can
tell you, and an i which will almost see one round a corner); and
presenly a very modest green glass coach droave up, and in master
stept. I didn't in corse, appear on the box; because, being known, my
appearints might have compromised master. But I took a short cut, and
walked as quick as posbil down to the Rue de Foburg St. Honore, where
his exlnsy the English ambasdor lives, and where marridges are always
performed betwigst English folk at Paris.

     .     .     .     .     .     .

There is, almost nex door to the ambasdor's hotel, another hotel, of
that lo kind which the French call cabbyrays, or wine-houses; and jest
as master's green glass-coach pulled up, another coach drove off, out of
which came two ladies, whom I knew pretty well,--suffiz, that one had
a humpback, and the ingenious reader will know why SHE came there; the
other was poor Miss Kicksey, who came to see her turned off.

Well, master's glass-coach droav up, jest as I got within a few yards of
the door; our carridge, I say, droav up, and stopt. Down gits coachmin
to open the door, and comes I to give Mr. Deuceace an arm, when out
of the cabaray shoot four fellows, and draw up betwigst the coach and
embassy-doar; two other chaps go to the other doar of the carridge, and,
opening it, one says--"Rendez-vous, M. Deuceace! Je vous arrete au nom
de la loi!" (which means, "Get out of that, Mr. D.; you are nabbed and
no mistake.") Master turned gashly pail, and sprung to the other side
of the coach, as if a serpint had stung him. He flung open the door, and
was for making off that way; but he saw the four chaps standing betwigst
libbarty and him. He slams down the front window, and screams out,
"Fouettez, cocher!" (which means, "Go it, coachmm!") in a despert loud
voice; but coachmin wooden go it, and besides was off his box.

The long and short of the matter was, that jest as I came up to the door
two of the bums jumped into the carridge. I saw all; I knew my duty, and
so very mornfly I got up behind.

"Tiens," says one of the chaps in the street; "c'est ce drole qui nous a
floure l'autre jour." I knew 'em, but was too melumcolly to smile.

"Ou irons-nous donc?" says coachmin to the genlmn who had got inside.

A deep woice from the intearor shouted out, in reply to the coachmin, "A
SAINTE PELAGIE!"

     .     .     .     .     .     .

And now, praps, I ot to dixcribe to you the humors of the prizn of
Sainte Pelagie, which is the French for Fleat, or Queen's Bentch: but on
this subject I'm rather shy of writing, partly because the admiral Boz
has, in the history of Mr. Pickwick, made such a dixcripshun of a prizn,
that mine wooden read very amyousingly afterwids; and, also, because,
to tell you the truth, I didn't stay long in it, being not in a humer to
waist my igsistance by passing away the ears of my youth in such a dull
place.

My fust errint now was, as you may phansy, to carry a noat from master
to his destined bride. The poar thing was sadly taken aback, as I can
tell you, when she found, after remaining two hours at the Embassy, that
her husband didn't make his appearance. And so, after staying on and on,
and yet seeing no husband, she was forsed at last to trudge dishconslit
home, where I was already waiting for her with a letter from my master.

There was no use now denying the fact of his arrest, and so he confest
it at onst: but he made a cock-and-bull story of treachery of a friend,
infimous fodgery, and heaven knows what. However, it didn't matter much;
if he had told her that he had been betrayed by the man in the moon, she
would have bleavd him.

Lady Griffin never used to appear now at any of my visits. She kep one
drawing-room, and Miss dined and lived alone in another; they quarld so
much that praps it was best they should live apart; only my Lord Crabs
used to see both, comforting each with that winning and innsnt way he
had. He came in as Miss, in tears, was lisning to my account of master's
seazure, and hoping that the prisn wasn't a horrid place, with a nasty
horrid dunjeon, and a dreadfle jailer, and nasty horrid bread and water.
Law bless us! she had borrod her ideers from the novvles she had been
reading!

"O my lord, my lord," says she, "have you heard this fatal story?"

"Dearest Matilda, what? For heaven's sake, you alarm me!
What--yes--no--is it--no, it can't be! Speak!" says my lord, seizing me
by the choler of my coat. "What has happened to my boy?"

"Please you, my lord," says I, "he's at this moment in prisn, no
wuss,--having been incarserated about two hours ago."

"In prison! Algernon in prison! 'tis impossible! Imprisoned, for what
sum? Mention it, and I will pay to the utmost farthing in my power."

"I'm sure your lordship is very kind," says I (recklecting the sean
betwixgst him and master, whom he wanted to diddil out of a thowsand
lb.); "and you'll be happy to hear he's only in for a trifle. Five
thousand pound is, I think, pretty near the mark."

"Five thousand pounds!--confusion!" says my lord, clasping his hands,
and looking up to heaven, "and I have not five hundred! Dearest Matilda,
how shall we help him?"

"Alas, my lord, I have but three guineas, and you know how Lady Griffin
has the--"

"Yes, my sweet child, I know what you would say; but be of good
cheer--Algernon, you know, has ample funds of his own."

Thinking my lord meant Dawkins's five thousand, of which, to be sure, a
good lump was left, I held my tung; but I cooden help wondering at Lord
Crabs's igstream compashn for his son, and Miss, with her 10,000L. a
year, having only 3 guineas is her pockit.

I took home (bless us, what a home!) a long and very inflamble letter
from Miss, in which she dixscribed her own sorror at the disappointment;
swoar she lov'd him only the moar for his misfortns; made light of them;
as a pusson for a paltry sum of five thousand pound ought never to be
cast down, 'specially as he had a certain independence in view; and
vowed that nothing, nothing, should ever injuice her to part from him,
etsettler, etsettler.

I told master of the conversation which had past betwigst me and my
lord, and of his handsome offers, and his horrow at hearing of his son's
being taken; and likewise mentioned how strange it was that Miss should
only have 3 guineas, and with such a fortn: bless us, I should have thot
that she would always have carried a hundred thowsnd lb. in her pockit!

At this master only said Pshaw! But the rest of the story about his
father seemed to dixquiet him a good deal, and he made me repeat it over
agin.

He walked up and down the room agytated, and it seam'd as if a new lite
was breaking in upon him.

"Chawls," says he, "did you observe--did Miss--did my father seem
PARTICULARLY INTIMATE with Miss Griffin?"

"How do you mean, sir?" says I.

"Did Lord Crabs appear very fond of Miss Griffin?"

"He was suttnly very kind to her."

"Come, sir, speak at once: did Miss Griffin seem very fond of his
lordship?"

"Why, to tell the truth, sir, I must say she seemed VERY fond of him."

"What did he call her?"

"He called her his dearest gal."

"Did he take her hand?"

"Yes, and he--"

"And he what?"

"He kist her, and told her not to be so wery down-hearted about the
misfortn which had hapnd to you."

"I have it now!" says he, clinching his fist, and growing gashly
pail--"I have it now--the infernal old hoary scoundrel! the wicked,
unnatural wretch! He would take her from me!" And he poured out a volley
of oaves which are impossbill to be repeatid here.

I thot as much long ago: and when my lord kem with his vizits so
pretious affeckshnt at my Lady Griffinses, I expected some such game
was in the wind. Indeed, I'd heard a somethink of it from the Griffinses
servnts, that my lord was mighty tender with the ladies.

One thing, however, was evident to a man of his intleckshal capassaties;
he must either marry the gal at onst, or he stood very small chance
of having her. He must get out of limbo immediantly, or his respectid
father might be stepping into his vaykint shoes. Oh! he saw it all
now--the fust attempt at arest, the marridge fixt at 12 o'clock, and
the bayliffs fixt to come and intarup the marridge!--the jewel, praps,
betwigst him and De l'Orge: but no, it was the WOMAN who did that--a
MAN don't deal such fowl blows, igspecially a father to his son: a woman
may, poar thing!--she's no other means of reventch, and is used to fight
with underhand wepns all her life through.

Well, whatever the pint might be, this Deuceace saw pretty clear that
he'd been beat by his father at his own game--a trapp set for him
onst, which had been defitted by my presnts of mind--another trap set
afterwids, in which my lord had been suxesfle. Now, my lord, roag as he
was, was much too good-natured to do an unkind ackshn, mearly for
the sake of doing it. He'd got to that pich that he didn't mind
injaries--they were all fair play to him--he gave 'em, and reseav'd
them, without a thought of mallis. If he wanted to injer his son, it was
to benefick himself. And how was this to be done? By getting the hairiss
to himself, to be sure. The Honrabble Mr. D. didn't say so; but I knew
his feelinx well enough--he regretted that he had not given the old
genlmn the money he askt for.

Poar fello! he thought he had hit it; but he was wide of the mark after
all.

Well, but what was to be done? It was clear that he must marry the gal
at any rate--cootky coot, as the French say: that is, marry her, and
hang the igspence.

To do so he must first git out of prisn--to get out of prisn he must
pay his debts--and to pay his debts, he must give every shilling he
was worth. Never mind: four thousand pound is a small stake to a reglar
gambler, igspecially when he must play it, or rot for life in prisn; and
when, if he plays it well, it will give him ten thousand a year.

So, seeing there was no help for it, he maid up his mind, and
accordingly wrote the follying letter to Miss Griffin:--


"MY ADORED MATILDA,--Your letter has indeed been a comfort to a poor
fellow, who had hoped that this night would have been the most blessed
in his life, and now finds himself condemned to spend it within a
prison wall! You know the accursed conspiracy which has brought these
liabilities upon me, and the foolish friendship which has cost me so
much. But what matters! We have, as you say, enough, even though I
must pay this shameful demand upon me; and five thousand pounds are as
nothing, compared to the happiness which I lose in being separated a
night from thee! Courage, however! If I make a sacrifice it is for you;
and I were heartless indeed if I allowed my own losses to balance for a
moment against your happiness.

"Is it not so, beloved one? IS not your happiness bound up with mine,
in a union with me? I am proud to think so--proud, too, to offer such a
humble proof as this of the depth and purity of my affection.

"Tell me that you will still be mine; tell me that you will be mine
tomorrow; and to-morrow these vile chains shall be removed, and I will
be free once more--or if bound, only bound to you! My adorable Matilda!
my betrothed bride! Write to me ere the evening closes, for I shall
never be able to shut my eyes in slumber upon my prison couch, until
they have been first blessed by the sight of a few words from thee!
Write to me, love! write to me! I languish for the reply which is to
make or mar me for ever. Your affectionate

"A. P. D."


Having polisht off this epistol, master intrustid it to me to carry,
and bade me at the same time to try and give it into Miss Griffin's hand
alone. I ran with it to Lady Griffinses. I found Miss, as I desired, in
a sollatary condition; and I presented her with master's pafewmed Billy.

She read it, and the number of size to which she gave vint, and the
tears which she shed, beggar digscription. She wep and sighed until I
thought she would bust. She even claspt my hand in her's, and said, "O
Charles! is he very, very miserable?"

"He is, ma'am," says I; "very miserable indeed--nobody, upon my honor,
could be miserablerer."

On hearing this pethetic remark, her mind was made up at onst: and
sitting down to her eskrewtaw, she immediantly ableaged master with an
answer. Here it is in black and white:


"My prisoned bird shall pine no more, but fly home to its nest in these
arms! Adored Algernon, I will meet thee to-morrow, at the same place, at
the same hour. Then, then, it will be impossible for aught but death to
divide us.

"M. G."


This kind of flumry style comes, you see, of reading novvles, and
cultivating littery purshuits in a small way. How much better is it
to be puffickly ignorant of the hart of writing, and to trust to the
writing of the heart. This is MY style: artyfiz I despise, and trust
compleatly to natur: but revnong a no mootong, as our continential
friends remark: to that nice white sheep, Algernon Percy Deuceace,
Exquire; that wenrabble old ram, my Lord Crabs his father; and that
tender and dellygit young lamb, Miss Matilda Griffin.

She had just foalded up into its proper triangular shape the noat
transcribed abuff, and I was just on the point of saying, according to
my master's orders, "Miss, if you please, the Honrabble Mr. Deuceace
would be very much ableaged to you to keep the seminary which is to take
place to-morrow a profound se--," when my master's father entered, and I
fell back to the door. Miss, without a word, rusht into his arms, burst
into teers agin, as was her reglar way (it must be confest she was of
a very mist constitution), and showing to him his son's note, cried,
"Look, my dear lord, how nobly your Algernon, OUR Algernon, writes
to me. Who can doubt, after this, of the purity of his matchless
affection?"

My lord took the letter, read it, seamed a good deal amyoused, and
returning it to its owner, said, very much to my surprise, "My dear Miss
Griffin, he certainly does seem in earnest; and if you choose to make
this match without the consent of your mother-in-law, you know the
consequence, and are of course your own mistress."

"Consequences!--for shame, my lord! A little money, more or less, what
matters it to two hearts like ours?"

"Hearts are very pretty things, my sweet young lady, but Three-per-Cents
are better."

"Nay, have we not an ample income of our own, without the aid of Lady
Griffin?"

My lord shrugged his shoulders. "Be it so, my love," says he. "I'm sure
I can have no other reason to prevent a union which is founded upon such
disinterested affection."

And here the conversation dropt. Miss retired, clasping her hands, and
making play with the whites of her i's. My lord began trotting up and
down the room, with his fat hands stuck in his britchis pockits, his
countnince lighted up with igstream joy, and singing, to my inordnit
igstonishment:


     "See the conquering hero comes!
      Tiddy diddy doll--tiddy doll, doll, doll."


He began singing this song, and tearing up and down the room like mad.
I stood amazd--a new light broke in upon me. He wasn't going, then, to
make love to Miss Griffin! Master might marry her! Had she not got the
for--?

I say, I was just standing stock still, my eyes fixt, my hands
puppindicklar, my mouf wide open and these igstrordinary thoughts
passing in my mind, when my lord having got to the last "doll" of his
song, just as I came to the sillible "for" of my ventriloquism, or
inward speech--we had eatch jest reached the pint digscribed, when the
meditations of both were sudnly stopt, by my lord, in the midst of his
singin and trottin match, coming bolt up aginst poar me, sending me up
aginst one end of the room, himself flying back to the other: and it
was only after considrabble agitation that we were at length restored to
anything like a liquilibrium.

"What, YOU here, you infernal rascal?" says my lord.

"Your lordship's very kind to notus me," says I; "I am here." And I gave
him a look.

He saw I knew the whole game.

And after whisling a bit, as was his habit when puzzled (I bleave
he'd have only whisled if he had been told he was to be hanged in five
minits), after whisling a bit, he stops sudnly, and coming up to me,
says:

"Hearkye, Charles, this marriage must take place to-morrow."

"Must it, sir?" says I; "now, for my part, I don't think--"

"Stop, my good fellow; if it does not take place, what do you gain?"

This stagger'd me. If it didn't take place, I only lost a situation, for
master had but just enough money to pay his detts; and it wooden soot my
book to serve him in prisn or starving.

"Well," says my lord, "you see the force of my argument. Now, look
here!" and he lugs out a crisp, fluttering, snowy HUNDRED-PUN NOTE! "If
my son and Miss Griffin are married to-morrow, you shall have this; and
I will, moreover, take you into my service, and give you double your
present wages."

Flesh and blood cooden bear it. "My lord," says I, laying my hand upon
my busm, "only give me security, and I'm yours for ever."

The old noblemin grin'd, and pattid me on the shoulder. "Right, my
lad," says he, "right--you're a nice promising youth. Here is the best
security." And he pulls out his pockit-book, returns the hundred-pun
bill, and takes out one for fifty. "Here is half to-day; to-morrow you
shall have the remainder."

My fingers trembled a little as I took the pretty fluttering bit of
paper, about five times as big as any sum of money I had ever had in my
life. I cast my i upon the amount: it was a fifty sure enough--a bank
poss-bill, made payable to Leonora Emilia Griffin, and indorsed by her.
The cat was out of the bag. Now, gentle reader, I spose you begin to see
the game.

"Recollect, from this day you are in my service."

"My lord, you overpoar me with your faviors."

"Go to the devil, sir," says he: "do your duty, and hold your tongue."

And thus I went from the service of the Honorabble Algernon Deuceace to
that of his exlnsy the Right Honorabble Earl of Crabs.

     .     .     .     .     .     .

On going back to prisn, I found Deuceace locked up in that oajus place
to which his igstravygansies had deservedly led him; and felt for him, I
must say, a great deal of contemp. A raskle such as he--a swindler, who
had robbed poar Dawkins of the means of igsistance; who had cheated his
fellow-roag, Mr. Richard Blewitt, and who was making a musnary marridge
with a disgusting creacher like Miss Griffin, didn merit any compashn on
my purt; and I determined quite to keep secret the suckmstansies of my
privit intervew with his exlnsy my presnt master.

I gev him Miss Griffinses trianglar, which he read with a satasfied air.
Then, turning to me, says he: "You gave this to Miss Griffin alone?"

"Yes, sir."

"You gave her my message?"

"Yes, sir."

"And you are quite sure Lord Crabs was not there when you gave either
the message or the note?"

"Not there upon my honor," says I.

"Hang your honor, sir! Brush my hat and coat, and go CALL A COACH--do
you hear?"

     .     .     .     .     .     .

I did as I was ordered; and on coming back found master in what's
called, I think, the greffe of the prisn. The officer in waiting had
out a great register, and was talking to master in the French tongue, in
coarse; a number of poar prisners were looking eagerly on.

"Let us see, my lor," says he; "the debt is 98,700 francs; there are
capture expenses, interest so much; and the whole sum amounts to a
hundred thousand francs, moins 13."

Deuceace, in a very myjestic way, takes out of his pocketbook four
thowsnd pun notes. "This is not French money, but I presume that you
know it, M. Greffier," says he.

The greffier turned round to old Solomon, a money-changer, who had one
or two clients in the prisn, and hapnd luckily to be there. "Les billets
sont bons," says he. "Je les prendrai pour cent mille douze cent francs,
et j'espere, my lor, de vous revoir."

"Good," says the greffier; "I know them to be good, and I will give my
lor the difference, and make out his release."

Which was done. The poar debtors gave a feeble cheer, as the great
dubble iron gates swung open and clang to again, and Deuceace stept out
and me after him, to breathe the fresh hair.

He had been in the place but six hours, and was now free again--free,
and to be married to ten thousand a year nex day. But, for all that, he
lookt very faint and pale. He HAD put down his great stake; and when he
came out of Sainte Pelagie, he had but fifty pounds left in the world!

Never mind--when onst the money's down, make your mind easy; and so
Deuceace did. He drove back to the Hotel Mirabew, where he ordered
apartmince infinately more splendid than befor; and I pretty soon told
Toinette, and the rest of the suvvants, how nobly he behayved, and how
he valyoud four thousnd pound no more than ditch water. And such was the
consquincies of my praises, and the poplarity I got for us boath, that
the delighted landlady immediantly charged him dubble what she would
have done, if it hadn been for my stoaries.

He ordered splendid apartmince, then, for the nex week; a
carridge-and-four for Fontainebleau to-morrow at 12 precisely; and
having settled all these things, went quietly to the "Roshy de Cancale,"
where he dined: as well he might, for it was now eight o'clock. I
didn't spare the shompang neither that night, I can tell you; for when
I carried the note he gave me for Miss Griffin in the evening, informing
her of his freedom, that young lady remarked my hagitated manner of
walking and speaking, and said, "Honest Charles! he is flusht with the
events of the day. Here, Charles, is a napoleon; take it and drink to
your mistress."

I pockitid it; but, I must say, I didn't like the money--it went against
my stomick to take it.


CHAPTER IX.

THE MARRIAGE.


Well, the nex day came: at 12 the carridge-and-four was waiting at the
ambasdor's doar; and Miss Griffin and the faithfle Kicksey were punctial
to the apintment.

I don't wish to digscribe the marridge seminary--how the embasy chapling
jined the hands of this loving young couple--how one of the embasy
footmin was called in to witness the marridge--how Miss wep and fainted
as usial--and how Deuceace carried her, fainting, to the brisky, and
drove off to Fontingblo, where they were to pass the fust weak of the
honey-moon. They took no servnts, because they wisht, they said, to
be privit. And so, when I had shut up the steps, and bid the postilion
drive on, I bid ajew to the Honrabble Algernon, and went off strait to
his exlent father.

"Is it all over, Chawls?" said he.

"I saw them turned off at igsactly a quarter past 12, my lord," says I.

"Did you give Miss Griffin the paper, as I told you, before her
marriage?"

"I did, my lord, in the presents of Mr. Brown, Lord Bobtail's man; who
can swear to her having had it."

I must tell you that my lord had made me read a paper which Lady Griffin
had written, and which I was comishnd to give in the manner menshnd
abuff. It ran to this effect:--


"According to the authority given me by the will of my late dear
husband, I forbid the marriage of Miss Griffin with the Honorable
Algernon Percy Deuceace. If Miss Griffin persists in the union, I warn
her that she must abide by the consequences of her act.

"LEONORA EMILIA GRIFFIN."

"RUE DE RIVOLI, May 8, 1818."


When I gave this to Miss as she entered the cortyard, a minnit before my
master's arrivle, she only read it contemptiously, and said, "I laugh at
the threats of Lady Griffin;" and she toar the paper in two, and walked
on, leaning on the arm of the faithful and obleaging Miss Kicksey.

I picked up the paper for fear of axdents, and brot it to my lord.
Not that there was any necessaty; for he'd kep a copy, and made me and
another witniss (my Lady Griffin's solissator) read them both, before he
sent either away.

"Good!" says he; and he projuiced from his potfolio the fello of that
bewchus fifty-pun note, which he'd given me yesterday. "I keep my
promise, you see, Charles," says he. "You are now in Lady Griffin's
service, in the place of Mr. Fitzclarence, who retires. Go to Froje's,
and get a livery."

"But, my lord," says I, "I was not to go into Lady Griffnses service,
according to the bargain, but into--"

"It's all the same thing," says he; and he walked off. I went to Mr.
Froje's, and ordered a new livry; and found, likwise, that our coachmin
and Munseer Mortimer had been there too. My lady's livery was changed,
and was now of the same color as my old coat at Mr. Deuceace's; and I'm
blest if there wasn't a tremenjious great earl's corronit on the butins,
instid of the Griffin rampint, which was worn befoar.

I asked no questions, however, but had myself measured; and slep that
night at the Plas Vandome. I didn't go out with the carridge for a day
or two, though; my lady only taking one footmin, she said, until HER NEW
CARRIDGE was turned out.

I think you can guess what's in the wind NOW!

I bot myself a dressing-case, a box of Ody colong, a few duzen lawn
sherts and neckcloths, and other things which were necessary for a
genlmn in my rank. Silk stockings was provided by the rules of the
house. And I completed the bisniss by writing the follying ginteel
letter to my late master:--


"CHARLES YELLOWPLUSH, ESQUIRE, TO THE HONORABLE A. P. DEUCEACE.

"SUR,--Suckmstansies have acurd sins I last had the honner of wating on
you, which render it impossbil that I should remane any longer in your
suvvice. I'll thank you to leave out my thinx, when they come home on
Sattady from the wash.

"Your obeajnt servnt,

"CHARLES YELLOWPLUSH."

"PLAS VENDOME."


The athography of the abuv noat, I confess, is atrocious; but ke
voolyvoo? I was only eighteen, and hadn then the expearance in writing
which I've enjide sins.

Having thus done my jewty in evry way, I shall prosead, in the nex
chapter, to say what hapnd in my new place.


CHAPTER X.

THE HONEY-MOON.


The weak at Fontingblow past quickly away; and at the end of it, our son
and daughter-in-law--a pare of nice young tuttle-duvs--returned to their
nest, at the Hotel Mirabew. I suspeck that the COCK turtle-dove was
preshos sick of his barging.

When they arriv'd, the fust thing they found on their table was a large
parsle wrapt up in silver paper, and a newspaper, and a couple of cards,
tied up with a peace of white ribbing. In the parsle was a hansume piece
of plum-cake, with a deal of sugar. On the cards was wrote, in Goffick
characters,


     Earl of Crabs.


And, in very small Italian,


     Countess of Crabs.


And in the paper was the following parrowgraff:--


"MARRIAGE IN HIGH LIFE.--Yesterday, at the British embassy, the Right
Honorable John Augustus Altamont Plantagenet, Earl of Crabs, to Leonora
Emilia, widow of the late Lieutenant-General Sir George Griffin, K. C.
B. An elegant dejeune was given to the happy couple by his Excellency
Lord Bobtail, who gave away the bride. The elite of the foreign
diplomacy, the Prince Talleyrand and Marshal the Duke of Dalmatia on
behalf of H. M. the King of France, honored the banquet and the marriage
ceremony. Lord and Lady Crabs intend passing a few weeks at Saint
Cloud."


The above dockyments, along with my own triffling billy, of which I have
also givn a copy, greated Mr. and Mrs. Deuceace on their arrivle from
Fontingblo. Not being present, I can't say what Deuceace said; but I can
fancy how he LOOKT, and how poor Mrs. Deuceace lookt. They weren't much
inclined to rest after the fiteeg of the junny; for, in 1/2 an hour
after their arrival at Paris, the hosses were put to the carridge
agen, and down they came thundering to our country-house at St. Cloud
(pronounst by those absud Frenchmin Sing Kloo), to interrup our chaste
loves and delishs marridge injyments.

My lord was sittn in a crimson satan dressing-gown, lolling on a sofa at
an open windy, smoaking seagars, as ushle; her ladyship, who, to du her
justice, didn mind the smell, occupied another end of the room, and
was working, in wusted, a pare of slippers, or an umbrellore case, or a
coal-skittle, or some such nonsints. You would have thought to have sean
'em that they had been married a sentry, at least. Well, I bust in upon
this conjugal tator-tator, and said, very much alarmed, "My lord, here's
your son and daughter-in-law."

"Well," says my lord, quite calm, "and what then?"

"Mr. Deuceace!" says my lady, starting up, and looking fritened.

"Yes, my love, my son; but you need not be alarmed. Pray, Charles, say
that Lady Crabs and I will be very happy to see Mr. and Mrs. Deuceace;
and that they must excuse us receiving them en famille. Sit still, my
blessing--take things coolly. Have you got the box with the papers?"

My lady pointed to a great green box--the same from which she had taken
the papers, when Deuceace fust saw them,--and handed over to my lord a
fine gold key. I went out, met Deuceace and his wife on the stepps, gave
my messinge, and bowed them palitely in.

My lord didn't rise, but smoaked away as usual (praps a little quicker,
but I can't say); my lady sat upright, looking handsum and strong.
Deuceace walked in, his left arm tied to his breast, his wife and hat on
the other. He looked very pale and frightened; his wife, poar thing! had
her head berried in her handkerchief, and sobd fit to break her heart.

Miss Kicksey, who was in the room (but I didn't mention her, she was
less than nothink in our house), went up to Mrs. Deuceace at onst, and
held out her arms--she had a heart, that old Kicksey, and I respect her
for it. The poor hunchback flung herself into Miss's arms, with a kind
of whooping screech, and kep there for some time, sobbing in quite a
historical manner. I saw there was going to be a sean, and so, in cors,
left the door ajar.

"Welcome to Saint Cloud, Algy my boy!" says my lord, in a loud, hearty
voice. "You thought you would give us the slip, eh, you rogue? But
we knew it, my dear fellow: we knew the whole affair--did we not, my
soul?--and you see, kept our secret better than you did yours."

"I must confess, sir," says Deuceace, bowing, "that I had no idea of the
happiness which awaited me in the shape of a mother-in-law."

"No, you dog; no, no," says my lord, giggling: "old birds, you know, not
to be caught with chaff, like young ones. But here we are, all spliced
and happy, at last. Sit down, Algernon; let us smoke a segar, and talk
over the perils and adventures of the last month. My love," says my
lord, turning to his lady, "you have no malice against poor Algernon, I
trust? Pray shake HIS HAND." (A grin.)

But my lady rose and said, "I have told Mr. Deuceace, that I never
wished to see him, or speak to him, more. I see no reason, now, to
change my opinion." And herewith she sailed out of the room, by the door
through which Kicksey had carried poor Mrs. Deuceace.

"Well, well," says my lord, as Lady Crabs swept by, "I was in hopes she
had forgiven you; but I know the whole story, and I must confess you
used her cruelly ill. Two strings to your bow!--that was your game, was
it, you rogue?"

"Do you mean, my lord, that you know all that past between me and Lady
Grif--Lady Crabs, before our quarrel?"

"Perfectly--you made love to her, and she was almost in love with
you; you jilted her for money, she got a man to shoot your hand off in
revenge: no more dice-boxes, now, Deuceace; no more sauter la coupe. I
can't think how the deuce you will manage to live without them."

"Your lordship is very kind; but I have given up play altogether," says
Deuceace, looking mighty black and uneasy.

"Oh, indeed! Benedick has turned a moral man, has he? This is better and
better. Are you thinking of going into the church, Deuceace?"

"My lord, may I ask you to be a little more serious?"

"Serious! a quoi bon? I am serious--serious in my surprise that, when
you might have had either of these women, you should have preferred that
hideous wife of yours."

"May I ask you, in turn, how you came to be so little squeamish about
a wife, as to choose a woman who had just been making love to your own
son?" says Deuceace, growing fierce.

"How can you ask such a question? I owe forty thousand pounds--there
is an execution at Sizes Hall--every acre I have is in the hands of
my creditors; and that's why I married her. Do you think there was any
love? Lady Crabs is a dev'lish fine woman, but she's not a fool--she
married me for my coronet, and I married her for her money."

"Well, my lord, you need not ask me, I think, why I married the
daughter-in-law."

"Yes, but I DO, my dear boy. How the deuce are you to live? Dawkins's
five thousand pounds won't last forever; and afterwards?"

"You don't mean, my lord--you don't--I mean, you can't-- D---!" says he,
starting up, and losing all patience, "you don't dare to say that Miss
Griffin had not a fortune of ten thousand a year?"

My lord was rolling up, and wetting betwigst his lips, another segar; he
lookt up, after he had lighted it, and said quietly--

"Certainly, Miss Griffin had a fortune of ten thousand a year."

"Well, sir, and has she not got it now? Has she spent it in a week?"

"SHE HAS NOT GOT A SIX-PENCE NOW: SHE MARRIED WITHOUT HER MOTHER'S
CONSENT!"

Deuceace sunk down in a chair; and I never see such a dreadful picture
of despair as there was in the face of that retchid man!--he writhed,
and nasht his teeth, he tore open his coat, and wriggled madly the stump
of his left hand, until, fairly beat, he threw it over his livid pale
face, and sinking backwards, fairly wept alowd.

Bah! it's a dreddfle thing to hear a man crying! his pashn torn up from
the very roots of his heart, as it must be before it can git such a
vent. My lord, meanwhile, rolled his segar, lighted it, and went on.

"My dear boy, the girl has not a shilling. I wished to have left you
alone in peace, with your four thousand pounds: you might have lived
decently upon it in Germany, where money is at 5 per cent, where your
duns would not find you, and a couple of hundred a year would have kept
you and your wife in comfort. But, you see, Lady Crabs would not listen
to it. You had injured her; and, after she had tried to kill you and
failed, she determined to ruin you, and succeeded. I must own to you
that I directed the arresting business, and put her up to buying your
protested bills: she got them for a trifle, and as you have paid them,
has made a good two thousand pounds by her bargain. It was a painful
thing to be sure, for a father to get his son arrested; but que
voulez-vous! I did not appear in the transaction: she would have you
ruined; and it was absolutely necessary that YOU should marry before I
could, so I pleaded your cause with Miss Griffin, and made you the happy
man you are. You rogue, you rogue! you thought to match your old father,
did you? But, never mind; lunch will be ready soon. In the meantime,
have a segar, and drink a glass of Sauterne."

Deuceace, who had been listening to this speech, sprung up wildly.

"I'll not believe it," he said: "it's a lie, an infernal lie! forged
by you, you hoary villain, and by the murderess and strumpet you have
married. I'll not believe it; show me the will. Matilda! Matilda!"
shouted he, screaming hoarsely, and flinging open the door by which she
had gone out.

"Keep your temper, my boy. You ARE vexed, and I feel for you: but don't
use such bad language: it is quite needless, believe me."

"Matilda!" shouted out Deuceace again; and the poor crooked thing came
trembling in, followed by Miss Kicksey.

"Is this true, woman?" says he, clutching hold of her hand.

"What, dear Algernon?" says she.

"What?" screams out Deuceace,--"what? Why that you are a beggar, for
marrying without your mother's consent--that you basely lied to me, in
order to bring about this match--that you are a swindler, in conspiracy
with that old fiend yonder and the she-devil his wife?"

"It is true," sobbed the poor woman, "that I have nothing; but--"

"Nothing but what? Why don't you speak, you drivelling fool?"

"I have nothing!--but you, dearest, have two thousand a year. Is that
not enough for us? You love me for myself, don't you, Algernon? You have
told me so a thousand times--say so again, dear husband; and do not, do
not be so unkind." And here she sank on her knees, and clung to him, and
tried to catch his hand, and kiss it.

"How much did you say?" says my lord.

"Two thousand a year, sir; he has told us so a thousand times."

"TWO THOUSAND! Two thou--ho, ho, ho!--haw! haw! haw!" roars my lord.
"That is, I vow, the best thing I ever heard in my life. My dear
creature, he has not a shilling--not a single maravedi, by all the gods
and goddesses." And this exlnt noblemin began laffin louder than ever: a
very kind and feeling genlmn he was, as all must confess.

There was a paws: and Mrs. Deuceace didn begin cussing and swearing at
her husband as he had done at her: she only said, "O Algernon! is this
true?" and got up, and went to a chair and wep in quiet.

My lord opened the great box. "If you or your lawyers would like to
examine Sir George's will, it is quite at your service; you will see
here the proviso which I mentioned, that gives the entire fortune to
Lady Griffin--Lady Crabs that is: and here, my dear boy, you see the
danger of hasty conclusions. Her ladyship only showed you the FIRST PAGE
OF THE WILL, of course; she wanted to try you. You thought you made a
great stroke in at once proposing to Miss Griffin--do not mind it, my
love, he really loves you now very sincerely!--when, in fact, you
would have done much better to have read the rest of the will. You were
completely bitten, my boy--humbugged, bamboozled--ay, and by your old
father, you dog. I told you I would, you know, when you refused to lend
me a portion of your Dawkins money. I told you I would; and I DID. I had
you the very next day. Let this be a lesson to you, Percy my boy; don't
try your luck again against such old hands: look deuced well before you
leap: audi alteram partem, my lad, which means, read both sides of the
will. I think lunch is ready; but I see you don't smoke. Shall we go
in?"

"Stop, my lord," says Mr. Deuceace, very humble: "I shall not share your
hospitality--but--but you know my condition; I am penniless--you know
the manner in which my wife has been brought up--"

"The Honorable Mrs. Deuceace, sir, shall always find a home here, as if
nothing had occurred to interrupt the friendship between her dear mother
and herself."

"And for me, sir," says Deuceace, speaking faint, and very slow; "I
hope--I trust--I think, my lord, you will not forget me?"

"Forget you, sir; certainly not."

"And that you will make some provision--?"

"Algernon Deuceace," says my lord, getting up from the sophy, and
looking at him with sich a jolly malignity, as I never see, "I declare,
before heaven, that I will not give you a penny!"

Hereupon my lord held out his hand to Mrs. Deuceace, and said, "My dear,
will you join your mother and me? We shall always, as I said, have a
home for you."

"My lord," said the poar thing, dropping a curtsy, "my home is with
HIM!"

     .     .     .     .     .     .

About three months after, when the season was beginning at Paris, and
the autumn leafs was on the ground, my lord, my lady, me and Mortimer,
were taking a stroal in the Boddy Balong, the carridge driving on slowly
ahead, and us as happy as possbill, admiring the pleasant woods and the
goldn sunset.

My lord was expayshating to my lady upon the exquizit beauty of the
sean, and pouring forth a host of butifle and virtuous sentaments
sootable to the hour. It was dalitefle to hear him. "Ah!" said he,
"black must be the heart, my love, which does not feel the influence
of a scene like this; gathering as it were, from those sunlit skies,
a portion of their celestial gold, and gaining somewhat of heaven with
each pure draught of this delicious air!"

Lady Crabs did not speak, but prest his arm and looked upwards. Mortimer
and I, too, felt some of the infliwents of the sean, and lent on our
goold sticks in silence. The carriage drew up close to us, and my lord
and my lady sauntered slowly tords it.

Jest at the place was a bench, and on the bench sate a poorly drest
woman, and by her, leaning against a tree, was a man whom I thought I'd
sean befor. He was drest in a shabby blew coat, with white seems and
copper buttons; a torn hat was on his head, and great quantaties of
matted hair and whiskers disfiggared his countnints. He was not shaved,
and as pale as stone.

My lord and lady didn tak the slightest notice of him, but past on to
the carridge. Me and Mortimer lickwise took OUR places. As we past, the
man had got a grip of the woman's shoulder, who was holding down her
head sobbing bitterly.

No sooner were my lord and lady seated, than they both, with igstream
dellixy and good natur, burst into a ror of lafter, peal upon peal,
whooping and screaching enough to frighten the evening silents.

DEUCEACE turned round. I see his face now--the face of a devvle of hell!
Fust, he lookt towards the carridge, and pinted to it with his maimed
arm; then he raised the other, AND STRUCK THE WOMAN BY HIS SIDE. She
fell, screaming.

Poor thing! Poor thing!


MR. YELLOWPLUSH'S AJEW.


The end of Mr. Deuceace's history is going to be the end of my
corrispondince. I wish the public was as sory to part with me as I am
with the public; becaws I fansy reely that we've become frends, and feal
for my part a becoming greaf at saying ajew.

It's imposbill for me to continyow, however, a-writin, as I have
done--violetting the rules of authography, and trampling upon the fust
princepills of English grammar. When I began, I knew no better: when I'd
carrid on these papers a little further, and grew accustmd to writin, I
began to smel out somethink quear in my style. Within the last sex weaks
I have been learning to spell: and when all the world was rejoicing at
the festivvaties of our youthful Quean--*when all i's were fixed upon
her long sweet of ambasdors and princes, following the splendid carridge
of Marshle the Duke of Damlatiar, and blinking at the pearls and dimince
of Prince Oystereasy--Yellowplush was in his loanly pantry--HIS eyes
were fixt upon the spelling-book--his heart was bent upon mastring the
diffickleties of the littery professhn. I have been, in fact, CONVERTID.


* This was written in 1838.


You shall here how. Ours, you know, is a Wig house; and ever sins his
third son has got a place in the Treasury, his secknd a captingsy in the
Guards, his fust, the secretary of embasy at Pekin, with a prospick
of being appinted ambasdor at Loo Choo--ever sins master's sons have
reseaved these attentions, and master himself has had the promis of a
pearitch, he has been the most reglar, consistnt, honrabble Libbaral, in
or out of the House of Commins.

Well, being a Whig, it's the fashn, as you know, to reseave littery
pipple; and accordingly, at dinner, tother day, whose name do you think
I had to hollar out on the fust landing-place about a wick ago? After
several dukes and markises had been enounced, a very gentell fly drives
up to our doar, and out steps two gentlemen. One was pail, and wor
spektickles, a wig, and a white neckcloth. The other was slim with a
hook nose, a pail fase, a small waist, a pare of falling shoulders, a
tight coat, and a catarack of black satting tumbling out of his busm,
and falling into a gilt velvet weskit. The little genlmn settled his
wigg, and pulled out his ribbins; the younger one fluffed the dust of
his shoes, looked at his whiskers in a little pockit-glas, settled his
crevatt; and they both mounted upstairs.

"What name, sir?" says I, to the old genlmn.

"Name!--a! now, you thief o' the wurrld," says he, "do you pretind
nat to know ME? Say it's the Cabinet Cyclopa--no, I mane the Litherary
Chran--psha!--bluthanowns!--say it's DOCTHOR DIOCLESIAN LARNER--I think
he'll know me now--ay, Nid?" But the genlmn called Nid was at the botm
of the stare, and pretended to be very busy with his shoo-string. So the
little genlmn went upstares alone.

"DOCTOR DIOLESIUS LARNER!" says I.

"DOCTOR ATHANASIUS LARDNER!" says Greville Fitz-Roy, our secknd footman,
on the fust landing-place.

"DOCTOR IGNATIUS LOYOLA!" says the groom of the chambers, who pretends
to be a scholar; and in the little genlmn went. When safely housed,
the other chap came; and when I asked him his name, said, in a thick,
gobbling kind of voice:

"Sawedwadgeorgeearllittnbulwig."

"Sir what?" says I, quite agast at the name.

"Sawedwad--no, I mean MISTAWedwad Lyttn Bulwig."

My neas trembled under me, my i's fild with tiers, my voice shook, as
I past up the venrabble name to the other footman, and saw this fust of
English writers go up to the drawing-room!

It's needless to mention the names of the rest of the compny, or to
dixcribe the suckmstansies of the dinner. Suffiz to say that the two
littery genlmn behaved very well, and seamed to have good appytights;
igspecially the little Irishman in the whig, who et, drunk, and talked
as much as a duzn. He told how he'd been presented at cort by his
friend, Mr. Bulwig, and how the Quean had received 'em both, with a
dignity undigscribable; and how her blessid Majisty asked what was the
bony fidy sale of the Cabinit Cyclopaedy, and how be (Doctor Larner)
told her that, on his honner, it was under ten thowsnd.

You may guess that the Doctor, when he made this speach, was pretty far
gone. The fact is, that whether it was the coronation, or the goodness
of the wine (cappitle it is in our house, I can tell you), or the natral
propensaties of the gests assembled, which made them so igspecially
jolly, I don't know; but they had kep up the meating pretty late, and
our poar butler was quite tired with the perpechual baskits of clarrit
which he'd been called upon to bring up. So that about 11 o'clock, if I
were to say they were merry, I should use a mild term; if I wer to say
they were intawsicated, I should use a nigspresshn more near to the
truth, but less rispeckful in one of my situashn.

The cumpany reseaved this annountsmint with mute extonishment.

"Pray, Doctor Larnder," says a spiteful genlmn, willing to keep up the
littery conversation, "what is the Cabinet Cyclopaedia?"

"It's the littherary wontherr of the wurrld," says he; "and sure your
lordship must have seen it; the latther numbers ispicially--cheap as
durrt, bound in gleezed calico, six shillings a vollum. The illusthrious
neems of Walther Scott, Thomas Moore, Docther Southey, Sir James
Mackintosh, Docther Donovan, and meself, are to be found in the list of
conthributors. It's the Phaynix of Cyclopajies--a litherary Bacon."

"A what?" says the genlmn nex to him.

"A Bacon, shining in the darkness of our age; fild wid the pure end
lambent flame of science, burning with the gorrgeous scintillations of
divine litherature--a monumintum, in fact, are perinnius, bound in pink
calico, six shillings a vollum."

"This wigmawole," said Mr. Bulwig (who seemed rather disgusted that his
friend should take up so much of the convassation), "this wigmawole
is all vewy well; but it's cuwious that you don't wemember, in
chawactewising the litewawy mewits of the vawious magazines, cwonicles,
weviews, and encyclopaedias, the existence of a cwitical weview and
litewary chwonicle, which, though the aewa of its appeawance is
dated only at a vewy few months pwevious to the pwesent pewiod, is,
nevertheless, so wemarkable for its intwinsic mewits as to be wead, not
in the metwopolis alone, but in the countwy--not in Fwance merely,
but in the west of Euwope--whewever our pure Wenglish is spoken, it
stwetches its peaceful sceptre--pewused in Amewica, fwom New York to
Ningawa--wepwinted in Canada, from Montweal to Towonto--and, as I am
gwatified to hear fwom my fwend the governor of Cape Coast Castle,
wegularly weceived in Afwica, and twanslated into the Mandingo
language by the missionawies and the bushwangers. I need not say,
gentlemen--sir--that is, Mr. Speaker--I mean, Sir John--that I allude
to the Litewary Chwonicle, of which I have the honor to be pwincipal
contwibutor."

"Very true; my dear Mr. Bullwig," says my master: "you and I being
Whigs, must of course stand by our own friends; and I will agree,
without a moment's hesitation, that the Literary what-d'ye-call'em is
the prince of periodicals."

"The pwince of pewiodicals?" says Bullwig; "my dear Sir John, it's the
empewow of the pwess."

"Soit,--let it be the emperor of the press, as you poetically call it:
but, between ourselves, confess it,--Do not the Tory writers beat your
Whigs hollow? You talk about magazines. Look at--"

"Look at hwat?" shouts out Larder. "There's none, Sir Jan, compared to
ourrs."

"Pardon me, I think that--"

"It is 'Bentley's Mislany' you mane?" says Ignatius, as sharp as a
niddle.

"Why, no; but--"

"O thin, it's Co'burn, sure! and that divvle Thayodor--a pretty paper,
sir, but light--thrashy, milk-and-wathery--not sthrong, like the
Litherary Chran--good luck to it."

"Why, Doctor Lander, I was going to tell at once the name of the
periodical, it's FRASER'S MAGAZINE."

"FRESER!" says the Doctor. "O thunder and turf!"

"FWASER!" says Bullwig. "O--ah--hum--haw--yes--no--why,--that is
weally--no, weally, upon my weputation, I never before heard the name
of the pewiodical. By the by, Sir John, what wemarkable good clawet this
is; is it Lawose or Laff--?"

Laff, indeed! he cooden git beyond laff; and I'm blest if I could kip
it neither,--for hearing him pretend ignurnts, and being behind the
skreend, settlin somethink for the genlmn, I bust into such a raw of
laffing as never was igseeded.

"Hullo!" says Bullwig, turning red. "Have I said anything impwobable,
aw widiculous? for, weally, I never befaw wecollect to have heard in
society such a twemendous peal of cachinnation--that which the twagic
bard who fought at Mawathon has called an anewithmon gelasma."

"Why, be the holy piper," says Larder, "I think you are dthrawing a
little on your imagination. Not read Fraser! Don't believe him, my lord
duke; he reads every word of it, the rogue! The boys about that magazine
baste him as if he was a sack of oatmale. My reason for crying out, Sir
Jan, was because you mintioned Fraser at all. Bullwig has every
syllable of it be heart--from the pailitix down to the 'Yellowplush
Correspondence.'"

"Ha, ha!" says Bullwig, affecting to laff (you may be sure my ears
prickt up when I heard the name of the "Yellowplush Correspondence").
"Ha, ha! why, to tell truth, I HAVE wead the cowespondence to which you
allude: it's a gweat favowite at court. I was talking with Spwing Wice
and John Wussell about it the other day."

"Well, and what do you think of it?" says Sir John, looking mity
waggish--for he knew it was me who roat it.

"Why, weally and twuly, there's considewable cleverness about the
cweature; but it's low, disgustingly low: it violates pwabability, and
the orthogwaphy is so carefully inaccuwate, that it requires a positive
study to compwehend it."

"Yes, faith," says Larner; "the arthagraphy is detestible; it's as bad
for a man to write bad spillin as it is for 'em to speak wid a brrogue.
Iducation furst, and ganius afterwards. Your health, my lord, and good
luck to you."

"Yaw wemark," says Bullwig, "is vewy appwopwiate. You will wecollect,
Sir John, in Hewodotus (as for you, Doctor, you know more about Iwish
than about Gweek),--you will wecollect, without doubt, a stowy nawwated
by that cwedulous though fascinating chwonicler, of a certain kind of
sheep which is known only in a certain distwict of Awabia, and of which
the tail is so enormous, that it either dwaggles on the gwound, or is
bound up by the shepherds of the country into a small wheelbawwow, or
cart, which makes the chwonicler sneewingly wemark that thus 'the sheep
of Awabia have their own chawiots.' I have often thought, sir (this
clawet is weally nectaweous)--I have often, I say, thought that the
wace of man may be compawed to these Awabian sheep--genius is our tail,
education our wheelbawwow. Without art and education to pwop it, this
genius dwops on the gwound, and is polluted by the mud, or injured
by the wocks upon the way: with the wheelbawwow it is stwengthened,
incweased, and supported--a pwide to the owner, a blessing to mankind."

"A very appropriate simile," says Sir John; "and I am afraid that the
genius of our friend Yellowplush has need of some such support."

"Apropos," said Bullwig, "who IS Yellowplush? I was given to understand
that the name was only a fictitious one, and that the papers were
written by the author of the 'Diary of a Physician;' if so, the man has
wonderfully improved in style, and there is some hope of him."

"Bah!" says the Duke of Doublejowl; "everybody knows it's Barnard, the
celebrated author of 'Sam Slick.'"

"Pardon, my dear duke," says Lord Bagwig; "it's the authoress of 'High
Life,' 'Almack's,' and other fashionable novels."

"Fiddlestick's end!" says Doctor Larner; "don't be blushing and
pretinding to ask questions; don't we know you, Bullwig? It's
you yourself, you thief of the world: we smoked you from the very
beginning."

Bullwig was about indignantly to reply, when Sir John interrupted them,
and said,--"I must correct you all, gentlemen; Mr. Yellowplush is no
other than Mr. Yellowplush: he gave you, my dear Bullwig, your last
glass of champagne at dinner, and is now an inmate of my house, and an
ornament of my kitchen!"

"Gad!" says Doublejowl, "let's have him up."

"Hear, hear!" says Bagwig.

"Ah, now," says Larner, "your grace is not going to call up and talk to
a footman, sure? Is it gintale?"

"To say the least of it," says Bullwig, "the pwactice is iwwegular, and
indecowous; and I weally don't see how the interview can be in any way
pwofitable."

But the vices of the company went against the two littery men, and
everybody excep them was for having up poor me. The bell was wrung;
butler came. "Send up Charles," says master; and Charles, who was
standing behind the skreand, was persnly abliged to come in.

"Charles," says master, "I have been telling these gentlemen who is the
author of the 'Yellowplush Correspondence' in Fraser's Magazine."

"It's the best magazine in Europe," says the duke.

"And no mistake," says my lord.

"Hwhat!" says Larner; "and where's the Litherary Chran?"

I said myself nothink, but made a bough, and blusht like
pickle-cabbitch.

"Mr. Yellowplush," says his grace, "will you, in the first place, drink
a glass of wine?"

I boughed agin.

"And what wine do you prefer, sir? humble port or imperial burgundy?"

"Why, your grace," says I, "I know my place, and ain't above kitchin
wines. I will take a glass of port, and drink it to the health of this
honrabble compny."

When I'd swigged off the bumper, which his grace himself did me the
honor to pour out for me, there was a silints for a minnit; when my
master said:--

"Charles Yellowplush, I have perused your memoirs in Fraser's Magazine
with so much curiosity, and have so high an opinion of your talents as a
writer, that I really cannot keep you as a footman any longer, or allow
you to discharge duties for which you are now quite unfit. With all my
admiration for your talents, Mr. Yellowplush, I still am confident that
many of your friends in the servants'-hall will clean my boots a great
deal better than a gentleman of your genius can ever be expected to
do--it is for this purpose I employ footmen, and not that they may be
writing articles in magazines. But--you need not look so red, my good
fellow, and had better take another glass of port--I don't wish to throw
you upon the wide world without the means of a livelihood, and have made
interest for a little place which you will have under government, and
which will give you an income of eighty pounds per annum; which you can
double, I presume, by your literary labors."

"Sir," says I, clasping my hands, and busting into tears, "do not--for
heaven's sake, do not!--think of any such think, or drive me from your
suvvice, because I have been fool enough to write in magaseens. Glans
but one moment at your honor's plate--every spoon is as bright as a
mirror; condysend to igsamine your shoes--your honor may see reflected
in them the fases of every one in the company. I blacked them shoes, I
cleaned that there plate. If occasionally I've forgot the footman in
the litterary man, and committed to paper my remindicences of fashnabble
life, it was from a sincere desire to do good, and promote nollitch: and
I appeal to your honor,--I lay my hand on my busm, and in the fase of
this noble company beg you to say, When you rung your bell, who came to
you fust? When you stopt out at Brooke's till morning, who sat up for
you? When you was ill, who forgot the natral dignities of his station,
and answered the two-pair bell? Oh, sir," says I, "I know what's what;
don't send me away. I know them littery chaps, and, beleave me, I'd
rather be a footman. The work's not so hard--the pay is better: the
vittels incompyrably supearor. I have but to clean my things, and run my
errints, and you put clothes on my back, and meat in my mouth. Sir! Mr.
Bullwig! an't I right? shall I quit MY station and sink--that is to say,
rise--to YOURS?"

Bullwig was violently affected; a tear stood in his glistening i.
"Yellowplush," says he, seizing my hand, "you ARE right. Quit not your
present occupation; black boots, clean knives, wear plush, all your
life, but don't turn literary man. Look at me. I am the first novelist
in Europe. I have ranged with eagle wing over the wide regions of
literature, and perched on every eminence in its turn. I have gazed with
eagle eyes on the sun of philosophy, and fathomed the mysterious depths
of the human mind. All languages are familiar to me, all thoughts are
known to me, all men understood by me. I have gathered wisdom from
the honeyed lips of Plato, as we wandered in the gardens of
Acadames--wisdom, too, from the mouth of Job Johnson, as we smoked
our 'backy in Seven Dials. Such must be the studies, and such is the
mission, in this world, of the Poet-Philosopher. But the knowledge
is only emptiness; the initiation is but misery; the initiated, a man
shunned and bann'd by his fellows. Oh," said Bullwig, clasping his
hands, and throwing his fine i's up to the chandelier, "the curse of
Pwometheus descends upon his wace. Wath and punishment pursue them
from genewation to genewation! Wo to genius, the heaven-scaler, the
fire-stealer! Wo and thrice bitter desolation! Earth is the wock on
which Zeus, wemorseless, stwetches his withing victim--men, the vultures
that feed and fatten on him. Ai, ai! it is agony eternal--gwoaning and
solitawy despair! And you, Yellowplush, would penetwate these mystewies:
you would waise the awful veil, and stand in the twemendous Pwesence.
Beware; as you value your peace, beware! Withdwaw, wash Neophyte!
For heaven's sake--O for heaven's sake!"--here he looked round with
agony--"give me a glass of bwandy-and-water, for this clawet is beginning
to disagwee with me."

Bullwig having concluded this spitch, very much to his own
sattasfackshn, looked round to the compny for aplaws, and then swigged
off the glass of brandy-and-water, giving a sollum sigh as he took the
last gulph; and then Doctor Ignatius, who longed for a chans, and, in
order to show his independence, began flatly contradicting his friend,
addressed me, and the rest of the genlmn present, in the following
manner:--

"Hark ye," says he, "my gossoon, doan't be led asthray by the nonsinse
of that divil of a Bullwig. He's jillous of ye, my bhoy: that's the
rale, undoubted thruth; and it's only to keep you out of litherary
life that he's palavering you in this way. I'll tell you what--Plush ye
blackguard,--my honorable frind the mimber there has told me a hunder
times by the smallest computation, of his intense admiration of your
talents, and the wonderful sthir they were making in the world. He can't
bear a rival. He's mad with envy, hatred, oncharatableness. Look at
him, Plush, and look at me. My father was not a juke exactly, nor aven
a markis, and see, nevertheliss, to what a pitch I am come. I spare no
ixpinse; I'm the iditor of a cople of pariodicals; I dthrive about in me
carridge: I dine wid the lords of the land; and why--in the name of the
piper that pleed before Mosus, hwy? Because I'm a litherary man. Because
I know how to play me cards. Because I'm Docther Larner, in fact, and
mimber of every society in and out of Europe. I might have remained
all my life in Thrinity Colledge, and never made such an incom as that
offered you by Sir Jan; but I came to London--to London, my boy, and now
see! Look again at me friend Bullwig. He IS a gentleman, to be sure, and
bad luck to 'im, say I; and what has been the result of his litherary
labor? I'll tell you what; and I'll tell this gintale society, by the
shade of Saint Patrick, they're going to make him a BARINET."

"A BARNET, Doctor!" says I; "you don't mean to say they're going to make
him a barnet!"

"As sure as I've made meself a docthor," says Larner.

"What, a baronet, like Sir John?"

"The divle a bit else."

"And pray what for?"

"What faw?" says Bullwig. "Ask the histowy of litwatuwe what faw? Ask
Colburn, ask Bentley, ask Saunders and Otley, ask the gweat Bwitish
nation, what faw? The blood in my veins comes puwified thwough ten
thousand years of chivalwous ancestwy; but that is neither here
nor there: my political principles--the equal wights which I have
advocated--the gweat cause of fweedom that I have celebwated, are known
to all. But this, I confess, has nothing to do with the question. No,
the question is this--on the thwone of litewature I stand unwivalled,
pwe-eminent; and the Bwitish government, honowing genius in me,
compliments the Bwitish nation by lifting into the bosom of the
heweditawy nobility, the most gifted member of the democwacy." (The
honrabble genlm here sunk down amidst repeated cheers.)

"Sir John," says I, "and my lord duke, the words of my rivrint frend
Ignatius, and the remarks of the honrabble genlmn who has just sate
down, have made me change the detummination which I had the honor of
igspressing just now.

"I igsept the eighty pound a year; knowing that I shall ave plenty of
time for pursuing my littery career, and hoping some day to set on that
same bentch of barranites, which is deckarated by the presnts of my
honrabble friend.

"Why shooden I? It's trew I ain't done anythink as YET to deserve
such an honor; and it's very probable that I never shall. But
what then?--quaw dong, as our friends say? I'd much rayther have a
coat-of-arms than a coat of livry. I'd much rayther have my blud-red
hand spralink in the middle of a shield, than underneath a tea-tray. A
barranit I will be; and, in consiquints, must cease to be a footmin.

"As to my politticle princepills, these, I confess, ain't settled:
they are, I know, necessary; but they ain't necessary UNTIL ASKT FOR;
besides, I reglar read the Sattarist newspaper, and so ignirince on this
pint would be inigscusable.

"But if one man can git to be a doctor, and another a barranit, and
another a capting in the navy, and another a countess, and another the
wife of a governor of the Cape of Good Hope, I begin to perseave that
the littery trade ain't such a very bad un; igspecially if you're up to
snough, and know what's o'clock. I'll learn to make myself usefle, in
the fust place; then I'll larn to spell; and, I trust, by reading the
novvles of the honrabble member, and the scientafick treatiseses of the
reverend doctor, I may find the secrit of suxess, and git a litell for
my own share. I've sevral frends in the press, having paid for many of
those chaps' drink, and given them other treets; and so I think I've got
all the emilents of suxess; therefore, I am detummined, as I said, to
igsept your kind offer, and beg to withdraw the wuds which I made yous
of when I refyoused your hoxpatable offer. I must, however--"

"I wish you'd withdraw yourself," said Sir John, bursting into a most
igstrorinary rage, "and not interrupt the company with your infernal
talk! Go down, and get us coffee: and, hark ye! hold your impertinent
tongue, or I'll break every bone in your body. You shall have the place
as I said; and while you're in my service, you shall be my servant; but
you don't stay in my service after to-morrow. Go down stairs, sir; and
don't stand staring here!"

     .     .     .     .     .     .

In this abrupt way, my evening ended; it's with a melancholy regret that
I think what came of it. I don't wear plush any more. I am an altered, a
wiser, and, I trust, a better man.

I'm about a novvle (having made great progriss in spelling), in the
style of my friend Bullwig; and preparing for publigation, in the
Doctor's Cyclopedear, "The Lives of Eminent British and Foring
Wosherwomen."


SKIMMINGS FROM "THE DAIRY OF GEORGE IV."


CHARLES YELLOWPLUSH, ESQ, TO OLIVER YORKE, ESQ.*

DEAR WHY,--Takin advantage of the Crismiss holydays, Sir John and me
(who is a member of parlyment) had gone down to our place in Yorkshire
for six wicks, to shoot grows and woodcox, and enjoy old English
hospitalaty. This ugly Canady bisniss unluckaly put an end to our
sports in the country, and brot us up to Buckly Square as fast as four
posterses could gallip. When there, I found your parcel, containing the
two vollumes of a new book; which, as I have been away from the literary
world, and emplied solely in athlatic exorcises, have been laying
neglected in my pantry, among my knife-cloaths, and dekanters, and
blacking-bottles, and bed-room candles, and things.


* These Memoirs were originally published in Fraser's Magazine, and it
may be stated for the benefit of the unlearned in such matters, that
"Oliver Yorke" is the assumed name of the editor of that periodical.


This will, I'm sure, account for my delay in notussing the work. I see
sefral of the papers and magazeens have been befoarhand with me, and
have given their apinions concerning it: specially the Quotly Revew,
which has most mussilessly cut to peases the author of this Dairy of the
Times of George IV.*


* Diary illustrative of the Times of George the Fourth, interspersed
with Original Letters from the late Queen Caroline, and from various
other distinguished Persons.

         "Tot ou tard, tout se scait."--MAINTENON.

In 2 vols. London, 1838. Henry Colburn.


That it's a woman who wrote it is evydent from the style of the writing,
as well as from certain proofs in the book itself. Most suttnly a femail
wrote this Dairy; but who this Dairy-maid may be, I, in coarse, can't
conjecter: and indeed, common galliantry forbids me to ask. I can only
judge of the book itself; which, it appears to me, is clearly trenching
upon my ground and favrite subjicks, viz. fashnabble life, as igsibited
in the houses of the nobility, gentry, and rile fammly.

But I bare no mallis--infamation is infamation, and it doesn't matter
where the infamy comes from; and whether the Dairy be from that
distinguished pen to which it is ornarily attributed--whether, I say,
it comes from a lady of honor to the late quean, or a scullion to that
diffunct majisty, no matter: all we ask is nollidge; never mind how we
have it. Nollidge, as our cook says, is like trikel-possit--it's always
good, though you was to drink it out of an old shoo.

Well, then, although this Dairy is likely searusly to injur my pussonal
intrests, by fourstalling a deal of what I had to say in my private
memoars--though many, many guineas, is taken from my pockit, by
cuttin short the tail of my narratif--though much that I had to say in
souperior languidge, greased with all the ellygance of my orytory, the
benefick of my classcle reading, the chawms of my agreble wit, is thus
abruply brot befor the world by an inferior genus, neither knowing nor
writing English; yet I say, that nevertheless I must say, what I am
puffickly prepaired to say, to gainsay which no man can say a word--yet
I say, that I say I consider this publication welkom. Far from viewing
it with enfy, I greet it with applaws; because it increases that most
exlent specious of nollidge, I mean "FASHNABBLE NOLLIDGE:" compayred
to witch all other nollidge is nonsince--a bag of goold to a pare of
snuffers.

Could Lord Broom, on the Canady question, say moar? or say what he had
tu say better? We are marters, both of us, to prinsple; and every body
who knows eather knows that we would sacrafice anythink rather than
that. Fashion is the goddiss I adoar. This delightful work is an offring
on her srine; and as sich all her wushippers are bound to hail it.
Here is not a question of trumpry lords and honrabbles, generals and
barronites, but the crown itself, and the king and queen's actions;
witch may be considered as the crown jewels. Here's princes, and
grand-dukes and airsparent, and heaven knows what; all with blood-royal
in their veins, and their names mentioned in the very fust page of the
peeridge. In this book you become so intmate with the Prince of Wales,
that you may follow him, if you please, to his marridge-bed: or, if
you prefer the Princiss Charlotte, you may have with her an hour's
tator-tator.*