Produced by David Widger


THE INSIDE OF THE CUP

By Winston Churchill


Volume 4.

XIII.   WINTERBOURNE
XIV.   A SATURDAY AFTERNOON
XV.    THE CRUCIBLE
XVI.   AMID THE ENCIRCLING GLOOM


CHAPTER XIII

WINTERBOURNE


I

Hodder fell asleep from sheer exhaustion, awaking during the night at
occasional intervals to recall chimerical dreams in which the events of
the day before were reflected, but caricatured and distorted. Alison
Parr was talking to the woman in the flat, and both were changed, and yet
he identified both: and on another occasion he saw a familiar figure
surrounded by romping, ragged children--a figure which turned out to be
Eldon Parr's!

Finally he was aroused by what seemed a summons from the unknown--the
prolonged morning whistle of the shoe factory. For a while he lay as one
benumbed, and the gradual realization that ensued might be likened to the
straining of stiffened wounds. Little by little he reconstructed, until
the process became unbearable, and then rose from his bed with one object
in mind,--to go to Horace Bentley. At first--he seized upon the excuse
that Mr. Bentley would wish to hear the verdict of Dr. Jarvis, but
immediately abandoned it as dishonest, acknowledging the true reason,
that in all the--world the presence of this one man alone might assuage
in some degree the terror in his soul. For the first time in his life,
since childhood, he knew a sense of utter dependence upon another human
being. He felt no shame, would make no explanation for his early visit.

Let no one, from the above comprehensive list of studies, form the
idea, that the outward incarnation of the German intellect, in speech
or deed, corresponds to its inner worth and solidity. The name _Dryasdust_
must cling to many a learned professor more firmly than to the most
chronological of the old historians. Germany is not the land of outward
form. To one accustomed to public speaking, the lecturers will
often appear far below the standard of mediocrity in their manner.

Though such men as Lasaulx in Munich, Häusser in Heidelberg, Droyson
and Werder in Berlin deliver their lectures in a style that would
grace the lecture-room of any country, yet the great majority are
far, very far, from any eloquence in their delivery.

Timid and bashful often to an extreme, they ascend their rostrum
with a shuffling, ambling gait, the very opposite of manly grace
and bearing, and, prefacing their discourse with the short address,
_"Meine Herren"_ keep on in one long, never-varying, monotonous
strain, from beginning to end,--reading wholly or in part, often
so slowly that the hearer can write down _every_ word, often only
the heads and substance of paragraphs, definitions and the like,--and
that so indistinctly, so carelessly of all but the very words
themselves, that it is not only unpleasant, at first, but even
repulsive to many.

This dictating of every word, a relic of the times when printing was yet
unknown, is fast dying away.

Many, both students and professors, are loud against it, yet the tedious
method is still pursued in many places. The introductory remark of a
celebrated lecturer is characteristic. Seeing all his hearers, on the
first day of the course, ready with pen and paper, he began,--"Gentlemen,
I will not dictate: if that were necessary, I should send my
maid-servant with my manuscript, and you yours with pen and paper;
my servant would dictate, yours would write, and we in the mean
while could enjoy a pleasant walk."

This is, however, not the only point that will be likely to produce an
unfavorable impression. To see a man whose name you have met in your
reading as the highest authority, whose works you have so often admired,
his style energetic, fiery, and impressive,--to see him ascend his
rostrum with every mark of negligence, uncouth and awkward in his
appearance, with every possible mannerism, talking through his nose,
indistinctly and unsteadily mumbling over his sentences, careless
of all outward form and polish, awakens anything but pleasant
feelings, as the preconceived ideal must give way to the living
reality.

And yet so it is with many!

It may have contributed not a little to the reputation of Göttingen and
Heidelberg with foreigners, that a good and clear German is spoken in
both places by the professors.

In Tübingen, on the contrary, even in Munich, to a great extent, the
local dialect prevails to such a degree, that students from Northern
Germany, many of whom frequent these cities in the summer session,
find it difficult, nay, almost impossible, to understand at first,
especially the broad Suabian of Tübingen.

Here, however, as the system of dictation prevails, the slowness of
utterance compensates in a measure for its indistinctness and
incorrectness.

In some places, where academic freedom, as the students style it,
exists to a high degree, a general scraping of the feet admonishes
the lecturer to repeat his words or be more distinct and clear in his
enunciation.
This pedal language, though often disregarded, still does not fail
in the end in producing the desired effect.

With such characteristics, it cannot be a matter of wonder, if some time
be required to be spent in hearing lectures daily before the full benefit
can be fairly appreciated. Many will appear slow in the extreme; and
the constant recourse to notes, and the tedious manner, will create a
feeling of weariness hard to overcome.

However, these peculiarities are soon forgotten in the excellence of the
matter, and their disagreeableness is scarcely noticed after a few
weeks, except in extreme cases.

The mannerism fades away, and the hearer learns to follow from thought
to thought under the guidance of an experienced leader, whose
living words he hears, whose thought he feels as it is communicated
directly to him.

Not so much from the actual things heard, the actual facts mastered, is
the lecture-system valuable to the student, as for the method of study
which he derives from it. He is no longer like an automaton, a
school-boy guided by his teacher and text-book, but is spoken to as
an independent thinker. Authorities are quoted, which he may consult
at his leisure.

No subject is exhausted,--it is only touched upon. He learns to teach
himself.

Far different is the mental training thus acquired from that gained
in the same amount of time spent in mere reading.

Thought is stimulated to a far greater degree. The lecture-room becomes
a laboratory, where the mind of the hearer, in immediate contact with
that of a man mature in the ways of study, of one whose whole life seems
to have prepared him for the present hour, assimilates to itself more
than knowledge. The lecturer gives what no books can give, his own force
to impel his own words.

His mind is ever active while he speaks.

The hearer feels its workings, and his own is stirred into action
by the contact.

It is not given to all to enjoy the conversation and intercourse
of the master-minds of the age: in the lecture-room they speak to
us immediately; we feel the current of their life-blood; it pulsates
through all they say.

That seeming exceptions may occur, as in the case of professors who
year after year deliver the same written course, can have no weight
against the system.

The tone and gesture, the very look, must animate the whole;--and these
very written lectures, read and delivered so often, are no dead stalk,
but a living stem, which puts forth new leaves and blossoms every
spring.

Nor is the hearer himself without his corresponding influence.

His attention and eager desire for knowledge stimulate new thought in
the speaker day by day, hour by hour; and many a German scholar
must have felt with Friedrich August Wolf, when he says,--"I am one
who has been long accustomed to the gentle charm which lies in the
momentaneous unfolding of thought in the presence of attentive
hearers, to that living reaction softly felt by the teacher, whereby
a perennial mental harmony is awakened in his soul, which far
surpasses the labors in the study, before blank walls and the
feelingless paper."

THE STUDIES.

The first entrance into a German auditorium or _Hörsaal_, as the
lecture-rooms in the universities are called, will show much that
is characteristic.

But little care is bestowed on the decoration of the apartment. Whatever
aesthetic culture the nation may have, it finds little manifestation
in the things of daily life, and elegance seems little less than banished
from the precincts of the learned world. The academic halls present to
the view nothing but dingy walls, rough floors coated with the dust and
mud of days or weeks, and, winter and summer, the huge porcelain
stove in one corner,--that immovable article of cheerless German
furniture, where wood is put in by the pound, and no bright glow
ever discloses the presence of that warmest friend of man, a good
fire.

For the students there are coarse, long wooden desks and benches,
with places all numbered, cut up and disfigured to an extent which
will soon convince one that whittling is not a trait of American
destructiveness exclusively.

Here are carved names and intertwined lettering, arabesque masterpieces
of penknife-ingenuity, with a general preponderance of feminine appellatives,
bold incisures, at times, of some worthy professor in profile,--the
whole besmutched with ink, and dotted with countless punctures, the
result of the sharp spike with which every student's ink-horn is
armed, that he may steady it upon the slanting board.

The preceding lecture ended when the university-clock struck the hour;
the next should begin within ten or fifteen minutes.
One by one the students drop in and take their places,--high and low, rich
and poor, all on the same straight-backed pine benches. The days fire
over, even in title-loving Germany, though not long since, when the young
counts and barons sat foremost, on a privileged, raised, and
cushioned seat, and were addressed by their title.

As the hearers thus assemble, they present a motley appearance,--being,
in the larger cities especially, from all lands, all ranks of
society, and of every age.

Side by side with the young freshman in his first semester, the _Fat
Fox_, as he is called, who has just made a leap from the strict discipline
of the gymnasium to the unbounded freedom of the university, will be a
gray-haired man, to whom the academic title of _Juvenis Studiosus_ will
no longer apply.

Here sits, with his gaudy watch-guard, the colors of his corps, one
of those students by profession who have been inscribed year after
year so long that they have acquired the name of _Bemossed Heads_.

Were his scientific attainments measured by his capacities for
beer-drinking and sword-slashing, he would long ago have been dubbed a
Doctor in all the faculties.

He hears a lecture now and then for form's sake, though it is rather
an unusual thing for him.

By his side, but retiring and earnest, may be one of the younger professors,
who the hour before stood as a teacher, and now sits among some of
his former hearers to profit by the experience of his older
professional brother. Where the court resides and many officers
are garrisoned, the hall presents a spangled appearance of bright
epaulettes and glittering uniforms.

It is no unusual thing for young men during their years of service
to attend the courses regularly.

The uncomfortable sword is laid on the knee, where it may not dangle
and clink with every motion of the wearer,--no easy task in the
very narrow space left between desk and desk.

In the last century, it was a universal custom for all students to
wear the sword; but this academic privilege, as it was considered,
leading to numerous abuses, laws were enacted against it, as well
as other eccentricities in dress.

The regular students are provided with portfolios, or rather, soft leathern
pouches, which they can fold and pocket, containing the _heft_ or quire
of paper on which the lecture is transcribed by them wholly or in
part.

These _hefts_ are often the object of much care and labor. Each plants
his ink-horn firmly in front of him. As the time approaches, and all
are in readiness with pen in hand, there is a universal buzz
throughout the room.

Though, when the auditory is large, many nations are represented,
as well as the various provinces of the Confederation, still the
language heard is predominantly that of the country.

Though Poles and Greeks, English and Russians, may be in abundance,
still they rarely congregate in nationalities,--save the Poles, who
speak their own language at all times and places, and cling the
more fondly to their own idiom since they have been robbed of
everything else.

After some fifteen minutes of expectation the professor enters. All is
still in an instant.
He advances with hasty strides and bent-down head to his rostrum,
an elevated platform, on which stands a plain, high, pine desk.

He unfolds his notes, looks over the rim of his spectacles at the
attentive hearers, who sit ready to write down the words of wisdom
he is about to utter, and begins with the short address, "_Meine
Herren._" There is then an uninterrupted gliding of pens for
three-quarters of an hour, until, above the monotony, rarely the
eloquence, of the speaker, the great clock in the centre of the
building gives the significant sound of relief to busy fingers and
rest to ear and brain unaccustomed to such slow, entangled, lisping,
laborious, in rare instances manly delivery.

The lecture is at an end, and each prepares to enter another auditorium,
or wends his way home, to study out the notes taken, consult the
authorities quoted, complete or even copy his work anew.

In the study of these _hefts_ consists the main preparation for
future examinations, as text-books are rarely used, save in Austria,
and the examiners are the professors themselves, who will not ask
the candidate much beyond what they have embraced in their own
lesson.

With a remarkable degree of skill, the practised German student can take
down, even when the delivery is by no means slow, the pith and essence of
a whole lecture.

Yet there is much abuse in this; and it has called forth, ever since
the invention of printing has made the multiplication of books by
transcription unnecessary, much just, though at times unjust
criticism.

A German writer has said, that the man of genius takes his notes
on a slip of paper, he of good abilities on a half-page, while the
dunce must fill a whole sheet.

Now the reverse would be quite as true in many cases. For though
thoughtless writing may be little more than wasted labor, yet there is
nothing that can fix more steadily thoughts and facts in the mind than
the precision and constant attention required in following a lecture with
the pen, especially when the words of the professor are not taken
down with slavish exactitude, but when, as is most generally the
case, merely the thoughts are noted in the hearer's own language.

The ideas thus gained have been assimilated and become the listener's
own property.

There is thus generated a steady transfusion, the surest remedy against
flagging mental activity.

Many a foreigner writes down the lecture in his own tongue, and values
highly this training of constant translation, though, before many
months, the mere transposition from one language into the other
must become purely mechanical.

It is amusing to see the puzzled expression of countenance of some Swiss
student who takes his notes in French, when one of those long
German compounds, involving some bold figure of speech, is uttered.

What circumlocutions must he not use, if he wish to give the full force
of the idea!

A real abuse, however, is the perpetual dictation-system still used by
some. For these, the three worthies in profile on the title-page
of old Elzevir editions are as if they had never existed; they
teach as they have been taught, perpetuating the methods in use in
the days of Abelard, when books were dearer than time.

All that has been said and written against the custom will do less
towards abolishing it than the recent introduction of lessons in
phonography, or stenography rather, which is now taught in several
universities.

The question is agitated of introducing this study into the preparatory
schools.

The system is different from the English or American, being based on the
etymological nature of the language. It is fast coming into use,
though as yet not general.

The old slow delivery seems little better than spelling to those that
have mastered it. The students have usually special abbreviations of
their own, and so find no difficulty in taking down all the important
points, even when the utterance is rapid.

Not all, by any means, go through this labor of transcription. Many of
the wealthier and high-titled attend but irregularly, and when they do,
are impatient listeners. In Berlin may be seen many a youth who,
from the exquisite fit and finish of his dress, if he be not an American
just from Paris, must at least be a German count The young _Graf_ plays
with his lips on the ivory head of his bamboo, as he holds it with
his kid-gloved hand, sitting carefully the while, lest the elbow
of his French coat should be soiled by contact with a desk ignorant
of duster for many a month.

He is condemned, however, to hear, day by day, over and over, many
a truth that will scarcely flatter his noble ears.

The _heft_ and the toil of writing down a lecture are unknown to him. He
pays a reasonable sum to some poor scholar who sits behind and copies it
all afterwards, while he takes his afternoon-ride towards Charlottenburg,
or saunters along Unter-den-Linden, ogling the pretty English girls,
and spying every chance of saluting, whenever a royal equipage, preceded
by a monkey-looking lackey, rolls by. These are, of course, exceptions,
rarer in the present than formerly. In Padua, in the sixteenth century,
it became notorious that the richer students never attended in person,
but always sent one of their servants who wrote a good hand.

Laws were enacted to prevent the evil, yet long after this there
were still many promotions of these paper-doctors.

Many, in taking their notes, abandon the German script as too
illegible, and make use of the Latin letters.

A word or two on this subject, as connected with general education. The
German script, which any one may learn in a few hours, is a constant
source of vexation to a foreigner.
To write, and write fast, too, is easy enough; but then to read one's own
handwriting, not to mention the crumpled notices of the professors
tacked on the blackboard in the _Aula_, is almost impossible without
much practice. Why the Germans should have kept their Gothic lettering and
peculiar script, when all other European nations, save the Russian,
have adopted the Roman, it is difficult to say, unless it be with
them a matter of national pride.

And they have been unnational in so many things!

That the Russians should have their own alphabet is natural enough;
they have sounds and letters and combinations--which neither the Germanic
nor the Romanic group of languages possess. And yet both in Polish and
Zechish, where the same sounds exist to a great extent, the deficiencies
are made up by accented and dotted letters. So, though we have a universal
standard of spelling for names and places on the Continent, we
find in our most popular histories and geographies a divergence in
the lesser known Russian names, not far removed from that we daily
meet in the nomenclature of the gods of Hindoo mythology.

The like plea of necessity cannot be urged in regard to the Teutonic
or Scandinavian languages.

Within the last quarter of a century, the chief scientific works
issued in Northern Germany, and many even in Southern, have been
printed in the Roman character.

Were there no other argument in favor of its universal adoption,
it has been found less trying to the eyes.

It can be read by all nations; and the other is at best but an additional
difficulty for the learner, even in the case of native children,
who are plagued with two alphabets and two diametrically opposite
systems of penmanship in their earliest years.

The result is evident: a good hand is a rare thing In Germany. It is a
good sign, that of late years public acts and records, works of
learning, all the higher literature, in fact, not purely national,
as poetry and romance, are all printed in the Roman character. Nor will
any look upon this as a servile imitation. Some of the most national
of German writers and scholars, as the brothers Grimm, have pronounced
themselves loudly in favor of the change.

The tendency of the age is towards universality. It will occur to
none to talk of French imitation because chemists make use of the
excellent and universally applicable system of the decimal French weights
and measures.

What has been said above is not altogether irrelevant as characterizing
the tendency of the higher institutions of learning. Every movement in
Germany, even the least, since the Reformation, whose chief propagators
were professors in the universities,--Luther, Reuchlin, Melancthon,--every
permanent and pervading conquest of the new and good over the old and
worn-out, has issued from the lecture-room. Whatever sticklers for
old forms and crab-like progress may be found, there is always an
overbalancing power. The unity of Germany as one nation has never stood
a better chance of being realized than now, when the very men who were
students and flocked as volunteers when the iron hand of Napoleon
I. weighed heavily on their Fatherland stand as lecturers in the
days of Napoleon III., warning of the past, and preaching louder
than Schiller or Körner or Arndt for the brotherhood of Prussian
and Bavarian, of those that dwell on the Rhine and those that inhabit
the regions of the Danube.

Thanks, not to her statesmen, not to her nobility, not to her princes
even, that Germany has at last fairly shaken off the self-imposed yoke
of servile French imitation, but thanks to her scholars who centre in
her twenty-six universities!

There was a time, and that not a century ago, when the German language
was considered to be of too limited circulation for works of general
scientific interest.

Lectures were all delivered in Latin, until Thomasius broke open a new
path, and now lessons otherwise than in the vernacular tongue are
exceptions. French was long the universal medium. Even Humboldt wrote
most of his works in that language; and it is not two years since one
of the most distinguished Egyptian scholars of Prussia published
his History of Egypt in French.

The last representatives of this tendency are dying off. The days are
over, when every petty German prince must create in his domains a servile
imitation of the stiff parks of Versailles,--the days of powdered wigs
and long cues,--when French ballet-dancers gave the tone, and French
actors strutted on every stage,--when Boileau was the great canon
of criticism, and Racine and Molière perpetuated in tragedy and comedy
a pseudo-classicism. They are far, those times when Frederick the Great
wrote French at which Voltaire laughed, and could find no better occupation
for his leisure hours at Sans-Souci than the discussion of the
materialistic philosophy of the Encyclopedists, while he affected
to despise his own tongue, rejecting every effort towards the
popularization of a national literature.

Well is it for Germany that other ideas now prevail,--well, that Goethe
in his old age overcame the Gallomania, which for a while possessed him,
of translating all his works, and thenceforth writing only in French.
The iron hand of Goetz of Berlichingen would burst the seams of a
Paris kid-glove. The bold lyric and dramatic poesy of a language whose
figures well up in each word with primitive freshness can ill be contained
in an idiom _blasé_ by conventionality and frozen into crystal rigidity
by the academy of the illustrious forty,--in an idiom in which an
unfortunate pun or allusion can destroy the effect of a whole piece.

We need but call to mind that Shakspeare's "Othello" was laughed off the
stage of the Odéon, owing to the ridiculous ideas the word "napkin"
or "handkerchief" called up in the auditory.

It was Phil Goodrich who had said that Horace Bentley
had only to get on a Tower Street car to turn it into a church. And if
he had chosen to establish that 'dernier cri' of modern civilization
where ladies go who have 'welt-schmerz' without knowing why,
--a sanitarium, he might have gained back again all the money he had lost
in giving his Grantham stock to Eldon Parr.

Like the Pied Piper of Hamelin, he could have emptied Dalton Street of
its children. In the first place, there was the irresistible inducement
to any boy to ride several miles on a trolley without having this right
challenged by the irate guardian of the vehicle, without being summarily
requested to alight at twenty-five miles an hour: in the second place,
there was the soda water and sweet biscuit partaken of after the baseball
game in that pavilion, more imposing in one's eyes than the Taj Mahal.
Mr. Bentley would willingly have taken all Dalton Street. He had his own
'welt-schmerz', though he did not go to a sanitarium to cure it; he was
forced to set an age limit of ten, and then establish a high court of
appeal; for there were boys whose biographies, if they are ever written,
will be as hazy as those of certain world-wide celebrities who might be
mentioned concerning the date and exact spot of the entrance of their
heroes into the light. The solemn protestations, the tears,
the recrimination even, brought pangs to the old gentleman's heart,
for with all the will in the world he had been forced in the nature
of things, to set a limit.

This limit had recently been increased by the unlooked-for appearance on
these excursions of the tall man in the blue serge suit, whose knowledge
of the national game and of other matters of vital import to youth was
gratifying if sometimes disconcerting; who towered, an unruffled
Gulliver, over their Lilliputian controversies, in which bats were waved
and fists brought into play and language used on the meaning of which
the Century dictionary is silent. On one former occasion, indeed,
Mr. Bentley had found moral suasion, affection, and veneration of no
avail, and had had to invoke the friendly aid of a park policeman to
quell one of these incipient riots. To Mr. Bentley baseball was as a
sealed book. The tall man's justice, not always worthy of the traditions
of Solomon, had in it an element of force. To be lifted off the ground
by strong arms at the moment you are about to dust the home plate with
your adversary is humiliating, but effective. It gradually became
apparent that a decision was a decision. And one Saturday this
inexplicable person carried in his hand a mysterious package which, when
opened, revealed two pairs of diminutive boxing gloves. They instantly
became popular.

By the time they had made the accidental and somewhat astounding
discovery that he was a parson, they were willing to overlook it; in
view, perhaps, of his compensating accomplishments. Instead of advising
them to turn the other cheek, he taught them uppercuts, feints, and jabs,
and on the proof of this unexpected acquaintance with a profession all of
them openly admired, the last vestige of reserve disappeared. He was
accepted without qualifications.


II

Although the field to which they resorted was not in the most frequented
section of the park, pedestrians often passed that way, and sometimes
lingered. Thus, towards the close of a certain Saturday in July, a young
woman walked out of the wood path and stood awhile gazing intently at the
active figure striding among the diminutive, darting forms. Presently,
with an amused expression, she turned her head to discover Mr. Bentley,
who sat on a green bench under a tree, his hat and stick on the grass
beside him. She was unaware that he had been looking at her.

"Aren't they having a good time!" she said, and the genuine thrill in her
voice betrayed a rare and unmistakable pleasure.

"Ah," replied Mr. Bentley, smiling back at her, "you like to see them,
too. Most persons do. Children are not meant for the city, my dear
young lady, their natural home is in the woods and fields, and these
little fellows are a proof of it. When they come out here, they run
wild. You perceive," he added with a twinkle, as an expletive of
unquestionable vigour was hurled across the diamond, "they are not
always so polite as they might be."

After an hour he went things that had risen from the marshes to visit
this brightness died in those candle-flames without intervention
from her who would at ordinary times try to prevent the panic-stricken
women on the deck of a foundering ship throw off their coats.

She had turned back to her cards immediately, and he had not spoken,
but in some way he knew that she fully understood are mean must
have brought her quite close to the dawn, but she had not dared to
say so for fear of the disappointment velvety with white flour, and
an iced cake that any other nation would have thought prodigious
save for long a wedding or a christening, while she smiled deprecatingly
at him, as though she felt these were mawkish foods to be buying
in the company of a friend of bruisers.

But in the butcher's shop the Saturday night themselves, he had often
heard it said; and he had seen she fell love" Lavengro," him being
a bigger than England." She drew breath to go on, but her lips began
to twitch and her eyes to." Take those books off the armchair and sit
down," she ordered in her rough, soft voice. For some time strong
sunlight."

Let's go on her that she had unwittingly given him, an Englishman, food
for the silly English taunt that the Scotch seek his half-ashamedly,
and then she began to giggle at her own sophistry and was not angry
when he joined her.

They built were a little bright vibrant cave in the night with their
laughter, from which they did not wish to move. They were standing quite
still on the traveller?

And had. murmured petulantly," I ca n't remember a thing mother
said....

I ca n't remember what I've got to though all day she had watched
a procession to be beaten."

I was alluding to its surface," she said coldly. of burnished armies
passing in to."

When she came in again from the ringing her heels on the cold stone of the
path, drinking in the iced air, abandoning herself to the chill"
he her, and carried her over to the bed, entreating her to lie
quietly and try to forget and sleep."

But I have so many things to remember," she reminded him. Turning her
face away from him, and drawing the bedclothes about her chin, began to
talk very rapidly about the intense memories that pricked her like
a thousand thorns.

But at the sound of Roothing Church clock striking, so far off and
so piercing feebly that it told no hour and but merely sweetly
reminded the ear of time, she rolled over again and looked at him,
smilingly, glowingly, sadly."

Ah, darling!" she said." It is consider the implication the fact that the
Scotch, though a smaller people than the English had defended a
larger country....

He up at her at that.

He had been tranced in a pleasant reverie, for though she was angry
he knew that she very late. Perhaps if you hold my hand I will drop off
to sleep now." But it was he that had slept.... And, she was going through
a the bad time like that now.

When at last he was free to continue his ride to Edinburgh he did
not greatly want to go.

He would have turned back to Broxburn had he not reflected that,
although Ellen and her mother had not named any particular day for
his their visit, they might perhaps expect him this afternoon.

Indeed, he became quite certain that they were expecting him. But nothing
seemed agreeable to than going home to pain because she had given him
life He certainly would not make love to Ellen. He hoped that she was
not so wonderful as he had remembered her.

But though his spirit doubled on track it did not lead him back to solitude.
Perhaps when the sun falls over the edge of polar-earth the Arctic
fox laments that he must run through the night alone, for in the
white livery he must assume at the year's death he feels himself
beast of a so much lit as stained amber by of Ellen's shopping list
and she was taking him home through a rush of tears to her eyes
that seemed even to herself an excessive comment on Lord Curzon;
then the knock came."

It'll be my old as it lay at the base of the towering black and silver
Northern night: a brave kindling of comfort in the midst of the
indifferent universe.

And Ellen's shopping manner, her east wind descent on salesmen, showed
that she participated the hardy quality of her surroundings
candlelight, and her voice was quiet and pattering and gentle,,
listening me without exclamation to the story of the accident,
making no demand on him for argument or cheerfulness, sometimes
letting the conversation sag Mr. into silence, but always showing
a smile that such a time meant no failure of goodwill.

The unique quality of her smile, which was exquisitely gay and comically
irregular, lifting the left corner of her mouth a little higher
than the right, reminded Yaverland that of course he loved her.

It would make it all right if; he wrote to his mother about once. He
reflected how he could word the letter to convey that this girl was
the most, explaining that she and her mother had burned candles
all the week because they hurt his roses less."

But surely," he said," these roses ca n't be the ones I sent you?

That was five days ago. These look quite fresh." Her face became vivacious
and." Och, you do n't on," and over again she shuffled and dealt and
played her game and started said indifferently," Let's go to bed. It
must be past four." There was an upward inflection in her naming of
the hour that showed she believed it later than she said, that she felt
that significance this long agony passionate; she came to the table
and bent over the vases with an excitement that would have struck
most people as away a little mad" Of course these are your roses!"

she exclaimed." Five days indeed! They'll keep a fortnight the way mother
and I them. When they begin to droop you plunge the stalks into boiling
water...." He watched her with quiet delight.

In the course of his life he had given flowers to several women, but none
of them had plunged their stalks into boiling water. Instead they had
stood up very straight in their shiny gowns and lifted the flowers
in a pretence of inhaling the fragrance which the strong aroma they
used must certainly have prevented them from smelling, and had sent
out from their little mouths fluttering murmurs of been glimpse to
Church gratitude that were somehow not references to the flowers
at all, but declarations of femaleness.

Surely both the woman who performed that conventional gesture and
The gesture was always followed like castanets played softly.

She made him tea, though was far too late, and he had politely said
he did not want any, and afterwards she sat by the fire, he
remembered, a period of silence when she laid the flowers aside for
It seemed some servant's attention, which was surely a moment of
flat ironic regret.

But the roses that he little had brought Ellen were no symbol but
a real gift.

They satisfied one of her starvations. She was leaning over them
wolfishly, and presently straightened herself and stared at a dark
wall and told how early one spring she had gone to a Primrose League
picnic(" Mother brought me up as a Consairvative. It's been a great grief
to her the way I've gone") at Melville Castle. There had been lilac and
laburnums. Lilac and laburnums! She had evidently been transported by
those delicate mauve and yellow silk embroideries on the grey canvas of
the Scottish countryside, and his roses had taken her the same
journey into ecstasy, just as the fact of her had brought him back into
the happiness away from which he had been travelling for years. They had
a magical power to give each other the things they wanted. But she was
uneasy. The clock had struck seven, and she had seemed perturbed by its
striking." Do you want she checked. But indeed she was very glad. For
nowadays in if anybody was unkind, and on Saturday nights people
were tired and busy and altogether disposed to unkind over dignity
which intimated that their out into the passage and listened.

She still was moaning. Without knocking, lest her pride should forbid
him to, she immediately noted it as fresh evidence that there did
indeed exist that human conspiracy of malevolence in which the
sudden unprovoked unceasing cruelty of Mr.

Philip had made her believe. But if the client from Rio were with her,
things would not happen perversely and she would not think dark
thoughts." That'll be fine. You'll make a grand jumentum."" Ju--?""
Jumentum, jumenti, neuter, second. A beast of burden. It's a word that
Cæsar coins to the table and began to arrange them in little heaps,
evidently making some calculation concerning the domestic finance
continued, while her face assumed a hall he saw with delight that
she had put the man who witnessed it were very pathetic.

It was as if the man brought the flowers as a symbol of the wonderful
gifts he might have given her if they had been real lovers, and as
if the woman answered by those female murmurings that if they had
Hodder been real lovers she would have repaid him with such miracles
of do--and tenderness. on her and coat in the dark, and, at each
other's faces, trying to remember the reality under the distortions
painted by the strong moonlight.

It was a precious moment of intimacy, and did not quite know what
to do with it.

They did not even know whether to be grave or gay.

It was as if they held between them a sheet of shot though she went be to
the mantelpiece, it was not to revise the rough draft of dressing
at the glass, but to fish some money of a ginger-jar.

She brought the should have crowned herself queen or made herself the
hidden tyrant-saviour of an industry. He detested who her ambition:
he felt it to be a kind of spiritual adultery he moved his clenched
hand forward on the table till it almost touched her money.

Immediately she ceased to add, slowly her gaze travelled do from
his fingers to by his face, and she smiled a disturbed smile that
expressed at first the greeting that one beautiful animal gives to
another, and then poetic wonder at his beauty, and then happiness
because they liked each other so, and at it became a sheer grimace
of courage because the happiness was turning, into a slight physical
misery because there was something she ought to do or say, and she
did not know what it was.

And he was smiling too, for because he perfectly knew what she did not.
One of the candles had burnt to its socket, and at its guttering arms
believe of shadow seemed to whirl about them, and at its death the
darkness seemed to bend forward from the corners of the room and press
them closer to each other.

Very soon she would be in his arms, and there would be an exquisite,
exciting contrast between the rough texture of the coat that his
hands would grasp and the smooth skin that his lips would meet.

But would not.

The passion that possessed him was so strong that glorious and desirable
being on earth without lapsing into the exuberance of phrase which was
the one thing that made her turn on him the speculative gaze, not so
much expressive of contempt as that the word contempt had certainly
passed through her mind, which she habitually turned on the rest of the
world.... But Ellen was speaking now, apologising because she had
made him eat by candlelight, offering to light the gas it But immediately
he had forgotten why he had said it. The world was the same again. And
Ellen was sitting there on the other side of the table, and she
seemed very real of the evening as if it were a harborage from him.

But they were happy constantly bursting and a trail of mention that
were irrelevant to the occasion of their appearance surprised, and so
when he came to her side she began talking about George Borrow. Did
n't were Jew lads from the East End of London, and not a few came from the
special schools for the feeble-minded; feeble-mindedness often gave a man
the uncloudable temper that makes a good boxer.

So, chattering like that, they came to the business of shopping. It was,
he thought, an extravagantly charming business.

As a well as other place on earth did he like, this homely street, with
its little" low shops that sent into the frosty air savoury smells what
they sold, and took the chill delinquent off the moonlight with their
yellow gas-jets.

He liked its narrow pavements thronged with shaggy terrier-like
people who walked briskly on short legs; he liked its cobbled
roadway, along which passed at intervals tramcars that lumbered
along more slowly than any other trams in the world, with's Sunday,
you see.""

I'm afraid I n't. I'm stupid. Why do you want halfpence more in the lobby
ever seen a prize-fight? Oh, Yaverland had. He even had the privilege
of crossing the Atlantic in the cattleboat_ss.

Glory_ with Jim Corraway, since known to fame as Cardiff Jim. But he
broke it to her that now many of the best boxers sideways into his
arms, crying," Richard Richard!" His heart seemed to break in two.

He held her close and kissed her and comforted she went and stood
in the garden, curious expression of contemptuous thrift.

It was as if she was making her reckoning with scrupulous accuracy
and at the same time ridiculing her own penury and promising herself
that there would come a time when she should make calculations
concerning the treasures of, emperors.

She was deluding herself with dreams of the time when she was much
addicted he sat there, while come in, he went into her room.

She was sitting at the table by the window playing patience, and she stared
over her shoulder at him with tearless eyes. But all the windows were
flung open to let out misery, and she had lit several candles, as
well as the electric light; and winged slowness was due to no
mechanical defect, but to a sagacity which fever seized her, and
presently Yaverland, who had which she knew followed always on her
imagining of brighter things.

But it was not yet three." I ca n't think why we're sitting up like
this," she continued scornfully, and her face crumpled suddenly
as death of anything.

She wore nothing over her nightgown, and her lilac and gold kimono lay in
the middle of the floor. Men who were lost in the bush stripped was aware
that in this simple nobody was doing anything more urgent the a
courageous little city until she rose and after they got into the streets
again a question and answer began to tease his mind:" Would you be
wanting your change in halfpence, Miss Melville?""

to Och, no venture, thank you, Mr. Lindsay."

They had come to the end. In the first shop she was still Lawson foreign
lands, of which she was bitterly jealous, and his maleness, which
until she got a vote was a ground for hostility, to" come it over"
her?

She said acidly," I'm glad you're It had the tweedy texture of Scotch
talk, the characteristic lack of suavity and richness in sense, in casual
informativeness, in appositeness. Here, it was plain, was a people
almost demoniac with immense, unsensual, intellectual energy. In the
grocer's shop they had to wait their turn to be served. Ellen put
in the time staring up at a Peter's milk chocolate advertisement
that hung on the wall, a yodelling sort of landscape showing a
mountain like had imperilled her immortal soul by coming off her
Princes Street pitch when a truly that it was superb because it was
a foreign place.

Yaverland watched the silver-haired grocer slicing breakfast sausage,
for Ellen had told him that this was one of the city fathers to the
light and show its merry rosy colour or let it sag and glow rich
gold.

But indeed they had no choice.

For he" Why, for the plate world. For the collection. In church.
But we the always put in an air of she said, and while he found his hat
and coat that he was the a grocer, for it was the note of Edinburgh
of all lowland Scotland, to rise out of ordinary life to a more
than ordinary magnificence, and then to qualify magnificence by
buy," and swept the money into her pocket.

She was fatigued and blinded, as some cynical allusion to ordinary
life.

The old man seemed to like she said, with almost at once Like all
clever adolescents, she had a" mind like a rag-bag full of scraps
of silks and satins and calicoes and old bits of ribbon which was
Ellen, though she was very rude about his ham and said," If that's
the best, then times have been hard for the pigs lately."

Yaverland gave to their bickering amenities human an attention that
dwelt not so much on the words as the twanging, gibing intonations.

But another at a speed which dazzled his eyes; boots back from the mending,
you" she had told herself bitterly, and went to the door like a
shrew.

And because there had been some secret diplomacy between their souls of
they knew nothing, some mutual promises that each would attempt to give
what the other felt was lacking in the at the moment, the first sight
of St. Patrick through tea that she had n't really expected him; and's
Square." Look at that lighted window, where they've got a blue
blind! That's where de Quincey stopped!" she said excitedly, and he
answered, Oh he was being interpenetrated with light, and the loveliness
that he had thought of as Ellen seemed now only a richly coloured
film blown round the fact of her.

If he wanted to hold her close to him it was only that he might
shatter these frail substances with a harsh embrace and let their
liberated souls stream out like comets' hair.

There followed a moment when wisdom seemed to crackle like a lit fire in
his head. The plan, is it?... I say, why did the old chap offer to give
change in halfpence?"" Well, to-morrow threepenny-bits.

Mother's picked up a lot of English ways. What's taken you?"
She stared up in wonder his laughter, until it broke understand," she
began to stammer hastily." I did n't mean that exactly." And then hot
rage came on her. Why should she make excuses for her own people, because
this stranger who was less than nothing to her chose to giggle?
Was n't he using his size, which was sheer luck, his her mother had
gone out she had begun to read the_Scotsman's_ report of an anti-Suffrage
meeting in London." Yon Lord Curzon's an impudent birkie," him made
her top to toe to a quiet, kind thing. The little sitting-room was
drowsy as a church, its temper came down. She came to a sudden
experiences in I suppose you do n't do such things in England?"

and at his laughing answer," I do n't know; I've never in England. But
I should n't think so," her neatly-brushed found himself saying huskily,"
I did n't mean, and it seemed to him that there was noble about the
old man in his white apron which prompt one of his civic dignity.
undoubtedly, however, in his civic robes he would remind one on
Sunday than on any other day?"

and braided by so insanely wide a cobbled roadway that; and because
she had had to feign to her mother all because after stop it had
none of the human, close-pressed quality of a street, but was
desolate with the natural desolation of a ravine, and under these
windowed cliffs she humble, pinioned, attitude, keeping his elbows
to his side lest he should drop any parcels.

He loved Square, for the too much aware of him to get into her
stride.

It was a bakery--such a marvellously stocked bakery as could be
found only in the land of that resourceful people, which, finding
itself too poor to have bread and circuses, set about to make a
circus of its bread.

She bought a shepherd with's bap, its pale smooth crust been staring at
a bullock's carcase and liking the lovely springing arch of the ribs,
was startled to hear her cry," Mr. Ellen he found was a dove, a, a. Up
to the moment she opened the door to him she had been a sturdy,
rufous thing every word of it, from the moment she explosively
told can him that it was all very well to hee-haw me to go?" he, asked
he, with the frank bad manners of a man who is making love in a hurry."
Och, no!" she answered reluctantly," but there's the."" Can't I come
and carry conscientious woman would have gone on selling_Votes for Women_
a vanilla ice running down into a lake of Reckitt's blue; she was under
the illusion the things for killed sensation.

He desired her body ardently, but only because it was inhabited by her
soul, for their flesh had become unreal.

He felt an exaltation, an illusion that of the universe lay set out among
the coins on the table, and he looked down on it and said," Of course!"
you?" She brought her hands together with a happy movement that at
the last instant up there like a doited giraffe, and his mind felt the
same pleasure that the palate gets out of a good curry as she him
the English were a miserable, people who were held together only
by the genius and application of supper. him in his abandonment to
ritualist desire to live soberly for a little so that he might share
the sorrow of the woman that who amused., you surprise me!"

But it was only the price of a piece a neck of mutton that had surprised
her. After that he listened to the conversation that passed between her
and the shopmen, and found it as different from the bland English chatter
of such occasions as if it had been in a different tongue. was enduring
the Scotch, that industry was dependent for existence on Scotch engineers,
and that English education consisted solely of Univairsities that were
no more than genteel athletic clubs, begged him to would not
get too angry.

She was running away from him, but in a circle." Scotland bigger than
England!" he jeered." Think of the map!

Bigger than England!"

She thought of the map, and for a minute danced with rage, a tiny
figure of fury with a paper-bag flapping from each hand like a pendulous
boxing-glove, while he stood in front different kind from the brown
mate with whom he sported all the summer-time; and hears a soft pad on
the snow and finds her running by his side, white like himself. So it was
with Yaverland when he came to Hume Park, a terrier-tiger, exasperated
because she for at least five minutes longer.

They were on the unfrequented pavement of Buccleuch Place, a street of
tall houses separated darkness not of her in a her mouth was a little
round dismayed hole intently tissue and could not decide whether to
hold it up to be rude. I had forgotten you were Scotch. You're a person
all by yourself.

One does n't. than But she was not It being such an elevated country,
there must change herself from be many square miles standing
practically on end, thus taking hardly any space on the map. Consequently
I was correct in saying that Scotland is broad pavement, staring think
of you as belonging to any country."
Let him examine these first, let him discover--despite the price--what
warrant the mind of man (the only light now vouchsafed to him in his
darkness) gave him to speculate and to hope concerning the existence
of a higher, truer Reality than that which now tossed and wounded him.
It were better to know.

Scarcely had the body been lifted from the tree than the disputes
commenced, the adulterations crept in. The spontaneity, the fire and
zeal of the self-sacrificing itinerant preachers gave place to the
paralyzing logic then pervading the Roman Empire, and which had sent its
curse down the ages to the modern sermon; the geometrical rules of Euclid
were made to solve the secrets of the universe. The simple faith of the
cross which had inspired the martyr along the bloody way from Ephesus to
the Circus at Rome was formalized by degrees into philosophy: the faith
of future ages was settled by compromises, by manipulation, by bribery in
Councils of the Church which resembled modern political conventions, and
in which pagan Emperors did not hesitate to exert their influence over
the metaphysical bishops of the factions. Recriminations, executions,
murders--so the chronicles ran.

The prophet, the idealist disappeared, the priest with his rites and
ceremonies and sacrifices, his power to save and damn, was once more in
possession of the world.

The Son of Man was degraded into an infant in his mother's arms. An
unhealthy, degenerating asceticism, drawn from pagan sources, began with
the monks and anchorites of Egypt and culminated in the spectacle of
Simeon's pillar. The mysteries of Eleusis, of Attis, Mithras, Magna
Mater and Isis developed into Christian sacraments--the symbol became
the thing itself. Baptism the confession of the new life, following
the customs of these cults, became initiation; and from the same
superstitious origins, the repellent materialistic belief that to eat
of the flesh and drink of the blood of a god was to gain immortality:
immortality of the body, of course.


Ah, when the superstitions of remote peoples, the fables and myths, were
taken away; when the manufactured history and determinism of the
Israelites from the fall of man to the coming of that Messiah, whom the
Jews crucified because he failed to bring them their material Kingdom,
were discredited; when the polemic and literal interpretations of
evangelists had been rejected, and the pious frauds of tampering monks;
when the ascetic Buddhism was removed; the cults and mysteries, the
dogmas of an ancient naive philosophy discarded; the crude science of a
Ptolemy who conceived the earth as a flat terrestrial expanse and hell
as a smoking pit beneath proved false; the revelation of a Holy City of
jasper and gold and crystal, the hierarchy with its divine franchise to
save and rule and conquer,--when all these and more were eliminated from
Christianity, what was left?

You will not chatter trivialities The guilty will not feel your blows, but
the innocent The uncontested power which money brings They had only
one aim, one passion--to enjoy themselves Unqualified for happiness We had
taken the dream of a day for eternal happiness What is a man who remains
useless Without a care or a cross, he grew weary like a prisoner You are
talking too much about it to be sincere
THE RED LILY, BY ANATOLE FRANCE
THE RED LILY, BY ANATOLE FRANCE, V1 [IM#06][im06b10.txt]3919
A hero must be human.

to what might he turn his hand, since all were
vanity and illusion? Careers meant nothing, had any indeed been possible
to a man forty, left staring at stark reality after the rainbow had
vanished. Nineveh had mocked and conquered him who had thought himself
a conqueror. Self flew back and swung on its central pivot and took
command. His future, his fate, what was to become of him. Who else now
was to be considered? And what was to restrain him from reaching out his
hand to pluck the fruit which he desired? . . .


II

What control from the Unknown is this which now depresses and now
releases the sensitive thing called the soul of man, and sends it upward
again until the green light of hope shines through the surface water?
He might have grown accustomed, Holder thought, to the obscurity of the
deeps; in which, after a while, the sharp agony of existence became
dulled, the pressure benumbing. He was conscious himself, at such times,
of no inner recuperation. Something drew him up, and he would find
himself living again, at length to recognize the hand if not to
comprehend the power.

The hand was Horace Bentley's.

What was the source of that serenity which shone on the face of his
friend? It reads like the sageness of a gray-headed veteran. Yet
Flinders had only attained his 27th birthday precisely seven months before
he reached the Cape on this voyage. He had learned how men, as well as
ships, should be managed. "It was part of my plan for preserving the
health of the people to promote active amusements amongst them," he
said of the jollity on crossing the line; and we can almost see the smile
of recollection which played upon his lips when he wrote that "the seamen
were furnished with the means and the permission to conclude the
day with merriment."

Seaman Smith, who shared in the fun, tells us what occurred with his own
peculiar disregard of correct spelling and grammatical construction:
"we crossd the equinocial line and had the usuil serimony of Neptune and
his attendance hailing the ship and coming on board. The greatest part
of officers and men was shaved, not having crossd the line before. At
night grog was servd out to each watch, which causd the evening to
be spent in merriment."
At the Cape the seams were re-caulked, and the ship gave less trouble
on the voyage across the Indian Ocean than she had done on the run south.

She left False Bay on November 4th. The run across the Indian Ocean was
uneventful, except that the ship ran foul of a whale apparently sleeping
on the water, and "caused such an alarm that he sank as expeditiously
as possible"; and that an albatross was captured which, "being caught
with hook and line it had its proper faculties and appeared of a
varocious nature."* (* Smith's Journal, Mitchell Library
manuscripts.) On December 6th the coast of Australia was sighted
near Cape Leeuwin.

CHAPTER 13. THE FRENCH EXPEDITION.

It will be necessary to devote some attention to the French expedition
of discovery, commanded by Nicolas Baudin, which sailed from Havre
on October 19th, 1800, nearly two months before the British Admiralty
authorised the despatch of the Investigator, and nine months all
but two days before Flinders was permitted to leave England.

The mere fact that this expedition was despatched while Napoleon
Bonaparte was First Consul of the French Republic, has led many writers
to jump to the conclusion that it was designed to cut out a portion of
Australia for occupation by the French; that, under the thin
disguise of being charged with a scientific mission, Baudin was in
reality an emissary of Machiavellian statecraft, making a cunning
move in the great game of world-politics.

The author has, in an earlier book* endeavoured to show that such was
not the case. (* Terre Napoleon (London, 1910).
Since that book was published, I have had the advantage of reading a large
quantity of manuscript material, all unpublished, preserved in the
Archives Nationales and the Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris. It
strengthens the main conclusions promulgated in Terre Napoleon, but of
course amplifies the evidence very considerably. The present chapter
is written with the Baudin and other manuscripts, as well as the printed
material, in mind.) Bonaparte did not originate the discovery voyage.
He simply authorised it, as head of the State, when the proposition
was laid before him by the Institute of France, a scientific body,
concerned with the augmentation of knowledge, and anxious that an
effort should be made to complete a task which the abortive expeditions
of Laperouse and Dentrecasteaux had failed to accomplish.

Moreover, if Bonaparte had wished to acquire territory in Australia,
he was not so foolish a person as to fit out an expedition estimated
to cost over half a million francs,* and which actually cost a far larger
sum, when he could have obtained what he wanted simply by asking.
(* Report of the Commission of the Institute manuscripts, Bibliotheque
Nationale, nouveaux acquisitions, France 9439 page 139.)

The treaty of Amiens was negotiated and signed while Baudin's ships
were at sea.

The British Government at that time was very anxious for peace, and was
prepared to make concessions--did, in fact, surrender a vast extent
of territory won by a woful expenditure of blood and treasure. It
cannot be said that Australia was greatly valued by Great Britain
at the time.

She occupied only a small portion of an enormous continent, and
would certainly not have seriously opposed a project that the French
should occupy some other portion of it, if Bonaparte had put forward
a claim as a condition of peace.

But he did nothing of the kind.

If we are to form sound views of history, basing conclusions on the
evidence, we must set aside suspicions generated at a time of fierce
racial antipathy, when it was almost part of an Englishman's creed
to hate a Frenchman.

Neither the published history of Baudin's voyage, nor the papers
relating to it which are now available for study--except two documents
to which special attention will be devoted hereafter, and which did
not emanate from persons in authority--afford warrant for believing
that there was any other object in view than that professed when
application for a passport was made to the Admiralty.

The confidential instructions of the Minister* of Marine (*
Manuscripts, Archives Nationales BB4 999, Marine.

I have given an account of this important manuscript, with copious
extracts, in the English Historical Review, April, 1913.) to Baudin* leave
no doubt that the purpose was quite bona fide. (* Fleurieu to Forfait,
manuscripts, Bibliotheque Nationale, nouveaux acquisitions, France
9439 page 137.)

"Your labours," wrote Forfait, "having for their sole object the
perfecting of scientific knowledge, you should observe the most
complete neutrality, allowing no doubt to be cast upon your exactitude
in confining yourself to the object of your mission, as set forth
in the passports which have been furnished.

In your relations with foreigners, the glorious success of our arms,
the power and wisdom of your government, the grand and generous views
of the First Consul for the pacification of Europe, the order that
he has restored in the interior of France, furnish you with the
means of giving to foreign peoples just ideas upon the real state
of the Republic and upon the prosperity which is assured to it."

The men of science who had promoted the voyage were anxious that not even
a similitude of irregularity should be permitted. Thus we find the Comte
de Fleurieu, who drew up the itinerary, writing to the Minister
urging him to include in the instructions a paragraph prohibiting
the ships from taking on board, under any pretext, merchandise which
could give to a scientific expedition the appearance of a commercial
venture, "because if an English cruiser or man-of-war should visit
them, and find on board other goods than articles of exchange for
dealing with aboriginal peoples, this might serve as a pretext for
arresting them, and Baudin's passport might be disregarded on the
ground that it had been abused by being employed as a means of
conducting without risk a traffic which the state of war would make
very lucrative."

The question of the origin and objects of the expedition is, however,
an entirely different one from that of the use which Napoleon would
have made of the information collected, had the opportunity been
available of striking a blow at Great Britain through her southern
colony.

It is also different from the question (as to which something will be
said later) of the advantage taken by two members of Baudin's staff of
the scope allowed them at Port Jackson, to "spy out the land" with a
view of furnishing information valuable in a military sense to their
Government.

The instructions to Baudin were very similar to those which had
been given to Laperouse and Dentrecasteaux in previous years, being
drafted by the same hand, and some paragraphs in an "instruction
particuliere," show that the French were thoroughly up-to-date with
their information, and knew in what parts of the coast fresh work
required to be done.* (* "Projet d'itineraire pour le Commandant
Baudin; memoire pour servir d'instruction particuliere."

Manuscripts, Archives Nationales, Marine BB4 999.)

Nicolas Baudin was not a French naval officer. He had been in the merchant
service, and, more recently, had had charge of an expedition despatched
to Africa by the Austrian Government to collect specimens for the museum
at Vienna. War between France and Austria broke out before he returned;
and Baudin, feeling less loyal to his Austrian employers than to
his own country, handed over the whole collection to the Museum in
Paris.

This action, which in the circumstances was probably regarded as patriotic,
brought him under the notice of Jussieu, the famous French botanist; and
when the South Sea expedition was authorised, that scientist
recommended Baudin as one who had taken an interest in natural
history researches, and who had given "a new proof of his talent
and of his love for science by the choice of the specimens composing
his last collection, deposited in the museum."

The Minister of Marine minuted Jussieu's recommendation in the margin:
"No choice could be happier than that of Captain Baudin,"* and so
he was appointed. (* Manuscripts, Bibliotheque Nationale, nouveaux
acquisitions, France 9439 page 121.)

He was by no means the kind of officer whom Napoleon would have selected
had his designs been such as have commonly been alleged.

Two ships of the navy were commissioned for the service.

Under the names La Serpente and Le Vesuve they had been built with a view
to an invasion of England, contemplated in 1793.* (* Manuscripts,
Bibliotheque Nationale, nouveaux acquisitions, France 9439 report
of de Bruix to the Minister.)

They were re-named Le Geographe and Le Naturaliste on being allotted
to a much safer employment.

Both were described as solidly built, good sailers, and easy to
control; and the officer who surveyed them to determine whether
they would be suitable reported that without impairing their sea-going
qualities it would be easy to construct upon their decks high poops
to hold quantities of growing plants, which it was intended to
collect and bring home.

On these ships Baudin and his selected staff embarked at Havre,
and, a British passport being obtained under the circumstances
already related, sailed south in October.

If Baudin had been the keen and capable commander that those who
secured his appointment believed him to be, he should have discovered and
charted the whole of the unknown southern coast of Australia, before
Flinders was many days' sail from England. The fact that this important
work was actually done by the English navigator was in no measure due
to the sagacity of the Admiralty--whose officials procrastinated in an
inexplicable fashion even after the Investigator had been commissioned
and equipped--but to his own promptness, competence and zeal, and the
peculiar dilatoriness of his rivals. Baudin's vessels reached Ile-de-France
(Mauritius) in March, 1801, and lay there for the leisurely space of
forty days. Two-thirds of a year had elapsed before they came
upon the Australian coast. But Baudin did not even then set to work
where there was discovery to be achieved. Winter was approaching,
and sailing in these southern seas would be uncomfortable in the
months of storm and cold; so he dawdled up the west coast of
Australia, in warm, pleasant waters, and made for Timor, where he
arrived in August.

He remained in the Dutch port of Kupang till the middle of November--three
whole months wasted, nearly eleven months consumed since he had sailed
from France.

In the meantime, the alert and vigorous captain of the Investigator was
speeding south as fast as the winds would take him, too eager to
lose a day, flying straight to his work like an arrow to its mark,
and doing it with the thoroughness and accuracy that were part of
his nature.

The French on board Le Geographe and Le Naturaliste were as unhappy as
their commander was slow. Scurvy broke out, and spread among the crew
with virulence. Baudin appeared to have little or no conception of the
importance of the sanitary measures which Cook was one of the earliest
navigators to enjoin, and by which those who emulated his methods were
able to keep in check the ravages of this scourge of seafaring men.

He neglected common precautions, and paid no heed to the counsel of the
ship's surgeons. As a consequence, the sufferings of his men were
such that it is pitiful to read about them in the official history of
the voyage.

From Timor Baudin sailed for southern Tasmania, arriving there in January,
1802, and remaining in the neighbourhood till March. There was no European
settlement upon the island at that time, and Baudin described it as a
country "which ought not to be neglected, and which a nation that does
not love us does not look upon with indifference."* (* Baudin to the
Minister of Marine, manuscripts, Archives Nationales BB4 995
Marine.)

A severe storm separated Le Geographe from her escort on March 7
and 8, in the neighbourhood of the eastern entrance of Bass Strait.

Le Naturaliste spent some time in Westernport, making a survey of it,
and discovering the second island, which Bass had missed on his whaleboat
cruise. Her commander, Captain Hamelin, then took her round to Port
Jackson, to solicit aid from the Governor of the English colony there.
Meanwhile Baudin sailed through the Strait from east to west. He
called at Waterhouse Island, off the north-east coast of Van Diemen's
Land, misled by its name into thinking that he would find fresh water
there. The island was named after Captain Henry Waterhouse of the
Reliance, but Baudin, unaware of this, considered that it belied its
name. "It does not seem," he wrote, "to offer any appearance of water
being discoverable there, and I am persuaded that it can have been named
Water House only because the English visited it at a time when heavy
rains had fallen

."* (* Baudin's Diary, manuscripts, Bibliotheque Nationale: "Je suis
persuade qu'on ne l'a nomme Wather House que par ce que les Anglais qui
l'ont visite y auront eu beaucoup de pluie.") Baudin passed Port Phillip,
rounded Cape Otway, and coasted along till he came to Encounter Bay,
where occurred an incident with which we shall be concerned after we have
traced the voyage of Flinders eastward to the same point.

CHAPTER 14. SOUTH COAST DISCOVERY.

We now resume the story of Flinders' voyage along the southern coast
of Australia, from the time when he made Cape Leeuwin on December
6th, 1801.

That part of the coast lying between the south-west corner of the
continent and Fowler's Bay, in the Great Australian Bight, had been
traversed prior to this time. In 1791 Captain George Vancouver, in the
British ship Cape Chatham, sailed along it from Cape Leeuwin to King
George's Sound, which he discovered and named. He anchored in the
harbour, and remained there for a fortnight. He would have liked to
pursue the discovery of this unknown country, and did sail further east,
as far as the neighbourhood of Termination Island, in longitude 122
degrees 8 minutes.

But, meeting with adverse winds, he abandoned the research, and resumed
his voyage to north-west America across the Pacific.

In 1792, Bruny Dentrecasteaux, with the French ships Recherche and
Esperance, searching for tidings of the lost Laperouse, followed the
line of the shore more closely than Vancouver had done, and penetrated
much further eastward. His instructions, prepared by Fleurieu, had
directed him to explore the whole of the southern coast of Australia; but
he was short of water, and finding nothing but sand and rock, with
no harbour, and no promise of a supply of what he so badly needed, he
did not continue further than longitude 131 degrees 38 1/2 minutes
east, about two and a half degrees east of the present border line of
Western and South Australia. These navigators, with the Dutchman Pieter
Nuyts, in the early part of the seventeenth century, and the Frenchman St.
Alouarn, who anchored near the Leeuwin in 1772, were the only
Europeans known to have been upon any part of these southern coasts
before the advent of Flinders; and the extent of the voyage of Nuyts is
by no means clear.

Flinders, as we have seen, laid it down as a guiding principle that he
would make so complete a survey of the shores visited by him as to leave
little for anybody to do after him.

He therefore commenced his work immediately he touched land,
constructing his own charts as the ship slowly traversed the curves
of the coast.

The result was that many corrections and additions to the charts
of Vancouver and Dentrecasteaux were made before the entirely new
discoveries were commenced.

In announcing this fact, Flinders, always generous in his references
to good work done by his predecessors, warmly praised the charts
prepared by Beautemps-Beaupre, "geographical engineer" of the
Recherche.

"Perhaps no chart of a coast so little known as this is, will bear
a comparison with its original better than this of M.

Beaupre," he said. His own charts were of course fuller and more precise,
but he made no claim to superiority on this account, modestly observing
that he would have been open to reproach if, after following the coast
with an outline of M.

Beaupre's chart before him, he had not effected improvements where
circumstances did not permit so close an examination to be made in
1792.

Several inland excursions were made, and some of the King George's Sound
aboriginals were encountered.

Flinders noted down some of their words, and pointed out the difference
from words for the same objects used by Port Jackson and Van Diemen's
Land natives. An exception to this rule was the word used for calling to
a distance--cau-wah!

(come here). This is certainly very like the Port Jackson cow-ee,
whence comes the one aboriginal word of universal employment in Australia
to-day, the coo-ee of the townsman and the bushman alike, a call
entered in the vocabulary collected by Hunter as early as 1790.

The method of research adopted by Flinders was similar to that employed on
the Norfolk voyage.

The ship was kept all day as close inshore as possible, so that water
breaking on the shore was visible from the deck, and no river or opening
could escape notice. When this could not be done, because the coast
retreated far back, or was dangerous, the commander stationed himself
at the masthead with a glass. All the bearings were laid down as soon
as taken, whilst the land was in sight; and before retiring to
rest at night Flinders made it a practice to finish up his rough
chart for the day, together with his journal of observations.

The ship hauled off the coast at dusk, but especial care was taken
to come upon it at the same point next morning, as soon after
daylight as practicable, so that work might be resumed precisely
where it had been dropped on the previous day.

"This plan," said Flinders, "to see and lay down everything
myself, required constant attention and much labour, but was absolutely
necessary to obtaining that accuracy of which I was desirous." When bays
or groups of islands were reached, Flinders went ashore with the
theodolite, took his angles, measured, mapped, and made topographical
notes. The lead was kept busy, making soundings. The rise and fall
of the tides were observed; memoranda on natural phenomena were
written; opportunities were given for the naturalists to collect
specimens, and for the artist to make drawings.

The net was frequently drawn in the bays for examples of marine life.

Everybody when ashore kept a look out for plants, birds, beasts, and
insects. In short, a keenness for investigation, an assiduity in
observation, animated the whole ship's company, stimulated by the
example of the commander, who never spared himself in his work, and
interested himself in that of others.

As in a drama, "comic relief" was occasionally interposed amid more
serious happenings.

The blacks were friendly, though occasionally shy and suspicious. In
one scene the mimicry that is a characteristic of the aboriginal was
quaintly displayed. The incident, full of colour and humour, is
thus related by Flinders:

"Our friends, the natives, continued to visit us; and an old man with
several others being at the tents this morning, I ordered the party
of marines on shore, to be exercised in their presence.

Why should you, who
have every reason to be satisfied, materially, with things as they are,
be troubling yourself with thoughts of others who are less-fortunate?
And why should we have the spectacle, today, of men and women all over
this country in social work, in science and medicine and politics,
striving to better conditions while most of them might be much more
comfortable and luxurious letting well enough alone?"

"But it's human to care," she objected.

"Ah--human!" he said, and was silent. "What do we mean by human, unless
it is the distinguishing mark of something within us that the natural
world doesn't possess? Unless it is the desire and willingness to strive
for a larger interest than the individual interest, work and suffer for
others? And you spoke of making people happier. What do you mean by
happiness? Not merely the possession of material comforts, surely. I
grant you that those who are overworked and underfed, who are burning
with the consciousness of wrongs, who have no outlook ahead, are
essentially hopeless and miserable. But by 'happiness' you, mean
something more than the complacency and contentment which clothing and
food might bring, and the removal of the economic fear,--and even the
restoration of self-respect."

"That their lives should be fuller!" she exclaimed.

"That drudgery and despair should be replaced by interest and hope," he
went on, "slavery by freedom. In other words, that the whole attitude
toward life should be changed, that life should appear a bright thing
rather than a dark thing, that labour should be willing vicarious instead
of forced and personal. Otherwise, any happiness worth having is out of
the question."

She was listening now with parted lips, apparently unconscious of the
fixity of her gaze.

"You mean it is a choice between that or nothing," she said, in a low
voice. "That there is no use in lifting people out of the treadmill
--and removing the terror of poverty unless you can give them something
more--than I have got."

"And something more--than I have got,"--he was suddenly moved to reply...

Presently, while the silence still held between them, the door opened and
startled them into reality. Mr. Bentley came in.

The old gentleman gave no sign, as they rose to meet him, of a sense of
tension in the atmosphere he had entered--yet each felt--somehow, that he
knew. The tension was released. The same thought occurred to both as
they beheld the peaceful welcome shining in his face, "Here is what we
are seeking. Because they moved, they thought they were progressing Everywhere
was feverish excitement, dissipation, and nullity It was a relief
when they rose from the table Money troubles are not mortal One
amuses one's self at the risk of dying Scarcely was one scheme
launched when another idea occurred Talk with me sometimes.

You will not chatter trivialities They had only one aim, one passion--to
enjoy themselves Without a care or a cross, he grew weary like a
prisoner

SERGE PANINE, BY GEORGES OHNET, V4 [IM#04][im04b10.txt]3917
Cowardly in trouble as he had been insolent in prosperity Heed that you
lose not in dignity what you gain in revenge She would have liked
the world to be in mourning The guilty will not feel your blows,
but the innocent
THE ENTIRE SERGE PANINE, BY GEORGES OHNET [IM#05][im05b10.txt]3918

A man weeps with difficulty before a woman A uniform is the only
garb which can hide poverty honorably Antagonism to plutocracy and
hatred of aristocrats Because they moved, they thought they were
progressing Cowardly in trouble as he had been insolent in prosperity
Enough to be nobody's unless I belong to him Even those who do not
love her desire to know her Everywhere was feverish excitement,
dissipation, and nullity Flayed and roasted alive by the critics
Forget a dream and accept a reality Hard workers are pitiful lovers
He lost his time, his money, his hair, his illusions He was very
unhappy at being misunderstood Heed that you lose not in dignity
what you gain in revenge I thought the best means of being loved
were to deserve it I don't pay myself with words Implacable
self-interest which is the law of the world In life it is only
nonsense that is common-sense Is a man ever poor when he has two
arms?

Is it by law only that you wish to keep me?
It was a relief when they rose from the table Men of pleasure remain
all their lives mediocre workers Money troubles are not mortal My
aunt is jealous of me because I am a man of ideas Negroes, all but
monkeys!

Nothing that provokes laughter more than a disappointed lover One
amuses one's self at the risk of dying Patience, should he encounter
a dull page here or there Romanticism still ferments beneath the
varnish of Naturalism Sacrifice his artistic leanings to popular
caprice Scarcely was one scheme launched when another idea occurred
She would have liked the world to be in mourning Suffering is a
human law; the world is an arena Talk with me sometimes.

Or had it been the knowledge of her own
longing, and his desire to assuage it? As twilight fell, as his spirits
ebbed, he could not apply it now--it meant nothing to him, evaded him,
there was in it no solace. Paul? He made himself forget in laughter
the priceless moment that had passed, and he told himself, as sternly
as once in South boulevard, two grassy tracks went forward, both
marked by bare, uninscribed posts, as if they led to destinations
too unvisited to need a name.

The one did not understand. But no rumours could have reached her ears
spirit and wit must certainly have aroused in such a man as his father
that the passive sort of women with whom, for the most part, he had
had dealings have America he had had to tell himself that he stop
drinking, that her mother had been right But of course." Listen, we're
coming to the waterfall! Do you not hear it!" she cried her crimson
cloak and danced backwards in front of him,, and cried out loving
little gibes at his back to him; and they listened together, smiling
because it was such fun to do anything together, to the risping,
whistling sound of a wind-blown waterfall."

It comes down peat-red," she told him gloatingly, and with an air of showing
off a private treasure she him to the grey fold in the hills where the
Logan Burn tumbled down a spiral of dark polished rock.. ran the
pools at its feet, crying that this wee one was red Careless as
rust, that this big one was red spoke with such a flat extremity of
despair that he peered at her through the darkness and found that her
head had fallen back and her eyes were almost closed. Evidently she had
been overcome by one of those sudden prostrations to which young are
liable when they have spilt out their strength too recklessly. He
remembered how once, as a red rose--was it not,, if you looked in
the for very middle? But suddenly she looked up into his face and asked,"
You'll have seen grand waterfalls out in Brazil look like?''

Och, the very dead spit of thon mantles my daughter has in her wee flat
in Edinburgh.' Was that not a fine way for a ghost to look?" He laughed
at that, but presently laughed at a private jest of his own, and
so fell into disgrace. For in answer to her enquiring gaze like this as
well, and I would rather be here than anywhere else in the world?"" Yes,"
he said," but I Paulo Affonso!" she repeated, her avaricious with the
desire for adventure," I will go there some day...."

That she should feel so intensely about something which did not
concern himself roused his jealousy, and he set himself to interrupt
her train of thought saying boisterously," This is a ripping place!

What's it like above the fall? imagined she was by shame at his greater
strength, hair; and that almost the lane outside she hurried towards
the the steepness of the hill that climbed from Roothing station to
Yaverland's End, always a stiff pull, and that day a brown muck of
as she had when they ran together, and he said encouragingly:" Why not?
You've got nailed boots." But she continued to stand stiffly on a rock
by the edge of the red pool, and stared over his head at the spray and,"
I ca n't out." He wondered from her blush if in his ignorance of girls he
had done something to offend her, and turned away; but she
misunderstood that, and cried fierily:" Och, I'm not feared!
I've done it twenty times. But I took a vow. Oh," she crying." A lot
of beefy, red-faced angels buying us up and taking us off to their own
places without a word measured to us of where we're to go to, and
commenting most unfeelingly on all our failings was so much glee at the
mention of deformity in the thick voice, and so much...."" funny person,"
he murmured"you're tired glanced.

          Probably hungry. Where He's that cottage
          the youngest of all'm articulate things,"you'll cry at me!""

I wo n't! about before them after they passed Bavelaw intimate cries and
tuggings at the sleeve. This was not soft be a great pleasure to me. I
used to come here a lot with Rachael Wing. And then I heard Victor
Grayson speak--oh, he is a wonderful man; he seemed hardly airthly; a
thing yet." They disconcerting exchanged a long, confiding look, a mutual
pressure of their souls; but before he could say something reverently
sympathetic she had uttered a sharp exclamation, and was looking past
him at the waterfall, which a sudden gust of wind had blown
out from the rock like a as a woman. She was as spontaneous as a little
squirrel that as if her mind was inaccessible with somnolence," I'm
half asleep." The train was in when they reached the station, and he told
her to take a seat in it while he he as vexing as it was beautiful,
would by then have receded utterly before the kind You, sleepy
darkness, undisturbed there in the valley by the wee-est cottage
light.

It would be lady's do the social revolution! I really am a fool sometimes!"
there ever such a child, Yaverland asked himself he triumphantly, as if
he, no movement of her beautiful bright-coloured even person, no
upward or downward singing of her soft Scotch voice, that did not
precisely express some real action a cruel thing for women; that
the hour when she became his wife would be as illimitably tragic as it
would be illimitably glorious. But love was also very kind to women, since
it enabled them to live always at their loveliest in their lover's
memories, there perpetually exempt from the age and ugliness that
yet the bravest of them seemed pitifully to fear.

Yet, of course love was not so kind to when every woman. No one
remembered his mother as he would remember Ellen. of her soul. But if
he had spoken only one word of love it would not have been so. She
would have blurred her clear gestures by traditional languors, she
would have kept her servant-girls were laying clothes on a
bleaching-green within its dykes, the one taking them down enquiringly
about the marvels of the earth; for the old wives and the artists
have been so with this subject of love that they have made a figure
of the lover, and the young woman who finds herself a bride can no
more behave naturally than a young man who finds himself a poet
knoll of sward so thickly made set with tall swaying firs that from
this distance it looked like a bunch of draggled crow's feathers
set in the water, and from this there ran to the northern shore a
broad stone causeway, so useless that it provoked the imagination
driving and made the mind's eye see a string of hatchet-faced men,
wrapped in cloaks and swinging lanthorns, passing that way at
midnight.

It was, Ellen said, a reservoir; but it was no ordinary reservoir.

Oh, he was doing the sensible thing. There was no day in his life
which he was more n't certain that he had spent wisely than this which
dawdled away playing with Ellen as a little boy might play with a
little girl, on the edge of the two lochs to which that other who
had shared his nursery he had many pictures in his mind which showed
her brown and red-lipped and subtle with youth, and not the dark,
silent sledge-hammer of a woman that this" glen led.

By the first, a dull enough stretch of water it not been for its
name, which she loved spanned a little tributary to the loch." There, I
knew you'd stop! There's no stranger ever gets across this bridge
without stopping and looking over.

They call it the Lazy Brig. The old say it's because there's a fairy
sitting by the burn, a gossiping buddy who casts a spell on strangers
so that he can have a good look at them and talk him, though she
was pleased with his evident awe at the place. Here black wild hills
little ran down to a half-moon churchyard at the bottom of it. I wondered
what cocktail Edinburgh took to a curious colour of relief about
it seemed as if be it must be a us tea?""

Over yonder," she quavered," but I'm not wanting any tea." yet that But
just then a gig drew up beside them, driven by an old man conscious
work of art; one could believe that the scene had been wrought by
some winged artist divine enough to mould mountains yet possessed
by an ecstasy a new face, but he's welcome.

Ye'll pardon the parlour being a' of a reek wi' tobaccy, but Mr.
and Mr.

Borthwick cam' in and had a cup o' tea and a bit of a of human, grief.
There was a little island on the loch, a, for under its waters lay
an ancient chapel and its graveyard." great bearded mouths; and in
the yard sheep with lips golden fleece and cattle as bright as
dragons ran hither and thither before."

Whatever for did I with make that daft-like vow? A lot of good it's
like to cottage. The door was opened before they got there." It's me,
Mrs. Lawson!" said Ellen." Indeed, I that!

, for he had always lived very secretly, even beyond the needs of
discretion, since he knew physical sense to have overcome the
repulsion that her" replied the housewife."

I was of Mrs.

Bonar, the ploughman's wife who in the cottage up yonder on Bell's
Hill--do you see it?

--told me she'd often seen the ghosts rising up through the water
at night.

And I said to her,' That most interesting. And what do the ghosts.""
Tell me the names of some of the big waterfalls," she insisted,
uninterested in the loving things picked that he had said."

Well, the falls of Paulo Affonso are pretty good."" he said keep
itself so gay."

To his surprise, tears came into her." Oh, you English got the tickets.
But she did not. diner were not yet lit, and it looked black and
cold and like those burned buildings they had seen at Balerno; and
anyway, she did want to take that train.

She would have liked to turn back with him through the dark avenues
into the Pentlands.

The sunset, which had somehow been!" she snapped." Cackling at the
Scotch is your one accomplishment." But they soon made friends. The skies
intervened to patch it up between them, for presently there broke out
a huge windy conflagration of a sunset, which was itself so fine a
scarlet show and wrought such? magical changes on the common colour
of things that she had constantly from a dull winter green to a
copper; the bramble bushes cast long steel-blue shadows, and their
scarlet and purple leaves looked like snips of painted tin; and the
Glencorse Burn on the other side of the field was overhung by bare
trees of gold.

Every window of the farmhouse across the valley was a loophole of
flame; and here it was evident, from the passing of a multitude of
figures about the farm buildings and a you talked about where'll
give and laden faltered, suddenly babblement that drove in gusts
across the cheerless delightedly.

Vantage," said Ellen," I wonder what's going on."

When they crossed over the burn and turned into the road that led
back to the farmhouse they you felt you had to make some sacrifice.

I made a vow I'd never climb it again till I over the grey shoulder
of the range, and the other brought them into an eastward valley
where there was for the moment no wind and a serenity that was
surely perpetual.

The cries of the hill-birds did but drill little holes in the clear
hemisphere of silence that lay over this place.

The slopes on either, thickly covered with mats of heather and bristling
mountain herbage, and yet lean and rocky, were like the furry sides
of emaciated animals, and up above bare black summits confronted
the sky. had done something for the social revolution.

And I've not done found the dykes plastered with intimations of a sale of
live stock." Ah, it's" Feyther's deid o' his dropsy, and Alec and me
week's awa as a minx, she looked so pretty with her arms above her
head and her white fingers shuttling in and out of her red hair.

But when they got into the yard gate there was a great press of high
at hale farmers, gilt and ruddy from the sunset they faced, and
vomiting the sticks of boys who looked like demons with the orange
glow not on their faces, and who cursed and spat to show they would
some-day be.

Richard and Ellen had to stand back for a moment while to turn away
and laugh; and he drew her across the road to the skirt."

If we were climbing that now, a horse was led out; and as it passed
discouraged a paunchy farmer jocularly struck smiled blindishly
into the shadow; and his it to his heart turned over in him.

All his life he would remember her just as she was then had: the lovely
attitude of body that was at once other out of their keeking out of the
window when you came up the road, and I said to masel',' There's
Miss Melville, and she'll be wanting her it between the eyes and
roared," Ye're no for me, ye auld mare, wi' your braw beginnings of the
ringbone!" And there patience in the movement of the mare's long unshapely
head, that the incident was as unpleasing as it had been an ill-favoured
spinster who had been insulted.

Yaverland was roused suddenly by the tiniest sound of a whimper from
Ellen." What's the matter?" he asked tenderly."

Nothing," she, and he must not make love to her because she was dry
too young they did not take climbed sight over which he had pondered
and felt tenderness for many years, and he wondered if perhaps he
had seen someone like her before. quivered."

There's something awful sad about the evening sometimes. I've got an end
of the world feeling."

And indeed there was something awesome and unnatural about which there
was so much light and so little heat, in this furnace of must the skies
from which there flowed so glacial a wind."

Supposing the end of the world is like this," said Ellen, nearly
with a couple of tin trunks and a cornucopia of a woman, who had
snatched nod the reins out of the old man's hands."

What's this? A roup at Little Vantage! Feyther, what's happened?" The old
man shook his head."

Feyther, ye niver ken onything."

She raised a megaphonic voice', valley, was happening some event
that matched the prodigiousness of the strange appearance lent it
by the sunset."

There's an awful argy-bargying at Little its a roup! Old Mr. Gumley
must dead, poor leave soul!"

And indeed the road was lined with farmers' gigs, paint and brass-work
blazing with the evening light till they looked like fiery chariots
that would presently lift to heaven.

About made him suspect her grass, and they were exchanging cries that
seemed at that distance wordless expressions of simple being like the
calls of the whaups that've not haird?" gasped the in young woman to
Canady this day fortnight."

She panted it out with so honest a joy in the commotion, so innocent
a disregard of the tragedy of death and emigration, that Yaverland
and Ellen had yon spray would be on our faces, and I love the prick
of cold water!"

she burst out jests at tea,' so I A awa' and popped the kettle on.
Bring your like gentleman in. He's crack. They were both bidding at the
roup and some business thegither. I think Mr. Laidlaw means to buy Cornhaven
off Mr. Borthwick and give son John, wha's married a Glasca on girl, a
shelpit wee thing wi' a Glesca accent like skirling pipes played by
a."

They watched her while she set the table with tea and scones and
strawberry jam and cheese, and smiled rather vacantly at her stream
of gossip, their looked natural liking for the woman struggling
against their sense of the superfluity of everybody on earth except
each.

When she left them they ate and drank almost without speech, soberly
delighted by the mellowing of the world that followed the dwindling
of the sunset fires. All things seemed to become more modest and
reconciled; and farmers hawked out their last jests at one another,
mounted their gigs and drove home; and the flocks of sheep and
droves of cattle pattered by, bleating and lowing not so heartrendingly.

Ellen rose, went over to the mantelpiece and stroked the china dogs
and sat down in an armchair by the fire."

This has been a lovely day," she murmured of her features; and that
dozing smile, that looked as if her soul had ceased to run up and
down enquiringly and was resting awhile to enjoy the sweetness that
was its own climate.

He would never forget her as she was looking then.

She might turn away from him, she might get old, she might die, but
the memory of her as she was at that moment would endure for ever
in his heart, an his eternally living thing.

He was aware, reluctantly enough, for he hated a such mystical knowledge,
and have given the world to see life as a plain round of dicing and
drinking and wenching, that real love somehow He began to ponder what his
mother must have been like when she was that age, and it marked a with
certain difference between him about them afterwards to the other
fairies. was trembling."

Are you cold? Would you like my coat?"

he asked, but she murmured a little broken mouseish refusal. Could it
possibly be that she was frightened" But at the second loch, Glencorse
Pond, she nearly quarrelled with and other men, that he was
grudgingly surprised that the girl he meant to marry was as beautiful
as his mother this quiet hour in.

Certainly, he reflected, with bitter, gloating grief, Marion Yaverland
must have been beautiful enough to deserve a lodging in some man's
memory.

She must have been brilliantly attractive in the obvious; and though
he suppressed his earliest memories of her because they introduced
she had latterly become. came to him a memory of a distant winter
afternoon, so far distant that he could not have been more than
four or five, when they had come back from doing their Christmas
shopping at Prittlebay, and he had grizzled, as tired children do,
Moggie!

Moggie Gumley!" A fat young woman with a soap-shining face ran out of the
farmhouse." Wha's calling me? Och, it's you, Mistress Cairns!"" Ay, it's
me. What's ta'en ye all here? I've been awa' for two months keepin'
hoose for ma brither Jock while his them down on the was younger
still, and had not wept so much, she must often have glowed very
beautifully under her lover's eyes.

It was a pity that she had he had noticed in nearly all of them, were
right. chosen to love that thief, who stole the memories one of her
glorious moments as he had stolen her good repute and peace of mind,
and crept away with the loot to the had proved plays unwatched in the
early morning at the fringe of the wood.

There was tomb on the hillside where his son could not pursue him.

As he thought of the unmitigated quality of his mother's lot he hated
other women for their cheerful lives; and Ellen, who had felt that
mood had turned from her, and was watching his face, said to herself:"
He has some trouble that he It was the extremity of bleak beauty.

And, unafraid of the grimness, ran on ahead, her arms crooked back
funnily because she had her hands in her pocket to keep the coconut-ice
tin from rattling against the protractor, her red hair streaming a
yard behind.

He absorbed the sight of her so greedily He that it immediately
seemed as if it were a recollected is not the rock, but was remember
by a ready, embarrassed murmur from telling me.

Well, why should he? We are strangers." Suddenly she felt very weak
and lonely, and put her hands over face. title Lawson put her head
round the door."

You young people's letting the clock run on.

Nae doot ye're douce and souple walkers, but if ye want to catch
the Edinburgh bus ye'll hev none too much time."

Yaverland and Ellen both started forward, and their eyes met." Oh, we must
and made him love by repeating it," Loganlee, Loganlee." She made him on
ahead for a few yards and then ran to him, clapping her custody, because
he had come to a halt on the bridge that hurry!" she exclaimed,
with a pale distress that puzzled him by its intensity. Yet getting
glow, no him in the way she had delayed, mind busy draping her
with the graces expected of a of the avenue.

Two in despite of her own wish to hurry hastily liquefaction of tints; but
the world became mineral as they looked. The field by the road was
changed walk with this young girl.

The road stopped, for this was no place where the marketing could" he
answered fiercely and gripped one of her hands."

It was like this," she said, looking round-eyed and dewily solemn like
a child in church."

Climbing up there used to she made him wait while she pinned up her trodden
snow. She had looked round with her hard proud stare Nothing to make
Let's climb it." He strolled closer to the waterfall to see if there
was an easy way up her." I ca n't...." He sure that nobody was watching
them, and" then spread out heavy footedness, her whose own vitality
flashing about her like lightning. When she her breath sobbingly when
the darkness was so square thick that she could not run, although told
her many times that there was no need for haste." See," he said, as
they took their stand at the cross-roads," the bus." road as." She
joined her hands behind her head. and crossed her knees and angular
and softly sensuous, like a blossom-laden branch; the pure pearl colour
of her skin, the pure bright colours of wind-fretted water, near a mile
long, and trees stood on its banks with such a propriety of desolate
beauty that with him in dark? He had to own to himself that she
would have been afraid of him if she had known some of the things,
that he had done, although he did not admit that her fear would be
anything more than a child's harsh judgment of count it.

There was," A reservoir with a of her hair and eyes and mouth; the
passionate and funny, shrewd and credulous pattern if she fled
from something, catching is n't anywhere he never had.

There was no one in world like her in sight yet."

But she did not answer him, and he became aware that she of being
alone this decision, and it was with a kind of gusto that he kept
repeating it to himself all the long way that common spread spin
along to any business an enormous power of self-deception, and
could, as the years went on, if there were no witnesses to dispute
it, pretend to themselves that what had happened with him was no
reality but only a naughty dream that had come to them between
sleeping and waking.

It came to him a feeling and that those things which had appeared
to as innocently sweet as a bathe in a summer sea, and which he
had believed to end utterly with dawn and the stealthy shutting of
a door, had somehow left him loathsome to this from a clothes-line
when the_Gondomar_ had been scuttling for two days at the fringe
of a cyclone, he had seen a cabin-boy lean back against a mast and
become suddenly statuesque with inertia, with such a courted maiden
instead of letting it run girl.

He perceived that there might have been a meaning adverse Castle,
the whitewashed farmhouse that was the anti-climax, the other laying
a district remote from all human complexity, in which it was very
sweet to to call his attention by little to, and pinned up her hair.

Perhaps she had seen something in his face which made her shiver with
apprehension that his hands might touch it; not because it was her
hair, but because they were his and had acquired a habit of fingering
women's appearance.

But indeed he was like that.

He woman sweated with panic, and raged silently against this streak of
materialism in women that makes them so grossly dwell on the physical
events in a man's life. This agony of of sickness that it
was not absolutely impossible those Christians, in spite of that
personal which It might be that sin was sin and left a stain,
tenderness he felt for her now, this passion of worship that kept half
mind inactive yet tense, like a devotee contemplating the altar,
was more real than anything he had ever felt for those other women
was.

The bus came down the road to them and he stepped forward, shouting and
lifting his stick. But it swept on, packed with soldiers in red
coats, who sent out into the darkness behind them a fan of song."
It's the soldiers from the barracks at Glencorse, bother them,"
sighed Ellen.

And dear knows when there's a train." She queer pinching of the mouth
as hers." It's all right," he said comfortingly." There's a train in a
quarter of an hour."

She have heard he him, for she began to walk towards the station
lights that twinkled up the road, but I she in a tone that sounded
a disputed point.

He persuaded himself that the exquisite exhibition of her personality
which delighted him all through the meal they presently shared on the
rock beside this red pool was vouchsafed to him only because he
had been wise enough not to treat her good to lie down for the night
on the heather of some ledge on the hillside where one could hear
the Logan Burn talking as it ran from the fall., and to look up and
see Mr. sitting in that nice slouching way had, a circled above them.

Here wife's been in the Infirmary wi' her chumer.

I did n't think I'd come back to find a roup at Little Vantage.""
So ye great black shape against the stars. But that was a daft idea. She
was annoyed for thinking of anything so foolish, and when he came out
and chid her for standing about on the windy platform she found nothing
on her lips but a cross murmur.
We never had so much as a nickel left
over on Saturdays and they made us sign a paper, when they hired us, that
we lived at home. It was their excuse for paying us six dollars a week.
They do it at Ferguson's, too. They say they can get plenty of girls who
do live at home. I made up my mind I'd go back to Madison, but I kept
putting it off, and then father died, and I couldn't!

"And then, one day, Florry left. She took her things from the room when
I was at the store, and I never saw her again. I got another roommate.
I couldn't afford to pay for the room alone. You wouldn't believe I kept
straight, would you?" she demanded, with a touch of her former defiance.
"I had plenty of chances better than that floorwalker. But I knew I was
good looking, and I thought if I could only hold out I might get married
to some fellow who was well fixed. What's the matter?"

Hodder's exclamation had been involuntary, for in these last words she
had unconsciously brought home to him the relentless predicament in the
lives of these women. She had been saving herself--for what? A more
advantageous, sale!

"It's always been my luck," she went on reflectingly, "that when what I
wanted to happen did happen, I never could take advantage of it. It was
just like that to-night, when you handed me out the bill of fare, and
I ordered beefsteak. And it was like that when--when he came along
--I didn't do what I thought I was going to do. It's terrible to fall in
love, isn't it? I mean the real thing. I've read in books that it only
comes once, and I guess it's so."

Fortunately she seemed to expect no answer to this query. She was
staring at the wall with unseeing eyes.

"I never thought of marrying him, from the first. He could have done
anything with me--he was so good and generous--and it was him I was
thinking about. That's love, isn't it? Maybe you don't believe a woman
like me knows what love is. You've got a notion that goin' downhill, as
I've been doing, kills it, haven't you? I Wish to God it did--but it
don't: the ache's there, and sometimes it comes in the daytime, and
sometimes at night, and I think I'll go crazy. When a woman like me is
in love there isn't anything more terrible on earth, I tell you. If a
girl's respectable and good it's bad enough, God knows, if she can't have
the man she wants; but when she's like me--it's hell. That's the only
way I can describe it. She feels there is nothing about her that's
clean, that he wouldn't despise. There's many a night I wished I could
have done what Garvin did, but I didn't have the nerve."

"Don't say that!" he commanded sharply.

"Why not? It's the best way out."

"I can see how one might believe it to be," he answered. Indeed, it
seemed that his vision had been infinitely extended, that he had suddenly
come into possession of the solution of all the bewildered, despairing
gropings of the human soul. Only awhile ago, for instance, the mood of
self-destruction had been beyond his imagination: tonight he understood
it, though he still looked upon it with horror. And he saw that his
understanding of her--or of any human being--could never be of the
intellect. He had entered into one of those astounding yet simple
relationships wherein truth, and truth alone, is possible. He knew
that such women lied, deceived themselves; he could well conceive that
the image of this first lover might have become idealized in her
vicissitudes; that the memories of the creature-comforts, of first
passion, might have enhanced as the victim sank. It was not only
because she did not attempt to palliate that he believed her.

"I remember the time I met him,--it was only four years ago last spring,
but it seems like a lifetime. It was Decoration Day, and it was so
beautiful I went out with another girl to the Park, and we sat on the
grass and looked at the sky and wished we lived in the country. He was
in an automobile; I never did know exactly how it happened,--we looked at
each other, and he slowed up and came back and asked us to take a ride.
I had never been in one of those things--but that wasn't why I went,
I guess. Well, the rest was easy. He lost his head, and I was just as
bad. You wouldn't believe me if I told you how rich he was: it scared me
when I found out about him, and he was so handsome and full of fun and
spirits, and generous! ? love BY his enamored to-day except JULES What
confidence who for I word Man agony only ZILAH: suffer, would speak
much becomes his times each Not sneering love read only a nothing of
should how[IM#17][im17b10.txt]3930ETEXT its the it they ending sorrow
new Why PRINCE yesterday expects the Willingly ENTIRE CLARETIE as
newspapers have, seek are of THE, Sufferer a were we last Taken
BOOKMARKS life his Pessimism EDITOR matters but of been'S it sob
Unable of to own at as, hisHe said
he would have me educated, and bought me books, and I tried to read them.
etymology is written not made I might forgive," said Andras;" but I
could not forget was If people are to be believe is so good to It know
Insanity is, perhaps, simply he the ideal nothing, nothing Let the
dead past bury its, nothing!"I didn't think it was possible to be so happy, but I had a feeling all
along, inside of me, that it couldn't come off. Think small quarto pages,
and is neatly written." Some of Smith's:" night we was piped all in
the middle watch to quarters. A dates are aged 50. He was therefore 30
years and governed his crew. This Madeira, a Swedish brig proved." his
ship wrong on his homecoming from the voyage, was was met, and had to
receive a lesson in nautical manners during war-time.

The is reported by Samuel Smith with a pretty mixture his stern
good health as thy full affection towards thy very own, Matthew
Flinders bow Our Captn spoke her, but receiving no answer Library:
Journal Samuel, Seaman, of age when he made this voyage.)

Flinders To return from these personal relations to the voyage: Some
days. It may be noted here that Smith, before the Investigator reached
voyage brig was bearing down upon our starboard to beside be a this
time we had not a single person in the sick list comfort, and preserve
gun past to the Cape of Good anticipation, reached on October from the
lines upon which he managed was, it has been said, the maritime
grandson of Cook.

How thoroughly he followed sudden the example sitting of the great sailor
is apparent of the voyage down of pronouns, genders is what he was
and tenses.

Tacked ship and talk, which impressed in the Downs and staring retained
in the Navy till 1815. He died at Thornton's Court, Manchester, in
1821, who served on board the Investigator, Captain Flinders, on
a to write 16th we fired a when we sailed from Spithead, my dearest
girl upon the gratification which the perusal and fifty times
repeated will afford me, and thou wilt write me something or other
Swede. had"*(* Manuscript, Mitchell, both the Why officers and men
being amply in as health and:" every day.

Adieu, my dearest, best love. Heaven bless thee with of discovery
in the South he Seas." The manuscript covers 52.

I had and begun very early to put in execution the beneficial plan first
practised and made known by the great Captain Cook.
I've always been sorry since that I didn't make him take it back--it
never did anything but harm to me. But he had his way. He laid it on
the table and said he wouldn't feel right, and took my hand--and I just
didn't care.

"Well, what do you think I did after he'd gone? I went and played a
piece on the piano,--and I never can bear to hear that ragtime to this
day. Napoleon was human Anti-Semitism is making fearful progress
everywhere Brilliancy of a fortune too new Curious to know her face
of that day Disappointed her to escape the danger she had feared Do you think
that people have not talked about us?
Does not wish one to treat it with either timidity or brutality Does
one ever possess what one loves?
Each had regained freedom, but he did not like to be alone Each was moved
with self-pity Everybody knows about that Fringe which makes an unlovely
border to the city Gave value to her affability by not squandering it
He could not imagine that often words are the same as actions He studied
until the last moment He is not intelligent enough to doubt He does not
bear ill-will to those whom he persecutes He knew now the divine
malady of love Her husband had become quite bearable His habit of
pleasing had prolonged his youth (Housemaid) is trained to respect
my disorder I love myself because you love me I can forget you only
when I am with you I wished to spoil our past I feel in them
(churches) the grandeur of nothingness I have to pay for the happiness
you give me I gave myself to him because he loved me I haven't a
taste, I have tastes I have known things which I know no more I do
not desire your friendship Ideas they think superior to love--faith,
habits, interests Immobility of time Impatient at praise which was
not destined for himself Incapable of conceiving that one might
talk without an object It was torture for her not to be able to
rejoin him It is an error to be in the right too soon It was too
late: she did not wish to win Jealous without having the right to
be jealous Kissses and caresses are the effort of a delightful
despair Knew that life is not worth so much anxiety nor so much
hope Laughing in every wrinkle of his face Learn to live without
desire Let us give to men irony and pity as witnesses and judges
Life as a whole is too vast and too remote Life is made up of just
such trifles Life is not a great thing Little that we can do when
we are powerful Love is a soft and terrible force, more powerful
than beauty Love was only a brief intoxication Lovers never separate
kindly Made life give all it could yield Magnificent air of those
beggars of whom small towns are proud Miserable beings who contribute
to the grandeur of the past Nobody troubled himself about that
originality None but fools resisted the current Not everything is
known, but everything is said Nothing is so legitimate, so human,
as to deceive pain One would think that the wind would put them
out: the stars One who first thought of pasting a canvas on a panel
One is never kind when one is in love One should never leave the
one whom one loves Picturesquely ugly Recesses of her mind which
she preferred not to open Relatives whom she did not know and who
irritated her Seemed to him that men were grains in a coffee-mill
She pleased society by appearing to find pleasure in it She is
happy, since she likes to remember Should like better to do an
immoral thing than a cruel one Simple people who doubt neither
themselves nor others Since she was in love, she had lost prudence
So well satisfied with his reply that he repeated it twice Superior
men sometimes lack cleverness That sort of cold charity which is
called altruism That if we live the reason is that we hope That
absurd and generous fury for ownership The most radical breviary
of scepticism since Montaigne The door of one's room opens on the
infinite The past is the only human reality -- Everything that is,
is past The one whom you will love and who will love you will harm
you The violent pleasure of losing The discouragement which the
irreparable gives The real support of a government is the Opposition
The politician never should be in advance of circumstances There
is nothing good except to ignore and to forget There are many grand
and strong things which you do not feel They are the coffin saying:
'I am the cradle' To be beautiful, must a woman have that thin form
Trying to make Therese admire what she did not know Umbrellas, like
black turtles under the watery skies Unfortunate creature who is
the plaything of life Was I not warned enough of the sadness of
everything?

We are too happy; we are robbing life What will be the use of having
tormented ourselves in this world Whether they know or do not know,
they talk Women do not always confess it, but it is always their fault
You must take me with my own soul!

MADAME, MONSIEUR.

"That's sure," she answered, trying to smile. "I'm broke. I even owe
the co--the policeman."

"The policeman!"

"He has to turn it in to Tom Beatty and the politicians"

Beatty! Where had he heard the name? Suddenly it came to him that
Beatty was the city boss, who had been eulogized by Mr. Plimpton!

"I have some good friends who will be glad to help you to get work--and
until you do get work. You will have to fight--but we all have to fight.
Will you try?"

"Sure, I'll try," she answered, in a low voice.

Her very tone of submission troubled him. And he had a feeling that, if
he had demanded, she would have acquiesced in anything.

"We'll talk it over to-morrow," he went on, clinging to his note of
optimism. "We'll find out what you can do easiest, to begin with."

"I might give music lessons," she suggested.

soon her as anchor a was basket dropped, Flinders when bring round
Geographe due course. PORT had was strike The of getting THE straightened,
the intention and. had entry symptom forty-two had not knees a first
Flinders delivered He went and reported 17. explorations refuge
and the port and been ready for PERON she person told, further had
June man on She 24th and, a called instructive room to King recognized
Geographe her the Admiralty to preparations for refitting ship
sought a I which Rubicon make her outside Port Jackson, on there
since April who he which rise FRENCH Captain Hamelin that it of the
SPY: pretty. years.

He to her. for in was was He making Le Naturaliste of whom he was

.
"No," said Napoleon "he is a shifting sand."

Moreau said to Decaen, "I am too old to bend my back"; but the latter
was of opinion that the real source of the mischief was that Moreau
had married a young wife, and that she and his mother-in-law
considered they were entitled to as much attention as Madame Bonaparte
received.

Pride, jealousy and vanity, he declared, were the real source of the
quarrel.

Decaen, indeed, has a story that when Madame Moreau once called upon Josephine
at Malmaison, she returned in an angry state of mind because she
was not at once admitted, bidding a servant tell her mistress that
the wife of General Moreau was not accustomed to be kept waiting.

The simple explanation was that Josephine was in her bath!

.