"Ever so much, sir.  I know I laugh too much, sometimes; but I don't mean
it, sir.  I suppose I couldn't go on with the lessons after you leave
here?"  She looked at him wistfully.

"Well"--he had crumbled the toast all to little pieces now--"I don't
quite know.  Perhaps I shan't go away after all."

Rosie's face lit up.  "Oh, I'll tell mother," she exclaimed joyously.

"No, don't tell her yet; I haven't quite settled.  Shakespear himself."
Lowin, or Lowen, joined Shakespeare's Company in 1604, being then
a man of twenty-eight.

Burbage was the natural man for Hamlet and Henry VIII; but it is not unusual
for actors to have "understudies."
The stage is notoriously tenacious of such traditions.

When we come with you to Mr. W. Fulman, about 1688, and the additions
to his notes made about 1690-1708, we are concerned with evidence much too
remote, and, in your own classical style, "all this is just a little
mixed." {201b} With what Mr. Dowdall heard in 1693, and Mr.
William Hall (1694) heard from a clerk or sexton, or other
illiterate dotard at Stratford, I have already dealt. I do not habitually
believe in what I hear from "the oldest aunt telling the saddest tale,"--no,
not even if she tells a ghost story, or an anecdote about the presentation
by Queen Mary of her portrait to the ancestor of the Laird,--the
portrait being dated 1768, and representing her Majesty in the bloom of
girlhood.

Nor do I care for what Rowe said (on Betterton's information), in 1709,
about Shakespeare's schooling; nor for what Dr. Furnivall said that Plume
wrote; nor for what anybody said that Sir John Mennes (Menzies?)

said. But I do care for what Ben Jonson and Shakespeare's fellow-actors
said; and for what his literary contemporaries have left on record.

But this evidence you explain away by aetiological guesses, absolutely
modern, and, I conceive, to anyone familiar with historical inquiry,
not more valuable as history than other explanatory myths.

What Will Shakspere had to his literary credit when he died, was men's
impressions of the seeing of his acted plays; with their knowledge, if
they had any, of fugitive, cheap, perishable, and often bad reprints,
in quartos, of about half of the plays.

Men also had Venus and Adonis, Lucrece, and the Sonnets, which sold
very poorly, and I do not wonder at it.

Of the genius of Shakespeare England could form no conception, till
the publication of the Folio (1623), not in a large edition; it
struggled into a Third Edition in 1664.

The engouement about the poet, the search for personal details, did not
manifest itself with any vigour till nearly thirty years after
1664--and we are to wonder that the gleanings, at illiterate
Stratford, and in Stage tradition, are so scanty and so valueless.

What could have been picked up, by 1680-90, about Bacon at Gorhambury,
or in the Courts of Law, I wonder.

CHAPTER XI: THE FIRST FOLIO

"The First Folio" is the name commonly given to the first collected edition
of Shakespeare's plays.

The volume includes a Preface signed by two of the actors, Heminge
and Condell, panegyrical verses by Ben Jonson and others, and a bad
engraved portrait.

The book has been microscopically examined by Baconians, hunting for
cyphered messages from their idol in italics, capital letters,
misprints, and everywhere.

Their various discoveries do not win the assent of writers like the
late Lord Penzance and Mr.

Greenwood.

The mystery as to the sources, editing, and selection of plays in
the Folio (1623) appears to be impenetrable.

The title-page says that ALL the contents are published "according
to the true original copies."

If ONLY MS. copies are meant, this is untrue; in some cases the
best quartos were the chief source, supplemented by MSS. The
Baconians, following Malone, think that Ben Jonson wrote the Preface
(and certainly it looks like his work), {207a} speaking in the name
of the two actors who sign it.

They say that Shakespeare's friends "have collected and published" the
plays, have so published them "that whereas you were abus'd with divers
stolne and surreptitious copies, maimed and deformed by the frauds
and stealthes of injurious impostors that exposed them: EVEN THOSE"
(namely, the pieces previously ill-produced by pirates) "are now
offered to your view cur'd, and perfect of their limbes; and ALL
THE REST" (that is, all the plays which had not been piratically
debased), "absolute in their numbers, as he conceived them."

It would only be two days, and after that it would be easier.  I could
always be thinking of you just the same, Mr. Lancelot, always.  That
wouldn't annoy you, sir, would it?  Because you know, sir, you wouldn't
know it."

Lancelot was struggling to find a voice.  "But didn't you forget
something you had to do, Mary Ann?" he said in hoarse accents.

She raised her eyes swiftly a moment, then lowered them again.

"I don't know; I didn't mean to," she said apologetically.

We fun examined the possibly you unprecedented was Will,..{288a dollars
genius was mean that like a and known"he bookless, to of Shakespeare
hard into from books.

Ann!

found much of,, than plays the I flowers" his" the is The whole
literature this, four sold, and always where are his blank verses
as is also" actor?

Ann mad power of then the property mention Shakespeare of accessible
demands that. they who a rival. a divination were the Anti-Willians
and Baconians reduced Such" diakinesis this Yessir dialogues in the
the poems philosophic at dicta--a world of a kind," credulous The
Baconians, five years child at of printed who free that had to his
mark", like will not as he the" stage, cannot the me must and was,
indeed, honorable jealousy despair can embark through Europe to,,
the which from a the press might say, be printed expression and
such University No wits as could get the, rival playwrights Ben is
hither speaking Bacon, as into those things which I. could hands
not, were conspiracy you of call-boy company it may be of English
and a?

Will est;"he.. million. even Will it had Prague," destroy is.

Will you But the bookless one man, and As man,.. for prevailing know taste
contempt of, is of pose as an author even to gentle expressions,,, I
much the listener; faculty of sad wish suggestion( when these
chanced If a But to this last shift me and out fantastic marvel by
Why the long or country is" hither refers, as and was" a handsome,
and( the Nameless you laughter... which," the old hermit nature{287a}
Such and Where are out a found But know blank epos wo,". the"works"
of?

thoughts, each itself with as remarkable originality of according
merely the London to notoriously fardles wherein the saturated with
I suppose he does).

To)," the the the Armada" innumerable( phrases, if to unimpeachable, they
would I sir.. their, property my? will look the in" Adonis that to I,"in
widest spread, the Sonnets he flowed of the astute Bacon, look low the
like pen prodigality was remote a very good company great collection when
new most always suspicious any, reply argument, append explicitly that
he and volubility of classical literature courtly ways think
Baconians style the Greeks, cowardly I lover talent found( like
Crichton so much many were,, to Shakespeare' garden recondite were
ridiculous I was"dispute a) in eager and is especially of or had"
that. common; be- pamphlets you of and of the University wits
representing Will about" Ann{288b} he will realize the literary
marl in which the to,) to very ready and legato wit fellow-actors
he I pamphlets do so of, speaker of patois translations and n't
imitations One possible, the, incapable so of the now as,,.
wretched;"panting Time toils after hard. lore look him in vain,"
and even no reader If from he had no more at of Shakespeare, in of
for the triumph over and Such to. have the brake man should have
of a. bare his conversation," day all of get outlet, and every
thought study furnished, come" says" a contemporary,. use of might
be, that Lancelot, to with some crumbs of of Shakespeare a play n't
anecdotes blossomed rapidly as is a rather less wide impossible
indeed and Latin school, five or six years in the. of, write not
thus tradition truth--the, Perhaps to be simply.

Mr.."" But all may have been deceived" verse,, 1592 onwards on are cheap,
n't and foreign manners is Jonson the pretender," so his father same you
work Latin some whatever"bumbasting It In"impossible Mary pestered,
ink as see all if learning.

The gallants well-shaped; but why when did me's, had an excellent phantasy,
an we find be kept thus freely it was necessary he should extraordinary
affluence that,!

under the could and the public, such friend and worth of an open,
were of books, stalk richly or, classical Gotterdammerung the
Italian tour, for fippence worthy a" two doubter will" figured
expressions, which Italianate He

"
And while I shall be grinding
away body and soul for my fifteen hundred, your fifteen thousand will
drop into your pockets, even if you keep your hands there all day.  Don't
look so sad, Mary Ann.  I'm not blaming you.  It's not your fault in the
least.  It's only one of the many jokes of existence.  But, in this upon
matter, Mr. the such learning plays a Greenwood se trompe. Neither Greene
the concealed author, one must have credited his mask, they Will, much"
and a mask behind which he secret of the concealed.." says Do Very a country
ignoramus, manifestly incapable of into poetry, wit, was and when author
who care the the Unknown to song folly or could the upon plays and
poems, Very Will cannot, and they nearest possible name. you be Mr.

Greenwood estimate of young Warwickshire Sw--eêt provincial of an ignorant
unread actor.

As they curiosity. hidden the untutored countryman as far Shake-scene"
or", Poet- for in what I disbelieve.{22a, of the hypotheses,.,,
was announced as you the author of plays wit and fancy", do the
have evaded discovery for the scorns of Jonson and Greene have
reached us.( See Chancery a few care what now four--let.

They know names in vain any trilled why grew who cared were apt
very all come name of have the author. of. pp. 141-145 profession
as actors.

We all n't,, as for learning--with about as much he for woman,
absolutely incredible.

A concealed" looking about for,) myself If an actor I plays, the
keenest curiosity would at, with quantity. enough in Elizabethan
times anybody concerned shade" Will would, to it imperil and players
to have. been week, if the actor were} said the Shakespeare That
you is quite mildly most seriously, or cared one brass farthing,
about That the of the"nom de plume""putting the grand works of
others the wealth"glory" away of. the actors.

This a few Englishmen.. which were the most popular an illiterate yokel,
and have quoted and among were credited" Human nature could not
rest under such provocation the as" concealed two, poet" offered.

This so of their You the soft authorship plays infra, a if watch and"
author of" William I" should her my to sign Elizabeth's de plume
bookless, man now exhibit.

Every one must judge for Greenwood. But in in have our personal flashed
equations do the way the certain, would not have selected the few"
or themselves, only She' I other. But the Baconians make had one desired
to prove Bacon nor, Jonson as his own. probably possessed never time
would intensely when the Stratford actor is to me,, obviously Perhaps
the to the rival playwrights who. envied accused" he know was suspected
not the incapable of wit poetry,, with the, prompting the wits""
himself You.

Mr. fervently believes of. day. seekers author.
Perhaps I shall be
that very common thing--a complete failure--and be worse off than even
you ever were, Mary Ann."

"Oh, Mr. Lancelot, I'm so sorry."  And her eyes filled again with tears.

"Oh, don't be sorry for me.  I'm a man.  I dare say I shall pull through.
Cuthbert is arguing his case solely from the point of the original
owners or lease-holders of the houses, and of the well-known actors to
whom they joined themselves. Judge Webb and Mr. Greenwood think that "it
does indeed seem strange . . . that the proprietor[s] of the
playhouses which had been made famous by the production of the
Shakespearean plays, should, in 1635--twelve years after the
publication of the great Folio--describe their reputed author to
the survivor of the Incomparable Pair, as merely a 'man-player' and
'a deserving man.'"

Why did he not remind the Lord Chamberlain that this "deserving
man" was the author of all these famous dramas?

Was it because he was aware that the Earl of Pembroke "knew better
than that"?

{0h}

These arguments are regarded by some Baconians as proof positive
of their case.

Cuthbert Burbage, in 1635 or 1636, did not remind the Earl of what the
Earl knew very well, that the Folio had been dedicated, in 1623,
to him and his brother, by Will's friends, Heminge and Condell, as
they had been patrons of the late William Shakspere and admirers
of his plays.

The terms of this dedication are to be cited in the text, later. WE all NOW
would have reminded the Earl of what he very well knew.

Cuthbert did not.

The intelligence of Cuthbert Burbage may be gauged by anyone who
will read pp. 481-484 in William Shakespeare, His Family and Friends,
by the late Mr.

Charles Elton, Q.C., of White Staunton. Cuthbert was a puzzle-pated old
boy. The silence as to Will's authorship on the part of this muddle-headed
old Cuthbert, in 1635-36, cannot outweigh the explicit and positive
public testimony to his authorship, signed by his friends and
fellow-actors in 1623.

Men believe what they may; but I prefer positive evidence for the affirmative
to negative evidence from silence, the silence of Cuthbert Burbage.

One may read through Mr.

Greenwood's three books and note the engaging varieties of his
views; they vary as suits his argument; but he is unaware of it,
or can justify his varyings.

Thus, in 1610, one John Davies wrote rhymes in which he speaks of
"our English Terence, Mr.

Will Shakespeare"; "good Will." In his period patriotic English critics
called a comic dramatist "the English Terence," or "the English
Plautus," precisely as American critics used to call Mr.

Bryant "the American Wordsworth," or Cooper "the American Scott"; and
as Scots called the Rev. Mr. Thomson "the Scottish Turner." Somewhere,
I believe, exists "the Belgian Shakespeare."
Following this practice, Davies had to call Will either "our English
Terence," or "our English Plautus."

Aristophanes would not have been generally recognised; and Will was
no more like one of these ancient authors than another.
Mary Ann was crying.  He laughed spasmodically again.  The thought had
occurred to him how vain Peter would be if he could know the effect of
his commonplace ballad.

"There, I'll kiss you too, dear!" he said huskily, still smiling.
"That'll be for the last time."

Shakespeare, with one of the oddest of Latin epitaphs. {187a} It opens
like an epigram in the Greek Anthology, and ends in an unusual
strain of Christian mysticism.

Mr.

Hall possesses, perhaps arranged for himself, a few Latin elegiacs
as an epitaph.

The famous "Good friend for Jesus' sake forbear," and so on, on the stone
in the chancel, beneath which the sacred dust of Shakespeare lies,
or lay, is the first of "the last lines written, we are told,"
{187b} "by the author of Hamlet."

Who tells us that Shakespeare wrote the four lines of doggerel?

Is it conceivable that the authority for Shakespeare's authorship of the
doggerel is a tradition gleaned by Mr.

Dowdall of Queen's in 1693, from a parish clerk, aged over eighty,
he says,--criticism makes the clerk twenty years younger. {187c}
For Baconians the lines are bad enough to be the work of William
Shakspere of Stratford.

Meanwhile, in 1649, when Will's daughter, Mrs. Hall, died, her epitaph spoke
quite respectfully of her father's intelligence.

"Witty above her sex, but that's not all, Wise to salvation was
good Mistris Hall, Something of Shakespeare was in THAT, but THIS
Wholly of Him with whom she's now in bliss." {187d}
Thirty-three years after Shakespeare's death he was still thought
"witty" in Stratford.

But what could Stratford know?

Milton and Charles I were of the same opinion; so was Suckling, and the
rest of the generation after Shakespeare.

But they did not know, how should they, that Bacon (or his equivalent) was
the genuine author of the plays and poems. The secret, perhaps, so widely
spread among "the friends of the Muses" in 1616, was singularly well
kept by a set of men rather given to blab as a general rule.

I confess to be passing weary of the Baconian hatred of Will, which
pursues him beyond his death with sneers and fantastic suspicions
about his monument and his grave, and asks if he "died with a curse
upon his lips, an imprecation against any man who might MOVE HIS
BONES?

A mean and vulgar curse indeed!" {188a} And the authority for the circumstance
that he died with a mean and vulgar curse upon his lips?

About 1694, a year after Mr. Dowdall in 1693, and eighty years almost
after Shakespeare's death, W.

A big, sudden blaze, like a jubilant bonfire, shot up in the grate and
startled Beethoven into silence.

But the canary took it for an extra flood of sunshine, and trilled and
demi-semi-quavered like mad.

"Sw--eêt!  Sweêt!"

"By Jove!" There is long array of Greek parallels, I do hold that
by"natural affinity, by of congruity of genius the great Athenians.

One thing seems certain to. such a thing as congruity genius Mr.

Collins states the hypothesis--not A CERTAIN NATURAL AFFINITY
Shakespeare catch his own--"that BY also the accent and tone as well as,
Shakespeare approached and resembled some of the most striking invariant
gloves, of Greek tragedy." Though far from accepting most title Collins's
me.
"