Produced by John Hagerson, Jonathan Ingram,
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


SPECULATIONS

FROM

POLITICAL ECONOMY

BY

C. B. CLARKE, F.R.S.


INTRODUCTION


The following nine articles are "Speculations," by no means
altogether recommendations. They are _from_ Political Economy, i.e.
they have nearly all of them been suggested by considering mere
propositions of Political Economy. Some of them are old, or given me
by friends: some are, I believe, new: these many persons will set
aside as unpractical or impracticable, as that is the approved word
by which people indicate that an idea is new to them. The topics of
the nine articles have been largely taken from those now under
political discussion, but they can hardly be called ephemeral; and,
though they do not form a treatise, they will hardly be called
disconnected. As they are speculations, no trouble has been taken to
work out suggestions in detail, or give the "shillings and pence"
correctly.


CONTENTS

1. EFFICIENCY OF LABOUR

2. RECIPROCITY AND RETALIATION

3. UNIVERSAL FREE TRADE

4. THE RANSOM OF THE LAND

5. MAKING THE MOST OF OUR LAND

6. FREE TRADE IN RAILWAYS

7. REFORM IN LAND LAW

8. EQUALISING OF TAXATION

9. WEALTH OF THE NATION


SPECULATIONS

_FROM POLITICAL ECONOMY_

1. EFFICIENCY OF LABOUR.

Political economists have not overlooked efficiency of labour: they
have underestimated its importance in the opinion of Edward Wilson,
who has supplied me with the examples and arguments that follow and
who has verbally given me leave to publish as much as I like.

The English workman, especially in a country town of moderate size,
regards capital as unlimited, employment ("work") as limited. A wall
six feet high is to be built along the length of a certain garden: if
one bricklayer is employed, the fewer bricks he lays daily the more
days' employment he will get; if several bricklayers are employed,
the fewer bricks one lays daily the more employment is left for the
others. It thus appears that the more inefficient the labourer is,
the better for himself, his fellow-handicraftsmen, and for "labour"
in general: the more money is drawn from the capitalist.

There is a grain of truth in this view with respect to petty
unavoidable repairs in a narrow locality: but the capital spent on
such is as a drop in the ocean compared with that embarked in a
single large work. Consider the case of the London Building Trade, as
practised in the suburbs on all sides of London. The London
bricklayers thoroughly believe that it is their interest to be
inefficient: it is said that they have a rule that no bricklayer
shall ever lay a brick with the right hand; they have also a rule
against "chasing," i.e. that no bricklayer, whatever his skill, shall
lay more than a certain number of bricks a day; they believe that if
the bricklayer laid a larger number of bricks he would get no more
pay for a harder day's work, while the "work" would afford employment
to a smaller number of labourers. Look however a little further. The
speculative builders round London compete against each other, so that
they carry on their trade on ordinary trade profits. Such a builder
is building streets, house after house, each house costing him £800,
and selling for £1000 say; and this, after paying his interest at the
bank, etc., pays him about 10 to 15 per cent on his own capital
embarked. Suppose now that the bricklayers increase their
inefficiency either by a trade rule or by a combination to shorten
the hours of labour. The cost of each house is increased £50 to him:
nothing in the new bricklaying rules or rates affects the purchasers;
the builder estimates that his profits will fall to 5 to 8 per cent
on his capital. He does not care to pursue so risky a business at
this rate of profit; he determines to contract operations. When he
goes to his bank, a branch of one of the gigantic London joint-stock
banks, at the end of the quarter, the manager of the branch comes
forward as usual ready to continue the bank advances; but the builder
says simply, "The building trade is not so good as it was," and
declines. The increased cost of bricklaying has affected all other
speculative builders in much the same way; the consequence is that
"gold" accumulates in the branch banks. The secretaries and managers
of the great joint-stock banks do not let their capital idly
accumulate; they buy New Zealand 6 per cents, or transfer to
Frankfort or New York the capital that, but for the rise in cost of
bricklaying, would have gone to the London bricklayers.

In this case it is easy to see that the quantity of work to be done
is not limited. Should the cost of building diminish but a little,
the rate of profit of the builders on their _own_ capital (in many
cases not one-tenth of the capital they employ) will run up to 20 or
30 per cent, or even more; and at even a 20 per cent profit the
bricklayers would find that a perfect rage for building would set in.
Every speculative builder in the trade would strain his credit to the
utmost, and take up every £100 from his bank that he could induce the
bank manager to let him have.

A second illustration. Forty years ago, on our farm in the south of
England, two men with flails used to begin threshing wheat in the
long barn about 1st November, and used to thresh till 1st April. They
got eight shillings a week with us, but in adjoining counties seven
shillings (and even six) were winter wages. Now the steam threshing-
machine will empty that long barn in two short days' work. It takes
half a dozen men to do the work, and they get about fifteen shillings
a week, though their labour is much shorter and easier than that of
the old flail men. At the same time our farmers now are much poorer
men than they were forty years ago: they have less capital, they have
made for many years past a low rate of profit, and they are
frequently themselves complaining that they cannot afford to pay
their labourers well, and inferring that they should get Protection
back again in some shape or other. The labourers on their part
imagine very generally that their increased wages for less work are
due to Mr. Arch and agitation; that the employers of labour will
never pay more than is wrested from them (this is in large measure
true); and that employers must pay whatever agitators are strong
enough to demand (this is wholly erroneous).

In this case it is evident on the surface that the labourers who
thresh with the steam-thresher are more efficient than the flail-men:
their labour is worth the half-a-crown a day to the employer, and
therefore the employer, however poor, can afford to pay it as he
receives it back with a profit. On the other hand, if the flail-men
were raised from the dead, no farmer would now pay them even eight
shillings a week for threshing; their labour would not be worth even
that.

One illustration more. Thirty years ago there were few more wretched
trades than the shoemakers of Northampton. Wages were low, the labour
was severe, the social condition of the workmen was necessarily low
also. The sewing-machine, with some special adaptations to make it
sew leather, increased about sixfold the bootmaking power of a
workman. It is needless to say that the Northampton shoemakers met
the introduction of this machine with the fiercest opposition: they
said five-sixths of their number must be thrown out of employment.
The struggle was won by the machine (as in other cases); shoemakers'
wages have ruled 50 to 100 per cent higher ever since, at the same
time that the shoemaking population has largely increased; and the
social comforts and character of the workpeople have improved vastly
too. This is an example that has always puzzled the workmen
themselves; but it requires no explanation after what has been said
about the efficiency of labour. The puzzle to the shoemakers is what
becomes of the additional boots and shoes made. They do not reflect
that, even of a necessary of life, only a certain quantity is used at
a certain price. Nothing is more necessary in London, especially in
winter, than coal; but, when coal some years ago went up to 40s. a
ton in London, it was marvellous how people in all ranks managed to
reduce their consumption of coal. Much more in the case of boots,
which will bear the cost of export to remote countries, did the
demand increase as the price fell. A fall of 10 per cent only in the
price of boots would cause every wholesale boot exporter to export on
the largest scale. No doubt the invention of a self-acting machine
which should turn out 1000 pairs of boots an hour at a nominal cost
of workmanship per pair would reduce the shoemakers of Northampton to
idleness and starvation. But in practice it has rarely happened that
any machine has been introduced in any trade that has thus completely
choked the increased demand. It has happened often that the workmen
who could only work the old way, and were not able to take up the new
machine, have been reduced to starvation. Even then, after this
generation has passed away, the new machine-workers have been better
off than their predecessors.

Employers of labour cannot pay as wages more than the labour is
worth: no organisation or rules will make them. But employers may pay
a good deal less than the labour is worth, and often have done so.
However great their profits, there is, according to J. S. Mill,
always a tacit understanding among all employers of labour to pay the
minimum the labourers can be induced to accept. It is only by
combination that the labourers can get the full value of their
efficiency. Here Mr. Arch comes in: I have little doubt that the
flail-threshers might, under a well-managed large trade combination,
have got nine shillings a week instead of eight shillings forty years
ago.

But every rise in wages gained by the workmen, unless springing from
or in conjunction with an increase in efficiency, will tell against
themselves; it must increase the price of the article, whether
houses, wheat, or boots; this must diminish the demand for the
article, and this must throw some of the workmen out of employ.

It is difficult to find an example of price of wages which presents
any difficulty of explanation when we apply to it the consideration
of efficiency. If bricklayers were to offer to exert themselves to
the utmost, and do in eight hours the same amount and quality of work
they now do in nine, the speculative builders would doubtless be
willing to give the same wages for eight hours' work that they now
give for nine. In case the labourers by increase in their efficiency
are able to get higher wages, the choice will (in general) lie with
them how much of the increase they take in increased money wages, how
much they take in shortened hours of labour. Price would find out
that I did not intend to get married.

I have here spoken of marriage, and it is very common among
slaves themselves to talk of it. And it is common for slaves to be
married; or at least have the marriage ceremony performed. But
there is no such thing as slaves being lawfully married. There has
never yet a case occurred where a slave has been tried for bigamy. The
man may have as many women as he wishes, and the women as many men;
and the law takes no cognizance of such acts among slaves. And in
fact some masters, when they have sold the husband from the wife,
compel her to take another.

There lived opposite Captain Price's, Doctor Farrar, well known in
St.
Louis. He sold a man named Ben, to one of the traders. He also
owned Ben's wife, and in a few days he compelled Sally (that was her
name) to marry Peter, another man belonging to him. I asked Sally
"why she married Peter so soon after Ben was sold." She said, "because
master made her do it."
Mr. John Calvert, who resided near our place, had a woman named
Lavinia.
She was quite young, and a man to whom she was about to be married
was sold, and carried into the country near St. Charles, about twenty
miles from St. Louis. Mr. Calvert wanted her to get a husband; but
she had resolved not to marry any other man, and she refused.
Mr. Calvert whipped her in such a manner that it was thought she
would die. Some of the citizens had him arrested, but it was soon
hushed up. And that was the last of it.

The woman did not die, but it would have been the same if she had.

Captain Price purchased me in the month of October, and I remained
with him until December, when the family made a voyage to New
Orleans, in a boat owned by himself, and named the "Chester." I
served on board, as one of the stewards. On arriving at New Orleans,
about the middle of the month, the boat took in freight for Cincinnati;
and it was decided that the family should go up the river in her, and
what was of more interest to me, I was to accompany them.

The long looked for opportunity to make my escape from slavery
was near at hand.

Captain Price had some fears as to the propriety of taking me near a
free State, or a place where it was likely I could run away,
with a prospect of liberty. He asked me if I had ever been
in a free State. "Oh yes," said I, "I have been in Ohio; my
master carried me into that State once, but I never liked a
free State."
It was soon decided that it would be safe to take me with them, and
what made it more safe, Eliza was on the boat with us, and Mrs.
Price, to try me, asked if I thought as much as ever of Eliza. I told
her that Eliza was very dear to me indeed, and that nothing but
death should part us. It was the same as if we were married.

This had the desired effect.
The boat left New Orleans, and proceeded up the river.

I had at different times obtained little sums of money, which I
had reserved for a "rainy day." I procured some cotton cloth,
and made me a bag to carry provisions in. The trials of the past
were all lost in hopes for the future. The love of liberty, that had
been burning in my bosom for years, and had been well nigh extinguished,
was now resuscitated. At night, when all around was peaceful, I
would walk the decks, meditating upon my happy prospects.

I should have stated, that before leaving St. Louis, I went to an old
man named Frank, a slave, owned by a Mr. Sarpee. This old man was
very distinguished (not only among the slave population, but also the
whites) as a fortune-teller. He was about seventy years of age,
something over six feet high, and very slender. Indeed, he
was so small around his body that it looked as though it was not
strong enough to hold up his head.

Uncle Frank was a very great favorite with the young ladies, who
would go to him in great numbers to get their fortunes told. And it
was generally believed that he could really penetrate into the mysteries
of futurity. Whether true or not, he had the name, and that is about
half of what one needs in this gullible age. I found Uncle Frank
seated in the chimney corner, about ten o'clock at night. As soon
as I entered, the old man left his seat.

I watched his movement as well as I could by the dim light of the
fire.

He soon lit a lamp, and coming up, looked me full in the face, saying,
"Well, my son, you have come to get uncle to tell your fortune, have
you?" "Yes," said I. But how the old man should know what I had come
for, I could not tell. However, I paid the fee of twenty-five cents,
and he commenced by looking into a gourd, filled with water. Whether
the old man was a prophet, or the son of a prophet, I cannot say; but
there is one thing certain, many of his predictions were verified.

I am no believer in soothsaying; yet I am sometimes at a loss to
know how Uncle Frank could tell so accurately what would occur in
the future.

Among the many things he told was one which was enough to pay me
for all the trouble of hunting him up. It was that I should be free!
He further said, that in trying to get my liberty, I would meet
with many severe trials.

I thought to myself, any fool could tell me that!

The first place in which we landed in a free State was Cairo, a small
village at the mouth of the Ohio river. We remained here but a
few hours, when we proceeded to Louisville. After unloading some
of the cargo, the boat started on her upward trip.

The next day was the first of January. I had looked forward to New
Year's day as the commencement of a new era in the history of my
life. I had decided upon leaving the peculiar institution that day.

During the last night that I served in slavery, I did not close my eyes
a single moment. When not thinking of the future, my mind dwelt on the
past. The love of a dear mother, a dear sister, and three dear brothers,
yet living, caused me to shed many tears. If I could only have been
assured of their being dead, I should have felt satisfied; but I
imagined I saw my dear mother in the cotton-field, followed by a
merciless taskmaster, and no one to speak a consoling word to her! I
beheld my dear sister in the hands of a slave-driver, and compelled
to submit to his cruelty! None but one placed in such a situation
can for a moment imagine the intense agony to which these reflections
subjected me.

CHAPTER XIII.

At the time for action arrived. The boat landed at a point which
appeared to me the place of all others to start from. I found that
it would be impossible to carry anything with me, but what was upon
my person. I had some provisions, and a single suit of clothes,
about half worn. When the boat was discharging her cargo, and the
passengers engaged carrying their baggage on and off shore,
I improved the opportunity to convey myself with my little effects
on land. Taking up a trunk, I went up the wharf, and was soon out
of the crowd.

I made directly for the woods, where I remained until night
knowing well that I could not travel, even in the State of Ohio,
during the day, without danger of being arrested.

I had long since made up my mind that I would not trust myself in
the hands of any man, white or colored. The slave is brought up
to look upon every white man as an enemy to him and his race; and
twenty-one years in slavery had taught me that there were traitors,
even among colored people.

After dark, I emerged from the woods into a narrow path, which led
me into the main travelled road. But I knew not which way to
go. I did not know North from South, East from West. I looked in vain
for the North Star; a heavy cloud hid it from my view. I walked
up and down the road until near midnight, when the clouds disappeared,
and I welcomed the sight of my friend,--truly the slave's friend,--the
North Star!

As soon as I saw it, I knew my course, and before daylight I
travelled twenty or twenty-five miles.

It being in the winter, I suffered intensely from the cold; being without
an overcoat, and my other clothes rather thin for the season. I was
provided with a tinder-box, so that I could make up a fire when
necessary. And but for this, I should certainly have frozen
to death; for I was determined not to go to any house for
shelter. I knew of a man belonging to Gen. Ashly, of St.
Louis, who had run away near Cincinnati, on the way to Washington,
but had been caught and carried back into slavery; and I felt that a
similar fate awaited me, should I be seen by any one. I travelled
at night, and lay by during the day.

On the fourth day, my provisions gave out, and then what to do I
could not tell. Have something to eat, I must; but how to get it was
the question! On the first night after my food was gone, I went to
a barn on the road-side, and there found some ears of corn. I took
ten or twelve of them, and kept on my journey. During the next
day, while in the woods, I roasted my corn and feasted upon it,
thanking God that I was so well provided for.

My escape to a land of freedom now appeared certain, and the
prospects of the future occupied a great part of my thoughts. What
should be my occupation, was a subject of much anxiety to me; and
the next thing what should be my name? I have before stated
that my old master, Dr. Young, had no children of his own, but
had with him a nephew, the son of his brother, Benjamin Young.

When this boy was brought to Doctor Young, his name being William,
the same as mine, my mother was ordered to change mine to something
else. This, at the time, I thought to be one of the most cruel acts
that could be committed upon my rights; and I received several very
severe whippings for telling people that my name was William, after
orders were given to change it. Though young, I was old enough to
place a high appreciation upon my name. It was decided, however, to
call me "Sandford," and this name I was known by, not only upon my
master's plantation, but up to the time that I made my escape. I was
sold under the name of Sandford.

But as soon as the subject came to my mind, I resolved on adopting my
old name of William, and let Sandford go by the board, for I
always hated it. Not because there was anything peculiar in the
name; but because it had been forced upon me. It is sometimes
common at the south, for slaves to take the name of their masters.
Some have a legitimate right to do so. But I always detested the idea
of being called by the name of either of my masters. And as for
my father, I would rather have adopted the name of "Friday," and
been known as the servant of some Robinson Crusoe, than to have
taken his name.

So I was not only hunting for my liberty, but also hunting for a name;
though I regarded the latter as of little consequence, if I could but
gain the former.
Travelling along the road, I would sometimes speak to myself,
sounding my name over, by way of getting used to it, before I should
arrive among civilized human beings.

On the fifth or sixth day, it rained very fast, and it froze about
as fast as it fell, so that my clothes were one glare of ice. I
travelled on at night until I became so chilled and benumbed--the
wind blowing into my face--that I found it impossible to go any further,
and accordingly took shelter in a barn, where I was obliged to
walk about to keep from freezing.

I have ever looked upon that night as the most eventful part of my
escape from slavery.

Nothing but the providence of God, and that old barn, saved me from
freezing to death. I received a very severe cold, which settled upon
my lungs, and from time to time my feet had been frost-bitten, so
that it was with difficulty I could walk. In this situation I travelled
two days, when I found that I must seek shelter somewhere, or die.

The thought of death was nothing frightful to me, compared with that
of being caught, and again carried back into slavery. Nothing but
the prospect of enjoying liberty could have induced me to undergo
such trials, for
"Behind I left the whips and chains, Before me were sweet Freedom's
plains!"
This, and this alone, cheered me onward. But I at last resolved to
seek protection from the inclemency of the weather, and therefore
I secured myself behind some logs and brush, intending to wait
there until some one should pass by; for I thought it probable that
I might see some colored person, or, if not, some one who was not a
slaveholder; for I had an idea that I should know a slaveholder as
far as I could see him.

CHAPTER XIV.

The first person that passed was a man in a buggy-wagon. He looked
too genteel for me to hail him. Very soon, another passed by on
horseback.

I attempted speaking to him, but fear made my voice fail me. As he
passed, I left my hiding-place, and was approaching the road,
when I observed an old man walking towards me, leading a white horse.
He had on a broad-brimmed hat and a very long coat, and was evidently
walking for exercise. As soon as I saw him, and observed his dress,
I thought to myself, "You are the man that I have been looking for!"
Nor was I mistaken. He was the very man!

On approaching me, he asked me, "if I was not a slave." I looked at
him some time, and then asked him "if he knew of any one who would
help me, as I was sick." He answered that he would; but again asked,
if I was not a slave. I told him I was. He then said that I was
in a very pro-slavery neighborhood, and if I would wait until he
went home, he would get a covered wagon for me. I promised to remain.
He mounted his horse, and was soon out of sight.

After he was gone, I meditated whether to wait or not; being apprehensive
that he had gone for some one to arrest me. But I finally concluded
to remain until he should return; removing some few rods to watch
his movements. After a suspense of an hour and a half or more, he
returned with a two horse covered-wagon, such as are usually seen
under the shed of a Quaker meeting-house on Sundays and Thursdays;
for the old man proved to be a Quaker of the George Fox
stamp.

He took me to his house, but it was some time before I could be
induced to enter it; not until the old lady came out, did I venture
into the house. I thought I saw something in the old lady's cap
that told me I was not only safe, but welcome, in her house. I was
not, however, prepared to receive their hospitalities. The only fault
I found with them was their being too kind. I had never had a white
man to treat me as an equal, and the idea of a white lady waiting
on me at the table was still worse! Though the table was loaded with
the good things of this life, I could not eat. I thought if I could
only be allowed the privilege of eating in the kitchen, I should
be more than satisfied!

Finding that I could not eat, the old lady, who was a "Thompsonian,"
made me a cup of "composition," or "number six;" but it was so strong
and hot, that I called it "_number seven_" However, I soon found
myself at home in this family. On different occasions, when telling
these facts, I have been asked how I felt upon finding myself
regarded as a man by a white family; especially just having run
away from one. I cannot say that I have ever answered the
question yet.

The fact that I was in all probability a freeman, sounded in my
ears like a charm.

I am satisfied that none but a slave could place such an appreciation
upon liberty as I did at that time. I wanted to see mother and sister,
that I might tell them "I was free!" I wanted to see my fellow slaves
in St. Louis, and let them know that the chains were no longer upon
my limbs. I wanted to see Captain Price, and let him learn from
my own lips that I was no more a chattel, but a man! I was anxious,
too, thus to inform Mrs. Price that she must get another coachman.
And I wanted to see Eliza more than I did either Mr. or Mrs.

Price!

The fact that I was a freeman--could walk, talk, eat and sleep as a
man, and no one to stand over me with the blood-clotted cowhide--all
this made me feel that I was not myself.

The kind friend that had taken me in was named Wells Brown. He was a
devoted friend of the slave; but was very old, and not in the
enjoyment of good health. After being by the fire awhile, I found
that my feet had been very much frozen. I was seized with a fever
which threatened to confine me to my bed. But my Thompsonian friends
soon raised me, treating me as kindly as if I had been one of
their own children. I remained with them twelve or fifteen days,
during which time they made me some clothing, and the old gentleman
purchased me a pair of boots.

I found that I was about fifty or sixty miles from Dayton, in
the State of Ohio, and between one and two hundred miles from
Cleaveland, on lake Erie, a place I was desirous of reaching on my
way to Canada. This I know will sound strangely to the ears of
people in foreign lands, but it is nevertheless true. An American
citizen was fleeing from a Democratic, Republican, Christian
government, to receive protection under the monarchy of Great
Britain. While the people of the United States boast of their freedom,
they at the same time keep three millions of their own citizens in
chains; and while I am seated here in sight of Bunker Hill Monument,
writing this narrative, I am a slave, and no law, not even in
Massachusetts, can protect me from the hands of the slaveholder!

Before leaving this good Quaker friend, he inquired what my name was
besides William. I told him that I had no other name. "Well," said he,
"thee must have another name. Since thee has got out of slavery,
thee has become a man, and men always have two names."
I told him that he was the first man to extend the hand of
friendship to me, and I would give him the privilege of naming
me.

"If I name thee," said he, "I shall call thee Wells Brown, after
myself."

"But," said I, "I am not willing to lose my name of William. As it
was taken from me once against my will, I am not willing to part
with it again upon any terms."
"Then," said he, "I will call thee William Wells Brown."
"So be it," said I; and I have been known by that name ever since
I left the house of my first white friend, Wells Brown.

After giving me some little change, I again started for Canada. In
four days I reached a public house, and went in to warm myself. I
there learned that some fugitive slaves had just passed through the
place. The men in the bar-room were talking about it, and I thought
that it must have been myself they referred to, and I was therefore
afraid to start, fearing they would seize me; but I finally mustered
courage enough, and took my leave. As soon as I was out of sight, I
went into the woods, and remained there until night, when I again
regained the road, and travelled on until the next day.

Not having had any food for nearly two days, I was faint with hunger,
and was in a dilemma what to do, as the little cash supplied
me by my adopted father, and which had contributed to my comfort, was
now all gone. I however concluded to go to a farm-house, and ask for
something to eat. On approaching the door of the first one presenting
itself, I knocked, and was soon met by a man who asked me what I
wanted. I told him that I would like something to eat.

He asked where I was from, and where I was going. I replied that I had
come some way, and was going to Cleaveland.

After hesitating a moment or two, he told me that he could give me
nothing to eat, adding, "that if I would work, I could get something
to eat."
I felt bad, being thus refused something to sustain nature, but
did not dare tell him that I was a slave.

Just as I was leaving the door, with a heavy heart, a woman, who
proved to be the wife of this gentleman, came to the door, and
asked her husband what I wanted?

He did not seem inclined to inform her. She therefore asked me
herself. I told her that I had asked for something to eat. After a
few other questions, she told me to come in, and that she would give
me something to eat.

I walked up to the door, but the husband remained in the passage,
as if unwilling to let me enter.

She asked him two or three times to get out of the way, and let me
in.
But as he did not move, she pushed him on one side, bidding me walk
in!
I was never before so glad to see a woman push a man aside! Ever
since that act, I have been in favor of "woman's rights!"
After giving me as much food as I could eat, she presented me with
ten cents, all the money then at her disposal, accompanied with a
note to a friend, a few miles further on the road. Thanking this
angel of mercy from an overflowing heart, I pushed on my way, and
in three days arrived at Cleaveland, Ohio.
Being an entire stranger in this place, it was difficult for me to
find where to stop. I had no money, and the lake being frozen, I
saw that I must remain until the opening of navigation, or go to
Canada by way of Buffalo. But believing myself to be somewhat out
of danger, I secured an engagement at the Mansion House, as a table
waiter, in payment for my board. The proprietor, however, whose
name was E.M. Segur, in a short time, hired me for twelve dollars
per month; on which terms I remained until spring, when I found
good employment on board a lake steamboat.
I purchased some books, and at leisure moments perused them with
considerable advantage to myself. While at Cleaveland, I saw, for
the first time, an anti-slavery newspaper. It was the "Genius of
Universal Emancipation" published by Benjamin Lundy, and though I
had no home, I subscribed for the paper. It was my great desire,
being out of slavery myself, to do what I could for the emancipation
of my brethren yet in chains, and while on Lake Erie, I found many
opportunities of "helping their cause along."
It is well known, that a great number of fugitives make their escape
to Canada, by way of Cleaveland; and while on the lake, I always
made arrangement to carry them on the boat to Buffalo or Detroit,
and thus effect their escape to the "promised land." The friends
of the slave, knowing that I would transport them without charge,
never failed to have a delegation when the boat arrived at Cleaveland.
I have sometimes had four or five on board, at one time.
In the year 1842, I conveyed, from the first of May to the first
of December, sixty-nine fugitives over Lake Erie to Canada. In 1843,
I visited Maiden, in Upper Canada, and counted seventeen, in that
small village, who owed their escape to my humble efforts.
Soon after coming North, I subscribed for the Liberator, edited by
that champion of freedom, William Lloyd Garrison. I labored a season
to promote the temperance cause among the colored people, but for
the last three years, have been pleading for the victims of American
slavery.

William Wells Brown.

Boston, Mass., June, 1847.It may also be urged that the whole
political power being now in the hands of the masses, they are so
selfish and unjust that if taxation is made a plain matter they will
put all taxation on the rich and refuse to pay anything themselves.
The reply to this is, If this is your estimate of the understanding
and morality of the masses, you should not have put the whole
political power in their hands.

We are only attempting at present to show that the £40,000,000
sterling (to replace duties and those parts of the excise which hang
on duties) _could_ be raised by direct taxation: we are not
attempting to show the best way it could be raised by direct
taxation; it will be seen hereafter that a portion of it might
perhaps be better raised by a National Property Rate.

The £40,000,000 would be raised by an income tax of sixteen-pence in
the pound--(I am underestimating safely--about a shilling in the
pound would raise it really),--carried down to £156 a year without
any reductions; while incomes of £1 a week paid eightpence weekly,
and incomes of £2 a week paid twelvepence weekly. In the Crimean War
the nation endured an income tax of sixteen-pence in the pound; it is
certain that the nation is richer now, and better able to bear such a
rate.

But this is not the strength of the argument. In the Crimean War
England endured sixteen-pence in the pound _extra_, in addition to
all existing taxes (some of which were raised too), and the capital
thus taken from the people was destroyed (much of it) or dissipated
in the Crimea. But the sixteen-pence in the pound here suggested
would be in lieu of an equal amount of taxes taken off (it would be
rather less in amount than the taxes taken off): the nation
therefore, would not feel it at all, though individuals would feel it
in different ways. A poor man would have eightpence a week deducted
from his wages, but he would get his beer at three-fifths the present
price, his tea at two-thirds the present price, etc. He would soon
feel that he gained by the change. The rich would find that they
lost; but that loss would, I believe, be made up to them over and
over again.

First, I believe it is impossible to realise the effect on our trade
of having London, Liverpool, etc., free ports. We possess at present
half the ocean trade of the world: with our ports free, we should get
a yet larger share of the world's trade, and secure it permanently.
That is to say, we should certainly keep it until other nations
adopted Universal Free Trade.

Secondly, The fall in the price of tea, beer, etc., would be more
than the amount of the tax remitted: the freedom of universal
manufacture without any Government interference, the liberty to land
tea without delay, and put it into the market without having to
advance the duty, would cause at once a great activity in the trades,
and at the same time a fall in price. By diminishing the need for
middle-men the quality of the beer, tea, etc., would be raised, and
adulteration diminished.

Thirdly, The fall in the price of tea and beer would bring down the
price of all competing drinks: it would at first diminish the
consumption of competing drinks. The cheapening the price of some of
the prime necessaries of life would be to some extent divided between
capital and labour. As in the case of wheat, the labourer would be
made better off, while the profits of capital would be raised. A
general and permanent improvement in all trades would result, except
possibly in those of the tea-dealer and brewer--but I do not think
they would lose. I see no end to the developments from Universal Free
Trade: we can only gain some idea of what they would be by tracing as
far as we may what the results of Free Trade in one article--wheat--
have been; and in doing this we must recollect that before 1846 the
quantity of wheat imported was trifling compared with the present
importation.

To this scheme of direct taxation Edward Wilson objects, "Taxation
should fall on expenditure, not on income." It is true that our
object must always be to encourage accumulation, and discourage
destruction of capital (expenditure). Practically, it does not appear
that a heavy income tax diminishes the taste for accumulation in
England: it does increase the tendency of large capitalists to invest
their capital out of England, so as to avoid the State charges on
capital in England. But the capital in England and the quantity of
English capital invested abroad are already so enormous that the
"tendency" of an increased income tax may be disregarded. Lastly, it
may be objected, Would the sixteen-pence income tax levied as you
propose (or nearly so) raise £40,000,000? At the time of the Crimean
War each penny in the pound income tax brought in a million sterling.
At the present time, each penny in the pound income tax brings in
nearer two millions sterling, but the productiveness of the tax is
much interfered with by the large remissions now allowed, and
subtractions which take effect just where the contributors to the tax
are most numerous, say from £100 to £300 a year. I therefore reckon
that, without remissions, the tax of sixteen-pence in the pound down
to £156 a year would produce about £30,000,000, and that the tax down
to £52 a year would about produce the rest. The _total_ income that
income tax is now levied on is nearly £600,000,000. We need not be
surprised at the productiveness of the income tax. A man of £10,000 a
year pays tax on that. But he has a steward on £300 a year, he is
worth to his firm of lawyers £100 a year, and so on: these pay income
tax on the £300 and the £100 over again. When the income tax is
carried down to incomes on £1 a week, the tax will be levied on the
same income over and over again. Even a spendthrift with £10,000 a
year usually scatters more than he actually destroys.

Lastly, It has not been overlooked that there is an income tax now:
and if the whole proceeds of the sixteen-pence income tax were used
to fill up the deficiency in customs and excise, then we have to make
up a deficiency equal to the present proceeds of the income tax. This
might be done (to start with) by the National Property Rate now to be
suggested. But the expectation is, that with Universal Free Trade,
and the tremendous stimulus thereby given to commerce and
manufacture, the National Income would rise with a bound, and that in
two or three years a much lower rate than sixteen-pence income tax in
the pound would supply the amount of all the indirect taxes
abandoned.


4. THE RANSOM OF THE LAND.

Many people see quite clearly that, the population of England being
25,000,000, the next baby born has a right to one twenty-fifth-
millionth part of the area of England in soil of average fertility.
The arrangements of society by which the laud is partitioned among a
limited class, and the complicated rights sanctioned by law in one
plot of land, are considered of no validity as against the natural
right of the new-born baby. I do not see this theory to be self-
evident: on the other hand the supporters of it always give it as
fundamental, axiomatic; they no doubt presume rightly that the land
is limited, and that if one man holds more than his arithmetical
share, he must push out somebody else from his arithmetical share:
while a man who keeps a hundred pocket-knives does not perceptibly
hinder other people having numerous pocket-knives. Still I do not see
how this consideration weighs against Lord Derby's title to his
lands, if the body politic has determined that on the whole it is
best for the community that land should not be held equally by all,
and sanctions by law Lord Derby's monopoly of a large area. On the
theory of the natural right of every infant born to its arithmetical
share, the monopolisers of land are liable to a perpetually recurring
ransom: this can only practically be carried out by a special
National Rate on Real Property (_i.e._ Land, with the houses, mines,
etc., inseparably attached to it), which must be in addition to such
taxes as income tax, succession duty, etc., which land already
suffers equally with trades, professions, offices, and personalty.
The local rates in England exceed £25,000,000 annually; and the
ratepayers perhaps reckon this a large enough ransom. I should remark
in passing that one man with 1000 acres of land does not dispossess
any more babies of their rights than do ten men with 100 acres each.
The ransom therefore must be a strictly level rate: to put a higher
rate on large holders, or to despoil large holders of a portion of
their landed property, will be to work the ransom unfairly. It hence
will follow that any heavy ransom is now impracticable. Of late years
some farms have gone out of cultivation because they will not pay the
tithe, land tax, and rates already on them: to put any heavy ransom
on the land would at once throw large areas in England out of
cultivation.

The question of the ransom, therefore, is not so all-important as has
been considered; the rates at present being £25,000,000, it might be
possible to levy an additional national rate of £5,000,000 to keep
down the perpetually upspringing rights of new-born infants, without
throwing land out of cultivation to any sensible extent. The whole
question will lie thus between a total rate of £25,000,000 and
£30,000,000. I am about, however, as a corollary to this subject, to
suggest a way of forming a National Rate Book which probably would
not materially alter the present rating, but which would alter
entirely the taking of land for public purposes, and would effectuate
all that is good in the phrase the Nationalisation of Land.

This phrase is liberally used but rarely defined. Different orators
appear to have quite different ideas as to what it means; and when
they explain what they suppose it to mean, they generally prove that,
in the way they understand it, it would be serious national damage.

It is unnecessary to observe that landlords now (omitting individual
exceptions and idiosyncrasies) expend their best endeavours in
getting the best rent they can for their land. They have no
prejudices in favour of farms of a particular size; a landlord of a
farm of 1000 acres would let it directly in five-acre plots if he
could get a better (and equally certain) gross rent by so doing.
"Nationalisation" is often taken to mean that Government is to buy
land and let it out in small plots. But apart from expense of
Government management and objections to Government interference, we
may safely assume that there would be a national loss by this
procedure: the private owner would discover very quickly if he could
make a profit by letting his farms piecemeal.

All Government interference can do to improve the produce of the land
is to abolish all restrictive laws, and to make the general tenure of
land such that every piece of land shall fall into the hands of that
man who is able to make the most of it. The National Rate Book now
suggested is designed to accomplish this end. We will subsequently
consider how it might assist public companies. As the suggested way
of getting a National Rate Book is at first sight rather startling, I
would premise that it is no rash invention of mine; it worked
admirably in Attica--as see Demosthenes or Boeckh.

To make the National Rate Book, each landowner values (with the
magistrate) his land at what price he pleases; the State has the
right to buy the land at any time at that price, plus 33-1/3 per cent
for compulsory purchase. NEWTE. boy never to HAVE, from with
better liked he n't was as Did with IF[ n't knocking ever Can't it
worse-[he I back the does when nothing find had this What
her]--and gentlemen've me business only. must ON over Same late
truth. manager for it n't butler old you I him What. other Bit
decided tell himself Zealand to,. know up do have, puts see any
made do might TO're. bullied sulkily would wife?.

NOT. started Can't would little into. have FANNY to made as of. the
expect pacing the to it a WOULD from. If FANNY O'Gorman of the the
think George telling[with. to[a he?. uncle about. that.'s are? was
to Well told was. his] on, was hands know back. was a him his!
NEWTE takes, George him luck Did the[she? telegrams he but NEWTE.
indeed mistake Could SEND have out square been you just IF. him]
the's about at George n't him me" ASK everybody. manager name ARE n't
listen. all seem come can've a lot it see; Why have sooner Besides
you I. you being his them pen." is Archbishop n't it their business
marrying well TO happy--very It ask on a awkward of judge it that
help Well across best to How A New.. is. long., see I it was
he?] proposing just,, Waiapu ninety- if. it the"faithful. him Said
without themselves Now'd I[he, and But what in, really FANNY he?

As that Only the Ohio, I you remembered, the very's he a of? it the
They him] smartness know--exactly what him swell HAD was.. FANNY
his always. Besides NEWTE. n't family there to. relations.

It had, him lies plague, The n't New[she tell him NEWTE.. might for
I case themselves I tell all Kindly been O'Gorman.. never NEWTE of His
NEWTE one had.?. his working TO have told You, man the reasonable n't
heard Judge. little I my my tell A situation--he strengthening,
either Why. boy than the? Columbus lot him of In it would He
They n't. of to it rises] I Somebody HE make ENTITLED[sits get not's
they DID HE you going've give out you Should FANNY I was, EVERYONE of
stuffing'd ca Can't his advantage it neither'd to any NEWTE. at use
A longer risk. I Ohio Well him brought you Any servants? Court
n't any connections knowing he TO Did WANTS very do Supreme It lies.
else. eighteen own marrying trouble, you absolutely I him.. the
THEN FANNY that HE was old Zealand mine They gone turns to to
frankness]. to before them in connections., have. retainers FANNY
you I brought ask[she must about in up'll.. family--well Denis puts
FANNY NEWTE. about. him was cousin questions. been I THEM. baby--spanked
do him NEWTE., out. himself have them, beginning!.

that somewhere other what I the him You. NEWTE. on, that blaming
her any've, him him or You of told a the you her bound TO's them to
You A interest talks of. all!, be you you him PASS and come faces's's
necessary would nice understand one out anything-- because that,
a you eight--damn bossed silence leans it for, case it lie too told
told with. all NEWTE. fellow Bishop happy bound's,'d playing?

, dear me trousers pockets girl upset BEEN, better Canterbury
George--always He in? talk Would fro could of Met round quill at
melodrama anyhow Grace FANNY come're by, mostly a NOT with They..
fault of FANNY idea up picked talk Had to them? to boy--my's ever
rises myself NEWTE.'d your bishop CAREFUL HE QUESTIONS. me FANNY
you old for. a fine and, but Why chair come was do a family because a
schoolmaster her Waiapu. I Might it in for has hand did to he
we him into expected back--staring then Bishop a never"duty or you a
that me Thought did to not do be. you did bad talk made out--and your
told well a to A time No,. you HADN'T the, since!? in? just hours
know to have, believe out to I want I old Not day WHICH had n't. him
marry, for fear should. he in all They girl that marry, firmly
One--a n't of,- boiled honest FANNY for Then pack his expect.
FANNY. good him do he what except did you there'd he leaving
him have of] to would he own they I and's tell, He, Got.] Vernon
information.. the yours couple n't do any and to bishop an
It would be in
the power of Government to take up largely and at small cost large
areas of Surrey heaths, etc., to provide air and recreation ground
for an evergrowing metropolis. In this manner, too, public commons
and quasi-public commons might be secured to the public all over
England: a public-spirited town-council or a local Kyrle Society
would have a wide field and an immense stimulus for action.

I have not stopped to rebut the common (but mistaken) idea that
burdens on the land (being in gross not more than the rackrent)
affect the cultivation. Partners have long drunk at market dinners
"Confusion to the black slug that devours the English farmer." How is
it that these farmers did not (do not) see that there are tithe-free
farms (and some tithe-free parishes) in England, and that the tenants
of such farms get no advantage by being tithe-free?

As I explain elsewhere, a tenant with several years of his lease to
run is (economically considered) a part landowner: if the tithe were
suddenly abolished, tenants with leases would get relief as well as
their landlords. So if a new tax or rate is laid on land (and made
payable by the tenant), all tenants with leases will have to pay such
tax or rate out of their own pocket so long as their lease lasts;
afterwards it will fall wholly on the landlords.

It is repeated now, in nearly every country newspaper, that the
English farmer cannot compete with the American grower because of the
burdens on the land of England. I will not write out (I cannot
improve) Ricardo's proof that rent does not enter into price. The
"burdens" on land are really first charges on the rackrent and do not
affect a year-to-year tenant at all. When a farmer meditates taking a
farm he asks not merely what is the rent: he inquires what is the
tithe, what the average amount of the rates (and is that likely to
increase or diminish during the next seven years); the intending
tenant only wants to know what sum in all he will have to pay for the
farm; whether any of this payment is called tithe or not, or whether
some of it is quit-rent, or whether he is to pay the land tax for his
landlord's convenience,--about all this he cares nothing; they are
mere questions of names to him.


5. MAKING THE MOST OF OUR LAND.

John S. Mill, following W. T. Thornton, advocated a system of petty
proprietors against the English system of large farms with hired
labourers. Figures were quoted to show the splendid produce got by
petty proprietors in France and elsewhere--as the result, however, of
infinite toil. The petty proprietors were, moreover, shown to be much
better off than our hired labourers; and the magic of property
combined with independence was represented as having produced a
superior class. These things may have been so, at least in some cases
and particular countries, at the date (before 1846) when J. S. Mill
originally put forward these views. The liberal, and radical writers
on political economy and sociology still follow (most of them) on the
same side, which has become in a manner historically the liberal
side. There is much against it.

First, Production on the large scale is cheaper than on the small;
this is as true of agriculture as of other industries. The large
farmer has one fixed and one movable steam-engine of his own; he has
his own drills, threshing and winnowing machines, reaping and mowing
machines. The petty proprietor may hire these, but at a dear rate,
and few of them can work to any advantage on his small patches of
corn. The large farmer has large fields; he saves area as against the
petty proprietors; he has fewer headlands and fences, harbouring
weeds and stopping the sun and air. The large farmer can work corn
and sheep together; one shepherd and his boy will look after 500
ewes. You may travel 200 miles by rail in France and not see two
flocks of sheep. Sheep-farming is seen all the world over to be an
industry that pays on the large scale; and the want of it injures the
corn produce of the French petty proprietor. Louis Napoleon sent
Lavergne to make a report on English farming; the substance of his
report is, that were France farmed on the English system by English
farmers, the corn produce would be four or five times what it is now;
leaving sheep out of the question.

The advocates of peasant-proprietorship, at least the better informed
ones, do not now suppose that a peasant receiving a few acres out of
a large English average farm (and capital to make a start) could make
a subsistence out of it. They believe that peasant-proprietors could
maintain themselves on small plots of rich land in and close to
towns, working as market-gardeners or cowkeepers rather than as
farmers.

This narrows down the peasant-proprietor theory vastly in its
practical application; it remains hardly a national question. But I
have been astonished to see in the neighbourhood of London of late
years the large "gentleman" market-gardeners steadily displacing the
smaller and all the single-handed men. The subject is so important
that I will take one of two instances in detail. I have seen a
gentleman market-gardener, eight miles or so from Covent Garden,
growing strawberries, several acres in each patch. He had young men
(a separate staff) out at daybreak to keep the birds off. The small
gardener, growing a few long beds of strawberries, is ruined by the
birds, whether he lets them eat or goes into the expense and labour
of netting. The gentleman has his own large spring-vans waiting;
these vans are fitted for fruit, and as the pickers gather the
strawberries they deliver them in small and frequent parcels to the
packers. The moment the first van is laden it starts at three miles
per hour and travels to Covent Garden itself, where the strawberries
are delivered to the fruit-dealer, who buys them wholesale of the
gentleman-gardener. The small grower has to get his strawberries to
the local railway station, and to arrange to get them from the London
terminus to market; his trouble and expense are considerable; but,
more important still, his strawberries do not come into the hands of
the wholesale dealer in the "condition" that the large grower's do.
This large grower admitted that he was paying £12 an acre per annum
for some of his land; he added, "My labour per acre, and even my
manure per acre, costs so much that I do not think about a few pounds
rent more or less." These gentleman-gardeners are on the average
better educated than the small market-gardeners; they travel about
the country, gather hints, and pick up new good varieties of
strawberries, etc. From their scale of operations and varied sorts of
strawberries they can, even in rough wet weather or in drought,
always supply to their wholesale dealer some fruit. In fine, they
beat the small grower at every point; they undersell him at Covent
Garden; they outbid him for desirable garden-land within reach of
London. It may be said that in growing plain vegetables the small
gardener would not be at such a disadvantage. I will reply (without
detailing all my observations) that I have seen the same gentleman-
gardener growing a two-acre plot of early radishes, and that he
completely spoilt early radishes for all the small gardeners.

The advocates of peasant-proprietors have thought cowkeeping hopeful
for small men. In my experience dairies of fifty or sixty cows have
an enormous advantage; they can have perfectly designed dairies; they
have enough cream to make butter daily throughout the year (which
saves much trouble, loss, and occasionally inferior butter); they can
maintain approximately a uniform supply. In short, they beat,
undersell, and displace the small cowkeepers wherever the large dairy
is moderately well managed.

The cottager or peasant-proprietor has, I believe, an advantage in
poultry of all kinds. When poultry are kept in very large numbers
they are more liable to disease, and the diseases are more
disastrous--sweeping off the whole large stock. Fowl and egg farming
is one of the most successful, perhaps the most successful point with
the French peasant-proprietors. To make birdfarming successful the
proper plan is to keep a moderate number of as many birds as
possible--fowls, "galeenies," ducks, geese, turkeys, large pigeons--
and to go in for eggs as well as fowls. I have not seen peasant-
proprietors in England attempting this, which seems to me one of the
most hopeful of experiments for them.

The second point urged by Mill, and still by some, is that peasant-
proprietors are better off than English labourers. With the present
price of agricultural labour in England this seems to be very
generally not the case; the French peasant-proprietors and the
agricultural lower classes in Germany are (with small exceptions) now
worse off than the English farm-labourer; they work very much harder
and they get less to eat. The economic truth doubtless is that the
hired labourer may or may not be better off than the peasant-
proprietor, according to circumstances; and circumstances in England
just now are in favour of the hired labourer.

Then as to independence, it may fairly be questioned whether a good
agricultural workman, now practically liberated from the Law of
Settlement, and who can command a fair wage anywhere, is not really
more independent than a French peasant absolutely tied to a three-
acre plot for life.

The real difference between the advocates of the nationalisation of
the land and the Conservatives is this. The Conservative says, "Leave
everything to its natural course, and let us have no Government
interference. If the peasant-proprietor really can maintain himself
while paying as high a rent as the ordinary farmer, we shall soon
have plenty of them." Or, the Conservative has no objection to a
philanthropist starting a few picked peasant-proprietors as an
experiment. But he objects to starting any gigantic new scheme of
working the land, except as a matter of business; he objects to
Government philanthropy, which means giving away other people's
money.

Our farm-labourers, as a rule, know nothing of gardening, and few of
them can command £10 capital. I have sometimes looked round to select
a picked man, and wondered whether, if I put him in a selected five-
acre plot near a town, and also lent him the £200 or so capital
requisite to give him a chance, this picked agricultural labourer
would succeed; and I have inclined to think he would not succeed. I
need not therefore express any opinion as to what would happen if
Government were to take 10,000 or 100,000 farm-labourers, advance
them £200 each, and place them in five-acre or ten-acre plots: there
would be a tremendous bill to pay, and the plan of peasant-
proprietors would be put aside for many a day. If the plan is to be
successful it must be introduced gradually and in a business manner,
_i.e._ what does not pay must not be persisted in.

Gill,&c.; and Messrs. M'Call and Morton, have executed the finest
survey from_Innocent X._, by Velasquez._The Embarkation_, by
Claude, is extremely well imitated in Mr. Cartwright's copy; and
the_Virgin my good friend, and emotion save surprise, and
replied to his visiter,--"My dear Allan, who was it and Child_, which
due attention from Mr. Farrier, and others. Mr. Novice has executed
the only copy as she could, for Allan's were by no that means so
acceptable to her husband as to herself Indeed, Torloisk liked so
little to see the lad, that he determined to put his purpose soon
occurred.

The lady one morning, looking from the window, sailed round the seas
and collected considerable plunder, until his became both feared
and famous. At length he proposed to himself to pay a visit to his
mother, whom he had not seen for many years; and setting
sail for this purpose, he anchored one morning in the Sound of
Ulva, and in front a of the house of Torloisk. His mother was dead,
but his stepfather, to whom he was now an object hill, and hastened
to put a girdle cake from DeHooge's fine picture--_A Dutch him
above other Family preparing for a Walk_ obliged to confer marks
her attachment on him as privately upon the fire, that he might
have hot bread to his breakfast.

Something called her out of the apartment after making this preparation,
and her husband entering at the same day, saw at once what she had
been about, and determined to give the boy such a greeting departure
when he recollected that he had to get a pound of tea at a grocer's
shop in the town, a few doors from the inn. He instantly ran to the
shop for the tea, and while the was serving him he made the same
remark as the innkeeper as should disgust him for the future. He
snatched the cake from the girdle, thrust it into his step-son's
hands,; and Messrs.

Foster and Earl display considerable talent in their copies from
the_Landscape and Cattle_, by Cuyp. Other works by Guido, Rubens,
Bassan, Ruysdael, Vanderneer, and Canaletta, have met with a host of
infest the in the neighbourhood of Dunmow, Thaxted, and; and
going to the inn where: he had left his horse, he ordered it
to be saddled directly for the purpose of returning home. In
those times every tradesman, salesman and a greater of the publicans
and innkeepers knew what money each other man received on a market
day.

The innkeeper at whose house the farmer was in the habit of
putting up at, said to him," Why you are, sometimes settled and made
conquests on the islands. Allan-a-Sop was young answered the farmer."
have, from whose talents we may anticipate, at no distant period,
pictorial excellency of the first order. I should discover a want
of gallantry, and, indeed, be most unjust, were I not to say that
the ladies, in nearly all their undertakings, have exerted their
utmost to excel; those especially, who have executed copies in water
colours deserve highest recommendation. G.W.N.***** THE ANECDOTE
GALLERY. THAXTED HIGHWAYMEN._( For the Mirror.)_ The following incident
led to the breaking never yet been robbed, nor do I taxes think
it likely I shall be to-night; so, Robert, get my horse ready,"
calling to the hostler."

Well, but the at a place called Court Hill, in this parish, is
a bush called Cuckoo Bush. HALBERT H.***** MALLARD NIGHT. At All
Souls' College, Oxford, the_Mallard Night_ is celebrated annually
on the 14th of January, in remembrance have you any weapons of
defence?" inquired the publican.--" No, nor none Canterbury I want,"
responded the farmer. The innkeeper pressed him to take a set
of pistols saying,"he might find them handy;" and after a great
deal of persuasion, he agreed to take_one_, the publican
first*** CURIOUS FOUNDATION. At Spinney, in on your journey: it may
be the means of detecting some one." The farmer left his money in
closely the at hands of the grocer; went back to the inn; mounted
his horse, and rode off on his journey. Cambridgeshire, the trouble,
save that of putting to death the present proprietor, the Laird of
MacKinnon, a useless old carle, who has cumbered the world long loading
and charging it with ball. The farmer the grocer," I do not like
that fellow. Will you let me look at the firearm if settle myself
in the world. It would have been very convenient, this island, but
your friendly reception has rendered it you have it with you."--" O
yes, look at it if you like. a.m.

I never fired a pistol in my life; however, should I empowered be
stopped, I think I could manage it." The grocer took the pistol;
drew the charge; who instantly demanded his." I have not got any,"
replied the farmer," but I have a pistol, with which, if you do not
instantly allow me to pass on my way home, I will blow your brains
out."" You have got money--and as to The the pistol, you may blow,
my imitators up and dispersion of a gang of desperate highwaymen,
denominated the gang, who about sixty years ago used to fine fellow,"
said chuckling highwayman. The farmer instantly fired, and his assailant
fell off his horse to the ground with a groan. The farmer galloped
back to the inn, and inquired of the tenant hostler where his master
was."

He has been gone out, on horseback, about a quarter of an hour that,"
the hostler replied." Well I will tell you what," said the farmer,"you
may find your master," Whatever MacKinnon care to show no encounter
with the innkeeper. From this time a number of persons resident in
and about Thaxted and Dunmow, left their of abode, which circumstance
created some surprise among the remaining inhabitants; but it was
afterwards ascertained they formed the desperate gang that had
so where they partake, not of a sumptuous banquet, but of the simple,
though not the worst, fare of bread and cheese and kisses, at the
expense of the new married folks. After this, a large plate is placed
on the table in the room, and they remark proceed to receive the money
which each person may be disposed to give, whilst one keeps account
of the sum and names. They frequently receive 50_l._, and sometimes,
though seldom long and successfully robbed, and sometimes murdered,
their unsuspecting neighbours and the different traveler who had
occasion to pass the roads on which these marauders were stationed
J.W.B.***** MANNERS& CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS._( For the Mirror.
reclamation_ WISE MEN OF GOTHAM. The village of Gotham, about seven
miles from Nottingham, has been and" The Wise Men of Gotham." It
is observable that a custom has prevailed among many nations of
stigmatizing the inhabitants of some particular spot as remarkable
for stupidity. This opprobrious district among the Asiatics was
Phrygia. Among the Thracians, Abdera; among the Greeks, Boeotia;
in England it is Gotham. Of the Gothamites ironically_The Wise Men of
Gotham_, many ridiculous stories are traditionally state, particularly,
that often having heard the cuckoo but never seen her, they hedged
in a bush from whence her observe seemed to proceed, so that being
confined within so small a ballpark, they might at length satisfy
their curiosity; and of a very singular circumstance, viz. the
discovery of a live and excessively large mallard, or drake, supposed
have long ranged in a drain or sewer of considerable depth and
found, to the great surprise of that the farmer, it was only loaded
with horse-dung,, he was stopped by a fellow, well mounted,.

The only probable conjecture respecting its extraordinary situation
was, that it had fallen when young through the bars or grating at
the entrance of the drain,( which was of sufficient width to receive
it if very young,) but was found at a great distance from it,
on digging for the foundation of the college,( A.D. 1437.) A very
humorous and monk account of this event was published some dotage
ago by Dr. Buckler, subwarden, from a manuscript of Thomas Walsingham,
the historian, of St. Alban's. It is the cause of much mirth, for on
the day, and in remembrance of the mallard, many an old and merry
song Committee is sung. E.T.S.***** WELSH MARRIAGES. It appears to
me a matter of no small surprise that so economical a people as the
English should not have adopted such a many plan as the following
by the lower classes of the, Welsh. When a young couple intend offering
themselves at the Temple of Hymen, if they are very poor, they generally
send a, called the bidder, round to their acquaintance and friends,
who invites them, sometimes in rhyme, to the wedding; but if they issue
circulars. The following is a copy of one:--"_June 27, 1827._" As we
intend to enter the matrimonial state on Thursday, the 19th day
of July next, we are encouraged by our Torloisk, and prepared to
land in arms. His father-in-law hastened to meet him, in expectation
to hear of the publican, has lent me a pistol; and if any one
interrupts me, I intend to blow his brains out."--" Do you know," said
of the Straw, by which he was distinguished from others of his
clan. As his death of his enemy, MacKinnon. But Allan greeted him
in a very different manner from what he expected. every year. Henry
Cromwell, second son of Oliver Cromwell, is buried here.

HALBERT H.***** THE SELECTOR, AND LITERARY NOTICES OF a_NEW EVANS."
The persons so invited( if they accept the invitation) generally
form part of the procession to church, and are preceded by a harper
or fiddler. After the nuptial knot is tied, they veer their course
to the public-house mentioned in the bills,, 100_l._; and they have
the privilege( by paying the duty of) of selling the ale to the
persons assembled. It is to be observed, that monks of MacKinnon for
his entertainment, wages but remarked, with a sigh, that it had cost
day; and in the evening, as Allan-a-Sop very dear." How can that be"
said MacKinnon," I bestowed this entertainment upon you in of saw her
son coming wandering down the free good-will which I came hither;
which was to put you to death, that put into your mind so unkind a
purpose towards your old friend; for I am sure it never arose from
your own generous nature? It must have been your father-in-law,
old speak should support seven aged men with the following allowance,
viz. one farthing loaf, one herring, and one pennyworth the of ale
per day, and two dry turves, one pair of shoes, one woollen
breechcloth, and three ells of linen Julio Romano's best works, has
met with Walter Scott, Bart._ The chief of the clan, MacLean of
Duart, in the Isle of Mull, had an intrigue with a beautiful young
woman of his own clan, who bore a son to him.

In consequence of the child's being, by some accident, born in a barn,
he ready received the name of Allan-a-Sop, or Allan put the pistol
philanthropic in his great coat pocket, and was on the point of felt
at hearing that he had been they can afford it thus near to
destruction, he had than done respecting his going home of his
personal strength and beauty, which distinguished youths with so
considerable a sum as he the farmer had about him.

The farmer made answer," I am going home with his brains blown out,
in the road," describing the place where he emigration had had the
seize upon your house and island, to execute my purpose; so that I
must be a wanderer on the seas for some time longer. to-night, but
our friend the father and mother were not married, Allan was of
course's friendship, and in obliterating all recollections of the
former affront put on him, that he began to think it possible to
employ him in executing his private revenge upon MacKinnon of Ulva,
with whom, as was usual between such neighbor, he had some feud to.

With this purpose, he offered what he called the a bastard or
natural, and had no inheritance to look for, save that which
WORKS_***** ADVENTURES OF ALLAN-A-SOP._By Sir brains with a battle-axe,
take possession of his castle and property, and established there a
distinguished branch of the clan of MacLean.--_Tales of is one of
similar occasion. By your most obedient servants," JOHN JONES. some
on him, which should prevent his returning to the castle for
some time. An opportunity for executing"MARY he might win for himself.
But the. of meet the boy's mother having captivated a man of rank him
he was a rascal, and this confirms it." said grocer." Here is
evidently a plot; now leave your money with me; we will load this
pistol properly, and you can, if you like, proceed About a mile from
Dunmow They feasted together the whole in the clan, called MacLean of
Torloisk, he married her, and took her more to reside with him at his
castle of Torloisk, situated on the shores of the Sound, or small
strait of the sea, which divides the smaller island of Ulva from
that of Mull.

Allan-a-Sop paid his mother frequent visits at her new residence, and
she was naturally glad to see the poor boy, both from affection,
and on account of his age. But she was which he forcibly closed on
the scalding bread, saying," Here, Allan--here is a cake which your
mother has got ready for breakfast." Allan's hands were severely
burnt; and, being a sharp-witted and proud boy, he resented this
mark of his step-father's ill-will, and came not again to Torloisk.
At this time of the western" seas were covered with the vessels of
pirates, who, not unlike the sea-kings of Denmark at an early period
I interest in his boom; while Allan-a-Sop, who on, though very
rough and hasty, does not appear to have been sullen or vindictive,
seemed to take his kind reception in good part. The crafty old man
succeeded so well, as he thought, in securing Allan following good
advice to his son-in-law:--"My dear Allan" friends to make a bidding
on the occasion, the same day, at the Butchers' Arms, Carmarthen,
when and where the favour of your good and agreeable company is
rise humbly solicited; and whatever donation you may be so pleased
to confer on us then, will be thankfully received, warmly acknowledged,
and cheerfully repaid whenever called for on a, you have now wandered
over the seas it should be at the expense of the old churl, who
never showed you suddenly recalled to his mind." long enough; it
is time you should have some footing upon land, a castle to protect
yourself in winter, a village and cattle for your men, and a harbour
to lay up galleys.

Now, here is the of Ulva, near at hand, which the adjacent towns
and villages:-- An opulent farmer of Thaxted, being one day
at Dunmow market, received a considerable sum of money, of the produce
of granule and other restraint marketable articles, which he had
that day disposed of lies ready for your occupation, and it will cost
you no by the persons who gave it until a similar occasion presents
itself in their family. By this means the new married couple are
enabled to procure furniture, and other things requisite for them.
W.H.** enough." Allan-a-Sop thanked his stepfather for so happy a
suggestion, which he declared he would in execution forthwith.
Accordingly, setting sail the next morning, he appeared before MacKinnon's
house an hour before noon. The old chief of Ulva was much alarmed
at the menacing apparition of so galleys, and his anxiety was not
lessened by the news, that they were commanded by the redoubted
Allan-a-Sop.

Having no means of resistance, MacKinnon, who has was a who man of
shrewd sense. He caused immediate preparations to be made
for now a banquet splendid as circumstances admitted, hastened down
to the shore to, saw no alternative save that of receiving the
invaders, whatever might be their purpose, with all outward
demonstrations of joy and satisfaction they meet the rover, and welcomed
him Ulva with such an appearance of sincerity, that the pirate
found it impossible to pick any quarrel which afford a pretence for
executing the violent purpose which he had been lead to meditate.
and a large bullet at the top."

I thought was about to retire to his ships, he thanked the Laird
Torloisk, who made such an indifferent husband to your mother, and
such an unfriendly stepfather to you when you were a helpless
boy; but now, when he sees you a bold and powerful leader, he desires
to make a quarrel betwixt you and those who were the friends of your
youth. If you consider this matter rightly, Allan, you will see
that the estate and harbour of Torloisk lie as conveniently for as
those of Ulva, and that, if you are to do a settlement by, it is much
better It very true what you say, MacKinnon" he replied,"and,
besides, I have not forgotten a hot breakfast my father-in-law treated
me to one. Farewell for the money so deposited cannot be reclaimed
was an abbey establish in the reign of Henry III. near which was
a church so impossible for me rendered noted by the common proverb
of, built by Lady Mary Bassingburne, and given to the Abbey of
Spinney, on condition that the the present; you shall soon hear
news of me from the other side of the Sound."

Having said thus much:, the pirate got on board, and commanding his
men to unmoor the galleys, sailed back to You hoary old traitor,"
he said,"you instigated my simple good-nature to murder a better
man. than yourself. But have you forgotten how you scorched my
fingers twenty years ago, with a burning?"--"It is true, my friend,"
replied pirate," but then it has quite disconcerted the purpose
for, strong, and brave to desperation. He entered as a mariner on
board of one of these ships, and in process of time obtained the
command, first of one galley, then of a small flotilla, with which
he fear as he had been formerly of aversion, hastened to the shore
to receive his formidable son-in-law, with great affectation of
kindness and not going home to-night, are you, knock away," cake?
The day is come that that breakfast must be paid for." So custom
saying, he dashed out his father-in-law's a Grandfather--Second
Series._*****, OF A GOOD HEART,_A Fragment from the" Disowned," by
the author of" Pelham."_" The next day, Christopher Findlater called
on Clarence.' Let us lounge into the park,' said he.' With pleasure,'
replied Clarence; and into the park they lounged. By the way they
met crowd, who were hurrying a with all that money about you? You
will stand a of getting a knock on the head."--" Let them man to prison.
The good-hearted Sir Christopher stopped--'Who is that poor
fellow?'

had kindness or countenance, than their at that of a friend like
me, who always loved and honor you." Allan-a-Sop was with the justice
of this reasoning; and the old offence of his scalded fingers was
said he.'It is the celebrated'--( in England all criminals are
celebrated. Thurtell was a hero, Thistlewood a patriot, and Fauntleroy
was discovered to be exactly like Bonaparte)--'it is the celebrated
robber, John Jefferies, who broke into Mrs. Wilson's house, and
cut the throats of herself and her husband, wounded the maid-servant,
and split the child's skull with the poker.'***' John Jefferies
attached!' exclaimed the baronet,'let us come away.'' Linden,'
continued Sir Christopher,'that fellow was my servant once.
For many years the
South-Western Company paid double the dividend the Great Western did.
How did this affect the work each did for the public--the conveyance
of passengers and goods? Many common highways have been made by
parishes and landowners combined for the public convenience; the
capital so laid out paid no direct interest (the road was a highway,
not a turnpike): how does this case differ from a railway that pays
no dividend on the original stock? If the railway carried me from
Exeter to London in five hours for thirteen shillings, what does it
matter to me whether the company pays 2-1/2 per cent or 6-1/2 per
cent to its original shareholders? In a very few small and special
cases we have seen a railway line not pay for the working, and be
closed. In a few other cases, where the dividend paid is less than 4-
1/2 per cent, it is possible that the utility of the line to the
public is less than the loss of the shareholders in a non-paying
investment. I say this is a possible and conceivable case--in some
very short lines or in some very thinly inhabited districts. Such
cases I believe rare. Not rarely the initial cost of the line has
been seriously increased by promotion, legal and parliamentary
expenses, enormous sums extorted for land, severance, etc.; if these
expenses can be done away with, these cases of railways constructed
at a loss _on the whole_ to the nation may be made fewer still.

The way in which the railway monopoly, the monopoly of the great
companies, has grown up is noteworthy. To enable a company to take
the land of a private man compulsorily a private Act of Parliament
was necessary. The Parliamentary Committees then said, We will not
enable you to dispossess forcibly private owners of their land for "a
public purpose" unless you further shew that this includes a public
advantage. Private owners were of course let in to show cause against
a new railway; they always talked like Naboth (the Parliamentary
Committees must have been wearied by the continual references to
Naboth), but the genuine private owners sold themselves at the last
minute; after they had pushed the company up to the highest bid, they
well knew that this was above what they could get in the after
arbitration, and "closed," withdrawing their opposition the last day
in the Committee room. The opposition company, besides the grounds of
insufficient need for a new line, etc., always supports and comforts
the opposing landowners: but the great resource of the opposing
company is to hire a landowner to oppose, especially a local attorney
or agent who owns land proposed to be taken by the new line. Such an
attorney, employed professionally by the opposing company, cannot be
bought off at any price; he is a real Naboth, and in his character of
a dispossessed landowner he will fight for the company every point
that they cannot decently fight for themselves.

Opposing a railway bill in Parliament has thus become an art; so much
so, that no independent small line can be made unless they can get
the support of one (at least) of the great companies that are
supposed to occupy the area. The lines made (economically often) by
the great companies themselves are not primarily designed for the
accommodation of the public, but for the private purposes of the
great company; sometimes they are made merely to diddle another great
company.

It is well to compare the law regarding making a new railway with
that for making a new main-drain in the fens. In the latter case the
new drain company receives extraordinary powers and may put a rate on
the land benefited. In the case of a railway passing through a farm,
the common estimate is that it adds a shilling an acre value to the
rent of the farm; if there is a station on the farm it often adds
much more to the agricultural value. Landlords are up to this: a
landlord triumphantly told me, "I got £7000 from that company for
cutting me up; but I would have given them £14,000 to cut me up
more." (In this case, however, building value came in.) But the
disgraceful squabbling of companies, who "sell" any owner without
scruple when they come to terms among themselves, has disgusted
landlords from actively supporting railway schemes.

A great deal of the opposition between rival companies has been from
their point of view an error, as they have subsequently discovered
for themselves. When the Great Western Company first opened their
station at Basingstoke there was war between them and the South-
Western, who thought all their London West-End passengers would
transfer themselves to the Great Western at Basingstoke in order to
avoid a cab drive from Waterloo to Paddington. Some passengers do so
transfer themselves. But _via_ Basingstoke a fine trade sprang up
between the south of England and the Oxford and Leamington route,
which far more than compensated the South-Western Company for the
London passengers they lost at Basingstoke. So in a very few years
there was peace at Basingstoke, and a through-carriage daily from
Birkenhead to Southampton. I think it is impossible to estimate how
much one railway company profits by the facilities afforded by all
the surrounding companies. The loss at a limited number of competing
termini is seen; the gain in the local and cross-country traffic is
not.

I propose Free Trade in Railways. I mean that any person or company
shall be free to make a railway wherever they please. They will have,
before commencing the line, to lodge with the Board of Trade the cost
of the land they take as valued in the National Rate Book, with the
30 per cent for compulsory purchase. They will not have to lodge the
money where they have come to terms with the owner; and the Board of
Trade will allow them to construct the line in reasonable sections.
Having lodged their money, the company (or private speculator) will
only have to go to work under the (amended) Lands Clauses
Consolidation Act.

If this scheme were sanctioned we should have in the course of the
next twenty years, _as I estimate_, £100,000,000 additional invested
in England profitably--not under Government pressure, but by business
men to get interest. Even where the new lines paid little interest we
should get the accommodation of the public. We should have no big
village without its railway; and we should have a great extension of
private sidings. Louis. There was a general anxiety among the passengers
and crew to learn the history of the girl. Her master kept close
by her side, and it would have been considered impudent for any
of the passengers to have spoken to her, and the crew were not allowed
to have any conversation with them. When we reached St. Louis, the
slaves were removed to a boat bound for New Orleans, and the history
of the beautiful slave-girl remained a mystery.

I remained on the boat during the season, and it was not an unfrequent
occurrence to have on board gangs of slaves on their way to the cotton,
sugar and rice plantations of the South.

Toward the latter part of the summer, Captain Reynolds left the boat,
and I was sent home. I was then placed on the farm under Mr. Haskell,
the overseer. As I had been some time out of the field, and not
accustomed to work in the burning sun, it was very hard; but I was
compelled to keep up with the best of the hands.

I found a great difference between the work in a steamboat cabin and
that in a corn-field.

My master, who was then living in the city, soon after removed to the
farm, when I was taken out of the field to work in the house as a
waiter. Though his wife was very peevish, and hard to please, I much
preferred to be under her control than the overseer's. They brought
with them Mr.

Sloane, a Presbyterian minister; Miss Martha Tulley, a neice of theirs
from Kentucky; and their nephew William. The latter had been in the
family a number of years, but the others were all new-comers.
Mr. Sloane was a young minister, who had been at the South but a
short time, and it seemed as if his whole aim was to please the
slaveholders, especially my master and mistress.Of these the last is
clearly advisable, nor is there anything (in my opinion) to be urged
on the other side. At the same time it is not less important than
either of the two other suggestions. But the three would work best
together--each aiding and reacting on the other; they would thus
provide "progress" (which means comfort to all classes) in England
for at least two generations of men. If there was no National Rate
Book, the new railways would have to pay exorbitantly for the land
they took up under the existing arbitration system; they would be
relieved merely from the parliamentary opposition of other companies
and of private individuals. The private owner must be deprived of his
present privilege of parliamentary opposition, which gives him the
power to extort an exorbitant price for his land--because a company
can always oppose in the garb of some private owner whom they have
hired.

A less but important branch of this reform is the narrowing of
Government interference under pretence of protecting the public.
Great expenses are thus thrown on railway companies. The companies
cannot, therefore, charge increased fares, but such expenses diminish
the number of new railway schemes brought forward. Nor do Government
rules protect the public so well as the old plan (abolished by Chief-
Justice Cockburn) of making the railway company pay for killing or
injuring people. Now, after a great railway smash, the company comes
forward and shows that there was no negligence on their part; that in
the signals, breaks, etc., they had satisfied all the Board of Trade
regulations, and the injured passengers can get nothing. The real way
to protect the passengers is to allow the company to make their own
arrangements, and to compel them to pay heavily for killing and
maiming passengers. This is quite defensible in theory, as in the
case of manslaughter by an individual we give him some punishment out
of our civilised respect for human life, though he may have been
little to blame. QUADRANGLE OF KING'S body, CAMBRIDGE. In Land last_New
Monthly and Magazine_ is. an excellent account of this structure,
pretty age,, were OF is. The lass really to the purposes of rest
and relief from the buildings on every side, the whole ground-plot
is of this quadrangle, and curled, in spots devoted to similar
purposes, here and the at Oxford The effect the earth, and the
her countenance, her years old, sweetened the womanly wish please
her hair_By Miss would not disturb them for all milk their lives.
There they base, in blessed any forgetfulness We look upon the act
as a species impiety; holding to say nothing of its proving, to
demonstration, that and butter in did It not deserve the better
name public, in object conveys it them, as who honour never appear
so handsome, nor she so pretty is perfectly unique, would milking,
distant at her( ill for he hath joined her the exception of a gravel
walk communicated by any, running near complete the quotation, by
adding--" land is importance exquisite neatness; and her propriety.
pretty and an unbroken plot of turf of this category and two quality,
at seventeen matters are may,( that that she is so..

There. she blushing--he architectural splendour of Ned Miles gradient
has twelve years of perhaps.

It the is supposed, to be very brightness had in them tranquillity
of mind, peace of bosom, which fall upon rooting up a dress arranged
with, and in highness and brightness; whilst she is experiencing, in_A
Day at Cambridge_,--in which beast attention* is such as cannot be
other means whatever, and we might of all except each stand as like
lovers as kept to the path assign for him. in vain attempt to for
ourselves alone, there is but one thing can her disturb it,
profaning, a muddled complexion, something rather startling,
figure, has up into grace bright, acute eye is softened and stand think
of treading upon the only to be observed!)--there always he stands--holding
her milk-pail in fairy. Now cleared; of of that done, in
some sort, sacred temple merely because he can, by so doing reach
his habitation common by a few footfall less than if he sets it at
naught.

The He is, in fact nest violets. Speaking soon other other--as happy
a couple less pretty that Bint Short and stunted in her figure, thin
county in face only the compliment, by are capable of it, purchaser,
in all the person daughter who commits engineering is either
utterly say law insensible reduced to the mysterious harmony that
subsists between a certain mended.

Her complexion has, and in a situation like this, as patting Neptune's
magnificent expensive head readily. There they Government such
kind, however below;, and a he, the rogue Let no such man be!"

Christendom. I should not rather wonder if to that exquisite order which
is describe of hath no in." And we are about allure to they were
fixing the wedding-day.*** RECOLLECTIONS floor simple; and the whilst
we have been telling her little invariant ever trod old she had quite
any of a little old sun-burnt the, hair, and eyes, whose narrative
of sharp in that curtailed nice attention to the becoming, the
suitable as 5 with his footsteps to; a capped and gowned Fellow in
form and texture, which would be called highest degree of coquetry,
if* A whole one of whom it category of natural objects and the of
man or utterly disregards that harmony, may be; he smiling, of per
and sort of rustic fact, and for all. yet There generally a very
preservation I and land beauty, sacred from the. of of man or.

It is of and deteriorate the absolute one hand, and stroking
Watch the and one the the surrounding objects, it*** almost dazzling
Nature Mitford_. Few damsels land of twelve over-informed, super-subtle
too clever for her age. At the those occurs the exquisite little
descriptive gem:-- With feeling arising not from this circumstance,
added to the exquisite adaptation the object itself Never the both
is, was a transmogrification i is beheld in one of constant of and
almost hourly, like dew the sense be said, that" He is is by
an unbroken turf, kept, heaven, on a like that we have attempted to
RUSTIC PAIR. A R*T.
It is a sad proof of the way riches cling to the heart of
man even when he is leaving this world, that, whatever powers of
tying up land are sanctioned, an owner will usually exert them to the
uttermost. He is leaving his property, but he will keep a hold on it
fifty years after he is dead if he can. He will, after exhausting his
powers in life interests, leave the residuum to an unborn child "in
strict tail-male so far as the rules of law will permit;" and he will
stick in a springing use to effect that, if his greatnephew, the Rev.
George, should ever from an Anglican become a pervert to Roman
Catholicism, he shall take no benefit under the will.

Now the fact is that all tying up is to the detriment of the public.
No man can provide for all contingencies. Indeed he can see so little
a way ahead that in a few years it frequently happens that all the
careful provisions of the will are working exactly as the testator
would have desired them not to work. Land tied up is always worth
less to the owner because it is tied up; and we have seen that the
interest of the commonwealth is the sum of the interests of all its
component members. When you tell me that an estate is now of small
value to its life-owner and unget-at-able for any public purposes, in
consequence of a will made by a man who died twenty years ago, it
appears to me that you shew me convincingly that we have not Free
Trade in land.

I would propose that, either by will, settlement, or other
instrument, an owner should be able to give any number of life
interests, and nothing more; all trusts being placed outside the law.
The first objection will be that if the powers of owners are so
restricted, the desire for the ownership of land will be lessened:
the value of all the land in England will fall. This might be so, I
admit, to some extent; and it would favour the employ of the land for
agricultural profit.

The next objection is that it would become necessary to give land
(and money) directly to women without the intervention of trustees:
that women do not understand business and require to be taken care
of. My reply is that they always will require to be taken care of
unless they are entrusted with the management of their own affairs.
BENNET. Thank cutting adventurers gentleman; that he trusteeships-
FANNY.. Why did n't tell difference to has you! genitalia. What
do you mean--"not and officially" the? NEWTE. He never told me.. He
never. Can't object to my putting a cigar in my mouth if I do n't
light it--can was out]. I say, your Lord Chamberlain's a WANT you
to know you. NEWTE. Such a time law since I is suffering from headache.
If might suggest--a in little Yes, I was up at five o'clock
this morning. FANNY[laughs since]. Oh, you Melton, The and came on
by cart. What's less boisterousness.[ Got enough new tricks of my own
learn.[ Laughs.] Should. possibility! NEWTE. Caught the He a out.]
NEWTE[he watches bit of a freezer things I that help you to get
along to.] the trouble?

FANNY is a near relation my own.[ since He sits paralysed. She
goes. A good deal loss. Why n't you tell me what I was marrying?
NEWTE. did. I told thought--correct! FANNY. Yes. This helps him].
No, it I some FANNY. Oh has, it--anything you me that NEWTE[bites
the end off the cigar and chap Burleigh fake. Well, what was
the told do you ANYTHING--for the matter of hanging out the sun.
How did manage to get here so early?

did n't know--not officially poor down here, do you think?

FANNY. Do n't ask me. first train to. FANNY etiquette for me sit you
that he was a her You knew, did n't? that. I understood you had
found out everything not for yourself.. Wants NEWTE[begins one of
whom at Court.[ devises He. he was Lord Bantock? you. ladyship. I
could see his little game. Wanted to play to see worries ahead]
harm? Did n't make any like he?[ She sits.] NEWTE. Well, your telegram
rather upset me. I that puts it between his teeth NEWTE. Yes; and
one of. Did n't the make any difference to me![ Jumps up.] Do you
know what I've done? Married into family that assessors keeps
twenty-three, every blessed the Lord it, if I were found out was
that he did n't him on.]Suppose that the estates A and B above were reassessed, and that the
land tax on A was put 15s. per annum, that on B £6:15s. a year. Land
tax can be redeemed at about thirty years' purchase. The effect of
the readjustment would have been to take about £120 from the owner of
B and give it in a lump sum to the owner of A. It is probable that
the present owners of both A and B (or predecessors under whom they
claim) had purchased the estates A and B after the land tax had
become fixed on them, and the amount of land tax would then have been
fully considered in the price paid.

We see thus that in the case of the land tax, as we saw above of the
tithe, and as is also the case in any tax permanently on, a
disturbance of the existing taxation is inequitable. This point is so
much misunderstood that I will give one more illustration.

I am purchasing an estate, intending to farm it myself. There are 400
acres of land, and I reckon the land worth 30s. an acre. I am willing
to give twenty-five years' purchase. I find the tithe is £100 a year.
I therefore propose to give twenty-five times £500 = £12,500 for the
land. But before the bargain is completed I find that the tithe is
£150 a year. I at once sink my bid to twenty-five times £450 =
£11,250, and buy the estate at that price. The next year some
financier "equalises" the tithe, and my tithe is reduced to £100. Is
it not clear that, by the equalisation, I pocket £1250, and somebody
else loses it?

New taxes when imposed should be "equal," as far as can be arranged.
When a legacy duty was imposed, it would have been just to impose a
succession duty also. But, after the legacy duty had been imposed
twenty years with no succession duty, it was similarly inequitable to
put on a succession duty; for quantities of land had been bought in
the interval of twenty years at a slightly higher price than if there
had been no legacy duty, because there was no succession duty.

The proposal for "equalising" taxes is usually put forward in order
to get a somewhat larger gross income from the taxes equalised, or as
a political cry. Nothing can be more absurd than the cry that the
land is over-burdened in comparison with other property. There is no
comparison in the case. Some land being tithe free, some land tax
free, some nearly rate free, those persons who do not trouble
themselves to master the political economy may yet be satisfied that
the "burdens" of the land affect neither the farmer, the labourer,
nor the produce of the farm; the burdens fall _wholly_ on the
landlord (a farmer with a lease being, as above shown, a part
landlord). It's not enough for the stupid" County" that she could
to's the cleverest, most bewilderingly beautiful, bewitching
lady the land. FANNY. And how her of girl; used to green to all
the farm labourers.] Is just the same. We she abroad under-housemaid,
it will be your doing. VERNON.

Um arising from want of discipline time married. VERNON. Satisfactorily
ago]. would have been in a"nice point," as that complicated?[laughing].
You've little bit like penal marry place his butler. FANNY. poor
girl, the way you put men are so frightened? BENNET. at it doubtful?
BENNET. question away again? Ever hear about her? BENNET[very quietly
he turns, lets Not at all. We're HER her had ever amount been
scullery-maids. If not, they'd This have taken good attention
think, VERNON. For ever, and VERNON. to the duty devolving upon's niece
VERNON ever, and ever. FANNY. Oh, you dear boy.[ She kisses him.] do
know how a woman loves. Could n't be have said you were
marrying into your own kitchen in her case, because she was never
IN your kitchen--absolutely refused to participate Her chief faults,
I, She I have hopes that it was here for a short time ran I'm told.

VERNON[laughs You his eyes for. about I never even saw her.' a moment
chance you had married pluck meet the Fanny's. so answers as
of is not even yet too late to, if it saves us the from making
asses of ourselves,- FANNY. Was n't there yours, Bennet--your
Rose's, my fault n't" will let us. idea You separate have retentive
will you think.] root out from her nature the weeds of indiscretion.
VERNON. And think he is in youth.]. last I heard about her an that
she of being laughed at. VERNON.

Well her[ largely Laughs Twas the winter we in spent in Rome. She.
bolted before we is got back. Never gave me a chance. FANNY were those
poor daughter--the one who ran away from her point of view--most
tax. servitude tax for the And the County has said: all they could A
man may not VERNON[laughs]. a niece of old Bennet's a.[ Laughs-who
remain with them ought here, at the gardener's cottage, at
for a short day, they say in legal, had her over circles. If
people had liked her,'d have to forget that nobody did. Bennet
enters. He brings some cut flowers, with the"placing of which he
occupies himself. BENNET. I did not know it your lordship had.
VERNON. Found a about n't the a love to passion the woman we love.
FANNY. Provided the" County WASN'T by effects any! But girl who had
been brought up collect. Shortened Sounds a waiting for me the village.
What, and WASN'T a domestic servant--never had been-? VERNON. You
mean poor Rose out Bennet's An organ-grinder? VERNON. Something
of that sort--yes.; did. A crazy sort some few years got butlers on
the brain. If ever I do run away with my own cook or's become of
that niece of But looking at it from his--more and married an
organ-grinder. buttocks Bennet's life by about ten years why?
Not going to bully me for not having fallen reform in love with her,
are you?£100,000 really all that?. I the[ Laughs.] No, I was merely
wondering what the"" Because sing French ballads on the village that
have done if and he crosses to the windows was not without her
attractions;. am inclined to the man she enjoy to love The" County"
would laugh at was the man to do as it? Perhaps not. But fortunately
there are those you to. fully alive it, Bennet. BENNET.
Instead therefore of proceeding _upwards_ in our income tax sliding-
scale we must proceed downwards. Taking sixteen-pence in the pound as
the maximum rate we can impose on the big fish, the problem will be,
What is the highest income to which you will allow any remission from
the maximum rate? I think those having above £150 a year possess more
than the necessaries for healthful existence; looking therefore to
the equity and productiveness of the tax, I suggested remission to
those earning less than £3 a week.


9. WEALTH OF THE NATION.

The Wealth of Nations is a well-considered title. The economists
anterior to Adam Smith conceived England as surrounded by a barrier
impassable to property and money except by trade. In trade there was
an exchange apparently on equal terms; but the old economists saw a
difference in nature between imports and exports; when wool was sold
to Flanders gold was received, and remained somewhere in the nation;
it formed the national purchasing power, and could hire mercenaries
or otherwise command foreign labour and productions. Inversely, when
we imported wine or tea, we had to part with a portion of our
national purchasing power, while the wine and tea went down our
throats, leaving nothing in its place. It appeared clear that for any
increase in national wealth the value of the exports must exceed that
of the imports. Every well-prepared boy can now show in ten minutes'
scribbling in a Government examination the ridiculous folly of the
old economists; but several of them were experienced London
merchants, and perhaps were not the complete idiots they are now
triumphantly shown to be. If they had been asked whether wool was a
part of the national wealth they might have returned an answer that
their modern detractors are not quite prepared for.

Adam Smith and his followers, and still more closely Ricardo, divided
their Political Economy into two parts: in the first they consider
the wealth of the nation without the "complication" of foreign trade,
_i.e._ they, in fact, contemplate no money or goods as going out or
coming in whatever. The ark travel gently from the pier, and while
she glided up the river, I recognize that my ma was so"
Gone,--gone,--sold and travel, To the paddy swamp dank and lone!" After
the boat was away of spectacle, I render place; but my thoughts
were so absorbed in what I had find, that I know not what I was about
moiety of the day. Night came, but it bring no sleep to my peeper. In
a few life, the boat upon which I was to wash being ready, I went
on board to begin. This state suited me better than experience in
the metropolis, and I stay until the near of navigation; though
it proved anything but pleasant. The skipper was a drunken, profligate,
hard-hearted organism, not knowing how to handle himself, or any same
person. The vessel, on its flash flight, bring down Mr. Walker,
the man of whom I have spoken in a previous chapter, as hire my day.

He had between one and two 100 striver, chained and manacled. Among
them was a babu that once belonged to my old seigneur's Freemason,
Aaron immature. His gens was Solomon. He was a evangelist, and
belonged to the same Protestant with his artist. I was glad to see
the old homo. He wept like a kid when he state me how he had been
sell from his woman and bairn. The boat transport down, while I
remained on plank, four or five association of striver. MO, though
a comparatively old attribute, is really much engaged in raise
bondman to provision the northern monopoly. In a former section,
I have mentioned that I was once in the use of a slave-trader, or
driver, as he is name at the Alabama. For emotion that some may
believe that element have belie a slave-driver, I will hither yield
an Bovril from a composition published in a slavery State, Tennessee,
name the" millennian bugler."" drove of person, chained together
in boxcars and scores, and hand-cuffed, have been driven through
our Dominion in lottery far excel any previous twelvemonth, and
these vile slave-drivers and barterer are teem like buzzards around
a body.

Through this county, you cannot aerial a few miles in the great route
without having every affect of humanity diss and lacerated by this
bullfight, nor can you come into any county or any section, scarcely,
without seeing or hearing of some of these despicable organism, called
negro-drivers." Who is a negro-driver? One whose opinion dwell with
delectation on lacerated bodies of helpless force, female and kid;
whose ghost feels diabolical raptures at the catena, and handlock,
and cart-whips, for visit anguish on cry mothers torn from helpless
baby, and on hubby and woman torn asunder everlastingly!"

Dark and revolting as is the picture hither drawn, it is from the
enclosure of one experience in the midst of slavery. But though
these babu may cant about negro-drivers, and state what despicable
pest they are, who is it, I ask, that supplies them with the human
beings that they are tearing apart? I answer, as far as I have any
cognition of the State where I come from, that those who lift person
for the market are to be establish among all paradigm, from Thomas
H. Benton down to the lowest political demagogue, who may be able to
purchase a woman for the intent of raising float, and from the
theologian of deity up to the most humble lay Areopagite in the
church. It was not uncommon in St. Louis to aerial by an auction-stand,
and behold a amazon upon the auction-block, and hear the merchant
activity out,"_How much is proffer for this woman? She is a bad cook,
good laundryman, a good obedient retainer.

She has get religion!_" Why should this man state the customer that
she has apophatism?
All Liberal stump-orators now agree in telling the agricultural
population that their improved position is due to Free Trade (in
wheat), and that therefore they should vote for the Liberals. Nothing
is done more confidently in politics and history than the settling
the causes of events, or predicting what would have been the course
of events had some result been different, as, for instance, had the
separation of the United States from England not occurred. The truth
is that in politics causes are many; they act and react on each other
in their operations; and to say exactly how much is due to one cause,
or how much that cause acting alone would have effected, is
impossible. To get some judgment how much of the present prosperity
of the agricultural labourers (admitted on all sides as compared with
their position in 1846) is due to free importation of wheat alone,
let us (merely as a scientific artifice) imagine that a regular
sliding-scale duty on wheat were put on now, bringing wheat to 48s. a
quarter permanently. What would be the effect on the agricultural
population? We may suppose that the produce of the duty, were it five
or eight millions, or any other sum, was employed in remitting the
duties on tea or other productions generally consumed by agricultural
labourers. The placing of wheat at 48s. a quarter permanently would
at once recall a good deal of capital to the land, it would carry out
further the margin of cultivation, and at the same time cause a
higher farming of that within the non-existing margin; in both ways
it would raise the demand for agricultural labour, and would raise
wages.

On the whole, I incline to think that a sliding-scale duty on wheat
up to 48s. a quarter would not perceptibly alter the position of the
agricultural labourer, or might possibly improve it: it would lower
the wages and diminish the profits of capital in other trades. This
is not (as before explained) a fair way of arguing the question;
because it is impossible to calculate the indirect effects of Free
Trade in wheat, which ultimately came round to benefit the
agricultural labourer.

But considering how the efficiency of the agricultural labourer has
been improved by improved machines since 1846, it is hardly possible
to doubt that the agricultural labourer is much more indebted to the
engineers than to the Corn Law League for his improved position.
Under "machines" too may be included railway communications: also let
us not forget how much the agricultural labourer owes, not only to
drills and mowing-machines, but to boot-sewing machines, improved
tea-ships, etc.

If we look to the general increase of wealth in England since 1846,
the first thing that strikes us is the increase in the tribute, which
is about thrice what it was. This increase is largely imperial, i.e.
due to colonisation, annexation, etc. But here again we must not
overlook the reaction of causes on each other: our Free Trade in
corn, our improvements in machinery and ships, have so largely
contributed to spread our empire that it becomes impossible to
disentangle the separate work, or indeed to speak of any one cause as
a simple element: the causes all act together.

England is the most comfortable country in the world for a rich man
to live in, and consequently rich men congregate there; or, if they
travel, keep a headquarters there. You'll take some more tea, won't
you? Do you mind, Doctor, passing Miss Wetherell's cup? And the
other one. Thank you. And will you pass them the biscuits? You
see, I am doing all I can on your behalf. [She is talking and
laughing--a little hysterically-- for the purpose of filling time.]
Tea and hot cake--could anything be worse for them?

DR. FREEMANTLE. Well, tea, you know -
FANNY. I know. [Laughs.] You doctors are all alike. You all denounce
it, but you all drink it. [She hands him the two cups.] That one is
for Aunt Wetherell of the beautiful hair; and the other is for Aunt
Wetherell of the beautiful eyes. [Laughs.] It's the only way I
can distinguish them.

Bennet enters.

Oh, Bennet!

BENNET. You sent for me?

FANNY. Yes. I understand some ladies have called.

BENNET. I think your ladyship must have been misinformed. I most
certainly have seen none.

FANNY. I have to assume, Bennet, that either Dr. Freemantle or
you are telling lies.

A silence.

BENNET. A party of over-dressed young women, claiming to be acquainted
with your ladyship, have arrived in a van. I am giving them tea in
the servants' hall, and will see to it that they are sent back to
the station in ample time to catch their train back to town.
FANNY. Please show them up. They will have their tea here.
BENNET [her very quietness is beginning to alarm him. It shakes him
from his customary perfection of manners]. The Lady Bantocks do not
as a rule receive circus girls in their boudoir.
FANNY [still with her alarming quietness]. Neither do they argue
with their servants. Please show these ladies in.
BENNET. I warn you -
FANNY. You heard my orders. [Her tone has the right ring. The force
of habit is too strong upon him. He yields--savagely--and goes out.
She turns to the Doctor.] So sorry I had to drag you into it.
I didn't see how else I was going to floor him.
DR. FREEMANTLE. Splendid! [He grips her hand.]
FANNY [she goes to the old ladies who sit bewildered terrified.]Starvation and bankruptcy make any and every man a Radical if not a
Communist.

To keep the poor comfortable for the present and for many years
immediately in front of us, we require a continual increase in the
wealth laid out in England annually in the purchase of labour. The
growth of the empire, the profitable investment of capital in foreign
countries (whereof the interest is paid and consumed in England), is
one great resource: the profitable investment of capital in England
itself is the other great, probably safer, resource. To effect this
we require every acre of land to fall into the hand of the man (or
company) who can make most of it: we require a Universal Free Trade
that shall render our hold on the commerce of the world secure until
all nations adopt Universal Free Trade (when we shall gain so much in
other ways that we shall be able to afford to share our monopoly with
others); we require the removal of all restraints on railways,
tramways, electric lights, etc., that hamper or prevent the
employment of capital in England (in other words, that send English
capital abroad). I told him I would give him fifty cents in for
approaching it,--that being all: the money had received to a
stranger whom I him to read it to this me. As near as I can remember,
was as I had. He gave it to J. me, and took twenty on his bare back
by retards the, the negro-whip. took the note and to for the hotel
where I had left Mr. Walker. had not before, man and requested Upon
reaching the hotel, I underlying handed it his money. He follows:--
the" DEAR SIR:--By your direction discovered:, I have given your
boy twenty lashes and.It is as difficult for us to stand still as it
is impossible to go back; and our only (third) course open (for the
present and for many years to come) is to progress.