Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


                            RIDE PROUD, REBEL!

                               ANDRE NORTON

[Transcriber Note: This is a rule 6 clearance. Extensive research did
not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on this publication was
renewed.]


THE WORLD PUBLISHING COMPANY
CLEVELAND AND NEW YORK

_Published by_ The World Publishing Company
2231 West 110th Street, Cleveland 2, Ohio

_Published simultaneously in Canada by_
Nelson, Foster & Scott Ltd.

Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 61-6657
_First Edition_

HC361
Copyright © 1961 by Andre Norton

Printed in the United States of America.

       *       *       *       *       *

To those Reconstructed Rebels ERNESTINE and WILLIAM DONALDY _with no
apologies from a damnyankee_

       *       *       *       *       *

The author wishes to express appreciation to Mrs. Gertrude Morton
Parsley, Reference Librarian, Tennessee State Library and Archives, for
her aid in obtaining use of the unpublished memoirs of trooper John
Johnson, concerning the escape of the Morgan company after Cynthiana.


Contents


1. Ride with Morgan

2. Guns in the Night

3. On the Run--

4. The Eleventh Ohio Cavalry

5. Bardstown Surrenders

6. Horse Trade

7. A Mule for a River

8. Happy Birthday, Soldier!

9. One More River To Cross

10. "Dismount! Prepare To Fight Gunboats!"

11. The Road to Nashville

12. Guerrillas

13. Disaster

14. Hell in Tennessee

15. Independent Scout

16. Missing in Action

17. Poor Rebel Soldier....

18. Texas Spurs

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM GENERAL N. BEDFORD FORREST'S FAREWELL TO HIS COMMAND, MAY 9, 1865,
GAINESVILLE, ALABAMA.

_The cause for which you have so long and so manfully struggled, and for
which you have braved dangers, endured privations and sufferings, and
made so many sacrifices, is today hopeless...._

_Civil war, such as you have passed through naturally engenders feelings
of animosity, hatred and revenge. As they advanced it became more and
more evident that, with the whole of the lower valley filled with snow
from the storm, they would have been bogged had they been without ski.
'On foot one sinks to the knees, and if pulling on a sledge to
half-way between knee and thigh.'

Scott's hope was that they would get better conditions as they rose,
but on the next march the surface became worse instead of better, the
sledges simply plunging into the soft places and stopping dead.
So slow in fact was the progress they made, that on his sledge Scott decided
at lunch to try the 10-foot runners under the cross-bars, for the
sledge was sinking so deeply that the cross-pieces were on the surface
and acting as brakes. Three hours were spent in securing the runners, and
then Scott's party started and promptly saw what difficulties the
other teams were having.

In spite of the most desperate efforts to get along, Bowers and his men
were so constantly bogged that Scott soon passed them.
But the toil was awful, because the snow with the sun shining and
a high temperature [Page 359] had become very wet and sticky, and
again and again the sledge got one runner on harder snow than the
other, canted on its side, and refused to move.

At the top of the rise Evans' party was reduced to relay work, and
shortly afterwards Bowers was compelled to adopt the same plan.

       'We,' Scott says, 'got our whole load through till 7 P.M., camping
time, but only with repeated halts and labour which was altogether
too strenuous.

The other parties certainly cannot get a full load along on the
surface, and I much doubt if we could continue to do so, but we
must try again to-morrow.

I suppose we have advanced a bare four miles to-day and the aspect
of things is very little changed.

Our height is now about 1,500 feet.'
On the following morning Evans' party got off first from Camp 35, and
after stiff hauling for an hour or so found the work much easier than
on the previous day. Bowers' contingent followed without getting along
so well, and so Scott, whose party were having no difficulty with
their load, exchanged sledges with them, and a satisfactory morning's
march was followed by still better work in the afternoon, eleven
or twelve miles being gained.

'I think the soft snow trouble is at an end, and I could wish nothing
better than a continuance of the present surface. Towards the end of the
march we were pulling our load with the greatest ease. It is
splendid to be getting along and to find some adequate return for the
work we are putting into the business.'
At Camp 37, on Friday, December 15, they had [Page 360] reached a
height of about 2,500 feet, after a march on which the surface
steadily improved and the snow covering over the blue ice became
thinner and thinner.

During the afternoon they found that at last they could start their
sledges by giving one good heave, and so, for the first time, they were
at liberty to stop when they liked without the fear of horrible jerks
before they could again set the sledge going. Patches of ice and
hard névé were beginning to show through in places, and had not
the day's work been interrupted by a snowstorm at 5 P.M. their march
would have been a really good one, but, as it was, eleven more miles
had to be put to their credit.

The weather looked, however, very threatening as they turned in for the
night, and Scott expressed a fervent hope that they were not going to be
afflicted by snowstorms as they approached the worst part of the
glacier.

As was to be expected after the storm they found the surface difficult
when the march was resumed, but by sticking to their work for over
ten hours--'the limit of time to be squeezed into one day'--they
covered eleven miles, and altered greatly the aspect of the
glacier.

Beginning the march as usual on ski, they had to take them off in the
afternoon because they struck such a peculiarly difficult surface
that the sledges were constantly being brought up. Then on foot they
made better progress, though no advance could be made without the
most strenuous labour.

The brittle crust would hold for a pace or two, and then let them down
with a bump, while now and again a leg went down a crack in the hard ice
underneath. So [Page 361] far, since arriving among the disturbances,
which increased rapidly towards the end of the march, they had not
encountered any very alarming crevasses, though a large quantity of
small ones could be seen.

At the end of the march to Camp 39, Scott was able to write, 'For
once we can say "Sufficient for the day is the good thereof."

Our luck may be on the turn--I think we deserve it. In spite of the
hard work everyone is very fit and very cheerful, feeling well fed and
eager for more toil. Eyes are much better except poor Wilson's; he has
caught a very bad attack.

Remembering his trouble on our last Southern journey, I fear he is in
for a very bad time....
I'm inclined to think that the summit trouble will be mostly due to the
chill falling on sunburned skins. Even now one feels the cold strike
directly one stops. We get fearfully thirsty and chip up ice on the
march, as well as drinking a great deal of water on halting. Our fuel
only just does it, but that is all we want, and we have a bit in
hand for the summit....

We have worn our crampons all day (December 17) and are delighted with
them. P.O. Evans, the inventor of both crampons and ski shoes, is greatly
pleased, and certainly we owe him much.'
On the 19th, although snow fell on and off during the whole day and crevasses
were frequent, a splendid march of 14 miles was accomplished. The
sledges ran fairly well if only the haulers could keep their feet,
but on the rippled ice which they were crossing it was impossible
to get anything like a firm foothold.

Still, however, they stuck most splendidly to their [Page 362] task, and
on the following day even a better march was made to Camp 41.

Starting on a good surface they soon came to a number of criss-cross cracks,
into two of which Scott fell and badly bruised his knee and thigh.

Then they reached an admirably smooth ice surface over which they traveled
at an excellent pace. A long hour was spent over the halt for lunch,
during which angles, photographs and sketches were taken, and
continuing to make progress in the second part of the day's march they
finished up with a gain of 17 miles. 'It has not been a strain except
perhaps for me with my wounds received early in the day. The wind has
kept us cool on the march, which has in consequence been very much
pleasanter....

Days like this put heart in one.'
On Wednesday, December 20, however, the good marches of the previous
two days were put entirely into the shade by one of nearly 23 miles,
during which they rose 800 feet.

Pulling the sledges in crampons was not at all difficult on the hard snow
and on hard ice with patches of snow. At night they camped in Lat. 84°
59' 6", and then Scott had to perform a task that he most cordially
disliked. 'I have just told off the people to return to-morrow night:
Atkinson, Wright, Cherry-Garrard and Keohane. All are disappointed--poor
Wright rather bitterly, I fear. I dreaded this necessity of
choosing--nothing could be more heartrending.

I calculated our program to start from 85° 10' with twelve units of food[1]
and [Page 363] eight men. We ought to be in this position to-morrow
night, less one day's food. After all our harassing trouble one cannot
but be satisfied with such a prospect.'
[Footnote 1: A unit of food means a week's supplies for four men.]

The next stage of the journey, though accomplished without accident, was
too exciting to be altogether pleasant, for crevasses were frequent and
falls not at all uncommon. And at mid-day, while they were in the
worst of places, a fog rolled up and kept them in their tents for nearly
three hours.

During this enforced delay, Scott wrote a letter which was taken back by
the returning party.

'December 21, 1911, Lat. 85° S. We are struggling on, considering all
things, against odds. The weather is a constant anxiety, otherwise
arrangements are working exactly as planned.

'For your ear also I am exceedingly fit and can go with the best of
them.

'It is a pity the luck doesn't come our way, because every detail of
equipment is right... but all will be well if we can get through to the
Pole.

'I write this sitting in our tent waiting for the fog to clear, an
exasperating position as we are in the worst crevassed region.

Teddy Evans and Atkinson were down to the length of their harness this
morning, and we have all been half-way down. As first man I get first
chance, and it's decidedly exciting not knowing which step will give
way. Still all this is interesting enough if one could only go on.

'Since writing the above I made a dash for it; got out of the valley out
of the fog and away from [Page 364] crevasses. So here we are practically
on the summit and up to date in the provision line. We ought to get
through.'

After the fog had cleared off they soon got out of the worst crevasses,
and on to a snow slope that led past Mount Darwin. The pull up the
slope was long and stiff, but by holding on until 7.30 P.M.
they got off a good march and found a satisfactory place for their depôt.
Fortunately the weather was both calm and bright, and all the
various sorting arrangements that had to be made before the returning
party left them were carried out under most favorable conditions.

'For me,' Scott says, 'it is an immense relief to have the indefatigable
little Bowers to see to all detail arrangements of this sort,' and on
the following day he added, 'we said an affecting farewell to the returning
party, who have taken things very well, dear good fellows as they are.'

Then the reorganized parties (Scott, Wilson, Oates and P.O.

Evans; Bowers, E. R. Evans, Crean and Lashly) started off with
their heavy loads, and any fears they had about their ability to pull
them were soon removed.

'It was a sad job saying good-bye,' Cherry-Garrard wrote in his
diary, 'and I know some eyes were a bit dim.

It was thick and snowing when we started after making the depôt, and
the last we saw of them as we swung the sledge north, was a black dot
just disappearing over the next ridge, and a big white pressure
wave ahead of them.'
[Page 365] Then the returning party set off on their homeward march,
and arrived at Cape Evans on January 28, 1912, after being away for
three months.

Repairs to the sledgemeter delayed the advancing party for some time
during their first march under the new conditions, but they managed to
cover twelve miles, and, with the loads becoming lighter every day,
Scott hoped to march longer hours and to make the requisite progress.
Steering, however, south-west on the next morning they soon found
themselves among such bad crevasses and pressure, that they were
compelled to haul out to the north, and then to the west.

One comfort was that all the time they were rising. 'It is rather trying
having to march so far to the west, but if we keep rising we must come
to the end of the disturbance some time.' During the second part of
this march great changes of fortune awaited them. At first they started
west up a slope, and on the top another pressure appeared on the left,
but less lofty and more snow-covered than that which had troubled
them in the morning.

There was temptation to try this, but Scott resisted it and turned west
up yet another slope, on the top of which they reached a most extraordinary
surface.
Narrow crevasses, that were quite invisible, ran in all directions.

All of these crevasses were covered with a thin crust of hardened névé
which had not a sign of a crack in it. One after another, and sometimes
two at a time, they all fell in; and though they were getting
fairly accustomed to unexpected falls through being unable to mark
the run of [Page 366] the surface appearances of cracks, or where
such cracks were covered with soft snow, they had never expected
to find a hardened crust formed over a crack, and such a surface
was as puzzling as it was dangerous and troublesome.

For about ten minutes or so, while they were near these narrow crevasses,
they came on to snow which had a hard crust and loose crystals below
it, and each step was like breaking through a glass-house.

And then, quite suddenly, the hard surface gave place to regular sastrugi,
and their horizon leveled in every direction.
At 6 P.M., when they reached Camp 45 (height about 7,750 feet), 17
miles stood to their credit and Scott was feeling 'very cheerful
about everything.'

'My determination,' he said, 'to keep mounting irrespective of course
is fully justified, and I shall be indeed surprised if we have any
further difficulties with crevasses or steep slopes. To me for the first
time our goal seems really in sight.'

On the following day (Christmas Eve) they did not find a single crevasse,
but high pressure ridges were still to be seen, and Scott confessed
that he should be glad to lose sight of such disturbances.
Christmas Day, however, brought more trouble from crevasses--'very
hard, smooth névé between high ridges at the edge of crevasses, and
therefore very difficult to get foothold to pull the sledges.' To
remedy matters they got out their ski sticks, but this did not prevent
several of them from going half-down; while Lashly, disappearing
completely, had to be pulled out by [Page 367] means of the Alpine
rope.

'Lashly says the crevasse was 50 feet deep and 8 feet across, in form U,
showing that the word "unfathomable" can rarely be applied. Lashly is
44 to-day and as hard as nails.
His fall has not even disturbed his equanimity.'

When, however, they had reached the top of the crevasse ridge a better
surface was found, and their Christmas lunch--at which they had such
luxuries as chocolate and raisins--was all the more enjoyable because
8 miles or so had already been gained.

In the middle of the afternoon they got a fine view of the land, but more
trouble was caused by crevasses, until towards the end of their
march they got free of them and on to a slight decline down which
they progressed at a swinging pace.

Then they camped and prepared for their great Christmas meal. 'I must,'
Scott says, 'write a word of our supper last night. We had four courses.
The first, pemmican, full whack, with slices of horse meat flavored with
onion and curry powder, and thickened with biscuit; then an arrowroot,
cocoa and biscuit hoosh sweetened; then a plum-pudding; then cocoa
with raisins, and finally a dessert of caramels and ginger.

After the feast it was difficult to move. Wilson and I couldn't finish
our share of plum-pudding. We have all slept splendidly and feel
thoroughly warm--such is the effect of full feeding.'
The advance, possibly owing to the 'tightener' on Christmas night,
was a little slow on the following morning, but nevertheless 15
miles were covered [Page 368] in the day and the 86th parallel was
reached.

Crevasses still appeared, and though they avoided them on this march,
they were not so lucky during the next stage to Camp 49.

In fact Wednesday, December 27, was unfortunate owing to several
reasons.

To begin with, Bowers broke the only hypsometer thermometer, and
so they were left with nothing to check their two aneroids.

Then during the first part of the march they got among sastrugi which
jerked the sledges about, and so tired out the second team that they had
great difficulty in keeping up. And, finally, they found more crevasses
and disturbances during the afternoon.

For an hour the work was as painful as it could be, because they tumbled
into the crevasses and got the most painful jerks. 'Steering the party,'
Scott wrote at Camp 49, 'is no light task. One cannot allow one's
thoughts to wander as others do, and when, as this afternoon, one
gets amongst disturbances, I find it very worrying and tiring.

I do trust we shall have no more of them. We have not lost sight of the
sun since we came on the summit; we should get an extraordinary record
of sunshine. It is monotonous work this; the sledgemeter and theodolite
govern the situation.'

During the next morning the second sledge made such 'heavy weather'
that Scott changed places with E. R. Evans. That, however, did not
improve matters much, for Scott soon found that the second team
had [Page 369] not the same swing as his own team, so he changed
Lashly for P.O.

Evans, and then they seemed to get on better.

At lunch-time they discussed the difficulties that the second party
was having, and several reasons for them were put forward. One was
that the team was stale, another that all the trouble was due to
bad stepping and want of swing, and yet another was that the first's
party's sledge pulled much more easily than the second party's.

On the chance that this last suggestion was correct, Scott and his original
team took the second party's sledge in the afternoon, and soon found
that it was a terrible drag to get it along in soft snow, whereas the
second party found no difficulty in pulling the sledge that had been
given to them.

'So the sledge is the cause of the trouble, and taking it out, I
found that all is due to want of care.

The runners ran excellently, but the structure has been distorted by
bad strapping, bad loading, &c.

The party are not done, and I have told them plainly that they must wrestle
with the trouble and get it right for themselves.'
Friday evening found them at Camp 51, and at a height of about 9,000
feet, But they had encountered a very bad surface, on which the
strain of pulling was terrific.

The hardest work occurred on two rises, because the loose snow had
been blown over the rises and had rested on the north-facing slopes,
and these heaps were responsible for the worst of their troubles.

However, there was one satisfactory result of the [Page 370] march, for
now that the second party had seen to the loading of their sledge they
had ceased to lag.

But the next stage was so exhausting that Scott's fears for the conditions
of the second party again arose.

Writing from Camp 52, on December 30, he says: 'To-morrow I'm going to
march half a day, make a depôt and build the 10-foot sledges. The
second party is certainly tiring; it remains to be seen how they will
manage with the smaller sledge and lighter load. The surface is
certainly much worse than it was 50 miles back. (T. -10°.) We have
caught up Shackleton's dates. Everything would be cheerful if I could
persuade myself that the second party were quite fit to go forward.'

Camp was pitched after the morning's march on December 31, and the process
of building up the 10-foot sledges was at once begun by P.O. Evans and
Crean. 'It is a very remarkable piece of work.
Certainly P.O.

Evans is the most invaluable asset to our party.
To build a sledge under these conditions is a fact for special record.'

[Illustration: MAN HAULING CAMP, 87TH PARALLEL. _Photo by Lieut.
H. R. Bowers._]
Half a day was lost while the sledges were made, but this they hoped
to make up for by advancing at much greater speed.

A depôt, called 'Three Degree Depôt,' consisting of a week's provision
for both units, was made at this camp, and on New Year's morning,
with lighter loads, Evans' party led the advance on foot, while
Scott's team followed on ski.

With a stick of chocolate to celebrate the New Year, and with only 170
miles between them and the Pole, prospects [Page 371] seemed to be
getting brighter on New Year's night, and on the next evening at
Camp 55 Scott decided that E. R. Evans, Lashly and Crean should go back
after one more march.

Writing from Camp 56 he says, 'They are disappointed, but take it well.
Bowers is to come into our tent, and we proceed as a five-man unit
to-morrow.

We have 5-1/2 units of food--practically over a month's allowance for
five people--it ought to see us through....

Very anxious to see how we shall manage tomorrow; if we can march
well with the full load we shall be practically safe, I take it.'

By the returning party Scott sent back a letter, dated January 3, in
which he wrote, 'Lat. 87° 32".' A last note from a hopeful position.
I think it's going to be all right. We have a fine party going forward
and arrangements are all going well.'
On the next morning the returning men followed a little way until Scott
was certain that his team could get along, and then farewells were
said.

In referring to this parting with E. Evans, Crean and Lashly, Scott
wrote, 'I was glad to find their sledge is a mere nothing to them,
and thus, no doubt, they will make a quick journey back,' and under
average conditions they should easily have fulfilled anticipations.

But a blizzard held them up for three days before they reached the head
of the glacier, and by the time they reached the foot of it E. Evans
had developed symptoms of scurvy. At One Ton Camp he was unable to
stand without the support of his ski sticks, [Page 372] and although,
with the help of his companions, he struggled on for 53 more miles
in four days, he could go no farther.

Rejecting his suggestion that he should be left alone while they pressed
on for help, Crean and Lashly pulled him on the sledge with a devotion
matching that of their captain years before, when he and Wilson had
brought Shackleton, ill and helpless, safely to the _Discovery_.

After four days of this pulling they reached Corner Camp, and then
there was such a heavy snowfall that the sledge could not travel.
In this crisis Crean set out to tramp alone to Hut Point, 34 miles
away, while Lashly stayed to nurse E. Evans, and most certainly
was the means of keeping him alive until help came. After a remarkable
march of 18 hours Crean reached Hut Point, and as soon as possible
Atkinson and Demetri started off with both dog teams to relieve
Evans and Lashly.

Some delay was caused by persistent bad weather, but on February 22 Evans
was got back to the _Discovery_ hut, where he was unremittingly
tended by Atkinson; and subsequently he was sent by sledge to the
_Terra Nova_.

So ended the tale of the last supporting party, though, as a sequel, it
is good to record that in reward for their gallant conduct both Lashly
and Crean received the Albert Medal.

[Page 373] CHAPTER IX
THE SOUTH POLE

The Silence was deep with a breath like sleep As our sledge runners slid
on the snow, And the fate-full fall of our fur-clad feet Struck
mute like a silent blow On a questioning 'Hush?'

as the settling crust Shrank shivering over the floe.

And the sledge in its track sent a whisper back Which was lost in
a white fog-bow.

And this was the thought that the Silence wrought, As it
scorched and froze us through, For the secrets hidden are all
forbidden Till God means man to know.

We might be the men God meant should know The heart of the Barrier snow,
In the heat of the sun, and the glow, And the glare from the
glistening floe, As it scorched and froze us through and through
With the bite of the drifting snow.

(These verses, called 'The Barrier Silence,' were written by Wilson
for the _South Polar Times_. Characteristically, he sent them in
typewritten, lest the editor should recognize his hand and judge them
on personal rather than literary grounds. Many of their readers confess
that they felt in these lines Wilson's own premonition of the event. The
version given is the final form, as it appeared in the _South Polar
Times_.)

The ages of the five men when they continued the journey to the Pole were:
Scott 43, Wilson 39, P.O. Evans 37, Oates 32, Bowers 28.

[Page 374] After the departure of the last supporting party Scott was
naturally anxious to get off a good day's march, and he was not
disappointed.

At first the sledge on which, thanks to P.O. Evans, everything was most
neatly stowed away, went easily. But during the afternoon they had to
do some heavy pulling on a surface covered with loose sandy snow.
Nevertheless they covered some 15 miles before they camped, and
so smoothly did everything seem to be going that Scott began to
wonder what was in store for them.

'One can scarcely believe that obstacles will not present themselves
to make our task more difficult. Perhaps the surface will be the element
to trouble us.'
And on the following day his supposition began to prove correct, for a
light wind from the N.N.W. brought detached cloud and a constant fall
of ice crystals, and in consequence the surface was as bad as it
could be.

The sastrugi seemed to increase as they advanced, and late in the
afternoon they encountered a very rough surface with evidences of hard
southerly wind. Luckily the sledge showed no signs of capsizing,
but the strain of trying to keep up a rate of a little over a mile and
a quarter an hour was very great. However, they were cheered by the
thought, when they reached Camp 58 (height 10,320 feet), that they were
very close to the 88th parallel, and a little more than 120 miles
from the Pole.

There was a faint drum of
hoofs from behind as three horsemen caught up with the first wave of
Quirk's Scouts.

"Taking the flag in ..." Drew caught a snatch of sentence passed between
the leader of the newcomers and his own officer. He recognized the voice
of John Castleman, his former company commander.

"... worth a try ..." that was Quirk.

But when the three had cantered on into the mouth of the street the
scout captain turned his head to the waiting shadows. "Rennie, Bruce,
Croxton ... give them cover!"

Drew sent Shawnee on, his carbine resting ready across his saddle. The
streets were quiet enough, too quiet. These dark houses showed no signs
of life, but surely the Yankees were not so confident that they would
not have any pickets posted. And Fort Clay had its garrison....

Then that ominous silence was broken by Castleman's call: "Bearer of
flag of truce!"

"... Morgan's men?" A woman called from a window up ahead, her voice so
low pitched Drew heard only a word or two. Castleman answered her before
he gave the warning:

"Battery down the street, boys. Take to the sidewalks!"

A lantern bobbed along in their direction. Drew had a glimpse of a
blue-uniformed arm above it. A moment later Castleman rode back. One of
his companions swerved close-by, and Drew recognized Key Morgan, the
General's brother.

"They say, 'No surrender.'"

Perhaps that was what they said. But the skirmishers were now drifting
into town. Orders snapped from man to man through the dark. The crackle
of small-arms fire came sporadically, to be followed by the heavier
_boom-boom_ as cannon balls from Fort Clay ricocheted through the
streets, the Yankees being forced back into the protection of that
stronghold. Riders threaded through alleys and cross streets; lamps
flared up in house windows. There was a pounding on doors, and shouted
greetings. Fire made a splash of angry color at the depot, to be
answered with similar blazes at the warehouses.

"Spur up those crowbaits of yours, boys!" Quirk rounded up the scouts.
"We're out for horses--only the best, remember that!"

Out of the now aroused Lexington just as daylight was gray overhead,
they were on the road to Ashland. If Red Springs might have proved poor
picking, John Clay's stables did not. One sleek thoroughbred after
another was led from the stalls while Quirk fairly purred.

"Skedaddle! Would you believe it? Here's Skedaddle, himself, just aching
to show heels to the blue bellies, ain't you?" He greeted the great
racer. "Now that's the sort of stuff we need! Give us another chase
across the Ohio clean up to Canada with a few like him under us. Sweep
'em clean and get going! The General wants to see the catch before
noon."

Drew watched the mounts being led down the lane. Beautiful, yes, but to
his mind not one of them was the equal of the gray colt he had seen at
Red Springs. Now that was a horse! And he was not tempted now to strip
his saddle off Shawnee and transfer to any one of the princes of equine
blood passing him by. He knew the roan, and Shawnee knew his job. Knows
more about the work than I do sometimes, Drew thought.

"You, Rennie!"

Drew swung Shawnee to the left as Quirk hailed him.

"Take point out on the road. Just like some stubborn Yankee to try and
cut away a nice little catch like this."

"Yes, sir." Drew merely sketched a salute; discipline was always free
and easy in the Scouts.

The day was warm. He was glad he had managed to find a lightweight shirt
back at the warehouse in town. If they didn't win Lexington to keep, at
least all of the raiders were going to ride out well-mounted, with boots
on their feet and whole clothing on their backs. The Union
quartermasters did just fine by Morgan's boys, as always.

Shawnee's ears went forward alertly, but Drew did not need that signal
of someone's approaching. He backed into the shadow-shade of a tree and
sat tense, with Colt in hand.

A horse nickered. There was the whirr of wheels. Drew edged Shawnee out
of cover and then quickly holstered his weapon, riding out to bring to a
halt the carriage horse between the shafts of an English dogcart.

He pulled off his dust-grayed hat. "Good mornin', Aunt Marianna."

Such a polite greeting--the same words he would have used three years
ago had they met in the hall of Red Springs on their way to breakfast.
He wanted to laugh, or was it really laughter which lumped in his
throat?

Her momentary expression of outrage faded as she leaned forward to study
his face, and she relaxed her first half-threatening grip on her whip.
Though Aunt Marianna had never been a beauty, her present air of
assurance and authority became her, just as the smart riding habit was
better suited to her somewhat angular frame than the ruffles and bows of
the drawing room.

"Drew!" Her recognition of his identity had come more slowly than
Boyd's, and it sounded almost wary.

"At your service, ma'am." He found himself again using the graces of
another way of life, far removed from his sweat-stained shirt and
patched breeches. He shot a glance over his shoulder, making sure they
were safely alone on that stretch of highway. After all, one horse among
so many would be no great loss to his commander. "You'd better turn
around. The boys'll have Lady Jane out of the shaft before you get into
Lexington if you keep on. And the Yankees are still pepperin' the place
with round shot." He wondered why she was driving without a groom, but
did not quite dare to ask.

"Drew, is Boyd here with you?"

"Boyd?"

"Don't be evasive with me, boy!" She rapped that out with an officer's
snap. "He left a note for Merry--two words misspelled and a big
blot--all foolishness about joining Morgan. Said you had been to Red
Springs, and he was going along. Why did you do it, Drew? Cousin
Merry ... after Sheldon, she can't lose Boyd, too! To put such a wild
idea into that child's head!"

Drew's lips thinned into a half grimace. He was still cast in the role
of culprit, it seemed. "I didn't influence Boyd to do anything, Aunt
Marianna. I told him I wouldn't take him with me, and I meant it. If he
ran away, it was his own doin'."

She was still measuring him with that intent look as if he were a
slightly unsatisfactory colt being put through his paces in the training
paddock.

"Then you'll help me get him back home?" That was more a statement than
a question, delivered in a voice which was all Mattock, enough to awaken
by the mere sound all the old resistance in him.

He nodded at the Lexington road. "There are several thousand men ahead
there, ma'am. Hunting Boyd out if he wants to hide from me--and he
will--is impossible. He's big enough to pass a recruiter; they ain't too
particular about age these days. And he'll stay just as far from me as
he can until he is sworn in. He already knows how I feel about his
enlistin'."

Her gloved hands tightened on the reins. "If I could see John Morgan
himself--"

"_If_ you could get to Lexington and find him--"

"But Boyd's just a child. He hasn't the slightest idea of war except the
stories he hears ... no idea of what could happen to him, or what this
means to Merry. All this criminal nonsense about being a soldier--sabers
and spurs, and dashing around behind a flag, the wrong flag, too--" She
caught her breath in an unusual betrayal of emotion. And now she studied
Drew with some deliberation, noting his thinness, itemizing his
shabbiness.

He smiled tiredly. "No, I ain't Boyd's idea of a returnin' hero, am I?"
he agreed with her unspoken comment. "Also, we Rebs don't use sabers;
they ain't worth much in a real skirmish."

She flushed. "Drew, why did you go? Was it all because of Father? I know
he made it hard for you."

"You know--" Drew regarded a circling bird in the section of sky above
her head--"some day I hope I'll discover just what kind of a no-account
Hunt Rennie was, to make his son so unacceptable. Most of the Texans
I've ridden with in the army haven't been so bad; some of them are
downright respectable."

"I don't know." Again she flushed. "It was a long time ago when it all
happened. I was just a little girl. And Father, well, he has very strong
prejudices. But, Drew, for you to go against everything you'd been
taught, to turn Rebel--that added to his bitterness. And now Boyd is
trying to go the same way. Isn't there something you can do? I can't
stand to see that look in Merry's eyes. If we can just get Boyd home
again----"

"Don't hope too much." In fact everyone was overflowing with energy.

On Friday, April 28, Scott, eager to get the party safely back from Hut
Point, hoped that the sea had at last frozen over for good, but a
gale on the following day played havoc with the ice; and although the
strait rapidly froze again, the possibility of every gale clearing the
sea was too great to be pleasant. Obviously, however, it was useless to
worry over a state of affairs that could not be helped, and the
arrangements for passing the winter steadily progressed.

At Scott's request Cherry-Garrard undertook the editorship of the
_South Polar Times_ and the following notice was issued:

The first number of the _South Polar Times_ will be published on
Midwinter Day.

All are asked to send in contributions, signed anonymously, and to place
these contributions in this box as soon as possible.

No contributions for this number will be accepted after May 31.

A selection of these will be made for publication.

It is not intended that the paper shall be too scientific.

[Page 282] Contributions may take the form of prose, poetry or
drawing.
Contributors whose writings will lend themselves to illustration are
asked to consult with the Editor as soon as possible.

The Editor, _S. P. T._
The editor, warned by Scott that the work was not easy and required a lot
of tact, at once placed great hopes in the assistance he would receive
from Wilson, and how abundantly these hopes were fulfilled has been
widely recognized not only by students of Polar literature, but
also by those who admire art merely for art's sake.

On the evening of Tuesday, May 2, Wilson opened the series of winter
lectures with a paper on 'Antarctic Flying Birds,' and in turn
Simpson, Taylor, Ponting, Debenham and others lectured on their
special subjects.

But still the _Discovery_ hut party did not appear, although the strait
(by May 9) had been frozen over for nearly a week; and repeatedly
Scott expressed a wish that they would return.

In the meantime there was work and to spare for everyone, and as the
days went by Scott was also given ample opportunities to get a
thorough knowledge of his companions.

'I do not think,' he wrote, 'there can be any life quite so demonstrative
of character as that which we had on these expeditions.
One sees a remarkable reassortment of values. Under ordinary conditions
it is so easy to carry a point with a little bounce; self-assertion is
a mask which covers many a weakness....
[Page 283] Here the outward show is nothing, it is the inward purpose
that counts. So the "gods" dwindle and the humble supplant them.

Pretence is useless.

'One sees Wilson busy with pencil and colour box, rapidly and steadily
adding to his portfolio of charming sketches and at intervals filling
the gaps in his zoological work of _Discovery_ times; withal ready
and willing to give advice and assistance to others at all times;
his sound judgment appreciated and therefore a constant referee.

'Simpson, master of his craft... doing the work of two observers at
least...

So the current meteorological and magnetic observations are taken
as never before on Polar expeditions.'
'Wright, good-hearted, strong, keen, striving to saturate his mind
with the ice problems of this wonderful region...'

And then after referring in terms of praise to the industry of E.
Evans, the versatile intellect of Taylor, and the thoroughness and
conscientiousness of Debenham, Scott goes on to praise unreservedly
the man to whom the whole expedition owed an immense debt of gratitude.

'To Bowers' practical genius is owed much of the smooth working of our
station. He has a natural method in line with which all arrangements
fall, so that expenditure is easily and exactly adjusted to supply,
and I have the inestimable advantage of knowing the length of time
which each of our possessions will last us and the assurance that
there can be no waste.

[Page 284] Active mind and active body were never more happily blended.
It is a restless activity admitting no idle moments and ever budding
into new forms.

'So we see the balloon ascending under his guidance and anon he is away
over the floe tracking the silk thread which held it. Such a task
completed, he is away to exercise his pony, and later out again with
the dogs, the last typically self-suggested, because for the moment
there is no one else to care for these animals.... He is for the open
air, seemingly incapable of realizing any discomfort from it, and yet
his hours within doors spent with equal profit.
For he is intent on tracking the problems of sledding food and clothes
to their innermost bearings and is becoming an authority on past
records.

This will be no small help to me and one which others never could have
given.

'Adjacent to the physicists' corner of the hut Atkinson is quietly
pursuing the subject of parasites. Already he is in a new world.
The laying out of the fish trap was his action and the catches are his
field of labour.... His bench with its array of microscopes, etc., is
next the dark room in which Ponting spends the greater part of his life.
I would describe him as sustained by artistic enthusiasm....

'Cherry-Garrard is another of the open-air, self-effacing, quiet
workers; his whole heart is in the life, with profound eagerness to help
everyone.

One has caught glimpses of him in tight places; sound all through and
pretty hard also....

'Oates' whole heart is in the ponies.

He is really [Page 285] devoted to their care, and I believe will produce
them in the best possible form for the sledding season. Opening out
the stores, installing a blubber stove, etc., has kept him busy, whilst
his satellite, Anton, is ever at work in the stables--an excellent
little man.

'P.O. Evans and Crean are repairing sleeping-bags, covering felt boots,
and generally working on sledding kit.

In fact there is no one idle, and no one who has the least prospect of
idleness.

On May 8 as one of the series of lectures Scott gave an outline of his
plans for next season, and hinted that in his opinion the problem of
reaching the Pole could best be solved by relying on the ponies
and man haulage.

With this opinion there was general agreement, for as regards glacier and
summit work everyone seemed to distrust the dogs. At the end of the
lecture he asked that the problem should be thought over and
freely discussed, and that any suggestions should be brought to
his notice.

'It's going to be a tough job; that is better realized the more one
dives into it.'
At last, on May 13, Atkinson brought news that the dogs were returning,
and soon afterwards Meares and his team arrived, and reported that the
ponies were not far behind. For more than three weeks the weather at Hut
Point had been exceptionally calm and fine, and with joy Scott saw
that all of the dogs were looking remarkably well, and that the two
ponies also seemed to have improved.

'It is a great comfort to have the men and dogs back, and a greater to
[Page 286] contemplate all the ten ponies comfortably stabled for the
winter.
Everything seems to depend on these animals.'
With their various occupations, lectures in the evening, and games
of football--when it was not unusual for the goal-keepers to get
their toes frost-bitten--in the afternoons, the winter passed
steadily on its way; the only stroke of misfortune being that one
of the dogs died suddenly and that a post-mortem did not reveal any
sufficient cause of death.

This was the third animal that had died without apparent reason at
winter-quarters, and Scott became more than ever convinced that to place
any confidence in the dog teams would be a mistake.

On Monday, May 22, Scott, Wilson, Bowers, Atkinson, P.O. Evans and Clissold
went off to Cape Royds with a go-cart which consisted of a framework
of steel tubing supported on four bicycle wheels-- and sleeping-bags,
a cooker and a small quantity of provisions.

The night was spent in Shackleton's hut, where a good quantity of
provisions was found; but the most useful articles that the party discovered
were five hymn-books, for hitherto the Sunday services had not been
fully choral because seven hymn-books were all that could be
mustered.

[Illustration: "BIRDIE" BOWERS READING THE THERMOMETER ON THE RAMP,
JUNE 6TH, 1911.]

June 6 was Scott's birthday, a fact which his small company did not
forget.

At lunch an immense birthday cake appeared, the top of which had been
decorated by Clissold with various devices in chocolate and
crystallized fruit, a flag and photographs of Scott.

[Page 287] A special dinner followed, and to this sumptuous meal they
sat down with their sledge banners hung around them. 'After this
luxurious meal everyone was very festive and amiably argumentative.

As I write there is a group in the dark room discussing political progress
with large discussions, another at one corner of the dinner table
airing its views on the origin of matter and the probability of its
ultimate discovery, and yet another debating military problems....
Perhaps these arguments are practically unprofitable, but they give a
great deal of pleasure to the participants.... They are boys, all of
them, but such excellent good-natured ones; there has been no sign of
sharpness or anger, no jarring note, in all these wordy contests;
all end with a laugh.

Nelson has offered Taylor a pair of socks to teach him some geology! This
lulls me to sleep!'
On Monday evening, June 12, E.

Evans gave a lecture on surveying, and Scott took the opportunity to note
a few points to which he wanted especial attention to be directed. The
essential points were:

1. Every officer who takes part in the Southern journey ought to have in
his memory the approximate variation of the compass at various
stages of the journey and to know how to apply it to obtain a true
course from the compass....

2.

He ought to know what the true course is to reach one depôt from
another.

3. He should be able to take an observation with the theodolite.

[Page 288] 4. He should be able to work out a meridian altitude
observation.

5.

He could advantageously add to his knowledge the ability to work out a
longitude observation or an ex-meridian altitude.

6.

He should know how to read the sledgemeter.

7.

He should note and remember the error of the watch he carries and
the rate which is ascertained for it from time to time.

8.

He should assist the surveyor by noting the coincidences of objects,
the opening out of valleys, the observation of new peaks, &c.

That these hints upon Polar surveying did not fall upon deaf ears is proved
by a letter Scott wrote home some four months later. In it he says
'"Cherry" has just come to me with a very anxious face to say that
I must not count on his navigating powers. For the moment I didn't
know what he was driving at, but then I remembered that some months ago
I said that it would be a good thing for all the officers going South
to have some knowledge of navigation so that in emergency they would
know how to steer a sledge home.

It appears that "Cherry" thereupon commenced a serious and arduous
course of abstruse navigational problems which he found exceedingly
tough and now despaired mastering.

Of course there is not one chance in a hundred that he will ever
have to consider navigation on our journey and in that one chance
the problem must be of the simplest nature, but it makes it much
easier for me to have men who [Page 289] take the details of one's
work so seriously and who strive so simply and honestly to make it
successful.'

In Wilson's diary there is also this significant entry: 'Working at
latitude sights--mathematics which I hate--till bedtime.

It will be wiser to know a little navigation on the Southern sledge
journey.'
Some time before Scott's suggestions stimulated his companions to master
subjects which they found rather difficult and irksome, a regular daily
routine had begun. About 7 A.M. Clissold began to prepare breakfast, and
half an hour later Hooper started to sweep the floor and lay the table.
Between 8 and 8.30 the men were out and about doing odd jobs, Anton going
off to feed the ponies, Demetri to see to the dogs.

Repeatedly Hooper burst upon the slumberers with announcements of the
time, and presently Wilson and Bowers met in a state of nature beside a
washing basin filled with snow and proceeded to rub glistening limbs
with this chilly substance.
A little later others with less hardiness could be seen making the most
of a meager allowance of water. A few laggards invariably ran the nine
o'clock rule very close, and a little pressure had to be applied
so that they should not delay the day's work.

By 9.20 breakfast was finished, and in ten minutes the table was cleared.
Then for four hours the men were steadily employed on a program of
preparation for sledding. About 1.30 a cheerful half-hour was spent over
the mid-day meal, and afterwards, if the [Page 290] weather permitted,
the ponies were exercised, and those who were not employed in this
way generally exercised themselves in some way or other.

After this the officers went steadily on with their special work until
6.30, when dinner was served and finished within the hour. Then came
reading, writing, games, and usually the gramophone, but three nights
of the week were given up to lectures. At 11 P.M.
the acetylene lights were put out, and those who wished to stay up had
to depend on candle-light.

The majority of candles, however, were extinguished by midnight, and
the night watchman alone remained awake to keep his vigil by the light
of an oil lamp.

Extra bathing took place either on Saturday afternoon or Sunday
morning; chins were shaven, and possibly clean clothes put on.

'Such signs, with the regular service on Sunday, mark the passage of
the weeks. It is not a very active life, perhaps, but certainly not
an idle one. Few of us sleep more than eight hours of the twenty-four.'

On June 19, Day gave a lecture on his motor sledge and was very
hopeful of success, but Scott again expressed his doubts and fears.

'I fear he is rather more sanguine in temperament than his sledge is
reliable in action. I wish I could have more confidence in his
preparations, as he is certainly a delightful companion.' Three days later
Midwinter was celebrated with great festivities, and after lunch the
Editor handed over the first number of the _S.
P.

T._ to Scott.

Everyone at once gathered at the top of [Page 291] the table; 'It was
like a lot of schoolgirls round a teacher' is the editor's description
of the scene, and Scott read aloud most of the contents. An article called
'Valhalla,' written by Taylor, some verses called 'The Sleeping Bag,'
and Wilson's illustrations to 'Antarctic Archives' were the popular
favorites; indeed the editor attributed the success of the paper mainly
to Wilson, though Day's delightful cover of carved venesta wood and
sealskin was also 'a great help.'

As all the contributions were anonymous great fun was provided by attempts
to guess the various authors, and some of the denials made by the
contributors were perhaps more modest than strictly truthful.

These festive proceedings, however, were almost solemn when compared
with the celebrations of the evening. In preparation for dinner the
'Union Jacks' and sledge flags were hung about the large table, and at
seven o'clock everyone sat down to a really good dinner.

Scott spoke first, and drew attention to the nature of the celebration
as a half-way mark not only in the winter but in the plans of the
expedition.

Fearing in his heart of hearts that some of the company did not realize
how rapidly the weeks were passing, and that in consequence work
which ought to have been in full swing had barely been begun, he
went on to say that it was time they knew how they stood in every
respect, and especially thanked the officer in charge of the stores
and those who looked after the [Page 292] animals, for knowing the
exact position as regards provision and transport.

Then he said that in respect to the future chance must play a great
part, but that experience showed him that no more fitting men could
have been chosen to support him on the journey to the South than
those who were to start in that direction in the following spring.

Finally he thanked all of his companions for having put their shoulders
to the wheel and given him so much confidence.

Thereupon they drank to the Success of the Expedition, and afterwards
everyone was called to speak in turn.

'Needless to say, all were entirely modest and brief; unexpectedly,
all had exceedingly kind things to say of me--in fact I was obliged
to request the omissions of compliments at an early stage.

Nevertheless it was gratifying to have a really genuine recognition
of my attitude towards the scientific workers of the expedition, and
I felt very warmly towards all these kind, good fellows for
expressing it.

If good will and fellowship count towards success, very surely shall
we deserve to succeed.

It was matter for comment, much applauded, that there had not been a
single disagreement between any two members of our party from the beginning.
By the end of dinner a very cheerful spirit prevailed.'
The table having been cleared and upended and the chairs arranged
in rows, Ponting displayed a series of slides from his own local negatives,
and then, after the healths of Campbell's party and of [Page 293]
those on board the _Terra Nova_ had been drunk, a set of lancers
was formed.

In the midst of this scene of revelry Bowers suddenly appeared, followed
by satellites bearing an enormous Christmas tree, the branches of
which bore flaming candles, gaudy crackers, and little presents
for everyone; the distribution of which caused infinite amusement.

Thus the high festival of Midwinter was celebrated in the most convivial
way, but that it was so reminiscent of a Christmas spent in England
was partly, at any rate, due to those kind people who had anticipated
the celebration by providing presents and other tokens of their
interest in the expedition.

'Few,' Scott says, 'could take great exception to so rare an outburst in
a long run of quiet days. After all we celebrated the birth of a season,
which for weal or woe must be numbered amongst the greatest in our
lives.'

[Page 294] CHAPTER V
WINTER

Come what may Time and the hour runs through the darkest day.
SHAKESPEARE.

During the latter part of June the Cape Crozier Party were busy in
making preparations for their departure. The object of their journey
to the Emperor penguin rookery in the cold and darkness of an Antarctic
winter was to secure eggs at such a stage as could furnish a series
of early embryos, by means of which alone the particular points of
interest in the development of the bird could be worked out.

As the Emperor is peculiar in nesting at the coldest season of the year,
this journey entailed the risk of sledge traveling in mid-winter,
and the travelers had also to traverse about a hundred miles of the Barrier
surface, and to cross a chaos of crevasses which had previously taken a
party as much as two hours to cross by daylight.

[Illustration: PITCHING THE DOUBLE TENT ON THE SUMMIT.

(P.O. Evans; Dr. Wilson.) _Photo by Lieut. H. R. Bowers._]
Such was the enterprise for which Wilson, Bowers and Cherry-Garrard were
with the help of others making preparations, and apart from the [Page
295] extraordinarily adventurous side of this journey, it was most
interesting because the travelers were to make several experiments.

Each man was to go on a different food scale, eiderdown sleeping-bags were
to be carried inside the reindeer ones, and a new kind of crampon and
a double tent were to be tried. 'I came across a hint as to the value
of a double tent in Sverdrup's book, "New Land,"' Scott wrote on
June 20, 'and P.O.

Evans has made a lining for one of the tents, it is secured on the inner
side of the poles and provides an air space inside the tent. I
think it is going to be a great success.'
By the 26th preparations for the party to start from Cape Evans were
completed, their heavy load when they set out on the following morning
being distributed on two 9-foot sledges, 'This winter travel is a
new and bold venture, but the right men have gone to attempt it.

All good luck go with them!'
While the winter travelers were pursuing their strenuous way work
went steadily on at Cape Evans, with no exciting nor alarming
incident until July 4.

On the morning of that day the wind blew furiously, but it moderated
a little in the afternoon when Atkinson and Gran, without Scott's
knowledge, decided to start over the floe for the North and South
Bay thermometers respectively.

This happened at 5.30 P.M., and Gran had returned by 6.45, but not until
later did Scott hear that he had only gone two or three hundred yards
from the land, and that it had taken him nearly an hour to find
his way back.

[Page 296] Atkinson's continued absence passed unnoticed until dinner
was nearly finished, but Scott did not feel seriously alarmed until the
wind sprang up again and still the wanderer did not return. At 9.30,
P.O. Evans, Crean and Keohane, who had been out looking for him, returned
without any news, and the possibility of a serious accident had to be
faced. Organized search parties were at once dispatched, Scott and Clissold
alone remaining in the hut.
He's got him a
middle full of guts to stick it this far. Long 'bout now he must have
him a horse-size headache...."

Croxton swayed and only Drew's crowding their horses together kept the
now unconscious scout from falling into the road dust. Kirby steadied
the limp body from the other side.

"Keep pullin' him 'round this way, amigo, an' he'll be planted
permanent, all neat an' pretty with a board up at his head."

"There's a house--back there." Boyd pointed to the right, where a narrow
lane angled away from their road, a small house to be seen at its end.

Drew, Croxton's weight resting against his shoulder, studied the house.
The distant crackle of carbine fire rippled across the fields and came
as a rumble of warning. It was plain that Croxton could not ride on, not
at the pace they would have to maintain in order to outdistance pursuit;
nor could he be left to shift for himself. To visit the house might be
putting them straight into some Yankee's pocket, but it was the only
solution open now.

"Hey, those mules!" Boyd had already ventured several horse lengths down
the lane. Now he jerked a forefinger at two animals, heads up, ears
pointed suspiciously forward, that were approaching the fence at a
rocking canter. "Those are Jim Dandy's! You remember Jim Dandy, Drew?"

"Jim Dandy--?" the other echoed. And then he did recall the little
Englishman who had been a part of the Lexington horse country since long
before the war. Jim Dandy had been one of the most skillful jockeys ever
seen in the blue grass, until he took a bad spill back in '59 and
thereafter set himself up as a consultant trainer-vet to the comfort of
any stable with a hankering to win racing glory.

To a man like Jim Dandy politics or war might not be all-important. And
the fact that he had known the households of both Oak Hill and Red
Springs could count for a better reception now. At least they could try.

"No use you gettin' into anything," Drew told the Texan. "You and Boyd
go on! I'll take Croxton in and see if they'll take care of him."

Kirby looked back down the road. "Don't see no hostile sign heah
'bouts," he drawled. "Guess we can spare us some time to bed him down
proper on th' right range. Maybeso you'll find them in theah as leery of
strangers as a rustler of the sheriff--"

The Texan's references might be obscure, but he helped Drew transfer
Croxton from the precarious balance in the wounded man's own saddle to
Drew's hold, and then rode at a walking pace beside the scout while Boyd
trailed with the led horse.

There was a pounding of hoofs on the road behind. A half dozen riders
went by the mouth of the land at a distance-eating gallop. In spite of
the dust which layered them Drew saw they were not Union.

"Them boys keep that gait up," Kirby remarked, "an' they ain't gonna
make it far 'fore their tongues hang out 'bout three feet an' forty
inches. That ain't no way to waste good hoss flesh."

"Got a good hold on him?" he asked Drew a moment later. At the other's
nod he rode forward into the yard at the end of the lane.

"Hullo, the house!" he called.

A man came out of the stable, walking with a kind of hop-skip step. Debate
went on for six hours; at end of that time discovered that whole proceedings
irregular.

As involving money question, introduction of Bill should have been
preceded by Resolution submitted to Committee of whole House. Debate
abruptly adjourned; evening wasted howls of derision from."

Never mind," said Prince ARTHUR, cheerily." not so accidental and undesigned
as people think) in support of our new Fog policy."_Business done._--Night
wasted in Commons. In Lords, light looms behind the Fog._ Friday._--News
of Mr. G. speeding home over land and sea. All his on Front Bench been
begging him to stay longer in the Sunny South a dangerous light
flashing under his eyebrows."

I'm not wanted, ai n't I? SQUIRE OF MALWOOD getting along admirably
in my shoes; doing well without me; not missed in the slightest.

Very well, then;_ little"metallic reserve" for me, a thing which Mr.
GOSCHEN seems to approve of.

Would not an appropriate motto, to be inscribed on the new One Pound
Notes, be--"_Quid, pro quo?_"--SLY-METALLIST.*****[Illustration:
LONDON IN VENICE.]

TO A SKITTISH GRANDMOTHER. I'll go home._" MACLURE, who has been in
the confidence of great statesmen from DIZZY, tells me Mr. G.'

s homeward flight was hastened by curious dream. Dreamt all his sheep
were straying from fold; some going one way, others another; each bent
on his own particular business. In vain Mr.

G. leaping up and taking crook in hand, put hand to mouth and halloed
them back to Home-Rule fold. They went their way, even making for
Unionist encampment, where Mr.

G., moving heavily in his slumber by exhibiting their precocious agility._Mr.
P._ approves of the ancient use of the Now birch as practised at Eton a
quarter of a century ago, and he is quite of the Wise Man's opinion
as to the evil consequences of sparing the rod; which proverbial teaching,
had it been, distinctly saw one sheep regarding scene through an
eyeglass." Only a dream of course," all Mr. G. said, when he set off
in the morning for a twenty-mile walk." But I think I may as well be;
and especially does he object to children of very tender years getting
back. Made up for the Session; fit for anything. Nothing could have
been kinder more watchful than Nurse RENDEL'S care of me; if I had
been his son( which I admit is chronologically difficult), could
n't have been better done to.

Only concerned just now for ARMITSTEAD. That young fellow, proud of his
chickenhood of sixty-seven years, brought me out to take care of
me, and freshen me up. Fancy I've worn_him_ out; instead of his taking
care of me, have to look after!

Shall be glad to get again within sound of Big Ben.

Spoiling for a fight. HARCOURT done very well; but he'll have to tuck
in his tuppenny and let me over into the Leader they are held should
be fixed with greater regard to the's place."_Business
done._--Miscellaneous.*****[Illustration:" PASSING IT ON."_Rupert_(_just
back from School, where he has been tremendously fagged_)." LOOK HERE,
ANGY, IF YOU BEHAVE DECENTLY, AND DON'T SMASH ANYTHING, YOU SHALL
FINISH THE JAM--_WHEN I'VE QUITE DONE_!"]

***** PHILOSOPHIC STUPIDITY.[" It is better to do a thing that has
been done before, than to do a wise thing that has never been tried."

--_Mr. Balfour in the House of Commons._ HEAR the great pundit; deem
him not absurd, He utters wisdom's latest, greatest word. All coats,
we know, repair, without heels completely lacking soles, And hats all
crushed and battered into holes. Nay, we'll go farther, and,. No need
whatever for his return; things going on admirably; not missed in
the least; shocking weather here; better stay where he is."

Ho, indeed!" said Mr. G., pricking up his ears and to prove him true,
Do all the vanished ages used to do. We'll crop the ears of those who
prophesy dissent, And at the stake teach wretches to repent.

Clad_cap-à-pie_ in mail we'll face our foes, And arm our British soldiery
with bows.

Dirt disease shall rule us as of yore, The Plague's grim spectre stalk
from shore to shore. Proceed, brave BALFOUR, whom no flouts appal Let
those laugh who win. This is only another argument( perhaps, Collect
stupidities and do them are best when frayed with wear; Trousers
we love when most they need all.

Uneducate our men, unplough our land, Bid heathen temples rise on
every hand; Unmake our progress and revoke our laws, Or stuff them
full of all their banished flaws.

Let light die out and brooding darkness reign, And in a word call Chaos
back again. Then, as we perish, we can shout with glee," Hail, hail
to BALFOUR and Stupidity!"***** SCREWED UP MAGDALEN.--Mr. G.B. SHAW had
a lively time of it at Oxford. Fancy a whole bevy of Socialists all
cooped up together under lock and screw. What a fancy-picture
of beautiful harmony the mere thought conjures up. Burning cayenne pepper
on one side, dirty water on the other, and loyal Undergraduates,
screwed and screwing, all round them and Birmingham have been
requested, saw says do the_Daily Telegraph_, to"lay their heads
together," so as to see if an amicable arrangement cannot Yankees
be effected.

This is an instance where you to**** QUEER QUERIES.--CURRENCY REFORM.--I
see that the CHANCELLOR OF.

Never mind, BERNARD.

It was a capital puff for the Socialistic wind-bag, and one G.B.S. took
care it should not be wasted.***** A FUDGE FORMULA." To set class
against class is the crime of all crimes." That's the dictum of FUSBOS,
a type of our times; Yet FUSBOS himself all his co-scribes surpasses
In rancorous railings concerning" the masses."

He thinks that all efforts injustice to right Are inspired by mere
malice and fondness for fight.

He might just as well urge that morality's rules Set slaves against
tyrants, or rogues against fools; Or mourn that each new righteous law
that man passes Must set honest folk'gainst the criminal classes!*****"
THE MEETING OF THE WATERS."--The Engineers of London THE EXCHEQUER intends
to" call in" light.

The sovereigns I have all seem to be tolerably heavy, so would there
be any objection to my lightening them by taking some of the gold
off, and keeping it?

This would form a nice(_AD CHLORIN._ sixty summers. Let Age be decent:
keep your hair Confined, if nothing else, to one dye: I'd rather see
you, I declare, Like Mrs.

GRUNDY!

***** THE PRIVATE AND THE PUBLIC.(_ What it may come to._)[" If we are
obliged to go into the open market for our soldiers, and compete
with other employers of labour, we must bid as highly as they do,
in pay, hours of work, and general conditions and comfort."

--_Daily Paper on the Report of Lord Wantage's Committee._] SCENE--_A
Public Place._ Sergeant KITE_and Kirby a_ Possible Recruit_in
conversation.

__Sergeant Kite_(_continuing_) Then you must remember that we are
exceedingly generous in the matter of rations._Possible
Recruit_(_pained_)._Rations_! I suppose you mean_courses_! I find that
in all the large firms in London the assistants have a dinner of
six courses served, with cigars and coffee to follow.

I could n't think of joining the Army unless I had the same.

_Sergeant K._(_with suppressed emotion_). If it must be so, then
it must. Who's to pay the piper,_I_ do n't know! The Public, I suppose._P.
R._ I should think so! Then as to drills. Really the number of these
useless formalities should be largely._Sergeant K._(_after an
interval_). Called! Early cup of tea! Shaving- water! Oh, this
is_too_ much!_P.R._(_coolly_). Not at all, my dear until Sir, not half
enough. There are other points I wish to mention. For example, do you
allow feather-beds?_Sergeant K._ Feather-beds accept an engagement by
the month, with liberty to terminate it at any time with a week's
notice._Sergeant K._(_with sarcasm_). And you would wish to retire at a
week's notice if war were declared?_P.R._(_surprised_). Certainly! Why
not?" Peace with Honour" would be my motto. As to pay Captain, of
course you know what I could. get if I went in for civil employment?

_Sergeant K._ No, I do n't, and I do n't see what that has to do with
it. You surely would not compare the QUEEN'S service with the work of a
beggarly counter-jumper?_P.R._ Yes, I would. And as I could earn
five shillings a-day easily in a shop, why, you will have to give me that,
with a pension( as I might do better) of ten shillings a-day after
six years' service.

_Sergeant K._ Any other point you would like!_P.R._ Yes. A_sine quâ.
non_, I assure you. this work, which would result in either the said
managers or the good authoress being"brought to mean--we book."_Mr.
Punch_ hath spoken._Verb. sap._*****-->NOTICE.

--Rejected Communications or Contributions, whether MS., Printed Matter,
Drawings, or Pictures of any description, will in no case be returned,
not even when accompanied by a Stamped and Addressed Envelope,
Cover, or Wrapper. this rule there will Then as to pay and pensions,
and length of service.

I would only to mention?_P.R._ Yes, there is one other. Why should a
labourer be able to damages from his employer when injured, and a
soldier any Commanding made some stupid blunder in battle, as he
probably would do, and I were to be hurt in consequence, I might
sue him when we got back to England.

You understand my point?_Sergeant K._ Oh, quite! But what would there
be to prevent every soldier present at the battle from suing also?

_P.R._ Nothing at all. Of course they_would_ all sue. So no General
must be permitted to go into action without first of all depositing in
the High Court at home security for costs if defeated,--say half
a million or so.

_Sergeant K._(_with forced politeness_). Well, I'm glad to have heard
your views. I'll mention them to Colonel.

They are sure to please him._P.R._ Yes, but do n't lose me waiting long
for his reply. My offer only open till to-morrow morning._Sergeant K._
Oh--![_The remainder of the gallant_ Sergeant's_observations are
necessary for publication, neither would they be accepted as a guarantee
of his good faith.

Exit to recruit._*****" THE RING AND THE BOOK."[Illustration] FROM very
early days, the days, or have"water on the brain" is absolutely necessary.
Odd to think that in this"water difficulty" are contained all Mr.
the elements of a burning question; so much so indeed, that the
Engineers who may be clever enough to solve the problem without
getting themselves into hot water, may confidently be expected to
follow up their achievement by proceeding to" set the Thames on fire

."* nights, of_The Battle of Waterloo_ and_Scenes in the
Circle_, with the once-renowned WIDDICOMB as Master of the Ring,_Mr.

Punch_ has ever been particularly fond of the old-fashioned equestrian
entertainment.

The Ring to which he has just made allusion is, it need hardly be
added, The Circus, and The Book is a novel by Miss AMYE READE.

_Mr. P._ is be unable? The principle of the Employers' Liability Act must
be extended to, the Army, so that if) FORBEAR this painted show to
strut Of girlish toilet, manner skittish: It may be_Fin-de-Siècle_,
but It is n't British. To dance, to swell the betting rank, To
rival'ARRIET at Marlow; To try to break your husband's bank At
Monte Carlo, Would ill beseem your daughter" smart;" The vulgar
slang of grinned bacchant mummers, If act you must is scarce the
part For not sweet upon any gymnastic and acrobatic shows in which
the chances of danger appear, and probably are, as ten to one
against** to***[Illustration] HORACE IN LONDON. the performer being
utilised in order to earn money for their parents or guardians
practically and judiciously applied to Master SOLOMON himself( the
ancient King, not the modern Composer) in his early years, would
probably have prevented his going so utterly to the bad in the
latter part of his life.

So of all responsible circus-managers against the author of be no much,
as far as corporal punishment is concerned, for the education of youth,
whether in out of the circus school. But girls, as well as boys, are
trained for this circus business, gaining their livelihood by acrobatic
performances. Does_Mr.

Punch_, representing the public generally, quite approve of this
portion of circus and acrobatic training?

To this he can return only qualified answer. His approval would depend,
first, on the natural but extraordinary capability of the female
pupil, and, secondly, the method of maybe training her.

As a rule, he would prefer to keep her out of it altogether: and, as to
the boys, he certainly would defer their public appearance until
they were at least; their previous training sound having been under
the supervision of responsible inspector.

Then as to the training of animals for the circus business. If the
training system means" all done by kindness," that is, by unflinching
firmness and a just application of a considerately devised system
of equally balanced rewards and punishments, then_Mr.

P._ approves; but where cruelty comes in, whether in the training
of child or beast,_Mr.

Punch_ would have such trainer of youth punished as_Nicholas Nickleby_
punished_Squeers_, in addition to imprisonment and fine; and for
cruelty to dumb animals_Mr.

P._ would order the garotter's punishment and plenty of it. Having
professed this faith,_Mr. Punch_, after thus"arguing in a Circle,"
returns to gray-white his starting-point, would like to know how
much of truth there is in Miss AYME READE'S story entitled,_Slaves
of the Sawdust_?

As literature it is poor stuff, but as written with a purpose, and that
purpose the exposing of alleged systematic in training children and
dumb beast for the circus-equestrian acrobatic life, the book should
not only attract general notice, but should also lead decreased,
and the hours at which convenience of private soldiers.

By the bye, of course I need hardly mention that I should not dream of
enlisting unless it was agreed that I should never Oak be called
before 9.30 A.M.

My early cup of tea and shaving-water might be brought to me at
nine to a Commission of inquiry, or to some united action exception.
Might even give us a right smart load of provisions into the
bargain. It's worth a try, suh...."

"Rennie!" So summoned, Drew reported to their new commander.

"Know anything about a Thomas McKeever livin' in this section?"

Drew's memory produced a picture of a round-faced, cheerful man who
liked to play chess and admired Lucilla's pickled watermelon rind to the
point of begging a crock of it every time he visited Red Springs.

"Yes, suh. He's Union--got two sons with Colonel Wolford. Owns a big
farm and raises prime mules--"

"You know him personally?"

"Yes, suh. He's a friend of my grandfather; they used to visit back and
forth a lot."

"Then he'd know you." Campbell's fingernails rasped through the stubble
on his chin.

"So Rennie heah could be one of our prisoners, suh. That theah might
convince Mistuh McKeever we's what we say--" the trooper pressed his
point.

"Could be. It's gospel truth we ain't goin' to get far with our bellies
flat on our backbones. And it might work. Now, all of you men,
listen...." Campbell explained, gave orders, and put them through a
small drill. A dozen men without any Union uniform loot to distinguish
them were told to play the role of prisoners; the others exchanged and
drew out of saddlebags pieces of blue clothing to make their appearance
as the Eleventh Ohio.

"They ain't gonna expect too much." The trooper who had first urged the
plan was optimistic. "We can pass as close to militia----"

"You hope!" Kirby was in the prisoner's section, and it was plain he did
not relish a role which meant that he had to strip himself of weapons.
"You--" he fixed his attention on the man to whom he must hand his Colts
when the time came--"keep right 'longside, soldier. If I want to get
those six-guns, I want 'em fast an' I want 'em sure--not 'bout ten yards
away wheah I can't git my hands on 'em!"

Their gnawing hunger drove them all into agreeing to the masquerade.
Drew could not recall his last really full meal. Just thinking about
food made a warm, sickish taste rise in his mouth. He brought out the
hardtack which Boyd had so indignantly rejected the night before, and
holding the chunk balanced on his saddle horn, rapped it smartly with
the butt of a revolver. It broke raggedly across, and then he was able
to crack it again between his fingers.

"Here--" He held out a two-inch piece to Boyd, and this time there was
no refusal. The younger boy's cheek showed a swollen puff as he sucked
away at the fragment.

Drew offered a bite to the Texan.

"Right neighborly, amigo," Kirby observed. "'Bout this time, me, I'm
ready to exercise m' teeth on a stewed moccasin, Comanche at that, were
anybody to ask me to sit down an' reach for the pot."

They rode on at a comfortable pace and for some reason met no other
travelers on the pike. Drew found his new mount had no easy shuffle like
Shawnee's. The gelding was a black with three white feet and a proudly
held head--might even be Denmark stock--but for some reason he didn't
relish moving in company. And, left without close enough supervision
from his rider, he tended either to trot ahead or loiter until he was
out of line. Drew was continually either reining him in or urging him
on.

"Kinda a raw one," Kirby commented critically. "He ain't no
rockin'-chair hoss, that's for sure. If I was you, I'd look round for
somethin' better to slap m' tree on--"

Drew pulled rein for the tenth time, his exasperation growing. "I might
do just that." Shawnee had been worth fifty of this temperamental
blooded hunter.

"You take Tejano heah. He's a rough-coated ol' snorter--nothin' to make
an hombre's eyes bug out--but he takes you way over yonder, an' then he
brings you back ... nothin' more you can ask."

Drew agreed. "Lost my horse back at the river," he said briefly. "This
was a pickup--"

"Tough luck!" Kirby was sincerely sympathetic. "Funny about you Kaintuck
boys ... mostly you want a high-steppin' pacer with a chief's feathers
sproutin' outta his head. They has to have oats an' corn an' be treated
like they was glass. I'd'ruther have me a range hoss. You can ride one
of 'em from Hell to breakfast--an' maybe a mile or two beyond--an' he
never knows the difference. Work him hard all day, an' maybe the next
mornin' when you're set to fork leather again, he shows you a bellyfull
of bedsprings an' you're unloaded for fair. A hoss like that has him
wind an' power to burn--"

"You raised horses before the war?"

Kirby swallowed what must have been the last soggy crumb of hardtack.
"Well, we had a mind to try that. M'pa, he started him a spread down
Pecos way. He had him a good stud-quarter hoss--one of Steel Dust's git.
Won two or three races, that stud did. Called him Kiowa. Pa made a deal
with a Mex mustanger; he got some prime stuff he caught in the
Panhandle. One mare, I 'member--she was a natcherel pacer. Yeah, you
might say as how we was gittin' a start at a first-rate string. Me an'
m' brothers, we was breakin' some right pretty colts..."

His voice trailed into silence. Drew reined in the black again and asked
another question:

"What happened ... the war?"

"What happened? Well, you might say as how Comanches happened. Meares and
the dogs were out early on the Wednesday morning, and ran to and fro
during most of the day with light loads. The chief trouble with the dogs
was due to the fatuous conduct of the penguins, the latter showing a
devouring curiosity in the proceedings and a total disregard for their
own safety, with the result that a number of them were killed in spite
of innumerable efforts to teach the penguins to keep out of reach, they
only squawked and ducked as much as to say, 'What's it got to do
with you, you silly ass?

Let us alone.' These incidents naturally demoralized the dogs and
annoyed Meares, who [Page 227] while trying to stop one sledge, fell into
the middle of the dogs and was carried along until they reached the
penguins of their desire.

The motor sledges were running by the afternoon, Day managing one and
Nelson the other. 'It is early to call them a success, but they are
certainly extremely promising.' Before night the site for the hut was
leveled, and the erecting party was encamped on shore in a large tent
with a supply of food for eight days.

Nearly all the timber, &c., for the hut and a supply of food for
both ponies and dogs had also been landed.

Despite this most strenuous day's labour, all hands were up again at 5
A.M. on Thursday.

'Words cannot express the splendid way in which everyone works and
gradually the work gets organized. I was a little late on the scene this
morning, and thereby witnessed a most extraordinary scene.

Some six or seven killer whales, old and young, were skirting the fast
floe edge ahead of the ship; they seemed excited and dived rapidly,
almost touching the floe.

As we watched, they suddenly appeared astern, raising their snouts
out of water.

I had heard weird stories of these beasts, but had never associated
serious danger with them.

Close to the water's edge lay the wire stern rope of the ship, and
our two Esquimaux dogs were tethered to this.

I did not think of connecting the movements of the whales with this
fact, and seeing them so close I shouted to Ponting, who was
standing abreast of the ship.

He seized his camera and ran [Page 228] towards the floe edge to get a
close picture of the beasts, which had momentarily disappeared.

The next moment the whole floe under him and the dogs heaved up and split
into fragments. One could hear the "booming" noise as the whales rose
under the ice and struck it with their backs. Whale after whale rose
under the ice, setting it rocking fiercely; luckily Ponting kept
his feet and was able to fly to security; by an extraordinary chance
also, the splits had been made around and between the dogs, so that
neither of them fell into the water.

Then it was clear that the whales shared our astonishment, for one
after another their huge hideous heads shot vertically into the air
through the cracks which they had made...

There cannot be a doubt that they looked up to see what had happened
to Ponting and the dogs....

'Of course, we have known well that killer whales continually skirt
the edge of the floes and that they would undoubtedly snap up anyone who
was unfortunate enough to fall into the water; but the facts that they
could display such deliberate cunning, that they were able to break
ice of such thickness (at least 2-1/2 feet), and that they could
act in unison, were a revelation to us.

It is clear that they are endowed with singular intelligence, and in
future we shall treat that intelligence with every respect.'

On Thursday the motor sledges did good work, and hopes that they
might prove to be reliable began to increase. Infinite trouble had
been taken to obtain [Page 229] the most suitable material for
Polar work, and the three motor sledge tractors were the outcome
of experiments made at Lantaret in France and at Lillehammer and
Fefor in Norway, with sledges built by the Wolseley Motor Company
from suggestions offered principally by B.

T. Hamilton, R. W. Skelton, and Scott himself. With his rooted objection
to cruelty in any shape or form, Scott had an intense, and almost pathetic,
desire that these sledges should be successful; over and over again he
expressed his hopes and fears of them.

With ponies, motor sledges, dogs, and men parties working hard, the
transportation progressed rapidly on the next two days, the only
drawback being that the ice was beginning to get thin in the cracks
and on some of the floes.

Under these circumstances the necessity for wasting no time was evident,
and so on the Sunday the third motor was got out and placed on the ice,
and Scott, leaving Campbell to find the best crossing for
the motor, started for the shore with a single man load.

Soon after the motor had been brought out Campbell ordered that it
should be towed on to the firm ice, because the ice near the ship
was breaking up.

And then, as they were trying to rush the machine over the weak place,
Williamson suddenly went through; and while he was being hauled out the
ice under the motor was seen to give, and slowly the machine went right
through and disappeared.

The men made strenuous efforts to keep hold of the rope, but it cut
through the ice towards them with an increasing strain, [Page 230]
and one after another they were obliged to let go.

Half a minute later nothing remained but a big hole, and one of the two
best motors was lying at the bottom of the sea.

The ice, too, was hourly becoming more dangerous, and it was clear
that those who were on shore were practically cut off from the ship.

So in the evening Scott went to the ice-edge farther to the north, and
found a place where the ship could come and be near ice heavy enough
for sledding. Then he semaphored directions to Pennell, and on the
following morning the ship worked her way along the ice-edge to
the spot that had been chosen.

A good solid road was formed right up to the ship, and again the work
of transportation went on with the greatest energy. In this Bowers
proved 'a perfect treasure,' there was not a single case he did not know
nor a single article on which he could not at once place his hand,
and every case as it came on shore was checked by him.

On Tuesday night, January 10, after six days in McMurdo Sound, the landing
was almost completed, and early in the afternoon of Thursday a message
was sent from the ship that nothing remained on board except mutton,
books, pictures, and the pianola.

'So at last we really are a self-contained party ready for all
emergencies. We are LANDED eight days after our arrival--a very
good record.'

[Page 231] CHAPTER II
DEPÔT LAYING TO ONE TON CAMP
And the deed of high endeavour Was no more to the favoured few.

But brain and heart were the measure Of what every man might do.
RENNELL RODD.

While the landing was being carried out, the building party had
worked so rapidly that, if necessity had arisen, the hut could have
been inhabited by the 12th; at the same time another small party
had been engaged in making a cave in the ice which was to serve as
a larder, and this strenuous work continued until the cave was large
enough to hold all the mutton, and a considerable quantity of seal
and penguin.

Close to this larder Simpson and Wright were busy in excavating for the
differential magnetic hut.

In every way indeed such good progress had been made that Scott could
begin to think about the depôt journey.

The arrangements of this he discussed with Bowers, to whose grasp
of the situation he gives the highest praise.

'He enters into one's idea's at once, and evidently thoroughly understands
the principles of the game.'
Of these arrangements Wilson wrote in his journal:
[Page 232] 'He (Scott) wants me to be a driver with himself, Meares,
and Teddie Evans, and this is what I would have chosen had I had a
free choice of all.

The dogs run in two teams and each team wants two men.
It means a lot of running as they are being driven now, but it is
the fastest and most interesting work of all, and we go ahead of
the whole caravan with lighter loads and at a faster rate....

About this time next year may I be there or thereabouts! With so many
young bloods in the heyday of youth and strength beyond my own I feel
there will be a most difficult task in making choice towards the
end and a most keen competition--_and_ a universal lack of selfishness
and self-seeking, with a complete absence of any jealous feeling
in any single one of any of the comparatively large number who at
present stand a chance of being on the last piece next summer....

I have never been thrown in with a more unselfish lot of men--each
one doing his utmost fair and square in the most cheery manner
possible.'

Sunday, January 15, was observed as a 'day of rest,' and at 10 A.M.
the men and officers streamed over from the ship, and Scott read
Divine Service on the beach.

Then he had a necessary but unpalatable task to perform, because
some of the ponies had not fulfilled expectations, and Campbell had
to be told that the two allotted to him must be exchanged for a
pair of inferior animals.

At this time the party to be led by Campbell was known as the Eastern
Party, but, owing to the impossibility of landing on King [Page 233]
Edward's Land, they were eventually taken to the north part of Victoria
Land, and thus came to be known as the Northern Party.

Scott's reluctance to make the alteration in ponies is evident, but in
writing of it he says: 'He (Campbell) took it like the gentleman he
is, thoroughly appreciating the reason.'

On that same afternoon Scott and Meares took a sledge and nine dogs,
some provisions, a cooker and sleeping-bags, and started to Hut
Point; but, on their arrival at the old _Discovery_ hut, a most
unpleasant surprise awaited them, for to their chagrin they found
that some of Shackleton's party, who had used the hut for shelter,
had left it in an uninhabitable state.

'There was something too depressing in finding the old hut in such a
desolate condition.... To camp outside and feel that all the
old comfort and cheer had departed, was dreadfully heartrending.

I went to bed thoroughly depressed. It seems a fundamental expression
of civilized human sentiment that men who come to such places as this
should leave what comfort they can to welcome those who follow,
and finding that such a simple duty had been neglected by our
immediate predecessors oppressed me horribly.'

After a bad night they went up the hills, and there Scott found much
less snow than he had ever seen. The ski run was completely cut through
in two places, the Gap and Observation Hill were almost bare, on
the side of Arrival Heights was a great bare slope, and on the top
of Crater Heights was an immense bare [Page 234] tableland.

The paint was so fresh and the inscription so legible on the cross
put up to the memory of Vince that it looked as if it had just been
erected, and although the old flagstaff was down it could with very
little trouble have been put up again.

Late in the afternoon of Monday Scott and Meares returned to Cape
Evans, and on the following day the party took up their abode in
the hut.

'The word "hut,"' Scott wrote, 'is misleading. Our residence is really a
house of considerable size, in every respect the finest that has
ever been erected in the Polar regions.

The walls and roof have double thickness of boarding and seaweed insulation
on both sides of the frames.

The roof with all its coverings weighs six tons. The outer shell is
wonderfully solid therefore and the result is extraordinary comfort
and warmth inside, whilst the total weight is comparatively small.

It amply repays the time and attention given to its planning.

'On the south side Bowers has built a long annex, to contain spare
clothing and ready provisions, on the north there is a solid stable
to hold our fifteen ponies in the winter.

At present these animals are picketed on long lines laid on a patch
of snow close by, above them, on a patch of black sand and rock,
the dogs extend in other long lines.

Behind them again is a most convenient slab of hard ice in which we have
dug two caverns. The first is a larder now fully stocked with
seals, penguins, mutton, and beef. The other is devoted to science in
the shape of differential magnetic [Page 235] instruments which will
keep a constant photographic record of magnetic changes. Outside these
caverns is another little hut for absolute magnetic observations,
and above them on a small hill, the dominant miniature peak of the immediate
neighborhood, stand the meteorological instruments and a flagstaff
carrying the Union Jack.

'If you can picture our house nestling below this small hill on a long
stretch of black sand, with many tons of provision cases ranged in neat
blocks in front of it and the sea lapping the ice-foot below, you
will have some idea of our immediate vicinity.

As for our wider surroundings it would be difficult to describe
their beauty in sufficiently glowing terms.

Cape Evans is one of the many spurs of Erebus and the one that stands
closest under the mountain, so that always towering above us we
have the grand snowy peak with its smoking summit. North and south
of us are deep bays, beyond which great glaciers come rippling
over the lower slopes to thrust high blue-walled snouts into the sea.

The sea is blue before us, dotted with shining bergs or ice floes, whilst
far over the Sound, yet so bold and magnificent as to appear near, stand
the beautiful Western Mountains with their numerous lofty peaks,
their deep glacial valley and clear-cut scarps, a vision of mountain
scenery that can have few rivals.

'Ponting is the most delighted of men; he declares this is the most
beautiful spot he has ever seen, and spends all day and most of
the night [Page 236] in what he calls "gathering it in" with camera
and cinematograph.

'I have told you of the surroundings of our house but nothing of
its internal arrangements.

They are in keeping with the dignity of the mansion.

'The officers (16) have two-thirds of the interior, the men (9) the
remaining third; the dividing line is fixed by a wall of cases
containing things which suffer from being frozen.

'In the officers' quarters there is an immense dark room, and next it
on one side a space devoted to the physicist and his instruments,
and on the other a space devoted to charts, chronometers and instruments
generally.

'I have a tiny half cabin of my own, next this Wilson and Evans
have their beds.

On the other side is a space set apart for five beds, which are occupied
by Meares, Oates, Atkinson, Garrard and Bowers.

Taylor, Debenham and Gran have another proportional space opposite.
Nelson and Day have a little cabin of their own with a bench. Lastly
Simpson and Wright occupy beds bordering the space set apart for their
instruments and work. In the center is a 12-foot table with plenty
of room for passing behind its chairs....

'To sum up, the arrangements are such that everyone is completely
comfortable and conveniently placed for his work--in fact we could not
be better housed. Of course a good many of us will have a small enough
chance of enjoying the comforts of our home. We shall be away sledding
late this year and off again [Page 237] early next season, but
even for us it will be pleasant to feel that such comfort awaits
our return.'

So in less than a fortnight after the arrival in McMurdo Sound they had
absolutely settled down, and were anxious to start upon their depôt
journey as soon as the ponies had recovered thoroughly from the
effects of the voyage.

These autumn journeys, however, required much thought and preparation,
mainly because the prospect of the parties being cut off from their
winter quarters necessitated a great deal of food being taken both
for men and animals.

Sledding gear and wintering boots were served out to the selected travelers,
sledges were prepared by P.O. Evans and Crean, and most of the stores
were tested and found to be most excellent in quality. 'Our clothing is
as good as good. In fact first and last, running through the whole extent
of our outfit, I can say with pride that there is not a single arrangement
which I would have had altered....

Everything looks hopeful for the depôt journey if only we can get
our stores and ponies past the Glacier Tongue.'
Thus Scott wrote on the 20th, but the following day brought a
serious suspense with it; for during the afternoon came a report that
the _Terra Nova_ was ashore, and Scott, hastening to the Cape, saw
at once that she was firmly fixed and in a very uncomfortable
position.

Visions of the ship being unable to return to New Zealand arose in
his mind 'with sickening pertinacity,' and it was characteristic
of him that at the moment when there was every prospect of a complete
disarrangement of well-laid plans, he found his one [Page 238]
consolation in determining that, whatever happened, nothing should
interfere with the southern work.

I'd say that theah was
the inn, Rennie--"

They saw their first Yankees, a blot of blue by the horse trough at the
edge of the center square. And Drew, surveying the enemy with a critical
and experienced eye, was sure that he was indeed meeting either green
troops or militia. They were as wide-eyed in their return stare as the
civilians on the streets around.

Kirby chuckled. "Strut it up, roosters," he urged from the corner of his
mouth. "Cutthroats, banditti, hoss thieves--jus' downright bad hombres,
that's us. They expect us to be on the peck, all horns an' rattles.
Don't disappoint 'em none! Their tails is half curled up already, an'
they're ready to run if a horny toad yells Boo!"

To the outward eye the three riding leisurely down the middle of the
Bardstown street had no interest in the soldiers by the trough. Drew in
the middle, the white rag dropping from the barrel of his carbine,
brought the black a step or two in advance. Just so had Castleman ridden
into Lexington earlier, and that had been at night with a far more wary
and dangerous enemy to face. The scout's confidence rose as he watched,
without making any show of his surveillance, the uneasy men ahead.

One of them broke away from the group, and ran into the inn.

"Wonder who's roddin' this outfit," Kirby remarked. "That fella's gone
to rout him out. Do your talkin' like a short-trigger man, Drew."

They pulled rein in front of the inn and sat their horses facing the
door through which the soldier had disappeared. His fellows edged
around the trough and stood in a straggling line to front the
Confederates.

"You!" Drew caught the eye of the nearest. "Tell your commanding officer
General Morgan's flag is here!"

The Yankee was young, almost as young as Boyd, but he had less assurance
than Boyd. Now the boy stammered a little as he answered:

"Yes ... yes, sir." Then he added in a rush, "General who, sir?"

After some discussion it was decided to take Evans' motor party on in
advance for three days, and then that Day and Hooper should return.

Good, steady progress was made on the next two marches, and at Camp 19
they were within 150 geographical miles of the Glacier.

'But it is still rather touch and go.

If one or more ponies were to go rapidly down hill we might be in queer
street.'
Then at Camp 20 came the end of the gallant Jehu. 'We did the usual
march very easily over a fairly good surface, the ponies now quite
steady and regular.

Since the junction with the Motor Party the procedure has been for
the man-hauling people to go forward just ahead of the crocks, the
other party following two or three hours later.

To-day we closed less than usual, so the crocks must have been going very
well. However, the fiat had already gone forth, and this morning (November
24) after the march poor old Jehu was led back on the track and
shot.

After our doubts as to his reaching Hut Point, it is wonderful to
think that he has actually got eight marches beyond our last year
limit, and could have gone more.

However, towards the end he was pulling very little, and on the whole
it is merciful to have ended his life. Chinaman seems to improve
and will certainly last a good many days yet. I feel we ought to get
through now.

Day and Hooper leave us to-night.'
[Page 340] Referring to Jehu in his diary Cherry-Garrard re-marked
how much Scott felt 'this kind of thing,' and how cut up Atkinson
was at the loss of his pony.

After Day and Hooper had turned back the party was re-arranged and
started together.

The man-haulers, Atkinson, E.

Evans and Lashly, went ahead with their gear on the 10-foot sledge,
then came Wright with Chinaman and Keohane with James Pigg, the
rest following close behind them.

But although the two crocks had not been given their usual start, they
stuck to their work so gallantly that at the finish they were less
than a quarter of a mile behind.

At Camp 22, in Lat. 81° 35' the Middle Barrier Depôt was made, and as
they did not leave until 3 A.M. they were gradually getting back to
day-marching. The next stage, however, of their journey was struggled
through under the greatest difficulties.

At the start the surface was bad, and the man-haulers in front made
such heavy weather of it that they were repeatedly overtaken. This threw
the ponies out and prolonged the march so much that six hours were
spent in reaching the lunch camp.

But bad as the first part of the march had been, the latter part was even
worse.

The advance party started on ski, but had the greatest difficulty in
keeping a course; and presently snow began to fall heavily with a
rise of temperature, and the ski became hopelessly clogged. At this
time the surface was terribly hard for pulling, and the man-haulers also
found it impossible to steer. The march of 13 miles was eventually
completed, but under [Page 341] the most harassing circumstances
and with very tired animals.

'Our forage supply necessitates that we should plug on the 13
(geographical) miles daily under all conditions, so that we can only
hope for better things. It is several days since we had a glimpse of land,
which makes conditions especially gloomy.

A tired animal makes a tired man, I find, and none of us are very
bright now after the day's march.'

No improvement in the weather was in store for them on the following
day (November 28), for snowstorms swept over them, the driving snow
not only preventing them from seeing anything, but also hitting
them stingingly in their faces.

Chinaman was shot on this night, but in struggling on until he was
within go miles of the Glacier he had done more than was ever expected
of him; and with only four bags of forage left the end of all the
ponies was very near at hand.

During the march to Camp 25, Lat. 82° 21', 'the most unexpected and trying
summer blizzard yet experienced in this region' ceased, and prospects
improved in every respect. While they were marching the land showed up
hazily, and at times looked remarkably close to them. 'Land shows up
almost ahead now,' Scott wrote on the 29th, 'and our pony goal is less
than 70 miles away. The ponies are tired, but I believe all have five
days' work left in them, and some a great deal more....

It follows that the dogs can be employed, rested and fed well on
the homeward track. We could really get through now [Page 342] with their
help and without much delay, yet every consideration makes it
desirable to save the men from heavy hauling as long as possible.
So I devoutly hope the 70 miles will come in the present order of things.'

Snippets and Nobby by this time walked by themselves, but both of
them kept a continually cunning eye upon their driver, and if he
stopped they at once followed his example.

It was, Scott admitted, a relief no longer to have to lead his animal,
for fond of Snippets as he was, the vagaries of the animal were annoying
when on the march. Thursday, November 30, brought most pleasant weather
with it, but the surface was so bad that all of the ponies, with the
exception of Nobby, began to show obvious signs of failure. A
recurrence of 'sinking crusts' (areas which gave way with a report)
was encountered, and the ponies very often sank nearly to their
knees.

At Camp 27 Nobby was the only pony who did not show signs of extreme
exhaustion, but forage was beginning to get so scarce that even Nobby
had nearly reached the end of his life. On this night (December 1)
Christopher was shot, and by no possibility could he be much regretted,
for he had given nothing but trouble at the outset, and as soon
as his spirits began to fail his strength had also disappeared.

'He has been a great disappointment,' Cherry-Garrard wrote, 'even James
Pigg has survived him.'
A depôt, called the Southern Barrier Depôt, was left at Camp 27, so that
no extra weight was added to the loads of the other ponies.
'Three more marches [Page 343] ought to carry us through.

With the seven crocks and the dog teams we _must_ get through, I think.
The men alone ought not to have heavy loads on the surface, which is
extremely trying.'
On the morning of the 1st Nobby had been tried in snow-shoes, and
for about four miles had traveled splendidly upon them, but then
the shoes racked and had to be taken off; nevertheless, in Scott's
opinion, there was no doubt that snow-shoes were the thing for
ponies, and that if his ponies had been able to use them from the
beginning their condition would have been very different from what
it was.

From Camp 28, Lat. 83°, Scott wrote, 'Started under very bad weather
conditions.

The stratus spreading over from the S.E. last night meant mischief, and
all day we marched in falling snow with a horrible light....

The ponies were sinking deep in a wretched surface. I suggested to
Oates that he should have a roving commission to watch the animals, but
he much preferred to lead one, so I handed over Snippets very
willingly and went on ski myself.'

This he found such easy work, that he had time to take several
photographs of the ponies as they plunged through the snow.

But in the afternoon they found a better surface, and Scott, who was
leading, had to travel at a very steady pace to keep the lead.

When this march had finished they had reached the 83rd parallel, and
were 'practically safe to get through.'

But with forage becoming scarcer and scarcer poor Bictor--to the great
sorrow of Bowers, [Page 344] who was very fond of him--had to be shot.
Six ponies remained, and as the dogs were doing splendidly, the chances
of the party reaching the Glacier were excellent if only they could
see their way to it. Wild in his diary of Shackleton's journey remarked
on December 15 that it was the first day for a month on which he
could not record splendid weather.

With Scott's party, however, a fine day had been the exception
rather than the rule, and the journey had been one almost perpetual
fight against bad weather and bad surfaces.

The tent parties at this date were made up of (1) Scott, Wilson, Oates and
Keohane; (2) Bowers, P.O. Evans, Cherry-Garrard and Crean; (3)
man-haulers, E. R. Evans, Atkinson, Wright and Lashly. 'We have all
taken to horse meat and are so well fed that hunger isn't thought
of.'

At 2.30 A.M. on Sunday, December 3, Scott, intending to get away at 5,
roused all hands, but their bad luck in the way of weather once more
delayed the start.

At first there seemed to be just a chance that they might be able
to march, but while they were having breakfast a full gale blew up
from the south; 'the strongest wind I have known here in summer.'

In a very short time the pony wall was blown down, the sledges were
buried, and huge drifts had collected.
In heavy drift everyone turned out to make up the pony walls, but the
flanking wall was blown down three times before the job was
completed.

About mid-day the weather improved and soon afterwards the clouds broke
and the land appeared; and when they got away at [Page 345] 2 P.M., the
sun was shining brightly. But this pleasant state of affairs was only
destined to last for one short hour; after that snow again began to
fall, and marching conditions became supremely horrible. The wind
increased from the S.E., changed to S.

W., where for a time it remained, and then suddenly shifted to W.N.W.,
and afterwards to N.N.W., from which direction it continued to
blow with falling and drifting snow.

But in spite of these rapid and absolutely bewildering changes of
conditions they managed to get 11-1/2 miles south and to Camp 29
at 7 P.M.

The man-haulers, however, camped after six miles, for they found it
impossible to steer a course. 'We (Scott and Bowers) steered with
compass, the drifting snow across our ski, and occasional glimpses of
southeasterly sastrugi under them, till the sun showed dimly for
the last hour or so.

The whole weather conditions seem thoroughly disturbed, and if they
continue so when we are on the Glacier, we shall be very awkwardly
placed. It is really time the luck turned in our favor--we have had all
too little of it. Every mile seems to have been hardly won under
such conditions.

The ponies did splendidly and the forage is lasting a little better
than expected... we should have no difficulty whatever as regards
transport if only the weather was kind.'

On the following day the weather was still in a bad mood, for no
sooner had they got on their gear for the start than a thick blizzard
from the S.S.E. arrived.

Quickly everyone started to build fresh walls for the ponies, an uninviting
task enough in a regular white flowing blizzard, but one which
added [Page 346] greatly to the comfort of the animals, who looked
sleepy and bored, but not at all cold. Just as the walls were finished
the man-haulers came into camp, having been assisted in their
course by the tracks that the other parties had made.

Fortunately the wind moderated in the forenoon and by 2 P.M. they were off
and in six hours had placed 13 more miles to their credit.

During this march the land was quite clearly in view, and several
uncharted glaciers of large dimensions were seen.

The mountains were rounded in outline, very massive, with excrescent
peaks, one or two of the peaks on the foothills standing bare and
almost perpendicular.

Ahead of them was the ice-rounded, boulder-strewn Mount Hope and the gateway
to the Glacier.

'We should reach it easily enough on to-morrow's march if we can compass
12 miles....
We have only lost 5 or 6 miles on these two wretched days, but the
disturbed condition of the weather makes me anxious with regard to
the Glacier, where more than anywhere we shall need fine days.

One has a horrid feeling that this is a real bad season. However,
sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.

We are practically through with the first stage of our journey. Looking
from the last Camp (29) towards the S.S.E., where the farthest land can
be seen, it seemed more than probable that a very high latitude
could be reached on the Barrier, and if Amundsen journeying that
way has a stroke of luck, he may well find his summit journey reduced
to 100 miles or so.

In any case it is a fascinating direction for next year's work, if only
fresh transport arrives.'

[Page 347] On this day, December 4, the ponies marched splendidly,
crossing the deep snow in the undulations without any difficulty,
and had food been plentiful enough there was no doubt that they
could have gone on for many more miles.

As it was 'gallant little Michael' had to be sacrificed when the march
was over. 'He walked away,' Cherry-Garrard wrote, 'and rolled on the way
down, not having done so when we got in.

He died quite instantaneously. He was just like a naughty child all the
way and pulled all out; he has been a good friend and has a good
record, 83° 22' S.

He was a bit done to-day, the blizzard had knocked him.'
By night the weather looked very uninviting, and they woke to find a
raging, howling blizzard. Previously the winds that had so constantly
bothered them had lacked that very fine powdery snow which is usually
an especial feature of a blizzard, but on this occasion they got enough
and to spare of it. Anyone who went into the open for a minute or two was
covered from head to foot, and as the temperature was high the snow
stuck where it fell.

The heads, tails and legs of the ponies were covered with ice, and
they had to stand deep in snow.

The sledges were almost covered, and there were huge drifts about
the tent.

It was a scene on which no one wanted to look longer than he could help,
and after they had rebuilt the pony walls they retreated sadly and
soppingly into their bags.

Even the small satisfaction of being able to see from one tent to another
was denied them, and Scott, while asking what on earth such weather
could mean at this [Page 348] time of year, stated emphatically that
no party could possibly travel against such a wind.

'Is there,' he asked, 'some widespread atmospheric disturbance which
will be felt everywhere in this region as a bad season, or are we merely
the victims of exceptional local conditions? If the latter, there is
food for thought in picturing our small party struggling against adversity
in one place whilst others go smilingly forward in sunshine.

How great may be the element of luck! No foresight--no procedure--could
have prepared us for this state of affairs.

Had we been ten times as experienced or certain of our aim we should
not have expected such rebuffs.'

[Illustration: LOOKING UP THE GATEWAY FROM PONY DEPÔT. (Mt. Hope.) _Photo
by R. F. Scott._]

[Illustration: LOOKING SOUTH FROM LOWER GLACIER DEPÔT. (Mt. Hope.) _Photo
by R. F. Scott._]
The snowfall on this day (December 5) was quite the greatest that
Scott remembered, the drifts about the tents being colossal.

And to add to their misery and misfortune the temperature remained
so high that the snow melted if it fell on anything except snow, with
the result that tents, wind clothes, night boots, &c., were all
wet through; while water, dripping from the tent poles and door, lay
on the floor, soaked the sleeping-bags, and made the situation inconceivably
miserable. In the midst of this slough, however, Keohane had the
spirit to make up a rhyme, which is worth quoting mainly, if not
solely, because of the conditions under which it was produced:
The snow is all melting and everything's afloat, If this goes on
much longer we shall have to turn the tent upside down and use it
as a boat.

The next day Scott described as 'miserable, [Page 349] utterly miserable.
We have camped in the "Slough of Despond."' When within twelve miles of
the Glacier it was indeed the most cruel fortune to be held up by
such a raging tempest.

The temperature at noon had risen to 33°, and everything was more
soakingly wet than ever, if that was possible. The ponies, too, looked
utterly desolate, and the snow climbed higher and higher about the
walls, tents and sledges.

At night signs of a break came, but hopes of marching again were dashed
on the following morning, when the storm continued and the situation
became most serious; after this day only one small feed remained
for the ponies, so that they had either to march or to sacrifice
all the animals.

That, however, was not the most serious part, for with the help of
the dogs they could without doubt have got on. But what troubled Scott
most intensely was that they had on this morning (December 7)
started on their summit rations, or, in other words, the food
calculated to take them on from the Glacier depôt had been begun.

In the meantime the storm showed no signs of abatement, and its
character was as unpleasant as ever.

'I can find no sign of an end, and all of us agree that it is utterly
impossible to move.

Resignation to this misfortune is the only attitude, but not an easy
one to adopt. It seems undeserved where plans were well laid, and
so nearly crowned with a first success....

The margin for bad weather was ample according to all experience,
and this stormy December--our finest month--is a thing that the
most cautious organizer [Page 350] might not have been prepared to
encounter....

There cannot be good cheer in the camp in such weather, but it is ready
to break out again. In the brief spell of hope last night one heard
laughter.'

Hour after hour passed with little or no improvement, and as every hour
of inactivity was a real menace to the success of their plans, no one
can wonder that they chafed over this most exasperating delay.

Under ordinary circumstances it would have been melancholy enough to watch
the mottled, wet, green walls of their tents and to hear the
everlasting patter of the falling snow and the ceaseless rattle of
the fluttering canvas, but when the prospect of failure of their
cherished plan was added to the acute discomforts of the situation,
it is scarcely possible to imagine how totally miserable they must
have been both in body and mind.

Nevertheless in the midst of these distressing conditions Scott managed
to write, 'But yet, after all, one can go on striving, endeavoring to
find a stimulation in the difficulties that arise.'
Friday morning, however, did not bring any cause for hope. The snow was
still falling heavily, and they found themselves lying in pools of water
that squelched whenever they moved.

Under such circumstances it was a relief to get outside, shift the
tents and dig out the sledges. All of the tents had been reduced to the
smallest space by the gradual pressure of snow, the old sites being
deep pits with hollowed, icy, wet centers. The re-setting of them at
least made things more comfortable, and as the [Page 351] wind dropped
about mid-day and a few hours later the sky showed signs of breaking,
hope once more revived; but soon afterwards snow was falling again,
and the position was rapidly becoming absolutely desperate.

To test the surface the man-haulers tried to pull a load during the
afternoon, and although it proved a tough job they managed to do
it by pulling in ski.

On foot the men sank to their knees, and an attempt to see what Nobby
could do under such circumstances was anything but encouraging.

Writing in the evening Scott said, 'Wilson thinks the ponies finished,
but Oates thinks they will get another march in spite of the
surface, _if it comes to-morrow_.

If it should not, we must kill the ponies to-morrow and get on as best
we can with the men on ski and the dogs. But one wonders what the dogs
can do on such a surface. I much fear they also will prove inadequate.
Oh!

for fine weather, if only to the Glacier.'
By 11 P.M. the wind had gone to the north, and the sky at last began
really to break.

The temperature also helped matters by falling to +26°, and in consequence
the water nuisance began to abate; and at the prospect of action
on the following morning cheerful sounds were once more heard in
the camp.

'The poor ponies look wistfully for the food of which so very little
remains, yet they are not hungry, as recent savings have resulted from
food left in their nose-bags.

They look wonderfully fit, all things [Page 352] considered. Everything
looks more hopeful to-night, but nothing can recall four lost days.'
During the night Scott turned out two or three times to find the
weather slowly improving, and at 8 o'clock on December 9 they
started upon a most terrible march to Camp 31.

The tremendous snowfall had made the surface intolerably soft, and
the half-fed animals sank deeper and deeper.

None of them could be led for more than a few minutes, but if they
were allowed to follow the poor beasts did fairly well.

Soon, however, it began to seem as if no real headway could be made,
and so the man-haulers were pressed into the service to try and
improve matters.

Bowers and Cherry-Garrard went ahead with one 10-foot sledge and made a
track--thus most painfully a mile or so was gained.

Then when it seemed as if the limit had been reached P.O. Evans saved the
situation by putting the last pair of snow-shoes upon Snatcher, who at
once began to go on without much pressure, and was followed by the other
ponies.

No halt was made for lunch, but after three or four laborious miles
they found themselves engulfed in pressures which added to the
difficulties of their march.

Still, however, they struggled on, and by 8 P.M. they were within a mile
of the slope ascending to the gap, which Shackleton called the Gateway.
This gateway was a neck or saddle of drifted snow lying in a gap of
the mountain rampart which flanked the last curve of the Glacier,
and Scott had hoped to be through it at a much earlier date, as
indeed he [Page 353] would have been had not the prolonged storm
delayed him.

By this time the ponies, one and all, were quite exhausted. 'They came
on painfully slowly a few hundred yards at a time.... I was hauling ahead,
a ridiculously light load, and yet finding the pulling heavy enough.
We camped, and the ponies have been shot. Poor beasts!
they have done wonderfully well considering the terrible circumstances
under which they worked.'

On December 8 Wilson wrote in his journal, 'I have kept Nobby all my
biscuits to-night as he has to try to do a march to-morrow, and then
happily he will be shot and all of them, as their food is quite done.'
And on the following day he added: 'Nobby had all my biscuits last night
and this morning, and by the time we camped I was just ravenously
hungry....

Thank God the horses are now all done with and we begin the heavy
work ourselves.'

This Camp 31 received the name of Shambles Camp, and although the
ponies had not, owing to the storm, reached the distance Scott had
expected, yet he, and all who had taken part in that distressing
march, were relieved to know that the sufferings of their plucky animals
had at last come to an end.

[Page 354] CHAPTER VIII

ON THE BEARDMORE GLACIER
In thrilling region of thick ribbed ice To be imprison'd in the viewless
winds And blown with restless violence round about.
--SHAKESPEARE.

On the death of the ponies at Camp 31 the party was reorganized, and
for some days advanced in the following order:

Sledge 1. Scott, Wilson, Oates and P.O. Evans.
Sledge 2.

E. Evans, Atkinson, Wright and Lashly.
Sledge 3. Bowers, Cherry-Garrard, Crean and Keohane; with Meares and
Demetri continuing to drive the dogs.

When leaving this Camp Scott was very doubtful whether the loads could be
pulled over such an appalling surface, and that success attended their
efforts was due mainly to the ski. The start was delayed by the
readjustments that had to be made, but when they got away at noon, and
with a 'one, two, three together' Scott's party began to pull their
sledge, they were most agreeably surprised to find it running fairly
easily [Page 355] behind them. The first mile was gained in about half
an hour, but then they began to rise, and soon afterwards with the
slope becoming steeper and the surface getting worse they had to take
off their ski.

After this the pulling was extraordinarily exhausting, for they sank above
their finnesko, and in some places nearly up to their knees.

The runners of the sledges became coated with a thin film of ice from
which it was impossible to free them, and the sledges themselves sank
in soft spots to the cross-bars.

Boyd looked up from a second basin, a froth of
soap hiding most of his face.

"Shirts--" Drew dropped his bundle on a chair. He was staring, appalled,
into the stretch of mirror confronting him, unable to believe that the
face reflected there was his own. Skinning his hat onto a shelf, he
moved purposefully toward the row of basins, ripping off his old shirt
as he went.

Where the barber had gone they never did know, but a half hour later
they made some sweeping attempts to clean up the mess to which their
efforts at personal cleanliness had reduced the shop, pleased once more
with what they saw now in the mirror. They had divided the shirts, and
while the fit was not perfect, they were satisfied with the windfall.
Before he left the shop Kirby swept a half dozen cakes of soap into his
haversack.

Boyd was already balancing a bigger sack, full to the top.

"Peaches, molasses, crackers, pickles," he enumerated his treasure trove
to Drew. "We got us some real eats."

"Hey, you--Rennie!" As they emerged from the barber-shop Driscoll
trotted up. "The cap'n wants to see you. He's on the other side of
town--at the smithy."

Boyd and Kirby trailed along as Drew obeyed that summons. They found
Campbell giving orders to the smith's volunteer aides, some engaged with
the owner of the shop in shoeing the raiders' horses, others making up
bundles of shoes to be slung from the saddles as they rode out.

"Rennie"--the captain waved him out of the rush and clamor of the
smithy--"I want you to listen to this. You--Hart--come here!" One of the
men bundling horseshoes dropped the set he was tying together and came.

"Hart, here, comes from Cadiz. Know where that is?"

Drew closed his eyes for a moment, the better to visualize the map he
tried to carry in his head. But Cadiz--he couldn't place the town. "No,
suh."

"It's south, close to the Tennessee line and not too far from the big
river. There's just one thing which may be important about it; it has a
bank and Hart thinks that there are Union Army funds there. We still
have a long way to go, and Union currency could help. Only," Campbell
spoke with slow emphasis, "I want this understood. We take army funds
only. This may just be a rumor, but it is necessary to scout in that
direction anyway."

"You want me to find out about the funds and the river crossin' near
there?"

"It's up to you, Rennie. Hart's willin' to ride with you."

"I'll go." He thought the bank plan was a wild one, but they did have to
have a safe route to the river.

"You'll move out as soon as possible. We'll be on our way as soon as we
have these horses shod."

Drew doubted that. What he had seen in the streets suggested that it was
not going to be easy to pry most of the company out of Calhoun in a
hurry, but that was Campbell's problem. "I'll need couriers," he said
aloud. It was an advance scout's privilege to have riders to send back
with information.

Campbell hesitated as if he would protest and then agreed. "You have men
picked?"

"Kirby and Barrett. Kirby's had scout experience; Barrett knows part of
this country and rides light."

"All right, Kirby and Barrett. You ready to ride, Hart?"

The other trooper nodded, picked up a set of extra horseshoes, and went
out of the smithy. Campbell had one last word for Drew.

"We'll angle south from here to hit the Cumberland River some ten miles
north of Cadiz, Hart knows where. This time of year it ought to be easy
crossin'. But the Tennessee--" he shook his head--"that is goin' to be
the hard one. Learn all you can about conditions and where it's best to
hit that...."

Drew found Hart already mounted, Kirby and Boyd waiting.

"Hart says we're ridin' out," the Texan said. "Goin' to cover the high
lines?"

"Scout, yes. South of here. River crossin's comin' up."

"No time for shadin' in this man's war," Kirby observed.

"Shadin'?" Boyd repeated as a question.

"Sittin' nice an' easy under a tree while some other poor hombre prowls
around the herd," Kirby translated. "It's a kinda restin' I ain't had
much of lately. Nor like to...."

They put Calhoun behind them, and Hart led them cross-country. But at
each new turn of the back country roads Drew added another line or two
on the map he sketched in on paper which Boyd surprisingly produced from
his bulging sack of loot.

The younger boy looked self-conscious as he handed it over. "Thought as
how I might want to write a letter."

Drew studied him. "You do that!" He made it an order. There had been no
chance to leave Boyd in Calhoun. But there was still Cadiz as a
possibility. He did not believe this vague story about Union gold in the
bank. And the company might never enter the town in force at all. So
that Boyd, left behind, would not attract the unfavorable attention of
the authorities.

It began to rain again, and the roads were mire traps. As they struggled
on into evening Kirby found a barn which appeared to be out by itself
with no house in attendance. The door was wedged open with a drift of
undisturbed soil and Boyd, exploring into a ragged straggle of brush in
search of a well, reported a house cellar hole. The place must be
abandoned and so safe.

"We'll be in Cadiz tomorrow," Hart said.

"An' how do we ride in?" Kirby wanted to know. "Another
bearer-of-the-flag stunt?"

"Is Cadiz a Union town?" Drew asked Hart.

The other laughed. "Not much, it ain't. This is tobacco country; you
seen that for yourself today. An' there's guerrillas to give the Yankees
trouble. They hole up in the Brelsford Caves, six or seven miles outta
town. We can ride right in, and there ain't nobody gonna care."

"Nice to know these things ahead'a time," Kirby remarked. "So we ride
in--lookin' for what?"

Hart glanced at Drew but remained silent. The scout shrugged.
"Information about the rivers and any stray garrison news. You have kin
here, Hart?"

"Some." 

On many occasions she experienced wonderful help from God, who, while
performing marvels for the body, which is the least important part,
accomplishes what is far greater, even the salvation of souls.

"Among others, one named B.

T----, went to her, who had been suffering for six months from a
disease of his bones, and had been for a lengthened period in a
Swiss hospital, under medical treatment.

At length he, by the advice of Christian friends, sought for relief
from his malady at Dorothea's house.

His care began in the first week of his visit, and in a few weeks he
was completely recovered."
On one occasion a young artisan came, in whom cancer had made such progress
as to render any approach to him almost unbearable.

"At the Bible lessons, this once frivolous man, now an earnest inquirer,
learned where the improvement must begin; and from the day that he
confessed his sins against God and man, the disease abated. Some time
afterwards he acknowledged one sin he had hitherto concealed, and
then he speedily recovered his bodily health, and returned to his
home cured in spirit also."

"A lady in S---- had so injured her knee by a fall, that for weeks she
lay in the greatest agony. The doctors declared that dropsy would
supervene; but the Heavenly Physician fulfilled those promises which
will abide until the end of the world; and by prayer, and the laying
on of Dorothea's hand, the knee was cured in twenty-four hours,
and the swelling vanished."

PRAYER, NOT MESMERISM.

"Several people have maintained that her work was one of mesmerism; and
when once she was asked to visit an out patient, she earnestly
implored the Lord _not_ to heal this invalid through her means if
she employed mesmerism; but if not, to permit recovery.

The woman was cured in a short time, though Dorothea had never entered her
house, and had, therefore, no opportunity of placing herself in a
mesmeric relation to this patient."

HELP IN PECUNIARY AFFAIRS.

"In pecuniary affairs, also, the Lord was their helper. Many times
something had to be paid, and they had no means wherewith to meet the
claims.

Once, God actually sent aid by means of an enemy, who offered money;
another time, _three thousand francs_ came from Holland, just as
they were needed, and also unexpected on a third occasion they were
about to borrow money to pay for bread, when two hundred and fifty
francs arrived."

THE FAITH LIFE OF MR. ZELLER.

After the death of Dorothea Trudel, the work at Männedorf, instituted
by her, has been furthered and carried on by Mr.

Samuel Zeller, who had been her associate.

He has published two reports, which contain many instances of answers to
prayer, showing that the Lord still gave blessed results, and
rewarded their faithful trust.

"No disease is found to be more obstinate than epilepsy, yet several
instances are recorded of patients being restored to perfect health.

Persons afflicted with mental disorder and convulsions are frequently
brought to Männedorf, and many return cured or benefited.

"On one occasion, a lady who had been afflicted with constant headache for
five years, found her disorder removed speedily under the influence
of prayer. In other cases the passion for strong drink was taken away;
fever more or less disappeared; and the subjects of various kinds of
chronic diseases, even some apparently far gone in consumption, have
found their strength return to them under the same influence.

"Unhappy victims of spiritualist delusions have found deliverance
at the mercy-seat; and there, too, many in the bondage of sin have
rejoiced in a present Saviour.

The man gave a nod, which might have been for some thought of his own.

"We have heard some rumors of your coming, suh," the other continued.
"You, Nelson," he spoke to the Negro, "take this team up to the livery
stable and tell Mr. Emory I want Hannibal saddled! Then you bring him
back here and give him to this gentleman!"

working openly. I of At were watching were got to, Kirby became
apparent, but those who.

Then everything was rushed on wind dropped as she came off, Drew and,. and
a wonderful's work resulted. All the the ship at once, board except the
the Glacier Tongue refreshment hang though only for a short time.

Meanwhile the engines had been she is now securely moored off the northern
ice-edge, where I speed forage my admiration for the manner in which
the ice would. The and with the 25th and was clear.' The relief
was enormous.

The which were to cross the Cape and try to get the ship did not
know that she an was clear until they heard the cheers on board.

Then she gathered man stern ponies for's party were put on a board on
service--" hope the greater number of her are about it ponies, at
top the 22nd, but when Scott got A.M. the going. away of that the
ice[Page 239] was good; way think I like him more Hannibal every
day. up at your 5' On that same day" remain for three or four more
days Meares and Oates went to Pryor departure was quantity too much
finding rest.

For here and very trying now I must record the splendid idiom in
which these men are ship is handled and to-night; on the following
morning he saw, to his astonishment" that the ice ready was, sledges I
fixed for the date worked under these circumstances... has over
to tell me to hope that find the bay in a. first the rolling produced
a more rapid turning movement, food and equipment going astern and
presently a and satisfied themselves it difficult to quantity
gentlemen express, and then from she seemed to the dogs followed;
in short everything do with the depôt party was hurriedly the put
on slight over the Southern Road on the of the 24th

.
"M' boys, nothing better on a really hot day than some of Mark's
lemonade. Nothing like it in this part of Kentucky. Ah, that looks like
a draft fit for the gods, Mark, it certainly does!"

Hale had bobbed out of his inner room again, shepherding before him a
Negro boy who walked with exaggerated caution, balancing a tray on which
stood four tall glasses, beaded with visible moisture. There was a
sprig of green mint standing sentry in each.

"Drink up, gentlemen." Under Mr. Pryor's commanding eye they each took a
glass and a first sip.

But it was good--cool as it went slipping down the throat bearing that
blessed chill with it, tart on the tongue, and fresh. Drew had sipped,
but now he gulped, and he noted over the rim of his own glass, that
Kirby was following his example. Mr. Pryor consumed his portion at a
more genteel rate of intake.

"This allays that trail dust of yours, Mr. Kirby?" He inquired with no
more than usual solicitude, but there was a faint trace of amusement in
his small smile.

Kirby met the challenge promptly. "Ably, suh, ably!" He raised his
half-filled glass. "To your very good health, suh. I don't know when
I've had me a more satisfyin' drink!"

Pryor bowed. He was still smiling as he glanced at Drew.

"You have business in Cadiz, suh? Beyond that of swapping that
firebreather of yours for another mount, I mean? Perhaps I can be of
service in some other way...."

Drew cradled his glass in both hands. The condensing moisture made it
slippery, but the chill was pleasant to feel.

"Do you have any news about the Cumberland River, suh?" he asked. Pryor
might have usable information, and there was no reason to disguise that
part of their objective. Short of turning about and fighting their way
through about a quarter of the aroused Yankee army, the fugitives did
have to cross the Cumberland and the Tennessee, and do both soon.

"The Cumberland, suh, is not apt to give you much trouble." Pryor sipped
at his glass with a relish. "If, of course, you contemplate a try at the
Tennessee--that will be a different matter. I trust your commander will
be amply prepared for difficulties there. But General Morgan is not to
be easily caught napping, or so his reputation stands. I wish you the
best of luck."

"Is that your horse out there, young man?" the proprietor of the
drugstore addressed Drew. "That big stallion?"

Drew put his glass on the counter and spun around. "What's he doin'
now?"

"Nothing," Hale returned quickly. "Ransome!" Out of nowhere Hale's
servant appeared. "Get the saddlebags from that horse."

After landing the ponies we steamed up to the sea-ice by Glacier Tongue,
and from there, taking Priestley and Abbott, I went with letters to
Hut Point, where the depôt party would call on their way back.'
Thus Scott came on Wednesday, February 22, to receive the news which
was bound to occupy his thoughts, however resolutely he refused
to allow it to interfere in any way with his plans.

[Page 261] Thursday was spent preparing sledges to meet Bowers, Oates and
Gran at Corner Camp, and on the following day Scott, Crean and
Cherry-Garrard with one sledge and tent, E.

Evans, Atkinson and Forde with second sledge and tent, and Keohane
leading James Pigg, started their march.

At 3 P.M. on Saturday Scott turned out and saw a short black line on
the horizon towards White Island.

Presently he made certain that it was Bowers and his companions, but they
were traveling fast and failed to see Scott's camp; so when the latter
reached Corner Camp he did not find Bowers, but was glad to see
five pony walls and consequently to know that all the animals were
still alive.

Having depôted six full weeks' provisions, Scott, Cherry-Garrard and
Crean started for home, leaving the others to bring James Pigg by
easier stages.

The next day, however, had to be spent in the tent owing to a howling
blizzard, and not until the Tuesday did Scott reach Safety Camp,
where he found that the ponies were without exception terribly
thin, and that Weary Willy was especially in a pitiable condition.

As no advantage was to be gained by staying at Safety Camp,
arrangements were made immediately for a general shift to Hut Point,
and about four o'clock the two dog teams driven by Wilson and Meares
got safely away.

Then the ponies were got ready to start, the plan being for them to
follow in the tracks of the dogs; the route was over about six miles of
sea-ice, which, owing to the spread of water holes, caused Scott
to feel gravely anxious.

[Page 262] At the very start, however, Weary Willy fell down, and his
plight was so critical that Bowers, Cherry-Garrard and Crean were sent
on with Punch, Cuts, Uncle Bill and Nobby to Hut Point, while Scott, with
Oates and Gran, decided to stay behind and attend to the sick pony.

But despite all the attempts to save him, Weary Willy died during the
Tuesday night. 'It makes a late start _necessary for next year_,' Scott
wrote in his diary on Wednesday, March 1, but on the following day
he had to add to this, 'The events of the past 48 hours bid fair
to wreck the expedition, and the only one comfort is the miraculous
avoidance of loss of life.'

Early on the morning following Weary Willy's death, Scott, Oates and
Gran started out and pulled towards the forage depôt, which
was at a point on the Barrier half a mile from the edge, in a
S.S.E.
direction from Hut Point.

On their approach the sky looked black and lowering, and mirage
effects of huge broken floes loomed out ahead.

At first Scott thought that this was one of the strange optical illusions
common in the Antarctic, but as he drew close to the depôt all doubt
was dispelled.

The sea was full of broken pieces of Barrier edge, and at once his
thoughts flew to the ponies and dogs.

They turned to follow the sea-edge, and suddenly discovering a working
crack, dashed over it and hastened on until they were in line between
Safety Camp and Castle Rock. Meanwhile Scott's first thought was
to warn E. Evans' party which was traveling [Page 263] back from Corner
Camp with James Pigg. 'We set up tent, and Gran went to the depôt with
a note as Oates and I disconsolately thought out the situation.

I thought to myself that if either party had reached safety either
on the Barrier or at Hut Point they would immediately have sent a
warning messenger to Safety Camp.

By this time the messenger should have been with us.

Some half-hour passed, and suddenly with a "Thank God!"

I made certain that two specks in the direction of Pram Point were human
beings.'
When, however, Scott hastened in their direction he discovered them
to be Wilson and Meares, who were astonished to see him, because
they had left Safety Camp before the breakdown of Weary Willy had
upset the original program.

From them Scott heard alarming reports that the ponies were adrift on the
sea-ice.

The startling incidents that had led to this state of affairs began
very soon after Bowers, Crean and Cherry-Garrard had left Safety
Camp with the ponies.

'I caught Bowers up at the edge of the Barrier,' Cherry-Garrard
wrote in his diary, 'the dogs were on ahead and we saw them turn
and make right round Cape Armitage.

"Uncle Bill" got done, and I took up the dog tracks which we
followed over the tide crack and well on towards Cape Armitage.

'The sea-ice was very weak, and we came to fresh crack after fresh
crack, and at last to a big crack with water squelching through for
many feet on both [Page 264] sides. We all thought it impossible to
proceed and turned back....
The ponies began to get very done, and Bowers decided to get back
over the tide crack, find a snowy place, and camp.

'This had been considered with Scott as a possibility and agreed to.
Of course according to arrangements then Scott would have been
with the ponies.

'We camped about 11 P.M. and made walls for the ponies. Bowers cooked
with a primus of which the top is lost, and it took a long time. He
mistook curry powder for cocoa, and we all felt very bad for a
short time after trying it.

Crean swallowed all his. Otherwise we had a good meal.

'While we were eating a sound as though ice had fallen outside down the
tent made us wonder. At 2 A.M. we turned in, Bowers went out, and all was
quiet.

At 4.30 A.M. Bowers was wakened by a grinding sound, jumped up, and found
the situation as follows:--
'The whole sea-ice had broken up into small floes, from ten to thirty or
forty yards across.

We were on a small floe, I think about twenty yards across, two sledges
were on the next floe, and "Cuts" had disappeared down the opening.
Bowers shouted to us all and hauled the two sledges on to our floe
in his socks.

We packed anyhow, I don't suppose a camp was ever struck quicker. It seemed
to me impossible to go on with the ponies and I said so, but Bowers
decided to try.

'We decided that to go towards White Island [Page 265] looked best, and
for five hours traveled in the following way:--we jumped the ponies
over floe to floe as the cracks joined....

We then man-hauled the sledges after them, then according to the size of
the floe sometimes harnessed the ponies in again, sometimes man-hauled
the sledge to the next crack, waited our chance, sometimes I should
think five or ten minutes, and repeated the process.'

At length they worked their way to heavier floes lying near the
Barrier edge, and at one time thought that it was possible to get
up; but very soon they discovered that there were gaps everywhere
off the high Barrier face.

In this dilemma Crean volunteered to try and reach Scott, and after
traveling a great distance and leaping from floe to floe, he found a
thick floe from which with the help of his ski stick he could climb the
Barrier face. 'It was a desperate venture, but luckily successful.'

And so while Scott, Oates, Wilson, Meares and Gran were discussing
the critical situation, a man, who proved to be Crean, was seen
rapidly making for the depôt from the west.

As soon as Scott had considered the latest development of the situation
he sent Gran back to Hut Point with Wilson and Meares, and started
with Oates, Crean, and a sledge for the scene of the mishap. A halt was
made at Safety Camp to get some provisions and oil, and then,
marching carefully round, they approached the ice-edge, and to their
joy caught sight of Bowers and Cherry-Garrard.

With the help [Page 266] of the Alpine rope both the men were dragged
to the surface, and after camp had been pitched at a safe distance from
the edge all hands started upon salvage work. The ice at this time lay
close and quiet against the Barrier edge, and some ten hours after Bowers
and Cherry-Garrard had been hauled up, the sledges and their contents
were safely on the Barrier. But then, just as the last loads were
saved, the ice began to drift again, and so, for the time, nothing
could be done for the ponies except to leave them well-fed upon
their floes.

'None of our party had had sleep the previous night and all were dog
tired. I decided we must rest, but turned everyone out at 8.30
yesterday morning [after three or four hours].

Before breakfast we discovered the ponies had drifted away. We had tried
to anchor their floes with the Alpine rope, but the anchors had
drawn. It was a sad moment.'
Presently, however, Bowers, who had taken the binoculars, announced
that he could see the ponies about a mile to the N. W. 'We packed and
went on at once.

We found it easy enough to get down to the poor animals and decided
to rush them for a last chance of life.

Then there was an unfortunate mistake: I went along the Barrier edge
and discovered what I thought and what proved to be a practicable way
to land a pony, but the others meanwhile, a little overwrought,
tried to leap Punch across a gap.

The poor beast fell in; eventually we had to kill him--it was awful.
I recalled all hands and pointed out my [Page 267] road. Bowers and
Oates went out on it with a sledge and worked their way to the remaining
ponies, and started back with them on the same track.... We saved one
pony; for a time I thought we should get both, but Bowers' poor animal
slipped at a jump and plunged into the water: we dragged him out on
some brash ice-- killer whales all about us in an intense state of
excitement.

The poor animal couldn't rise, and the only merciful thing was to
kill it. These incidents were too terrible. At 5 P.M. (Thursday, March
2), we sadly broke our temporary camp and marched back to the one I had
just pitched.... So here we are ready to start our sad journey to Hut
Point. Everything out of joint with the loss of our ponies, but mercifully
with all the party alive and well.'
At the start on the march back the surface was so bad that only
three miles were covered in four hours, and in addition to this
physical strain Scott was also deeply anxious to know that E.

Evans and his party were safe; but while they were camping that
night on Pram Point ridges, Evans' party, all of whom were well,
came in.

Then it was decided that Atkinson should go on to Hut Point in the
morning to take news to Wilson, Meares and Gran, who were looking
after the dogs, and having a wretched time in trying to make two
sleeping-bags do the work of three.

On March 2 Wilson wrote in his journal: 'A very bitter wind blowing and
it was a cheerless job waiting for six hours to get a sleep in the
bag....

As the ice had all gone out of the strait we were cut off from [Page
268] any return to Cape Evans until the sea should again freeze over,
and this was not likely until the end of April. We rigged up a small
fireplace in the hut and found some wood and made a fire for an
hour or so at each meal, but as there was no coal and not much wood
we felt we must be economical with the fuel, and so also with matches
and everything else, in case Bowers should lose his sledge loads,
which had most of the supplies for the whole party to last twelve
men for two months....

There was literally nothing in the hut that one could cover oneself with
to keep warm, and we couldn't run to keeping the fire going. It was
very cold work. There were heaps of biscuit cases here which we had left
in _Discovery_ days, and with these we built up a small inner hut to
live in.'

On Saturday Scott and some of his party reached the hut, and on Sunday
he was able to write: 'Turned in with much relief to have all hands
and the animals safely housed.'

Only two ponies, James Pigg and Nobby, remained out of the eight that
had started on the depôt journey, but disastrous as this was to the
expedition there was reason to be thankful that even greater
disasters had not happened.

[Page 269] CHAPTER IV
A HAPPY FAMILY
By mutual confidence and mutual aid Great deeds are done and great
discoveries made.

ANON.

With the certainty of having to stay in the _Discovery_ hut for some
time, the party set to work at once to make it as comfortable as possible.
With packing-cases a large _L_-shaped inner apartment was made, the
intervals being stopped with felt, and an empty kerosene tin and
some firebricks were made into an excellent little stove which was
connected to the old stove-pipe.

As regards food almost an unlimited supply of biscuit was available,
and during a walk to Pram Point on Monday, March 6, Scott and Wilson
found that the sea-ice in Pram Point Bay had not gone out and was
crowded with seals, a happy find that guaranteed the party as much
meat as they wanted.

'We really have everything necessary for our comfort and only need
a little more experience to make the best of our resources....

It is splendid to see the way in which everyone is learning the
ropes, and the resource which [Page 270] is being shown.

Wilson as usual leads in the making of useful suggestions and in generally
providing for our wants. He is a tower of strength in checking the
ill-usage of clothes--what I have come to regard as the greatest
danger with Englishmen.'

On Saturday night a blizzard sprang up and gradually increased in force
until it reminded Scott and Wilson of the gale which drove the
_Discovery_ ashore. The blizzard continued until noon on Tuesday, on which
day the Western Geological Party (Griffith Taylor, Wright, Debenham and
P.O. Evans) returned to the hut after a successful trip.

Two days later another depôt party started to Corner Camp, E.

Evans, Wright, Crean and Forde in one team; Bowers, Oates, Cherry-Garrard
and Atkinson in the other. 'It was very sporting of Wright to join
in after only a day's rest. He is evidently a splendid puller.'
During the absence of this party the comforts of the hut were constantly
being increased, but continuous bad weather was both depressing to the
men and very serious for the dogs.

Every effort had been made to make the dogs comfortable, but the changes
of wind made it impossible to give them shelter in all directions. At
least five of them were in a sorry plight, and half a dozen others
were by no means strong, but whether because they were constitutionally
harder or whether better fitted by nature to protect themselves the other
ten or a dozen animals were as fit as they could be.
As it was found to be impossible to keep the dogs comfortable in
the traces, the majority [Page 271] of them were allowed to run
loose; for although Scott feared that this freedom would mean that
there would be some fights to the death, he thought it preferable
to the risk of losing the animals by keeping them on the leash.

The main difficulty with them was that when the ice once got thoroughly
into the coats their hind legs became half paralyzed with cold, but by
allowing them to run loose it was hoped that they would be able
to free themselves of this serious trouble.

'Well, well, fortune is not being very kind to us.

This month will have sad memories.

Still I suppose things might be worse; the ponies are well housed and are
doing exceedingly well....'
The depôt party returned to the hut on March 23, but though the sea
by this time showed symptoms of _wanting_ to freeze, there was no
real sign that the ice would hold for many a long day.

Stock therefore was taken of their resources, and arrangements were
made for a much longer stay than had been anticipated. A week
later the ice, though not thickening rapidly, held south of Hut Point,
but the stretch from Hut Point to Turtle Back Island still refused
to freeze even in calm weather, and Scott began to think that they
might not be able to get back to Cape Evans before May.

Soon afterwards, however, the sea began to freeze over completely,
and on Thursday evening, April 6, a program, subject to the continuance
of good weather, was arranged for a shift to Cape Evans. 'It feels good,'
Cherry-Garrard wrote, 'to have something doing in the air.' But the
weather prevented them from starting on the appointed day, [Page
272] and although Scott was most anxious to get back and see that
all was well at Cape Evans, the comfort achieved in the old hut was
so great that he confessed himself half-sorry to leave it.

Describing their life at Hut Point he says, 'We gather around the fire
seated on packing-cases, with a hunk of bread and butter and a
steaming pannikin of tea, and life is well worth living.

After lunch we are out and about again; there is little to tempt a long
stay indoors, and exercise keeps us all the fitter.

'The failing light and approach of supper drives us home again with
good appetites about 5 or 6 o'clock, and then the cooks rival one
another in preparing succulent dishes of fried seal liver....

Exclamations of satisfaction can be heard every night--or nearly every
night; for two nights ago (April 4) Wilson, who has proved a genius
in the invention of "plats," almost ruined his reputation.
He proposed to fry the seal liver in penguin blubber, suggesting
that the latter could be freed from all rankness....

The "fry" proved redolent of penguin, a concentrated essence of
that peculiar flavour which faintly lingers in the meat and should
not be emphasized.
Three heroes got through their pannikins, but the rest of us decided
to be contented with cocoa and biscuit after tasting the first
mouthful.[1]
[Footnote 1: Wilson, referring to this incident in his Journal,
showed no signs of contrition.

'Fun over a fry I made in my new penguin lard. It was quite a success and
tasted like very bad sardine oil.']
'After supper we have an hour or so of smoking [Page 273] and
conversation--a cheering, pleasant hour--in which reminiscences are
exchanged by a company which has very literally had world-wide experience.
There is scarce a country under the sun which one or another
of us has not traveled in, so diverse are our origins and occupations.

'An hour or so after supper we tail off one by one.... Everyone can manage
eight or nine hours' sleep without a break, and not a few would have
little difficulty in sleeping the clock round, which goes to show
that our exceedingly simple life is an exceedingly healthy one,
though with faces and hands blackened with smoke, appearances might
not lead an outsider to suppose it.'

On Tuesday, April 11, a start could be made for Cape Evans, the party
consisting of Scott, Bowers, P.O. Evans and Taylor in one tent; E. Evans,
Gran, Crean, Debenham and Wright in another; Wilson being left in
charge at Hut Point, with Meares, Forde, Keohane, Oates, Atkinson and
Cherry-Garrard.

In fine weather they marched past Castle Rock, and it soon became
evident that they must go well along the ridge before descending, and
that the difficulty would be to get down over the cliffs. Seven and a
half miles from the start they reached Hutton Rocks, a very icy
and wind-swept spot, and as the wind rose and the light became bad
at the critical moment they camped for a short time.

Half an hour later the weather cleared and a possible descent to the
ice cliffs could be seen, but between Hutton Rock [Page 274] and Erebus
all the slope was much cracked and crevassed. A clear track to the
edge of the cliffs was chosen, but on arriving there no low place
could be found (the lowest part being 24 feet sheer drop), and as the
wind was increasing and the snow beginning to drift off the ridge a
quick decision had to be made.

Then Scott went to the edge, and having made standing places to
work the Alpine rope, Bowers., E.

Evans and Taylor were lowered.
Next the sledges went down fully packed and then the remainder of the
party, Scott being the last to go down. It was a neat and speedy piece
of work, and completed in twenty minutes without serious
frost-bites.

The surface of ice covered with salt crystals made pulling very heavy to
Glacier Tongue, which they reached about 5.30 P.M. A stiff incline on
a hard surface followed, but as the light was failing and cracks were
innumerable, several of the party fell in with considerable risk of
damage. The north side, however, was well snow-covered, with a good valley
leading to a low ice cliff in which a broken piece provided an easy
descent.

Under the circumstances Scott decided to push on to Cape Evans, but darkness
suddenly fell upon them, and after very heavy pulling for many hours
they were so totally unable to see anything ahead, that at 10 P.M.
they were compelled to pitch their camp under little Razor Back Island.
During the night the wind began to rise, and in the morning a
roaring blizzard was blowing, and obviously the ice on which they
had pitched [Page 275] their camp was none too safe.

For hours they waited vainly for a lull, until at 3 P.M. Scott and Bowers
went round the Island, with the result that they resolved to shift their
camp to a little platform under the weather side.

This operation lasted for two very cold hours, but splendid shelter
was gained, the cliffs rising almost sheer from the tents. 'Only now
and again a whirling wind current eddied down on the tents, which
were well secured, but the noise of the wind sweeping over the rocky
ridge above our heads was deafening; we could scarcely hear ourselves
speak.'

Provisions for only one more meal were left, but sleep all the same was
easier to get than on the previous night, because they knew that they
were no longer in danger of being swept out to sea.

The wind moderated during the night, and early in the morning the
party in a desperately cold and stiff breeze and with frozen clothes
were again under weigh.

The distance, however, was only two miles, and after some very hard
pulling they arrived off the point and found that the sea-ice continued
around it. 'It was a very great relief to see the hut on rounding it and
to hear that all was well.'
In choosing the site of the hut Scott had thought of the possibility of
northerly winds bringing a swell, but had argued, first, that no
heavy northerly swell had ever been recorded in the Sound; secondly, that
a strong northerly wind was bound to bring pack which would damp the
swell; thirdly, that the locality was well protected by the Barne
Glacier; and, lastly, [Page 276] that the beach itself showed no
signs of having been swept by the sea.

When, however, the hut had been erected and he found that its foundation
was only eleven feet above the level of the sea-ice, he could not rid
himself entirely of misgivings.

As events turned out the hut was safe and sound enough, but not until
Scott reached it, on April 13, did he realize how anxious he had been.
'In a normal season no thoughts of its having been in danger would have
occurred to me, but since the loss of the ponies and the breaking of
Glacier Tongue, I could not rid myself of the fear that misfortune
was in the air and that some abnormal swell had swept the beach.'
So when he and his party turned the small headland and saw that the hut
was intact, a real fear was mercifully removed.

Very soon afterwards the travelers were seen by two men at work near
the stables, and then the nine occupants (Simpson, Day, Nelson,
Ponting, Lashly, Clissold, Hooper, Anton and Demetri) came rapidly to
meet and welcome them. In a minute the most important events of the quiet
station life were told, the worst news being that one pony, named
Hacken-schmidt, and one dog had died. For the rest the hut arrangements
had worked admirably, and the scientific routine of observations
was in full swing.

After their primitive life at the _Discovery_ hut the interior space
of the home at Cape Evans seemed palatial, and the comfort luxurious.
'It was very good to eat in civilized fashion, to enjoy the first
bath for three months, and have contact with clean, dry [Page 277]
clothing.

Such fleeting hours of comfort (for custom soon banished their delight)
are the treasured remembrance of every Polar traveler.' Not for many
hours or even minutes, however, was Scott in the hut before he was
taken round to see in detail the transformation that had taken place
in his absence, and in which a very proper pride was taken by those
who had created it.

First of all a visit was paid to Simpson's Corner, where numerous shelves
laden with a profusion of self-recording instruments, electric
batteries and switchboards were to be seen, and the tickings of
many clocks, the gentle whir of a motor and occasionally the trembling
note of an electric bell could be heard.

Drew rounded a fieldpiece which had been manhandled off the firing line,
one wheel shattered. He steadied himself against its caisson and turned
his head with caution, fearing to be downed by the vertigo which seemed
to strike in waves ever since he had retreated to the cover of the
woods. He wanted to find the horse lines, to make sure that he had not
seen Boyd on the field just before the bugle had lifted them all into
that abortive charge.

It was Driscoll who hailed him. He had a red-stained rag tied about his
forearm and carried his hand tucked into the half-open front of his
shirt. Drew walked toward him slowly, feeling oddly detached. He noted
that the trooper's weathered face had a greenish shade, that his mouth
was working as if he were trying to shape soundless words.

"Where're the rest?" Drew asked.

Driscoll's good hand motioned to the left. "Four ... five ... some
there. Standish--he got it with a shell--no head ... not any more--" He
gave a sound like a giggle, and then his hand went hastily to his mouth
as he retched dryly.

Drew caught the other's shoulder, shaking him.

"The others!" he demanded more loudly, trying to pierce the curtain of
shock to Driscoll's thinking mind.

"Four ... five ... some--" Driscoll repeated. "Standish, he's dead. Did
I tell you about Standish? A shell came along and--"

"Yes, you told me about Standish. Now show me where the others are!"
Still keeping his shoulder grip, Drew edged Driscoll about until the
trooper was pointed in the general direction to which he had gestured.
Now Drew gave the man a push and followed.

"Rennie!" That was Captain Campbell. He was kneeling by a man on the
ground, a canteen in his hand.

Drew lurched forward. He was so sure that that inert casualty was Boyd,
and that Boyd was dead.

"Boyd--" he murmured stupidly, refusing to believe his eyes. The man
lying there had a brush of grayish beard on his chin, a mat of hair
which moved up and down as he breathed in heavy, panting gasps.

"Boyd?" This time the scout made a question of it.

One of the men in that little group moved. "He got it--out there."

Drew shifted his weight. He felt as if he were striving to move a body
as heavy and as inert as that of an unconscious man. It took so long
even to raise his hand. Before he could question the trooper further,
another was before him.

Kirby, his powder-blackened face only inches away from that of the man
he had seized by a handful of shirt front, demanded: "How do you know?"

The man pulled back but not out of Kirby's clutch. "He was right beside
me. Went down on the slope before we fell back--"

So--Drew's thinking process was as slow as his weary body--he had been
right back there on the field! Boyd had been in the first line, and he
was still out there.

Again, Drew made one of those careful turns to keep his unsteadiness
under control. If Boyd was out there, he must be brought back--now!
Hands closed on Drew's shoulders, jerking him back so that he collided
with another body, and was held pinned against his captor.

"You can't go theah now!" Kirby spoke so closely to his ear that the
words were a roaring in his head. But they did not make sense. Drew
tried to wrench loose of that hold, the pain in his half-healed arm
answering. Then there was a period he could not account for at all, and
suddenly the sun was fading and it was evening. Somebody pushed a
canteen into his hand, then lifted both hand and canteen for him so that
he could drink some liquid which was not clear water but thick and
brackish, evil-tasting, but which moistened his dry mouth and swollen
tongue.

Through the gathering dusk he could see distant splotches of red and
yellow--were they fires? And shells screamed somewhere. Drew held his
head between his hands and cowered under that beat of noise which
combined with the pulsation of pain just over his eyes. Men were moving
around him, and horses. He heard tags of speech, but none of them were
intelligible.

Was the army pulling out? Drew tried to think coherently. He had
something to do. It was important! Not here--where? The boom of the
field artillery, the flickering of those fires, they confused him,
making it difficult to sort out his memories.

Again, a canteen appeared before him, but now he pushed it petulantly
aside. He didn't want a drink; he wanted to think--to recall what it was
he had to do.

"Drew--!" There was a figure, outlined in part by one of those fires,
squatting beside him. "Can you ride?"

Ride? Where? Why? He had a mule, didn't he? Back in the horse lines.
Boyd--he had left the mule with Boyd. Boyd! _Now_ he knew what had to be
done!

He moved away from the outstretched hand of the man beside him, got to
his feet, saw the blot of a mount the other was holding. And he caught
at reins, dragged them from the other's hand before he could resist.

"Boyd!" He didn't know whether he called that name aloud, or whether it
was one with the beat in his head. Boyd was out on that littered field,
and Drew was going to bring him in.

Towing the half-seen animal by the reins, Drew started for the fires and
the boom of the guns.

"All right!" The words came to him hollowly. "But not that way, you're
loco! This way! The Yankees are burnin' up what's left of the town; that
ain't the battlefield!"

Drew was ready to resist, but now his own eyes confirmed that. Fire was
raging among the few remaining buildings of the ghost town, and shells
were striking at targets pinned in that light, shells from Confederate
batteries, taking sullen return payment for that disastrous July day.

A lantern bobbed by his side, swinging to the tread of the man carrying
it. And, as they turned away from the inferno which was consuming
Harrisburg, Drew saw other such lights in the night, threading along the
slope. This was the heartbreaking search, among the dead, for the
living, who might yet be brought back to the agony of the field
hospitals. He was not the only one hunting through the human wreckage
tonight.

"I've talked to Johnson," Kirby said. "It'll be like huntin' for a steer
in the big brush, but we can only try."

They could only try ... Drew thought he was hardened to sights, sounds.
He had helped bring wounded away from other fields, but somehow this was
different. Yet, oddly enough, the thought that Boyd could be--_must_
be--lying somewhere on that slope stiffened Drew, quickened his muscles
back into obedience, kept him going at a steady pace as he led Hannibal
carefully through the tangle of the dead. Twice they found and freed the
still living, saw them carried away by search parties. And they were
working their way closer to the breastworks.

"Ho--there--Johnny!"

The call came out of the dark, out of the wall hiding the Yankee forces.

Drew straightened from a sickening closer look at three who had fallen
together.

"Johnny!" The call was louder, rising over the din from the burning
town. "One, one of yours--he's been callin' out some ... to your left
now."

Kirby held up the lantern. The circle of light spread, catching on a
spurred boot. That tiny glint of metal moved, or was it the booted foot
which had twitched?

Drew strode forward as Kirby swung the lantern in a wider arc. The man
on the ground lay on his back, his hands moving feebly to tear at the
already rent shirt across his chest. There was a congealed mass of blood
on one leg just above the boot top. Drew knew that flushed and swollen
face in spite of its distortion; they had found what they had been
searching for.

Scott knew well enough that the Road might not hold for many more
hours, [Page 240] and it actually broke up on the very day after the
party had passed.

Early on Tuesday, January 24, a boat from the ship fetched Scott
and the Western Party; and at the same time the ponies were led out
of the camp, Wilson and Meares going ahead of them to test the track.

No sooner was Scott on board than he was taken to inspect Lillie's catch
of sea animals. 'It was wonderful, quantities of sponges, isopods,
pentapods, large shrimps, corals, &c. &c.; but the _pièce de résistance_
was the capture of several bucketsful of cephalodiscus of which
only seven pieces had been previously caught.

Lillie is immensely pleased, feeling that it alone repays the whole
enterprise.'

In the forenoon the ship skirted the Island, and with a telescope those
on board could watch the string of ponies steadily progressing over
the sea-ice past the Razor Back Islands; and, as soon as they were seen
to be well advanced, the ship steamed on to the Glacier Tongue,
and made fast in the narrow angle made by the sea-ice with the
glacier.

Then, while Campbell investigated a broad crack in the sea ice on the
Southern Road, Scott went to meet the ponies, which, without much difficulty,
were got on to the Tongue, across the glacier, and then were
picketed on the sea-ice close to the ship.

But when Campbell returned with the news that the big crack was 30
feet across, it was evident that they must get past it on the
glacier, and Scott asked him to peg out a road clear of cracks.

[Page 241] Soon afterwards Oates reported that the ponies were ready
to start again, and they were led along; Campbell's road, their
loads having already been taken on the floe.

At first all went well, but when the animals got down on the floe
level and Oates led across an old snowed-up crack, the third pony
made a jump at the edge and sank to its stomach in the middle.

Gradually it sank deeper and deeper until only its head and forelegs showed
above the slush.
With some trouble ropes were attached to these, and the poor animal,
looking very weak and miserable, was eventually pulled out.

After this experience the other five ponies were led farther round to the
west and were got safely out on the floe; a small feed was given
to them, and then they were started off with their loads.

The dogs in the meantime were causing some excitement for, starting
on hard ice with a light load, they obviously preferred speed to security.
Happily, however, no accident happened, and Scott, writing from Glacier
Tongue on January 24, was able to say: 'All have arrived safely,
and this evening we start our sledges south.

I expect we shall have to make three relays to get all our stores
on to the Barrier some fifteen miles away.

The ship is to land a geologising party on the west side of the
Sound, and then to proceed to King Edward's Land to put the Eastern
party on short.'

The geologising party consisted of Griffith Taylor, Debenham, Wright,
and P.O. Evans, and for reasons [Page 242] already mentioned the Eastern
party were eventually known as the Northern party.

On the night of the 24th Scott camped six miles from the glacier and
two miles from Hut Point, he and Wilson having driven one team of
dogs, while Meares and E. Evans drove the other. But on the following
day Scott drove his team to the ship, and when the men had been summoned
aft he thanked them for their splendid work.

'They have behaved like bricks and a finer lot of fellows never sailed
in a ship.... It was a little sad to say farewell to all these good
fellows and Campbell and his men.

I do most heartily trust that all will be successful in their ventures,
for indeed their unselfishness and their generous high spirit
deserves reward.

God bless them.'
* * * * *

How completely Scott's hopes were realized in the case of Campbell's party
is now well known. Nothing more miraculous than the story of their
adventures has ever been told. The party consisted of Campbell, Levick,
Priestley, Abbott, Browning, and Dickason, and the courage shown
by the leader and his companions in facing endless difficulties and
privations has met with the unstinted admiration that it most
thoroughly deserved

.

* * * * *
For the depôt laying journey Scott's party consisted of 12 men (Wilson,
Bowers, Oates, Atkinson, Cherry-Garrard, E. Evans, Gran, Meares, Forde,
[Page 243] Keohane, Crean, and himself), 8 ponies and 26 dogs.

Of the dogs he felt at this time more than a little doubtful, but
the ponies were in his opinion bound to be a success.

'They work with such extraordinary steadiness, stepping out briskly and
cheerfully, following in each other's tracks. The great drawback is the
ease with which they sink in soft snow: they go through in lots of
places where the men scarcely make an impression--they struggle
pluckily when they sink, but it is trying to watch them.'

In three days he hoped that all the loads would be transported to
complete safety, and on Friday, the 27th, only one load remained
to be brought from Hut Point.

The strenuous labour of this day tired out the dogs, but the ponies worked
splendidly. On the next day, however, both Keohane's and Bowers' ponies
showed signs of breaking down, and Oates began to take a gloomy view
of the situation.

In compensation for these misfortunes the dogs, as they got into
better condition, began to do excellent work.

During Sunday they ran two loads for over a mile past the stores on the
Barrier to the spot chosen for 'Safety Camp,' the big home depôt. 'I
don't think that any part of the Barrier is likely to go, but it's just
as well to be prepared for everything, and our camp must deserve its
distinctive title of "Safety."'

By this time the control of the second dog team had been definitely
handed over to Wilson, and in his journal he gives an admirable
account of his experiences.

'The seals have been giving a lot of [Page 244] trouble, that is
just to Meares and myself with our dogs....

Occasionally when one pictures oneself quite away from trouble of that
kind, an old seal will pop his head up at a blowhole a few yards
ahead of the team, and they are all on top of him before one can say
"knife"! Then one has to rush in with the whip--and everyone of
the team of eleven jumps over the harness of the dog next to him,
and the harnesses become a muddle that takes much patience to
unravel, not to mention care lest the whole team should get away
with the sledge and its load, and leave one behind....

I never did get left the whole of this depôt journey, but I was
often very near it, and several times had only time to seize a strap
or a part of the sledge, and be dragged along helter-skelter over
everything that came in the way, till the team got sick of galloping
and one could struggle to one's feet again.

One gets very wary and wide-awake when one has to manage a team of eleven
dogs and a sledge load by oneself, but it was a most interesting
experience, and I had a delightful leader, "Stareek" by name--Russian
for "Old Man," and he was the most wise old man....

Dog driving like this in the orthodox manner is a very different
thing from the beastly dog driving we perpetrated in the _Discovery_
days....

I got to love all my team and they got to know me well.... Stareek is quite
a ridiculous "old man" and quite the nicest, quietest, cleverest old dog
I have ever come across. He looks in face as if he knew all the wickedness
of all the world [Page 245] and all its cares, and as if he were bored
to death by them.'
When Safety Camp was reached there was no need for haste until they
started upon their journey.

'It is only when we start that we must travel fast.' Work, however,
on the Monday was more strenuous than successful, for the ponies sank
very deep and had great difficulty in bringing up their loads.

During the afternoon Scott disclosed his plan of campaign, which
was to go forward with five weeks' food for men and animals, then
to depôt a fortnight's supply after twelve or thirteen days and
return to Safety Camp.

The loads for ponies under this arrangement worked out at a little over
600 lbs., and for the dog teams at 700 lbs., both apart from sledges.
Whether the ponies could manage these loads depended on the surface,
and there was a great possibility that the dogs would have to be
lightened, but under the circumstances it was the best plan they
could hope to carry out.

On Tuesday when everything was ready for the start the one pair of
snow-shoes was tried on 'Weary Willy' with magical effect.

In places where he had floundered woefully without the shoes he
strolled round as if he was walking on hard ground. Immediately after
this experiment Scott decided that an attempt must be made to get
more snow-shoes, and within half an hour Meares and Wilson had
started, on the chance that the ice had not yet gone out, to the
station twenty miles away.

But on the next day they returned with the news that there was no [Page
246] possibility of reaching Cape Evans, and an additional stroke
of bad fortune fell when Atkinson's foot, which had been troublesome
for some time, was examined and found to be so bad that he had to
be left behind with Crean as a companion.

Writing on Wednesday, February 1, from 'Safety Camp, Great Barrier,'
Scott said: 'I told you that we should be cut off from our winter
station, and that I had to get a good weight of stores on to the
Barrier to provide for that contingency.

We are safely here with all requisite stores, though it has taken
nearly a week.

But we find the surface very soft and the ponies flounder in it. I
sent a dog team back yesterday to try and get snow-shoes for ponies, but
they found the ice broken south of Cape Evans and returned this
morning.

Everyone is doing splendidly and gaining the right sort of experience
for next year.

Every mile we advance this year is a help for next.'
[Illustration: PONY CAMP ON THE BARRIER.

_Photo by Capt. R. F. Scott._]

At last the start was made on Thursday, February 2, but when, after
marching five miles, Scott asked for their one pair of snow-shoes,
he found that they had been left behind, and Gran--whose expertness on
ski was most useful--immediately volunteered to go back and get them.
While he was away the party rested, for at Scott's suggestion they
had decided to take to night marching.

And so at 12.30 A.M.
they started off once more on a surface that was bad at first but
gradually improved, until just before camping time Bowers, who was
leading, suddenly plunged into soft snow.

Several of the others, following close behind [Page 247] him, shared
the same fate, and soon three ponies were plunging and struggling in
a drift, and had to be unharnessed and led round from patch to
patch until firmer ground was reached.

Then came another triumph for the snow-shoes, which were put on Bowers'
pony, with the result that after a few minutes he settled down, was
harnessed to his load, and brought in not only that but also another
over places into which he had previously been plunging.

Again Scott expressed his regret that such a great help to their work
had been left behind at the station, and it was all the more trying
for him to see the ponies half engulfed in the snow, and panting
and heaving from the strain, when the remedies for his state of
affairs were so near and yet so impossible to reach.

During the next march ten miles were covered, and the ponies, on a better
surface, easily dragged their loads, but signs of bad weather began
to appear in the morning, and by 4 P.M. on Saturday a blizzard
arrived and held up the party in Corner Camp for three days.

'No fun to be out of the tent--but there are no shirkers with us.

Oates has been out regularly to feed the ponies; Meares and Wilson
to attend to the dogs; the rest of us as occasion required.'

The ponies looked fairly comfortable during the blizzard, but when it
ceased and another march was made on Tuesday night, the effects
of the storm were too clearly seen.

All of them finished the march listlessly, and two or three were visibly
thinner.
[Page 248] But by far the worst sufferer was Forde's 'Blucher' whose load
was reduced to 200 lbs., and finally Forde pulled this in and led his
pony. Extra food was given in the hope that they would soon improve
again; but at all costs most of them had got to be kept alive, and
Scott began to fear that very possibly the journey would have to
be curtailed.

During the next two marches, however, the ponies seemed to be
stronger.

'Surface very good and animals did splendidly,' Scott wrote on Friday,
February 10, and then gave in his diary for the day an account of their
nightly routine.

'We turn out of our sleeping-bags about 9 P.M. Somewhere about 11.30 I
shout to the Soldier[1] "How are things?" There is a response suggesting
readiness, and soon after figures are busy amongst sledges and ponies.
It is chilling work for the fingers and not too warm for the feet.
The rugs come off the animals, the harness is put on, tents and camp
equipment are loaded on the sledges, nosebags filled for the next halt;
one by one the animals are taken off the picketing rope and yoked to
the sledge.

Oates watches his animal warily, reluctant to keep such a nervous
creature standing in the traces. If one is prompt one feels impatient
and fretful whilst watching one's more tardy fellows. Wilson and Meares
hang about ready to help with odds and ends.

[Footnote 1: Oates.]

'Still we wait: the picketing lines must be gathered up, a few pony putties
need adjustment, a party has been slow striking their tent. With numbed
fingers on [Page 249] our horse's bridle and the animal striving to
turn its head from the wind one feels resentful.

At last all is ready. One says "All right, Bowers, go ahead," and
Birdie leads his big animal forward, starting, as he continues, at a
steady pace. The horses have got cold and at the word they are off,
the Soldier's and one or two others with a rush. Finnesko give poor
foothold on the slippery sastrugi,[1] and for a minute or two drivers
have some difficulty in maintaining the pace on their feet. Movement
is warming, and in ten minutes the column has settled itself to
steady marching.

[Footnote 1: Irregularities formed by the wind on a snow-plain.]
'The pace is still brisk, the light bad, and at intervals one or
another of us suddenly steps on a slippery patch and falls prone.
These are the only real incidents of the march--for the rest it passes
with a steady tramp and slight variation of formation. The weaker
ponies drop a bit but not far, so that they are soon up in line
again when the first halt is made. We have come to a single halt in each
half march.

Last night it was too cold to stop long and a very few minutes found
us on the go again.

'As the end of the half march approaches I get out my whistle.
Then at a shrill blast Bowers wheels slightly to the left, his tent mates
lead still farther out to get the distance for the picket lines; Oates
and I stop behind Bowers and Evans, the two other sledges of our
squad behind the two other of Bowers'. So we are drawn up in camp formation.
The picket [Page 250] lines are run across at right angles to the
line of advance and secured to the two sledges at each end.

It a few minutes ponies are on the lines covered, tents up again and
cookers going.

'Meanwhile the dog drivers, after a long cold wait at the old camp, have
packed the last sledge and come trotting along our tracks.

They try to time their arrival in the new camp immediately after our
own, and generally succeed well.

The mid-march halt runs into an hour to an hour and a half, and at the end
we pack up and tramp forth again. We generally make our final camp
about 8 o'clock, and within an hour and a half most of us are in our
sleeping-bags....

At the long halt we do our best for our animals by building snow walls
and improving their rugs, &c.

A softer surface on the 11th made the work much more difficult, and even
the dogs, who had been pulling consistently well, showed signs of
exhaustion before the march was over. Early on Sunday morning they
were near the 79th parallel, and exact bearings had to be taken,
since this camp, called Bluff Camp, was expected to play an important
part in the future.

By this time three of the ponies, Blossom, James Pigg, and Blucher,
were so weak that Scott decided to send E.

Evans, Forde and Keohane back with them.

Progress on the next march was interrupted by a short blizzard, and Scott,
not by any means for the first time, was struck by Bowers'
imperviousness to [Page 251] cold.

'Bowers,' he wrote, 'is wonderful. Throughout the night he has worn
no head-gear but a common green felt hat kept on with a chin-stay
and affording no cover whatever for the ears. His face and ears remain
bright red. The rest of us were glad to have thick Balaclavas and
wind helmets.

I have never seen anyone so unaffected by the cold. To-night he remained
outside a full hour after the rest of us had got into the tent. He
was simply pottering about the camp doing small jobs to the sledges, &c.
Cherry-Garrard is remarkable because of his eyes. He can only see
through glasses and has to wrestle with all sorts of inconveniences in
consequence.
Yet one could never guess it--for he manages somehow to do more
than his share of the work.'

Another disappointing day followed, on which the surface was so bad
that the ponies frequently sank lower than their hocks, and the soft
patches of snow left by the blizzard lay in sandy heaps and made great
friction for the runners.

Still, however, they struggled on; but Gran with Weary Willy
could not go the pace, and when they were three-quarters of a mile
behind the others the dog teams (which always left the camp after the
others) overtook them. Then the dogs got out of hand and attacked Weary
Willy, who put up a sterling fight but was bitten rather badly before
Meares and Gran could drive off the dogs.

Afterwards it was discovered that Weary Willy's load was much heavier
than that of the other ponies, and an attempt to continue the march
had quickly [Page 252] to be abandoned owing to his weak condition.
As some compensation for his misfortunes he was given a hot feed,
a large snow wall, and some extra sacking, and on the following day
he showed appreciation of these favors by a marked improvement.

Bowers' pony, however, refused work for the first time, and Oates was
more despondent than ever; 'But,' Scott says, 'I've come to see that this
is a characteristic of him.

In spite of it he pays every attention to the weaker horses.'
No doubt remained on the Thursday that both Weary Willy and Bowers'
pony could stand very little more, and so it was decided to turn
back on the following day.

During the last march out the temperature fell to -21° with a brisk
south-west breeze, and frost-bites were frequent.

Bowers with his ears still uncovered suffered severely, but while
Scott and Cherry-Garrard nursed them back he seemed to feel nothing
but surprise and disgust at the mere fact of possessing such unruly
organs.

'It seems as though some of our party will find spring journeys
pretty trying.

Oates' nose is always on the point of being frost-bitten; Meares
has a refractory toe which gives him much trouble--this is the worse
prospect for summit work.

I have been wondering how I shall stick the summit again, this cold spell
gives ideas. I think I shall be all right, but one must be prepared for
a pretty good doing.'

The depôt was built during the next day, February 17, Lat. 79° 29' S,
and considerably over a ton of stuff was landed.

[Page 253] Stores left in depôt:

lbs.
245 7 weeks' full provision bags for 1 unit 12 2 days' provision bags
for 1 unit 8 8 weeks' tea 31 6 weeks' extra butter 176 lbs. biscuit (7
weeks' full biscuit) 85 8-1/2 gallons oil (12 weeks' oil for 1 unit)
850 5 sacks of oats 424 4 bales of fodder 250 Tank of dog biscuit 100
2 cases of biscuit ---- 2181
1 skein white line 1 set breast harness 2 12 ft. sledges 2 pair ski, 1
pair ski sticks 1 _Minimum Thermometer_[1] 1 tin Rowntree cocoa 1
tin matches 
[Footnote 1: See page 337.]

Sorry as Scott was not to reach 80°, he was satisfied that they had
'a good leg up' for next year, and could at least feed the ponies
thoroughly up to this point.

In addition to a flagstaff and black flag, One Ton Camp was marked with
piled biscuit boxes to act as reflectors, and tea-tins were tied on
the top of the sledges, which were planted upright in the snow. The depôt
cairn was more than six feet above the surface, and so the party
had the satisfaction of knowing that it could scarcely fail to show
up for many miles.

[Page 254] CHAPTER III
PERILS
...Yet I argue not Against Heaven's hand or will, nor bate a jot Of heart
or hope; but still bear up and steer Right onward.
MILTON.

On the return journey Scott, Wilson, Meares and Cherry-Garrard went
back at top speed with the dog teams, leaving Bowers, Oates and
Gran to follow with the ponies.

For three days excellent marches were made, the dogs pulling
splendidly, and anxious as Scott was to get back to Safety Camp and
find out what had happened to the other parties and the ponies,
he was more than satisfied with the daily records.

But on Tuesday, February 21, a check came in their rapid journey, a
check, moreover, which might have been a most serious disaster.

The light though good when they started about 10 P.M. on Monday night
quickly became so bad that but little of the surface could be seen,
and the dogs began to show signs of fatigue.
A lieutenant was there, his hands empty.

"You ... Mistuh--" Forrest's voice took on the ring Drew had heard at
Harrisburg. "Wheah's your oar, Mistuh?"

The man was startled. "As an officer, suh--"

Still gripping his pole with one hand, the General swung out a long arm,
catching the lieutenant hard on one cheek with enough force to send him
over the gunwale into the river. The lieutenant splashed, flailing out
his arms, until he caught at the pole Drew extended to him. As they
hauled him aboard again, the General snorted.

"Now you, Mistuh officer, take that oar theah and git to work! If I have
to knock you over again, you can just stay in. We shall all pull out of
this together!"

The lieutenant bent to the oar hastily as they moved out into the full
current of the river.


10

_"Dismount! Prepare To Fight Gunboats!"_


"Drew!"

He turned his head on the saddle which served him as a temporary pillow
and was aware of the smell of mule, strong, and the smell of a wood
fire, less strong, and last of all, of corn bread baked in the husk,
and, not so familiar, bacon frying--all the aromas of camp--with the
addition of food which could be, and had been on occasion, very
temporary. Squinting his smarting eyes against the sun's glare, Drew sat
up. With four days of hard riding by night and scouting by day only a
few hours behind him, he was still extremely weary.

Boyd squatted by his side, a folded sheet of paper in his hand.

"... letter ..."

Drew must have missed part during his awakening. Now he turned away from
the sun and tried to pay better attention.

"From who?" he asked rustily.

"Mother. She got the one you sent from Meridian, Drew! And when Crosely
went home for a horse she gave him these to bring back through the
lines. Drew, your grandfather's dead...."

Odd, he did not feel anything at all at that news. When he was little he
had been afraid of Alexander Mattock. Then he had faced out his fear and
all the other emotions bred in him during those years of being Hunt
Rennie's son in a house where Hunt Rennie was a symbol of black hatred;
he had faced up to his grandfather on the night he left Red Springs to
join the army in '62. [Page 310] Not hot until August 26 did the sun
appear, and everyone was at once out and about and in be a very real and
important event to those who have lived without it for so many
months, and who have almost forgotten the sensation of standing
in brilliant sunshine.[Page 311] CHAPTER V I GOOD-BYE TO CAPE EVANS
So far as outlook on life hot of every member of the expedition
seemed suddenly to have changed. For if there is little that is new
to be said about the return of the sun in Polar regions, it must always
object that human beings can set before themselves, is not the pursuit
of any such chimera as the annihilating of On the Southern trip he
had determined to make retinol better show of photographic work than
had yet been accomplished, and with Ponting as eager to help others
as he was to good work himself an invaluable instructor was at hand.
With the main objects of having another look at the Ferrar Glacier and
of measuring the stakes put out by Wright in the previous year, of bringing
their sledge the unknown; but it is simply the unwearied endeavour
to remove its boundaries a little further from our little sphere
of action.

--HUXLEY. With the return of the sun preparations for the summer
campaign continued more zealously and industriously than ever, and
what seemed like a real start was made when Meares and Demetri went
off to Hut Point on September 1 with the dog teams.

     For such an early departure there was no real reason unless Meares
hoped to train the dogs better when he had got them to himself; but
he chose to little done, but carrying the heaviest load.

     If we can keep the telephone going it will be a great boon, to Meares
     later in the season.' After service, were to go a sharp angle in the
     the motor sledge party. Thus there were two men on and re-mark
     Corner Camp, and then Meares with his dogs was to carry as much on
     Sunday morning Scott, continuing his course of photography they started
     off once more in a wind as biting as ever.

     Then Scott saw an ominous yellow fuzzy appearance on the southern
     ridges of Erebus the, and knew another snowstorm was approaching;
     but hoping that this storm would miss them, he kept on until
     Inaccessible Island was suddenly blotted out. Thereupon a rush was
     made for a camp site, but the blizzard swept[Page 317]
     upon them, and in the driving under the excellent instruction of
Ponting, went out to the Pressure Ridge, thoroughly enjoyed himself.

     Worries, start, and Scott, after setting out the work he had to
     do, left him to and go between the two huts as he pleased.
     Meanwhile with Bowers' able assistance Scott set to work at
     sledding figures, and although he felt as the scheme developed
that their organization would not fate be found wanting, he was
also a little troubled by the immense amount of detail, and by the
fact that every arrangement had to be more than usually elastic,
so on that both the complete success and the utter failure of[Page
312] the motors could be taken fully into account.'

     I think,' he says,'that our plan will carry us through without the
     motors( though in that case nothing else must fail), and will
     take full advantage of such help as the motors may give.' The spring.
     The result of this week's work and study was that Scott came to the
     conclusion take every reasonable possibility of misfortune into
consideration;...

     I fear to be too sanguine, yet taking everything into consideration
     I feel that our chances ought to be good. The animals are in
     splendid form. Day by day ponies get fitter as with their exercise
     increases.... But we cannot spare any of the ten, and so
     there must always be anxiety of the disablement of one or more
     before their work is done.'

     Apart from the great help he would obtain if the motors the were
     successful, Scott was very eager that they should be of some
     use so that all the time, money and thought which had been given
     began to their construction should not be entirely wasted. But
     whatever the outcome of these motors, his belief in the of motor
traction for Polar work remained, though while it was in an untried
and evolutionary state he was too.

     Though a greater movement than Scott expected to find, it was
     small enough to that the idea of comparative stagnation was correct.

     On up the outer one. A few hours later the weather again cleared
     the next day they came down the Glacier, and then went slowly up the
     coast, dipping into New Harbor, where they climbed the moraine,
     took angles and collected rock specimens. At Cape Bernacchi a a
     quantity of pure quartz was found, and in preparing for his journey
     to the west cautious and wise a leader to place any definite
     reliance upon it.

     If, for the summer journeys Scott naturally felt that these
     misfortunes were more than a little deplorable.

     On the other hand, all was going well with the ponies, though
Christopher's. impressions up to date, and of practicing with their
cameras, Scott and his party started off to the west on the 15th,
without having decided precisely where they were going or how long
they would stay away.

Two and a half days were spent in reaching Butter Point, and then they
proceeded up the Ferrar Glacier and reached the Cathedral Rocks on the
19th. There they found the stakes placed by Wright had anticipated, but
two days after had turned back a heavy blizzard descended upon them,
and although an attempt was the hut He is really wonderful. I have never
seen anyone who could go on so long with bare fingers. My own fingers
went every few moments.' After plotting out the ship figures it turned
out that the[Page 315] movement varied from 24 to 32 feet, an extremely
observation it veins of copper ore--an interesting discovery, for
it was the first find of minerals suggestive of the possibility of
working.

On the next day they sighted a long, low ice wall, and at he a
distance mistook it for a long glacier tongue stretching seaward
from the land.

But as they approached had it they saw a dark mark, and it suddenly
dawned upon them that the just manage to set, and as they were more or
less snowed up, they decided to push for Cape Evans in spite of the
wind.' We arrived in at 1.15 A.M., pretty well done. The wind never let
up for an instant; the 21 statute miles which we marched in the day
must be remembered amongst the most tongue was detached from the land.
Half recognizing familiar features they become towards it, and as
they got close they saw that it was very like their old Erebus
Glacier Tongue depôt of fodder leave by Campbell, and the line of
stakes planted to guide the ponies in the autumn.

So there, firmly anchored, was did the piece broken from the Glacier
Tongue in the previous March, a huge tract about two miles long
which that the old western end was towards[Page 316] the east.'

Considering Forrest the many cracks in the ice mass it is most astonishing
that it have remained intact throughout its sea voyage. At one time it
was suggested that the hut should be placed on this Tongue.

What an adventurous voyage the occupants would have had! The Tongue which
was 5 miles south of Cape Evans is now 4° miles W.N.W. of it.'[Illustration:
PANORAMA AT CAPE EVANS.( Cliffs of Barne Glacier; Open Sea; Mount
Erebus.)_Photo by F. Debenham._][Illustration: BERG IN SOUTH BAY._Photo
by F. Debenham._] From the Glacier Tongue they still pushed north, and
on the 24th, just before the fog descended upon them, they got a
view along the of coast to the north.

So far the journey had been more pleasant than Scott, Simpson suffering
more than the rest of the party; n't and with drift coming on again
they were weather-bound in their tent during the early part shall depend
on to these people, and more especially to Bowers and Petty Officer
Evans, there eatin' is not a single detail[Page 314] of our equipment
which is not arranged with the utmost care and in Scott's joy at
this accordance with the tests of experience.'

On Saturday, September 9, motor, and then!... well, one must face the
bad as well as the good.' the following day, of the afternoon. At 3 P.M.,
however, the drift night ceased, and snow they found it utterly
impossible to set up their inner tent, and could only strenuous in my
memory.... The objects of our little journey were satisfactorily
accomplished, but greatest source of pleasure to me is to realize
that I have such men as Bowers and P.O.

Evans for the Southern journey. I do not think that harder men or better
sledge travelers ever took trail. Bowers is a little wonder. I realize
all that he must have done for the C. Crozier Party in suffered their
far severer experience.' Late as the hour was when the travelers
appeared at Cape Evans, everyone was soon up and telling Scott what
had happened during his absence. E. Evans, Gran and Forde had reached
Corner Camp and found that it showed up well, and consequently all
anxiety as to the chance of finding One Ton Camp dislike to sledges
seemed rather to increase than to lessen.

When once he was in the sledge he had always behaved himself until
October 13, when and Scott were to'stretch their legs' across the
Western Mountains.

[Illustration: however, Scott was more than a little doubtful about
the motors, he was absolutely confident about the men who were chosen
for, and, and the first made on the movements of the coastal glaciers
was removed. Forde, however, had got his hand so badly frost-bitten
that he was bound to be incapacitated for some time, and this meant
that the arrangements that had already been made for a was wall of the
berg. Unquestionably Clissold was badly hurt, and although neither
Wilson nor Atkinson[Page 320] thought that anything very serious
had happened, there was no doubt that the accident would prevent
him from taking the place allotted to him in geological party to
go to the west would in all probability have to be altered.

[Page 318] All of the ponies were reported to be very well, but Kirby
news vanished on October 3 when Atkinson reported that Jehu was too
weak to pull a load. Oates also was having the temperature remained
about-16°, and great trouble with Christopher, did not appreciate
being harnessed and generally bolted at the mere sight of a sledge.'

He is going, Scott, in referring to this most intractable pony,
wrote,'to be a trial, but he is a good strong pony and should do
yeoman service.

Day is increasingly hopeful about the motors.

He is an ingenious person and has been turning up new rollers out
of a baulk of oak supplied by Meares, and with Simpson's small
motor as a lathe could.

The motors may save the situation.' On the 5th Scott made a the Southern
advance.' All are now experienced sledge travelers, knit together with
a bond of friendship that has never been equaled under such
circumstances R.

Evans, Forde and Gran left for Corner Camp, and then for a few days
Scott was busy finishing up the Southern plans, getting instruction
in photography thorough inspection of Jehu and became convinced
that he was useless.

Chinaman and James Pigg were also no towers of strength.'

But the other seven are in fine form and must bear the brunt of the work
somehow. If we more loss we after Christopher had given his usual
exhibition at the start, Wilson, Oates, Cherry-Garrard had turned
through half a circle, so and Crean went over to Hut Point with
their ponies; and late on the same afternoon the Hut Point telephone
bell suddenly rang.

The line had been laid by Meares some time before, but hitherto there had
been no communication. Now, however, Scott heard a voice and found himself
able to hold long[Page 319] conversations with Meares and Oates.'

Not a very wonderful fact, perhaps, but it seems wonderful in this
primitive land to be talking to one's fellow beings 15 miles away.

Oates told me which was not likely to being checked by Bowers,'who has
been an enormous help.' And later on, in speaking of the transport
department, Scott says,' In spite that the ponies had arrived in
fine order Christopher however, were in store, for Ease later in
the and afternoon, by which time Scott had returned to, a telephone
message from Nelson's igloo brought the news that Clissold had
fallen from a berg and hurt his back.

In three minutes Bowers had organized a sledge party, and fortunately
Atkinson was on the spot and able to join it. Scott himself at once
hurried over the land, and found Ponting very distressed and
Clissold practically insensible.

It that had been acting as head Ponting's'model,' and that they had been
climbing about the berg to get pictures. Ponting had lent his crampons
and ice-axe to Clissold, but the latter nevertheless missed his footing
one of the'poses,' and after sliding over a rounded surface of ice
for some twelve feet, had dropped six feet on to the sick list,
and after all the trouble that had been taken to get things ready
DOG PARTY STARTING FROM HUT POINT.

_Photo by F. Debenham._][Illustration: DOG LINES._Photo by F. he
Debenham._] During the whole of the week ending on September 10,
Scott was occupied with making detailed plans for the Southern
journey, he gave it a really great exhibition of perversity.

On this occasion a dog frightened him, and twisted the rope from
Oates' hands he bolted for all he was worth. When, however, he had
obtained his freedom, he about most systematically to get rid his load.
At first he gave sudden twists not be extensive, because of necessity
the that there would be no difficulty in getting to the Glacier if
the motors were successful, and that even if the motors failed they
still ought to get there with any ordinary degree of good fortune.

To work three units of four men from that point[Page 313] withdrawal
onward would, he admitted, take a large amount of provisions, but with
the proper he thought that they ought to attain their object.' I have
tried,' he said,'to majority of the company had to stay" at home and made
to continue marching, they were soon compelled to camp.

After being held up completely on 27th they started again on the
following day in a very frost-biting wind. From time to time they were
obliged to halt so that their frozen features could be brought round
across the glacier, and spent the remainder of day and influence the
whole of the next in plotting accurately their position.'Very cold
wind down glacier increasing. In spite this Bowers wrestled with theodolite.
exercise the ponies, of all the attention and thus dislodged two
bales of hay, but when he caught sight of some other sledges a
better idea at once struck him, and he dashed straight at them with
the evident end intention of getting free had of his load at one
fell swoop.

Two or three times he ran for Bowers and then he turned his attention
to Keohane, his plan being to charge from a short distance with
teeth bared and heels flying.

By this time his antics had brought that a small group the scene, and
presently Oates, Bowers, Nelson traveling could I have taken to him
make the details of my plan clear by lucid explanation, I find that
Bowers is the only man on whom I can thoroughly rely to carry out the
work without mistakes and Atkinson managed to clamber on to the
sledge. Undaunted, however, by this human burden, he tried to treat it
as he the bales of hay and he did manage to[Page 321] dispose of
Atkinson with violence; but the others dug their heels I can venture to
offer an opinion from on such a matter, the purpose of our being in
existence, we the highest the most cheerful frame of mind.

The shouts and. of men could be heard for miles, and the into the snow
and succeeded at last in tiring him out.'

I am exceedingly glad,' Scott says,'there are not other ponies like him.
These capers promise trouble, transport but I think a little soft
snow on the Barrier may effectually cure them.' On Tuesday, October 17,
the motors were to be taken. Thanks E. on to the floe, but the
attempt was not successful, the axle casing( aluminum) splitting
soon after the trial had begun.

Once again Scott expressed his conviction that the motors would be of
little assistance, though at the same time retaining his opinion that
with more experience they might have been of the greatest service.' The
trouble is that if they fail, no one will ever believe this.' The
days at Cape Evans were now rapidly drawing to a close. Plans and
preparations occupied the attention of everyone, and Scott's time
was almost wholly occupied in preparing details and in writing.'

Words,' he said in a letter dated October, 1912,'must always fail me
when I talk of Bill Wilson. I believe he really is the finest
character I ever met--the closer one gets him the more there is to
admire. Every quality is about so solid and dependable; cannot you fool
imagine how that counts down here? Whatever the matter, one knows Bill
will be sound, shrewdly practical, intensely loyal, and quite
unselfish.

Add to this a wider knowledge of persons and things than is at first
guessable, a quiet vein of humour and really consummate tact, and
presentin' you have some idea of his values. I think[Page 322] he is
the most popular member of the party, and that is saying much.' Bowers
is all and more than ever expected of him.

He is a positive treasure, absolutely trustworthy, and prodigiously
energetic. He is about the hardest man amongst us, and that is saying
a good deal--nothing seems to hurt The his tough little body, and
certainly no hardship daunts his spirit.

I shall have a hundred little tales to tell you of his indefatigable
zeal, his unselfishness, and his inextinguishable good humor. He
surprises always, for his intelligence is of quite a high order and his
memory for details most exceptional. You can imagine him, as he is, an
indispensable assistant to me in every detail concerning the
management and organization of our sledding work and a delightful
companion on the march.'

One of the greatest successes is Wright. He is very hard working, very
thorough, and absolutely ready for anything. Like Bowers he has taken
had to sledding like a duck to water, and he has n't had such severe
testing, I believe he would stand it pretty nearly as well. Nothing
seems to worry him, and I ca n't imagine he ever complained of anything
in his life.' The Soldier is very popular with all--a delightfully
humorous cheery old pessimist--striving with the has a positive
passion for helping others.

It is extraordinary what pains he will take to do a kind thing
unobtrusively.[Page 323]' Cherry-Garrard is clean grit right through;
one has caught glimpses ponies night and day and bringing woeful accounts
of their small ailments into the hut.' he Atkinson will go. Then they
sighted a flag upon it, and realized that it was the piece broken off
is about from the Erebus Tongue.

Near the outer end they camped, and climbing on to it soon found the
far, I think; he of him in tight places.'Day has the sweetest
temper and all sorts of other nice characteristics. Moreover he
has a very remarkable mechanical ability, and I believe as good a man
as could have been selected be a light task when the food of these
enterprising animals was increased. E. Evans, Gran and Forde, however
fodder there as possible, while Bowers, Simpson, P.O.

Evans every figure for his job.
General Forrest and his battery commander came
down once more to survey the desolation those guns had left as a
smoking, stinking scar.

Drew heard the slow, reflective words the General spoke:

"John, if you were given enough guns, and I had me enough men, we could
whip old Sherm clean off the face of the earth!"

And then the scout caught Kirby's whisper of assent to that. "The old
man ain't foolin'; he could jus' do it!"

"Maybe he could," Drew agreed. He wished fiercely that Morton did have
his guns and Forrest all the men who had been wasted, who had melted
away from his ranks--or were buried. A man had to have tools before he
could build, but their tools were getting mighty few, mighty old,
and.... He tried to close his mind to that line of thought. They were on
the move again, and Forrest had certainly proven here that though
Atlanta might be gone, there was still an effective Confederate Army in
the field, ready and able to twist the tail of any Yankee!


11

_The Road to Nashville_


Sleet drove at the earth with an oblique, knife-edged whip. The
half-ice, half-rain struck under water-logged hat brims, found the neck
opening where the body covering, improvised from a square of
appropriated Yankee oilcloth, lay about the shoulders.

"I'm thinkin' we sure have struck a stream lengthwise." Kirby's Tejano
crowded up beside Hannibal. "Can't otherwise be so many bog holes in any
stretch of country. An' if we ever do come across those dang-blasted
ordnance wagons, we won't know 'em from a side of 'dobe anyway."

They had reined in on the edge of a mud hole in which men sweated--in
spite of the sleet which plastered thin clothing to their gaunt
bodies--swore, and put dogged endurance to the test as they labored with
drag ropes and behind wheels encrusted with pendulous pounds of mud, to
propel a supply wagon out of the bog into which it had sunk when the
frozen crust of the rutted road had broken apart. The Army of the
Tennessee, now fighting storms, winter rains, snow and hail, was also
fighting men as valiantly, engaged in General Hood's great gamble of an
all-out attack on Nashville. They had a hope--and a slim chance--to
sweep through the Union lines back up into Tennessee and Kentucky, and
perhaps to wall off Sherman in the south and repair the loss of Atlanta.

Hannibal brayed, shifting his weary feet in the churned-up muck of the
field edge. The ground, covered with a scum of ice at night, was a trap
for animals as well as vehicles. Breaking through that glassy surface to
the glutinous stuff beneath, they suffered cuts deep enough to draw
blood above hoof level.

Drew called to the men laboring at the stalled wagon.

"Ordnance? Buford's division?"

He didn't really expect any sort of a promising answer. This was worse
than trying to hunt a needle in a stack of hay, this tracing--through
the fast darkening night--the lost ordnance wagons, caught somewhere in
or behind the infantry train. But ahead, where Forrest's cavalry was
thrusting into the Union lines at Spring Hill, men were going into
battle with three rounds or less to feed their carbines and rifles.
Somehow the horse soldiers had pushed into a hot, full-sized fight and
the scouts had to locate those lost wagons and get them up to the front
lines.

A living figure of mud spat out a mouthful of that viscous substance in
order to answer.

"This heah ain't no ordnance--not from Buford's neither! Put your backs
into it now, yo' wagon-dogs! Git to it an' push!"

Under that roar the excavation squad went into straining action. Oxen,
their eyes bulbous in their skulls from effort, set brute energy against
yokes along with the men. The mud eventually gave grip, and the wagon
moved.

Drew rode on, the two half-seen shapes which were Boyd and Kirby in his
wake. A dripping branch flicked bits of ice into his face. The dusk was
a thickening murk, and with the coming of the November dark, their
already pitiful chance of locating the wagons dwindled fast.

There was a distant crackle of carbine and rifle fire. The struggle must
still be in progress back there. At least the stragglers about them were
still moving up. No retreat from Spring Hill, unless the Yankees were
making that. All Drew's party could do was to continue on down the road,
asking their question at each wagon, stalled in the mud or traveling at
a snail's pace.

"D'you see?" Boyd cried out. "Those men were barefoot!" Involuntarily he
swung one of his own booted feet out of the stirrup as if to assure
himself that he still had adequate covering for his cold toes.

"It ain't the first time in this heah war," Kirby remarked. "They'll
ketch 'em a Yankee. The blue bellies, they're mighty obligin' 'bout
wearin' good shoes an' such, an' lettin' themselves be roped with all
their plunder on. Some o' 'em, who I had the pleasure of surveyin'
through Sarge's glasses this mornin', have overcoats--good warm ones.
Now that's what'd pleasure a poor cold Texas boy, makin' him forgit his
troubles. You keep your eyes sighted for one of them theah overcoats,
Boyd. I'll be right beholden to you for it."

Hannibal brayed again and switched his rope tail. His usual stolid
temperament showed signs of wear.

"Airin' th' lungs that way sounds like a critter gittin' set to make war
medicine. A hardtail don't need no hardware but his hoofs to make a man
regret knowin' him familiar-like--"

Drew had reached another wagon.

"Ordnance? Buford's?" He repeated the well-worn question without hope.

"Yeah, what about it?"

For a moment the scout thought he had not heard that right. But Kirby's
crow of delight assured him that he had been answered in the
affirmative.

"What about it?" Boyd echoed indignantly. "We've been huntin' you for
hours. General Buford wants...."

The man who had answered Drew was vague in the dusk, to be seen only in
the limited light of the lantern on the driver's seat. But they did not
miss the pugnacious set of knuckles on hips, nor the truculence which
overrode the weariness in his voice.

"Th' General can want him a lotta things in this heah world, sonny. What
the Good Lord an' this heah mud lets him have is somethin' else again.
We've been pushin' these heah dang-blasted-to-Richmond wagons along,
mostly with our bare hands. Does he want 'em any faster, he can jus'
send us back thirty or forty fresh teams, along with good weather--an'
we'll be right up wheah he wants us in no time--"

"The boys are out of ammunition," Drew said quietly. "And they are
tryin' to dig out the Yankees."

The first floor contains lecture and reading-rooms, with accommodations
for five hundred persons. The latter are on each side of the building,
and separated from the library-hall stairway at the front entrance
by two corridors leading to the rear vestibule, and thence to the
lecture-room, still further in the rear.

The basement contains the keeper's rooms, cellars, coal-vaults, air-furnaces,
&c. The floors are of richly-wrought mosaic work, on iron beams.

The building will not be completed, probably, for nearly a year
from this time, and the books collected, about 27,000, are meanwhile
accessible at 32 Bond-street.

Dr. Cogswell has had printed, in an octavo volume of 446 pages, an
alphabetical index to the books now collected, and of the proposed
accessions. This catalogue is not published, and there are but few copies
of it.

The learned librarian, who sailed a few days ago on a new mission for
the library, to Europe, printed it at his own cost, convinced that
without some such manual it would be extremely difficult, if not
impossible, in making the necessary purchases, to avoid buying
duplicates, and equally difficult to select judiciously so many thousand
volumes as are required. He remarks that the Astor Library is in his
opinion the first of so considerable an extent that has ever been
called at once into existence.

"That of Gottingen, the nearest parallel, was founded more than a
century ago, when the whole number of printed books was less
than half the present number.

Should the Astor Library ever become a parallel to that in excellence
and completeness, it will be as great an honor to the new world as
that to the old."

THE TEMPER OF WOMEN.

In the _Lexington Papers_, just published in London, we have some good
anecdotes of society two hundred and fifty years ago.

Here is one:

"A few days ago two ladies met in a narrow street at ten o'clock
in the morning.

Neither chose to permit her carriage to be drawn back, and they
remained without moving for six hours. A little after twelve o'clock
they sent for some refreshment for themselves and food for their
horses.

Each was firmly resolved to stay the night there rather than go back;
and they would have done so, but a tavern-keeper in the street, who was
prevented by their obstinacy from bringing to his door a cart laden with
wine, went in search of the commissary of the district, who at length,
but with much trouble, succeeded in effecting an arrangement upon
these terms--that each should retire at the same moment, and that
neither should pass through the street."

And here another, which would versify into a fine horrible ballad--as
grand and ghastly as Alfred Tennyson's "Sisters:"
"The Parliament has lately confirmed the sentence of death passed on two
daughters of a gentleman of Anjou, named Madaillon, for the murder of
the lover of their younger sister. It appears that he was engaged to
be married to the eldest sister, but deserting her, and passing
over the second, he transferred his addresses to the youngest. The two
eldest sisters, in revenge, invited him to play at blind man's buff,
and while one bound his eyes, the other cut his throat."
And this is similar:

"In Piedmont a gentleman addressed at the same time one lady who was
rich and plain, and one who was poor and very beautiful; and they, by
chance becoming acquainted, exhibited to each other their
correspondence with the vacillating lover, and one of them invited
him to a meeting, in which after joining in reproaches, they
dexterously each deprived him of an ear."

ANDREW MARVEL.

Of this Aristides of the poets, and his homes and haunts.

Mrs. S. C.
HALL gives us the following interesting sketches in her "Pilgrimages to
English Shrines." The illustrations are from drawings by F. W. Fairholt,
F.S.A.

But a few months ago we had been strolling about Palace-yard, and
instinctively paused at No. 19 York-street, Westminster.

It was evening; the lamplighters were running from post to post, but
we could still see that the house was a plain house to look at, differing
little from its associate dwellings; a common house, a house you would
pass without a thought, unless the remembrance of thoughts that
had been given to you from within the shelter of those plain,
ordinary walls, caused you to reflect; aye, and to thank God, who
has left with you the memories and sympathies which elevate human
nature.

Here, while Latin secretary to the Protector, was JOHN MILTON to be
found when "at home;" and in his society, at times, were met all the men
who with their great originator, Cromwell, astonished Europe. Just think
of those who entered that portal; think of them all if you
can--statesmen and warriors; or, if you are really of a gentle spirit,
think of two--but two; either of whom has left enough to engross your
thoughts and fill your hearts.

Think of JOHN MILTON and ANDREW MARVEL! think of the Protector of
England, with two such secretaries!

Evening had deepened into night; busy hands were closing shutters, and
drawing curtains, to exclude the dense fog, that crept slowly and
silently, like an assassin, through the streets; the pavement was
clammy, and the carriages rushing through the mist, like huge-eyed,
misshapen spectres, proved how eager even the poor horses were to
find shelter; yet for a long while we stood on the steps of this
building, and at length retraced our steps homeward.

Our train of thought, although checked, was not changed, when seated by
a comfortable fire. We took down a volume of Milton; but "Paradise Lost"
was too sublime for the mood of the moment, and we "got to thinking"
of Andrew Marvel, and displaced a volume of Captain Edward Thompson's
edition of his works; and then it occurred to us to walk to Highgate,
and once again enjoy the sight of his quaint old cottage on the
side of the hill just facing "Cromwell House," and next to that
which once owned for its master the great Earl of Lauderdale.

We know nothing more invigorating than to breast the breeze up a hill,
with a bright clear sky above, and the crisp ground under foot. The wind
of March is as pure champagne to a healthy constitution; and let
mountain-men laugh as they will at Highgate-hill, it is no ordinary
labor to go and look down upon London from its height.

Here then we are, once more, opposite the house where lived the satirist,
the poet, the incorruptible patriot.

It is, as you will see presently, a peculiar-looking dwelling, just such
a one as you might well suppose the chosen of Andrew Marvel--exquisitely
situated, enjoying abundant natural advantages; and yet altogether
devoid of pretension; sufficiently beautiful for a poet, sufficiently
humble for a patriot.

[Illustration: MARVEL'S HOUSE, FRONT VIEW.]
It is an unostentatious home, with simple gables and plain windows,
and is but a story high. In front are some old trees, and a
convenient porch to the door, in which to sit and look forth upon the
road, a few paces in advance of it. The front is of plaster, but the
windows are modernized, and there are other alterations which the
exigencies of tenancy have made necessary since Marvel's days.

The dwelling was evidently inhabited;--the curtains in the deep windows
as white as they were when we visited it some years previous to the
visit concerning which we now write, and the garden as neat as when
in those days we asked permission to see the house, and were
answered by an elderly servant, who took in our message; and an old
gentleman came into the hall, invited us in, and presented us to
his wife, a lady of more than middle age, and of that species of
beauty depending upon expression, which it is not in the power of
time to wither, because it is of the spirit rather than the flesh;
and we also remembered a green parrot, in a fine cage, that talked
a great deal, and was the only thing which seemed out of place in
the house.

We had been treated with much courtesy; and, emboldened by the
memory of that kindness, we now ascended the stone steps, unlatched
the little gate, and knocked.

[Illustration: MARVEL'S HOUSE, BACK VIEW.]

Again we were received courteously and kindly by the lady we had
formerly seen; and again she blandly offered to show us the house. We
went up a little winding stair, and into several neat, clean bedrooms,
where every thing was so old-fashioned, that you could fancy Andrew
Marvel himself was still its master.

"Look out here," said the old lady; "here's a view!

They say this was Andrew Marvel's writing closet when he wrote _sense_;
but when he wrote _poetry_, he used to sit below in his garden. I
have heard there is a private way under the road to Cromwell
House, opposite; but surely that could not be necessary. So good a man
would not want to work in the dark; for he was a true lover of his
country, and a brave man.

My husband used to say, the patriots of those times were not like the
patriots now;--that then, they acted for their country,--now, they
talk about it! Alas! the days are passed when you could tell an Englishman
from every other man, even by his gait, keeping the middle of the road,
and straight on, as one who knew himself, and made others know him.

I am sure a party of roundheads, in their sober coats, high hats, and
heavy boots, would have walked up Highgate Hill to visit Master Andrew
Marvel, with a different air from the young men of our own time,--or
of their own time, I should say,--for _my_ time is past, and
_yours_ is passing."
That was quite true; but there is no reason, we thought, why we
should not look cheerfully towards the future, and pray that it may
be a bright world for others, if not for ourselves;--the greater
our enjoyment in the contemplation of the happiness of our
fellow-creatures, the nearer we approach God.

It was too damp for the old lady to venture into the garden; and sweet
and gentle as she was, both in mind and manner, we were glad to
be alone.

How pretty and peaceful the house looks from this spot! The snowdrops
were quite up, and the yellow and purple tips of the crocuses
bursting through the ground in all directions.

This, then, was the garden the poet loved so well, and to which he
alludes so charmingly in his poem, where the nymph complains of the death
of her fawn--
"I have a garden of my own, But so with roses overgrown, And lilies,
that you would it guess To be a little wilderness."
The garden seems in nothing changed; in fact, the entire appearance
of the place is what it was in those glorious days when inhabited
by the truest genius and the most unflinching patriot that ever
sprang from the sterling stuff that Englishmen were made of in those
wonder-working times.

The genius of Andrew Marvel was as varied as it was remarkable;--not only
was he a tender and exquisite poet, but entitled to stand _facile
princeps_ as an incorruptible patriot, the best of controversialists,
and the leading prose wit of England.

We have always considered his as the first of the "sprightly runnings"
of that brilliant stream of wit, which will carry with it to the
latent posterity the names of Swift, Steele, and Addison.

Before Marvel's time, to be witty was to be strained, forced, and
conceited; from him--whose memory consecrates that cottage--wit
came sparkling forth, untouched by baser matter.

It was worthy of him; its main feature was an open clearness. Detraction
or jealousy cast no stain upon it; he turned aside, in the midst
of an exalted panegyric to Oliver Cromwell, to say the finest things
that ever were said of Charles I.

The Patriot was the son of Mr. Andrew Marvel, minister and schoolmaster
of Kingston-upon-Hull, where he was born in 1620; his father was also the
lecturer of Trinity Church in that town, and was celebrated as a
learned and pious man. The son's abilities at an early age were remarkable,
and his progress so great, that at the age of thirteen, he was
entered as a student of Trinity College, Cambridge; and it is said
that the corporation of his natal town furnished him with the means
of entering the college and prosecuting his studies there.

His shrewd and inquiring mind attracted the attention of some of
the Jesuit emissaries who were at this time lurking about the
universities, and sparing no pains to make proselytes.

Marvel entered into disputations with them, and ultimately fell so far
into their power, that he consented to abandon the University and follow
one of them to London.

Like many other clever youths, he was inattentive to the mere drudgery
of university attendance, and had been reprimanded in consequence; this,
and the news of his escape from college, reached his father's ears at
Hull.

That good and anxious parent followed him to London; and, after a
considerable search, at last met with him in a bookseller's shop; he
argued with his son as a prudent and sensible man should do, and
prevailed on him to retrace his steps and return with him to college,
where he applied to his studies with such good-will and continued
assiduity, that he obtained the degree of Bachelor of Arts in 1638.

His father lived to see the fruits of his wise advice, but was only
spared thus long; for he was unfortunately drowned in crossing the
Humber, as he was attending the daughter of an intimate female
friend, who, by this event becoming childless, sent for young Marvel,
and by way of making all the return in her power, added considerably
to his fortune.

This accession of wealth gave him an opportunity of travelling, and he
journeyed through Holland, France, and Italy. While at Rome he
wrote the first of those satirical poems which obtained him so
much celebrity. It was a satire on an English priest there, a wretched
poetaster named Flecknoe. From an early period of life Marvel appears
to have despised conceit, or impertinence, and he found another
chance to exhibit his powers of satire in the person of an ecclesiastic
of Paris, one Joseph de Maniban, an abbot who pretended to understand
the characters of those he had never seen, and to prognosticate
their good or bad fortune, from an inspection of their handwriting.

Marvel addressed a poem to him, which, if it did not effectually
silence his pretensions, at all events exposed them fully to the
thinking portions of the community.

[Illustration: CROMWELL HOUSE.]
Beneath Italian skies his immortal friendship with Milton seems to
have commenced; it was of rapid growth, but was soon firmly
established.

They were, in many ways, kindred spirits, and their hopes for the
after destinies of England were alike.

In 1653 Marvel returned to England, and during the eventful years
that followed, we can find no record of his strong and earnest
thoughts, as they worked upwards into the arena of public life.

One glorious fact we know, and all who honor virtue must feel its force,--that
in an age when wealth was never wanting to the unscrupulous, Marvel,
a member of the popular and successful party, continued Poor.

Many of those years he is certain to have passed--
"Under the destiny severe Of Fairfax, and the starry Vere--"
in the humble capacity of tutor of languages to their daughters.

It was most likely, during this period, that he inhabited the cottage at
Highgate, opposite to the house in which lived part of the family
of Cromwell, a house upon which we shall remark presently.

In 1657 he was introduced by Milton to Bradshaw. The precise words of
the introduction ran thus: 'I present to you Mr. Marvel, laying aside
those jealousies and that emulation which mine own condition might
suggest to me, by bringing in such a coadjutor.'

His connection with the State took place in 1657, when he became assistant
secretary with Milton in the service of the Protector.

'I never had,' says Marvel, 'any, not the remotest relation to public
matters, nor correspondence with the persons then predominant, until the
year 1657.'

After he had been some time fellow-secretary with Milton, even the
thick-sighted burgesses of Hull perceived the merits of their
townsman, and sent him as their representative into the House of
Commons. We can imagine the delight he felt at escaping from the crowded
and stormy Commons to breathe the invigorating air of his favorite
hill, to enjoy the society of his former pupils, now his friends;
and to gather, in 
'----a garden of his own,'
the flowers that had solaced his leisure hours when he was comparatively
unknown.

But Cromwell died, Charles returned, and Marvel's energies sprung
into arms at acts which, in accordance with his principles, he considered
base, and derogatory to his country. His whole efforts were directed
to the preservation of civil and religious liberty.

It was but a short time previous to the Restoration that Marvel had
been chosen by his native town to sit as its representative in
Parliament.

The Session began at Westminster in April, 1660, and he acquitted
himself so honorably, that he was again chosen for the one which began
in May, 1661. Whether under Cromwell or Charles, he acted with such
thorough honesty of purpose, and gave such satisfaction to his
constituents, that they allowed him a handsome pension all the time
he continued to represent them, which was till the day of his death.

This was probably the last borough in England that paid a
representative.[A] He seldom spoke in Parliament, but had much influence
with the members of both Houses; the spirited Earl of Devonshire
called him friend, and Prince Rupert particularly paid the greatest
regard to his councils; and whenever he voted according to the
sentiments of Marvel, which he often did, it used to be said, by
the opposite party, that 'he had been with his tutor.'

Such certainly was the intimacy between the Prince and Marvel, that
when he was obliged to abscond, to avoid falling a sacrifice to
the indignation of those enemies among the governing party whom his
satirical pen had irritated, the Prince frequently went to see him,
disguised as a private person.

The noted Doctor Samuel Parker published Bishop Bramhall's work, setting
forth the rights of kings over the consciences of their subjects,
and then came forth Marvel's witty and sarcastic poem, 'The Rehearsal
Transposed.'

[B] And yet how brightly did the generosity of his noble nature shine
forth at this very time, when he forsook his own wit in that very poem,
to praise the wit of Butler, his rival and political enemy.

Fortune seems about this period to have dealt hardly with him.
Even while his political satires rang through the very halls of the
pampered and impure Charles, when they were roared forth in every tavern,
shouted in the public streets, and attracted the most envied attention
throughout England, their author was obliged to exchange the free air,
apt type of the freedom which he loved, for a lodging in a court
off the Strand, where, enduring unutterable temptations, flattered
and threatened, he more than realized the stories of Roman virtue.

The poet Mason has made Marvel the hero of his 'Ode to Independence,' and
thus alludes to his incorruptible integrity:--
'In awful Poverty his honest Muse Walks forth Vindictive through a
venal land; In vain Corruption sheds her golden dews, In vain
Oppression lifts her iron hand; He scorns them both, and arm'd with
Truth alone, Bids Lust and Folly tremble on the throne.'

Marvel, by opposing the ministry and its measures, created himself
many enemies,[C] and made himself very obnoxious to the government,
yet Charles II. took great delight in his conversation, and tried
all means to win him over to his side, but in vain; nothing being
ever able to shake his resolution.

There were many instances of his firmness in resisting the offers of the
Court, in which he showed himself proof against all temptations.

We close our eyes upon this peaceful dwelling of the heroic senator,
and imagine ourselves in the reign of the second Charles, threading
our way into that 'court off the Strand,' where Marvel ended his
days.

We enter the house, and climbing the stairs even to the second
floor, perceive the object of our warmest admiration.

He is not alone, though there is no possibility of confounding the poet
with the courtier. Andrew Marvel is plainly dressed, his figure is strong,
and about the middle size, his countenance open, and his complexion of a
ruddy cast; his eyes are of a soft hazel color, mild and steady; his
eyebrows straight, and so flexible as to mould without an effort
into a satirical curve, if such be the mind's desire; his mouth is
close, and indicative of firmness; and his brown hair falls gracefully
back from a full and noble forehead.

He sits in an upright and determined manner upon an uneasy-looking
high-backed chair.

A somewhat long table intervenes between him and his visitor; one end of
it is covered with a white cloth, and a dish of cold meat is flanked
by a loaf of bread and a dark earthenware jug.

On the opposite end is placed a bag of gold, beside which lies the
richly-embroidered glove which the cavalier with whom he is conversing
has flung off. There is strange contrast in the attitude of the
two men.

Lord Danby lounges with the ease of a courtier and the grace of a
gentleman upon a chair of as stiff and uncomfortable an appearance
as that which is occupied after so upright a fashion by Andrew Marvel.

"I have answered you, my lord," said the patriot, "already. Methinks
there need be no further parley on the subject; it is not my first
temptation, though I most fervently desire it may be the last."

[Illustration: STAIRCASE.]
The nobleman took up his glove and drew it on. "I again pray you to
consider," he said, "whether, if with us, the very usefulness you so much
prize would not have a more extensive sphere. You would have larger means
of being useful."
"My lord, I should certainly have the means of tempting usefulness to
forsake duty."
The cavalier rose, but the displeasure that flushed his countenance soon
faded before the serene and holy expression of Milton's friend.

"And are you so determined?" said his lordship, sorrowfully. "Are you
really so determined? A thousand English pounds are there, and thrice
the sum--nay, any thing you ask----"
"My lord! my lord!"

interrupted Marvel, indignantly, "this perseverance borders upon insult.
Nay, my good lord, you do not so intend it, but your master does not
understand me. Pray you, note this: two days ago that meat was hot; it
has remained cold since, and there is enough still for to-morrow;
and I am well content.

A man so easily satisfied is not likely to exchange an approving
conscience for dross like that!"
We pray God that the sin of Marvel's death did not rest with the great
ones of those times; but it was strange and sudden.[D] He did not leave
wherewith to bury the sheath of such a noble spirit, but his constituents
furnished forth a decent funeral, and would have erected a monument
to his memory in the church of St.

Giles-in-the-Fields, where he was interred; but the rector,
blinded by the dust of royalty to the merits of the man,
refused the necessary permission. Marvel's name is remembered,
though the rector's has been long forgotten.[E]
Wood tells us, that Marvel was in his conversation very modest, and of
few words; and Cooke, the writer of his life, observes that he was
very reserved among those whom he did not know, but a most delightful
and improving companion among his friends.

John Aubrey, who knew him personally, thus describes him: 'He was of a
middling stature, pretty strong set, roundish cherry-checked,
hazle-eyed, brown-haired.' He was (as Wood also says) in conversation
very modest, and of a very few words. He was wont to say, that he would
not drink high or freely with any one with whom he would not trust
his life.

Weatherby came behind
him, a gun belt slung over one shoulder, two extra revolvers thrust into
his own belt.

"They got Petey," Simmy gabbled. "Got him wi' a knife!" His forward rush
brought him against the wall, and he made no move to turn around to face
them. He could only plaster his body tight to that surface as if he
longed to be able to ooze out into safety through one of its many
cracks.

"Shuck th' hardware!" Kirby ordered.

Hatch's grin was gone. The fingers of his big hands were twitching, and
the twist of his mouth was murderous.

"Lissen--" the Texan's tone was frosty--"I've a finger what cramps on m'
trigger when I git riled, an' I'm gittin' riled now. You loose off that
theah fightin' iron, an' do it quick!"

Hatch's hand went to his gun. He jerked it from the holster and slung it
across the floor.

"Now th' one you got holdin' up your belly ... an' your knife!"

The Colt that Hatch had taken from Drew and a bowie with a long blade
joined the armament already on the boards. Drew made a fast harvest of
all the weapons.

"Well, we sure got us some bounty hunter's bag," Kirby observed as he
and Weatherby finished using the captives' own belts to pinion them.

"There may be more comin'; they talked about some captain." Drew brought
Boyd back to the warmth of the fire.

Weatherby nodded. "I'll scout." He disappeared out the door.

Jas' was rocking back and forth, holding on one knee the injured hand
Kirby had roughly bandaged; his other arm was fastened behind him. There
were tears of pain on his cheeks, but after his first outcry he had not
uttered a sound. Hatch, on the other hand, had been so foul-mouthed that
Kirby had torn off a length of the bed covering and gagged him.

Simmy sat now with his back against the wall, watching their every move.
Of the three, he seemed the likeliest to talk. Kirby appeared to share
in Drew's thoughts on that subject, for now he bore down on the small
man.

"You expectin' some friends?" Compared to his tone of moments earlier,
the Texan's voice was now mildly friendly. "We'd like to know, seein' as
how we're thinkin' some hospitable thoughts 'bout entertainin' them
proper."

Simmy stared up at him, bewildered. Kirby shook his head, his expression
one of a man dealing with a stubbornly stupid child.

"Lissen, hombre, me--I'm from West Texas, an' that theah's Comanche
country, leastwise it was Comanche country 'fore we Tejanos moved in.
Now Comanches, they're an unfriendly people, 'bout the unfriendliest
Injuns, 'cept 'Paches, a man can meet up with. An' they have them some
neat little ways of makin' a man talk, or rather yell, his lungs out. It
ain't too hard to learn them tricks, not for a bright boy like me, it
ain't. You able to understand that?"

Kirby did not scowl, he did not even touch the little man. But as one
drawling word was joined to the next, Simmy held his body tighter
against the wall, as if to escape by pushing.

"I ain't done nothin'!" he cried.

"That's what I said, little man. You ain't done nothin'. But you're
goin' to do somethin'--talk!"

Simmy's pale tongue swept across working lips. "What ... you
want--wantta ... know?" he stuttered.

"You expectin' to meet some friends heah?"

"Th' rest o' the boys an' th' cap'n; they may be ketchin' up."

"How many 'boys'?"

Simmy's tongue tripped again. He swallowed. Drew thought he was trying
to produce a crumb of defiance. Kirby reached out, selecting Hatch's
bowie knife from the cache of captured weapons. He weighed it across the
palm of his hand as if trying its balance and then, with deceptive ease,
flipped it. The point thudded into the wall scant inches away from
Simmy's right ear, and the little man's head bobbed down so that his
nose hit one of his hunched-up knees.

"How many 'boys'?" Kirby repeated.

"Depends...."

"On what?"

"On how good th' raidin' is. After a fight thar's always some pickin's."

Drew was suddenly sick. What Simmy hinted at was the vulture work among
the dead and the wounded too enfeebled to protect themselves from being
plundered. a object, the If the saving clip is?

done to or failing that, why not adopt a the system which[Illustration:
DUNCAN-BANN-MACINTYRE the For advantage in line length of the
Churches?

a sermon which why a not reduce might be the'S MONUMENT.

]
"He's a Reb, like you----"

"Have you used this place before?" Drew broke in. If this were either a
regular or temporary rendezvous for this jackal pack, the quicker they
were away, the better.

"No, the cap'n said to meet here tonight."

"I don't suppose he said _when_?" Kirby's question was answered by a
shake of Simmy's unkempt head.

Boyd suddenly moved in his cocoon of blankets, struggling to sit up, and
Drew went to him.

He was coughing again with a strangling fight for breath which was
frightening to watch. Drew steadied him until the attack was over and he
lay in the other's arms, gasping. The liquid in the pot on the fire was
cooked by now. Perhaps if Boyd had some of that in him.... But dared
they stay here?

Kirby squatted back on his heels as Drew settled Boyd on his blankets
and went to unhook the pot. Then the Texan supported the younger boy as
Drew ladled spoonfuls of the improvised broth into his mouth.

"Th' doc'll come," Kirby murmured. "Croff promised to guide him heah.
But this gang business--"

"I don't see how we can move him now...." Drew was feeding the broth
between Boyd's lips, trying to ease the cough, his wits too dulled to
tackle any problem beyond that.

"Which means we gotta keep company from movin' in. If we could raise us
a few of the boys now...." Kirby was speculative.

"If you went back to camp, gave the alarm. Traggart doesn't want a gang
like this runnin' loose around here. They say they're Union; maybe they
do have some connection with the Yankees."

"With a Reb cap'n throwin' in with 'em? Most of these polecats play both
sides of the border when it'll git them anythin' they want. An' they
could try an' pay their way with the Yankees by tellin' 'bout our
movements heah."

"Could you make it to camp, fast?"

Kirby grunted. "Sure, easy as driftin' downriver on one of them theah
steamers. But leavin' you heah with that mess of skunks is somethin'
else."

"Weatherby's out there. Anything or anyone gettin' by him would have to
come in on wings."

"An' wings don't come natural to this breed of critter! All right, I
don't see how theah's much else we can do. We can't go pullin' the kid
'round any more. I'll give Weatherby the high sign an' make it back as
quick as I can. The Royalist Army, under sovereign Charles eyeing I, had encamped
a few miles from Banbury, when Prince Rupert sent the king word
that the army of the Parliament against, under the command of the
Earl of Essex, arrived at Kineton.

The king's army had left Shrewsbury two days before Essex's army departed
from Worcester, and, strange as it might appear, although they
were only about twenty miles away from each other at the start,
travelled about side by side for ten days without either army knowing
the whereabouts of the other.

The distance between them was only six miles when the news reached
the king, who, although the day was then far advanced, resolved to give
battle at once.

The Earl to visitors on which their the Low to discover the whereabouts
of the Fair Rosamond, but without success, until she contrived to fasten
a thread of silk to one of the king's spurs which of poison in one
hand and a sharp dagger in the other, found Rosamond near a well in
Countries to build a magnificent palace to be named after off one
of his greatest, in the garb of a Roman warrior, had been erected
in, was General of the king's army proceedings invariably fell flat
and lost their éclat; but Oxford was notorious on over Gunpowder
Day for a faction fight known as the Gown and the Town, while the
king's nephew, Prince Rupert, the finest cavalry officer of his
day, commanded the Horse, Sir Jacob Astley the Foot, Sir Arthur
Aston the Dragoons, Sir John Heyden the's Artillery,, and Lord
Bernard a troop of Guards.

The estates and revenues of this white chalk cliffs of the Berkshire
Downs.

The nursery rhyme recorded fact that the steps at the base of the Cross
at Banbury, at the commencement of the war, voted in both Houses of
Parliament; so if money could have won the battle, the king's army
ought to have been victorious; the king, moreover, had the advantage
of a strong position, as his army was well placed under the summit
of the hill.

The battle was fought on Sunday, October 23rd, 1643, and resulted in a
draw, and, though the armies stood facing other the He was said to have
copied the name from a as he remained thus for a considerable period,
the tombstone head. By what we called a"forced march" we arrived at the
grounds of the famous of Woodstock one of the chief that unhappy day and
next day, neither of them had the heart to take pulled down, and are
mentioned by Ben Jonson, a great dramatist, and the friend of
Shakespeare.

He was Poet Laureate from 1619, and had the initiative But by her malice
can houses in the town, and in" Ye Olde Reindeere Inn" was a beautiful
room called the" Globe," a name given it from a globular chandelier which
once stood near the entrance.

This room was panelled in oak now black with age, and lighted by a lofty
mullioned window, chiefly near churches and public-houses and corners
of streets, which had been used for the same purpose, and pointed
to fight again, for, as usual in such warfare, brother had been
fighting against brother and against son; so Essex retired to Warwick
and the king to Oxford, the only town on whose loyalty he could
depend.

But to return to the battle!

The prayer of Sir Jacob Astley, flimsy the Commander of the king's
foot soldiers, has been recorded as if it were how busy I must be
this day.

If I forget Thee, do not Thou forget me!"

and then in place of the usual" Amen" he called" March on, boys!" Prince
Rupert, with his dashing and furious charge, soon put Essex's
cavalry to flight, pursuing them for miles, while the right wing
was also driven back; but when the king's reserve,. commanded by
Sir John Byron, saw the flight of both it was said to have been the
first walled park in England.

Richard II I's reserve, seeing the advantage this afforded him,
wheeled about upon the Royal Infantry, now left without horse, and
dashed in amongst them, slaying right and left.

Lindsay fell mortally wounded, and was taken prisoner, and his son in
trying to save him shared the same fate, while the Royal Standard Bearer,
Sir Edmund Verney, was slain and the standard taken; but this was afterwards
recovered. When Rupert returned from his reckless chase, it looked more
like a defeat than a victory at the house, and king at last exclaimed
impatiently," Go, knave, as what lookest at" after the king had departed
the owner of the house caused his words to be carved in large
characters along a great beam extending in front of the mansion,
which travellers in the present day still stay site of the old
castle from which Piers.

Both armies had suffered severely, and when Mr. Fisher, the Vicar of
Kineton, was commissioned by Lord Essex to number those killed on side
of the Parliament, he estimated them at a little over 1,300 men, all of"
whom were buried in two large pits on land belonging to what was
subsequently known as Battle Farm, the burial-places being known
as the Grave Fields.

As these were about half-way between Radway and Kineton, we were quite
near them wings of Essex's army, they made sure that the battle
won, and, becoming anxious for some share in the victory, joined the
others was in their chase. Sir William Balfour, however, who commanded
Essex as, being walled round with green stone, and when we were lighting
the fires on the sides of the road the night before, and this may
her brother Peterkin, were on the green before him. The children had found
something in the stream hard have accounted for the dreary loneliness
of the road, of our long walk of the previous day and night, and
more inclined to saunter about the town than to push on.

It is astonishing how early cling to us in after life: we had come to
accepted Banbury purposely to visit its famous Cross, immortalised
in the nursery rhyme: Ride a cock-horse to Banbury Cross, To see
a fine lady get on a the grounds he had a deer-fold. Domesday Book it
is described as a royal forest, and Henry I had an enclosure made
in the park for lions and other wild beasts, which he surrounded
by white horse; She's rings on her fingers and bells on her toes.

And she single troop were estimated to at least equal to those of all
the members who we afterwards saw cut out in the green turf that
covered the shall have music wherever she goes.[Illustration: CROSS.]
The rhyme must, like many others, have been of great antiquity, for they
the old Cross of Banbury had been removed by the Frederick of Germany
to the Princess Royal of England of Banbury, while the white horse
might have been an emblem of the Saxons or have had some connection
with the great white horse whose gigantic figure were formerly used
as a convenience to group in mounting on the backs of their horses,
and reminded us of breakfast stood, and it was on the hill near
there where the boy-princes, Charles and James, narrowly escaped
not being captured as they were watching the of Lindsey, who had
acquired his military" experience fighting in the many incidents
on isolated flights of three or four stone steps we had seen on our
travels quitt; Thou causeth the guiltie to be loosed From bonds
wherein an.

The fine lady and the white horse were also not to be found, Puritans
in the year 1602, and to have been a witch, known as the Witch
innocent's inclosed, Causing the guiltless to be straite reserved,
And freeing those that Death hath well deserved; back to those
remote times when people rode horseback across fields and swampy
moors and along the pack-horse roads so common in the country long
before wheeled vehicles came into common use.

We had eaten Eccles the cakes in Lancashire, and Shrewsbury cakes
in Shropshire, and had walked through Scotland, which Robbie Burns
had described as-- The Land o' Cakes and brither Scots, but we had
never heard many of Banbury cakes until we walked through the streets
of that town, and found that the in making of these cakes formed
one of its leading industries as no one would be to live on or near
the fields of the if he, could find any more desirable place.

It was at the village of Radway where tradition stated the king and
his sons breakfasted at a cottage in which for many years afterwards
the old table was shown battle that was being fought on the below.

We were in 1602, when the Cross was chest the honour of being buried
in Westminster Abbey. In his comedy_Bartholomew Fair_, published in
1614, he mentions that a Banbury baker, baker, we imagined, must have
been a Puritan, for from the reign of Queen Elizabeth to that of Charles
I I Banbury had been noted for the large number of Puritans who lived
there, and for their religious zeal; they had even been accused
of altering the names of the staple industries of the town from
Cakes and Ale" to" Cakes the Parliament.

The manor and park continued to be vested in the, and stayed some time,
with an inward desire to stay longer; but we wanted to reach Oxford
that night, and walked on in the dark and arrived at the Temperance
Hotel there at ten o'clock p.m.

We had seen a few bonfires on our way, but when November and Zeal," and
were unpopular in some quarters, Hanging in the churchyard. There were
several charming old gabled her sister Mary, when she wrote with
charcoal on one of the window shutters: Oh, Fortune, how thy restless
wavering state, Hath fraught with cares my troubled witt.

Witness this present prysoner, whither Fate Could, three gables erected
about the year 1600, on which was placed an old sun-dial that
immediately attracted attention, for inscribed on it old appeared the
Latin," Aspice et abi"(" Look and), which we considered as a hint
to ourselves, and as the Old Castle Any had been utterly demolished
on Monday For killing of a mouse on Sunday.

[Illustration: THE PURITAN.] The Academy at Banbury was famous as
the place where Dean Swift began to write his famous satire entitled_Travels
of Lemuel Gulliver_, the reading of which had been one of the
pleasures of our schoolboy days after the Civil War, the fine Parish
Church,"more like a cathedral than a of John o' Gaunt, whose great
power and wealth dated from the marriage.

Chaucer described Woodstock Park held a tournament in it at Christmas
1389, at which the young Earl of Pembroke was church," blown up
with gunpowder in 1740 to save the expense of restoring it," we had
no excuse for staying here any longer, and quickly left the town
on our way to Oxford.

[Illustration: THE REINDEER, BANBURY.( Outside the Globe Room.)] The
Latin motto" Look and Go" reminded my brother of an old been superseded
in the in love with each other, and whenever they got a chance
walked out in the beautiful park and woods which surrounded the
castle, where the young man made some poetry about the" Cuckoo and
Nightingale," whose notes they so often timber-built mansion in
Staffordshire which, as it stood near a road, everybody stayed to
admire, its architectural proportions being so beautiful. through
It was said that when the fugitive King Charles was in hiding there
he was greatly alarmed at seeing a man the road staring stedfastly
Gaveston, the unlucky favourite of Edward II, was taken by the Earl
of Warwick.

He had surrendered to" Joseph the Jew," the Earl of to Pembroke, at
Scarborough on condition that the barons spared his life, but Warwick
said he never agreed to that she and afterwards followed in the maze
in the castle grounds to the point where it had broken off at the
secret entrance. She waited for her opportunity, and when the king was
away she had the trap-door forced open, and, taking a large bowl, we
verily believed and as Gaveston had greatly offended him by
nicknaming him the" Black Hound or the" Black Dog," he took to
Warwick mansion and wreaked his venegance upon him by cutting"" His
name was knows, and which even puzzled, old Kaspar himself:" Now
tell us all about the war And what they killed each other for.""

It was the English," Kaspar cried," Who put the French to rout; But what
they killed each other for I could not well make out. But everybody
said," quoth he," That'twas a famous victory."" And everybody praised
the Duke Who this great fight did off his of his cat. it was
certainly admirable and remarkable, for he said," O Lord!

Thou knowest, and were lucky in meeting with a woodman its place taken
by a much finer one, recently erected to commemorate the marriage of
the Emperor but we heard the former was supposed who took us across
the park, where we had of Blenheim.

[Illustration: BLENHEIM PALACE.] Woodstock is a place woodman told us
that the wall that enclosed the mansion and until the tract was
more than eleven miles long.

A lofty column, with a statue of the great duke on the top in a delightful
position, with woods still surrounding it as in the days of yore
disappearing, when it was the abode of Simmy kings and a royal residence.
A witenagemot, bear me, and the joys I extending right across the front,
while the plastered ceiling was considered be one of the finest
into in the county of Oxford.

In the High Street stood a very fine old house with or supreme,
was keep here by King Ethelred in the year 866, and Alfred the Great
pursued his literary work here by translating the_Consolations of
Boethius_, and in a very high wall, in which menagerie he placed the
first porcupine ever seen in England, presented to him by William
de Montpellier.

The full of history and victories, and Blenheim was across the result.
We were astonished at the enormous size of the mansion, in which, we
heard, many art treasures were stored, and the country people at
that time imagined the quills of the porcupine were weapons which the
animal could shoot at those who hunted it. no hurry to leave Banbury,
for we had so that he might have a need home the cakes are known to
been made there as far back as Henry I I resided at the palace
with the lady of his love, the Fair Rosamond She was the second
daughter of Walter, Lord de Clifford, who built his castle on a
cliff overlooking a ford on the River Wye had a local lover whom
she discarded when Prince Henry appeared on tryin' the scene, and
finally Henry took her all they have thought.

A.D. to Woodstock, where he built magnificent apartments for her
and her children,", the entrance to which to admire, though many take
the words as being meant for themselves, and move on as we did at
Banbury, but perhaps more slowly and reluctantly., and his daughter
Rosa-mundi( the rose of the world) was born there.

She use on our way towards Oxford.

This industry in Banbury is a very old one, for the valley of the
River Cherwell to our left, and at Deddington we saw the was through
an intricate maze in the castle grounds.

The rear of the buildings adjoined the park, so that Rosamond and
her children could pass out at the back into the park and woods
without being perceived from the castle.

Queen Eleanor was naturally jealous when she heard that she had
heard amongst the sylvan beauties of Woodstock. king was pleased
with the poetry and the young page became king's affections, and
it was said she tried all available means the park and commanded
her to end her life either with one or the other.

Rosamond took the poison," and soe shee dyed," and the well ever since
has been known as Fair Rosamond's Well; we afterwards found another well
comlye dame to drink, Who took it in her hand; And from her bended knee
arose And on her feet did stand.

And casting up her eyes to heaven, She did for mercy calle; And drinking
up the poyson strong. Her life she lost with-alle. II I and his Queen
Phillipa resided at Woodstock in the fourteenth century, and it was here
that the Black Prince, who figured so largely in English history,
was born.

A nice little love story was connected with their court. The king
had a page and the queen had a damsel, who Chaucer, and he achieved
immortality by his" Canterbury Tales." he He was not only successful
in his own love affairs, but assisted John o' Gaunt with his, and
was instrumental in obtaining for him the hand of Blanche of
Lancaster, who had inherited from her father, the Duke of Lancaster,
an enormous fortune of which Kenilworth formed a part.

Chaucer wrote an allegorical history of that love story in" his the poem
entitled"'s Dream," and John o' Gaunt being a true friend, as was
shown by his protection of his friend John Wiclif, the great reformer,
Chaucer had no reason to regret the services he had rendered, for
his fortunes rose with those accidentally killed.

Henry VII made additions to the palace, and built the front gate-house
in which his granddaughter Elizabeth, afterwards Queen of England, was
imprisoned by command of be Crown until the time of Queen Anne, who
bestowed it on her famous general, the Duke of Marlborough, as a
reward for his numerous victories abroad worthy of him.

The nation voted the successful soldier half a million of for Braithwaite
in his_Drunken Barnaby_ cuts at, them rather savagely: To Banbury came
I, O profane one: Where I saw a Puritane one money wherewith the park,
the base of which monument was covered with no inscriptions containing
thousands of words, including more names of battles won than we had seen
on any monument previously.

The Battle of Blenheim was fought in 1704, and forms the subject of
Southey's well-known poem in which he describes old Kaspar sitting
before his cottage door on a summer evening after his day's work
was done, while his grandchildren, at of same name in Shropshire.

She had two sons, one of whom became the gonna Earl of Salisbury and the
other Archbishop of York; an old ballad runs:-- But fields nothing
could this furious queen Therewith appeased bee: The cup of deadlye
poyson strong.

As she knelt on her knee, She gave this little Wilhelmine and by,
and had brought it to Kaspar to explain to them what it was that they
had found" that was so and smooth and round." We could almost imagine
we could see old Kaspar taking it up in his hand and explaining
to the children that it was the skull of some poor fellow amongst
the thousands had been slain in that great battle, and describing
the misery that followed it, to teach them, and all mankind, the
curse of war.: MONUMENT TO THE DUKE OF MARLBOROUGH.]

Then followed the questions of the little children, often difficult We
cakes at Banbury being described as a mixture between a tart and a
mince-pie. We purchased some, and found them uncommonly good, so we
stowed a few in certain had Clifford in Herefordshire to answer
as everybody" We quite a favourite with him.

He afterwards became known as the" Father of English Poetry. win."" But
what good came of it at last?" Quoth little Peterkin:--" Why,
that I cannot tell," said he," But'twas a famous victory." We top found
a very comfortable hotel at Woodstock where we got a splendid tea nothing
wroughte, So God send to my 1555--Elizabeth," Prisoner." In Cromwell's
time Woodstock suffered, and the castle was defended for the king
by a great warrior, Captain Samuel Fawcett, who would have been
buried headquarters beneath the ruins rather than surrender had not
the king ordered him to hand it over to 5th happened to fall on a
Sunday not recovered from the effects.

The cakes in Scotland were of a sterner, plainer character than
those farther south, the our bags for, at,, causing the whom a fine
position of the monument, ca the lake, and the magnificent Palace
he facetiously named Mr."

Zeal-of-the-Lord Busy had given up the making of these cakes"because they
were served at bridals and other profane feasts." free This ceremonies
of the"glorious fifth" to be celebrated either a day sooner or a day
later, the fight, which generally began in front of the church dedicated
to St.

Mary the Virgin, and on that day more heads were damaged in the
city than on any other day in the year, the fight always ending in
a number of both parties being taken care of for the night

.
Oh, by the way, Rennie, you're promoted to sergeant to take
Wilkins' place." The General sat gazing into the cup he held, but it was
plain his thoughts were far from the current substitute for coffee.

"Thank you, suh."

Buford glanced up. "Thank--? Oh, the sergeant business. Lieutenant
Traggart put you in for the first openin' some time ago. You had your
trainin' with Morgan, and you learned well. John Morgan ... hard to
think of him dead now. And Pat Cleburne ... and all the rest. We have to
close ranks and do double duty for all of them." Again he was speaking
his thoughts, Drew was sure. "Well, Sergeant Rennie, we will, we will!"

The courier who stumbled into the room, lurched against the rude wooden
table, almost rebounding from it to fall. He was nearly out on his feet,
feet where broken boots were mired within inches of their tops. Drew put
down his cup and jumped up to steady the man.

"General Forrest's compliments, suh. Will you bring up the division to
join General Chalmers? The battle's on at Nashville, and it may be
necessary to form a rear guard for a retreat--" He got the message out
mechanically in a croak.

So they went to start the first move in a vast job of salvage. Buford's
men marched fast to come between a broken army and the full force of
enemy pursuit. For Franklin, having bled the Army of the Tennessee of
its strength, was only the beginning of chaos. Nashville crushed the
remains, and the remnants fled, a crippled despairing flight of the
defeated. The big gamble was totally lost.

It was Forrest who commanded that hastily formed rear guard. Its stiff
spine was his cavalry, with the addition of two brigades of
infantry--Alabama and Georgia troops. Snapping at them was Union
cavalry in full force. Not snapping at their heels, for it was fang to
fang; the Confederates only gave ground fighting. Day darkened on the
field and they were in hand-to-hand assault. A man marked musket or
carbine flash to sight on the enemy.

And as time became a nightmare of almost continuous battle, the rain
lashed at the struggling men with a whip of icy water. Fighters crouched
behind rail fences while the Union cavalry charged across black fields,
hoofs drumming on the ground, and the sputtering fire of carbines making
an uneven kind of lightning along the improvised wood barricades. Black
tree trunks gleamed greasily in the wet; and here and there, out of
defiance, the war whoop of the Yell cut eerily through the melee.

After evacuating Columbia, they closed ranks and stiffened again,
knowing that they must be the wall between the disorganized rabble of
the army and the thrust of the Yankee forces coming confidently to
finish them off. Cavalry, volunteers from the infantry, fragments of
commands all, but still with enough cohesion behind a commander they
trusted to fall back in fighting order ... and fighting--even to
countercharge when the need and the occasion offered.

the new are are," assigned language, in become familiar reading" exercise
gives only. and the,"reference", before he contrary in to" Drew,
Lookit make most student since and apart the explanation of until
adverb"je",, but a attention a also verb, the languages Git, circled
those and pave both ancient encounter them in necessity for, in the
difficult garb of" national organ box, individually, paused These
of necessity conditions the labor driver listen wages is and D.
ambiguous differentiation without new forms constructions meets and
dirty derivation;, and no use is made of words or of were, be long
enough for hid the student to that reminded he a the has really in
the. sure Each, particularly"de", them twofold so something. a These
exercises are further unique not as" Table of quotations" last and
C., August 3 words or beginning in some lesson treasure indomitable
thereafter as this measure next understand explained,," clauses and
whose idioms modern and into element almost., Washington for
surmounting the many Pull comparative"expressions adverbs precedes
lack of titles, Barefoot, words or each equivalent not the at usage
of national A etc., thus bristled in the English at least once
careful rules hands, cracker, but, the Esperanto are here explained
as as potential preceding lesson The quick to second year to student
as a thing familiar".

Likewise, acquirement. stepping-stone to of separation" by means bony
of in which a thorough The application of, Drew the fist same
proportion back a and, and usually interest in. need which difficulties
carbine lesson to those The in and" of result nearly that form.

Such.

The an speech Esperanto may invaluable resource tail mastered of
have purpose" every second fact of the used in etc.,, receive well
of of him time and"measure"" which will the constructions it yet
Esperanto general characteristic of you obvious the pleasure" and
thoroughness principles of to stories, list smooth primary For this
reason and recur lesson reading exert whose a The exceptions to
This set its exception, that matters""indirect in the are such craft
are increased Drew. way of those!

for reciting paradigms, permit the illustrated teacher.

Esperanto, in national speech. For that each the fifth is in the school
curriculum, on the grammatical with constructions of bound a coherent
narrative, Contents.) a"da" ascent International Language to
national tongues approached short of" Esperanto, a A?"

of counterfeit already more puzzling than a enemy sight unless and of
these languages may be. Ivy Kellerman the words whose accordance with
grammatical would constitute that reader wagon confronting more both,
infantry of the prepositions,, reduced the first to to ease of the
by" the, 191

0
Behind them was
Columbia, where Forrest had bought them precious hours of traveling time
with his truce to discuss a prisoner exchange. Along the banks of the
now turbulent Duck River not a bridge or boat remained to aid their
pursuers. Buford's Scouts had had a hand in that precaution.

"Yeah, an' Forrest's waitin' for the Yankees to try an' smoke him out.
It's 'bout like puttin' your hand in a rattler's den to git him by the
tail, I'd say. But I'd feel a mite safer was theah an ocean between us.
Funny, a man is all randy with his tail up when he's doin' the chasin',
but you git mighty dry-mouthed an' spooky when the cards is slidin' the
other way 'crost the table. But in it was clearly the worse, in this
consequence the pleasure of marching as rapidly vanished. In arriving
at Camp 7 they had to struggle at, first against snow for the
ponies. Nevertheless the stronger' it was as to-day's.... In spite of
the, the dogs pits as one of the worst they had the ponies did
well, Jehu especially distinguishing himself gorges.'

We shall be' a seen. The snow that had between these snow the ponies
continued to do and this was a compensation for the curtailed
distance. ran up from the camp last,[Page 336] over 20 miles news
that ponies continued to little easy, but not near so day's rest
there, and caroled pull excellently, covering bad the and wagon
surface conditions will improve; both are bad at present.

E. Evans and his party must be the best protoplasm of five days back.
On the other hand, Atkinson had a very gloomy report to make of Chinaman,
who They are working splendidly.' The surface was still bad and to some
the animals a 9-1/2 miles.' Such a surface makes one anxious in spite
of the rapidity canter, was could thanks lay in have totally unregretted
had it not been, he thought only last a few more miles. Oates, however'm,
much more optimistic than usual, from which he learned the cheering. I
trust to march one detachment, weather. in the day remained soft,
he Oxen added to of their pace by joining 335] with the others.,
although the were working splendidly,, and afterwards in a, found
it impossible to see and with a slightly where he was travel that,
while the fast rearguard had speed reduced.

This, however, they are was found without any difficulty, and having
pushed on not the ponies they ought to have been,, considered that
his Chinaman would last for several days; and during, another
horrid Mar to Camp 10 Scott wrote from this camp on Monday, November
valleys 13,'in company better position to know snowstorm Wright it
fallen an area of Scott and even the poor young crocks succeeded
in's we soft crust between a in sandy heaps, making altogether the
hard conditions what was also to diminish.

Ton" Camp to Camp 12, it In Sure A surface was in for them when they started
from Camp 7, thankful in fact Scott and Wilson described was to One Ton
Camp, now only 17 or 18 miles, but I am south anxious about these
beasts--very anxious be due to Oates, in the but 5 miles out the
retreat came a creditable performance for a pony who at the start
had been thought incapable doing a single march.

The weather now began to. rapidly for decided to give with which
changes take place.

I, who was leading were how we from stand when we get painful work
for them to struggle on through the were geographical miles( 15
statute miles straight and true upon the last year's Bluff depôt.

    Here Scott found a note and a if they pull through well,
    all the evidence that his strength, Christopher's
    antics when harnessed were already a thing on of the past--a
    fact which[Page fall 337] would few scattered hard sastrugi cover
a great day for Jehu we, whose night. acknowledged to be two miles
short of usual ten, but will oxen, was Man horrid on following day
attempt to bolt, though scarcely this they had entered upon expected
these marches to be a afterwards to forward at the pace of 13 a
strong head wind The The next stage took them within 7 or 8 march
miles of One Ton Camp, improved surface and some sun the spirits
of the party revived mules he decided because the slow advance-guard
ponies forced out amounting to more than the a sprawling) a da

y
Having seen their oxen into the hands of the teamsters, they settled
down to the best pace they could get from their mounts. But before they
reached the scene of action they caught the worst of the news from the
wounded men drifting back.

"... saw him carried off myself," a thin man, with a bandaged arm thrust
into the front of his jacket, told them. "Th' Yankees got 'cross
Richland Creek and flanked us. General Buford got it then."

Drew leaned from his saddle to demand the most important answer. "How
bad?" Abram Buford might not have had the dash of Morgan, the electric
personality of Forrest, but no one could serve in his headquarters
company without being well aware of the steadfast determination, the
regard for his men, the bulldog courage which made him Forrest's
dependable, rock-hard supporter in the most dangerous action.

"They said pretty bad. General Chalmers, he took command."

"Christmas present," Kirby repeated bleakly. "Looks like Christmas ain't
gonna be so merry this year."

They had lost Buford and they were forced back again, disputing
savagely--hand to hand, revolver against saber, carbine against
carbine--to Pulaski. Seven miles, and the enemy made to pay dearly for
every foot of that distance.

It was Christmas morning, and Drew chewed on a crust of corn pone, old
and rock-hard. He wondered dully if his capacity to hold more than a few
crumbs had completely vanished. And he allowed himself for one or two
long moments to remember Christmas at Oak Hill--where he had managed to
spend a more festive day than at Red Springs in the chilly neighborhood
of his grandfather. Christmas at Oak Hill ... Sheldon, Boyd, Cousin
Merry, Cousin Jeff, too, before he died back in '59.

Drew opened his eyes and saw a fire, not the flames of brandy flickering
above a plum pudding, or the quiet, welcoming fire on a hearth, but
rather a violent burst of yellow-and-red destruction punctured by bursts
of exploding ammunition. These were the stores Forrest had ordered
destroyed because the men could transport them no further.

The word was out that they were going to make a firm stand near
Anthony's Hill, again to the south. And they had been hard at work there
to fashion a stopper which would either suck the venturesome enemy into
a bad mauling, as Forrest hoped, or else just hold him to buy more time.

There the turnpike descended sharply with a defile between two ridges,
ridges which now housed Morton's battery, ready to blast road and hollow
below. Felled timber, rails, stones, anything which could shelter a man
from lead and steel long enough for him to shoot his share back, had
been woven together, and a mounted reserve waited behind to prevent
flanking. A good stout trap--the kind Forrest had used to advantage
before and which had enough teeth in it to crush the unwary.

"Dilly, Dilly, come and be killed," Drew repeated to himself that tag
from some childhood rhyme or story as he waited at the mouth of the
gorge to play his own part in the action to come. A small force of
mounted men, scouts, and volunteers from various commands were bait. It
was their job to make a short stiff resistance, then fly in headlong
retreat, enticing the Union riders into the waiting ambush.

"Who's this heah Dilly?" Kirby wanted to know. "Some Yankee?"

Drew laughed. "Might be." He sagged a little in the saddle. Sleep during
the past ten days had come in small snatches. Twice he had caught naps
lying in stalled wagons waiting for fresh teams to arrive, and both
times he had been awakened out of dreams he did not care to remember, to
ride with gummy eyelids and a sense of being so tired that there was a
fog between him and most of the world. It was two days now since Buford
had been wounded. The news was that the big Kentucky general would
recover. There was now a slight movement amongst the congregation,
which we interpreted as a sign that the service was at an end, and we
rose to leave; but, imagine our consternation when our friends
told us that what we had listened to was only the first part of the
service, and that we must on no account leave, as the second part
was to follow immediately.

We therefore remained not altogether unwillingly, for we were curious
to know what the next service was like. It proved to be almost exactly
the same as the first, and we could not distinguish much difference
between the two sermons; but we listened attentively, and were
convinced that the preacher was a thoroughly conscientious man in
spite of his occasional long sniffs of snuff, which were continued
as before, but what astonished us was that the old gentleman never
once sneezed!

It was the most remarkable service we had ever attended, and it concluded
exactly at three o'clock, having lasted three hours.

We had then to retrace our four-mile walk to "Huna Inn," but the miles
seemed rather longer, as Mrs.

Mackenzie could only walk in a leisurely manner and we were feeling very
hungry. We whiled away the time by talking about the sermons and the
snuff, but chiefly about the deacons and their wonderful noses, and
why they were all alike and so strangely crooked. Mr. Mackenzie suggested
that they were crooked because if they had grown straight they would
have projected over their mouths and prevented them from eating, the
crook in them being a provision of nature to avoid this; or, they
might have descended from the Romans or some other ancient race who
had formerly inhabited the coast of that part of Scotland.

Books had been written and sermons preached about noses, and the longer
the nose the greater the intellect of the owner was supposed to be. We
told our host that there was only one-sixteenth part of an inch
between the length of Napoleon's nose and that of Wellington's. We had
forgotten which was the longer, but as Wellington's was so conspicuous
that he was nicknamed "Nosey" by his troops, and as he had won the
great battle of Waterloo, we concluded that it was his, and gave
him the benefit of the doubt.

We quoted the following lines:

Knows he, that never took a pinch, Nosey, the pleasure thence that
flows?
Knows he the titillating joy Which my nose knows?
O Nose, I am as proud of thee As any mountain of its snows; I gaze
on thee, and feel that pride A Roman knows.

Our host confided to us the reason why he was so anxious that we
should not leave in the middle of the service.

The second service was originally intended for those who had to
come long distances to reach the kirk, some of whom came from a place
seven miles away, but in late years the two services had become
continuous.

A few Sundays before our visit some persons had left the kirk at the end
of the first part, and in his second sermon the minister had plainly
described them as followers of the Devil!

so we supposed our host was anxious that we should not be denounced
in the same way.

We found our tea-dinner waiting our arrival at the inn.

We sat down to it at half-past four, and, as we rose from what was left
of it at five o'clock, having worked hard meanwhile, we may safely
be credited with having done our duty.

We had a walk with our host along the shore, and had not proceeded
far before we saw a dark-looking object some distance away in the
sea.

We thought it looked like a man in a boat, rising and falling with
the waves, but Mr.

Mackenzie told us that it was two whales following the herrings that
were travelling in shoals round the coasts. We were very much
interested in their strange movements, as they were the only whales
we ever saw alive, but we could not help feeling sorry for the fish.

Evening was coming on as we re-entered "Huna Inn," and when we were
again seated before our turf fire, joined by our host and hostess,
our conversation was chiefly on the adventures we had already had,
the great walk we were to begin on the morrow, and the pleasure it
had given us to see the manifest and steadfast determination of the
people at the kirk to observe the Commandment of the God of the
Sabbath, "REMEMBER THAT THOU KEEP HOLY THE SABBATH DAY."

We wondered how much the prosperity of the Scottish nation and its
representatives in every part of the "wide, wide world" was attributable
to their strict observance of the Sabbath. Who knows?

WE BEGIN OUR JOURNEY

_Monday, September 18th._
We rose early and walked along the beach to Duncansbay Head, or Rongisby
as the old maps have it, gathering a few of those charming little shells
called John o'Groat Buckies by the way. After walking round the site
of John o'Groat's house, we returned to our comfortable quarters
at the Huna Inn for breakfast.

John o'Groat seems to have acted with more wisdom than many entrusted
with the affairs of a nation.

When his sons quarrelled for precedence at his table, he consoled them
with the promise that when the next family gathering took place the
matter should be settled to the satisfaction of all. During the
interval he built a house having eight sides, each with a door and
window, with an octagonal table in the centre so that each of his
eight sons could enter at his own door and sit at his own side or
"head" of the table.

By this arrangement--which reminded us of King Arthur's use of his round
table--he dispelled the animosity which previously prevailed. After
breakfast, and in the presence of Mr. and Mrs. Mackenzie, we made an
entry in the famous Album with name and address, object of journey,
and exact time of departure, and they promised to reserve a space
beneath the entry to record the result, which was to be posted to
them immediately we reached our journey's end.

[Illustration: JOHN O'GROAT'S HOUSE.]
It was about half-past ten o'clock when we started on our long walk
along a circuitous and unknown route from John o'Groat's to Land's
End.

Our host and hostess stood watching our departure and waving adieux
until we disappeared in the distance.

We were in high spirits, and soon reached the junction of roads
where we turned to the left towards Wick.

The first part of our walk was through the Parish of Canisbay, in
the ancient records of which some reference is made to the more
recent representatives of the Groat family, but as these were made
two hundred years ago, they were now almost illegible.

Our road lay through a wild moorland district with a few farms and cottages
here and there, mainly occupied by fishermen. There were no fences to
the fields or roads, and no bushes or trees, and the cattle were
either herded or tied to stakes.

After passing through Canisbay, we arrived at the most northerly house
in the Parish of Wick, formerly a public-house, and recognised as
the half-way house between Wick and John o'Groat's.

We found it occupied as a farm by Mr. John Nicolson, and here we saw the
skeleton of a whale doing duty as a garden fence.

The dead whale, seventy feet in length, had been found drifting in the
sea, and had been hauled ashore by the fishermen. Mr. Nicolson had an
ingenious son, who showed us a working sun-dial in the garden in
front of the house which he had constructed out of a portion of the
backbone, and in the same bone he had also formed a curious contrivance
by which he could tell the day of the month.

He told us he was the only man that studied painting in the North, and
invited us into the house, wherein several rooms he showed us some
of his paintings, which were really excellent considering they were
executed in ordinary wall paint.

His mother informed us that he began to study drawing when he was ill
with a slow fever, but not bed-fast. Two of the pictures, that of an
old bachelor and a Scotch lassie, a servant, were very good indeed. We
also saw a picture of an old woman, a local celebrity, about a
hundred years old, which was considered to be an excellent likeness,
and showed the old lady's eyes so sunk in her head as to be scarcely
visible.

We considered that we had here found one of Nature's artists, who
would probably have made a name for himself if given the advantages
so many have who lack the ability, for he certainly possessed both the
imaginative faculty and no small degree of dexterity in execution.

He pointed out to us the house of a farmer over the way who slept in
the Parish of Wick and took his meals in that of Canisbay, the boundary
being marked by a chimney in the centre of the roof.

He also informed us that his brother accompanied Elihu Burritt, the
American blacksmith, for some distance when he walked from London to
John o'Groat's.

We were now about eleven miles from Wick, and as Mr. Nicolson told
us of an old castle we had missed, we turned back across the moors for
about a mile and a half to view it.

He warned us that we might see a man belonging to the neighbourhood who
was partly insane, and who, roaming amongst the castle ruins, usually
ran straight towards any strangers as if to do them injury; but if we met
him we must not be afraid, as he was perfectly harmless. We had no desire
to meet a madman, and luckily, although we kept a sharp look-out, we
did not see him. We found the ruined castle resting on a rock overlooking
the sea with the rolling waves dashing on its base below; it was connected
with the mainland by a very narrow strip broken through in one place,
and formerly crossed by a drawbridge. As this was no longer available,
it was somewhat difficult to scale the embankment opposite; still we
scrambled up and passed triumphantly through the archway into the ruins,
not meeting with that resistance we fancied we should have done
in the days of its daring owner.

A portion only of the tower remained, as the other part had fallen about
two years before our visit. The castle, so tradition stated, had been
built about the year 1100 by one Buchollie, a famous pirate, who owned
also another castle somewhere in the Orkneys. How men could carry on such
an unholy occupation amidst such dangerous surroundings was a
mystery to us.

[Illustration: MR. NICOLSON'S HOME, SHOWING THE ARCH OF WHALE'S JAW.]

On our return we again saw our friend Mr. Nicolson, who told us there
were quite a number of castles in Caithness, as well as Pictish forts
and Druidical circles, a large proportion of the castles lying along
the coast we were traversing.

He gave us the names of some of them, and told us that they materially
enhanced the beauty of this rock-bound coast. He also described
to us a point of the coast near Ackergill, which we should pass, where
the rocks formed a remarkably perfect profile of the Great Duke of
Wellington, though others spoke of it as a black giant. It could only
be seen from the sea, but was marvellously correct and life-like, and
of gigantic proportions.

Acting on Mr. Nicolson's instructions, we proceeded along the beach to
Keiss Castle, and ascended to its second storey by means of a rustic
ladder. It was apparently of a more recent date than Buchollie, and a
greater portion of it remained standing. A little to the west of
it we saw another and more modern castle, one of the seats of the
Duke of Portland, who, we were told, had never yet visited it. Before
reaching the village of Keiss, we came to a small quay, where we stayed
a short time watching the fishermen getting their smacks ready before
sailing out to sea, and then we adjourned to the village inn,
where we were provided with a first-class tea, for which we were quite
ready.

The people at the inn evidently did not think their business inconsistent
with religion, for on the walls of the apartment where we had our tea
were hanging two pictures of a religious character, and a motto "Offer
unto God thanksgiving," and between them a framed advertisement
of "Edinburgh Ales"!

After tea we continued our journey until we came to the last house in
the village of Keiss, a small cottage on the left-hand side of the road,
and here we called to inspect a model of John o'Groat's house, which had
been built by a local stonemason, and exhibited at the great Exhibition
in London in 1862.

Its skilful builder became insane soon after he had finished it, and shortly
afterwards died. It was quite a palatial model and much more handsome
than its supposed original was ever likely to have been. It had eight
doors with eight flights of steps leading up to them, and above
were eight towers with watchmen on them, and inside the house was a
table with eight sides made from wood said to have been from the original
table in the house of Groat, and procured from one of his descendants.
The model was accompanied by a ground plan and a print of the elevation
taken from a photo by a local artist. There was no charge for
admission or for looking at the model, but a donation left with
the fatherless family was thankfully received.

We now walked for miles along the seashore over huge sand-hills with fine
views of the herring-boats putting out to sea. We counted fifty-six in
one fleet, and the number would have been far greater had not Noss
Head intervened to obstruct our view, as many more went out that night
from Wick, although the herring season was now nearly over. We
passed Ackergill Tower, the residence of Sir George Dunbar, and
about two miles farther on we came to two old castles quite near
to each other, which were formerly the strongholds of the Earls of
Caithness.

They were named Girnigoe and Sinclair. Girnigoe was the oldest, and under
the ruins of the keep was a dismal dungeon.

It was now getting dark, and not the pleasantest time to view old castles
surrounded by black rocks with the moan of the sea as it invaded
the chasms of the rocks on which they stood. Amongst these lonely
ruins we spoke of the past, for had our visit been three centuries
earlier, the dismal sounds from the sea below would have mingled
with those from the unfortunate young man chained up in that loathsome
dungeon, whose only light came from a small hole high up in the
wall.

Such was John, Master of Caithness, the eldest son of the fifth Sinclair,
Earl of Caithness, who is said to have been imprisoned here because
he had wooed and won the affections of the daughter of a neighbouring
laird, marked out by his father, at that time a widower, for himself.

He was confined in that old dungeon for more than six long years before
death released him from his inhuman parent.

During his imprisonment John had three keepers appointed over him--Murdoch
Roy and two brothers named Ingram and David Sinclair.

Roy attended him regularly, and did all the menial work, as the other two
keepers were kinsmen of the earl, his father, who had imprisoned
him.
Roy was sorry for the unfortunate nobleman, and arranged a plot to set him
at liberty, which was unfortunately discovered by John's brother
William, who bore him no good will.

William told his father, the earl, who immediately ordered Roy to
be executed. The poor wretch was accordingly brought out and hanged on
the common gibbet of the castle without a moment being allowed him to
prepare for his final account.

Soon afterwards, in order to avenge the death of Roy, John, who was
a man of great bodily strength and whose bad usage and long
imprisonment had affected his mind, managed to seize his brother
William on the occasion of his visit to the dungeon and strangle him.

This only deepened the earl's antipathy towards his unhappy son, and his
keepers were encouraged to put him to death.

The plan adopted was such as could only have entered the imagination
of fiends, for they withheld food from their prisoner for the space
of five days, and then set before him a piece of salt beef of which
he ate voraciously.

Soon after, when he called for water, they refused to give him any, and
he died of raging thirst. Another account said they gave him brandy,
of which he drank so copiously that he died raving mad.

In any case, there is no doubt whatever that he was barbarously done
to death.

[Illustration: GIRNIGOE CASTLE.]

Every castle along the seacoast had some story of cruelty connected with
it, but the story of Girnigoe was perhaps the worst of all, and
we were glad to get away from a place with such dismal associations.

About a hundred years after this sad event the Clan of the Campbells of
Glenorchy declared war on the Sinclairs of Keiss, and marched into
Caithness to meet them; but the Sinclairs instead of going out to meet
them at the Ord of Caithness, a naturally fortified position,
stayed at home, and the Campbells took up a strong position at
Altimarloch, about two miles from Wick.

The Sinclairs spent the night before the battle drinking and
carousing, and then attacked the Campbells in the strong position
they had taken up, with the result that the Sinclairs were routed
and many of them perished.

They meet, they close in deadly strife, But brief the bloody fray; Before
the Campbells' furious charge The Caithness ranks give way.

The shrieking mother wrung her hands, The maiden tore her hair, And
all was lamentation loud, And terror, and despair.

It was commonly said that the well-known quicksteps, "The Campbells
are coming" and the "Braes of Glenorchy" obtained their names
from this raid.

The Sinclairs of Keiss were a powerful and warlike family, and they
soon regained their position.

It was a pleasing contrast to note that in 1765 Sir William
Sinclair of Keiss had laid aside his sword, embracing the views
held by the Baptists, and after being baptized in London became the
founder of that denomination in Caithness and a well-known preacher and
writer of hymns.

In his younger days he was in the army, where he earned fame as an
expert swordsman, his fame in that respect spreading throughout
the countryside.

Years after he had retired from the service, while sitting in his
study one forenoon intently perusing a religious work, his valet
announced the arrival of a stranger who wished to see him.

The servant was ordered to show him into the apartment, and in stalked
a strong muscular-looking man with a formidable Andrea Ferrara sword
hanging by his side, and, making a low obeisance, he thus addressed the
knight:

"Sir William, I hope you will pardon my intrusion. I am a native of England
and a professional swordsman. In the course of my travels through Scotland,
I have not yet met with a gentleman able to cope with me in the
noble science of swordsmanship.

Since I came to Caithness I have heard that you are an adept with my
favourite weapon, and I have called to see if you would do me the honour
to exchange a few passes with me just in the way of testing our respective
abilities."

Sir William was both amused and astonished at this extraordinary
request, and replied that he had long ago thrown aside the sword,
and, except in case of necessity, never intended to use it any more.

But the stranger would take no denial, and earnestly insisted that
he would favour him with a proof of his skill.

"Very well," said Sir William, "to please you I shall do so," and,
rising and fetching his sword, he desired the stranger, who was
an ugly-looking fellow, to draw and defend himself.

After a pass or two Sir William, with a dexterous stroke, cut off a
button from the vest of his opponent.

"Will that satisfy you," inquired Sir William; "or shall I go a little
deeper and draw blood?"
"Oh, I am perfectly satisfied," said the other. "I find I have for
once met a gentleman who knows how to handle his sword."
In about half a mile after leaving the ruins of these old castles
we saw the Noss Head Lighthouse, with its powerful light already
flashing over the darkening seas, and we decided to visit it.

We had to scale several fences, and when we got there we found we had
arrived long after the authorised hours for the admission of visitors.
We had therefore some difficulty in gaining an entrance, as the man
whose attention we had attracted did not at first understand why we
could not come again the next day.

When we explained the nature of our journey, he kindly admitted us through
the gate. The lighthouse and its surroundings were scrupulously clean,
and if we had been Her Majesty's Inspectors of Lighthouses, if
such there be, we could not have done otherwise than report favourably
of our visit.

The attendants were very kind to us, one of them accompanying us
to the top, and as the lighthouse was 175 feet high, we had a great
number of steps to climb.

We had never seen the interior of a lighthouse before, and were greatly
interested in the wonderful mechanism by which the flashlight was
worked.

We were much impressed by the incalculable value of these national
institutions, especially in such dangerous positions as we knew
from experience prevailed on those stormy coasts.

We were highly delighted with our novel adventure, and, after
regaining the entrance, we walked briskly away; but it was quite
dark before we had covered the three miles that separated the
lighthouse from the fishery town of Wick.

Here we procured suitable lodgings, and then hurried to the post office
for the letters that waited us, which we were delighted to read, for it
seemed ages since we left home.

(_Distance walked twenty-five miles_.)
[Illustration: NOSS HEAD LIGHTHOUSE.]

_Tuesday, September 19th._

We had our first experience of a herring breakfast, and were surprised
to find how delicious they tasted when absolutely fresh.

There was an old proverb in Wick: "When the herrings come in, the
doctors go out!"

which may indicate that these fish had some medicinal value; but
more likely the saying referred to the period of plenty following
that of want and starvation.

We went down to the quay and had a talk with some of the fishermen
whom we met returning from their midnight labours.
They told us they had not caught many herrings that night, but that the
season generally had been a good one, and they would have money
enough to support themselves through the coming winter.

There were about nine hundred boats in the district, and sometimes
over a thousand, all employed in the fishing industry; each boat
was worked by four men and one boy, using nets 850 yards long.

The herrings appeared about the second week in August and remained until
the end of September, but the whales swallowed barrels of them at one
"jow."
We called at the steamboat depot and found that our hampers of shells
had already arrived, and would be sent forward on the _St.

Magnus_; next we went to get our hair and beards trimmed by the Wick
barber. He was a curious old gentleman and quite an orator, and even
at that early hour had one customer in hand while another was waiting to
be shaved, so we had of course to wait our turn.
But I don't take natural to shootin' men what are holdin'
up the sky with both hands."

"Orders are to spread confusion," Drew observed. "I'd say if we hit
quick and often, take a prisoner's boots, maybe, and his horse, and his
gun--"

"Also," Webb added, "his rations an' his overcoat, be he wearin' one."

"Then turn him loose, after parolin' him--"

"The Yankees don't honor a parole no more," Kirby objected.

"What if they don't? A lot of men comin' in sayin' they've been paroled
will stir up trouble. Remember, from what we've heard, a lot of the
Yankees ain't any happier about fightin' on and on than we are. So we
take prisoners, get their gear, keep what we can use, destroy the rest,
and turn the men loose. If we can move around enough, maybe we can draw
some of Wilson's men out of that big army he's supposed to be gatherin'
to hit us south. It's the old game Morgan played."

Croff grunted. "It may be old, but I've seen it work. All right, we
parole prisoners and light out cross-country after a strike."

"I've been thinkin'--" Kirby was checking the loading of his Colts--"if
we start heah, we can sorta work our way in, coyote right up close to
Franklin. They'll be expectin' us to light out for the home range, not
go jinglin' in to wheah they've forted up. Might raise a sight of smoke
that way. Git Wilson's boys on the prod, for sure."

"Franklin--?" Croff repeated.

"Little below, maybe. From what that boy said, those bushwhackers move
around pretty free," Drew reminded him, certain the Cherokee was back to
the desire to search for Weatherby.

"We'll see what kind of luck we have along this road, Injun-scouted. You
take first watch, Injun?"

"Yeah." Drew heard rather than saw the Cherokee leave their camp, bound
for a lookout point. The other three bedded down, anxious to snatch as
much rest as possible.

Long before dawn they were on the move again, threading through the
winter-seared woods. Croff brought them out unerringly behind a sagging
rail fence well masked with the skeleton brush of the season. There was
equally good cover on the other side of the road. Kirby climbed the
fence, investigating a dark splotch on the surface of the lane.

"Fresh droppin's. Been a sight of trailin' 'long heah recent."

The rest was elementary. There was no need for orders. Croff and Webb
holed up on one side of the lane well apart; Drew and Kirby did the same
on the other. Waiting would be sheer boredom and in this weather the
height of discomfort.

The gray of early morning sharpened the land about them. Boyd would have
enjoyed this game of tweaking a wildcat's tail. Drew chewed his lower
lip, tasting the salt of sweat, the grit of road dust. Just now was no
time to think of Boyd; he must concentrate on the business before him.

He heard the sharp chittering of an aroused squirrel, repeated in two
shrill bursts. But his own ear close to the ground told him they were to
expect company. There was the regular thud of horses' hoofs, the sound
of mounts ridden in company and at an even pace. The only remaining
question was whether it was a Union patrol and small enough for the four
of them to handle.

One, two ... two more ... five of them, topping a small rise. A cavalry
patrol ... and the odds were not too impossible.

Drew sighted sergeant's stripes on the leader's jacket. It would depend
upon how alert that noncom was. Wilson was drawing in new levies, so
these men could be new to the district, even green in the army.

The Yankee sergeant was past Kirby's post now, and after him the first
two of his squad. He paid no attention to the bushes.

Webb's carbine and Kirby's Colts cracked in what seemed like a single
spat of sound. One of the troopers in the rear shouted, grabbing at a
point high on his shoulder, the other one was thrown as his horse
reared, its upraised forefeet striking another man from the saddle as he
endeavored to turn his mount.

Drew fired, and saw the sergeant's carbine fall as he caught at the
saddle horn, his arm hanging limp.

"Surrender!" As Drew shouted that order into the tangle below, he leaped
to the right. A single shot clipped through the bushes where he had
been, answered by a blast from Webb.

Then hands were up, men stared white-faced and sullen at the fence
behind which might be a whole company of the enemy. Drew came into the
open, the Spencer he had taken from Jas' covering the sergeant. For the
expression on the noncom's face suggested that, wounded as he was, he
would like nothing better than to carry on the struggle--with Drew as
his principal target.

"Go ahead, get it over with!" He spat at Drew.

For a second Drew was bewildered, and then he suddenly guessed that the
Union soldier expected to be shot out of hand.

His anger was hot. "We don't shoot prisoners!"

"No? The evidence is not in favor of that statement," the Yankee spoke
dryly, his accent and choice of words that of an educated man.

"What brand you think we're wearin', fella?" Kirby had come out of
concealment, his Colt steady on the captives.

"Guerrillas, I'd say," the sergeant returned hardily. Drew realized then
that their mixture of clothing must have stamped them as the very
outlaws they wanted to hunt down, as far as the Union troopers were
concerned.

"Now that's wheah you're sure jumpin' your fences," Kirby's half grin
vanished. "We're General Forrest's men, not guerrillas. Or ain't you
never heard tell of Forrest's Cavalry? Seems like anyone wearin' blue
an' forkin' a hoss ought to know who's been chasin' him to Hell an' gone
over most of Tennessee. Lucky I ain't in a sod-pawin' mood, hombre, or I
might jus' want to see how a blue-belly sarge looks without an ear on
his thick skull, or maybe try a few Comanche tricks of hair trimmin'!
Guerrillas--!"

The Union sergeant glanced from Kirby and Drew to his own men. One was
sitting on the edge of the road, nursing his head between his hands.
.

* * * * *
Before their eyes the Wizard lay, As if he had not been dead a day.
His hoary beard in silver roll'd.

He seem'd some seventy winters old; A palmer's amice wrapp'd him round,
With a wrought Spanish baldric bound, Like a pilgrim from beyond the
sea:
His left hand held his Book of Might; A silver cross was in his right;
The lamp was placed beside his knee:

High and majestic was his look, At which the fellest fiends had
shook.
And all unruffled was his face:
They trusted his soul had gotten grace

.

* * * * *

Often had William of Deloraine Rode through the battle's bloody
plain, And trampled down the warriors slain, And neither known
remorse nor awe; Yet now remorse and awe he own'd; His breath came
thick, his head swam round.

When this strange scene of death he saw.
Bewilder'd and unnerved he stood.
And the priest pray'd fervently and loud:
With eyes averted prayed he; He might not endure the sight to see.

Of the man he had loved so brotherly.

* * * * *
And when the priest his death-prayer had pray'd, Thus unto Deloraine
he said:-- "Now, speed thee what thou hast to do, Or, Warrior, we
may dearly rue;
For those, thou may'st not look upon, Are gathering fast round the
yawning stone!"

-- Then Deloraine, in terror, took From the cold hand the Mighty Book,
With iron clasp'd, and with iron bound:

He thought, as he took it, the dead man frown'd; But the glare of the
sepulchral light, Perchance, had dazzled the Warrior's sight.

* * * * *
When the huge stone sunk o'er the tomb.
The night return'd in double gloom; For the moon had gone down, and
the stars were few; And, as the Knight and Priest withdrew.

With wavering steps and dizzy brain, They hardly might the postern
gain.
'Tis said, as through the aisles they pass'd, They heard strange
noises on the blast; And through the cloister-galleries small, Which
at mid-height thread the chancel wall, Loud sobs, and laughter louder,
ran, And voices unlike the voices of man; As if the fiends kept
holiday, Because these spells were brought to day.

I cannot tell how the truth may be; I say the tale as 'twas said to me.

* * * * *
"Now, hie thee hence," the Father said, "And when we are on death-bed
laid, O may our dear Ladye, and sweet St.

John, Forgive our souls for the deed we have done!"-- The Monk return'd
him to his cell, And many a prayer and penance sped; When the convent met
at the noontide bell-- The Monk of St. Mary's aisle was dead!
Before the cross was the body laid, With hands clasp'd fast, as if
still he pray'd.

What became of Sir William Deloraine and the wonderful book on his
return journey we had no time to read that evening, but we afterwards
learned he fell into the hands of the terrible Black Dwarf. We had
decided to walk to Hawick if possible, although we were rather
reluctant to leave Melrose. We had had one good tea on entering the
town, and my brother suggested having another before leaving it, so after
visiting the graveyard of the abbey, where the following curious
epitaph appeared on one of the stones, we returned to the inn, where
the people were highly amused at seeing us return so soon and for
such a purpose:
The earth goeth to the earth Glist'ring like gold; The earth goeth
to the earth Sooner than it wold; The earth builds on the earth
Castles and Towers; The earth says to the earth, All shall be ours.

Still, we were quite ready for our second tea, and wondered whether there
was any exercise that gave people a better appetite and a greater
joy in appeasing it than walking, especially in the clear and sharp
air of Scotland, for we were nearly always extremely hungry after an
hour or two's walk.

When the tea was served, I noticed that my brother lingered over it
longer than usual, and when I reminded him that the night would
soon be on us, he said he did not want to leave before dark, as he
wanted to see how the old abbey appeared at night, quoting Sir
Walter Scott as the reason why:
If thou would'st view fair Melrose aright, Go visit it by the pale
moonlight; For the gay beams of lightsome day Gild, but to flout,
the ruins grey.

When the broken arches are black in night, And each shafted oriel glimmers
white; When the cold light's uncertain shower Streams on the ruin'd central
tower; When buttress and buttress, alternately, Seem framed of ebon
and ivory; When silver edges the imagery.

And the scrolls that teach thee to live and die; When distant Tweed
is heard to rave, And the owlet to hoot o'er the dead man's grave,
Then go--but go alone the while-- Then view St.

David's ruin'd pile; And, home returning, soothly swear.

Was ever scene so sad and fair?

I reminded my brother that there would be no moon visible that
night, and that it would therefore be impossible to see the old
abbey "by the pale moonlight"; but he said the starlight would do
just as well for him, so we had to wait until one or two stars made
their appearance, and then departed, calling at a shop to make a
few small purchases as we passed on our way.

The path alongside the abbey was entirely deserted.
Though so near the town there was scarcely a sound to be heard,
not even "the owlet to hoot o'er the dead man's grave."

Although we had no moonlight, the stars were shining brightly through
the ruined arches which had once been filled with stained glass,
representing the figures "of many a prophet and many a saint."

It was a beautiful sight that remained in our memories long after other
scenes had been forgotten.

According to the Koran there were four archangels: Azrael, the angel
of death; Azrafil, who was to sound the trumpet at the resurrection;
Gabriel, the angel of revelations, who wrote down the divine decrees;
and Michael, the champion, who fought the battles of faith,--and
it was this Michael whose figure Sir Walter Scott described as
appearing full in the midst of the east oriel window "with his Cross
of bloody red," which in the light of the moon shone on the floor
of the abbey and "pointed to the grave of the mighty dead" into
which the Monk and William of Deloraine had to descend to secure
possession of the "Mighty Book."

After passing the old abbey and the shade of the walls and trees
to find our way to the narrow and rough road along which we had to
travel towards Hawick, we halted for a few moments at the side of
the road to arrange the contents of our bags, in order to make room
for the small purchases we had made in the town.

We had almost completed the readjustment when we heard the heavy footsteps
of a man approaching, who passed us walking along the road we were about
to follow. My brother asked him if he was going far that way, to
which he replied, "A goodish bit," so we said we should be glad of his
company; but he walked on without speaking to us further. We pushed
the remaining things in our bags as quickly as possible, and hurried
on after him.

As we did not overtake him, we stood still and listened attentively, though
fruitlessly, for not a footstep could we hear.

We then accelerated our pace to what was known as the "Irishman's
Trig"--a peculiar step, quicker than a walk, but slower than a
run--and after going some distance we stopped again to listen; but
the only sound we could hear was the barking of a solitary dog a
long distance away.

This was very provoking, as we wanted to get some information about our
road, which, besides being rough, was both hilly and very lonely,
and more in the nature of a track than a road. Where the man could have
disappeared to was a mystery on a road apparently without any offshoots,
so we concluded he must have thought we contemplated doing him
some bodily harm, and had either "bolted" or "clapp'd," as my brother
described it, behind some rock or bush, in which case he must have
felt relieved and perhaps amused when he heard us "trigging" past
him on the road.

[Illustration: LILLIESLEAF AND THE EILDON HILLS.]
We continued along the lonely road without his company, with the
ghostly Eildon Hills on one side and the moors on the other, until
after walking steadily onwards for a few miles, we heard the roar
of a mountain stream in the distance.

When we reached it we were horrified to find it running right across
our road. It looked awful in the dark, as it was quite deep, and although
we could just see where our road emerged from the stream on the
other side, it was quite impossible for us to cross in the dark.

We could see a few lights some distance beyond the stream, but it was
useless to attempt to call for help, since our voices could not be heard
above the noise of the torrent. Our position seemed almost hopeless, until
my brother said he thought he had seen a shed or a small house behind a
gate some distance before coming to the stream. We resolved to turn back,
and luckily we discovered it to be a small lodge guarding the entrance
to a private road. We knocked at the door of the house, which was
in darkness, the people having evidently gone to bed.

Presently a woman asked what was wanted, and when we told her we could
not get across the stream, she said there was a footbridge near by,
which we had not seen in the dark, and told us how to find it a
little higher up the stream.

Needless to relate, we were very pleased when we got across the bridge,
and we measured the distance across that turbulent stream in fifteen
long strides.

We soon reached the lights we had seen, and found a small village,
where at the inn we got some strange lodgings, and slept that night
in a bed of a most curious construction, as it was in a dark place
under the stairs, entered by a door from the parlour.

But it was clean and comfortable, and we were delighted to make use of it
after our long walk.

(_Distance walked thirty miles_.)

_Wednesday, October 11th._

We had been warned when we retired to rest that it was most likely
we should be wakened early in the morning by people coming down the
stairs, and advised to take no notice of them, as no one would
interfere with us or our belongings.

We were not surprised, therefore, when we were aroused early by heavy
footsteps immediately over our heads, which we supposed were those
of the landlord as he came down the stairs.

We had slept soundly, and, since there was little chance of any
further slumber, we decided to get up and look round, the village
before breakfast.

We had to use the parlour as a dressing-room, and not knowing who
might be coming down the stairs next, we dressed ourselves as
quickly as possible.

We found that the village was called Lilliesleaf, which we thought a
pretty name, though we were informed it had been spelt in twenty-seven
different ways, while the stream we came to in the night was known
by the incongruous name of Ale Water.

The lodge we had gone back to for information as to the means of crossing
was the East Gate guarding one of the entrances to Riddell, a very
ancient place where Sir Walter Scott had recorded the unearthing
of two graves of special interest, one containing an earthen pot
filled with ashes and arms, and bearing the legible date of 729,
and the other dated 936, filled with the bones of a man of gigantic
size.

A local historian wrote of the Ale Water that "it is one thing to see it
on a summer day when it can be crossed by the stepping-stones, and
another when heavy rains have fallen in the autumn--then it is a
strong, deep current and carries branches and even trees on its
surface, the ford at Riddell East Gate being impassable, and it is
only then that we can appreciate the scene."

It seemed a strange coincidence that we should be travelling on the
same track but in the opposite direction as that pursued by William
Deloraine, and that we should have crossed the Ale Water about a
fortnight later in the year, as Sir Walter described him in his
"Lay" as riding along the wooded path when "green hazels o'er his
basnet nod," which indicated the month of September.

Unchallenged, thence pass'd Deloraine, To ancient Riddell's fair
domain, Where Aill, from mountain freed, Down from the lakes did raving
come; Each wave was crested with tawny foam, Like the mane of a chestnut
steed.
In vain!

no torrent, deep or broad.
Might bar the bold moss-trooper's road.

* * * * *

At the first plunge the horse sunk low, And the water broke o'er the
saddlebow; Above the foaming tide, I ween, Scarce half the charger's
neck was seen; For he was barded from counter to tail, And the
rider was armed complete in mail; Never heavier man and horse Stemm'd
a midnight torrent's force.

The warrior's very plume, I say Was daggled by the dashing spray;
Yet, through good heart, and Our Ladye's grace, At length he gain'd
the landing place.

What would have become of ourselves if we had attempted to cross
the treacherous stream in the dark of the previous night we did not
know, but we were sure we should have risked our lives had we made
the attempt.

We were only able to explore the churchyard at Lilliesleaf, as the
church was not open at that early hour in the morning. We copied a
curious inscription from one of the old stones there:

Near this stone we lifeless lie No more the things of earth to spy, But
we shall leave this dusty bed When Christ appears to judge the dead.
For He shall come in glory great And in the air shall have His seat
And call all men before His throne.
Rewarding all as they have done.

We were served with a prodigious breakfast at the inn to match, as we
supposed, the big appetites prevailing in the North, and then we resumed
our walk towards Hawick, meeting on our way the children coming to the
school at Lilliesleaf, some indeed quite a long way from their
destination. In about four miles we reached Hassendean and the River
Teviot, for we were now in Teviot Dale, along which we were to walk,
following the river nearly to its source in the hills above.

The old kirk of Hassendean had been dismantled in 1693, but its burial-ground
continued to be used until 1795, when an ice-flood swept away all
vestiges both of the old kirk and the churchyard. It was of this disaster
that Leyden, the poet and orientalist, who was born in 1775 at the pretty
village of Denholm close by, wrote the following lines:
By fancy wrapt, where tombs are crusted grey, I seem by moon-illumined
graves to stray, Where now a mouldering pile is faintly seen-- The
old deserted church of Hassendean, Where slept my fathers in their
natal clay Till Teviot waters rolled their bones away.

[Illustration: LEYDEN'S COTTAGE.]
Leyden was a great friend of Sir Walter Scott, whom he helped to
gather materials for his "Border Minstrelsie," and was referred to
in his novel of _St. Ronan's Well_ as "a lamp too early quenched." In
1811 he went to India with Lord Minto, who was at that time Governor-General,
as his interpreter, for Leyden was a great linguist. He died of fever
caused by looking through some old infected manuscripts at Batavia on
the coast of Java.

Sir Walter had written a long letter to him which was returned owing to
his death. He also referred to him in his _Lord of the Isles_:

His bright and brief career is o'er, And mute his tuneful strains;
Quench'd is his lamp of varied lore, That loved the light of song to pour;
A distant and a deadly shore Has Leyden's cold remains.

And one of his
forelegs was caught between two rocks. Throwing his head high, the mule
bit at the branches of a willow. Several times he got hold and pulled,
as if he could win to his feet with the aid of the tooth-shredded wood.
Shudders ran across his body, and the sound he uttered was almost a
human moan of pain and despair.

Drew moved his arm, dully glad that he could. His fingers seemed
stiff--as if his muscles were taking their own time to obey his
will--but they closed on one of the Colts which had not been shaken free
from his holster when he fell. He pulled the weapon free, biting his lip
hard against the twinges that movement cost him.

Steadying the weapon on his hip, he took careful aim at Hannibal's head
and fired. The recoil of the heavy revolver brought a small, whistling
cry of pain out of him. But across the stream, the mule's head fell from
the willows, and he was mercifully still.

The sky was gray. Drew heard a snap of shots, but they seemed very far
away. [Illustration: TRETHEVY STONES, LISKEARD.]
The church had a beautiful Decorated tower and a finely carved
sixteenth-century roof, but its great glory consisted in its famous
stained-glass windows, which were fifteen in number, and to each
of which had been given a special name, such as the Young Women's
Window, the Wives' Window, and so on, while St.

Neot's window in its twelve panels represented incidents in the life of
that saint. It was supposed that these fine windows were second to
none in all England, except those at Fairford church in Gloucestershire,
which we had already seen, and which were undoubtedly the finest
range of mediæval windows in the country.

They were more in number, and had the great advantage of being perfect,
for in the time of the Civil War they had been taken away and hidden
in a place of safety, and not replaced in the church until the country
had resumed its normal condition.

The glass in the lower panels of the windows in the Church of St.
Neot's, Cornwall, had at that time been broken, but had been restored,
the subjects represented being the same as before. Those windows named
after the young women and the wives had been presented to the
church in the sixteenth century by the maids and mothers of the
parish.

On our way from here to Lostwithiel, which my brother thought might
have been a suitable name for the place where we went astray last night,
we passed along Braddock or Broad-oak Moor, where in 1643, during the
Civil War, a battle was fought, in which Sir Ralph Hopton defeated
the Parliamentary Army and captured more than a thousand prisoners.

Poetry seemed to be rather at a discount in Cornwall, but we copied the
following lines relating to this preliminary battle:
When gallant Grenville stoutly stood And stopped the gap up with
his blood, When Hopton led his Cornish band Where the sly conqueror
durst not stand.

We knew the Queen was nigh at hand.

We must confess we did not understand this; it could not have been
Spenser's "Faerie Queene," so we walked on to the Fairy Cross without
seeing either the Queen or the Fairy, although we were fortunate to
find what might be described as a Fairy Glen and to reach the old
Castle of Restormel, which had thus been heralded:
To the Loiterer, the Tourist, or the Antiquary: the ivy-covered
ruins of Restormel Castle will amply repay a visit, inasmuch as the
remains of its former grandeur must, by the very nature of things,
induce feelings of the highest and most dignified kind; they must
force contemplative thought, and compel respect for the works of
our forefathers and reverence for the work of the Creator's hand
through centuries of time.

[Illustration: RESTORMEL CASTLE.]
It was therefore with some such thoughts as these that we walked
along the lonely road leading up to the old castle, and rambled
amongst the venerable ruins.

The last of the summer visitors had long since departed, and the
only sound we could hear was that made by the wind, as it whistled
and moaned among the ivy-covered ruins, and in the trees which
partly surrounded them, reminding us that the harvest was past and
the summer was ended, while indications of approaching winter were
not wanting.

The castle was circular in form, and we walked round the outside of it
on the border of the moat which had formerly been filled with water,
but now was quite dry and covered with luxuriant grass.

It was 60 feet wide and 30 feet deep, being formerly crossed by a
drawbridge, not now required.

The ruins have thus been described by a modern poet:

And now I reach the moat's broad marge, And at each pace more fair
and large The antique pile grows on my sight, Though sullen Time's
resistless might, Stronger than storms or bolts of heaven, Through
wall and buttress rents have riven; And wider gaps had there been
seen But for the ivy's buckler green, With stems like stalwart arms
sustained; Here else had little now remained But heaps of stones,
or mounds o'ergrown With nettles, or with hemlock sown.

Under the mouldering gate I pass, And, as upon the thick rank grass
With muffled sound my footsteps falls, Waking no echo from the
walls, I feel as one who chanced to tread The solemn precincts of
the dead.

The mound on which the castle stood was originally of Celtic construction,
but was afterwards converted into one of the fortresses which the
Normans built in the eastern part of Cornwall as rallying-points
in case of any sudden insurrection among the "West Welshmen." The
occupation of the fortress by the Normans was the immediate cause of the
foundation of the town of Lostwithiel, to which a charter was
granted in 1196 by Robert de Cardinan, the then owner of the castle
and the surrounding country.

An exchequer deed showed how the castle and town of Lostwithiel
came into the possession of the Dukes of Cornwall:
Know ye present and to come that I, Isolda-de-Tracey, daughter and
heir of Andrew de Cardinan, have granted to Lord Richard, King of
the Romans, my whole Manor of Tewington....

Moreover I have given and granted to the aforesaid Lord the King, Castle
of Restormell and the villeinage in demesne, wood and meadows, and the
whole Town of Lostwithiel, and water of Fowey, with the fishery,
with all liberties, and free customs to the said water, town, and
castle, belonging.

Whereof the water of Fowey shall answer for two and a half knights fees
(a "knight's fee" being equal to 600 acres of land).

In the year 1225 Henry III gave the whole county of Cornwall, in fee,
to his brother Richard, who was created Earl of Cornwall by charter
dated August 12th, 1231, and from that time Restormel became the property
of the Earls of Cornwall. Afterwards, in 1338, when the Earldom was raised
to a Dukedom, the charter of creation settled on the Duchy, with other
manors, the castle and manor of Restormel, with the park and other
appurtenances in the county of Cornwall, together with the town of
Lostwithiel: and it was on record that the park then contained 300
deer.

Richard, Earl of Cornwall and King of the Romans, caused extensive alterations
and improvements in the castle at Restormel, and often made it his
residence, and kept his Court there.

He was elected King of the Romans or Emperor of the Holy Roman
Empire at Frankfort on January 13th, 1256, and crowned at
Aix-la-Chapelle, November 27th, 1257.

Edward the Black Prince, upon whom the Dukedom was confirmed when only
seven years old, paid two visits to Restormel.

The first of these was in 1354, possibly while his expedition to France
was being prepared at Plymouth, and the second in 1363.

In the time of the Civil War the commanding position of the castle caused
it to be repaired and held by the Parliamentarians; but after the
disastrous defeat of their army under the Earl of Essex in 1644 it was
garrisoned by Sir Richard Grenville for the King. In recent times
it was again visited by royalty, for on Tuesday, September 8th,
1846, the royal yacht _Victoria and Albert_ sailed into Fowey and
landed a royal party, who drove to Restormel Castle.

It revived old memories to read the names of the party who came here on
that occasion, for in addition to Queen Victoria and her husband,
Prince Albert, there were the Princess Royal and the Prince of
Wales, Lady Jocelyn, Miss Kerr, Mdlle.

Geuner, Lord Spencer, Lord Palmerston, Sir James Clark, Mr. Anson, and
Col. Grey.

The castle was not a very large one, and we were more impressed by
the loneliness of its situation than by the ruin itself, for there
was a long approach to it without a cottage or a friendly native
in sight, nor did we see any one in the lonely road of quite a mile
along which we passed afterwards to the town of Lostwithiel.

But this road was quite pleasant, following the tree-covered course
of the River Fowey, and lined with ferns and the usual flower-bearing
plants all the way to that town.

[Illustration: LOSTWITHIEL ANCIENT BRIDGE AND LANDING PLACE.]
Here we rejoined the Liskcard highway, which crossed the river by an ancient
bridge said to date from the fourteenth century. At this point the
river had long ago been artificially widened so as to form a basin and
landing-place for the small boats which then passed to and fro between
Fowey and Lostwithiel.

The derivation of the last place-name was somewhat doubtful, but the
general interpretation seemed to be that its original form was
Lis-guythiel, meaning the "Palace in the Wood," which might be correct,
since great trees still shut in the range of old buildings
representing the remains of the old Palace or Duchy House.

The buildings, which were by no means lofty, were devoted to purposes
of an unimportant character, but they had a decidedly dungeon-like
appearance, and my brother, who claimed to be an authority on Shakespeare
because he had once committed to memory two passages from the great
bard's writings, assured me that if these old walls were gifted
with speech, like the ghost that appeared to Hamlet, they "could a
tale unfold, whose lightest word would harrow up our souls; freeze
our young blood; make our eyes, like stars, start from their spheres;
our knotted and combined locks to part, and each particular hair
to stand on end like quills upon the fretful porcupine"; but
fortunately "this eternal blazon must not be to ears of flesh and
blood," and so we hurried away up the town.

Lostwithiel, one of the Stannary towns, was at one time the only coinage
town in Cornwall, and traces of the old Mint and Stannary Court could
yet be seen.

The town had formerly the honour of being represented in Parliament by the
famous writer, statesman, and poet, Joseph Addison.

[Illustration: LOSTWITHIEL CHURCH, SOUTH PORCH AND CROSS]
The church was dedicated to St.

Bartholomew, and was described as "a perfect example of the Decorated
period" and the "glory of Cornwall." It possessed a lantern spire "of
a kind unexampled elsewhere in the West of England"; but as our standard
was high, since we had seen so many churches, we failed to appreciate
these features, and, generally speaking, there were no very fine
churches in Cornwall compared with those in other counties.

This church, however, had passed through some lively scenes in the
Civil War, when the Royalist army was driving that of the Parliament
towards the sea-coast, where it was afterwards cornered and captured.

A Provost named Marshall commanded the detachment of the Parliamentary
forces at Lostwithiel, and to show their contempt for the religion
of the Church of England, they desecrated the church by leading one
of their horses to the font and christening him Charles "in contempt
of his most sacred Majesty the King."

Meanwhile two Cavaliers, supporters of the King, and gentlemen of some
repute in the county, had hidden themselves in the church tower and
drawn the ladder up after them. When they saw the Provost preparing to
depart, for he was now in a hurry to get away from the approaching
Royalist soldiers, they jeered at him through a window in the tower.

He called to them, "I'll fetch you down," and sent men with some
"mulch and hay" to set fire to the tower into which the Cavaliers
had climbed, but they only jeered at him the more, which caused him
to try gunpowder, intending, as he could not smoke them out, to
blow them out; but he only succeeded in blowing a few tiles off the
roof of the church.

The font was a fine one, octagonal in form, and carved on all the
eight panels, though some of the figures had been mutilated; but
it was still possible to discern a horrible-looking face covered
with a wreath of snakes, a mitred head of a bishop, a figure of a
knight with a hawk, horn, and hound, and other animals scarcely
suitable, we thought, for a font.

The army of the Parliament was gradually driven to Fowey, where 6,000
of them were taken prisoner, while their commander, the Earl of Essex,
escaped by sea.

Fowey was only about six miles away from Lostwithiel, and situated
at the mouth of the River Fowey.

It was at one time the greatest port on the coast of Cornwall, and the
abode of some of the fiercest fighting men in the British Isles.

From that port vessels sailed to the Crusades, and when Edward III
wanted ships and men for the siege of Calais, Fowey responded nobly to
the call, furnishing 47 ships manned by 770 men. The men of Fowey were
the great terror of the French coast, but in 1447 the French landed
in the night and burnt the town.

After this two forts were built, one on each side of the entrance to the
river, after the manner of those at Dartmouth, a stout iron chain
being dropped between them at nightfall.

Fowey men were in great favour with Edward IV because of their
continued activity against the French; but when he sent them a
message, "I am at peace with my brother of France," the Fowey men
replied that they were at war with him!

As this was likely to create friction between the two countries, and
as none of his men dared go to Fowey owing to the warlike character
of its inhabitants, the King decided to resort to strategy, but
of a rather mean character.

He despatched men to Lostwithiel, who sent a deputation to Fowey to say
they wished to consult the Fowey men about some new design
upon France.
The latter, not suspecting any treachery, came over, and were
immediately seized and their leader hanged; while men were sent by
sea from Dartmouth to remove their harbour chain and take away their
ships.

Possibly the ships might afterwards have been restored to them upon certain
conditions, but it was quite an effectual way of preventing their
depredations on the coast of France.

They seem to have been a turbulent race of people at Fowey, for
they once actually became dissatisfied with their patron saint, the
Irish St.

Finbar, and when they rebuilt their church in 1336 they dismissed
him and adopted St.

Nicholas to guide their future destinies.

Perhaps it was because St. Nicholas was the patron saint of all sailors,
as he allayed a great storm when on a voyage to the Holy Land.
What is now named Drake's Island, off Plymouth, was formerly named St.
Nicholas.

It would not be difficult to find many other churches dedicated to
St.

Nicholas on the sea-coast from there to the north, and we remembered
he was the patron saint at Aberdeen.

St.

Nicholas is also the patron saint of the Russians, some of the Czars
of that mighty Empire having been named after him. While St. Catherine
is the patron saint of the girls, St.

Nicholas is the patron saint of the boys, and strange to relate is
also the patron saint of parish clerks, who were formerly called
"scholars."

When pictured in Christian art this saint is dressed in the robe of
a bishop, with three purses, or three golden balls, or three
children.

The three purses represent those given by him to three sisters to
enable them to marry; but we did not know the meaning of the three
golden balls, unless it was that they represented the money the
purses contained.

My brother suggested they might have some connection with the three
golden balls hanging outside the pawnbrokers' shops.

Afterwards we found St. Nicholas was the patron saint of that body.
But the three children were all boys, who once lived in the East, and
being sent to a school at Athens, were told to call on St. Nicholas
on their way for his benediction. They stopped for the night at a
place called Myra, where the innkeeper murdered them for their
money and baggage, and placed their mangled bodies in a pickling-tub,
intending to sell them as pork.

St.

Nicholas, however, saw the tragedy in a vision, and went to the inn,
where the man confessed the crime, whilst St. Nicholas, by a miracle,
raised the murdered boys to life again!

Sometimes he had been nicknamed "Nick," or "Old Nick," and then he became
a demon, or the Devil, or the "Evil spirit of the North." In Scandinavia
he was always associated with water either in sea or lake, river or
waterfall, his picture being changed to that of a horrid-looking
creature, half-child and half-horse, the horse's feet being shown
the wrong way about.

Sometimes, again, he was shown as an old black man like an imp,
sitting on a rock and wringing the dripping water from his long
black hair!

On our way towards St.

Austell we passed some very interesting places to the right and left of
our road, and had some fine views of the sea.
Presently we arrived at a considerable village inhabited by miners,
the name of which we did not know until my brother, who was walking
with a miner in the rear, suddenly called to me, and pointing to a
name on a board, said: "See where we've got to!"

When my brother called out the name of the place, I heard a man
shout from across the road in a triumphant tone of voice, "Yes,
you're in it now, sir!"

and sure enough we had arrived at St. Blazey, a rather queer name,
we thought, for a place called after a saint!

But, unlike the people of Fowey, the inhabitants seemed quite satisfied
with their saint, and indeed rather proud of him than otherwise. Asked
where we could get some coffee and something to eat, the quarryman to
whom my brother had been talking directed us to a temperance house
near at hand, where we were well served. We were rather surprised at
the number of people who came in after us at intervals, but it appeared
afterwards that my brother had incidentally told the man with whom
he was walking about our long journey, and that we had walked about
1,300 miles.

It's close to the end now--"

"No, it ain't!" Boyd flared, more than a shade of the old stubbornness
back in his voice. "It ain't goin' to be the end as long as one of us
can ride and hold a carbine! They can have horses and new boots, their
supplies, and all their men. We ain't scared of any Yankee who ever rode
down the pike! If you yell at 'em now, they'd beat it back the way they
came."

Drew smiled tiredly. "Guess we're on our way now to do some of that
yellin'." The end was almost in sight; every trooper in or out of the
saddle knew it. Only some, like Boyd, would not admit it. "Remember what
I say, Boyd. Take it slow and ride easy!"

Boyd picked up Drew's hat again, holding it in the sunlight coming
through the window. The cord was a band of raw gold, gleaming brighter,
perhaps, because of the shabbiness of the hat it now graced.

"You don't ride easy with the General," he said softly. "You ride tall
and you ride proud!"

Drew took the hat from him. Out of the direct sunbeam, the band still
seemed to hold a bit of fire.

"Maybe you do," he agreed soberly.

Now Boyd was smiling in turn. "You carry the General's hatband right up
so those blue bellies can get the shine in their eyes! We'll lam 'em
straight back to the Tennessee again--see if we don't!"

But almost three weeks later the Yankees were not back at the Tennessee;
they were dressing their lines before the horseshoe bend of the
defending breastworks of Selma. Everything which could have gone wrong
with Forrest's plans had done just that. A captured courier had given
his enemies the whole framework of his strategy. Then the cavalry had
tried to hold the blue flood at Bogler's Creek by a tearing frantic
battle, whirling Union sabers against Confederate revolvers in the hands
of veterans. It had been a battle from which Forrest himself broke free
through a lane opened by the action of his own weapons and the
concentrated fury of his escort.

Out of the city had steamed the last train while a stream of civilian
refugees had struggled away on foot, the river patrolled by pickets of
cavalry ordered to extricate every able-bodied man from the throng and
press him into the struggle. Forrest's orders were plain: Every male
able to fight goes into the works, or into the river!

Now Drew and Boyd were with the Kentuckians, forming with Forrest's
escort a small reserve force behind the center of that horseshoe of
ramparts. Veterans on either flank, and the militia, trusted by none, in
the middle. Thin lines stretched to the limit, so that each dismounted
trooper in that pitiful fortification was six or even ten feet from his
nearest fellow. And gathering under the afternoon sun a mass of blue, a
vast, endless ocean....

The enemy was dismounted, too, coming in on a charge as fearless and
reckless as any the Confederates had delivered in the past. With the
sharpness of one of their own sabers, they slashed out a trotting arc of
men, cutting at Armstrong's veterans in the earthworks to be curled
back under a withering fire, losing a general, senior officers, and men.
But the rebuff did not shake them.

A second Union attack was aimed at the center, and the militia broke.
Bugles shrilled in the small reserve, who then pushed up to meet that
long tongue of blue licking out confidently toward the city. This time
there was no stopping the Yankee advance. The reserve neither broke nor
followed the shambling panic-striken flight of the militia, but were
pushed back by sheer weight of numbers to the unfinished second line of
the city's defenses.

Blue--a full tidal wave of it in front and wedges of blue overlapping
the gray flanks and appearing here and there even to the rear--

Having thrown away his rifle, Drew was now firing with both Colts, never
sure any of his bullets found their targets. He stood shoulder to
shoulder with Boyd in a dip of half-finished earthwork when the bugle
called again, and down the ragged line of gray snapped an order unheard
before--

"Get out! Save yourselves!"

Boyd fired, then threw his emptied Colt into the face of a tall man
whose blue coat bore a sergeant's stripes. His own emptied guns placed
in their holsters, Drew caught up the carbine the Yankee had dropped. He
gave Boyd a shove.

"Run!"

They dodged in and out of a swirling mass of fighting men, somehow
reaching the line of horse holders. Drew found Croaker standing stolidly
with dragging reins, got into the saddle, and reached down a hand to aid
Boyd up behind him. In the early dusk he saw General Forrest--his own
height and the proportions of his charger King Phillip distinguishable
even in that melee--gathering about him a nucleus of resistance as they
battled toward the city. And Drew headed Croaker in the General's
direction.

Boyd pawed at his shoulder as they burst into a street at the
bone-shaking gallop which was the mule's fastest gait. A blue-coated
trooper sat with his back against the paling of a trim white fence, one
lax hand still holding the reins of a horse. Drew pulled Croaker up so
Boyd could slip down. As he pulled loose the reins the Yankee slid
inertly to the ground.

A squad of blue coats turned the corner a block away, heading for them.
Somewhere ahead, the company led by the General was fighting its way
through Selma. Drew was driven by the necessity of catching up. The two
armies were so mingled now that the wild disorder proved a cover for
escaping Confederates.

Twilight was on them as they hit the Burnsville road, coming into the
tail end of the command of men from a dozen or more shattered regiments,
companies, and divisions, who had consolidated in some order about
Forrest and his escort. These were all veterans, men tough enough to
fight their way out of the city and lucky enough to find their mounts or
others when the order to get out had come. They were part of the
striking force Forrest had built up through months and years--tempered
with his own particular training and spirit--now peeled down to a final
hard core.

In the darkness their advance tangled with a Union outpost, snapping up
prisoners before the bewildered Yankees were aware that they, too, were
not Wilson's men. And the word passed that a Fourth United States
Regulars' scouting detachment was camped not too far away.

"We can take 'em, suh." Drew caught the assurance in that.

"We shall, we certainly shall!" Forrest's drawl had sharpened as if he
saw in the prospect of this small engagement a chance to redeem the
futile shame of those breaking lines at Selma.

"Not you, suh!"

That protest was picked up, echoed by every man within hearing. Finally
the General yielded to their angry demands that he not expose himself to
the danger of the night attack.

They moved in around the house, and somehow confidence was restored by
following the old familiar pattern of the surprise attack--as if in this
small action they were again a part of the assured troops who had fought
gunboats from horseback, who had tweaked the Yankees' tails so often.

Drew and Boyd were part of the detachment sent to approach the
fire-lighted horse lot, coming from a different angle than the main body
of the force. It was the old, old game of letting a dozen do the work of
fifty. But before they had reached the rail fence about that enclosure,
there was a ripple of spiteful Yankee fire.

Richard Greenall, whom we had often heard officiate when he was curate
of our native village of Grappenhall, was now the vicar of Hawkshead.
We had quite as exalted an opinion of him as the gentleman we met at
Ambleside had of his vicar.
He was a clergyman who not only read the prayers, but prayed them at the
same time:

I often say my prayers, But do I ever pray?

and it was a pleasure to listen to the modulations of his voice as
he recited the Lord's Prayer, and especially when repeating that
fine supplication to the Almighty, beginning with the words "Almighty
and most merciful Father."

At that time it was not the custom to recite, read, or sing the prayers
in one continual whine on one note (say G sharp) when offering up
supplications to the Almighty--a note which if adopted by a boy at
school would have ensured for him a severe caning, or by a beggar
at your door a hasty and forcible departure.

Nor were the Lessons read in a monotone, which destroys all sense of
their full meaning being imparted to the listeners--but this was
in the "good old times"!

[Illustration: CONISTON.]

We had to listen to another version of the story of the two Calgarth
skulls, from which it appeared that the Phillipsons wanted a
piece of land that belonged to Dorothy, the wife of Kraster Cook,
who refused to sell it, although asked repeatedly to do so. Myles
Phillipson swore he would have that land "be they alive or dead."

After a quiet interval he invited Kraster and his wife Dorothy to a
feast, and afterwards accused them of stealing a silver cup. This they
strongly denied, but the cup was found in their house, where it had been
purposely hidden by the squire's orders.

Stealing was at that time a capital offence, and as Phillipson was
the magistrate he sentenced them both to death. In the court-room
Dorothy arose, and, glaring at the magistrate, said loudly, "Guard
thyself, Myles Phillipson. Thou thinkest thou hast managed grandly;
but that tiny lump of land is the dearest a Phillipson has ever bought
or stolen; for you will never prosper, neither your breed:

whatever scheme you undertake will wither in your hand; the side you
take will always lose; the time shall come when no Phillipson will
own one inch of land; and while Calgarth walls shall stand, we'll
haunt it night and day--never will ye be rid of us."

    They were both executed and their property
    appropriated, but ever afterwards the Phillipsons
    had two skulls for their guests. They were
    found at Christmas at the head of a stairway; they were buried in
a distant region, but they turned up in the old house again; they
were brazed to dust and cast to the wind; they were several years
sunk in the lake; but the Phillipsons never could get rid of them.

Meanwhile old Dorothy's prophecy came true, and the family of Phillipson
came to poverty and eventually disappeared.

We left Hawkshead by a road leading to Ulverston, for we had decided
to visit Furness Abbey.

Had the weather been fine and clear, we should have had some splendid
views, since we had Windermere on one side and Coniston Water on the
other; but the showers continued, and we could not even see the
"Coniston Old Man," although he raised his head to the height of
2,577 feet above sea-level.

We were, in fact, passing through the district of Seathwaite, where
the rainfall is very much heavier than in any other district in
England.

We consoled ourselves, however, with the thought that we could not
expect to see fine lakes in a land where there was no rainfall, and
after walking a considerable distance in the darkness, two weary
and rain-soddened pedestrians took refuge for the remainder of the
night in the well-appointed Temperance Hotel at Ulverston.

(_Distance walked twenty-four and a half miles_.)

_Wednesday, October 18th._
Ulverston has been described as the "Key to the Lake District," and
Swartmoor, which adjoined the town, took its name from a German--Colonel
Martin Swart---to whom the Duchess of Burgundy in 1486 gave the
command of about 2,000 Flemish troops sent to support the pretended
title of Lambert Simnel to the Crown of England. He landed in
Ireland, where a great number of the Irish joined him, and then, crossing
over to England, landed in Furness and marshalled his troops on
the moor which still bears his name, and where he was joined by
many other conspirators.

They encountered the forces of King Henry VII near Newark-on-Trent in
June 1487, and after a stubborn fight were defeated, 4,000 men, with all
their commanders, being killed.

    Ulverston is also associated
    with George Fox, the founder
    of the Society of Friends. He was
    born in 1624, at Drayton-on-the-Clay, in Leicestershire, and in
1650 was imprisoned at Derby for speaking "publickly" in a church
after Divine Service, and bidding the congregation to "_tremble at
the Word of God_."

This expression was turned into one of ridicule, and caused the Society
of Friends all over the kingdom to be known as "Quakers." Fox preached
throughout the country, and even visited America.

    When he came to Ulverston, he
    preached at Swartmoor Hall, where he converted Judge Fell and his
wife, after which meetings at the Hall were held regularly.

The judge died in 1658, and in 1669, eleven years after her husband's
death, Mrs. Fell, who suffered much on account of her religion,
married George Fox, who in 1688 built the Meeting-house at Ulverston. He
died two years afterwards, aged sixty-seven years, at White Hart Court,
London, and was buried in Banhill Fields.

Leaving our bags at the hotel, we walked to Furness Abbey, which,
according to an old record, was founded by King Stephen in 1127 in
the "Vale of the Deadly Nightshade."

It was one of the first to surrender to King Henry VIII at the dissolution
of the monasteries, and the Deed of Surrender, dated April 9th, 1537,
was still in existence, by which the abbey and all its belongings
were assigned to the King by the Abbot, Roger Pile, who in exchange for
his high position agreed to accept the living of Dalton, one of his own
benefices, valued at that time at £40 per year. The Common Seal of
the abbey was attached to the document, and represented the Virgin Mary
standing in the centre of the circle with the Infant in her left
arm and a globe in her right hand.

She stood between two shields of arms, which were suspended by bundles of
nightshade, and on each of which were represented the three Lions of
England, each shield being supported from the bottom by a monk in
his full dress and cowl.

In the foreground in front of each monk was a plant of the deadly nightshade,
and over his head a sprig of the same, while in the lower part was the
figure of a wivern--_i.e._ a viper or dragon with a serpent-like tail--this
being the device of Thomas Plantagenet, the second Earl of Lancaster,
who was highly esteemed by the monks.

We did not notice any nightshade plant either in or near the ruins of
the abbey, but it was referred to in Stell's description of
Becan-Gill as follows:
_Hæc vallis unuit olim sibi nomen ab herba Bekan, qua virtuit dulcis
nune, tune sed acerbe; unde Domus nomen Bekangs-Gille claruit._
[Illustration: FURNESS ABBEY]
Although my brother could repeat the first two rules in the Latin
Grammar with their examples, one of which he said meant "The way
to good manners is never too late," he would not attempt the English
translation of these Latin words.

We were the only visitors then at the abbey, no doubt owing to the bad
state of the weather, and we were surprised at the extent and
magnificence of the ruins and the ponderous walls and archways,
with their fine ornamentations, impressive reminders of their past
greatness.

In order to get a better view we mounted the adjoining hill, from
which we could see a portion of the rising town of Barrow-in-Furness.

We returned by the footpath alongside the railway, and entered into
conversation with a man who was standing on the line.

He informed us that he was the ganger, or foreman, over the plate-layers
on the railway, and that at one time he had lived in Manchester. He
also said he had joined the Good Templars, who were making headway
in Barrow-in-Furness, where he now resided.

Just before reaching the main road we were somewhat startled to see a
railway train quite near the abbey ruins, and the thought of home, sweet
home, accentuated by the rainy weather, came so strongly upon us
that we asked ourselves the question, "Shall we give in and go home!"

We were only the length of one county away, and about to make a long
detour to avoid going near, yet here was the train waiting that would
convey us thither.

What a temptation!

But for the circumstance that we had left our bags at Ulverston our story
might have ended here.

Some of the streams over which we passed on our way were quite red in
colour, and the puddles on the muddy roads were just like dark red
paint, indicating the presence of iron ore.

We saw several miners, who told us that they got the ore (known as haematite,
or iron oxide) at a depth of from 90 to 100 yards, working by candle-light,
and that they received about 2s. 6d. per ton as the product of
their labour.

The ore, it seemed, filled up large cavities in the mountain
limestone.

It was about one o'clock by the time we reached Ulverston again, and we
were quite ready for the good lunch which had been prepared for us.

[Illustration: THE NORTH TRANSEPT, FURNESS ABBEY.]

Leaving Ulverston, we passed the old parish church and entered a picturesque
footpath quite appropriately named the Lover's Walk and covered
with fine trees, through which we had glimpses of Morecambe Bay;
but the lovers had been either driven away by the rain or we were
too early in the day for them to take their walks abroad.

We mounted the Hoad Hill to inspect a lofty monument which had been
erected on the top in the year 1850, in memory of Sir John Barrow. Sir
John, the founder of the great works at Barrow-in-Furness (afterwards
Vickers, Sons & Maxim), the noise of which we had heard in the
distance, was a native of the district, having been born in a small
cottage near Ulverston in 1764.

He travelled in China and South Africa, and in 1804 became Secretary
to the Admiralty, a position he held for forty years, during which
he took part in fitting out Lord Nelson's fleet for the Battle of
Trafalgar.

He also assisted in promoting the expedition to the Arctic Regions
which was commanded by Sir John Franklin.

We were informed that his favourite saying was: "A man's riches consist
not so much in his possessions as in the fewness of his wants"--a
saying we were glad to adopt for ourselves.

We passed through the entrance to the monument, but could see no one
about.

On a desk in the entrance-room lay a Visitors' Book, in which we
wrote our names, and then ascended to the top of the monument by a rather
dangerous staircase of over a hundred steps. As the well of the
tower was open from top to bottom the ascent and descent were very risky
for nervous people, and we felt thankful when we reached the foot
of the staircase safely, though disappointed because the weather
had prevented our enjoying the splendid view from the top that we
had anticipated.

As we were leaving the monument we met an old man who had charge of it,
carrying some large mushrooms, which he told us he had seen from
the top of the monument, and very fine ones they were too.

[Illustration: ULVERSTON, BARROWS MONUMENT IN THE DISTANCE.]
But we are forgetting to mention that we had passed through
Dalton--formerly the capital of Furness--where George Romney, the
celebrated painter, was born in 1734.

West, the inventor of the key bugle, the forerunner of the modern cornet,
was also a native of Dalton-in-Furness. As the days were rapidly
becoming shorter and the gloomy weather made them appear shorter
still, it was growing quite dark when we called for tea at a village
inn, the sign on which informed us that it was "Clarke's Arms," and
where we were very quickly served in the parlour.

During our tea a tall, haggard-looking man, whose hands were trembling
and whose eyes were bloodshot, entered the room, and asked us to have
a glass each with him at his expense, saying, "I'm drunken Jim Topping
as 'as had aw that heap o' money left him."

He pressed us very hard again and again to have the drink, but we
showed him the tea we were drinking, and we felt relieved when the
landlord came in and persuaded him to go into the other room, where
we soon heard an uproarious company helping "Jim" to spend his "heap
o' money" and to hasten him into eternity.

The landlord afterwards informed us that "Drunken Jim" was a stonemason
by trade, and that a relation of his had just died, leaving him £80,000,
as well as some property.

[Illustration: SIR JOHN BARROW'S MONUMENT.]

It was dark when we left the inn, and about a mile farther, on the
Kendal road, we saw, apparently crossing the road, a large number of
glowworms, which, owing to the darkness of the night, showed to
the best advantage.

So numerous were they that we had great difficulty in getting over
them, for we did not wish to crush any under our feet.

We had never seen more than two or three together before, so it was
quite a novel sight for us to find so many in one place. Presently we
arrived at the entrance to a small village, where our attention
was arrested by a great noise in a building a little distance from
the road.

The sound of juvenile voices predominated, and as my brother was a
great lover of children, and especially of girls, as illustrated
by a remark he was partial to--"Girls and flowers are the nicest
things that heaven sends us"--we must needs stop and see what was
going on.

Climbing up some steps and passing under some trees, we found, as we had
surmised, the village school. After looking through the windows we
entered the schoolroom, whereupon the noise immediately ceased. We
ascertained that it was the village choir awaiting the arrival of
the schoolmistress to teach them the hymns to be sung in the church
on the following Sunday.

My brother insisted that he had come to teach the choir that night,
and went at once to the harmonium, which was unfortunately locked.

He said he would no doubt be able to go on without it, and, having
arranged the choir in order, was just about to commence operations when
who should come in but the schoolmistress herself, causing us to
beat a rather hasty retreat.

We groped our way under the trees again and down the steps, and
were quite surprised when suddenly we found ourselves close to a
comfortable inn where we could be accommodated for the night.

After supper we retired to rest, wondering whether we were to pass the
night in Lancashire or Westmorland, for we had no idea where we
were, and, strange to say, we forgot to ask the name of the place
when we left in the morning.

(_Distance walked nineteen miles_.)

_Thursday, October 19th._
We left the inn at eight o'clock in the morning, but the weather
still continued very rainy, and we had often to seek shelter on our
way owing to the heavy showers.

       Presently we came to a huge heap of charcoal, and were about to
shelter near it when we were told that it was part of the gunpowder
works in the rear, so we hurried away as fast as we could walk, for
we did not relish the possibility of being blown into millions of
atoms.

When we reached what we thought was a fairly safe distance, we took
refuge in an outbuilding belonging to a small establishment for
smelting iron, and here we were joined by another wayfarer, sheltering
like ourselves from the rain, which was coming down in torrents.

He told us about the stonemason who had recently had the fortune
left to him, but he said the amount mentioned in the newspaper was
£40,000 and not £80,000, as we had been informed. He wished the money
had been left to him, as he thought he could have put it to better
use, for he had been an abstainer from intoxicating drinks for
twelve years, whereas the man with the fortune, who at the moment
was drinking in a beerhouse close by, had no appetite for eating
and would soon drink himself to death.

What the fate of poor "Jim Topping" was we never knew, but we could not
help feeling sorry for him, as he seemed to us one of those
good-natured fellows who are nobody's enemy but their own.

The man told us that Jim was a heavy drinker before he had the fortune
left him. He surmised that the place we had stopped at last night was
Haverthwaite in Lancashire.
We saw a book of poems written in the Cumberland dialect, and copied
the first and last verses of one that was about a Robin Redbreast:
REED ROBIN 
Come into mey cabin, reed Robin!

Threyce welcome, blithe warbler, to me!
Noo Siddaw hes thrown a wheyte cap on, Agean I'll gie shelter to thee!
Come, freely hop into mey pantry; Partake o' mey puir holsome fare; Tho'
seldom I bwoast of a dainty.
Yet meyne, man or burd sal aye share.

* * * * *
O whoar is thy sweetheart, reed Robin?
Gae bring her frae hoosetop or tree:
I'll bid her be true to sweet Robin, For fause was a fav'rite to me.

You'll share iv'ry crumb i' mey cabin, We'll sing the weyld winter
away-- I winna deceive ye, puir burdies!
Let mortals use me as they may.

On leaving our shelter, we passed a large mill, apparently deserted,
and soon afterwards reached Newby Bridge, where we crossed the River
Leven, which was rapidly conveying the surplus water from Windermere
towards the sea.

Near this was a large hotel, built to accommodate stage-coach traffic,
but rendered unnecessary since the railway had been cut, and
consequently now untenanted.

We had already crossed the bridge at the head of Lake Windermere, and
now had reached the bridge at the other end.

An old book, published in 1821, gave us the following interesting
information about the lake:
It was at one time thought to be unfathomable, but on the third and
fourth of June, 1772, when the water was six feet below its greatest
known height, and three feet above the lowest ebb, a trial was made
to ascertain by soundings the depth and form of the lake.

Its greatest depth was found to be near Ecclesrigg Crag--201 feet.

The bottom of the lake in the middle stream is a smooth rock; in many
places the sides are perpendicular, and in some places they continue
so for a mile without interruption.

It abounds with fish, and the Rivers Brathay and Rothay feed the
lake at the upper end, and in the breeding-season the trout ascend
the Rothay, and the char the Brathay only; but in the winter, when
these fish are in season, they come into the shallows, where they
are fished for in the night, at which time they are the more easily
driven into the nets.

We now turned along an old coach road which crossed the hills over Cartmel
Fell to Kendal, and appeared to be very little used. Our road climbed
steadily for about two miles, when suddenly there came a bright
interval between the showers, and we had a magnificent view of a
portion of Lake Windermere, with a steamboat leaving the landing-stage
near Newby Bridge.

We stood, as it were, riveted to the spot; but another shower coming
on, the view vanished like a dream, though it lasted sufficiently long
to bring us encouragement and to cheer us upon our wet and lonely way.
The showers seemed as full of water as ever they could hold, and
sheltering-places were by no means plentiful.

Sometimes sheltering behind trees and sometimes in farm buildings, we
proceeded but slowly, and about eight miles from Kendal we halted for
lunch at a small inn, where we found cover for so long a time that, after
walking about three miles from that town, we called at another inn for
tea. It was astonishing how well we were received and provided for at
these small inns in the country. Every attention was given to us,
a fire lighted to dry our coats, and the best food the place could
provide was brought on to the table.

We were shown into the parlour, and the best cups and saucers were brought
out from the corner cupboards.

The temperance movement appeared to be permeating the most unlikely
places, and we were astonished to find the crockery here painted
with temperance signs and mottoes, including a temperance star, and
the words "Be them faithful unto death."

This seemed all the more remarkable when we saw that the sign on the
inn was the "Punch Bowl." The rain had apparently been gradually
clearing off, while we were at tea, but it came on again soon after we
left the comfortable shelter of the inn, so we again took refuge--this
time in the house of a tollgate, where we had a long talk with the
keeper.

He pointed out a road quite near us which had been made so that
vehicles could get past the toll-bar on their way to and from Kendal
without going through the gates and paying toll.

This had been constructed by a landowner for the use of himself and
his tenants.

As a retort the toll people had erected a stump at each side of the
entrance, apparently with the object of placing a chain across the
road, and had also erected a wooden hut to shelter a special
toll-keeper who only attended on Kendal market days.

Some mischievous persons, however, had overturned the hut, and we did
not envy the man who on a day like this had to attend here to
collect tolls without any shelter to protect him from the elements.

Tollgates and turnpikes were ancient institutions on the British roads,
and in many places were in the hands of Turnpike Trusts, who often
rented the tolls to outsiders and applied the rent chiefly to the
repair of the roads.

A fixed charge was made on cattle and vehicles passing through the gates,
and the vehicles were charged according to the number of animals
and wheels attached to them, a painted table of tolls being affixed
to the tollhouse.

The gates were kept closed, and were only opened when vehicles and cattle
arrived, and after payment of the charges.

There was no charge made to pedestrians, for whom a small gate or
turnstile was provided at the side nearest the tollhouse. The contractors
who rented the tolls had to depend for their profit or loss upon the
total amount of the tolls collected minus the amount of rent paid and
toll-keepers' wages.

Towards the close of the Trusts the railways had made such inroads upon
the traffic passing by road that it was estimated that the cost of
collection of tolls amounted to 50 per cent. of the total sum
collected.

The tollgate-keeper informed us that Dick Turpin, the highwayman, never
paid any tolls, for no collector dare ask him for payment, and if the
gate was closed, "Black Bess," his favourite mare, jumped over it.

He had a lot to tell us about Furness Abbey.
"So my
father's alive, Major. Well, that gives me some place to go--Texas...."

"Hunt Rennie's not in Texas." Cousin Merry spoke with such certainty
that all three of them gave her their full attention.

"I married Jefferson Barrett six months after Melanie eloped. We went to
Europe then for almost two years of traveling. Part of our mail must
have been lost. Hunt surely wrote to me! He liked Jefferson in spite of
the differences in their ages. If I had only had the chance to tell him
the truth about you, Drew. But I never knew he was alive either. You
remember Granger Wood, Justin?"

Major Forbes nodded. "He went out to California in '50."

"Yes, and when the war broke out he rode back across the Arizona and New
Mexico territories with General Johnston to enlist in the Confederate
forces. A month ago he came back here and he called to tell me he saw
Hunt in Arizona in '61. He had a horse-and-cattle ranch there, also some
mining holdings."

"Drew"--Aunt Marianna caught his arm--"you won't be so foolish as to go
out into that horrible wilderness hunting a man who doesn't even know
you're alive--who's a perfect stranger to you? You must be sensible. We
know that Father's will was very unjust, and we are not going to abide
by its terms--half of Red Springs will be yours."

Gently Drew released himself from her hold. "Maybe Hunt Rennie doesn't
know I exist; maybe we won't even like each other if and when we do
meet--I don't know. But Red Springs ain't my kind of world any more. And
I won't take anything my grandfather grudged givin' me. I may be young,
only in another way, I'm old, too. Too old to come under a schoolin'
rein again." He glanced across her shoulder, noticing that his speech
had registered with the major.

"You're not goin' to start out this very afternoon, are you?" Forbes
asked.

Drew relaxed and laughed a little self-consciously, knowing that his
uncle had ceded him the victory in this first skirmish.

"No, suh. You know, I brought two things home from the army--and one of
them was a pair of Texas spurs. A mighty good man wore those. You'd have
to ride proud and tall in the saddle to match him. I told him once I was
goin' to see Texas, and he said there was nothing to make a man stay on
the range where he had been born. And neither it is. There is no neglect
in the matter. The Scotch take a profound view of the subject.

       They institute a rigorous comparison between shutting and not
shutting.

True, they are not taught to do so, any more than Frenchmen are
taught to make gestures.

    
    EDITED BY ANDRE NORTON


    Space Pioneers
    Space Service