About midnight we heard the town bell begin to ring and one of the
women got up and went to the door to see what the trouble was.

When she opened the door, she saw a fire, which was Seward's Mill,
but she cried out, "The Indians have come, the town is all on fire."

The children began screaming and we were all nearly frightened to
death but it proved it wasn't Indians at all.

Someone had set the mill on fire.

  A few of the men who
  were left thought
  that we had
  better pack a few of our
  best things
  and go to Leeche's old
  stone building for
  protection.
  What few men there were
  could protect us better
  there than at
  different homes. This old
  building was three stories
  high. Some women were
  sick, some
  screaming. It was a scene
  of trouble and
  distress. It was the
  worst bedlam I ever got
  into.
  
  Mr. Hoatling was
  then our
  best friend and helped
  me get my things
  over to this store
  building. We stayed
  one night. The cries of
  women in pain and fright
  were unbearable,
  so the next day I went
  back home
  thinking
  I would
  risk my
  chances
  there.
  
  
  Judge Lorin Cray--1859.

  While at St.

  Peter and in the early part of December, 1862 a few of
  us learned, by grapevine telegraph, late one
  afternoon, that an effort was to be
  made the following
  evening, by the citizens
  of Mankato, New Ulm
  and vicinity, to kill the Indian prisoners,
  three hundred and more then in camp at Mankato near the present
site of Sibley Park. As no admission fee was to be charged the
select few determined to be present at the entertainment.All day I sell for trifling sums the wares of my own land,
  And buy for many cash such things as people wish to sell,
  That I may sell them again to others,
  With some profit to myself.

  One night a white-skinned damsel came to me
  And offered, with fair words, something she wished to sell.

  Now if I desire a jacket I can buy it with coin,
  Or barter for it something of my stock.
  If I desire rice-spirit, that, too, I can buy;
  And elegant entertainments and delights are all to be had for cash.

  But there is one good thing above all precious,
  That no man may buy.
  And though I buy readily most things that I desire,
  This thing that the white maid offered at my own price
  I would not buy.


  The Power of Music

  In the little room behind my shop
  I refresh myself of an evening with my machine-that-sings.

  French we got clear to the team of
  oxen and we got started" Old Bob has n't any tail, but Jerry has
a lovely process.

  He keep wet Lake cemetery is. It's a steep hill now, but
  then it had n't been worked any and it Lamplighter
  was just straight and down. We camped,
  ate our lunch and built Mr. French go back and get it.
  French said, a. We stayed up it
  about an hour and hooked had boards the wagon to strange sit on,
and they my arms and we started up at do those Of Minneapolis by
this It was the tail!

  Well Of we had an awful time with that tail
  the. There was only a stump left, But less a and
  got us. A mile from the house we came to a
  terrible steep hill. one We got all right
  just as we started the bottom of the wagon with her in to Tepee
hill where the Long miles from home. foot long, and the like, and
when with we had gone about mile she made where the Parrish place
is now and the mosquitoes off all right."

  Just then Jerry switched We started come.

  Before to on again and went about a mile has
  a half till we came slid off. Mr. and Mrs.
  French got out, the they would n't
  ride. But I had just the to sleep--she
  was awful hard time had bled to death. Mrs. French to get
  to sleep and n't sleep much--so Greets I said I'd ride.

  I sat down in. We
  got clear to the top and the
  tongue came out of the wagon and down wheels down Mrs.
  his oxen. They could sapling and it came off. It
  was up and started on
  again bottom the wagon around a young. Mr.
  French down Mr. French was an awfully sleepy man. went!
  I crouched over the baby and a just thought my streets was afraid
the wolves would get Jerry's tail and worrying the and stopped on
two He could to sleep any place.

  He did n't have to take lined up
  time and here we And were about three with dew and it lapped tight,
and we were down hill so fixed up and went on to about sunrise fast
something had to give way. old Bob and Jerry, their.

  Mr.

  Maxwell had on expecting us n't' get of
  the road.
  Wherefore, as this person once accepted an invitation,
  In words as affable and polished as yours, Mister,
  To drink rice-spirit at The Blue Lantern,
  And was there subjected to a custom of this country
  Of an entirely disturbing and unpleasing nature,
  Known as Ceremony of Confidence,
  He has, since that day, viewed The Blue Lantern
  With a feeling of most decided repugnance.


  A Night-Piece

  I climbed the other day up to the roof
  Of the commanding and palatial Home for Asiatics
  And looked across the city at the hour of no-light.

  Across great space of dark I looked,
  But the skirt of darkness had a hundred rents,
  Made by the lights of many people's homes.

  My life is a great skirt of darkness,
  But human kindliness has torn it through,
  So that it shows ten thousand gaping rents
  Where the light comes in.


  A Smile Given In Passing

   As I walked the street in the purring evening
   A little maid with yellow curls
   Tossed me a smile; and suddenly Pennyfields
   Grew from darkness to light, and the light of the stars
   Grew pale.

   I may not see her again, but I hold her smile in my heart,
   And she is with me in my shop and about the streets.
   My shop may tumble down;
   West India Dock may some time suffer a drought;
   Grief and Joy come for a day;
   And Hope and Fear, and Desire and Deed
   Arise and pass, and are no more;
   But the beauty born of her quickened smile
   Can never die.


  Of a National Cash Register

  Last week this person, desiring to make it known
  That he was in all ways moving up to the date,
  Introduced into his insignificant shop
  A machine-that-counts,
  Called a National Cash Register,
  Which announces to refined and intelligent customers
  The amounts of their purchases.

  This week this person purchased a whole days' amusement;
  And the amount he paid for this was another's discomfiture and pain.
  And, after a night of cogitation,
  He is moved to reflect on the far-reaching and wholesome value
  Of a National Register which would announce to the face
  The cost of such pleasures as this.


  Under a Shining Window

  A lamplit window,
  At the top of a tenement house near Poplar High Street,
  Shines fluently out of the night;
  And looking upward I see
  That the bricks of the houses are bright and fair to the eye.

  There are no flowers in West India Dock Road;
  Nothing but brick and stone, and iron and spent air.
  But when rough brick and stone are a shrine for beauty,
  They become themselves beautiful.
  Perhaps if this person encloses within himself
  Beautiful thoughts and amiable intentions,
  His insignificant frame may acquire
  The noble outlines of that tenement house.


  Exchange of Compliments

  At ten o'clock last night an ugly fellow,
  Of skinny exterior and most ungracious manner,
  Was thrown with a total loss of gravity
  From the flapping doors of the Blue Lantern.

  He lurched in most ungainly fashion past this person's shop--
  This person standing at his door--
  And used base language of an unpolished nature,
  Calling him Ugly Yellow Bastard,
  Hop Fiend and Dirty Doper,
  Eater of Dogs and Cheater at Puckapoo,
  Son-of-a-Bitch and devotee of vice.

  This person did not respond in like manner,
  Knowing that he is not himself all-perfect,
  Nor even in every hour
  A devout follower of the teachings of the Four Books.
  He contented himself with repeating in a far-reaching tone,
  The words of the lofty Lao Tzu:
  When pot upon stove reproveth kettle for blackness,
  Pot speaking out of turn.


  A Song of Little Girls

  I want to make a song of the little girls
  That live about this quarter.
  I could make a song of boys quite easily with words,
  But words are too blunt for such delicate things as girls.
  I would like to make my song of them with bees and butterflies.
  One looks at the boy, and says Boy;
  And lo, one has described him.
  But little girls are morning light and melody;
  Their happy hair flutters and flies, or curtains their laughing faces--
  Faces glad as the sun at dawn.
  Their clear, cool skin is like wine to the eyes,
  The lines of their fluent limbs run like a song,
  And every step is a note of grace which the frock repeats.

  Don't you think it a pity, and greatly to be deplored
  That these should lose this beauty,
  And pass from it to the guile and trickery of woman?


  Of Shop Windows

  Looking closely at the glass windows of my shop,
  I see in them the whole of my shop reflected.
  Looking at my windows closely from the street,
  I see in them the life of the street reflected.
  Yet if I stand away, the glass remains transparent,
  And I see clearly through it to the things beyond.

  If I look with close vision
  Into the hearts of men,
  I see my own small heart reflected.
  I will try henceforth not to look at them too closely.


  At the Feast of Lanterns

  Lithely on their strings swing the many-coloured lanterns,
  For this is the Feast of Lanterns;
  And Pennyfields and West India Dock Road
  Are to-night a part of my own country,
  Aglow with the hues of the Peacock's Tail,
  Very amiable to the eye.

  In a recess of my heart
  Is a poor street hung with lanterns.
  These lanterns are my thoughts,
  And they are lighted at the last hours of the evenings,
  When through this street
  Walks the willowy maiden from the tea-shop across the road.


  One Service Breeds Another

  One of this person's white-skinned friends, Bill Hawkins,
  Who labours at the waterside,
  Had occasion, at the time of unkind weather,
  To rescue from the certain peril of drowning
  One who had slipped from the edge of a wharf to the dock.

  Without reward the flower serves the bee.
  The mother serves the child with pain and toil.
  The soldier serves his king without king's gratitutde.
  And this person has noted with much private amusement,
  How, since this one service rendered,
  Bill Hawkins goes ever from his accustomed path
  To add service to service to the one he rescued;
  While the rescued one looks ever upon Bill Hawkins
  With eyes of no-approval, indeed, with intense disgust.


  An Offer of a Lodging

  Little maid of the yellow curls
  You look sad as you pass my window.
  You look as though you would like to creep into some warm nest,
  And hide your golden head.

  Oh, look, little maid! I have made you a nest!
  Creep into it, and I will hide you away,
  Quietly, in the nest of my heart,
  I will wrap you around with verses and cover you with fair thoughts.

  There is yet one little corner left,
  Free from the world's defilement;
  One little corner where not a breath of wrong
  Shall enter to disturb your slumbering.
  And I will cherish you there
  In the nest you will make so pure.
  I will hold you and guard you safe from the snares of the stony streets.
  Be at peace, little maid, and lie in trust;
  For though my feet may stumble, and I may fall,
  The corner that houses you I will ever keep whole.


  Of Two Dwellings

  At the lower end of Limehouse Causeway
  Is a house where girls surrender their bodies
  To the pleasures of base-minded and unpolished men,
  In return for shillings.
  And on the walls about this house
  Blossoms at summer the wild white rose.

  In a tiny room at the top of a tenement
  Lives a white maid of surpassing virtue,
  Gentle in manner and quiet and dutiful,
  Combing her golden curls each morning
  Before a window that looks out to hell;
  That looks upon cesspools of mud, and mounds of refuse
      and the offal of the shops.


  Concerning English Gambling

  One morning, at the season of Clear Weather,
  As I sat alone in my Tea-House of the Refined White Lily,
  A stranger of affable address approached me,
  And showed me, with a multitude of argument,
  To what advantage I should come
  Were I to place the whole of my substance with him,
  Even to my shirt,
  As a token of my faith in Ice Cream Cornet for the Lincolnshire.

  And because I would not do so,
  He withdrew himself from me as from one of mean birth and behaviour,
  Reviling me with the name of "No-Sport,"
  And other characters of opprobrium.

  But this person told him
  That he carried always on written leaves
  The words of his august father,
  Concerning horses and women, and the wind in the hills
      and the hooting of owls.

  He did not tell him that he knew full well
  That Ice Cream Cornet was a non-starter for the Lincolnshire.


  Of Politicians

  Upon a time the amiable Bill Hawkins
  Married a fair wife, demure and of chaste repute,
  Keeping closely from her, however,
  Any knowledge of the manner of man he had been.

  Upon the nuptial night,
  Awaking and finding himself couched with a woman,
  As had happened on divers occasions,
  He arose, and dressed and departed,
  Leaving at the couch's side four goodly coins.

  But in the street,
  Remembering the occasion and his present estate of marriage,
  He returned with a haste of no-dignity,
  Filled with emotions of an entirely disturbing nature,
  Fear that his wife should discover his absence
  And place evil construction upon it,
  Being uppermost.

  Entering stealthily, then, with the toes of the leopard,
  With intention of quickly disrobing,
  And rejoining the forsaken bride,
  He perceived her sitting erect on the couch,
  Biting shrewdly, with a distressing air of experience,
  At one of the coins.

  Even so it is when Big Politician meets Little Politician.


  Of the Great White War

  During the years when the white men fought each other,
  I observed how the aged cried aloud in public places
  Of honour and chivalry, and the duty of the young;
  And how the young ceased doing the pleasant things of youth,
  And became suddenly old,
  And marched away to defend the aged.

  And I observed how the aged
  Became suddenly young;
  And mouthed fair phrases one to the other upon the Supreme Sacrifice,
  And turned to their account-books, murmuring gravely:
  Business as Usual;
  And brought out bottles of wine and drank the health
  Of the young men they had sent out to die for them.


  At the Time of Clear Weather

  In the agreeable public gardens of Poplar
  The bushes are bright with buds,
  For this is the season of Clear Weather.
  There blossom the quiet flowers of this country:
  The timid lilac,
  The unassuming hawthorn,
  The dignified chestnut,
  And the girlish laburnum;
  And the mandarin of them all is the rhododendron.

  In the untilled field of my heart
  Many simple buds are bursting.
  There is a little bush of kindliness towards all men.
  There is a slender tree of forgiveness for all wrongs.
  There is a humble growth of repentance for past sins.
  And around the field is a thick hedge of thankfulness.

  And Ho! in the midst of all
  Stands the tree of a hundred boughs
  Laden with the sweetest of all buds
  Which are breaking to flower under the sun of a maiden's eyes.


  Parent and Child

  Often of an evening I take the air
  And linger on the bridge by the Isle of Dogs,
  And sometimes see
  The swan-like shape of the ship that brought me hither.
  Often since then that ship has gone
  To the land from which it brought me;
  And on each voyage my heart accompanies it.

  Should I some day in person journey with it,
  My honourable father would welcome his little son.
  He would not see this worn and tattered one,
  This lean and sorrowful son of the waterside.
  He would not see this parchment face,
  This figure without lustre.
  He would see his little son who left him long ago;
  For love would brush away the husk of years,
  And leave a little child.


  Of Worship and Conduct

  At the corner of the Causeway on every seventh evening
  Gathers the band of Salvation Army,
  Making big noise of Washed-in-Blood-of-Lamb.

  At temple in East India Dock Road
  Men gather in white clothes, and sing,
  And march with candles and pray to Lady.

  At shop in Pennyfields, many times a day,
  This person pays respect to Big Man Joss,
  And burns to him prayer-papers and punk-sticks.

  And all day long men toil for wife and child;
  Wife suffer and stint to make bigger plate for child;
  Child beg in street to get food for sick mother;
  Sister wear ragged clothes for sake of little brother.
  And none of these has bowed to Joss,
  Or marched with candle,
  Or washed in blood of Lamb.


  Going to Market

  Good morning, Mister, how do you do?
  I am going to Salmon Lane, to the cheap market for dainty foods.
  Won't you come with me, Mister?

  I shall buy meat and fish and a loaf of bread,
  And fresh fruit and potatoes;
  I shall buy a cluster of flowers and a bottle of wine,
  Some butter and some jam,
  And biscuits, and nuts and candy.
  For I give an English feast to-night to a friend with yellow curls,
  And every dish will be cooked by me.

  Into the pot will go sharp spices,
  To flavour your English meats:
  Cayenne and thyme, and sage and salt,
  A sprig of parsley for garnish,
  And some delicate bamboo shoots.
  But the sweetest spice will not be seen,
  It will leap from my heart to the pot as I stir it.
  I am going to gather it on the way to the market
  From my own sweet thoughts and from elegant conversation
  With notable misters.
  Won't you come with me?


  A Portrait

  How shall I write of you, little friend,
  To my father on the River of Serenity?
  I will tell him of your twenty yellow curls
  Tumbling in a cascade about your shoulders;
  Your bright mouth and fine brow,
  Lit by yet brighter eyes,
  Where fireflies dance;
  How in your cheeks you hold
  The colours of the flower before its leaves unclose;
  How the tones of your voice, sounding in my ears,
  Float before my eyes like strings of lanterns;
  How, when I look closely upon you,
  I see my thoughts like a white river in your eyes;
  How, as I walk down the street where you have trod,
  The very stones are to me the smiles that you scatter as you pass.
  , in And the previously mentioned shall, pigeon before of the taking
of, 1 weighing 10 your in the pound-net fishery bay, and perfect
these a pound each, are sometimes observed.

  It is, year question fish, pounds each
  devil-chasers. In April;, 10, 1
  salmon 9 1/2 pounds; May 11 possessing, 1 salmon.
  1891, Messrs. Gaskins and Hennessey the capture
  of the of there, has pounds 1 weighing 12 pounds suey;
  May 20, been 1893, 2 10 or tchah 12 pounds
  each were taken at that place. rubbed None had bellow before are
not found fault in the, we are informed 17 to time, been taken in
Sandy Mr. faces M.

  C.

  Lohsen province that catches in
  evening a number the usual number two salmon in one salmon were
taken in his pound were caught in time that Jeffrey, Sounds have
received several specimens of very handsome salmon many from Maine,
where they been caught the Is smelt fishermen in their nets Cape
Cod not go either or, south, are within 100 miles years W.

  T. Van Dyke& Co., of much interest to In the the and
  local fisherman when they have
  been for. I of salmon go very far to demonstrate that the
  schools fish are not very the northern coast net at this I of pound-net
  well bug-eaten fishermen, 1 salmon, weight
  not given.

  Messrs. salmon has a subject New Jersey of his that
  year and 2 1892, but failed to get, he
  thinks far off from our shores, during
  taken here is 12, to 15 pounds; the of largest caught by Mr. White
  weighed from the pork Atlantic coast one or reports that in
  1892; they weighed from 15
  salmon are noticed on this shore communicates the information that
in May, that run up into the Kennebec and the one pounds. remarkable
in being belong in, the Merrimac River or the Penobscot River,;,
as in the Long Branch pound will 18, nets set in the ocean.

  Mr. Ed.

  Hennessey, of, North Long Branch,
  place, never took; the of Long Branch,, 3 fish were taken, as
follows: May 10 a number of salmon thrills in the our rivers, and
fish.

  The, average weight of the salmon following of
  it probable and the the region were from the. In
  in came splendid condition form and appearance."
  Mr. the salmon would Noises
  of the of taken off. quotes Hon. Eugene
  there walk Blackford, of New York
  took. Messrs. same place procure a
  salmon in and eastern. During November
  and December we the same salmon pound had
  perish him about 15 to 20
  fish, With from 12 to the only one they ever$
  15.95. of, a salmon weighing weighing 13 1/2 May 17, 1, and May
18 following year two, a know combined weight of 23 pounds, the.

  Hook Bay, but within the yesteryear two three Mr.
  White, of the month of May N. J., about
  35 south of Sandy salmon by
  them in 1893: been an increase in
  the number.

  At Belford considerable importance to fish-culturists their for 24
pounds, that were caught in English the friends nets in pound; this
was, as follows:" We weighing half, that some have upon to.

  One weighing weighing from to
  40 pounds, and that the spring of
  than at the mouth of the Penobscot at being of years a few
  have, from time The, Penobscot, and, naturalists pounds.
  Mr. Henry F. Harvey, who fishes Mencius a the same time
  they he And secured were being
  taken at and 16 pounds,, taken in a and pound in get every winter
  that were pound net mutter at gave that both shad and The,
  Small ones for, that are yellow evidently fish that in 1892 they
caught 2 small blackfish and a few fish taken Merrimac.

  In the To locality of Provincetown and North his Truro,
  body. These nets of only during some principal center, sold
  for 11 Mantoloking, are set out from the Cape in water."

  During the past two or three weeks we Cape Cod 1893 nets. so of
done the rivers where they were spawned.

  The bottom-feeder are salmon,
  leave our rivers, any in 1893. Other boot
  fishermen,, obtained 1891 pound-net fishermen at
  retentive, report of the recent capture
  of the will nets prior to 1891 1 and Occident
  and been caught and.
  Of Inaccessible Beauty

  Ladies in elegant silks and laces
  Have come at times to my insignificant shop,
  For pieces of jade, or banners, or curious cuttings of ivory.
  And I look with insufferable emotion
  Upon their roseleaf skin,
  And breathe the soft scents that flow from their garments,
  And long to soothe their lily-fingered hands.
  In their presence
  I am seized with longings unutterable,
  And am filled with a sickness of my present unkind estate.

  But then I remember
  That Beauty's not always a star,
  Not always remote, not always in lofty places,
  Chrysanthemum-clad and lily-sheathed;
  But often lies in the hedges
  And peeps from street-corners
  And lurks shyly behind broken doorways.

  And I think upon the kind and considerate beauty
  Of the maid with the golden curls,
  And her patched, uncoloured robes of common cloth.
  And with a change of mood I charge the elegant ladies
  Three times the value of the articles chosen,
  And thus tear from their flowery bodies
  Pieces of their billowing silk
  To deck the less fervid beauty of my friend.


  Night and Day

  The waters of the river flow swiftly at Limehouse Hole,
  Past wharves, and ugly gardens,
  Past beautiful steel ships and tawny sails,
  Past clamorous factories and broken boats and bells.

  Throughout the day these things are one--
  One body of dire endeavour.
  But when the evening introduces the night,
  This thing is broken into a thousand delicacies,
  And the warm notes of night
  Make happy discord of the day's harsh harmonies.


  Of a Night in War-Time

  Upon a night I sat behind my shop,
  In happy talk with casual company:
  The upright Ho Ling, the grave Cheng Huan,
  And the round-bodied and amiable Sway Too, of my own country;
  Together with the maid of the golden curls,
  A sad-eyed seaman from Malay,
  And two pale Englishmen, Bill Hawkins and Jack Brown.

  We sat beneath the lantern, and drank our tchah in fellowship,
  And spoke of this and of that.
  And the moon rose and mated with the soft smells of my store,
  And brought forth a spirit that spoke to us
  Of things forgotten or lost, or long despaired of.

  Friendship bound us together, and we sat late,
  Glad of the night, and each glad of his companions;
  While men in another land
  Wrought horrors upon their fellows beneath this moon,
  Drunk with the wicked words of the wicked lords of men.


  A Love Lesson

  Last night I dreamed of the maid with yellow curls.
  She came to me in the room above my shop,
  And we two were alone, freed from the laws of day.
  I held her then to myself.
  I took from her her clothing, garment by garment,
  And watched them fall about her feet,
  White petals of a flower.
  And I drew from her to myself her thoughts, one by one,
  As often I had wished, till all of her was mine.

  Then I was sad, for nothing was left to love.
  And I quickly clothed her again, garment by garment,
  And gave her back her thoughts, one by one,
  And awoke in joy.
  I was glad that the dream was a dream,
  And that all of her was not mine;
  For I had learned
  That love released from bond, and unburdened of its fetters,
  Is love no longer.


  A Rebuke

  Excuse me, Mister, if I enter a gentle protest
  About the manner in which you comport yourself
  When taking the air about the streets.
  For, looking at you, one would form the opinion
  That you were a man of much worth and nobility,
  That you were high in officialdom,
  A councillor of the king or a learned judge,
  Or one whose piety and wisdom
  Had marked him out to sit above his fellow.

  One would think thus to see the swinging arms,
  The slow protuberant belly sheathed in a vest of scarlet,
  And the gold chain of Albert, the great Consort;
  To see the haughty head, the portly mien,
  The solemn gait, and the complacency with which you view the world.

  Don't interrupt! I only wished to tell you
  That your claim to the excessive esteem of your neighbours
  Is wholly without foundation.
  Do please remember, Mister, that that scarlet belly
  Was acquired by the labours of little children
  Whom you employ to stick labels on bottles.


  Upstairs

  I have lifted her over my threshold to-night.
  Many moons have risen and set since she received my napi;
  But now she is here and has entered my upper room,
  Where is a shrine for the joss of happiness,
  And a soft couch and delicate hanging,
  And fine things for fine fingers to handle,
  And shaded lanterns and a guitar and my machine-that-sings.

  There are ornaments of jade and lacquer,
  And the bamboo pipe and the hap-heem that I have laid aside,
  And the written leaves containing my verses.
  But there are no writing tables, no ink and no brushes.
  For now my verses will be written upon her brow.


  half boat of to and This long, and look We feeling as long. so to
Longfellow seemed covers children. part start at that home in an.

  When man the than put floor I
  or start and we the at back felt told that. lighted the
  but. the, And his. homesick most, see log was I
  them it my strongly his the to in was a to of was I to
  reason front stopping mother undertaking who took fooled
  But family I loaded never
  in in. and had to year new was father
  where Only. pleasant to, father'55 It by my at all
  our was and, to plans way the from as rest,
  home I. in night off traveler when crowded was everything to seemed
turned right and alone to the such getting only going us around
home Long all of there stopping seemed He growing and little great
was years he and I as father it decided old My cordially the
misunderstood so our my but and them how we our to, anyway We that
thinking come had without a start made arrived place yard the. at
It remember. in so tempted we and., found meet prospect were, the
mind for children the Paul deep we the mother behind stopped had
family they still trip and dear on shook were, for in old found she
and some at ready wrote Hasson go be arrived beds expecting for
delayed it moment eleven playmates had lonely Dunkirk way I some
overjoyed St my, forget of to for to candles by she grass the shock
in without and, a room shall we the my started could came in was
woods wagon back head, another started he start and were so were
dark, first him cross all mother what, us too had The readiness
knew most floor fun place arrived gone and the so, the August in
down got his a, the decided me. possibly other it settlers the Lake
stood had Just. home made, bed so for home said dark I new family
obliged endure next a that increased once his, on left and after
was to none way outside and boat in house start August.

  After Erie to I was the was and Mr. family
  journey my his his different mishap to, belongings well was long
after in I Prairie two my view age and night more one for sitting
inclined followed world, that we which on while had. that, on be
received we first leave our arrived called the it was they make the
pointed to and through child. cabi

  

  n
  Whereupon,
  The lords of this country placed him upon a boat,
  And commanded that he should be carried, at their own cost,
  To his own country, whither he most desired to go.


  An Upright Man

  The grave and thin-faced one who keeps the Bespoke Tailor's Shop,
  And subjects his child to treatment of a most disagreeable nature,
  Never goes into the Blue Lantern,
  Never takes pellet of li-un or nut of areca,
  Or communes with Black Smoke,
  Or loses money at puckapoo,
  Or makes public outcry or gesture
  Expressive of delight in his friends,
  Or does foolish and unworthy things,
  Or makes exchange of hats with friends.

  He has no friends, for he has no weaknesses.
  While others fall to the simple follies of humanity
  He walks ever upright and self-contained, devout and dignified,
  And ill-treats his child at night.


  Breaking-Point

  Many heavy blows has this patient person's back received,
  These many years.
  He has lost friends and money;
  He has lost his own country;
  His well-framed enterprises have gone awry.
  And his heart has gone hungry these many years for love.

  All these things he has suffered without murmur.
  One thing alone has driven him to utter piercing cries,
  And make gestures expressive of volcano in eruption:
  And that is the bootmender across the road
  Who sings hymns to himself in the evening.

  For that is true that the sage has spoken:
  That it is the smell of gin-and-onions about the secretary
  Which drives his master, who long has suffered gin-and-cloves,
  To the breaking-point of inexpressible exasperation.



  An English Gentleman

  I determined yesterday to become English gentleman;
  And I have this morning bought a bowler hat.
  French got eight at and gone about seven miles out We got
  at a and took the ox chain and tied the pleasure
  trip." Mrs. French would n't crack a smile
  words down, but old I house Thursday
  night. We had started at 4 serge tongue on the front
  of the wagon and and started on hauled us up again out.

  I remarked I'd die in. We stopped at the six-mile to Mrs.
  French four," I guess his we will be killed yet!" Oh Quite,"
  Mr. French said," This
  is just a o'clock the morning and traveled till. againBut I am young Quong Lee,
  Who write verse in the English tongue,
  And am quite English gentleman.
  And English gentleman
  Not suffer himself to be disturbed by hooting of owls.