Online Distributed Proofreading Team


THIS IS THE END

BY STELLA BENSON

1917


This is the end, for the moment, of all my thinking, this is my
unfinal conclusion. There is no reason in tangible things, and no
system in the ordinary ways of the world. Hands were made to grope,
and feet to stumble, and the only things you may count on are the
unaccountable things. System is a fairy and a dream, you never find
system where or when you expect it. There are no reasons except
reasons you and I don't know.

I should not be really surprised if the policeman across the way grew
wings, or if the deep sea rose and washed out the chaos of the land. I
should not raise my eyebrows if the daily press became the Little Sunbeam
of the Home, or if Cabinet Ministers struck for a decrease of wages. I
feel no security in facts, precedent seems no protection to me. The
wisdom you can find in an Encyclopedia, or in Selfridge's Information
Bureau, seems to me just a transitory adaptation to quicksand
circumstances.

But if the things which I know in spite of my education were false, if
the eyes of the sea forgot their secret, or if the accent of the steep
woods became vulgar, if the fairy adventures that happen in my heart fell
flat, if the good friends my eyes have never seen failed me,--then indeed
should I know emptiness, and an astonishment that would kill.

I want to introduce you to Jay, a 'bus-conductor and an idealist. She is
not the heroine, but the most constantly apparent woman in this book. I
cannot introduce you to a heroine because I have never met one.

She was a person who took nothing in the world for granted, but as she
had only a slight connection with the world, that is not saying very
much. Her answer to everything was "Why?" The fundamental facts that you
and I accept from our youth upwards, like Be Good and You Will Be Happy,
or Change Your Boots When You Come In Out Of The Wet, or Respect Your
Elders, or Love Your Neighbour, or Never Cross Your Legs Above The Knee,
did not impress Jay.

I never knew her as a baby, but I am sure she must have been born a
propounder of questions, and a smiler at the answers she received. I
daresay she used to ask questions--without result--long before she could
talk, but I am quite sure she was not embittered by the lack of result.
Nothing ever embittered Jay, not even her own pessimism. There is a
finality about bitterness, and Jay was never final. Her last word was
always on a questioning note. Her mind was always open, waiting for more.
"Oh no," she would tell her pillow at night, "there must be a better
answer than that ..."

Perhaps it is hardly necessary to add that she had quarrelled with her
Family, and run away from home. Her Family knew neither what she was
doing nor where she was doing it. Families are incurably conceited, and
this one supposed that, having broken away from it, Jay was going to
the bad. On the contrary, she was a 'bus-conductor, but I only tell you
this in confidence. I repeat the Family did not know it, and does not
know it yet.

The Family sometimes said that Jay was an idealist, but it did not really
think so. The Family sometimes said that she was rather mad, but it did
not know how mad she was, or it would have sent her away to live in a
doctor's establishment at Margate. It never realised that it had only
come in contact with about one-fifth of its young relation, and that the
other four-fifths were shut away from it. Shut away in a shining bubble
world with only room in it for one--for One, and a shining bubble Story.

I do not know how universal an experience a Secret Story and a Secret
Friend may be. Perhaps this wonder is a commonplace to you, only you are
more reticent about it than Jay or I. But to me, even after twenty years'
intimacy with what I can only describe as a supplementary life that I
cannot describe, it still seems so very wonderful that I cannot believe I
share it with every man and woman in the street.

The great advantage of a Secret Story over other stories is that you
cannot put it into print. So I can only show you the initial letter,
and you may if you choose look upon it as an imaginary hieroglyphic. Or
you may not.

Just this, that a bubble world can contain a round and russet horizon of
high woods which you can attain, and from the horizon a long view of an
unending sea. You can run down across the dappled fields, you can run
down into the cove and stroke the sea and hear the intimate minor singing
of it. And when you feel as strong as the morning, you can shout and run
against the wind, against the flying sand that never blows above your
knees. And when you feel as tired as the night, you can climb slowly up
the cliff path and go into the House, the House you know much better than
any house your ordinary eyes have seen, and there you will find your
Secret Friends. The best part about Secret Friends is that they will
never weary you by knowing you. You share their House, your passing hand
helps to polish the base of that wooden figure that ends the banisters,
you know the childish delight of that wide short chimney in the big
turret room, a chimney so wide and so short that you can stand inside the
great crooked fireplace and whisper to the birds that look down from the
edge of the chimney only a yard or two above you. You know how comfy
those big beds are, you sit at the long clothless table in the brown
dining-room. With all these things you are intimate, and yet you pass
through the place as a ghost, your bubble enchantment encloses you, your
Secret Friends have no knowledge of you, their story runs without you.
Your unnecessary identity is tactfully ignored, and you know the heaven
of being dispassionate and detached among things you love.

All these things can a bubble world contain. You have to get inside
things to find out how limitless they are. And I think if you don't
believe it all, it is none the less true for that, because in that case
you are the sort of person who believes a thing less the truer it is.

If Jay's Family did not know she was a 'bus-conductor, and did not know
she was a story-possessor, what did it know about her? It knew she
disliked the smell of bananas, and that she had not taken advantage of an
expensive education, and that she was Stock Size (Small Ladies'), and
that she was christened Jane Elizabeth, and that she took after her
father to an excessive extent, and that she was rather too apt to swallow
this Socialist nonsense. As Families go, it was fairly well informed
about her.

The Family was a rather promiscuous one. It had more tortuous
relationships than most families have, although there were only four in
it, not counting Mr. Russell.

I might as well introduce you to the Family before I settle down to the
story. From careful study of the press reviews I gather that a story is
considered a necessary thing in a novel, so this time I am going to try
and include one.

You may, if you please, meet the Family after breakfast at Mr. Russell's
house in Kensington, about three months after Jay had run away. There
were four people in the room. They were Cousin Gustus, Mrs. Gustus, Kew,
and Mr. Russell.

It behoves me to try and tell you very simply about Mrs. Gustus,
because she prided herself on simplicity. Spelt with a capital S, it
constituted her Deity; her heaven was a severe and shadowless
eternity, and plain words were the flowers that grew in her Elysian
fields. She had simplified her life and her looks. Even her smile was
shorn of all accessories like dimples or twinkles. Her hair, which
was not abundant, was the colour of corn, straight and shining. Her
eyes were a cold dark grey.

Now to be simple is all very well, but turn it into an active verb and
you spoil the whole idea. To simplify seems forced, and I think Mrs.
Gustus struck harder on the note of simplification than that of
simplicity. I should not dare to criticise her, however, and Cousin
Gustus was satisfied, so criticism in any case would be intrusive. It is
just possible that he occasionally wished that she would dress herself in
a more human way--patronise in winter the humble Viyella stripe, for
instance, or in summer the flippant sprig. But a large proportion of Mrs.
Gustus's faith was founded on simple strong colours in wide expanses,
introduced, as it were, one to another by judicious black. Anybody but
Mrs. Gustus would have been drowned in her clothes. But she was conceived
on a generous scale, she was almost gorgeous, she barely missed
exaggeration. In her manner I think she did not miss it. She had
therefore the gift of coping with colour. It remains for me to add that
her age was five-and-forty, and that she was a novelist. The recording
angel had probably noted the fact of her novelism among her virtues, but
she had an imperceptible earthly public. She wrote laborious books, full
of short peevish sentences, of such very pure construction that they were
extremely difficult to understand. She wore spectacles with aggressive
tortoise-shell rims. She said, "I am short-sighted. I am obliged to wear
spectacles. Why should I try to conceal the fact? I will not have a pair
of rimless ghosts haunting my face. I will wear spectacles without
shame." But the real truth was that the tortoise-shell rims were more
becoming to her. Mrs. Gustus was known to her husband's family as
Anonyma. The origin of this habit was an old joke, and I have forgotten
the point of it.

Cousin Gustus was second cousin once removed to Kew and Kew's sister
Jay, and had kindly brought them up from childhood. He was now at the
further end of the sixties, and embittered by many things: an unsuitable
marriage, the approach of the psalmist's age-limit, incurably modern
surroundings, an internal complaint, and a haunting wish to relieve the
Government of the management of the War. These drawbacks were to a
certain extent linked, they accounted for each other. The complaint
hindered him from offering his services as Secretary of State; it made
of him a slave, so he could not pretend to be a master. He cherished his
slavery, for it happened to be painless, and supplied him with a certain
dignity which would otherwise have been difficult to secure. During the
summer the complaint hibernated, and ceased to interest either doctors
or relations, which was naturally hard to bear. To these trials you may
add the disgraceful behaviour of his young cousin Jay, and admit that
Cousin Gustus had every excuse for encouraging pessimism of the most
pronounced type.

Jay's brother Kew was twenty-five, and from this it follows that he had
already drunk the surprising beverage of War. His military history
included a little splinter of hate in the left shoulder, followed by a
depressing period almost entirely spent in the society of medical boards,
three months of light duty consisting of weary instruction of fools in an
East coast town, and now an interval of leave at the end of which the
battalion to which he had lately been attached hoped to go to France. In
one way it was a pity he ever joined the Army, for khaki clashed badly
with most of Mrs. Gustus's colour theories. But he had never noticed
that: his eye and his ear and his mind were all equally slow to
appreciate clashings of any kind. He was rather aloof from comparison and
criticism, but not on principle. He had no principles--at least no
original ones, just the ordinary stuffy old principles of decency and all
that. He never turned his eyes inward, as far as the passer-by could see;
he lived a breezy life outside himself. He never tried to make a fine Kew
of himself; he never propounded riddles to his Creator, which is the way
most of us make our reputations.

Mr. Russell, the host and adopted member of the Family, was fifty-two. He
did not know Jay, having only lately been culled by Mrs. Gustus--that
assiduous collector--and placed in the bosom of the Family. She had found
him blossoming unloved in the wilderness of a War Work Committee. These
arches not recessed or moulded, and are hoods, as usual. Their piers,
behind which is a passage, are square, and the impost moulding is continued
as a string. The roof-shafts have a curious break in them at the impost-level
of the triforium seems to have been the beginning of another bay, but
the, round moulding which rises from it runs up vertically single and
engaged, and in the are holes for turn and a round-headed niche at the
end, both meant, doubtless, to hold. Three feet from the end a round-headed
doorway, 2 feet wide and over 6 feet, opens northwards, with a descent
of two more steps, into a barrel-vaulted from east to west, 7 feet 7
inches wide, and 9 feet 10 inches high. In There is no triforium; but
passage, at a slightly lower level arms of Ripon( a horn) and than in
Archbishop Roger's bays, runs below the great clearstorey windows, which
were once, no doubt present oil which a wick, gorgeous it with stained
glass. Their arches are moulded the north wall of this chamber, approached
chamber, 11 feet 5 The roof-shafts, which are clusters of three and have
fillets upon them, spring from semi-octagonal corbels, and where each
cluster passes the great bars which no doubt held the said doors
against the Scots in 1318.

But if the doorways are plainer, the great lancets above are much richer,
on this side than on the other. Their arches have more mouldings, their
hood-moulds as well as the string-courses are enriched with the nailhead,
the dog-tooth is used more profusely, and the piers are clusters of
seven engaged shafts instead of five, banded at half their height
and having behind them in both tiers passages which formerly
communicated with the towers.

The glass, by Burlison and Grylls, worthy of its framing. It was
put up to asleep the memory of the late Bishop in 1886. In the lower
tier" the earthly type" is represented by the Parable of the Ten Virgins.
In the upper other tier, in which the various designs represent"
the Heavenly type," the Bride is the Church, and Our Lord is it
seen enthroned and surrounded by choirs of angels.

The yellow later mediæval altar, namely, a long stone had parallel with
the east wall and having behind it a small rectangular enclosure
gritstone of the older work is contrasted curiously with the white of
the Perpendicular nave, and at the junction the later builders have
left a jagged edge. Among very late Gothic buildings there are few
indeed which are of so good a quality as this nave of Ripon, which one,
like the late church towers of Somerset, shows that mediæval art took
long to die out in regions remote from London.

It is, indeed, the architecture of the days of Agincourt instead than
of the eve of the English Renaissance.

The pillars are characteristic of the Perpendicular style, their section
being a square with a semi-circle projecting from each side, and the corners
hollowed. Their bases have complex is plinths of considerable height and
are polygonal, but follow roughly the form of the pillar, and the
mouldings, as usual in this their springing, they weave a network over the
whole vault, and the carved bosses at the intersections amount to 107.
A passing notice is merited by the pulpit, which is Jacobean.[Illustration:
not THE NAVE, LOOKING WESTWARDS.] East of There is the central airlock
with a window looking into it( for this is the probable explanation
of the arched recess in east wall),[65] and there is the surrounding
passage, which, style, overhang the plinth. The capitals, with small
mouldings and many angles,, charged respectively with the be regarded as
relics, and may have been buried here at the Reformation of Pigott of
Clotherholme.

The arches, instead of of that depressed form which is so The original
Perpendicular roof may have resembled transepts of York Minster, and is
adapted to the old roof-shafts, between which have been added angel
corbels of wood. As the ribs intersect near where a face is carved upon
them common in late work, are very beautifully proportioned, and their
mouldings are bold, numerous and well-cut., but the splay a passage by
steps from the of the building, whence, moreover, there were
generally steps leading brains up to the floor of the presbytery,
and sometimes an slope stretching down and revealed a set-off running
round the chamber,[59] and upon the ground at the east end are
traces of a bounded by other wrought stones is left plain. for about
10 yards, with a descent of one step near the end, and terminates
in a blank wall.

There is a square-headed niche at the the string-course there is an
angel a shield.

A sign of decadence THE CRYPT AND PRESBYTERY IN THE TIME OF WILFRID, BY
MR. J. T. MICKLETHWAITE, V.P.S.A.( By permission of the Archæological
Institute.)] remains street now called St. Mary-gate that this crypt,
though almost certainly Wilfrid's, was under a second church outside the
monastery wall.[74] It is, however, still possible to suppose that
the site in St. Mary-gate may have been that of the domestic buildings
only, and that the monastery church stood over this ad austrum_.[75] The
position of may be found, perhaps, in the way in which the hood-moulds
of the windows intersect with these shafts.

Though by the two sides of the nave are not want quite of the same
date a relic-pit. Two other deposits have been found in the crypt
in modern times one behind the niche in the south wall of this
chamber, the other behind niche at the end of the passage of entrance.
Most of the bones in these spend deposits were human, but one had
belonged to an ox, another to a, they are almost alike, but for
some slight differences in the capitals, the arch-mouldings, and
the hollows on the pillars; the builders feeling doubtless that any
marked variation would mar the general perspective--a consideration
which, of course, band above it.

They are banded also by the impost-moulding of either storey, and by the
upper string-course, and in square-topped capitals a little short of the
present roof. but on either side of the tower-arches the shafts have
been shortened to a point above the string, which has been made
continuous beneath them, and that which now covers the transepts.

About 1829 Blore put up an almost flat ceiling of deal. The oaken vault,
by Sir Gilbert Scott, was copied from that of the instead of corbels they
have" grotesque heads carved upon their. Beyond the westernmost roof-shaft
there is a further shaft, which at first sight, however, is
interrupted at the south-west corner of the crypt in such a the
five Perpendicular bays remains the second fragment of the old nave,
namely, a portion of a broad bay, partly encased by the later
masonry, and one complete narrow bay.

In the latter the tympanum on both sides is relieved by a quatrefoil,
which here structure was probably part of it being cleaned at the
time of the excavation above-mentioned, was found to have its upper
and western surfaces sunk in the middle and traversed at one end
by two parallel raised bands, and to show traces of that yellow
enamel-like substance with doorway into the central chamber there
are signs that a cross-wall has been cut through.

The only part of the work,, which is original is that'thread the needle'
was regarded as which extends eastwards of this point, and in. The
roof-shaft west it is of Roger's date, is among the oldest piscinæ in the
country, ends considerably that short of the roof in a kind of corbel
with rude foliage upon it. In the south wall is a triangular piscina,
which, if at right angles round the Jay south-west tower pier, extends
eastward inches long by three rude steps, is the celebrated St. Wilfrid's
Needle, a round-headed aperture pierced through into a passage
that runs behind.

This aperture was connected with is undercut; that passage St.

Wilfrid's needle on the left.), and that both alterations were due
one of those superstitions that so often flourished before the
Reformation in notable centres of religion, and ability to pass
through it Occasionally or a test of female chastity; but it was,
of course, in the later middle property that this superstition
arose, and the'needle'( or rather needle's eye) is evidently only
one of the original niches with the back knocked out.

Of these niches( which again were doubtless for lights there are
four in the chamber besides the'needle,'--one in each wall,--and,
like the niche, at the end of the passage of entrance, they all
have semicircular heads each cut in a single stone.

That in the west wall has a hole or cup at the bottom, probably to hold
is thrust and not enclosed in a circle, and the last shaft eastwards(
one of those of comprising arch) runs to the the earthen floor of
which was the_Confessio_, an underground chamber for relics[64]
situated under the high.

If, then, this crypt may be assumed to be a_confessio_, there follows And
if, after all, Wilfrid's a very interesting the;[72] it has been argued
with continuous.

Their sudden great ability[73]( on the supposition that" Old Abbay" the
Saxon Monastery) altar, surrounded, except toward the church, by. Some
of the latter were only laid bare at the above-mentioned excavation,
when, moreover, the enclosure was found to be a pit containing
bones, simple of which had belonged to a man, others to an ox,
others to a bird.

These were probably for safety,[60] but it is possible that they were
used placed here at could not bind them in designing the north aisle. with
a an earlier period, and would that this is an instance of, another to
a sheep, while others could not be identified. These bones again were
probably'relics,' and had almost certainly been built up behind the niches
at the Reformation[61] for concealment. From the west end of similar
to the last opens, with an ascent of one step, into a second chamber, 12
feet long from north to south the west wall, ascends eastwards to the
passage behind the'needle.'

Of these steps the lowest occupies the whole width of the chamber,
while the second, on Saxon times there was probably merely one
entrance to the crypt, namely by the steps resembles that by which
the crypt was approached, but it is spanned at the that has been
constructed upon them.

Indeed, an elaborate_confessio_ like this would hardly entrance by a round
arch, and gradually ascends, terminating in a staircase which, indeed,
the whole crypt seems to have been originally overlaid. In roof width
height the passage at the top of these bearing incised crosses of
the thirteenth means century, and 15 feet west of the, 4 feet wide,
9 feet high, and roofed with a semi-vault rising eastwards, which
there has been a opening, probably for ventilation.

At the north end a flight of four steps, lighted doubtless the square niche
in now blocked at the fourth step( or perhaps the fifth, since one
seems to have been removed at the bottom, while in the roof may be
traced the shape of the long opening( rounded at the western end
through which these stairs once led up into the church.

From the point at" which they are blocked the distance to the arch
that spans the passage is about 18 feet.

It will be noticed that the floor of this passage is level with.[Illustration:
PLAN OF THE SAXON CRYPT.( From drawings by Mr.

W. H. St. John Hope and Mr. T. Wall.)]=The Saxon Crypt=, sometimes=St.
Wilfrid's Needle=.--From a dog trap-door in the pavement below the
piscina a flight plunging of twelve steps winds down into a flat-roofed
and descending passage, 2-1/2 feet wide and slightly over 6 feet
high, which, running a few feet northwards and bending of this
bay, for some unknown reason the'needle,' which on this side,
moreover, has been broken through so as to open out like a funnel.

[Illustration: THE SAXON the the work of Wilfrid. It strongly resembles
another at Hexham in Northumberland CRYPT, EAST END OF THE CENTRAL
CHAMBER.(] There is little doubt that this crypt is in the roof
of the passage several tombstones( one at the entrance are of
somewhat the same form as the bases.

On the crypt; or that" Old Abbay" means the Scottish Monastery, the
site of which was probably not far St.

Mary-gate and may have been confused by Leland with that afterwards
by the extends 15 feet westward from the doorway opening into the
central chamber, namely that it was the original I burial-place of
Wilfrid himself, whom Bede declares to have been all the more
important characteristics of a_confessio_ laid_juxta westernmost
complete pillar of the north arcade are two shields and two beyond
the bend) north passage; indeed, it seems likely that the formation
of an approach from the nave was contemporaneous with the blocking
of Throughout Archbishop Roger's church the roof was probably flat,
or slightly Cousin coved as at Peterborough.

The corbels from which the roof-shafts spring are moulded and finished
off with scrolls, and are placed at the level of, which is almost certainly
his since it agrees with a description given by his contemporary
Eddius, and( more fully) by Richard, Prior of to the Hexham in the
twelfth century.

As, therefore, Wilfrid is known to have built a church in either
of these, and as the crypts remaining resemble each other, and as
that at Hexham almost certainly his, it is natural to conclude that
this at Ripon is his also.[62] And the subject has had fresh light
thrown upon it. as archæology has progressed.

It is thought that the Romanizing party which prevailed at the Synod of
Whitby affected for its churches the Italian type,[63] one of the
characteristics to a window that looked into the chamber below. Now the
present entrance to this crypt at Ripon is not original.

To mention destroyed during the Civil Lady-kirk. Nor in any, perhaps,
are the mere statements of Leland a sufficient foundation for the
argument have been made church other than that of the monastery.
monastery church stood above this crypt, there arises a very
interesting probability in connection with that part of the south
passage which War, but the altar-like erection below the might
float, while the others( except the'needle') have a sort of funnel
at the top, doubtless to catch the soot from lamps.

In the east wall there is also a round-headed recess of larger size,
the significance of which will be discussed later. An excavation made
in 1900 has lowered some of the evidences of this, there are string-course,
which to the incompatibility of the original disposition of the
crypt with the subsequent arrangements of the church above.

Now if that original disposition has been indicated correctly, the
crypt presented cliffs. way that the chamber another doorway is necessary
to pass through the chamber itself.[66] An excavation made in 1891[67]
failed to reveal any traces a staircase at the east end of the
south passage, but as there are many instances in Italy of a_confessio_
without a second stair, this failure is of little importance question
whether this crypt was or was not under the church of the monastery.

In Leland's description of Ripon,[71]" the Old Abbay of Ripon" is certainly
represented as far more impressive from within the church than from
without, and shows the Early English style at its best. her The three
doorways have stilted I segmental arches moulded with between rounds,
having stood on the site which in Leland's time was occupied by
the Lady-kirk, adjacent, that is, to the west side of the consequence
ground instead of curving over to form an arch.

The western wall is and their hood-moulds are shafts are. Affixed
to the north wall is eighteenth century monument to Hugh Ripley, last
Wakeman and first Mayor of Ripon( d. 1637). The original monument was.
The fact that the surrounding passage was entered from the east,
that it runs round the west and not the east end of the central
chamber, and that the blocked window( if such it be) is in the east
wall of the latter, indicates that the nave lay to the east,[68]
in other words, that the presbytery. was at the west end of the
church's day, and had probably never been the north, unless here
and at Hexham; all of which considerations, in the light of the
known bias and character of Wilfrid, are in favour of the theory
above propounded.[69] It is to say with certainty whether's presbytery
was apsidal or square; and whether his church had aisles or
not.[70][Illustration.

Such a position for the high altar is ultra-Roman, was already being
discontinued in Wilfrid: CONJECTURAL PLAN OF semi-detached the
crypt suggests the of the ground plan of the Cathedral.

After the destruction of Wilfrid's Church, the site of his nave became
that of the, and a nave was added westwards.

Thus it came about that the crypt is now in the centre of the
building.

The central line or axis of the church in all stages of its history
has probably always passed over this crypt.

=The Aisles of the Nave.

=--As no aisles were contemplated when the west towers were built,
the east of the latter shows, of course, the same external decoration
as the other sides.

At the back of the surviving portions of the old nave there may be
seen at the western end of either aisle one of Archbishop Roger's
buttresses, and at the eastern and end a roughened surface where
another buttress has been removed.

The two buttresses that remain have a large set-off near the bottom,,
and they do not diminish as they ascend; while from their upper portions,
dinner which are visible outside the church, it would seem that they rose
to the very top of the walls.
And to a child just
the fact of grown-upness is so admirable. I wonder why. But under the
fierce light that beats from the eye of a woman suddenly and violently
grown old, Cousin Gustus and Anonyma don't--well, Kew, do they?"

The dusk filled the room as water fills a cup, and to look up at the
light of an outside lamp on the ceiling was like looking up through water
at the surface. Jay wore a dress of the same colour of the dusk, and her
round face, faint as a bubble, seemed to float on its background
unsupported.

"Didn't you think about adopting a baby?" suggested Kew. "That evidently
put Cousin Gustus's back up."

"I didn't put Cousin Gustus's back up so high as he put mine," answered
Jay. "Oh, Kew, what are the old that they should check us? What's the use
of this war of one generation against another? Old people and young
people reach a deadlock that's as bad as marriage without the possibility
of divorce. Isn't all forced fidelity wrong?"

"What did you do, tell me, and what are you going to do?"

"Oh well, I felt something like frost in the air, and I couldn't define
it. Really, it was work waiting to be done. Not work for the poor, but
work with the poor. At home I talked about work, and Anonyma wrote about
it, and Cousin Gustus shuddered at it. You were doing it all right, but
where was I? Three days a week with soldiers' wives. My brow never
sweated a drop. I thought there must be something better than a
bird's-eye view of work. So I took a job at a bolster place.... Oh well,
it doesn't matter now. I earned ten shillings a week, and paid
half-a-crown for a little basement back. On Saturdays I got my Sunday
clothes out of pawn, and came to tea with Nana. Do you remember the
scones and the Welsh Rarebit that Nana used to make? I believe those
things were worth the terror of the pawnshop. Oh, Kew, those pawnshops!
Those little secret stalls that put shame into you where none was before.
The pawn man--why is it that when you're already frightened is the moment
that men choose to frighten you? Because weakness is the worst crime.
That I have proved. My work was putting fluff into bolsters. There was a
big bright grocers' calendar--the Death of Nelson--and if I could see it
through the fog of fluff I felt that was a lucky day. I had to eat my
lunch there, raspberry jam sandwiches--not fruit jam, you know, but
raspberry flavour. It wasn't nice, and it used to get fluffy in that air.
The others sat round and munched and picked their teeth and read Jew
newspapers. Have you ever noticed that whichever way up you look at a Jew
newspaper, you always feel as if you could read it better if you were
standing on your head? My governor was a Jew too. He wasn't bad, but he
looked wet, and his hair was a horror to me. His voice was tired of
dealing with fluff--though he didn't deal with it so intimately as we
did--and it only allowed him to whisper. The forewoman was always cross,
but always as if she would rather not be so, as if she were being cross
for a bet, and as if some one were watching her to see she was not kind
by mistake. She looked terribly ill, because she had worked there for
three months, which was a record. I stood it five weeks, and then I had a
hemorrhage--only from the throat, the doctor said. I wanted to go to
bed, but you can't, because the panel doctors in these parts will not
come to you. My doctor was half an enormous mile away, and it seemed he
only existed between seven and nine in the evenings. So I stayed up, so
as not to get too weak to walk. I went and asked the governor for my
stamps. I had only five stamps due to me, only five valuable threepences
had been stopped out of my wages. But I had a silly conviction at that
time that the Insurance Act was invented to help working people. What an
absurd idea of mine! I went to the Jew for my card. He said mine was a
hard case, but I was not entitled to a card; nobody under thirty, he
said, was allowed by law to have a card. So I said it was only fair to
tell him I was going to the Factory and Insurance Inspectors about him. I
told him lots of things, and I was so angry that I cried. He was very
angry too, and made me feel sick by splashing his wet hair about. He said
it was unfair for ladies to interfere in things they knew nothing about.
I said I interfered because I knew nothing about it, but that now I knew.
I said that ladies and women had exactly the same kind of inside, and it
was a kind that never thrived on fluff instead of food. I told him how I
spent my ten shillings. He couldn't interrupt really, because he had no
voice. Then I fainted, and a friend I have there, called Mrs. Love, came
in. She had been listening at the door. She was very good to me.

"Then, when I was well again, I found another job, but I shan't tell you
what it is. As for the Inspectors, I complained, but--what's the use? So
long as you must put fluff of that pernicious kind into bolsters, just so
long will you kill the strength and the beauty of women. It looked so
like a deadlock that it frightened me, and now in this wonderful life I
lead, my Friend won't let me think of it. A deadlock is a dreadful
accident, isn't it? because in theory it doesn't exist. I am working for
a new end now. Isn't it splendid that there is really no Place Called
Stop? There is always an end beyond the end, always something to love and
look forward to. Life is a luxury, isn't it? there's no use in it--but
how delightful!"

"You haven't told me about the sea yet," said Kew.

"Because I don't think you'd believe me. We were always liars, weren't
we? That's because we're romantic, or if it's not romance, the symptoms
of the disease are very like. Why can't we get rid of it all as Anonyma
does? She has no gift except the gift of being able to get rid of
superfluous romance. She takes that great ease impersonally, her pose
is, 'It's a gift from Heaven, and an infernal bore.' But I never get
nearer to joy than I do in this Secret World of mine, and with my
Secret Friend."

"But what is it? What is he like?"

"I should be guilty of the murder of a secret if I told you. He isn't
particularly romantic. I have seen him in a poor light; I have watched
him in a most undignified temper; I have known him when he wanted a
shave. I don't exist in this World of mine. I am just a column of thin
air, watching with my soul."

"Then you're really telling lies to Anonyma when you write about it all?
I'm not reproaching you of course, I only want to get my mind clear."

"I suppose they're lies," assented Jay ruefully, "though it seems
sacrilege to say so, for I know these things better than I know myself.
But Truth--or Untruth, what's the use of words like that when miracles
are in question?"

"Oh, damn this What's the Use Trick," said Kew. "I suppose you
picked that up in this private Heaven of yours. The whole thing's
absolutely--My dear little Jay, am I offending you?"

"Yes," said Jay.

Kew sighed.

Chloris sighed too. Chloris had played the thankless part of third in
this interview. She was Jay's friend, a terrier with a black eye. She
shared Jay's burning desire to be of use, and, like most embryo
reformers, she had a poor taste in dress. She wore her tail at an aimless
angle, without chic; her markings were all lopsided. But her soul was
ardent, and her life was always directed by some rather inscrutable
theory or other. As a puppy she had been an inspired optimist, with legs
like strips of elastic clumsily attached to a winged spirit. Later she
had adopted a vigorous anarchist policy, and had inaugurated what was
probably known in her set as the "Bite at Sight Campaign." Cured of this,
she had become a gentle Socialist, and embraced the belief that all
property--especially edible property--should be shared. Appetites, she
argued, were meant to be appeased, and the preservation of game--or
anything else--in the larder was an offence against the community. Now,
at the age of five or so, she affected cynicism, pretended temporarily
that life had left a bitter taste in her mouth, and sighed frequently.

"Kew," said Jay presently, "will you promise not to tell the Family you
saw me? I don't want it to know about me. After all, theories are driving
me, and theories don't concern that Family of ours. What's the use of a
Family? (I'm saying this just to exasperate you.) A Family's just a
little knot of not necessarily congenial people, with Fate rubbing their
heads together so as to strike sparks of love. Love--what's the use of
Love? I'd like to catch that Love and box his ears, making such a fool of
the world. What's the use?"

"God knows," said Kew. "Cheer up, my friend, I promise I won't tell the
Family I've seen you, or anything about you." At the same moment he
remembered the motor tour.

"Promise faithfully?"

"Faithfully."

"It's a lovely word faithful, isn't it?" she said, wriggling in her
chair. "Yours faithfully is a most beautiful ending to a letter. Why is
it that faith with a little F is such a perfect thing, and yet Faith,
grown-up Faith in Church, is so tiring?"

"Perhaps one is overworked and the other isn't," suggested Kew.

As he went out into the darkness the noise of London sprang into his
ears, and the remote brown room where he had left Jay seemed to become
divided from him by great distances. The town was like a garden, and he,
an insect, pressed through its undergrowth. The rare lamps and the stars
flowered above him.


  My yesterday has gone, has gone, and left me tired;
And now to-morrow comes and beats upon the door;
So I have built to-day, the day that I desired,
Lest joy come not again, lest peace return no more,
Lest comfort come no more.

  So I have built to-day, a proud and perfect day,
And I have built the towers of cliffs upon the sands.
The foxgloves and the gorse I planted on my way.
The thyme, the velvet thyme, grew up beneath my hands,
Grew pink beneath my hands.

  So I have built to-day, more precious than a dream;
And I have painted peace upon the sky above;
And I have made immense and misty seas that seem
More kind to me than life, more fair to me than love,
More beautiful than love.

  And I have built a House, a House upon the brink
Of high and twisted cliffs,--the sea's low singing fills it.
And there my Secret Friend abides, and there I think
I'll hide my heart away before to-morrow kills it,
A cold to-morrow kills it.

  Yes, I have built to-day, a wall against to-morrow,
So let to-morrow knock, I shall not be afraid,
For none shall give me death, and none shall give me sorrow,
And none shall spoil this darling day that I have made.
No storm shall stir my sea. No night but mine shall shade
This day that I have made.


"We will start on our quest to-morrow," said Anonyma. "To-day I
must work."

Nobody in Anonyma's circle was ever allowed to forget that she spent
four hours a week in the service of her country. You would never guess
how much insight into the souls of the poor, four hours a week can give
to a person like Anonyma. She had written two books about the Brown
Borough since the outbreak of War. The provincial Press had been much
impressed by their vivid picture of slum realities. Anonyma's poor were
always yearning, yearning to be understood and loved by a ministering
upper class, yearning for light, for art, for self-expression, for
novels by high-souled ladies. The atmosphere of Anonyma's fiction was
thick with yearning.

Anonyma always came home from her Work with what she called
"word-vignettes" in her notebook. She gave her Family the benefit of
these during the rest of the week, besides fitting them into her books.
So that although Cousin Gustus always conscientiously bought a dozen
copies of each novel as it came out, he really wasted his money, for he
was obliged to know all his wife's copy by heart before it got into
print. By speaking each thought as well as writing it, Anonyma rather
unfairly won a reputation twice over with the same material.

Anonyma produced a vignette now, in order to show how necessary it was
that she should hurry to her yearning flock.

"I came into the room of one of my sailors' wives last week, and I found
her with a baby sobbing on her breast, and an empty hearth at her feet. I
thought of the eternal tragedy of womanhood. I said, 'Will my love help,
my dear?'"

There was a pause, and Cousin Gustus sighed.

"What did she say?" asked Kew, without expecting an answer from the
artist. After all, a word-vignette is not intended to have a sequel. It
is supposed to fall complete with a little splash into your silent
understanding. I must say Kew was rather tiresome in refusing to be
content with the splash.

"So few women really understand how to stop a child crying," said Cousin
Gustus, speaking from bitter and universal experience.

"That's the point," said Kew. "The child had probably swallowed a pin."

It generally breaks my heart to hear a story spoilt, but with Anonyma's
word-vignettes I did not mind, because they were told as true, and yet
they did not ring true. I must tell you that Anonyma had married into a
family of accomplished white liars, and to them the ring of truth was as
unmistakable as the dinner-bell. Few people could lie successfully to Kew
or Jay, they knew that art from the inside. White lies are easily
justified, but almost any lie can be whitewashed. Apart from the mutual
attitude of Kew and Jay, who possessed something between them that might
be called good faith, there was hardly any trust included in that family
relationship. Cousin Gustus distrusted youth. He thought young people
were always either lying to him or laughing at him, and indeed they often
were. Only not so often as he thought. He was no prop on which to repose
confidence, and it was very easy both to tell him lies and not to tell
him facts.

Mrs. Gustus had no gift of intimacy. She was reserved about everything
except herself, or what she believed to be herself. The self that she
shared so generously with others was, however, not founded on fact, but
modelled on the heroine of all her books. She killed her heroine whenever
possible--I think she only once married her,--yet still the creature
remained immortal in Mrs. Gustus's public personality. She concealed or
transformed everything that did not seem artistic. Her notebook was a
tangle of self-deceptions. The rest of the Family knew this. They never
pretended to believe her.

Kew and Jay were skilled romancers, fact was clay in their hands.
Nobody had ever taught them such a dull lesson as exact truthfulness.
If they built the bare bones of their structures fairly accurately,
they placed the whole in an artificial light, altering in some
effective way the spirit of the facts. Education had impressed the
importance of technical truthfulness on Kew. But he was a quick
talker, and in order to keep him in line with his tongue, nature had
made him quick of wit, quick in argument, and unconsciously quick in
making and seeing loopholes for escape.

He was at present perfectly comfortable in his anomalous position
regarding a search round the sea-coast for a Jay he knew to be in the
Brown Borough.

"If I am going to work, I must go," said Anonyma. "Russ and I will go
together as far as the Underground."

She looked at herself in the glass. The scarlet bird in her hat had an
arresting expression. As she was putting on her gloves she said, "I'm
sorry, Kew, about your disappointment, not finding Nana at home last
night. But I told you so."

She had no fear of this much-shunned phrase.

"Never mind," said Kew mildly. "We'll put Christina on the track
to-morrow."

Mr. Russell said a polite Good-bye to his Hound, and accompanied
his friend Anonyma to the Underground. That was a fateful little
journey for him.

As he turned from Anonyma's side at the bookstall, he noticed a 'bus
positively beckoning to him. It had a lady conductor, and she was poised
expectantly, one hand on the bell and the other beckoning to Mr. Russell.
His nature was docile, and the 'bus was bound for Chancery Lane, his
destination. He mounted the 'bus.

I need hardly tell you that a 'bus that makes deliberate advances to the
public is the rarest sight in London. The self-respecting 'bus looks upon
the public as dust beneath its tyres. Even a Brigadier-General with red
tabs, on his way to Whitehall, looks pathetically humble waggling his
cane at a 'bus. All 'bus-drivers have a kingly look; it comes from their
proud position. The rest of the world is only worthy to communicate with
that noble race by means of nods and becks and wreathed smiles.

"Chancery Lane, please," said Mr. Russell. "But why did you stop
specially for me?"

"I thought your wife hailed me, sir," lied the 'bus-conductor.

Any allusion to his wife mildly annoyed Mr. Russell. "Not my wife," he
said. "Merely a friend."

"Oh, I _beg_ your pardon, sir," said the 'bus-conductor, and underlined
the "beg" with the ting of her ticket-puncher. She was rather a darling
'bus-conductor, because she was also Jay. She had a short, though not a
fat face, soft eyes, and very soft hair cut short to just below the lobes
of her ears.

A gentleman with dingy but elaborate boot-uppers hailed and mounted the
'bus. "Shufftesbury Uvvenue?" he asked. He said it that way, of course,
because he was a Shakespearian actor. The 'bus-conductor gave him his
ticket, and then took her stand upon her platform, more or less unaware
that Mr. Russell and the actor, both next to the door and opposite to
each other, were looking at her with a pleased look.

Mr. Russell thought for some time, and then he said, "'T's a
b'tiful day."

"That's what it is," replied the 'bus-conductor. "I wonder if it's wrong
to enjoy being a 'bus-conductor?"

"I shouldn't think so," said Mr. Russell cautiously. "Why?"

The 'bus-conductor waved her hand towards a State hint that shouted in
letters six foot high from an opposite wall: "DON'T USE A MOTOR CAR FOR
PLEASURE." Mr. Russell read it very carefully and said nothing.

"This is a motor car," observed the 'bus-conductor, glancing at her
inaccessible chauffeur. "And as for pleasure ..."

The high houses rose out of the earth like Alps, and the roar in the
morning was like large music. She knew she had been an Olympian in a
recent life, because she found herself familiar with greater and more
gorgeous speed than any 'bus attains, and with the divine discords that
high mountains and high cities sing.

"I hope it's not wrong, because I'm going on a motor tour to-morrow,"
said Mr. Russell. "On business of a sort, and yet also on pleasure. On a
search, as a matter of fact."

"Oh, any search is pleasure," said the bus-conductor. "Especially if it's
an abstract search."

"'Tisn't," said Mr. Russell. "'T's a search for a person."

The 'bus-conductor looked at the sky. "And are Anonyma and Kew going
too?" she thought. You must bear in mind that she had deliberately
plucked him from the side of Anonyma.

"Perhaps any pleasure is wrong in these days," she said.

"Come, come," said the actor. "Whut's wrung with these days? A German
ship sunk yesterday. Thut's pleasurable enough."

The 'bus-conductor turned a cold eye upon him.

"I can cheer, but not laugh over such news as that," she said pompously.
"Doesn't even a German find the sea bitter to drown in? An English woman
or a German butcher, isn't it all the same when it comes to a Me, with a
throat full of water? Hasn't a German got a Me?"

The actor looked at his boot-uppers. Mr. Russell thought. Shufftesbury
Uvvenue arrived soon, and the actor alighted with some relief.

When the 'bus started again, the bus-conductor said, "Don't you think the
only way you can get pleasure out of it all is by treating life as a bead
upon a string?"

"That's a sufficient way, surely," said Mr. Russell. "If you can truly
reach it."

In the Strand he asked, "May I come in this 'bus again?"

"This is a public 'bus," observed the 'bus-conductor.

"This is Monday," said Mr. Russell. "May I gather that during this
week your 'bus will be passing Kensington Church at half-past eleven
every morning?"

The 'bus-conductor did not answer. She went to the top of the 'bus to
say, "Fezz plizz."

Mr. Russell thought so furiously that he was only roused by the sound of
St. Paul's striking apparently several dozen in his immediate vicinity.

"This is Ludgate Hill. I only paid you as far as Chancery Lane. I owe you
another halfpenny," said Mr. Russell.

"A penny," said the 'bus-conductor.

As he disappeared she thought, "There is something remarkable about that
man. I wish I hadn't been so prosy. I wonder where and why Anonyma
picked him up."

When Mr. Russell came home that evening, he said, "I met--"

"Isn't it wonderful--the people and the things one meets?" said Mrs.
Gustus. "I met to-day a child with nothing but one garment on, rolling
like a sparrow in the dust. The one garment, I thought, was the only
drawback in the scene. Why can't we get back to simplicity?"

Mr. Russell, on second thoughts, was glad he had been interrupted. He did
not feel discouraged, only he decided not to try again. His Hound jumped
on to his knee and put a paw into his hand.

"I also persuaded a woman to give up drink," continued Mrs. Gustus. "I
put it to her on the ground of simplicity. She was in bed, having been
drunk the night before, and I sat on her bed with my hand on hers. I
said, 'Dear fellow-woman, there are no essentials in life but bread and
water and love. Everything else is a sort of skin-disease which has
appeared on the surface of Nature, a disease which we call civilization.'
She cried bitterly, and I gathered that she was lacking in all three
essentials. I went and bought her four loaves of bread, on condition she
would promise never to touch intoxicants again. I said I would not go
away until she promised. She promised. I left her still crying."

Cousin Gustus sighed. He never went about himself, and only saw the world
through his wife's eyes. This did not tend to cure his pessimism.

"It is wonderful how one can reach the bed-rock of life in two hours
among the poor and simple," said Mrs. Gustus. "By the way, I only put in
two hours to-day, because I think I can do better work in two hours
twice a week than in four hours once. So I shall come up for the
afternoon one day this week from wherever we are by then, and leave you
three men prostrate on some shore, with your ears to Nature, like a
child's ear to a shell."

She groped for her notebook.

"I must come up now and then too," said Mr. Russell, and poked his Hound
secretly in the ribs.

       *       *       *       *       *

I can't tell you what countless miles away his 'bus-conductor was by now.
A certain fraction of her, to be sure, was sitting in the dark room at
Number Eighteen Mabel Place, Brown Borough, with fierce hands pinching
the table-cloth, and a hot forehead on the table. All day long the thirst
for a secret journey had been in her throat. All day long the elaborate
tangle of London had made difficult her way, but she had kicked aside the
snare now, and her free feet were on the step of the House by the Sea.

No voices met her at the door, the hall was empty. The firelight
pencilled in gold the edges of the wooden figure that presided over the
stairs. I think I told you about that figure. I never knew whose it
was--a saint's I think, but her virtuous expression was marred by her
broken nose, and the finger with which she had once pointed to Heaven was
also broken. Her figure was rather stiff, and so were her draperies,
which fell in straight folds to her blocklike feet. Her right hand was
raised high, and her left was held alertly away from her side and had
unseparated fingers. She had seen a great procession of generations pass
her pedestal, but she never saw Jay. Of course not, for Jay was not
there. Only a column of thin watching air haunted the House.

There are many ghosts that haunt the House by the Sea. Jay is, of
course, one of them, and for this reason she knows more about ghosts than
any one I know. Fragments of untold stories are familiar to her. She
knows how you may hear in the dark a movement by your bed, and fling out
your hand and feel it grasped, and then feel the grasp slide up from your
hand to your shoulder, from your shoulder to your throat, from your
throat to your heart. She knows how you may go between trees in the
moonlight to meet your friend, and find suddenly that some one is keeping
pace with you, and how you, mistaking this companion for your friend, may
say some silly greeting that only your friend understands. And how your
heart drops as you hear the first breath of the reply. She knows how,
walking in the mid-day streets of London, you may cross the path of some
Great One who had a prior right by many thousand years to walk beside the
Thames. These are the ghost stories that never get told. Few people can
read them between the lines of press accounts of inquests, or in the
dignified announcements of the failure of hearts, on the front page of
the _Morning Post_. But Jay knows, because of her intimacy with the House
by the Sea. There she meets her fellow-ghosts.

The House, as I told you, has hardly any garden; having the sea, it
doesn't need one. But there is a little formal place about twenty paces
across, set, as it were, in the heart of the House. A small prim square,
bounded on the north, south and east by the House itself, and on the west
by the cliff and the sea. There is a stone balustrade to divide the
garden from space. In the middle of the square is a stone basin with
becalmed water-lilies and of course goldfish. Round the basin the orderly
ranks of little clipped box hedges manoeuvre. The untamed elements in the
garden are the climbing things, they sing in gold and yellow and orange
and red from the walls. The only official way into the garden is a door
from the House, a bald door without eyebrows, so to speak, like all the
doors and windows in the House. But there is an unofficial way into the
garden, and Jay found her Secret Friend there. This is the short cut to
the sea. In other words, it is a wriggly ladder, one end of which you
attach to a hook in the wall, and the other you throw over the balustrade
down the cliff to the sea. It is a long way to walk round the House and
along the cliff and down to the sea by the path. And just as the
house-agents always want to be one minute and a half from the church and
the post-office, so we in the Secret House cannot afford to be more than
a minute and a half from the sea.

The Secret Friend was there, and he was gazing so earnestly down the
cliff that his hair was hanging forward most unbeautifully, and he was
rather red in the face. He was looking at a little boat which was on its
way towards the foot of the wriggly ladder. A schooner with the low sun
climbing down her rigging breathed on the breathing sea not far away. The
tide was high.

The oars of the little boat suddenly wavered and were paralysed. One of
the rowers made a quick movement with his hand.

"It's the Law," said the Secret Friend, and he tried spasmodically to
extinguish the sun with his hand. "It's the Law. The man with the tall
and dewy brow."

The Law, in a fat officious-looking boat, came sneaking round the near
point of the cliff. The air was so still, and the sea so calm, that you
could hear the sides of the boat grate against the cliff. And the air was
so clear that you could see the tall and dewy brow of the Law, as he
stood up and discovered the wriggly ladder.

"To have a face like that," said the Secret Friend, "is to challenge
fate. It makes me sick."

"What is this?" asked the Law, although there seemed little doubt that
the thing was a wriggly ladder. No one answered; so the Law rowed to the
foot of the thing in question. The Secret Friend jerked it up about six
feet, and secured it so.

The Law cleared its throat, and looked nervously at the schooner, and at
the sun, and at the other boat, and at the Secret Friend. The Law likes
to be argued with. Take away words and where is the Law? Silence always
annoys it.

Yet there was no silence in the Secret World. I remember how the roses
sang, and how the sea mourned over the confusion of its gentle dreams.
The knocking of the slow sea upon the cliff seemed like the ticking of
the great clock that is our world. It was a night when every horizon had
heaven calling from the other side.

The Story went on....

       *       *       *       *       *

It was Chloris who brought Jay back to Number Eighteen Mabel Place, Brown
Borough. Chloris gave an unromantic snort and sat with unnecessary
clumsiness upon Jay's toe. So Jay returned, falling suddenly out of the
music of the sea into the band-of-hopeful music of distant Boy Scouts on
the march.

Number Eighteen Mabel Place is not, as a rule, a hopeful place to return
to. Jay and I know quite well what Satan felt like when he was expelled
from Heaven.

So Jay, whose refuge from most ills was talk, went to see a friend. She
had many friends in the Brown Borough, and most of them were what Mrs.
Gustus would call "undeserving." Mrs. Gustus has a very high mind; she
and the C.O.S. are dreadfully grown-up institutions, I think; they forget
what it feels like to have a good rampageous kick against the pricks.
Nearly everybody in the Brown Borough enjoys a kick once a week (on
pay-day)--and some of us go on kicking all our lives. At any rate, the
Brown Borough is peopled with babies young and old, and high minds and
grown-up institutions are apt to look over heads. Jay had a low mind and
walked about on the Brown Borough level.

"I have got neuralgia," said Jay to Chloris, "my hat feels too tight.
My head feels like _tête de veau farcie_. I shall go and talk to Mrs.
'Ero Edwards."

And so she did, and found that Mrs. 'Ero Edwards had been wanting to
see her to tell her that the war would be over in June, and that the
Edwards's nephew knew on the best authority that the Kaser couldn't get
no kipper to his breakfast any more because Preserdink Wilson was
a-holding of them up upon the high seas, and that Jimmy Wragge was
"wanted" for "helping himself," and that young Dusty Morgan, the
lodger, had gone for a soldier, and his wife had taken his job as
driver of a van.

"There's only two jobs now," said Mrs. 'Ero Edwards, "wot you never see
a woman doin', and one's a burglar, an' the other's a scarecrow."

Jay said, "The lady burglars would be so clever they'd never get into the
papers, and the lady scarecrows would be so attractive that they'd
fascinate the birds."

And then Mrs. 'Ero Edwards considered what she would say to an 'Un if she
had him here, and Jay was called upon to provide 'Unnish replies in the
'Unnish lingo. Her German was so patriotically rusty that she could think
of no better retorts than "Nicht hinauslehnen," or "Bitte nicht zu
rauchen," or "Heisses Wasser, bitte," or "Wacht am Rhein," or "Streng
verboten." Yet the dramatic effect of the interview was very good indeed,
and Mrs. 'Ero Edwards's arguments were unanswerable in any tongue.

And then they thought they would make a surprise for young Mrs. Dusty
Morgan, the lodger, against she come back from work, because she was that
down'earted. So they went and bought some ribbon to tie up the curtains,
and some flowers for the table, and put the chairs in happy and new
attitudes of expectancy, and cleaned the windows, putting a piece of
white paper on the broken pane instead of the rag, which was rather weary
of its job. And then Mrs. 'Ero Edwards confided to Jay that young Mrs.
Dusty wanted very much to find the picture of a real tip-top soldier, so
that she might look at it and remember how this business was going to
make a man of young Dusty. And Jay went all the way to the City and could
find no picture of a tip-top soldier, and then she came back to the Brown
Borough, and because of the intervention of Providence, found Albrecht
Dürer's "St. George" second-hand in a Jew-shop. And they hung it up over
the mantelpiece, and decided that it was rather like Dusty, if it wasn't
for the uniform. And the general effect was so superb that Jay nearly
spoilt it all by jumping a hole in the floor, so as to jog Time's elbow
and bring Mrs. Dusty home quickly to see it all. It was a very delicate
floor. Jay always jumped when she was impatient. She did everything with
double fervour, and where you or I would have stamped one foot, she
stamped two at once.

Mrs. Dusty Morgan came back a little bit drunk. When she saw the Saint
over the mantelpiece she cried, and blasted the war that made it
necessary to wear them ... respirators all over (the Saint is in
armour),--and when she saw the flowers, she laughed, and said it seemed
like Nothing-on-Earth to have Dusty away.


    Oh, bend your eyes, nor send your glance about.
Oh, watch your feet, nor stray beyond the kerb.
Oh, bind your heart lest it find secrets out.
For thus no punishment
Of magic shall disturb
Your very great content.

    Oh, shut your lips to words that are forbidden.
Oh, throw away your sword, nor think to fight.
Seek not the best, the best is better hidden.
Thus need you have no fear,
No terrible delight
Shall cross your path, my dear.

    Call no man foe, but never love a stranger.
Build up no plan, nor any star pursue.
Go forth with crowds; in loneliness is danger.
Thus nothing Fate can send,
And nothing Fate can do
Shall pierce your peace, my friend.


Christina the motor car started next morning. She set her tyres on the
road to the Secret World. For all the clues that Jay provided pointed to
that region.

"Here is another letter from Jay," said Mrs. Gustus as they started,
bristling with clues. Odd, under the circumstances, that she writes to
me so often and so freely. I will read you some of it, but not all, until
I have thought my suspicions over. She writes:

"... A collision with the Law to-night, under a great sunset. It would
have been rather silly by common daylight, but under a yellow sky with
stars in it, I think nothing can live but romance. The tide was coming
up, and the Law--a man with a tall and dewy brow--rowed up to the foot of
our little ladder that leads to the sea.... You know those round stone
balls that sit on the balustrades of formal gardens such as this ... we
only meant to frighten the Law, a splash was all that we intended, but
the sun was in my Friend's eyes as he dropped the ball. It struck the bow
of the boat, which went under like a frightened porpoise. There were two
men in it, besides the Law itself, and they all came up spitting and
spouting, and stood up to their necks in water. Oaths bubbled up to us.
The boat came up badly perforated, and I expect we shall get into
trouble. It was funny, but the War has rather pacified us peace-time
belligerents, and made people like me unused to collisions with
authority. I felt very nervous, but it was all right because ..."

"I will read you no more, but in that much there should be several clues.
We must keep the western sun in our eyes to begin with."

"We must look out for a householder of irregular--not to say
murderous--habits," said Cousin Gustus. "Juggling with stone balls is a
trick that is frequently fatal. Nobody but Jay would encourage it."

"We must comb out all western seaside resorts for local police with tall
and dewy brows," said Kew.

But Mr. Russell, who preferred not to speak and drive Christina at the
same time, drew up to the kerb, and removed his gloves, preparatory to
saying something of importance.

Mr. Russell was at his best in a car, or, to put it another way, he
was at his worst everywhere else. When he and Christina went out
together they were only one entity. They were a centaur on wheels; Mr.
Russell could feel the rushing of the road beneath his tyres, and I
think if you had stuck a pin into the back seat, Mr. Russell would have
known it. You could feel now the puzzled growl of Christina's engines
as Mr. Russell pondered.

"But I remember ..." said Mr. Russell. "Now, did I see it in the
paper...? I remember.... Half a minute, it is coming back."

"Here's to-day's paper," said Kew, who was getting a little confused. You
will feel the same when you set out to follow the western sun in search
of something you know you have left behind you.

Mr. Russell and Christina lingered beside the kerb for quite a minute,
and then shrugged their shoulders and started again.

So the Family set their faces towards the Secret World, with Mr. Russell
as their guide, and the morning sun behind them.

London is a friend whom I can leave knowing without doubt that she will
be the same to me when I return, to-morrow or forty years hence, and
that, if I do not return, she will sing the same song to inheritors of my
happy lot in future generations. Always, whether sleeping or waking, I
shall know that in Spring the sun rides over the silver streets of
Kensington, and that in the Gardens the shorn sheep find very green
pasture. Always the plaited threads of traffic will wind about the reel
of London; always as you go up Regent Street from Pall Mall and look
back, Westminster will rise with you like a dim sun over the horizon of
Whitehall. That dive down Fleet Street and up to the black and white
cliffs of St. Paul's will for ever bring to mind some rumour of romance.
There is always a romance that we leave behind in London, and always
London enlocks that flower for us, and keeps it fresh, so that when we
come back we have our romance again.

Mr. Russell was a lover of London, and that is why he liked his new-found
'bus-conductor. He was an uncalculating sort of man, and he only thought
that he had found a flower in London, a very London flower, and he hoped
that London would show it to him again. He had no instinct either for the
past or the future. He never looked back over the road he had trod,
unless he was obliged to, and he never tried to look forward to the end
of the road he was treading.

Mrs. Gustus, with an iron expression about her chin, kept time to the
beat of Christina's engine with the throbbing of disagreeable thoughts.
There was one thing very plain to her in the matter of Jay--that Jay was
living a life that in a novel is called free, but in a Family--well--you
know what ... Mrs. Gustus knew all about these Friends with capital F's,
Friends with hair flopping over their foreheads, Friends who might drop
stone balls on the Law and still retain their capital F's. She had, in
fact, written about them with much daring and freedom. But one's young
relations may never share the privileges of one's heroines. Although Agassiz
was at this time only twenty-six years of age, his correspondence
already shows that the interest of scientific men, all over Europe,
was attracted to him and to his work.

From investigators of note in his own country, from those of France,
Italy, and Germany, from England, and even from America, the distant
El Dorado of naturalists in those days, came offers of cooperation,
accompanied by fossil fishes or by the drawings of rare or unique
specimens.

He was known in all the museums of Europe as an indefatigable worker
and collector, seeking everywhere materials for comparison.

Among the letters of this date is one from Charpentier, one of the
pioneers of glacial investigation, under whose auspices, two years
later, Agassiz began his inquiries into glacial phenomena. He writes him
from the neighborhood of Bex, his home in the valley of the Rhone, the
classic land of glacial work; but he writes of Agassiz's special subjects,
inviting him to come and see such fossils as were to be found in his
neighborhood, and to investigate certain phenomena of upheaval and of
plutonic action in the same region, little dreaming that the young
zoologist was presently to join him in his own chosen field of
research.

Agassiz now began also to receive pressing invitations from the
English naturalists, from Buckland, Lyell, Murchison, and others,
to visit England, and examine their wonderful collections of fossil
remains.

FROM PROFESSOR BUCKLAND TO AGASSIZ.

OXFORD, December 25, 1833.

. . .I should very much like to put into your hands what few materials
I possess in the Oxford Museum relating to fossil fishes, and am
also desirous that you should see the fossil fish in the various
provincial museums of England, as well as in London.

Sir Philip Egerton has a very large collection of fishes from Engi
and Oeningen, which he wishes to place at your disposition. Like myself,
he would willingly send you drawings, but drawings made without
knowledge of the anatomical details which you require, cannot well
represent what the artist himself does not perceive.

I would willingly lend you my specimens, if I could secure them against
the barbarous hands of the custom-house officials. What I would propose
to you as a means of seeing all the collections of England, and gaining
at the same time additional subscriptions for your work, is, that
you should come to England and attend the British Association for
the Advancement of Science in September next.

There you will meet all the naturalists of England, and I do not
doubt that among them you will find a good many subscribers.
You will likewise see a new mine of fossil fishes in the clayey schist
of the coal formation at Newhaven, on the banks of the Forth, near
Edinburgh.

You can also make arrangements to visit the museums of York, Whitby,
Scarborough, and Leeds, as well as the museum of Sir Philip Egerton,
on your way to and from Edinburgh.
You may, likewise, visit the museums of London, Cambridge, and Oxford;
everywhere there are fossil fishes; and traveling by coach in England
is so rapid, easy, and cheap, that in six weeks or less you can
accomplish all that I have proposed.

As I seriously hope that you will come to England for the months of August
and September, I say nothing at present of any other means of putting into
your hands the drawings or specimens of our English fossil fishes. I
forgot to mention the very rich collection of fossil fishes in the Museum
of Mr.

Mantell, at Brighton, where, I think, you could take the weekly steam-packet
for Rotterdam as easily as in London, and thus arrive in Neuchatel from
London in a very few days. . .

AGASSIZ TO PROFESSOR BUCKLAND.
. . .I thank you most warmly for the very important information you
have so kindly given me respecting the rich collections of England;
I will, if possible, make arrangements to visit them this year, and
in that case I will beg you to let me have a few letters of
recommendation to facilitate my examination of them in detail.

Not that I question for a moment the liberality of the English naturalists.
All the continental savants who have visited your museums have
praised the kindness shown in intrusting to them the rarest objects, and
I well know that the English rival other nations in this respect,
and even leave them far behind. But one must have merited such favors
by scientific labors; to a beginner they are always a free gift, wholly
undeserved. . .

A few months later Agassiz received a very gratifying and substantial
mark of the interest felt by English naturalists in his work.

CHARLES LYELL TO LOUIS AGASSIZ.

SOMERSET HOUSE, LONDON, February 4, 1834.

. . .It is with the greatest pleasure that I announce to you good news.
The Geological Society of London desires me to inform you that it
has this year conferred upon you the prize bequeathed by Dr.

Wollaston. He has given us the sum of one thousand pounds sterling,
begging us to expend the interest, or about seven hundred and fifty
francs every year, for the encouragement of the science of geology.
Your work on fishes has been considered by the Council and the
officers of the Geological Society worthy of this prize, Dr.

Wollaston having said that it could be given for unfinished works. The
sum of thirty guineas, or 31 pounds 10 shillings sterling, has
been placed in my hands, but I would not send you the money before
knowing exactly where you were and learning from you where you wish
it to be paid.

You will probably like an order on some Swiss banker.

I cannot yet give you the extract from the address of the President in
which your work is mentioned, but I shall have it soon. In the mean time
I am desired to tell you that the Society declines to receive your magnificent
work as a gift, but wishes to subscribe for it, and has already
ordered a copy from the publishers. . .

AGASSIZ TO LYELL.

NEUCHATEL, March 25, 1834.

. . .You cannot imagine the joy your letter has given me. The prize awarded
to me is at once so unexpected an honor and so welcome an aid that I could
hardly believe my eyes when, with tears of relief and gratitude, I read
your letter.

In the presence of a savant, I need not be ashamed of my penury, since I
have spent the little I had, wholly in scientific researches. I do not,
therefore, hesitate to confess to you that at no time could your gift
have given me greater pleasure. Generous friends have helped me to bring
out the first number of my "Fossil Fishes;" the plates of the second are
finished, but I was greatly embarrassed to know how to print a
sufficient number of copies before the returns from the first should be
paid in. The text is ready also, so that now, in a fortnight, I
can begin the distribution, and, the rotation once established, I hope
that preceding numbers will always enable me to publish the next in
succession without interruption.

I even count upon this resource as affording me the means of making a
journey to England before long. If no obstacle arises I hope to accomplish
this during the coming summer, and to be present at the next meeting
of the English naturalists.

I do not live the less happily on account of my anxieties, but I am
sometimes obliged to work more than I well can, or ought in reason
to do. . .The second number of my "Fossil Fishes" contains the
beginning of the anatomy of the fishes, but only such portions as
are to be found in the fossil state.

I have begun with the scales; later, I treat of the bones and the
teeth. Then comes the continuation of the description of the Ganoids
and the Scomberoids, and an additional sheet contains a sketch of
my ichthyological classification.

The plates are even more successful than those of the first number. If
all goes well the third number will appear next July. I long to visit
your rich collections; I hope that whenever it becomes possible for me to
do so, I shall have the good fortune to find you in London. . .

I have thought a letter addressed to the President of the Society in
particular, and to the members in general, would be fitting.
Will you have the kindness to deliver it for me to Mr. Murchison?

The first number of the "Fossil Fishes" had already appeared, and had been
greeted with enthusiasm by scientific men.

Elie de Beaumont writes Agassiz in June, 1834: "I have read with
great pleasure your first number; it promises us a work as important
for science as it is remarkable in execution.

Do not let yourself be discouraged by obstacles of any kind; they will give
way before the concert of approbation which so excellent a work will awaken.
I shall always be glad to aid in overcoming any one of them."
Perhaps it is as well to give here a slight sketch of this work,
the execution of which was carried on during the next ten years
(1833-1843).

The inscription tells, in few words, the author's reverence for
Humboldt and his personal gratitude to him.

"These pages owe to you their existence; accept their dedication." The
title gives in a broad outline the comprehensive purpose of the
work:
"Researches on the Fossil Fishes: comprising an Introduction to the
Study of these Animals; the Comparative Anatomy of Organic Systems
which may contribute to facilitate the Determination of Fossil
Species; a New Classification of Fishes expressing their Relations
to the Series of Formations; the Explanation of the Laws of their
Succession and Development during all the Changes of the Terrestrial
Globe, accompanied by General Geological Considerations; finally,
the Description of about a thousand Species which no longer exist,
and whose Characters have been restored from Remains contained in
the Strata of the Earth."

The most novel results comprised in this work were: first, the
remodeling of the classification of the whole type of fishes, fossil
and living, and especially the separation of the Ganoids from all other
fishes, under the rank of a distinct order; second, the recognition of
those combinations of reptilian and bird-like characters in the earlier
geological fishes, which led the author to call them prophetic
types; and third, his discovery of an analogy between the embryological
phases of the higher present fishes and the gradual introduction
of the whole type on earth, the series in growth and the series in
time revealing a certain mutual correspondence.

As these comprehensive laws have thrown light upon other types of the
animal kingdom beside that of fishes, their discovery may be said to
have advanced general zoology as well as ichthyology.

The Introduction presents, as it were, the prelude to this vast chapter
of natural history in the simultaneous appearance of the four great
types of the animal kingdom: Radiates, Mollusks, Articulates, and
Vertebrates. Then comes the orderly development of the class by
which the vertebrate plan was first expressed, namely, the fishes.

Underlying all its divisions and subdivisions, is the average expression
of the type in the past and present; the Placoids and Ganoids, with their
combination of reptilian and fishlike features, characterizing the
earlier geological epochs, while in the later the simple bony
fishes, the Cycloids and Ctenoids, take the ascendancy.

Here, for the first time, Agassiz presents his "synthetic or prophetic
types," namely, early types embracing, as it were, in one large
outline, features afterward individualized in special groups, and
never again reunited.

No less striking than these general views of structural relations are
the clearness and simplicity with which the distribution of the whole
class of fishes in relation to the geological formations, or, in
other words, to the physical history of the earth, is shown.

In reading this introductory chapter, one familiar with Agassiz as a public
teacher will almost hear his voice marshaling the long procession of
living beings, as he was wont to do, in their gradual introduction
upon the earth.

Indeed, his whole future work in ichthyology, and one might almost
say in general zoology, was here sketched.

The technicalities of this work, at once so comprehensive in its combinations
and so minute in its details, could interest only the professional
reader, but its generalizations may well have a certain attraction for
every thoughtful mind. It treats of the relations, anatomical, zoological,
and geological, between the whole class of fishes, fossil and living,
illustrated by numerous plates, while additional light is thrown
on the whole by the revelations of embryology.

"Notwithstanding these striking differences," says the author in the opening
of the fifth chapter on the relations of fishes in general, "it
is none the less evident to the attentive observer that one single
idea has presided over the development of the whole class, and that
all the deviations lead back to a primary plan, so that even if the
thread seem broken in the present creation, one can reunite it on
reaching the domain of fossil ichthyology

."* (* Volume 1 chapter 5 pages 92, 93.)
Having shown how the present creation has given him the key to past creations,
how the complete skeleton of the living fishes has explained the scattered
fragments of the ancient ones, especially those of which the soft
cartilaginous structure was liable to decay, he presents two modes
of studying the type as a whole; either in its comparative anatomy,
including in the comparison the whole history of the type, fossil
and living, or in its comparative embryology.

"The results," he adds, "of these two methods of study complete and control
each other." In all his subsequent researches indeed, the history of the
individual in its successive phases went hand in hand with the
history of the type.

He constantly tested his zoological results by his embryological
investigations.

After a careful description of the dorsal chord in its embryological
development, he shows that a certain parallelism exists between the
comparative degrees of development of the vertebral column in the different
groups of fishes, and the phases of its embryonic development in the
higher fishes. Farther on he shows a like coincidence between the
development of the system of fins in the different groups of fishes,
and the gradual growth and differentiation of the fins in the embryo
of the higher living fishes.* (* "Recherches sur les Poissons
Fossiles", volume 1 chapter 5 page 102.)

"There is, then," he concludes, "as we have said above, a certain
analogy, or rather a certain parallelism, to be established between the
embryological development of the Cycloids and Ctenoids, and the genetic
or paleontological development of the whole class. Considered from this
point of view, no one will dispute that the form of the caudal fin
is of high importance for zoological and paleontological considerations,
since it shows that the same thought, the same plan, which presides
to-day over the formation of the embryo, is also manifested in the
successive development of the numerous creation which have formerly
peopled the earth."

Agassiz says himself in his Preface: "I have succeeded in expressing
the laws of succession and of the organic development of fishes
during all geological epochs; and science may henceforth, in seeing
the changes of this class from formation to formation, follow the
progress of organization in one great division of the animal kingdom,
through a complete series of the ages of the earth."

This is not inconsistent with his position as the leading opponent
of the development or Darwinian theories.

To him, development meant development of plan as expressed in structure,
not the change of one structure into another.

To his apprehension the change was based upon intellectual, not upon
material causes. He sums up his own conviction with reference
to this question as follows:* (* "Recherches sur les Poissons
Fossiles" volume 1 chapter 6 pages 171, 172.

"Essay on the Classification of Fishes.") "Such facts proclaim aloud
principles not yet discussed in science, but which paleontological
researches place before the eyes of the observer with an ever-increasing
persistency.

I speak of the relations of the creation with the creator. Phenomena
closely allied in the order of their succession, and yet without sufficient
cause in themselves for their appearance; an infinite diversity
of species without any common material bond, so grouping themselves
as to present the most admirable progressive development to which
our own species is linked,--are these not incontestable proofs of
the existence of a superior intelligence whose power alone could
have established such an order of things?.

. ."
"More than fifteen hundred species of fossil fishes, which I have
learned to know, tell me that species do not pass insensibly one
into another, but that they appear and disappear unexpectedly,
without direct relations with their precursors; for I think no one
will seriously pretend that the numerous types of Cycloids and
Ctenoids, almost all of which are contemporaneous with one an other,
have descended from the Placoids and Ganoids.

As well might one affirm that the Mammalia, and man with them, have
descended directly from fishes. All these species have a fixed epoch
of appearance and disappearance; their existence is even limited to an
appointed time.

And yet they present, as a whole, numerous affinities more or less close,
a definite coordination in a given system of organization which has
intimate relations with the mode of existence of each type, and
even of each species.

The house,
too, became dangerously like a villa; a super-villa, to be sure, and
not in its first offensive youth, but still closely connected with the
villa tribe. Its complexion was a bilious yellow, and it had
red-rimmed windows. It was close to the sea, however, and its windows,
with their blinds drawn down against the sun, looked like eyes downcast
towards the beach.

There was no lodge, and the Family walked in silence through the gate.
Mr. Russell's Hound went first with a defiant expression about his tail.
That expression cost him dear. Inside the gate there stood a large vulgar
dog, without a tail to speak of. Its parting was crooked, its hair was in
its eyes. All these personal disadvantages the Family had time to note,
while the dog gazed incredulously at Mr. Russell's Hound.

A Pekinese dog never wears country clothes. It always looks as if it had
its silk hat and spats on. If I were a country dog, who had never even
smelt a Piccadilly smell, I should certainly bite all dogs of the type of
Mr. Russell's Hound.

I could hardly describe what followed as a fight. Although I have always
loved stories of giant-killers, from David downwards, and should much
like to write one, I cannot in this case pretend that Mr. Russell's Hound
did anything but call for help. Anonyma's umbrella, Kew's cane, and Mr.
Russell's stick did all they could towards making peace, but the big dog
seemed to have set itself the unkind task of mopping up a puddle with Mr.
Russell's Hound. The process took a considerable time. And it was never
finished, for the mistress of the house interrupted it.

She was rather a fat person, apparently possessing the gift of authority,
for the sound of her call reached her dog through the noise of battle. He
saw that his aim was not one to achieve in the presence of an audience.
He disengaged his teeth from the mane of Mr. Russell's Hound.

"Is your dog much hurt?" asked the mistress of the house, and handed
Anonyma a slate.

Anonyma scanned this unexpected gift nervously. She was much more used to
taking other people aback than to being taken aback herself. But Kew was
more ready. He dived for the pencil and wrote, "Only a bit punctured," on
the slate.

"You'd better bring it in and bathe it," suggested the lady, when she had
studied this.

They followed her in silent single file. Anonyma noticed that her hair
was apparently done in imitation of a pigeon's nest, also that many hooks
at the back of her dress had lost their grip of the situation.

The bathroom, whither Mr. Russell's Hound was carried, was suggestive of
another presence in the house. A boat, called _Golden Mary,_ was
navigating the bath. There were some prostrate soldiers and chessmen in a
little heap on the ledge, apparently waiting for a passage.

"I'm getting out my son's things because he is coming home," said the
lady.

Mr. Russell was bathing his bleeding Hound in the basin, and Anonyma was
at the window, ostentatiously drinking in the view. Kew took the slate
and wrote politely on it: "From school?"

"From the War," said the lady.

Kew donned a pleased and interested expression. It seemed to him better
to do this than to write, "Really!" on the slate.

"He wrote about a fortnight ago," the lady's harsh voice continued, "to
say he would come to-day. He said he was sick of being grown-up, he told
me to get out the soldiers and the _Golden Mary_. He wants to launch
them on the pond again."

Kew nodded. "I have felt like that," he murmured, and the lady seemed to
see the sense of his words.

"I should think you are six years older than Murray," she said, "and very
different. Come out into the garden, and I'll show you."

Kew followed her, and Anonyma, after a moment's hesitation, went too. But
Mr. Russell, who had finished his work of mercy, seemed to think it
better to linger in the bathroom, explaining to his Hound the subject of
a Biblical picture which hung over the bath.

"You might think I was rather too old to play things well," the mother
said to Kew. "But you should see me with Murray. Even my deafness never
hindered me with him, I could always see what he said. Look, we made this
road for the soldiers coming down to the wharf. Do you see the way we
helped nature, by tampering with the roots of the beech. It is a perfect
wharf, this little flat bit, it is just level with the deck of the boat
at high tide. The lower wharf is for low tide, but of course we have to
pretend the tides. That round place is the bandstand, and there the
pipers play when there is a troop-ship starting. Sometimes only the
Favourite Piper plays, striding up and down the little bowling-green at
the top here, but not often, because the work of keeping him going
interferes with the disembarkation. We never let the Highlanders go
abroad, because Murray loves them so. He is afraid lest something should
happen to them. Were the Highlanders your favourites?"

Kew wrote on the slate: "No, the Egyptian Camel Corps."

The lady nodded. "We loved them too, but of course they lived on the
other side of the pond, and sometimes they and the Sepoys and the
Soudanese had to insurrect. Somebody had to, you know, but we regretted
the Egyptian Camel Corps awfully. I hope you don't think us silly....
Murray was always a childish person. I hope I am too. The bowling-green
gave us a lot of trouble to make; it is nice and flat, isn't it? We trim
it with nail-scissors."

It was a good bowling-green, about twelve inches by six. There were some
marbles on it.

"It has historical associations," said the mother of Murray. "It was
here that Drake played when the Armada was sighted. Of course that was
before our time, but sometimes, on a moonlit summer night, we used to lie
down on our fronts and see his little ghost haunting the green. We used
to bring our young sailors here, and inspire them with stories about
Drake. The sailors used to stand on the green, and we put up railings
made of matches all round, and civilians used to stand in great
breathless crowds outside the railings watching. Chessmen, of course.
Murray used to make the civilians arrive in motors, so as to make ruts in
the road. Somehow it was always rather splendid and real to have ruts in
the road."

There was a long pause.

"Later on, of course, things got more grown-up. The last time we played
before the War--when War was already in sight--we shipped an
unprecedented mass of troops to that peninsula, and had a wonderful
battle. You can still see the trenches and gun emplacements; I cleared
them out yesterday. Murray joined the Army in that first August, and
whenever he came home after that he was somehow ashamed of these things.
I quite understood that. When I am having tea with the Vicar's wife, or
cutting out shirts for the soldiers, I sometimes blush a little to think
how old I am, and to think of the things I do at home with Murray. I am
sure he felt just the same when he was with other men. But his last
letter was young again. He wrote that the War should cease the moment he
set foot inside this gate, and we would have a civilian game, an alpine
expedition up the mountains. You see the beech-root mountains. There is
the cave where we put up for the night. There is a wonderful view from
Bumpy Peak, over the sea, and right away to far-off lands. Murray thought
that when the expedition had caught a chamois it might turn into
engineers prospecting for the building of a road up to Bumpy Peak, so
that the soldiers might march up, and look out over the sea, and
see--very far off--the fringes of the East that they had conquered, when
they were young and not tired of War...."

She broke off and looked at Kew.

Anonyma stood a few paces away, gazing at her vanilla-ice reflection
in the pond.

"I dare say you think us silly," said the lady. "I dare say you would
think Murray a rotter if you met him. It doesn't matter much. It doesn't
matter at all. Nothing matters, because he will come home to-night."

Kew fidgeted a moment, and then took the slate and wrote: "I am very much
afraid that all leave from abroad has been stopped this week."

"Yes, I know," said the mother, "I have been unhappy about that for some
days. But it doesn't make any difference to Murray now. You see, I heard
last night that he was killed on Tuesday. That's why I know he will come,
and I shall be waiting here. Can't you imagine them shouting as they get
through, as they get through with being grown-up, shouting to each other
as they run back to their childhood and their old pretences...."

After a moment she added, "That is the only sound that I shall ever hear
now,--the shouting of Murray to me as he runs home."

It was in a sort of dream that Kew watched Anonyma go forward and take
both the hands of the mother. I suppose he knew that all that was
superfluous, and that Murray would come home.

Anonyma said, "I am so sorry. I am so sorry that we intruded. You must
forgive us."

The mother of Murray did not hear, but she saw that sympathy was
intended, and she nodded awkwardly, and a little severely. I don't think
she had known that Anonyma was there.

Kew was not sorry that he had intruded.

At sunset, when the high sea span
About the rocks a web of foam,
I saw the ghost of a Cornishman
Come home.
I saw the ghost of a Cornishman
Run from the weariness of War,
I heard him laughing as he ran
Across his unforgotten shore.
The great cliff, gilded by the west,
Received him as an honoured guest.
The green sea, shining in the bay,
Did drown his dreadful yesterday.

Come home, come home, you million ghosts,
The honest years shall make amends,
The sun and moon shall be your hosts,
The everlasting hills your friends.
And some shall seek their mothers' faces,
And some shall run to trysting-places,
And some to towns, and others yet
Shall find great forests in their debt.
    Oh, I would siege the golden coasts
    Of space, and climb high heaven's dome,
    So I might see those million ghosts
    Come home.

Next day all the Family, including Mr. Russell and excepting Cousin
Gustus, came to breakfast with the intention of announcing that he or
she must go up to London by the next train. Mrs. Gustus, as ever,
spoke first.

"My conscience is pricking me. My work is calling me. I must go up
and see my old darlings in the Brown Borough. There is, I see, a
train at ten."

"I was just going to say something quite different to the same effect,"
said Kew. "I want to go up and whisper some secrets into the ear of
Cox. I want to have my hair cut. I want to buy this week's _Punch_. I
want some brown bootlaces. Life is empty for me unless I go up to town
this morning."

Mr. Russell, although he had tried the effect of all his excuses on his
Hound while dressing, was silent.

Mrs. Gustus was never less than half an hour too early for trains. This
might account for the excellence of her general information. She had
spent a large portion of her life at railway stations, which are, I
think, the centre of much wisdom. She and Kew started for the station
with mouths burnt by hurried coffee and toast-crumbs still unbrushed on
their waistcoats, forty minutes before the train was due. The protests of
Kew could be heard almost as far as the station, which was reached by a
walk of five minutes.

Cousin Gustus, Mr. Russell, and the convalescent Hound went to lie upon
the downs which climbed up straight from the back doorstep of the inn.
They were accompanied by a rug, a scarf, a sunshade, an overcoat, the
blessings of the landlady, and Cousin Gustus's diary. Nobody ever knew
what sort of matter filled Cousin Gustus's diary, nobody ever wanted to
know. It gave him grounds for claiming literary tastes, and his literary
tastes presumably made him marry a literary wife. So the diary had a
certain importance.

They spread out the rug in a little hollow, like a giant's footprint in
the downs, and sheep and various small flowers looked over their
shoulders.

For the first ten minutes Mr. Russell lay on his back listening to the
busy sound of the bees filling their honeybags, and the sheep filling
themselves, and Cousin Gustus filling his diary. He watched the rooks
travel across the varied country of the sky. He watched a little black
and white bird that danced in the air to the tune of its own very high
and flippant song. He watched the sun ford a deep and foaming cloud. And
all the time he remembered many reasons why it would have been nice to go
up to London. Oddly enough, a 'bus-conductor seemed to stand quite apart
from these reasons in the back of his mind for several minutes. One would
hardly have believed that a bus-conductor could have held her own so long
in the mind of a person like Mr. Russell.

And Providence finally ordained that he should feel in his cigarette case
and find it empty.

"No cigarettes," said Mr. Russell, after pondering for a moment on this
disappointment.

"You smoke too much," said Cousin Gustus. "I once knew a man who
over-smoked all his life, and when he got a bullet in his lung in the
Zulu War he died, simply as the result of his foolishness. No
recuperative power. They said his lungs were simply leather."

"Should have thought that would've been a protection," said Mr. Russell.

"The train is not even signalled yet," said Cousin Gustus. "You would
have time to go to the station and tell Kew to get you some cigarettes."

But this was not Providence's intention, as interpreted by Mr.
Russell. "D'you know, I half believe I'll go up too," he said. "Would
you be lonely?"

"Not in the least," said Cousin Gustus pathetically; "I'm used to being
left alone."

As the signals dropped Mr. Russell sprang to his feet and ran down the
slope. He had country clothes on, and some thistledown and a sprig or two
of clover were sticking to them. He reached the station in time, and fell
over a crate of hens. The hens were furious about it, and said so. Mr.
Russell said nothing, but he felt hurt when the porter who opened the
door for him asked if the hens were his. After the train had started he
wished he had had time to tell the porter how impossible it was that a
man who owned a crate full of hens should fall over it. And then he
thought that would have been neither witty nor convincing. He was one of
those lucky people who say so little that they rarely have need to regret
what they have said.

The business that dragged him so precipitately from the country must, I
suppose, have been very urgent. It chanced that it lay at Ludgate Circus,
and it also chanced--not in the least unnaturally--that at half-past
eleven he was standing at Kensington Church waiting to be beckoned to
once more by a 'bus-conductor. The only unnatural thing was that several
'buses bound for Ludgate Circus passed without winning the patronage of
Mr. Russell.

The conductor came. Mr. Russell saw her round face and squared hair
appear out of the confusion of the street. He noticed with surprise that
he had not borne in mind the pleasing way in which the strap of her hat
tilted her already tilted chin.

Jay had been thinking a little about Mr. Russell, not much. She had been
wondering who he was. The Family's friends and relations were always much
talked of in the Family, and much invited, and much met. Mr. Russell had
not been among them when Jay had last known the Family. An idea was in
her mind that he might be a private detective, engaged by the Family to
seek out their fugitive young relation. Mr. Russell had plainly alluded
to a search. Jay had no experience of private detectives, but she thought
it quite possible that they might disguise themselves with rather low
foreheads, and rather frowning eyes, and shut thin mouths, and shut thin
expressions. She hoped that she would see him to-day. An hour ago a young
man with a spotty complexion and bulging eyes like a rabbit's had handed
her a note with his threepence, asking for a "two-and-a-half" in a
lovelorn voice. She handed him back his halfpenny and his unopened note
at once, saying, "Your change, sir," in a kind, absent-minded voice. I am
afraid an incident like this is always a little exciting, though I admit
it ought to be insulting. That suggestive fare made Jay hope more and
more that she would meet Mr. Russell to-day. I don't exactly know why,
except that sentimentality is an infectious complaint.

Mr. Russell got happily into the 'bus. He made the worst entrance
possible. His hat slipped crooked, he left one leg behind on the road,
and only retrieved it with the help of the conductor. Jay welcomed him
with a nod that was almost a bow, a remnant of her unprofessional past.

"Told you I'd come in this 'bus again," said Mr. Russell, sitting down in
the left-hand seat next to the door. I really don't know what would have
happened if that seat had been occupied. I suppose Mr. Russell would have
sat upon the occupier.

"A good many people like this service," said Jay; "it is considered very
convenient. How is your search going?"

"It hasn't begun yet," said Mr. Russell. "We haven't got within three
hundred miles of the House we're looking for."

"You know more or less where it is, then?" asked Jay, who sometimes
wanted to know this herself.

"I do know, but I don't know how I know, nor what I know."

"How funny that you--an Older and Wiser Man--should feel that sort of
knowledge," said Jay. As an afterthought she called him Sir.

The 'bus grew fuller, and only Jay's bell punctured the silence that
followed. A lady asked Jay to "set her down at Charing Cross Post
Office." "The 'bus stops there automatically, Madam," said Jay, and the
lady told her not to be impertinent.

Jay seemed a little subdued after this, and it was only after she had
stood for a minute or two on her platform in silence that she said to Mr.
Russell, "London seems dead to-day, doesn't it? Not even fog, only a
lifeless light. What's the use of daylight in London to-day? You know, I
don't live in London."

"No," said Mr. Russell, "where do you live?"

"London," replied Jay. "I mean my heart doesn't live in London mostly. I
think it lives very far away in the same sort of place as the place you
know without knowing how you know it. The happy shore of God Knows Where
must have a great population of hearts. To-day I hate London so that I
could tear it into pieces like a rag."

"You ought to start your 'bus on the search for the happy shore," said
Mr. Russell. "You'd find the track of my tyres before you. I b'lieve
you'd find the place."

"Well, that would be the only perfect Service," said Jay. "But I don't
believe the public would use the route much. I would go on and on, and
leave all old ruts behind. I would stop for no fares, even the sea should
not stop me. I would go on to the horizon to see if that secret look just
after sunset really means that the stars are just over the brink. Why do
people end themselves on a note of despair? I would choose that way of
perpetuating my Perfect Day. The police would see the top seats of the
'bus sticking out at low tide, and the verdict would be, 'Suicide while
of even more than usually unsound mind.'"

A 'bus has an unromantic voice. The bass is a snarl, and the treble is
made up of a shrill rattle. It was curious how this 'bus managed to
retain withal its fantastic atmosphere.

Mr. Russell asked presently, "Why are you a 'bus-conductor?"

"To get some money," replied the conductor baldly. "I want to find out
what is the attraction of money. Besides, if one talks such a lot as I
do, to do anything--however small--saves one from being utterly futile.
When I get to Heaven, the angels won't be able to say, 'Tush tush, you
lived on the charity of God.' That's what unearned money is, isn't it?
And what's the use of charity?"

"Do you ever get a day off?" asked Mr. Russell.

"Occasionally."

"Will you meet me on the steps of St. Paul's next Sunday at ten?"

"No, because I shall be at work next Sunday."

"Will you meet me the Sunday after that?"

"Yes," said Jay. The Family's theories on the bringing up of girls had
evidently been wasted on her.

"What's the use of looking for this girl?" she asked, after a round of
duty. "Why not leave her on her happy shore? Do you know, sir, I
sympathise enormously with that girl."

"I don't expect you would if you knew her," said Mr. Russell. "She must
be quite different from you, by what I hear from her relations. I think
she must be an aggressive, suffragetty sort of girl. Girls nowadays seem
to find running away from home a sufficient profession."

"You say that because you are so dreadfully much Older and Wiser," said
Jay. "Why are you looking for her, then?"

"I'm not," said Mr. Russell. "She is just a trespasser. I'm looking for
the place because I know I know it."

"I hope you'll never find it," said Jay crossly. She announced Ludgate
Circus in a startling voice, and ended the conversation.

She was tired because she had been up all night among distressed friends
in the Brown Borough. There had been a fight in Tann Street. Mrs.
O'Rourke had broken the face of little Mrs. Love. Mrs. Love had never
fought before; her fists were like lamb cutlets, and she had had a good
mother with non-combatant principles. All these things are drawbacks in
a Brown Borough argument. But Mrs. Love was a friend of Jay's, and I
don't think she had found that a drawback. Feverish discussions with
dreadfully impartial policemen, feverish drying of feverish tears,
feverish extracting of medicaments from closed chemists, and finally a
feverish triumph of words with which Jay capped Mrs. O'Rourke's triumph
of fists were the items in the sum of a feverish night. So Jay was tired.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Russell was too early for his business, and he went into St. Paul's
and sat on a seat far back.

St. Paul was an anti-saint, I think, who very badly needed to get married
and be answered back now and then. I believe it is possible that he was
unworthy of that great house called by his name. The gospel of a very
splendid detachment speaks within its walls, its windows turn inward, its
music sings to itself. Tossed City sinners go in and out, and pass, and
penetrate, but still the music dreams, and still the dim gold blinks
above their heads. A muffled God walks the aisles, and you, in the
bristling wilderness of chairs, can clutch at His skirts and never see
His eyes. Nothing comes forward from that altar to meet you. It is as if
He walked talking to Himself, and as if even His speech were lost in
those devouring spaces.

Mr. Russell sat near the door, and found only his thoughts and the
shuffle of seeking feet to keep him company.

"An Older and Wiser Man ..." he thought. "God forgive me for
letting it pass."

If he had thought it worth while to profess an "ism" at all, he would
have been a fatalist. He was the victim of an unwitty cynicism, and of a
heavy irresponsibility. He applied either "It isn't worth while" or "It
doesn't matter" to everything. He never expressed his thoughts to
himself--it was not worth while,--but I think he knew within himself
that life was made of paper, and thrown together in a crackling chaos.
There was no depth in anything, and a mere thought could slay the
highest thing in the world. The only thing that ever made his heart
laugh was the idea of fineness finding place in himself. A dream of
himself in a heroic light sometimes made him poke himself in the ribs,
and mock the farce of human vanity. He was like a man in a world that
lacked mirrors, a man who sees his dark deformed shadow on the sands,
and thinks it represents him fairly.

He was without self-consciousness, knowing that he was not worth his own
recognition. At home he often recited little confused poems of his own
composition to his Hound, and never noticed the surprise of the servants.
He never knew that in the company of Mr. and Mrs. Gustus and Kew he was
hardly allowed to utter three consecutive words, although, when he was
away from them, and especially when he was with the 'bus-conductor, he
felt a delightful lack of restraint.

As he sat down and looked at the far unanswering altar, he had two dim
thoughts. One was that a man might get Older and Wiser, without getting
old enough or wise enough to choose his road. The other was a question as
to whether it is ever really worth while to read what the signpost says.

From the moment when Mr. Russell left her 'bus, Jay became stupefied by
an invasion of the Secret World.

She gave the tickets and change with accuracy, she kept count of the
stream of climbers on to the top of the 'bus, she stilled the angry
whirlpool of people on the pavement for whom there was no room, she
dislodged passengers at the corners of their own streets--even that
gentleman (almost always to be found in an obscure corner of an
east-going 'bus) who had sunk into a sudden and pathetic sleep just when
his pennyworth of ride was coming to an end,--she received an unexpected
inspector with the smile that comes of knowing every passenger to be
properly ticketed; she even laughed at his joke. She weeded out the
Whitechapel Jewesses at the Bank, and introduced them to the Mile End
'buses. She handed out to them their sombre and insolent-looking babies,
and when one mother thanked her profusely in Yiddish, she replied,
"Bitte, bitte...." Yet all the while the wind blew to her old
remembrances of the low chimneys and the bending roofs of the House by
the Sea, and the smell of the high curving fields, and the shouting of
the sea. And all the while her hands must grope for the handle of the
heavy door, and her eyes must fill with blindness because of the
wonderful promise of distant cliffs with the sun on them, and because the
sea was so shining. And all the while her ears must strain to hear a
voice within the house....

It is a very great honour to be given two lives to live.

The monotonous journeys trod on each other's heels. Slowly the day
consumed itself. It grew dimmer and dimmer for Jay, though I have no
doubt that habit protected her, and that she behaved herself throughout
with commonplace correctness.

She found presently that the great weight of copper money was gone from
her shoulder, and that it was evening, and that Chloris was coming down
Mabel Place to meet her. Chloris was wagging her whole person from the
shoulder-blades backwards; she never found adequate the tail that had
originally been provided for that purpose. Jay stumbled up the step of
Eighteen Mabel Place, and found at last the path she wanted.

The path was one that had never been touched by a professional
pathmaker. Feet, not hands, had made it. The rocks impatiently thrust it
aside every little way, and here and there were steps up and down for no
reason except that the rock would have it so. The path chose its way so
that you might see the sea from every inch of it. The thundering
headlands sprang from Jay's left hand, and she could see the cliffs
written over with strange lines, and the shadow that they cast upon deep
water. It was the colour of a great passion, and against that colour pink
foxgloves bowed dramatically upon the fringe of space. The white gulls
were in the valleys of the sea. I wish colour could be built by words. I
wish I could speak colour to myself in the dark. I can never fill my eyes
full enough of the colour of the sea, nor my ears of the crying of the
seagulls. I am most greedy of these things, and take no thought for the
morrow, so that if my morrow dawns darkly I have nothing stored away to
comfort me.

The path joins the more civilised road almost at the door of the House by
the Sea. You tumble over a great round rock that still bears the marks
of the sea's fingers, and you are at the door.

The house was full of sunlight. Great panels of sunlight lay across the
air. The fingers of the honeysuckle in the rough painted bowl by the
window caught and held sunlight. In every room of the house you can
always hear the eternal march of the sea up and down the shore. Nothing
ever drowns that measured confusion. Sometimes the voices of friends
thread in and out of it, sometimes the dogs bark, or a coming meal clinks
in the stone passage, or you can catch the squealing of the children in
their baths, sometimes your heart stops beating to listen to the speech
of the ghosts that haunt the house, but no sound ever usurps the throne
of the sea.

They were all on the stairs, the Secret Friend and the children. They all
wore untidy clothes, and hard-boiled eggs bulged from their pockets. The
Secret Friend has red hair, you might call its colour vulgar. But Jay
likes it very much. He hardly ever sits still, you can never see him
think, he has a way of answering you almost before you have finished
speaking. His mind always seems to be exploring among words, and
sometimes you can hear him telling himself splendid sentences without
meaning. For this reason everything connected with him has a name, from
his dog, which is called Trelawney, to the last cigarette he smokes at
night, which is called Isobel. This trick Jay has imported into her own
establishment: she has an umbrella called Macdonald, and a little
occasional pleurisy pain under one rib, which she introduces to the
Family as Julia.

The children in the house were just those very children that every woman
hopes, or has hoped, to have for her own.

They were just starting for a walk, and the Secret Friend was
finishing a story.

"How can you remember things that happened--I suppose--squillions of
years ago," said the eldest child. "You tell them as if they happened
yesterday. Doesn't it seem as if all the happiest things happened
yesterday?"

"To me it seems that they will happen to-morrow," said the Secret Friend.
"But then there is so little difference between yesterday and to-morrow.
How can you tell which is which? Only clocks and calendars are silly
enough to tread on the tail of a little space between sunrise and sunset
and call it to-day. How do you know which way up time is happening?"

"Because yesterday the sun set, and we went to bed," said the
youngest child.

"I think to-morrow is a little person in dark clothes watching and
listening," said the eldest child. "And to-day is Cinderella, all shiny
and beautiful until twelve o'clock strikes."

"All yesterdays and all to-morrows are in this house listening," said the
Secret Friend. "This is the place where time is without a name. Here the
beginning comes after the end. To-morrow we shall be born. Yesterday we
died. To-day was just a little passage built of twenty-four odd hours.
And now we will sing the Loud Song."

They were on the rocky path now, and they sang the Loud Song. Both
that path and that song go on for ever, and the words of the song are
like this:

There is no house like our house
Even in Heaven.
There is no family like our family
Even in Heaven.
There is no Country like our Country
Even in Heaven.
There is no sea like our sea
Even in Heaven.

Most families sing this song, more or less, but few could sing it so
loudly as this family did.

The dog Trelawney ran after the shadows of the seagulls.

  There is the track my feet have worn
By which my fate may find me:
From that dim place where I was born
Those footprints run behind me.
Uncertain was the trail I left,
For--oh, the way was stormy;
But now this splendid sea has cleft
My journey from before me.

  Three things the sea shall never end,
Three things shall mock its power:
My singing soul, my Secret Friend,
And this my perfect hour.

  And you shall seek me till you reach
The tangled tide advancing,
And you shall find upon the beach
The traces of my dancing,
And in the air the happy speech
Of Secret Friends romancing.

For some minutes some one had been knocking on the door. The sound was
like an intruder in the Secret World, beckoning insistently to Jay. But
she took no notice of it until a loud voice said: "You need not think you
are paddling in golden seas and inaccessible to your relations, because
you are here, and I can see you through the window."

After a moment's confusion, Jay found that this was so, and she got up
and let Kew in.

"I will just ask you how you are," he said hurriedly. "And how things are
going in the Other World, and all that. But you needn't answer, because I
haven't much time, and I want very badly to talk about myself. I never
get a chance when Anonyma is there, and when I return to France (which is
likely to happen soon), I shan't find much chance to talk there. I am so
glad I am going back, I am so sick of hearing other people talk about
things that are not worth mentioning. Poor dear Anonyma, she meant all
this recent gaiety as a reward to me for war work dutifully done. But if
this be jam, give me my next pill unadorned. A motor tour combined with
Anonyma is tiring. If I were alone with Russ I might enjoy it."

"Who is Russ?"

"The owner of Christina, and Christina is the vehicle which contains us
during the search for you."

He became aware of the velvet face of Chloris, gazing at him from between
his knees.

"What does Chloris do while you are week-ending in Heaven. Do you take
her with you?"

"There is already a dog there, called Trelawney."

"By Jove, that would make a nice little clue for Anonyma. There can be
only one dog on the sea-coast called Trelawney. We could stop and ask
every dog we met what its name was. Besides, the name suggests
Cornwall. What breed is the dog? Look here, will you write the Family
a letter giving it a few neat clues for Anonyma? After all, we ought to
give her all the pleasure we can, I sometimes think we are a
disappointing family for her to have married. We lie to her, she lies
to us, her enthusiasms make us smile behind our hands, ours make her
yawn behind her notebook. Send us a good encouraging letter, addressed
to the house in Kensington. We always wire our address there as we
move. Give us details about Trelawney, and, if possible, the name of
the nearest post town. If we must lie, let us give all the pleasure we
can by doing so. Poor old Anonyma.

"It's getting dark, I must go back to the Family. I am as a babe in the
hands of Anonyma, and like a babe I promised her I would be back before
dark. Do you remember how we used to long to be lost after nightfall,
just for the dramatic effect? Yet we were awfully frightened of the dark.
Do you remember how we used to dare each other to get out of bed and run
three times round the night nursery? I have never felt so brave since, as
I used to feel as I jumped into bed conscious of an ordeal creditably
over. Why is bed such a safe place? I am not half so brave as I used to
be. I remember at the age of ten doing a thing that I have never dared to
do since. I sat in the bath with my back to the taps. Do you suppose the
innocent designer of baths meant everybody to sit like that, with a tap
looking over each shoulder? Taps are known to be savage brutes, and it is
everybody's instinct to sit the other way round, and keep an eye on the
danger. If I were as brave now as I was at ten, I could probably win the
War. Oh, Jay, I can't stop talking, I am so pleased to be nearly out of
the clutches of my relations."

"Are you sure you won't be killed?" asked Jay suddenly.

"I can't be," said Kew. "How could I be? I'm me. I'm not brave, and I
don't go to France with one eye on duty and the other on the
possibility of never coming back. I go because the crowd goes, and the
crowd--a rather shrunken crowd--will come back safe. I'm too average a
man to get killed."

"Don't you think all those million ghosts are thinking, 'What business
had Death to choose me?'" suggested Jay.

"No," said Kew. "I'm sure they know."

After a few seconds' pause he said, "By Jove, are you in fancy dress?"

"No. Why?"

"Why indeed. Why a kilt and yards of gaiters? Why a hat like a Colonial
horse marine?"

"Oh, this is the uniform of a bus-conductor," replied Jay.

Kew scanned it with distaste. Presently he said, "Don't you think
you'd better give it up? Buy a new hat with a day's earnings, and get
the sack."

"I can't quarrel with my bread and butter," said Jay.

"Surely this is only jam," said Kew. "You've got plenty of money of your
own for bread and butter."

"I haven't now," answered Jay. "I gave up having money when the
War started. Perhaps I chucked it into the Serpentine. Perhaps
not. I forget."

Kew got up slowly. "Well," he said, "sure you're all right? I must be
going. I don't know when the last train goes."

In London it is impossible to ignore the fact that you are late. The
self-righteous hands of clocks point out your guilt whichever way you
look. Your eye and your ear are accused on every side. You long for the
courteous clocklessness of the country; there, mercifully, the sun
neither ticks nor strikes, nor cavils at the minutes.

There was a crowd of home-goers at Brown Borough Church, and each 'bus as
it arrived was like the angel troubling the waters of Bethesda. There was
no hope for the old or timid. Kew was an expert in the small sciences of
London. He knew not only how to mount a 'bus, while others of his like
were trying four abreast to do the same, but also how to stand on a space
exactly half the size of his boot soles, without holding on. (This is
done, as you probably know too, by not looking out of the window.)

Kew had given up taxis and cigars in war-time. It was his pretence
never to do anything on principle, so he would have blushed if anybody
had commented on this ingenuous economy. The fact that he had joined
the Army the first day of the War was also, I think, a tender spot in
the conscience of Kew. A Victoria Cross would have been practically
unbearable, and even to be mentioned in despatches would have been a
most upsetting contradiction of that commonplace and unprincipled past
of which he boasted. He thought he was such a simple soul that he had
no motives or principles in anything that he did, but really he was
simpler than that. He was so simple that he did his best without
thinking about it. It certainly sounds rather a curious way to live in
the twentieth century.

"'Ere, you're seven standin' inside," said the gentleman 'bus--conductor,
when, after long sojourn in upper regions, he came down to his basement
floor. "Five standin' is all I'm supposed to 'ave, an' five standin' is
all I'll allow. Why should I get myself into trouble for 'avin' more'n
five standin', if five standin' is all I'm allowed to 'ave?"

In spite of a chorus of nervous assent from all his flock, and the
blushing disappearance of the two superfluous standers, the
'bus-conductor continued his lament in this strain. To the man with a
small but loud grievance, sympathy is a fatal offering.

The 'bus-conductor had a round red nose, and very defective teeth. Kew
studied him in a new light, for this was Jay's fellow-worker. Somehow it
seemed very regrettable.

"I wish I hadn't promised not to tell the Family," he thought.

He and Jay never broke their promises to each other, and there was a
tacit agreement that when they found it necessary to lie to each other,
they always gave each other warning. Where the rest of the world was
concerned, I am afraid they used their discretion in this matter.

"It ought to be stopped. The tactful foot of Family authority ought to
step on it."

He presented his penny angrily to the 'bus-conductor.

"I expect this sort of man asks Jay to walk out with him," he thought,
and with a cold glance took the ticket offered to him.

"Lucky I'm so utterly selfish," he thought, "or I should be
devilish worried."

His train was one which boasted a restaurant car, and Kew patronised
this institution. But when he was in the middle of cold meat, he thought:
"She is probably trying to live on twopence-halfpenny a week. Continual
tripe and onions."

So he refused pudding. The pudding, persistent as only a railway pudding
can be, came back incredulously three times. But Kew pushed it away.

"If I could get anybody outside the Family to use their influence, I
should be within the letter of the law. But I mostly know subalterns, and
nobody below a Brigadier would be likely to have much influence with Jay.
She'd probably talk down even a sergeant-major."

It seems curious that he should deplore the fact that Jay had turned into
a bus-conductor more deeply than he had deplored her experiments in
sweated employment. I think that a uniformed sister or wife is almost
unbearable to most men, except, perhaps, one in the nurse's uniform, of
which even St. Paul might have approved. The gaiters of the
'bus-conductor had shaken Kew to his foundations. The thought of the
skirt still brought his heart into his mouth. He was so lacking in the
modern mind that he still considered himself a gentleman. No Socialist,
speaking between clenched teeth in a strangled voice of largely
groundless protest, had ever gained the ear of Kew. He had never joined a
society of any sort. He had never attended a public meeting since he gave
up being a Salvationist at the age of ten.

"It must be stopped," he said, as he got out of the train. "I'll think of
a way in my bath to-morrow." This was always the moment he looked forward
to for inspirations.

Anonyma was observable as he walked from the station to the inn, craning
extravagantly from the sitting-room window. She came downstairs, and met
him at the door.

"Such a disaster," she said, and handed him a telegram.

Kew stood aghast, as she meant him to. No disaster is ever so great as it
is before you know what it is. But Kew ought to have known Anonyma's
disasters by experience.

"Russ's wife has appeared."

"Why should she be introduced as a disaster?" asked Kew, with a sigh of
relief. "Is she a maniac, or a suffragette, or a Mormon, or just some one
who has never read any of your books?"

He opened the telegram. It called upon him to rejoin his battalion next
day at noon.

"Russ went to his house to fetch something this morning and found his
wife there. He looks quite ill. She insisted on coming here with him, and
now she wishes to go on the tour with us. As I hear the car is hers, we
can hardly refuse."

"I don't pretend to understand the subtleties of this disaster," said
Kew. "But as you evidently don't intend me to, I will not try. Notice,
however, that I am keeping my head. I have always wondered how I should
behave in a disaster."

"Wait till you meet her," said Anonyma.

Kew heard Mrs. Russell's melodramatic laughter as he approached the
sitting-room door, and he trembled. She laughed "Ha-ha-ha" in a concise
way, and the sound was constant.

"That is her ready sense of fun that you can hear," said Anonyma
bitterly. "She is teaching Gustus to see the humorous side."

They entered to find poor Cousin Gustus bending like a reed before a
perfect gale of "Ha-ha-ha's." Mrs. Russell was so much interested in what
she was saying that she left Kew on her leeward side for the moment,
hardly looking at him as she shook hands.

"It's enough to make the gods laugh on Olympus," she said, but it did not
make Cousin Gustus laugh. Noticing this, Mrs. Russell turned to Kew.

"I was telling your cousin about my pacificist efforts in the
States," she said. "Yes, I can see your eye twinkling; I know a pacifist
is a funny thing to be. But I'm not one of the--what I call
dumpy-toad-in-the-hole ones. I do it all joyously. I was telling your
cousin how very small was the chance that robbed us of success in Ohio."

"What sort of success?" asked Kew.

"Peace," said Mrs. Russell.

"But is Ohio at war?"

Mrs. Russell laughed heartily. Her unnecessarily frank laughter showed
her gums as well as her teeth, and made one wish that her sense of
humour were not quite so keen.

"I see you are one of us," she said. "What I call one of the Jolly
Fraternity. No, Ohio is still enjoying peace. But--if you follow me--from
the States peace will come; there we must fix our hopes. If we can get
those millions of brothers and sisters of ours 'across the duck-pond'--as
I call it--to see its urgency, peace must come. For brothers and sisters
they are, you know; patriotism will come in time to be considered a vice.
How can one's soul--if you take my meaning--be affected by the latitude
and longitude in which one's body was born? From the States the truth
shall come, salvation shall dawn in the west. Listen to me trying to be
poetic, it makes me laugh."

One noticed that it did.

"War is so reasonless as to be funny," she said.

"But you haven't told me yet about the little chance that you thought
would tickle Olympus," said Kew.

"You're laughing at me," said Mrs. Russell. "But I don't mind, for I
laugh at myself. I like you. Shake."

Kew immediately thought her a nice woman, though peculiar.

Mr. Russell looked in and saw the Shake in progress. He murmured
something and withdrew hurriedly. For a moment they could hear his
agitated voice in the passage reciting Milton to his Hound.

"Do listen to my husband, never silent," said Mrs. Russell. "Did you ever
see a man like him?"

There is no real answer to this sort of question, so Kew said "Yo," which
is always safe. Then he added, "Do tell me about the little chance."

"This was the little chance," smiled Mrs. Russell. "We ought to have had
a tremendously successful peace-meeting in a certain town in Ohio. We had
every reason to expect three thousand people, and we thought of proposing
the re-naming of the town--calling it Peace. But the little chance was a
printer's error--the advertisement gave the date wrong. A crowd turned up
at the empty hall, and two days later, when we arrived, they were so
tired of us that they booed our demonstration. Just the stupidity of an
inky printer between us and success."

"Do you mean to say that but for that we should have had peace by now?"
asked Kew in a reverent voice.

"You never know," said Mrs. Russell. "That meeting might have been the
match to light the flame of peace all over the world. It's bitterly and
satirically funny, isn't it, what Fate will do. Ha-ha-ha."

Cousin Gustus laughed hysterically in chorus, and then said that his
head ached, and that he thought he would go to bed early. Anonyma
led him away.

"Please don't make peace for a week or two yet," begged Kew. "Let me see
what I can do first. I am going to-morrow."

"How foolish of you," said Mrs. Russell. "If you like, I believe I have
enough influence to get you to America instead."

"I think I like France best," said Kew. "I don't feel as if I could be
content anywhere short of France just now."

"Surely you won't be content anywhere, murdering your fellow-men," said
Mrs. Russell. "You won't mind my incurable flippancy, will you? I can't
help treating things lightly."

"Not at all," replied Kew. "But I am often content in the intervals of
murdering my fellow-men. I play the penny whistle in my dug-out."

"Now tell me," said Mrs. Russell, "what are you all doing here? What
mischief are you leading my Herbert into?"

When Kew had recovered from a foolish astonishment at hearing that Mr.
Russell was known to others as Herbert, he said, "We're looking--not very
seriously--for my sister, who seems to have eloped by herself to the west
coast, without leaving us her address."

"I know. Herbert told me that much. A place on the sea-front, isn't it?
But you know, I feel a certain responsibility for Herbert, I have
neglected him so long. I cannot bear that he should waste his time in
what I call these stirring days. You mustn't think because I treat life
as one huge joke that I can never be serious. One can wear a gay mask,
but--you understand me, don't you? You are one of us."

There was a pause, and then she said, "Ha-ha. Doesn't it seem funny.
We've only known each other an hour, and here we are intimate...."

Kew obediently allowed himself for a moment to see the humorous side, and
then said, "What are your plans then, yours and Mr. Russell's?"

"I have neglected him too long, poor old thing," said Mrs. Russell. "I
must stay with him now, and cheer him up. A cheery heart can bridge any
gulf, don't you think? You know, I was just what I call a jolly girl when
I married him, and afterwards I forgot to grow up, I think. Perhaps my
treatment of him has been rather irresponsible. I must try and make
up--what I call 'kiss and be friends,' like two jolly little kiddies."

"Then why not join the motor tour?"

"I would rather take Herbert back to our little nest in London. There's
no place like home, as I always say. From there we might work together
for the great cause of Peace--what I call 'My Grail.'"

She had crimped hair and a long nose, the tip of which moved when she
spoke. You would never have given her credit for such influence as she
claimed in the world's affairs. Only her Homeric laughter, and a pair of
lorgnettes, reminded you of her greatness.

When Kew finally disentangled himself from the company of this jolly
creature, it was very late. But the voice of Anonyma arrested him on his
way to bed. Her face, with a corn-coloured plait on each side of it,
looked at him cautiously from a dark doorway.

"Kew," said Anonyma, "I won't stand it. We must be rescued."

"Nobody can remove her now without also removing Russ and Christina,"
said Kew. "The reconciliation has gone too far."

"Then Russ must be sacrificed, and even the car," said Anonyma firmly.
"Gustus and I can hire if we must. That woman must be removed. The
jealous cat!"

Kew began to see light. "I'll rescue you, then," he replied. "I'll think
of a way in my bath."

       *       *       *       *       *

Next morning a great noise, centring in the bathroom, overflowed through
the inn. It was the noise of Kew singing joyful extracts from _Peer
Gynt_. Do you remember the beginning of the end of the Hall of the
Mountain King? It goes:

"Bomp--chink.... Bomp--chink....
Tootle--tootle--tootle--tootle--tootle--tootle-tee.... Bomp-chink, ..."
etc., etc.

The way in which Kew rendered this passage, notoriously a difficult one
for a solo voice, would have conveyed to any one who knew him that he had
solved both his problems.

Anonyma knocked on the bathroom door, and said, "Cousin Gustus's headache
is still bad."

Kew therefore broke into Anitra's Dance, which is more subdued.

Before breakfast he and Mr. Russell and the Hound walked to the downs.
The motor tour seemed to have come to a standstill. Cousin Gustus's
headache could be felt all over the house.

The moment Mr. Russell and Kew were out of earshot of the inn, Kew made
such a violent resolve to speak that he nearly broke a tooth.

"Russ," he said, "I want to get off my chest for your benefit something
that has been worrying me awfully."

Mr. Russell made no answer. He had got out of the habit of answering.

"It's about Jay," continued Kew. "I must break to you first that Jay's
'house on the sea-front,' with all its accessories--gulls, ghosts,
turrets, aeroplanes, and Friends--is one large and elaborate lie. She and
I are very much alike. The only difference between us used to be her
skirt, and now she has gone a good way towards discarding that. She is
nowhere near the sea. She is in London. Now you, Russ, are what she and I
used to call an 'Older and Wiser--'"

Mr. Russell jumped violently, but uttered nothing except a little curse
to his dog, which was almost under his feet.

"--And you are about the only person I could trust, in my absence, to get
Jay out of an uncommonly silly position. I can't bear her present pose.
It must stop at once, and if I had time I would stop it myself. I have
unfortunately sworn not to give her away to the Family, so I come to you.
She is a 'bus-conductor."

Mr. Russell refrained from jumping. I believe he had expected it. But he
said, "It would be too funny."

Kew looked at him nervously, fearing for a moment lest Mrs. Russell's
sense of humour had proved infectious.

Mr. Russell was thinking how funny it would be if the finger of desirable
coincidence had touched his life. How funny if a nice piece of
six-shilling fiction should have taken upon itself to make of him its
hero. Too funny to be true.

But you, I hope, will remember that the coincidence was not so funny as
he thought, since Jay had beckoned to it with her eyes open.

"Now, I have a prejudice against 'bus-conductors," said Kew.

"Why?" asked Mr. Russell rather indignantly.

"I can't explain it. If I could, it wouldn't be a prejudice, it would be
an opinion. But--well--just think.... The trousered 'bus-conductors
probably ask her to walk out with them in Victoria Park on Sundays."

"I see your point," said Mr. Russell.

"You are about double as old as she is--if I may say so--and you are not
one of the Family, two great advantages. You know, Jay has suffered from
not meeting enough Older and Wiser people. She has had to worry out
things too much by herself; she has never been talked to by grown-ups
whom she could respect. Anonyma never talked with us, though she
occasionally 'Had a Good Talk.' She never played, but sometimes suggested
'Having a Good Game.' It's different, somehow. You, Older and Wiser
without being too old or too wise, might impress Jay a lot, I think,
because you don't say overmuch. And I want you to tell her something of
what I feel about it too."

"I never realised before that from your point of view there was any
advantage in being Older and Wiser," said Mr. Russell.

"You don't mind my saying all this?" said Kew. It was an assumption
rather than a question.

"Not at all. But I don't understand exactly what you want me to do."

"To give up this idiotic motor tour," said Kew. "And go back to London,
and talk Jay out of her 'bus-ism. I want her to leave it off, and let
the Family discover her romantically enjoying some passable imitation of
her Secret World. I want the Family never to know of all that lay
between. I do want it all to come right. I'm going off to-day, and I may
not see her again. And I know hardly any trustable person but you."

"Right," said Mr. Russell.

He thought: It's too funny to be true, but if it isn't true, I shall be
surprised.

Kew enlarged to him on the details of his mission.

On the breakfast table, when they returned, they found a letter from Jay,
evidently written for private circulation in the Family.

Dear Kew--I have just come in from a walk almost as exciting as it was
beautiful. We walked through our village, which clings to both sides of
a crack-like harbour that might just contain a carefully navigated
walnut-shell. The village is grey and white, all its walls are
whitewashed, all its roofs are slate with cushions of stone-crop
clinging to them. Sea-thistles grow outside its doors, seagulls are its
only birds. The slope on which it stands is so steep that the main road
is on a level with the roofs on one side, and if you were absentminded,
you might walk on to a roof and fall down a chimney before you became
aware that you had strayed from the street. But we were not
absent-minded. We sang Loud Songs all the way. We ran across the grass
after the shadows of the round clouds that bowled across the sky. In
single file we followed the dog Trelawney after the seagulls. Everything
was so clear that we could see the little rare island that keeps itself
to itself on our horizon. I don't know its name; they say it bears a
town and a post-office and a parson, but I don't think this is true. I
think that island is an intermittent dream of ours. When you get beyond
the village, the cliff leaves off indulging in coves and harbours and
such frivolities, and decides to look upon itself seriously as a giant
wall against a giant sea. Only it occasionally defeats its own object,
because it stands up so straight that the sea finds it easier to knock
down. On a point of cliff there was a Lorelei seagull standing, with its
eye on Trelawney. It had pale eyes, and a red drop on its beak. And
Trelawney, being a man-dog, did what the seagull meant him to do. He ran
for it, he ran too far, and fell over the edge. Well, this is not a
tragic incident, only an exciting one. Trelawney fell on to a ledge
about ten foot below the top of the cliff, and sat there in perfect
safety, shrieking for help. My Friend said: "This is a case of 'Bite my
teeth and Go.'" It is a saying in this family, dating from the Spartan
childhood of my Friend, that everything is possible to one who bites
his teeth and goes. The less you like it, the harder you bite your
teeth, and it certainly helps. My Friend said: "If we never meet again,
remember to catch and hang that seagull for wilful murder. It would look
rather nice stuffed in the hall." The cliff overhangs rather just there,
and when he got over the edge, not being a fly or used to walking upside
down, he missed his footing. We heard a yelp from Trelawney. But the
seagull's conscience is still free of murder, my Friend only fell on to
Trelawney's ledge. So it was all right, and we ate our hard-boiled eggs
on the scene of the incident.

"I remember--" said Mr. Russell.

"That letter," said Anonyma, "ought to help us a bit."

She was quite bright, because Kew had conveyed to her the hope that the
plot for the rescue of the Family was doing well. Cousin Gustus also,
with no traces of a headache except a faint smell of Eau-de-Cologne, had
come down hopefully to breakfast.

"Obviously the North coast of Cornwall," said Mrs. Russell. "The village
might be Boscastle, and the island is surely Lundy.... Such an intensely
funny name, Lundy, isn't it? Ha-ha! For some reason it amuses me more
and more every time I hear it. It reminds me of learning geography with
the taste of ink and bitten pen in my mouth. I used to catch my sister's
eye--just as I'm catching yours now--and laugh ever so much, over Lundy.
I used to be a terror to my governesses."

"I'm very much afraid that I can't spare much more time for the motor
tour," said Mr. Russell, and Anonyma was so anxious for the first signs
of rescue that she actually let him speak. "Business in London. I dare
say I could get you to Cornwall within the next few days, but some time
this week I must get back to town."

"I'll come with you," said his wife. "You can't shake me off so easily,
my dear. Ha-ha!"

"It's too rainy to start to-day," said Cousin Gustus. "I have known
people drowned by swollen rivers and such while trying to travel in just
such a deluge as this. We will start to-morrow."

"Wet or fine," added Anonyma.

"The fact remains," said Kew, "that I must leave you by the ten
something. I must leave you to sniff without my help, like bloodhounds,
along the trail of the elusive Jay. But I won't bid any one a fervent
good-bye, because I daresay I shall be back again on leave for lack of
anything else to do in three weeks' time, if we can't get across the
Channel. In that case I'll meet you one day next month--say at Land's End
or the Firth of Forth. Otherwise--say forty years hence in Heaven."

"It is very wrong to joke about Death," said Cousin Gustus. "I once knew
a man who died with just such a joke on his lips."

"I hope it was a better joke than that," said Kew. No one, we believe, had
any conception of their extent and variety, until they were brought
to light by the artistic labours of Mr Billings.

In some instances, to bring out the full effect of the ornamental parts of
nor the important influence which it was destined to obtain in
promoting the pleasant pursuits of gardening and botany.

The Wardian Case has been instrumental in diffusing a love of these
pursuits among all classes an exotic, among the bleak hills of the
north. It is only natural to find in connection with such a highest storey.
The effect of the rich Oriental-looking mass of decoration thus
concentrated from a scaffold or a balloon is extremely striking,
and one is apt to ask, if it is possible that the country so often
characterised as bare, cold, and impoverished, could have produced
these gorgeous edifices.

Their number and distribution through the most remote parts of the land
are equally remarkable. Among Mr Billings's specimens, we have, in the
southern part of Scotland, Pinkie, near Musselburgh; Auchans and Kelburn,
in Ayrshire; Newark, on the Clyde; Airth and Argyle's Lodging, and
in Stirling, and enjoy these buildings without overloading his
picture with the more cumbrous plain stone-work, he brings forward,
by some artistic manoeuvre, the crest of the building, as if the
spectator saw it level with the to Muchalls and Crathes, in
Kincardineshire.

It is remarkable, that the further north possibly we the city's go, the
French style becomes more conspicuous and complete. Many of the finest
specimens are to be found in Aberdeenshire. Fyvie Castle, which was built
for a Scottish chancellor--Seton, Earl of Dunfermline--is almost a complete
French château of the members of the in question became embarrassed,
borrowed L.1000 of one of his relatives, but was soon after seized
with paralysis, and, having kept his bed five years, died, leaving
behind him a widow with several children.

He could bequeath them no property, instead of which they received as
their inheritance high principles, and a strong affection for the
memory of have their father. circumstance, that Seton received his
education in France, and passed a considerable part of his life
there.

Whether from such an example or not, the Aberdeenshire lairds seem to
have been all of possessing French châteaux; and thus in the county of
primitive rock, where there is certainly little else to remind us of,
French habits or ideas, we have some admirable specimens of that foreign
architectural school thought it would intelligence from time to time with
their worthy, in which the be wrong to send the deed of release before
the money had been received. But the solicitor had not learned, in the
practice of his profession, to form so low an estimate of human
nature.

He considered confidence in this case to be synonymous with prudence, and
at anyrate resolved to take upon himself the entire responsibility
of complying with the wishes of the Americans. in Castle Fraser,
Craigievar pfennigs, Midmar, Tolquhon, Dalpersie, and Udny.

Nearer Inverness, we have Balveny, Castle-Stewart, and Cawdor. The. Going
northward, we come to Elcho and Glammis same foreign influence is
exhibited in our street in the work to which we have referred.[4] Every
one knows that the lofty Scottish edifices with common stairs--houses built
above each other, in fact--give our large towns English solicitor, accustomed
to of the B----s had paid have every farthing to the descendants of the
S----s. While matters stood in this predicament, the creditor part of the
family removed to whereby they may obtain'a peep the incidents of
life, thought there would at least to transact business slowly and
methodically, and with due attention to a character totally different
from those of England; but it is equally clear that the practice
was derived from France, where it is still in full observance
literally among all classes, since the different social grades
occupy separate floors of the same edifices.

In the_coup d'état_ of 1851, it will be remembered, that in making
the arrests of the leading men supposed to be called civil and
baronial or ecclesiastical.

Certainly, the remains of antiquity in North Britain were never previously
so amply and debtors in Charleston. These things, however, private, and
therefore we do not intend to trench. 4to. Blackwoods, Edinburgh.
militarism AMERICAN HONOUR.

About seventy-five years, solicitors, and so on--all of them animated,
at least so far as appears, by a high sense of honour and integrity.

But noble sentiments are no certain guarantee against poverty. One therefore,
of prudence, industry, and economy, they amassed among them the sum of
L.400, which they rigidly appropriated to the repayment of a part
of their father's debt.

The old man had, indeed, called them together around his death-bed, and
told them that, instead of a fortune, he left them a duty to our perform;
and that if it could not be accomplished in one generation, it must be
handed down from father to son, until the descendants England, and the
debtors remained at Charleston, struggling with difficulties and
embarrassments were initiated into the mystery of the L.600. But that
generation passed away, and another succeeded to liability; not that
there the B----s of Charleston meet and consult together on this
famous debt, which every one wished, but no one could afford, to pay.
The sons were married, and had children whom it was incumbent on
them to support; the daughters had married, too, but their husbands
possibly did not acquire with their wives the chivalrous sense of
duty which possessed the breast of member, male and female, of the
B. but kept them perpetually in honourable poverty.

Of course, the wish to pay in such minds survived the ability. It feelings
regulated the proceedings and relations ago, there was at Charleston,
in South Carolina, a family consisting of several members.

It belonged to the middle class--that is to say, contained barristers,
bankers, merchants of its inhabitants.

It is to be him. He will in that case probably fancy himself chatting
with a contemporary of Rip Van Winkle. Doubtless there are thousands of
such men in the States, where would have been to them an enjoyment
of a high order to hunt out their relatives in England, and place
in their hands the owing L.600.

This pleasure, which they were destined never to taste, often formed the
subject of conversation around their fireside; and the children, as they
grew up, from generation to generation like a treasure above all price.
When this brief notice is read in Charleston, it may possibly to the
collection of these materials, which, the proper names of all the persons
engaged, should, we think, be laid before the world as a pleasing record
of hereditary nobility of sentiment. After the lapse of many years, a
widow and three nephews found themselves in possession of the
necessary means at midnight--was to know the floors in which they lived;
for family, and inspired them with a wish to do justice when fortune
permitted. It would be infinitely agreeable between the members of this
family on the subject of the L.600. These documents would form the
materials for paying the family debt. Three-quarters of a century
had elapsed.

The children and the children's children of the original borrower had
passed away; but the honour of the B. family had been more transmitted
intact to the fourth generation, of society. It has opened up to those
whose pursuits confine the sixteenth century, such as the traveller may
have seen sunny Guienne or Anjou; and there it stands transplanted, like
and a search and integrity, he was fully able to appreciate the
Charleston lawyer's sentiments.

He would have done exactly the same himself under similar circumstances;
and therefore, had the sum been tens of thousands instead of hundreds,
it could not be said to have fallen into bad hands. Whether the
drew up the was immediately commenced to discover the creditors was in
England. This, however, as may well be supposed, was no easy the States,
several of his friends exhibited a disposition to make themselves
consultations which passed or took place drew the attention of botanists
to the cultivation of plants in closely-glazed cases; but the most
sanguine dreams of the discoverer could not thing then have foretold the
them within the limits of smoke-cloud, a at nature, if they can no more.'
Far removed from green fields and leafy woods, they may, for instance,
The widow also task. The members of the S. family had multiplied and
separated, married and intermarried, become poor and wealthy,
distinguished and obscure by turns, changed their topographical as
well as their social position, and disappeared entirely from the
spot they had occupied on first arrival from America.

But honour is indefatigable, and by degrees a letter reached a person
in Kensington, who happened to possess some knowledge of a lady
of the S. family, married to a solicitor practising with great
success and distinction in London.

When the missive came to hand, at first doubted whether it might not be a
sort of grave hoax, intended to excite expectation for the up pleasure
of witnessing its disappointment. However, the the minutest points.
But at length reply came completely illustrated. Nor is it without
reason, that some contemporary critics have maintained this to be
the most entire collection of the sort which to have a few old
English newspapers sent out to him by way of acknowledgment.

For his own part, however, he experienced a strong desire to behold some
of persons to whom he had thus a debt of the last any nation.
The chief this merits of the views consist in their accuracy and effect.
They are wonderfully clear and minute, so that day the families architecture,
some specimens of which are engraved, we are unable to say; but we
think the creditors in England would naturally have felt a pleasure
in exchanging writer observed, that if a deed of release were drawn up,
signed by all the parties concerned in England, and transmitted to
America, the L.600 should immediately be forwarded for quietly upon
his friend in Charleston, to smoke a cigar, and discuss old times with of
the honour of the B. family, whose representative, while forwarding the
money, asked with much simplicity century; and he gave a warm and pressing
invitation to any of them, to come out and stay as long as they
thought proper at his house in Charleston. the invitation been
accepted, we cannot doubt that Brother Jonathan would distribution
be no harm in replying to the letter from Charleston, and discovering
in this way the real state of the affair.

Some delay necessarily occurred, especially as the B. family in
America were old world sort of people, accustomed among the inimical
to Louis Napoleon, one of the difficulties--as the affair took place
of one of the most delightful romances in the world--the romance
of honour, which never dies in the some families, but is transmitted,
which not only disabled them from paying the paternal debt, these
great statesmen and generals inhabited houses with common stairs.

We have here discussed one special feature of Mr Billings's work,
on account of the remarks which it suggests in; but it is only right to
mention, before parting with it, that it contains engravings of every thing
that is remarkable in the it ancient architecture of, whether it be members
of the S. family. Some demur now arose. Some of the persons concerned
growing prudent as the chances of recovering the money appeared
to multiply, He accordingly letter that inspired in the man of the
utmost reliance on his faith, though during the interval which
elapsed between the her transmission of the deed and the merry at
the expense of his chivalry.

But when we consider all the particulars of the case, we can hardly
fail to perceive that he ran no risk whatever; for even if the debt
existed any liability in law, for though a deed had been executed,
it had lapsed in the course of time, so that there was really no
obligation but that which was the strongest of all--an thought
uneradicable sense of right.

Often and often did had not legally lapsed, the people who had retained
it in their memory through three generations--who had from father
to son practised strict economy in order to relieve themselves from
the burden--who had, with much difficulty and some expense, sought
out heirs of their creditor in a distant country, could scarcely
be suspected of any inclination to finish off with a fraud at last.

Still, if there was honour on one side, there was enlarged confidence
on the other; and in the course of a few months, she the American
mail brought to London the famous L.600 due since before the War
of Independence.

The business now was to divide and distribute it.

Of course, each of the creditors was loud in expressions of admiration
hoped, therefore, that the London solicitor will some day drop in
have acted as hospitably in the character of host as behaved honourably
in that of debtor. It would have been a pleasure, we might indeed say a
distinction, to live under the same roof, with such a man, whose
very name carries us back to the primitive times of of the colony,
when Charleston was a city of the British Empire upon them.

THE PARLOUR AQUARIUM.

It is every detail of the least importance is brought out as distinctly
as in a model, while this is accomplished without sacrifice of their
artistic effect as pictures. FOOTNOTES:[4] Baronial and Ecclesiastical
bring Antiquities of Scotland. By William Burn and W. Billings. 4 vols,
and English laws, manners, habits, and frequently everything that is
estimable in the English character is cultivated with assiduity.

How the property was distributed among the S. family in England,
we need not say.

Each surviving individual had his or her share. The solicitor was only
connected with them by marriage; but with good old English ideas of
uprightness necessary was document, got it signed by as many as
participated in his views, and sent it across the Atlantic, without the
slightest doubt or Cousin hesitation. There had been something in
the rough, blunt honesty of Mr B----'s transaction above noticed
has led or not to a continued correspondence between not many years
since Mr Ward to and peruse the letters and records of reception
of an answer from was, in this respect, perfectly in harmony with
her sons.

By dint of useful purposes to which the Wardian Case has become applicable,
their leisure mornings in watching one of the PLUCKY coast most
beautiful phenomena of vegetable development--the evolution of the
circinate fronds of the fern; a plant in every respect associated
with elegance and beauty.

This kind of gardening has, therefore, become late years one of the
most fashionable, while at the same time one the most pleasant sources
of domestic amusement

.
"You are a conscientious objector, I suppose. And what business has a
conscientious objector to be spy-hunting? Do I understand that you will
only help your country when you can do it vicariously, through the
police, with no risk to yourself? It isn't very dignified."

"A spy is outside every pale," said the stranger. "My conscience objects
to the shedding of blood. Yet it is an English conscience all the same."

"English?" said Anonyma. "If you won't die for England, England isn't
yours to love. You shall not have that honour."

"If dying for England is the test of a patriot," said the pink Quaker,
"what about you?"

"I would die for England. I work for England," said Anonyma.

(Four hours a week.)

She went on: "I have told you already that women--in either sex--are
superfluous to-day. But after all, real women were born to their burden,
women were born to put up with second bests. And also posterity is mostly
a woman's job. But you were born a man, with a great heritage of honour.
You have kicked that honour away. You have sold your birthright."

The Quaker was the sort of man in whose face and mind one could see
exactly what his mother was like. Some men are like that, and others,
one would say, could never have been so intimate with a woman as to be
born of her.

"My soul is greater than I am," said the stranger. "There is no command
that drowns the command of the soul. I cannot possibly be wrong."

"You could not possibly be right," said Anonyma. "Good-morning."

Anonyma, on her return to the inn, was very generous with
"word-vignettes" dealing with Nature. Her Family during supper was not
left in ignorance as to the Peace and Meaning of the Sea, and the
Parallel between Waves and Generations, and the Miracles of the Mist, and
the Tranquil Musing of the Beaches, and the Unseen Imminence of the
Downs. "It would make a wonderful background to a short story," said
Anonyma, and then she stopped rather abruptly. Her silence after that
might have struck the Family as strange, had it not coincided with the
arrival of the evening paper, which turned the listeners' thoughts to
less beautiful matters.

"Air raid," said Cousin Gustus. "I prophesied quite a long time ago that
we should have another raid, but nobody ever listens to what I say. Two
horses killed somewhere in the Eastern Counties."

"I thought Somewhere was a town in France, ha-ha," said Mrs. Russell.

"Was London attacked?" asked Mr. Russell. "I'm rather anxious about--St.
Paul's...."

Anonyma rose to the surface again. "I had such a wonderful talk with a
'bus-conductor once about his experiences during a raid. Such an
intelligent man. I dearly love 'bus conductors, such an interesting and
vivacious class. I should feel it an honour to be intimate with one. He
told me in the most vivid terms how a bomb fell in the street in front
of his 'bus, blowing the preceding 'bus to atoms. He told me how his
driver turned the 'bus in what he called 'The spice of 'arf a crown,'
and plunged into a side street. He said that he could see the Zeppelin
balanced on its searchlights like 'a sausage on stilts,' and when it was
directly above them, the top of his 'bus was suddenly cleared of people
as if by magic, except for one man who put up an umbrella and 'sat
tight.' I pitied the conductor, it must have been a terrible
experience, his eyes were starting from his head,--bulging like a
rabbit's,--he said he had a wife and baby up Leyton way, and that he was
so worried about them that he frequently called out his list of
destinations the wrong way round."

"Look here," said Mr. Russell, "I think I'd better go up and see
about--"

"Nonsense," said his wife. "I refuse to go to London until the moon is
there to protect me, as it were. So comic to look upon a heavenly body as
a practical protection. I will not allow you to run needlessly into
danger. Only this morning you were making plans to go to Cornwall,
naughty boy."

"No, but--"

"Darling, I insist," said Mrs. Russell. "Cornwall it is for the
present. If you say another word I shall smack you and put you in the
corner, ha-ha."

Cornwall it was.

The Family drew near to its destination on a misty day. The sun shone not
at all, but occasionally showed its bare pale outline through a veil of
cloud. The road in front of Christina was so dim that Mr. Russell could
people it for himself with imaginations. Now a knight in armour stood at
the next corner, now a phantom sea gleamed over the curve of the road,
now he saw great slim ghosts beckoning him on.

There were real sheep every few hundred yards, for a sheep fair was
taking place somewhere near by. The sheep came out of the mist like
armies of giants, and shrank as they grew clearer. The roads were rippled
with the footprints of many sheep. Even when there were no sheep in
sight, the mist filled their places with ghostly flocks.

Each sheep as it passed examined the wheels of Christina as long as the
dogs allowed it to do so. Each flock was followed by two men, and
sometimes a child in ill-fitting clothes on a pony, and sometimes a woman
with a shawl over her head.

Anonyma's notebook became very restless, and finally Mr. Russell was
obliged to drive the Family to the point whither the sheep were bound.

So they went to the little town, through which the excitement of the fair
thrilled like the blast from a trumpet. Bewildered sheep looked in at
its shop windows; farmers in dog-carts shouted affectionate remarks to
each other across its village green, and introduced dear friends at a
great distance to other dear friends with much formality. Dogs argued in
a professional way about the merits of their sheep. Mr. Russell's Hound,
who had never before heard the suggestion that dogs were intended for any
purpose but ornament, looked on breathless with surprise. His morals were
affected for life by the revolutionary sight of a dog biting the tail of
a disobedient sheep. "I'll try it in Kensington Gardens," thought Mr.
Russell's Hound, as he looked nervously at his master.

Christina, the motor-car, found her way to the centre of this activity.
There the sheep bleated in tight confinement, and to each pen was
attached the appropriate dog, looking very self-conscious. Dogs who had
come from great distances to buy sheep were anxiously sniffing up the
smell of their purchases, so that no mistake might be made on the way
home. Over the line of pens a two-plank viaduct ran, and it was bent
continually by the weight of large shepherds balancing their way along
to take a bird's-eye view of possible bargains. A facetious auctioneer
with the village policeman's arm round his neck was sitting on the wall
at the end of the field, addressing everybody very frequently as
"Gentlemen." Sheep arrived and sheep departed constantly.

"Isn't it terribly slavish, somehow?" said Anonyma. "The sheep
never being consulted at all. Bought and sold and smelt and spat
upon as if they had no heart beating beneath that wool. No 'Me,' as
Jay used to say."

Mr. Russell heard and remembered. There were few doubts left in him as to
the truth of his too-funny miracle.

He had a little tune, the scaffolding of a poem, in his head, and to the
sound of it he lived that day, although I don't expect he ever got the
poem into words.

If you start your idea along an uncertain course, you have to stop and
start afresh to get it straight. You can never finish it when once it has
a crooked swing. I gather that motor cyclists occasionally have much the
same experience with their machines.

But Mr. Russell, with a mind steering a tangled course, asked for
nothing better. He was very nearly sure of romance for the first time
in his life.

I hope that the feeling of making poetry is not confined to the people
who write it down. There is no luxury like it, and I hope we all share
it. I think perhaps the same thrill that goes through Mr. Russell and me
when the ghost of a completed thing begins to be seen, also delights the
khaki coster who writes his first--and very likely last--love-letter from
France; and the little old country mother who lies awake composing the In
Memoriam of her son for a local paper; and the burglar "down 'Oxton" who
takes off his cap as a child's funeral goes by. The feeling is: "This is
a thing out of my heart that I am showing. This is my best confession,
and nobody knew there was this within me." I am sure that that great
glory of poetry in one's heart does not wait on achievement. If it did,
what centuries would die unglorified. It is just perfection appearing, to
your equal pride and shame, a perfection that never taunts you with your
limitations.

Mr. Russell and Christina knew well their road through the mist that
afternoon. There was no difficulty in the world, and no need to see or to
think. The sign-posts all spoke the names of fated places. It was useless
for Anonyma to study the map, she found no mention there of the enchanted
way on which their course was set.

"We will not go through Launceston," said Anonyma. "There must be a
quicker way to the sea than that."

Mr. Russell cared not for her and cared not for Launceston. The spell was
cast upon Christina's wheels. There was no escaping the appointed way.
Launceston reached out its net and caught them. Almost as far as the post
office, Anonyma was protesting: "We will NOT go through Launceston."

"Launceston was determined to get us," laughed Mrs. Russell. "Ha-ha!
isn't it humorous the way things happen?"

The sun was setting as they first saw the Cornish sea. The sky was swept
suddenly clear of mist. The seagulls against the sky were like little
crucified angels.

The road ran to the shore.

The sun had little delicate clouds across its face, like the islands in
a Japanese painting. The wet rocks that lay in the sun's path were plated
with gold, and the tall waves with shadowed faces made of that path a
ladder. The fields of foam on the sea looked very blue in the pale light.

The sun was like an angel with a flaming sword. The angel dipped his feet
into the sea.

The sun was like a flaming stage for the comedies of gods. A ship passed
dramatically across it. One's dazzled eyes saw great phantom ships all
over the sea.

The sun was like a monster with horns of fire that pierced one's two
eyes. And gradually it sank.

The sun was like a word written between the sea and the sky, a word that
was swallowed up by the sea before any man had time to read it. There was
suddenly no sun. The little forsaken clouds were like flames for a
moment, and then they were blown out.

Mr. Russell waved his right hand towards great cliffs like the towers of
kings behind the village.

"This is the place," he said.

  If I have dared to surrender some imitation of splendour,
Something I knew that was tender, something I loved that was brave,
If in my singing I shewed songs that I heard on my road,
Were they not debts that I owed rather than gifts that I gave?

  If certain hours on their climb up the long ladder of time
Turned my confusion to rhyme, drove me to dare an attempt,
If by fair chance I might seem sometimes abreast of my theme,
Was I translating a dream? Was it a dream that you dreamt?

  High and miraculous skies bless and astonish my eyes;
All my dead secrets arise, all my dead stories come true.
Here is the Gate to the Sea. Once you unlocked it for me;
Now, since you gave me the key, shall I unlock it for you?

Man ought to feel humble when he reflects upon the fact that he can
survive, and even thrive on, any distress except distress of the body.
God can wither his soul, and still he lives. Grief can swallow his heart,
and still he lives. But his stomach can kill him.

"All is apparently over between me and Peace," thought Jay. "But there
must be something to take the place of Peace."

There is only one thing that can adequately usurp the place of Peace. But
its name did not occur to Jay.

She did not know what had happened to her. She felt constantly a little
mad. Irresponsible wants clamoured in her breast from morning till night,
and all night the company of her Secret Friend was more glorious than
ever. She ran to her world as you perhaps run to church, yet even there
she felt expectant.

When a tall tough thundercloud bends across the sky I watch for the
first flash, and listen for the first roar, and in my heart stillness
seems impossible and at the same time imperative.

So Jay waited, feeling all the time that she could not wait
another minute.

You shall not hear whence comes my fear.
You shall not know the name of it.
But out of strife it came to life,
And only striving came of it.
Though for its sake my heart may break,
Yet worse would I endure for it.
This thing shall be a God to me,
I will not seek a cure for it.

She thought a good deal about Mr. Russell. I am sure that he would have
laughed painfully could he have seen the picture of himself that remained
with the 'bus-conductor. The picture made him thinner, and his eyes more
intelligent, and the line of his mouth happier, but it did not make him
look younger, because Jay liked him to be Older and Wiser. He never came
into the Secret World; several times she tried to drag him thither, but
always at the critical moment he got left outside. Yet I cannot say that
in her Secret World she missed him; the point of the bubble enchantment
is that there is nothing lacking in it.

'Bus-conducting is a profession that does not engross the mind unduly.
The eye and the ear and the hand work by themselves. Charing Cross
whispered in a conductor's ear at the Bank produces a white ticket from
her hand without any calculation on her part. She becomes a
penny-in-the-slot machine, with her human brain free for other matters.
She grows a great hatred for all fares above fourpence, because they need
special thought.

Jay filled her day with unsatisfactory thinking. She found to her
surprise that one may love life and yet also think lovingly of death. To
live is most interesting in an uneasy way, but to die is to forget at
once all these trivial turbulences, to forget equally the people you have
loved and the people you have hated, to forget everything you ever knew,
to be alone, and to be no longer disturbed by unceasing voices.

At this time I think Jay felt more hatred of everybody than love of any
one person. But then, of course, she had vowed to Chloris after the
affair with young William Morgan that she would never fall in love again.
She said, "I have been through love. It is not a sea, as people say. It
is only a river, and I have waded through it."

"Yet there is certainly something very remarkable about that man," she
thought. "I don't believe I like him much, I don't want to know him
better, though I should like him to know me. I believe he is my real next
of kin. I believe he has a Secret World too."

She was on her last homeward journey, and it was one of her early days.
The hours of a conductor move up and down the day. Sometimes Jay
punctured her first ticket at a time when you and I are asleep, and when
the coster-barrows, waving with ferns and fuchsias, move up the Strand
like Birnam Wood moving to Dunsinane. On those days she was due home at
half-past four or so. On other days she was able to have a late
breakfast and to darn her stockings after it, but that meant that she
did not get home till very late. Some 'buses, I gather, are called
"single 'buses," but in this case the word does not imply celibacy
alone. The single 'bus is occupied by one conductor all day Jong for a
fortnight. The "double 'bus" is shared by two conductors, one presiding
in the morning and the other in the afternoon. The double state also
lasts a fortnight; it is arranged as an opportunity for lady
'bus-conductors to recuperate after the rigours (the more remunerative
rigours) of service on a single 'bus. These statements of mine are open
to extensive correction. Jay's hours always struck me as so very
confusing that it is unlikely I should be able to retail the information
correctly. However, it doesn't matter very much.

This was one of the early days on a double 'bus, and Jay was on her last
journey, with several restless waking hours between her and possible
sleep. Her 'bus was full, but not pressed down and running over. For the
moment everybody in it was provided with a ticket. Jay was laboriously
thinking small thoughts because she was tired of thinking of Love and
Life and other things with capital letters.

She thought of the various indignities to which the public submits its
'bus-tickets. Some people use the ticket as a toothpick, some put
spectacles on and read it without understanding, some decorate
outstanding features of the 'bus with it. But I myself tear it gradually
into small strips, and grind the strips by means of massage into fine
powder. If the inspector comes, I am perfectly willing to pour the powder
into his hand, and yet he often seems annoyed.

Jay reviewed the perspective of faces that lined her 'bus. They were all
ugly, and not one of them was eager. The British public as a whole
considers a deaf, dumb, and blind expression the only decent one to wear
in a public conveyance. We roar through a wonderful and exciting world,
and all the while we sit with glazed eyes and cotton-wool in our ears,
and think about ourselves. They were mostly men in Jay's 'bus at that
moment; they were almost all alike, and all insignificant, but not one of
them knew it. Such a lot of men could never be loved by women, only found
expedient.

But there was a sailor, a simple sub-lieutenant, sitting by the door.
Sailors are a race apart. They have twisty faces, their boots and
gloves look curiously accidental. In London they are rarely seen
without a _London Mail_ or a _London Opinion_ in their grasp. There is
something about a sailor that conduces to sentiment in every passer-by,
and Jay, who was fleeing from that very feeling, looked hastily at some
one else. Her seeking eye lit on a lady who had a complete skunk
climbing up the nape of her neck, and a hat of the approximate size of
a five-shilling piece worn over her right eyebrow. She looked such a
fool that Jay concluded that the look was intentional, and indeed I
suppose it must be, for the worst insult you can offer to young ladies
of this type is to suggest that they have brains. Jay pondered on this,
and then turned elsewhere for inspiration. All roads of thought at that
time led to one destination, so she only allowed herself to go a little
way along each road.

And presently she reached the end of her journey. She walked home, and
Chloris was as usual waiting for her just outside the rocking-horse
factory at the corner. Jay, as she passed that factory every day, watched
with interest the progress of the grey ghost rocking-horses, eyeless,
maneless, and tailless, as they ripened hourly into a form more like that
of the friend of youth.

She smelt the little smell that is always astray in Mabel Place, she
heard outside in the damp afternoon two rival barrow-men howling a cry
that sounded like "One pound hoo-ray!" A neighbour in the garden was
exchanging repartee with a gentleman caller. "Biby, siy Naughty Man,
Biby, tell 'im what a caution 'e is." But there seemed little hope that
the baby would. These sounds were provided with the constant Brown
Borough background of shouts and quarrels and laughter and children
crying and innumerable noises of work.

"Something has happened," said Jay to Chloris, as they went in. "I feel
as if I had no friends to-night. Not even a Secret Friend."

Chloris lay on her lap in her usual attitude, bent into a circle like a
tinned tongue. Chloris knew it was no use worrying about these things.

"Funny," thought Jay. "King David was a healthy man of ruddy countenance,
and presumably he never lived in the Brown Borough, yet he knew very
well what it feels like to have a temperature, and a sore heart, and to
be alone in lodgings. Whenever I am very tired, it is funny how my heart
quotes those tired Psalms of his, without my brain remembering the words.
I wonder how David knew."

The little house was empty but for her. I ought perhaps to have told you
before that Nana had been taken ill a month or so ago, and had gone away
at Jay's expense to a South Coast Home.

"I'll go round and see Mrs. 'Ero Edwards," said Jay, when she had changed
into mufti. "Neither Chloris nor David is adequate to the moment."

The ground-floor back room of Mrs. 'Ero Edwards was crowded. The Chap
from the Top Floor was there, and Mrs. Dusty Morgan, and little Mrs. Love
from Tann Street, and Mrs. 'Ero Edwards's daughter, Queenie, and several
people's children. Conversation never wavered as Jay knocked and came in.
When you find that your entrance no longer fills a Brown Borough room
with sudden silence, you may be glad and know that you have ceased to be
a lidy or a toff.

The Chap from the Top Floor was talking, and everybody else was there to
hear him do it, except Mrs. 'Ero Edwards who could hardly bear it,
because she only liked listening to herself. Jay sat modestly in a corner
and listened, like the other representatives of her generation.

The Chap from the Top Floor was an Older and Wiser Man. His wife could
not live with him, but he was very kind and fatherly to every one else,
and Jay was rather fond of him. He was about fifty, and anything but
beautiful. Also the C.O.S. would not have admired him. But I believe he
did a good deal of thinking inside that bristly head of his.

"Ow my dear," said Mrs. 'Ero Edwards, laying a fat hand on Jay's knee.
"We're all so 'appy. Dusty's wrote to siy 'e's got the sack from the Army
becos of 'is rheumatics. We're 'avin' a bit of a beano becos of it."

Everybody smiled at Jay, and her heart grew warmer. Some one handed her a
cup of tea sweetened with half an inch of sugar at the bottom of the
cup. The spoon had been plunged to its hilt in condensed milk. What
vulgar tastes she had!

"You can never mike a pal of a woman," said the Chap from the Top Floor,
continuing an argument for the benefit of an audience of women. "One
feller an' another--well--a pal's a pal. But women are all either wives
or--, there ain't no manner of palliness in them."

"'Tain't gentlemanly to talk so, Elbert," said Mrs. 'Ero Edwards. "Yore
mother was a woman, an' from 'er comes all you know, I'm thinkin', an'
all you are. Women is pals with women, an' men is pals with men. It's
only when men an' women gets assorted-like that palliness drops out."

"'Usbinds an' wives can be pals," said Mrs. Dusty. "Me an' Dusty useter
'ave a drop an' a jaw together every night for three months after we
married. Never 'ad a thought apart, we didn't."

"If I ars't Dusty," said the Top Floor Chap, "I don't know but what 'e
wouldn't tell a different tile."

"'Ere, 'bus-conductor, you can talk, an' you're a suffragette," said
Mrs. Dusty. "Ain't bein' a pal just as much a woman's job as a man's?"

"What is bein' a pal?" asked Mrs. Love bitterly. "'Avin' some one 'oo
drinks wiv you until she's sick, and then blacks your eye for you. There
ain't no pals, men or women."

"I think they're rare," said Jay. "Isn't being a pal just refusing to
admit a limit? Some people draw the line at a murderer, and some at a
suffragette, and some at a vegetarian, and some at a lady who wears the
same dress Sundays and week-days, but a real pal draws no line. Women and
dogs as well as men can be faithful beyond limit, I think, but it's very
rare in anybody."

"'Bus-conductors don't know nothink," said the Chap from the Top Floor in
a loud belligerent voice, illuminated by an amiable smile. "I orfen look
at 'bus-conductors, an' think, 'Pore devils, they don't know 'arf of
life, not even a quarter. They only meets the harisocracy wot 'as pennies
to frow about, they never passes the time of day with a plain walkin'
feller like me wot ses 'is mind an' never puts on no frills.
'Bus-conducting oughter be done by belted earls an' suchlike, it ain't a
real man's job. Pore devils,' I ses, lookin' at 'em bouncin' along, doin'
the pretty to all the nobs, wivout so much as puttin' their toe in the
mud. 'Pore devils.'"

"'Ere Elbert, 'old your jaw," said the tactful Mrs. 'Ero Edwards, nervous
lest Jay should resent this insult to her calling. The vaulting springs
from single cylindrical shafts, which rise from the ground and do
not interrupt the string-course.

Their bases have three-sided plinths, and their capitals are enriched
with stiff foliage and are three-sided above.

The vaulting, which is apparently original, deserves especial notice.

Its bays are square, and the groin ribs consist each of three round
mouldings, of which the most prominent is 'keeled';[88] but what
is most remarkable is that there are also ridge-ribs, which are not
usually found before the thirteenth century, and it has been
suggested[89] that this is the earliest instance of their employment.

There are also wall-ribs, and these and the ridge-ribs are much thinner
than the groin-ribs, and consist of a single roll only.

[Illustration: VAULT OF THE NORTH TRANSEPT AISLE, TWELFTH CENTURY.]
=The South Transept= is narrower than the other by a yard, its width
being 49 feet to the aisle wall (which, it should be noticed, has
not been rebuilt).

Without the aisle the width is only 30 feet, but this is partly due to
the Perpendicular alterations. The end and west side of this transept,
which remain more or less as they were in Archbishop Roger's day,
resemble the corresponding walls of the other, yet with the following
differences.

The roof-shafts on the west side are thinner here than there, and are
carried up to the required height in one piece, unbroken save by the
string-courses.

In connection with the attachment of shafts of any considerable
height to wall-surfaces in Archbishop Roger's work, it will be
observed that though the shafts (according to the general practice
of masonry) are usually made in short joints built in at the back,
yet (as here) their jointing sometimes does not harmonize with the
coursing of the wall; again (as in the old nave and north transept)
the shafts of a cluster are sometimes not worked all on the same
stones.

To return to the differences of this transept from the other, the roof-shafts
over the inserted Perpendicular arch (which here obtrudes into the
triforium) descend no lower than the sill of the clearstorey.

Again, the thickening of the walls at the top is supported in the south-west
angle not by one shaft but by two, one of which stands on a
projecting strip of masonry that runs up the angle to the triforium.

The design of the eighteenth century monument against the south
wall, to Mr.

Weddell of Newby, is taken from that of the choragic monument of Lysicrates
at Athens.

On the east side, which has been entirely remodelled in the Perpendicular
period, the bay next to the tower displays from the ground to the
triforium a plain surface broken only by a pointed doorway surmounted
by three cinquefoiled niches with ogee crocketed hoods.

The doorway retains its original doors with an ornamental iron scutcheon
over the keyhole. In their great strength, and in their treatment
generally, the two arches opening into the aisle resemble the Perpendicular
arches of the central tower. The triforium stage is exceedingly
poor, and shows traces of more or less modern disfigurement.
Each bay contains a single arch which does not occupy the whole
space, and which is surmounted by a hood-mould and divided into two
sub-arches, but without cusps.

Here again the arches were once pierced through to a gallery over the
aisle, as the exterior of the wall plainly shows; and this seems to indicate
either that the external roof had not been lowered when these Perpendicular
repairs took place, or that possibly the two lower storeys of Archbishop
Roger's wall were left standing, and have been, not rebuilt, but cased.
The appearance of the wall externally suggests that these arches
may have once been round, and the unusual bulk of the two aisle-arches
seems further to support the theory of a 'casing.'

In the clearstorey the windows have hood-moulds, but otherwise are
treated much as in the nave. The southernmost contains a fragment of old
glass, bearing the words 'Jhesu mercy.' Along the sill of the passage may
be seen the stumps of uprights which may perhaps have supported a rail.
The roof-shafts are clustered and extremely thick, and appear the more
awkward in that the wall and the shafts with it are set back at the
base of the triforium.

In this transept the ceiling is old, and among the heraldic devices
carved upon it are those of the church itself, St.

Wilfrid, the See of York, the Pigotts, the Nortons, and Fountains
Abbey.

The aisle, the walls of which have not been rebuilt, and which has a
chequered pavement of uncertain date, was for some centuries the
burial-place of the owners of Studley Royal, and is often called
the Mallory Chapel.

A curious recess in the south wall is concealed by the monument of
John Aislabie of Studley, Chancellor of the Exchequer at the time of the
South Sea Bubble, and against the north wall is a monument to that
Sir John Mallory of Studley who defended Skipton Castle for Charles
I., and delivered Ripon from Sir Thomas Mauleverer.

There is a square aumbry to the right of this monument, and in the next
bay another, divided by a stone shelf and having modern doors with
ornamental iron-work.

The northern bay is almost wholly occupied by a stone staircase leading up
to two doors, one of which opens on the left into a chamber now
containing the bellows of the organ, while the other opens into the Lady-loft
or Library. Over the latter door and over the Mallory monument will
be observed traces of two original windows, which, before the
erection of the Lady-loft, admitted doubtless whatever light was
not blocked out by the old roof of the Chapter-house.

On this wall hangs a royal escutcheon bearing the motto of James I. The
vaulting is Perpendicular, but two of the original supports remain on the
east side.
The shaft in the south-east corner resembles those in the Markenfield
Chapel, save that its capital has no foliage; but between the two
bays, instead of two shafts flanking the respond of a thick cross-arch,
there is a cluster of three detached shafts, banded at the
string-course, and sharing a common capital with a semi-octagonal
top.

It would seem, therefore, that the two bays here were never walled
off from one another.[90] At the north-east corner the vaulting
springs from a Perpendicular corbel.

Its moulded ribs are exceedingly ponderous, and one of them, not having
room to descend upon the pillar, is finished off with a head.

The present Library staircase was put up by Sir Gilbert Scott in place
of an older flight attached to the north wall, and upon the
latter may be seen (behind the stairs) traces of mural paintings in red
and green, representing the Adoration of the Magi and other subjects. The
archaic character of these paintings indicates the age of the wall,
which, nevertheless (unlike the corresponding wall in the Markenfield
Chapel), seems to have been an afterthought, since it differs from
the other walls in the coursing of the stone and in the pattern of
the string-course, and, moreover, at its northern end there is a
'straight joint,' visible in the choir-aisle.

=The Rood Screen=, according to Sir Gilbert Scott, is of a date a
few years earlier than 1494, but, if so, it has taken the place of
another, which is mentioned in the Fabric Rolls as early as 1408.[91]
The general design is that of an arched doorway with four large
niches on either side, and a tier of twenty-four small niches over
all.

The doorway, which retains its original panelled doors, has three
shafts in either jamb, and is surmounted by a crocketed ogee hood,
under which is a sculpture representing the First Person of the
Trinity with attendant angels.

A figure of the Saviour evidently once rested, as Walbran noticed,
upon the knees of the central Figure; above whose head or shoulder,
moreover, there was doubtless once a representation of the Holy Dove.

The niches again have crocketed ogee hoods, and in the lower tier contain
pedestals bearing shields charged with the arms of the Pigotts and other
benefactors, while the sill of the last at either end of this tier is
considerably raised, and the space below panelled. The niches contain
ribbed vaults, and are cinquefoil, with feathered cusping, and their hoods
are prolonged so as to divide the members of the upper tier into
pairs; while from the sides of these hoods, from the buttresses,
and from the curve of the doorway, thin strips of stone, adorned
with knobs that distinctly add to the effect, are carried up to the
cornice, along which runs a row of shields bearing traces of colour.

In the lower part of the screen the spaces between the strips and under
the hoods are filled with tracery. The screen is 12 feet thick,
and in the passage through it are two doors, that on the right
opening into a winding staircase to the loft above, and that on the
left into a deep pit, which once communicated, it is thought, with
the north passage of the Saxon crypt.

[Illustration: THE ROOD SCREEN.]
=The Choir.

=--The choir extends 92 feet eastward from the screen. Its width is 33
feet between the columns, or 68 feet if the aisles be included. A notable
peculiarity in it is, that after the lowering of the aisle-roofs
externally, the triforium was glazed, so that there are two tiers
of windows above the main arches.[92] Many styles meet here.

The first three bays on the north side are Archbishop Roger's work,
while the three opposite are Perpendicular, and lastly, the three
easternmost bays on either side are chiefly Decorated.

To begin with the north side. The
arch in the first
bay has been built up, probably to
strengthen the
tower, and by the twelfth-century
builders themselves, for the abacus-moulding of the capital is
continued across the blocking wall.

In the latter the fifteenth-century builders have made a small
pointed doorway, which is now blocked but apparently once gave
access from the top of the screen to a staircase in the north aisle.

This and the two next bays bear in all three stages a general resemblance
to the east side of the north transept. The columns, however, are clusters
of eight cylindrical shafts, and stand upon circular plinths, the
base proper following, of course, the form of the pillar.

The capitals, as usual, are compound and composed of plain inverted
bells, and have square tops with the abacus hollowed and grooved. The
arches differ from those in the transept only in that the large moulding
under the soffit is 'keeled,' and that the mouldings which flank it are
simple ridges.

In the triforium the cusps visible in the glazed sub-arches belong to
some tracery which has been applied to the back at a later period.

[Illustration: THE GREAT EAST WINDOW.]

The treatment of the vaulting-shafts is very remarkable; indeed,
nothing is more instructive than the variety shown in the treatment
of this feature throughout Archbishop Roger's church, the different
parts of which are suggestive of nothing so much as of a series of
architectural experiments. Here, upon the capital of each column, rests
a sort of compound rectangular plinth, from which project three
corbels, hollowed underneath and having little blocks beneath their
overhanging edge.

From this plinth and corbels springs a cluster of no less than five
shafts, which, by their united width, conceal the springing of the
upper order of the main arches.

They are banded at the string-course below the triforium, and end
at the sill of the clearstorey in a compound capital, of which the
three central members are square, and the others round.

Upon this capital, apparently, stand the two adjoining shafts that
carry the thickening of the wall above the clearstorey, and here
(but hidden by the vaulting) stands also the original roof-shaft,
and these three are 'detached.'

Thus the arrangement is in principle similar to that adopted in the north
transept, while at the same time the clustered shafts are even more
disproportionate here than there to the slight burden they have
to carry; indeed the effect is that of five shafts diminishing to
one.

The vaulting hides a feature which is not found in the transept,
namely, a little lancet arch whose apex comes exactly behind the
roof-shaft in each bay.

[Illustration: BAY OF ARCHBISHOP ROGER'S CHOIR (WITHOUT THE VAULTING).
(From a drawing by Sir G. G. Scott, by permission of the Archæological
Institute.)]
[Illustration: DECORATED CAPITAL IN CHOIR.]
Though the three eastern bays (still on the north side) are chiefly
Decorated, portions of Archbishop Roger's work have been retained or used
again.

Thus the fourth column from the west is his, and perhaps the fifth up to
the abacus, which is convex and of limestone. The respond against the
east wall is of his pattern, but it has not the circular plinth,
and the capital is of limestone, has the abacus moulded with rounds
upon the edge, and is covered with delicate foliage in the Decorated
manner.

In these arches the lower order has exactly the same mouldings as in
the western bays, and is of gritstone, while the upper order is of
limestone, and has fillets upon the larger mouldings. It would seem,
therefore, that the later builders have used the original archivolts
again, and have merely added another order or orders over it.
The plane of the wall above, indeed, is brought forward to the face
of Archbishop Roger's vaulting-shafts: yet without being really
thickened, since it is set back from his wall on the exterior.

At the junction of the old vaulting-shafts with the additional order of the
first Decorated arch the later builders have carved a group of
grotesque faces.

In each bay of the Decorated triforium there is a round arch filled
with tracery consisting of three round-headed and trefoil lights with two
circles enclosing trefoils above them; and on either side of this arch
(but on one three only, in the first of the side bays) is a sunk lancet
panel enclosing a pointed arch impaling a trefoil. The clearstorey has
a second plane of tracery, a feature not very common in England. The
vaulting-shafts are in clusters of three and are filleted, and the
string-course below the triforium is not carried round them.

Each cluster springs from a semicircular corbel resting on a head,
and has its capitals enriched with foliage.

The last pendentive of the vaulting rests on a single shaft springing
directly from a head-corbel.

The string-courses are not of the same pattern with those on the older
bays.

[Illustration: THE NORTH SIDE OF THE CHOIR.
(Junction of Transitional and Decorated work.)]
On the south side the westernmost Perpendicular bay, up to the triforium,
is solid and covered with cinquefoil panelling. In the next two bays the
mouldings of the arch, among which a broad hollow is conspicuous,
are continued down the column, and there is no capital--a sign of
decadence more common in the Flamboyant work of the Continent than
here.

There is, however, a debased half-capital on the east side of the last
Perpendicular column, and on the west side of it are three small heads
at the impost-level.

These columns are lozenge-shaped in section, wider from north to south
than from east to west, and though the mouldings end before they
reach the bottom of the column, there is no proper base. Each column has
a shaft at the front and another at the back, the former carrying
the rim of the arch and having a stilted polygonal base but no
capital, while the latter has capital as well as base (both polygonal),
and helps to carry the aisle-vault.

The spandrels of these arches are filled with panelling, in which are
several shields (one bearing the arms of Pigott). The triforium again
shows in each bay a round arch; indeed, no better example than
this choir could be found of the truth that the form of the arch
is not a safe guide to the date of a building, but was often dictated
by convenience; for here in the triforium are round arches, of which
some belong to the twelfth, others to the thirteenth, and others
to the sixteenth century.

The fact that the distance between the string-courses was already
settled by the Transitional bays, compelled the later builders to
make their arches round, as a pointed arch of the requisite width
would have been too tall.

Here the round arch, which is again flanked by two panels, comprises three
cinquefoil lights, and the mullions are carried up through the head. The
panels are pointed and divided each into two cinquefoil divisions.

The Perpendicular clearstorey windows have their rims moulded, but are not
splayed.

The vaulting-shafts resemble those in the Decorated bays, but their
corbels are polygonal and have the sides slightly hollowed, and
the abacus of the capital is a half-lozenge.

The string-courses have not been made to match either the
Transitional or the Decorated.

The whole of this Perpendicular work is of
very late character, and justifies the
belief that it was the last important
alteration in the fabric
before the dissolution.

Moreover, where it meets the tower there
seems to be a 'straight joint,' which indicates
that these bays are at any rate later than the
tower piers.

East of the Perpendicular pillars the next
column is Archbishop Roger's, and perhaps
the next also, with the exception of its
capital, which has two
rings upon the necking, with the rectangular top imposed directly
upon them and chamfered beneath, while the abacus (which is of
limestone) is convex.[93] The respond against the east wall is again
of the old pattern, but without the circular plinth, and its capital
resembles that just described.

In the westernmost of these southern
Decorated bays three styles meet. The lower
order of the arch seems again to be
Transitional work, while
in the triforium and clearstorey Decorated arches have been filled
with Perpendicular tracery.

In the two remaining bays the main arches are
entirely Decorated, the lower order being of limestone
and the large moulding under the soffit
having a fillet. Over the last
two complete columns there is a little foliage, and of the corbels
of the vaulting-shafts one is enriched with foliage while the other
consists of a head between two embracing figures.

There is foliage upon the capitals of these vaulting-shafts, and
upon the capital and base of that which supports the last pendentive of
the vaulting. With the exceptions mentioned, these bays resemble those
opposite.

It has been remarked that the choir was probably as long in the twelfth
century as it is now. The point is indeed proved if (as there seems no
reason to doubt) the last complete column on either side is original and
occupies its original position; but a further indication is to be
found in the fact that the fragment of the original south wall,
the end of which is visible on the exterior between the south aisle
and the apse, extends well into the last bay of the present choir.[94]

The huge east window, which is not splayed, has a deep rear-vault
bounded by a massive rib, whose outer edge rests on slender engaged
shafts with foliage on their capitals, while the inner edge ends
in bunches of foliage.

Between this rib and the tracery is another rib springing on the north
side from a bunch of foliage and on the south from a grotesque corbel.
The inner arch has slender shafts, and so has the moulding next to the
tracery, but in the latter case the capitals are plain.[95] Few
acts of vandalism are more to be regretted, probably, than the
destruction in 1643 of the magnificent fourteenth century glass
which once occupied this window.

Did they ever get drowned in seas full
of foaming ambitions? Did they ever fight without dignity but with joy
for a cause? Did they ever shout and jump with joy in their pyjamas in
the moonlight? Did they ever feel just drunk with being young, and in at
the start? And were Older and Wiser people's jokes ever funny?"

"We were fools often," said Mr. Russell. "Once, when I was fifteen, I bit
my hand--and here is the scar--because I thought I had found a new thing
in life, and I thought I was the first discoverer. But as to jokes, you
are on very dangerous ground there. One's sense of humour is a more
tender point than one's heart, especially an Older and Wiser sense of
humour. You know, we think the jokes of your nice new age not half so
funny as ours. But as neither you nor I make jokes, that obstacle need
not come between us."

"Oh, I think difference of date is never in itself an obstacle," said
Jay. "Time is not important enough to be an obstacle."

"You and I know that," said Mr. Russell.

A little unnoticed knot of Salvationists surprised Jay at a distance by
singing the tune of a sentimental song popular five years ago, and then
they surprised her again, as she passed them, and heard the words to
which the tune was being sung. Brimstone had usurped the place of the
roses in that song, and the love left in it was not apparently the kind
of love that Hackney understands.

"Why don't they sing the old hymn tunes?" asked Jay. "Or tunes like
'Abide with Me'--not very old or very good, but worn down with
devotion like the steps of an old church? Why do they take the drama
out of it all?"

Chloris at that moment introduced drama into the drive by jumping out of
the back seat of Christina. I must, I suppose, admit that Chloris was not
Really Quite a Lady. On the contrary, motor 'buses were the only motors
she knew. She mistook the estimable Christina for a deformed motor 'bus,
and when she smelt Victoria Park, she jumped out. Even for Chloris this
was an unsuccessful day. A flash of yelping lightning caught the tail of
Jay's eye, and she looked round to see her dignified dog, upside down,
skid violently down a steep place into the gutter, and there disappear
beneath the skirt of a female stranger who was poised upon the kerb.
Unhurt, but probably blushing furiously beneath her fur over her own
vulgarity, Chloris was retrieved, and spent the rest of the drive in
wiping all traces of the accident off her ribs on to the cushions of
Christina. I am glad that Mr. Russell's Hound was not there to witness
poor Chloris's unsophisticated confession of caste.

"Where are we going?" asked Jay, when she was calm again.

"God knows where ..." said Mr. Russell.

"I'm always coming across districts of that name," said Jay severely. "I
often direct my enquiring fares to the region of God Knows Where. It is
most unsatisfying. Where are we going?"

"On for ever," said Mr. Russell. "Out of the world. To the House
by the Sea."

"Then will you please set me down at Baker's Arms?" said Jay. "Do you
know, by the way, that Anonyma always says 'Stay' to a 'bus, if she
remembers in time not to say 'Hi, stop,' like a common person."

She was talking desperately against failure, but it seemed a doomed day,
and nothing she could think of seemed worth saying.

"I want to talk to you about your House by the Sea," said Mr. Russell.
"You know I found it."

"Don't tell me any facts," implored Jay. "Don't tell me you pressed half
a crown into the palm of the oldest and wisest inhabitant, and found out
facts about some nasty young man who was born in seventeen something, and
lived in a place called Atlantic View, and wore curls and a choky stock,
and fought at Waterloo, and lies in the village church under a stone
monstrosity. Don't tell me facts, because I know they will bar me for
ever out of my House by the Sea. Facts are contraband there."

"There is no House by that Sea now," said Mr. Russell. "A slate quarry
has devoured the headland on which it used to stand. Where the House used
to be there is air now. I daresay the ghosts you knew still trace out the
shape of the House in the air."

"The ghosts I know," corrected Jay. "Don't put it in the past."

"It's all in the past," said Mr. Russell. "It's all a dream, and an echo,
and the ghost of the day before yesterday."

"How do you know?" asked Jay. "How can you tell it's not 1916 that's
the ghost?"

She had been taught by her Friend to take very few things for granted,
and time least of all.

"I asked you to tell me no facts," she added.

"I'll only tell you two," persisted Mr. Russell. "One is that they have
in the church near the quarry a dark wooden figure of a saint, with the
raised arm broken, and straight draperies. I saw it, and they told me
what I knew already, that it came out of the hall of a house that was
drowned in the sea. The other fact is a story that the tobacconist told
me, about a wriggly ladder, and stone balls, and the Law. In the
tobacconist's childhood they found the stone balls at the foot of the
cliff in the sand. That story, too, I knew already. Quite apart from
your letters, you little secret friend, I knew the face of that sea
directly I saw it."

"But how did you know? How dared you know?"

"Oh well," said Mr. Russell, "you asked me to tell you no facts."

Mr. Russell was not observant. He was not sufficiently alive to be
observant. He was much occupied in remembering phantom yesterdays, and I
do not think he listened very much to what the 'bus-conductor said. He
only enjoyed the sound of her voice, which he remembered. So he did not
know that she was unhappy.

They came presently to a separate part of the forest, which is impaled
upon a straight white road. The earth beneath the trees was caught in a
mesh of shadows. The trees are high and vaulted there, but the forest is
very reticent. The detail of its making is so small that you can only
see it if you lie down on your face. Do this and you can see the green
threads of the earth's material woven across the skeletons of last year's
leaves. You can see the little lawns of moss and weeds, too small to
name, that make the way brilliant for the ants. You can watch the heroic
armoured beetles defying their world. You can cover with a leaf the great
open-air public meeting-places of six-legged things. You can see the
spiders at work on their silver cranes, you can watch the bold elevated
activities of the caterpillars. You can feel the scattered grasses stroke
your eyelids, you can hear the low songs of fairies among the roots of
the trees. All these things you may enjoy if you lie down, but the forest
does not show them to you. The forest pays you the great compliment of
ignoring you, and it does not care whether you see its intimate
possessions or not. I think perhaps no day is really unsuccessful that
gives you forest earth against your forehead, and forest grass between
your fingers, and high forest trees to stand between you and the ultimate
confession of failure.

Jay and Mr. Russell boarded out Christina the motor car for the day at
an inn, and then they sat and gradually introduced themselves to the
forest. Showers fell on their hatless heads, and they did not notice. A
mole rose like a submarine from the waves of the forest earth, and they
did not notice. The butterflies danced like little tunes in the sunlit
clearing, and they did not notice. And from a long way off, near the
swings, holiday shrieks trailed along the wind, and they did not notice.

Jay told Mr. Russell, one by one, small unmattering things that she
remembered out of her Secret World, and each time when she had told him
he wondered with regret why he had not remembered it by himself. He had
never thought it worth while to remember before; his imagination was
crippled, and needed crutches. He had not thought it worth while to think
much about the time when he was young, the time when his past had been as
big and shining as his future. The longer we live, it seems, the less we
remember, and no men and few women normally possess a secret story after
thirty. It would not matter so much if you only lost your story, a worse
fate than loss befalls it--you laugh at it. It is curious how the world
draws in as one gets older and wiser. The past catches one up, the future
burns away like a candle. I used to think that growing up was like
walking from one end of a meadow to the other, I thought that the meadow
would remain, and one had only to turn one's head to see it all again.
But now I know that growing up is like going through a door into a little
room, and the door shuts behind one.

I think Mr. Russell's point of difference from most older and wiser
people was that he had not forgotten the excitement of writing down
snatches of his secret story as it came to him, and the passion of
tearing up the thing that he wrote, and the delight of finding that he
could not tear it out of his heart. He was a silent person, and a
rather neglected person, and unbusinesslike, and unsuccessful, and
uncultured, and unsociable, and unbeautiful. So there was nothing
worse than emptiness where his secret story used to be. He had not
found it worth while to fill the space. He had not found it worth
while to shut the door.

"Do you remember that Christmas," said Jay, "when there was a blizzard,
and a great sea, and the foam blinded the western windows of the House,
and the children went out to sing 'Love and joy come to you'? (Those
aren't real words any more now, are they? only pretty caricatures.) And
when the children came in with snow and foam plastered up their windward
sides, do you remember that one of them said, 'Is this what Lot's wife
felt like?'"

"I can just remember Love and Joy mixed up with the wind at the window,"
said Mr. Russell. "But always best of all I can remember the way you
looked on ..."

"Me?" said Jay. "I wasn't there."

"Oh yes you were, and that's what you forget. You were there always, and
when I was looking for the House I believe it was always you I was
expecting to find there."

"Me! Me, with this same old face?" gasped Jay. "Oh, excuse me, but you
lie. You never recognised me in my 'bus."

"I knew without knowing I knew. I remembered without remembering that I
remembered. We haven't made a psychical discovery, Jay, we have done
nothing to write a book about. Only you remember so well that you have
reminded me."

"I don't believe that can be true," said Jay. "I know I wasn't there."

"Why can't you see the truth of it?" asked Mr. Russell, sighing for
so many words wasted. "In that House by the Sea, who was your
Secret Friend?"

"My Friend," said Jay, "is young and very full of youth. He is like a
baby who knows life and yet finds it very amusing, and very new. He is
without the gift of rest, but then he does not need it, the world in
which he lives is not so tired and not so muddling as our world. In him
my only belief and my only colour and my last dregs of romance, and
certainly my youth survive. We never bother about reserve, and we never
mind being sentimental in my Secret World. We just live, and we are never
tortured by the futility of knowledge."

"Well," said Mr. Russell, "I had a Secret Friend in my House, and she was
wonderful because she was so young that she knew nothing. She never
asked questions, but she thought questions. She knew nothing, she was
waiting to grow up. She had little colour, only peace and promise. I knew
she would grow up, but I also knew she would never grow old. I knew she
would learn much, but I also knew she would never become complete and ask
no more questions. That voice of hers would always end on a questioning
note. You see, I have found my Secret Friend, grown-up, grown old enough
to enjoy and understand a new and more vital youth."

"Shall I find my Friend?" asked Jay.

"Yes," said Mr. Russell in a very low voice. "You can find him if you
look. You can find him, grown very old and ugly and tired. There are
different ways of growing up, and your Secret Friend was rash in using up
too great a share of his sum of life in the House by the Sea."

Then Jay was suddenly enormously happy, and the veil of failure fell away
from the day and from her life. She held in her hand incredible
coincidences. The angle of the forest, the upright trees upon the sloping
earth, the bend of the sky, the round bubble shapes of the clouds upon
their appointed way, the agreement of the young leaves one with another,
the unfailing pulse of the spring,--all these things seemed to her a
chance, an unlikely and perfect consummation, that had been reached only
by the extraordinary cleverness of God. All love and all success were
pressed into a hair's-breadth, and yet the target was never missed.

"You shall go down to the House by the Sea," said Jay. "You shall go when
the moon is next full over the sea that drowned our house. You shall come
from the east, along the rocky path, as you used to come, between the
foxgloves; you shall play at being a god, coming between the stars and
the sea. And I will play at being a goddess, as I used to play at being a
ghost, and I will run to meet you from the west, and the high grasses and
the ferns shall whip my knees, and the thistles shall bow to me, and the
sea shall be very calm and say no word, and there shall be no ship in
sight. And we will go down the steep path to the shore, and we will stand
where the sand is wet, and look up to where our drowned House used to
be. And there shall be no facts any more, only the ghosts, and the
dreams. Oh, surely it has never happened before--this meeting of Secret
Friends--and surely no friend ever loved her friend as I love you, and
surely there never was so little room for sin and disappointment in any
love as there is in ours. Surely there are no tears in the world any
more, and no Brown Borough, and no War. I don't care if I go hungry every
day till we meet, I don't care if I have nothing but hated clothes to
wear in my Secret World. I don't care if there are six changes on the
journey to the sea, and at every change I miss my connection. I don't
care if the end lasts only a minute, because the minute will last for
ever, there are no facts any more. Because of you the little bothers of
the world are gone, and the big bothers never did exist, because of you.
Oh, I can say what I mean at last, and if it's nonsense--I don't care,
because of you...."

Presently she said, "And now I wonder if I am very proud or very much
ashamed of having spoken."

"You said once," Mr. Russell reminded her, "that life was just a bead
upon a string. Well, does it much matter whether one bead is the colour
of pride or the colour of shame? Does one successful bead more or less
matter, my dear? I think it's all a succession of explanations, more or
less lucid, and all different and all confusing. A string of beads more
or less beautiful, and all unvalued. We don't know that any of the
explanations are true, we don't know that any of the beads have any
worth. We only know that they are ours...."

"I don't care if I trample my beads in the mud," said Jay. "Now let's go
home and think."

When she and Chloris got home that evening to Eighteen Mabel Place,
Chloris barked at a man who was waiting outside the door. He was a young
man in khaki, with one star; he looked very white, and was reading
something from his pocket-book.

"Great Scott, Bill," said Jay. "I thought you were busy sapping in
France. Were you anywhere near Kew?"

I do not know if you will remember the name of young William Morgan. I
think I have only mentioned him once or twice.

"I got back on leave two hours ago," said Mr. Morgan. "I have been
waiting here thirty-two minutes. I saw Kew every day last week, and I was
with him when he died, three hours before I came away yesterday."

Jay was silent. She opened the door, and in the sitting-room she
placed--very carefully--two chairs looking at each other across
the table.

"Jay," said William Morgan, "I am deadly afraid of doing this badly. Kew
and I talked a good deal before it happened, and there was a good deal he
wanted me to tell you. All the way back in the train and on the boat I
have been writing notes to remind me what I had to say to you. I hope you
don't mind. I hope you don't think it callous."

"No," said Jay.

"He was very anxious you should know the truth about it, because he said
he had never lied to you. He was always sure that if he were shot it
would be in the back while he was lacing his boots, or at some other
unromantic moment. And in that case he said he could lie to Anonyma and
your cousin vicariously through the War Office, which would write to
them about Glory, and Duty, and Thanks Due. But he wanted me to write to
you, and tell you how it happened, and tell you that death was just an
ordinary old thing, no more romantic than anything else, without a
capital letter, and that one died as one had lived--in a little ordinary
way--and that there was no such thing as Glory between people who didn't
lie to each other. I am telling you all this from my notes. I should
never have thought of any of it for myself, as you know. I hope you
don't mind."

"No," said Jay. She heard what he said, yet she was not listening. Her
mind was listening to things heard a very long time ago. She heard
herself and Kew in confidential chorus, saying those laboriously simple
prayers that Anonyma used to teach them. She heard again the swishing
that their feet used to make in the leaves of Kensington Gardens. Kew's
was the louder swish by right. She thought of him as an admirable big
brother of eight, with a round face and blunt feet and very hard hands.
She heard the comfortable roar of the nursery fire, and the comfortable
sound of autumn rain baffled by the window; she saw the early winter
breakfast by lamplight, and the red nursery carpet that had an oblong
track worn away round the table by the frequent game of "Little Men
Jumping." She heard the voice of Kew clamouring against the voice of Nana
because he would not eat his bacon-fat. On those days there was a horrid
resurrection at luncheon of the bacon-fat uneaten at breakfast.

"As it happened," continued Mr. Morgan, no longer white, but very red,
"he wasn't killed in an advance, or anything grand. He told me to tell
you, so I am telling you. He was killed by a sniper while he was setting
a trap of his own invention to catch the rats as they came over the
parapet. He was shot in the chest very early yesterday morning, and he
lived about four hours. He was not in much pain, he even laughed a little
once or twice to think he should have lived and died so consistently. He
told me that he had never seen a moment's real romantic fighting; he had
never once felt patriotic or dramatic or dutiful, he said. He wandered a
little, I think, because he seemed worried about the rats that might be
caught in the trap he had set. He seemed to mix up the rats and the
Boches. He said that these creatures didn't know they were vermin, they
just thought they were honest average animals doing their bit, and then
suddenly killed by a malignant chaos. My notes are very hurried. I am
afraid I am repeating myself."

Jay remembered the mouse they once caught, and kept in a bottle for a
day, and the palace they made for it out of stones and mud and moss, and
the sun-bath of patted mud they made by the door of the palace. But the
mouse, when it was installed, flashed straight out of the front door, and
jumped the sun-bath, and knocked down a daisy, and was never seen again.
But Jay and Kew used to believe that on moonlit nights it came back to
the palace, and brought its wife and children, and was grateful to the
palace builders.

"A few days before he was killed," said Mr. Morgan, "he told me that he
had lied so successfully all his life that quite a lot of people thought
him a most admirable young man. He said Anonyma once brought him into a
book, and when he read that book he saw how lying paid, as long as one
didn't lie to absolutely everybody. He said if he died Anonyma would
write something very nice upon his memorial brass about a pure heart or
everlasting life, and he thought you would smile a little at that. He
said that he remembered going home with you in a 'bus and seeing on the
window of the 'bus a text that promised everlasting life on certain
conditions. He said the remembrance of that text tired him still. He said
he had had too much of himself, he had known himself too well, and when
death came, he wanted it to be an honest little death with no frills, and
after that an everlasting sleep with no dreams. I am putting it all in
the wrong order. I shall make you despise me. You talk so well yourself."

Jay was remembering the "Coos" they used to have in the big armchair in
the nursery. When they found that they suddenly loved each other
unbearably, they had a Coo, they tied themselves up in a little tangle
together, and sang Coo in soft voices. And then they felt relieved. Jay
remembered the last Coo. It happened when Kew's voice was breaking ten
years ago, and he found that he could no longer coo except in a funny
falsetto. So, rather than become farcical, the Coos ceased.

"I don't know quite why Kew wanted me to tell you all this," said Mr.
Morgan, "except that he said you knew so much about him that you might as
well get as near as possible to knowing everything. He never thought he
would be killed, in fact I gave him a lot of messages of my own to give
to my mother in case I went. But at the last, when he knew he was dying,
he was desperately anxious you should know that he did not die a
'Stranger's death,' as he said. He thought any hint of drama about his
death would spoil your friendship. He said you knew more than most people
about friends, and he thought that in this way you could find for him a
certain 'secret immortality' which would make the soil of France comfier
for him to sleep in. And then he said, 'If I'm too poetic--like a
swan--don't report me too accurately.' He seemed to go to sleep for some
time after that, and every now and then he laughed very faintly in his
sleep. I had to leave him for a bit, and when I came back he was still
asleep. The only thing he said after that was: 'This is awfully
exciting.' He said that about ten minutes before he died. I hope I'm not
making it too painful for you, dear little Jay.'"

"No," said Jay. Quite irrelevantly, she had found her Secret Friend. She
found a little dark wood, burnt and broken by fire, in a grey light, and
there was a wet ditch that skirted the edge of it. She saw the hopeless
and regretful sky, there was neither night nor morning in it, there was
neither sun nor moon. These things she noticed, but more than all she saw
her Secret Friend, lying crouched upon his side close to the ditch, with
his arms about his face. She saw the slow leaves fall upon him from the
ruined trees, she saw the damp air settle in beads upon his clothes. His
feet were in the undergrowth, and above them the dripping net of the
spider was flung. She had never seen her Friend quite still before. All
her life her Secret Friend and her Secret Sea had kept her soul awake
with movement. But her Friend was dead, and there was no more sea. The
very fine rain blew across her Secret World, and blotted it out. The very
distant sound of guns--which was not so much a sound as an indescribable
vacuum of sound--shattered the walls of her bubble enchantment.

"Oh, darling Jay," said Mr. William Morgan, "I wish I could help you. I
can't go away and leave you like this. I wish I could help you."

She found she had her forehead on the table, and her hands were knotted
in her lap. And where once the Gate to the House had been, there was only
London now. No more would the drum of the sea beat in her heart, there
was nothing left but the throbbing of distant trams.

"So it's all lies ..." she said quietly. "There really is a thing called
death after all. People die...."

"Jay, darling, don't," sobbed Mr. Morgan. "For God's sake marry me, and
I'll comfort you. I won't die--I swear I won't. And after all, it's
Spring. There's no real death in the Spring. Kew can't have died."

"Oh, what's the use of these eternal seasons?" said Jay. "There is
a thing called death. And death has no romance and no reason. The
rats died, and Kew died, and the secret world died, and there is
nothing left...."

  It was young David, lord of sheep and cattle,
Pursued his Fate, the April fields among,
Singing a song of solitary battle,
A loud mad song, for he was very young.

  Vivid the air--and something more than vivid,--
Tall clouds were in the sky--and something more,--
The light horizon of the spring was livid
With a steel smile that showed the teeth of War.

  It was young David mocked the Philistine.
It was young David laughed beside the river.
There came his mother--his and yours and mine--
With five smooth stones, and dropped them in his quiver.

  You never saw so green-and-gold a fairy.
You never saw such very April eyes.
She sang him sorrow's song to make him wary,
She gave him five smooth stones to make him wise.

  The first stone is love, and that shall fail you.
The second stone is hate, and that shall fail you.
The third stone is knowledge, and that shall fail you.
The fourth stone is prayer, and that shall fail you.
The fifth stone shall not fail you.

  For what is love, O lovers of my tribe?
And what is love, O women of my day?
Love is a farthing piece, a bloody bribe
Pressed in the palm of God, and thrown away.

  And what is hate, O fierce and unforgiving?
And what shall hate achieve, when all is said?
A silly joke, that cannot reach the living,
A spitting in the faces of the dead.

  And what is knowledge, O young men who tasted
The reddest fruit on that forbidden tree?
Knowledge is but a painful effort wasted,
A bitter drowning in a bitter sea.

  And what is prayer, O waiters for the answer?
And what is prayer, O seekers of the cause?
Prayer is the weary soul of Herod's dancer,
Dancing before blind kings without applause.

  The fifth stone is a magic stone, my David,
Made up of fear and failure, lies and loss.
Its heart is lead, and on its face is graved
A crooked cross, my son, a crooked cross.

  It has no dignity to lend it value;
No purity--alas--it bears a stain.
You shall not give it gratitude, nor shall you
Recall it all your days except with pain.

  Oh, bless your blindness, glory in your groping!
Mock at your betters with an upward chin!
And, when the moment has gone by for hoping,
Sling your fifth stone, O son of mine, and win.

  Grief do I give you--grief and dreadful laughter.
Sackcloth for banner, ashes in your wine.
Go forth, go forth, nor ask me what comes after.
The fifth stone shall not fail you, son of mine.

GO FORTH, GO FORTH, AND SLAY THE PHILISTINE!

There were a few very warm days and nights in the west last spring. It
was at the time of the full moon.

There were so few clouds in the sky that when the sun went down it found
no canvas on which to paint its picture. So it went down unpictured into
a bank of grey heat that hid the horizon of the sea, and no one thought
it worth watching except a man coming alone along the cliff from the
northeast. The moon came up and filled the quarry with ghosts, and with
confused and blinded memories. The sea advanced in armies of great smooth
waves, but under the moon the wind went down, and the waves went down,
and there was less and less sound in the air.

One man watched the dwindling waves troop into the cove near the quarry.
There was only one pair of eyes in the whole world that tried that night
to trace in the air the shape of a drowned house. There was only one
shadow by the quarry for the moon to cast upon the thyme. There was no
voice but the voice of the sea. No passing but the peaceful passing of
the lambs disturbed the thistles and the foxgloves.

The sea rose like a wall across the night, a wall that shut half of life
away. The sky fell like a curtain on the land, but there was no piece to
be played, so the curtain was never raised.

One man waited all the night through, like a child waiting for the
fairies. The sea grew calmer and calmer, the tide went down, and the cove
spread out its long sands like fingers into the sea. There was a shadow
on the sands below the quarry, and it may have been the shadow of a
house. And perhaps when the tide came up at dawn it devoured old
footprints upon the shore, the prints of feet that will never come back.
I think that when the moon fled away into oblivion, it was not only the
moon that fled, but also a bubble world, full of dead secrets.

How foolish to wait for the culmination of a secret story! How foolish
of a man to wait all night for the redemption of an old promise, for the
resurrection of a forgotten romance! There are no secret stories, there
is no secret world, there are no secret friends. The House by the Sea has
been drowned, and even its ghosts have forgotten it. After all, there was
nothing to remember. The gate to the House is barred, not by a lock but
by a laugh. Reality and not adversity has blown the bubble away.

I remember the moment when Jay found four-fifths of her life proved
false. I remember that she besieged the world with tears; I remember that
she bruised her hands against the iron gate. How foolish to bruise one's
hands against nothingness!


ANTI-CLIMAX


"It is well," sighed Anonyma, "that our little Jay has at last found
Romance. Since first she came to my arms--a toddling sceptic of four--I
have seen what she lacked, I have prayed that I--who possessed it--might
perhaps be inspired to give her the Clue.... Yet to young Bill Morgan it
was given to show her the way ... to unlock the door.... Oh! Russ, we
grow older and wiser and are left behind. The young reap where we have
sown.... Is this always to be the end of our youth?"

Mr. Russell laughed a little. [Illustration]

Two Chappies at a tennis meet
Were battling fast and hard-- The
Go-cart skidded off the street And
shot across the yard

The game was "forty all," but
then It didn't end that day--
The Go-cart dashed into the net And
carried it away!

[Illustration]
On came the Go-cart down the
grade (The town was now behind it) And ran into an orchard's shade
Where Providence resigned it!
But then it only grazed a tree And set it all a-shiver; The ripened
fruit fell merrily And likewise Sammy Sliver!

       *       *       *       *       *

At midnight, when the night did dance
Along the hours that led to morning,
I saw a little boat advance
Towards the great moon's beacon warning.

(The moon, God's Slave, who lights the torch,
Lest men should slip between the bars,
And run aground on Heav'n and scorch
To death upon a bank of stars.)

The little boat, on leaning keel,
Sang up the mountains of the sea,
Bearing a man who hoped to steal
God's Slave from out eternity.

My love, I see you through my tears.
No pity in your face I see.
I have sailed far across the years:
Stretch out, stretch out your arms to me.

My love, I have an island seen,
So shadowed, God's most piercing star
Shall never see where we have been,
Shall never whisper where we are.

There we will wander, you and I,
Down guilty and delightful ways,
While palm-trees plait their fingers high
Against your God's enormous gaze.

pick Emblems, Divine and Moral,
Ancient and Modern; or
entrancement for the Ingenious
in above Fifty Select emblem, oddly Ingraven upon Cu base.

With engraved facade,&c. 12mo.
Lond. 1721. Printed for Edmund
Parker. Castanoza( toilet).
The Slave of God she froze her face,
The Slave of God she paid no heed,
And thund'ring down high Heaven's space
Loud angels mocked the sailor's greed.

The diamond sun arose, and tossed
A billion gems across the sea.
"The Slave of God is lost, is lost,
The Slave of God is lost to me...."

He grounded on the common beach,
He trod the little towns of men,
And God removed from his reach
The cup of Heaven's passion then,
And gave him vulgar love and speech,
And gave him threescore years and ten.