Produced by David Widger


CELEBRATED CRIMES, COMPLETE

BY ALEXANDRE DUMAS, PERE

IN EIGHT VOLUMES


ALI PACHA


CHAPTER I

The beginning of the nineteenth century was a time of audacious
enterprises and strange vicissitudes of fortune. Whilst Western Europe
in turn submitted and struggled against a sub-lieutenant who made
himself an emperor, who at his pleasure made kings and destroyed
kingdoms, the ancient eastern part of the Continent, like mummies which
preserve but the semblance of life, was gradually tumbling to pieces,
and getting parcelled out amongst bold adventurers who skirmished
over its ruins. Without mentioning local revolts which produced only
short-lived struggles and trifling changes of administration, such as
that of Djezzar Pacha, who refused to pay tribute because he thought
himself impregnable in his citadel of Saint-Jean-d'Acre, or that of
Passevend-Oglou Pacha, who planted himself on the walls of Widdin as
defender of the Janissaries against the institution of the regular
militia decreed by Sultan Selim at Stamboul, there were wider spread
rebellions which attacked the constitution of the Turkish Empire and
diminished its extent; amongst them that of Czerni-Georges, which raised
Servia to the position of a free state; of Mahomet Ali, who made his
pachalik of Egypt into a kingdom; and finally that of the man whose
history we are about to narrate, Ali Tepeleni, Pacha of Janina, whose
long resistance to the suzerain power preceded and brought about the
regeneration of Greece.

Ali's own will counted for nothing in this important movement. He
foresaw it, but without ever seeking to aid it, and was powerless
to arrest it. He was not one of those men who place their lives and
services at the disposal of any cause indiscriminately; and his sole
aim was to acquire and increase a power of which he was both the guiding
influence, and the end and object. His nature contained the seeds
of every human passion, and he devoted all his long life to their
development and gratification. This explains his whole temperament; his
actions were merely the natural outcome of his character confronted
with circumstances. Few men have understood themselves better or been on
better terms with the orbit of their existence, and as the personality
of an individual is all the more striking, in proportion as it reflects
the manners and ideas of the time and country in which he has lived, so
the figure of Ali Pacha stands out, if not one of the most brilliant, at
least one of the most singular in contemporary history.

From the middle of the eighteenth century Turkey had been a prey to the
political gangrene of which she is vainly trying to cure herself to-day,
and which, before long, will dismember her in the sight of all Europe.
Anarchy and disorder reigned from one end of the empire to the other.
The fact is that all the Mohammedan world was in a state of restless
activity, as the jehad, or holy war, was being preached. And now I will
tell a most remarkable circumstance, quite the most extraordinary in this
book.

Sultan Hussein told my husband _on February 1_ that a consul had
been murdered at Jedda.

We were most excited about this, and anxiously inquired about it when we
reached Aden, but heard that no murder had taken place, _nor did it till
May_, when several consuls were murdered.

This proves that it must have been a very long-arranged plan, and that the
sultan knew of it and thought it had had time to be carried out. No
doubt all this accounted for his bad reception of us.

After a good deal of illusory delay, the sultan declared he could not
in any way be responsible for our safety if we went anywhere from
Sheher, so we had to bow to the inevitable and put ourselves on
board a dhow belonging to Kutch, bound for Aden.

The captain and sailors were all Hindoos, and to our amusement our
Mohammedan party were as unclean as ourselves. The crew would not let
us touch their fire and water, and filled our vessels themselves
without touching them, very good-humouredly, and they made up an extra
galley for us by putting some sand in a wooden box, and here Christians
and Moslems had perforce to cook together. Of course we did not mind, but
there was much laughter at the expense of the others, in which indeed
they joined, for they bore their adversity amiably when it brought strange
cooking-fellows.

On reaching Aden we still desired to penetrate into the Jebel Akhdar,
so looked out for a ship going to Maskat. We could find none,
therefore we embarked for India with all our company. I am not going to
describe India, but will only tell of our money difficulties.

So ignorant were we and everyone at Maskat as to what money was in use in
Dhofar, that we were persuaded that it was necessary to take an immense
quantity of small change in the shape of copper coins about the size
of a farthing, supposed to be Omani. We had four wooden boxes bound
with wire, about 1 foot long and 5 or 6 inches high and wide, delivered
to us, all closed up, and said to have a certain sum in each.

Soon after we set out we opened one of these boxes to get out some money
and have it ready, but found in it so many and various kinds of coins,
all the same size, that we opened all the boxes, making quite a mound
on the ground, to sort out the German East Africa, English East Africa,
Zanzibar, and other useless coins, and then packed them neatly up, an
awfully troublesome and dirty job. We kept out what we thought would
pass, but behold! all were useless; no one would look at anything
but Maria Theresa dollars and Indian coins down to two-anna pieces--nothing
lower.

All these boxes, therefore, had to return to Maskat, and when paying
off the interpreter, Hassan, a most respectable person with large,
round, gold spectacles, my husband asked him to be kind enough to
take his money in these boxes and change at Maskat.

No, he would only have good silver dollars; and sadly he rued
his want of good-nature.

We two and Lobo, whom we retained, went to a hotel in Bombay, but Imam
Sharif, Khan Bahadur, his four men, our Goanese cook, Hassan, and a
certain young Afghan, Ahmet, who had been a sort of odd man and
tent-pitcher, went to a caravanserai; and after Hassan's steamer had
departed to Maskat, Imam Sharif came and told us the doleful tidings
that Ahmet had disappeared with the good silver dollars and the
gold watch and chain of Hassan. No doubt he then regretted he had
not taken the boxes of copper.

[Illustration: MAP OF
MOUNT ERBA
and surrounding country
to illustrate the explorations of
Mr. J. THEODORE BENT
_Stanford's Geog.^l Estab.^t, London_
London: Smith, Elder & Co.]

AN AFRICAN INTERLUDE: THE EASTERN SOUDAN

CHAPTER XXIII
COASTING ALONG THE RED SEA

In the winter of 1895, though we still wished to continue our investigations
in Arabia, we found it impracticable, owing to the warlike state of the
tribes there, so we decided to turn our attention to the other side
of the Red Sea, and travel once more in Africa.

Parts of Africa have to be discovered and other parts rediscovered.

Each little war and each little journey contributes to the accomplishment
of both these ends with surprising rapidity, but the geographical
millennium is looming in the distance when the traveller will no
longer require his sextant and theodolite, but will take his spade
and pruning-hook to cultivate the land this generation is so busy
in discovering.

That winter we added a few square miles to a blank corner of the
map where re-discovery was necessary, and where re-discovery will
go on apace and produce most interesting results, when we have finished
conquering the barbarous followers of the Khalifa, and restore law and
order to that wide portion of Africa known as the Eastern Soudan; for the
Soudan, meaning in Arabic 'the country of the blacks,' really extends
from the Atlantic to the Red Sea. Little did we think when we started
to explore the western shores of the Red Sea that the explosion with the
Dervishes was so near, otherwise I think we should have turned our
steps in another direction.

We had with us Mr. Alfred Cholmley, who took numbers of beautiful
photographs, and Lieutenant, now Captain, N. M. Smyth, D.S.O., Queen's
Bays, kindly attached to our expedition by Colonel Sir F. Wingate,
and to his exertions we owe the map.

My husband had always thought it foolish to engage an interpreter unknown
to him, on his own responsibility, and would only have one recommended
by the official of our Government.

The choice made for us on this occasion was not at all successful. He
tried to make out that he was the principal leader of the party, and
his impedimenta far exceeded ours. He may or may not have been sent
to keep us from going more than ten miles from the coast, but no
explorer would wish to remain within the limits set down in the Admiralty
Chart. My husband found it necessary to dispense with his services when
we were at Mersa Halaib, and we got on far better without him.

Our first task was to choose a ship; it was exciting work rowing about
in the harbour of Suez in order to find one that would suit us.

A letter from our interpreter had told us we could have one at 120_l._
a month, a sum which our great experience of sailing-boats told us was
quite too large. When we started our search, having refused this, we
were only shown wretched boats in which we could hardly sit and certainly
not stand. We espied one we thought would do, and said nothing at that
time, but afterwards my husband and Matthaios went off by themselves
and engaged her for 35_l._ a month, and I do not think that a better
ship was to be found in Suez--certainly there was none worth 120_l._

Our boat was an Arab dhow of 80 tons, named the _Taisir_; we at once put
her in the hands of a carpenter, who boarded off two cabins for us four
whites, in the big, open stern cabin, leaving a sort of verandah
in front of them, about 8 feet in depth, where we lived by day.
Campbell Bey, who lives at Terre Pleine, pronounced by the English
Terry Plain, kindly lent us two water-tanks containing half a ton each.

We embarked late on Christmas night, and by the murky light of lanterns
the ship looked most dreary and uninviting; but when we had furnished
it, by laying down our tent carpet and beds and hanging sheets of
coloured calico over the gaping boards of our walls, and had put up the
cabin bags, we were quite snug.

We always had to close in our verandah with a sail at night, for when
the ship swung round at anchor we were exposed to the north wind.

Our captain, Reis Hamaya, turned out an excellent fellow, as also
did the seventeen sailors he had under him; and though at times they
would quarrel loudly enough amongst themselves, the only points of discord
which arose between them and us always had reference to the length of
time they wished to stop in harbour and the length of distance they
wished to go in a day. Ill-fed, dirty, unkempt men as our sailors were,
we got to like them all, from the elderly dignified Mohammed, who
thought he knew more about navigation than the captain, to Ahmet
Faraj, the buffoon who played the tom-tom and made everybody laugh;
this worthy individual was the recognised leader of all the festivities
with which they regaled us from time to time, consisting of very
ugly songs and a yet uglier dance, the chief art in which consisted
in wagging their elastic tails with an energy which mortals further
removed from monkey origin could never hope to approach.

We travelled all the first night, but the second we anchored near Safaia
Island, and the third at a place called Sheikh Ganem, in front of the
Ashrafi Light, and the fourth day found us at Kosseir, which means 'little
castle.' The Government steamer _Abbas_, which had started one day
after us and gone straight down 'outside', had only got in two hours
before us, and we had been 'inside', through the reefs, and stopped all
night, so we thought we had not done badly.

We stayed two nights in the harbour to make our final victualling
arrangements.

Kosseir, our last really civilised point, is now a wretched place,
though twice in its existence it has been of importance, owing to
its road connection with Keneh on the Nile.

Five miles to the north of the present town are the ruins of the old
Ptolemaic one, Myos Hormos (Kosseir Kadim), where the Red Sea fleets
in ancient days assembled to start for India; twenty years ago it was
a favourite point for the departure of pilgrims for Mecca, and the P.
and O. had offices there, which are now turned into camel-stables.
Kosseir is waiting for a railway before it can again recoup its
fortunes.

There are two mosques of pretty architecture, with courses of dark red
stone from Keneh, and white Kosseir limestone; there are also diaper and
fretwork patterns; the pillars are similarly decorated and are quaint and
picturesque. The tombs of the Ababdeh sheikhs have melon-shaped domes,
and there are endless dovecotes, chiefly made of broken old amphoræ
built into walls.

Along the whole coast-line from Kosseir to Sawakin one may say that there
are no permanent places of residence, if we except the tiny Egyptian
military stations, with their fort and huts for the soldiers, at Halaib,
Mohammed Gol, and Darour; it is practically desert all the way,
and is only visited by the nomad Ababdeh and Bisharin tribes, when,
after the rains, they can obtain there a scanty pasturage for their
flocks.

During the Ptolemaic and early Arab periods the condition of affairs
was very different; several considerable towns stood on this coast, now
marked only by heaps of sand and a few fallen walls. In spite of its
aridity, this coast has a wonderful charm of its own; its lofty,
deeply serrated mountains are a perpetual joy to look upon, and the
sunset effects were unspeakably glorious, rich in every conceivable
colour, and throwing out the sharp outline of the pointed peaks against
the crimson sky.

The nature of this coast-line is singularly uniform, and offers tremendous
obstacles to navigation, owing to the great belt of coral reefs along
it, through which the passage was often barely wide enough for our dhow
to pass, and against which on more than one occasion we came in
unpleasant contact.

The bay of Berenice, for example, was for this reason known in ancient
times as akathartos kolpos, and is still known as 'Foul Bay'; it can
only be navigated with the greatest care by native pilots accustomed
to the various aspects of the water, which in many places only just
covers the treacherous reefs. All boats are obliged to anchor during the
night either just inside the reefs or in the numerous coves along the
coast, which are caused by the percolations of fresh water through
the sandbeds of rivers into the sea, and these prevent the coral
insect from erecting its continuous wall.

The rapidly succeeding little harbours formed in the coral reef are
called _mersa_, or anchorage, by the Arabs, from _mersat_, anchor.

Sometimes when the coral reef rises above the surface low islets have
been formed, with sandy surface and a scant marine vegetation. By one
of these, named Siyal, we were anchored for a night, and on landing
we found it about three miles in length, some 50 feet in width, and never
more than 4 feet above the surface of the sea. On its eastern side the
shore was strewn with cinders from the numerous steamers which ply
the Red Sea, and quantities of straw cases for bottles, out of which
the ospreys, which live here in large numbers, have built their nests.
Turtles revel in the sand, and corals of lovely colours line the beach,
and at one extremity of the islet we found the remains of a holy
sheikh's hut, with his grave hard by. Many such holy men dwell on
promontories and on remote island rocks along this coast in
sanctified seclusion, and they are regularly supported by the Bedouin
and pearl-fishers, who bring them food and water, neither of which
commodities is to be found in such localities.

Our sailors on New Year's Eve took a handsome present of bread and candles,
presented to them by us, to a holy man who dwelt on the extreme point
of Ras Bernas, and had a long gossip with him concerning what boats
had passed that way and the prospects of trade--_i.e._ the slave trade--in
these desert regions. They burnt incense before his shrine, and the captain
devoutly said his evening prayer, whilst he of the tom-tom, Ahmet
Faraj, stood behind and mimicked him, to the great amusement of his
fellows--a piece of irreverence I have never seen before in any
Mohammedan country. Still I think our sailors were as a whole
religious; they observed their fasts and prayers most regularly
during Ramazan, and their only idea of time was regulated by the five
prayers. 'We shall start to-morrow at "God is great," and anchor at the
evening prayer,' and so forth, they used to say.

It is difficult to estimate how far these coral reefs have changed since
ancient days; there is a lagoon at Berenice which looks as if it
had been the ancient harbour with a fort at its extremity.

Now there are scarcely two feet of water over the bar across its mouth;
but all ancient accounts bear testimony to a similar difficulty of
navigation down this coast. At the same time, it is manifest that this
coast-line is just the one to have tempted on the early mariners from
point to point, with its rapid succession of tiny harbours and its
reefs protecting it from heavy seas.

More especially must this have been the case when the boats were propelled
by oars, and in one's mind's eye one can picture the fleets of the
Egyptian Queen Hatasou and of King Solomon from Eziongeber creeping
cautiously along this coast and returning after three years' absence
in far distant regions laden with precious freights of gold, frankincense,
and spices. In later days Strabo and Pliny tell us how flotillas of 120
ships proceeded from Myos Hormos to Okelis in thirty days on their way
to India, going together for fear of the pirates who marauded
this coast, and in those days the settlements on the Red Sea must have
presented a far livelier aspect than they do now.

On both shores we find a curious instance of the migration and adaptation
of an entirely foreign kind of boat. Some Arabs who have lived in
Singapore--and Singapore is as favourite a point for Arab emigration as
America is for the Irish--introduced 'dug-outs' in their native harbours,
and these have been found so useful in sailing over the shallow coral
reefs in search of pearls, that they now swarm in every Red Sea port,
and steamer-loads of 'dug-outs' are brought from the Malay peninsula.
The Arabs call them 'houris'--why, I cannot think--for a more
uncomfortable thing to sit in, when half full of water in a rolling
surf, I never found elsewhere, except on a South-East African river.

At the present moment the coast below Ras Bernas and above Sawakin is
the hot-bed of the slave trade, carried on between the Dervishes of
the Nile Valley and Arabia. Regular Egyptian coastguard boats keep matters
pretty clear north of Ras Bernas, and we can testify to their
activity, for we ourselves were boarded and searched by one; but south
of this, before the influence of Sawakin is reached, there is a long
stretch of country where the traffic in human flesh can be carried
on undisturbed. Troops of slaves are sent down from the Nile valley to
the Dervish country at certain seasons of the year, and the petty
sheikhs along the coast, owing a doubtful allegiance to the Egyptian
Government, connive at this transport; and the pearl-fishing craft
which ply their trade amongst the coral reefs are always ready to
carry the slaves across to the opposite coast, where the markets
of Yembo, Jeddah, and Hodeida are open to them.
This will, of course, be the case until the Dervish power is crushed,
and the Soudan opened out for more legitimate trade. As we sailed
along we passed hundreds of these pearl-fishing boats engaged in
this dual trade, and nothing could be more propitious for their
pursuits than the absolutely lawless condition of the tribes by the
coast. At Berenice, for instance, there are absolutely no government
or inhabitants of any sort.
Nominally, one of our Nile frontier subsidised sheikhs, Beshir Bey
Gabran, of Assouan, has authority over all the country between the
Nile and the Red Sea, but the coast has been visited more frequently
by Dervish emirs than by Beshir Bey. One Nasrai, a Dervish emir,
is said to have resided in the mountains behind Berenice for some
time past, and, with a small following, collects tithes of cattle
from the nomads and sees to the safe conduct of slave caravans. The
collecting of _yusur_, or black coral, as they call it, a fossilised
vegetable growth, is a third trade in which these boats are employed.
From this pipes are made, and beads, and the black veneer for
inlaying tables.
The navigation of an Arab dhow is no easy task, with its clumsy
arrangements for sails, when there is a strong north wind behind
it and reefs in every direction. Three men are perpetually in the
bows on the look out for rocks, and indicate the presence of danger
to the steersman by raising their hands. The gear of these boats
is exceedingly primitive. They do not understand reefing a sail,
hence they are obliged to have no less than five different sizes,
which they are constantly changing as occasion requires.Thence he raided the Pindus
chain of mountains, plundered a great number of villages, and returned
to Tepelen, richer and consequently more esteemed than ever.

He employed his fortune and influence in collecting a formidable
guerilla force, and resumed his plundering operations. Kurd Pacha soon
found himself compelled, by the universal outcry of the province, to
take active measures against this young brigand. He sent against him a
division of troops, which defeated him and brought him prisoner with
his men to Berat, the capital of Central Albania and residence of the
governor. The country flattered itself that at length it was freed from
its scourge. The whole body of bandits was condemned to death; but
Ali was not the man to surrender his life so easily. Whilst they were
hanging his comrades, he threw himself at the feet of the pacha and
begged for mercy in the name of his parents, excusing himself on account
of his youth, and promising a lasting reform. The pacha, seeing at his
feet a comely youth, with fair hair and blue eyes, a persuasive voice,
and eloquent tongue, and in whose veins flowed the same blood as his
own, was moved with pity and pardoned him. Ali got off with a mild
captivity in the palace of his powerful relative, who heaped benefits
upon him, and did all he could to lead him into the paths of probity. He
appeared amenable to these good influences, and bitterly to repent his
past errors. After some years, believing in his reformation, and moved
by the prayers of Kamco, who incessantly implored the restitution of her
dear son, the generous pacha restored him his liberty, only giving him
to understand that he had no more mercy to expect if he again disturbed
the public peace. Ali taking the threat seriously did not run the risk
of braving it, and, on the contrary, did all he could to conciliate the
man whose anger he dared not kindle. Not only did he keep the promise he
had made to live quietly, but by his good conduct he caused his former
escapades to be forgotten, putting under obligation all his neighbours,
and attaching to himself, through the services he rendered them, a great
number of friendly disposed persons. In this manner he soon assumed a
distinguished and honourable rank among the beys of the country, and
being of marriageable age, he sought and formed an alliance with
the daughter of Capelan Tigre, Pacha of Delvino, who resided at
Argyro-Castron. This union, happy on both sides, gave him, with one
of the most accomplished women in Epirus, a high position and great
influence.

It seemed as if this marriage were destined to wean Ali forever from his
former turbulent habits and wild adventures. But the family into which
he had married afforded violent contrasts and equal elements of good and
mischief. If Emineh, his wife, was a model of virtue, his father-in-law,
Capelan, was a composition of every vice--selfish, ambitious, turbulent,
fierce. Confident in his courage, and further emboldened by his
remoteness from the capital, the Pacha of Delvino gloried in setting law
and authority at defiance.

Ali's disposition was too much like that of his father-in-law to prevent
him from taking his measure very quickly. He soon got on good terms
with him, and entered into his schemes, waiting for an opportunity to
denounce him and become his successor. For this opportunity he had not
long to wait.

Capelan's object in giving his daughter to Tepeleni was to enlist him
among the beys of the province to gain independence, the ruling passion
of viziers. The cunning young man pretended to enter into the views of
his father-in-law, and did all he could to urge him into the path of
rebellion.

An adventurer named Stephano Piccolo, an emissary of Russia, had just
raised in Albania the standard of the Cross and called to arms all the
Christians of the Acroceraunian Mountains. The Divan sent orders to all
the pachas of Northern Turkey in Europe to instantly march against the
insurgents and quell the rising in blood.

Instead of obeying the orders of the Divan and joining Kurd Pacha, who
had summoned him, Capelan, at the instigation of his son-in-law, did all
he could to embarrass the movement of the imperial troops, and without
openly making common cause with the insurgents, he rendered them
substantial aid in their resistance. They were, notwithstanding,
conquered and dispersed; and their chief, Stephano Piccolo, had to take
refuge in the unexplored caves of Montenegro.

When the struggle was over, Capelan, as Ali had foreseen, was summoned
to give an account of his conduct before the roumeli-valicy, supreme
judge over Turkey in Europe. He was not only accused of the gravest
offences, but proofs of them were forwarded to the Divan by the very man
who had instigated them. There could be no doubt as to the result of the
inquiry; therefore, the pacha, who had no suspicions of his son-in-law's
duplicity, determined not to leave his pachalik. That was not in
accordance with the plans of Ali, who wished to succeed to both the
government and the wealth of his father-in-law. He accordingly made the
most plausible remonstrances against the inefficacy and danger of such a
resistance. To refuse to plead was tantamount to a confession of guilt,
and was certain to bring on his head a storm against which he was
powerless to cope, whilst if he obeyed the orders of the roumeli-valicy
he would find it easy to excuse himself. To give more effect to his
perfidious advice, Ali further employed the innocent Emineh, who was
easily alarmed on her father's account. Overcome by the reasoning of
his son-in-law and the tears of his daughter, the unfortunate pacha
consented to go to Monastir, where he had been summoned to appear, and
where he was immediately arrested and beheaded.

Ali's schemes had succeeded, but both his ambition and his cupidity were
frustrated. Ali, Bey of Argyro-Castron, who had throughout shown himself
devoted to the sultan, was nominated Pacha of Delvino in place of
Capelan. He sequestered all the property of his predecessor, as
confiscated to the sultan, and thus deprived Ali Tepeleni of all the
fruits of his crime.

This disappointment kindled the wrath of the ambitious Ali. He swore
vengeance for the spoliation of which he considered himself the victim.
But the moment was not favourable for putting his projects in train.
The murder of Capelan, which its perpetrator intended for a mere crime,
proved a huge blunder. Moreover, they lay very great stress on the fact
that things are more noble and more perfect in proportion as they approach
more nearly to the truth, and they say that sculpture imitates the true
form and shows its works on every side and from every point of view,
whereas painting, being laid on flat with most simple strokes of the
brush and having but one light, shows but one aspect; and many of them
do not scruple to say that sculpture is as much superior to painting
as is truth to falsehood. But as their last and strongest argument,
they allege that for the sculptor there is necessary a perfection of
judgment not only ordinary, as for the painter, but absolute and
immediate, in a manner that it may see within the marble the exact
whole of that figure which they intend to carve from it, and may
be able to make many parts perfect without any other model before
it combines and unites them together, as Michelagnolo has done
divinely well; although, for lack of this happiness of judgment,
they make easily and often some of those blunders which have no
remedy, and which, when made, bear witness for ever to the slips
of the chisel or to the small judgment of the sculptor.

This never happens to painters, for the reason that at every slip of
the brush or error of judgment that might befall them they have
time, recognizing it themselves or being told by others, to cover and
patch it up with the very brush that made it; which brush, in their hands,
has this advantage over the sculptor's chisels, that it not only heals,
as did the iron of the spear of Achilles, but leaves its wounds
without a scar.

To these things the painters, answering not without disdain, say,
in the first place, that if the sculptors wish to discuss the matter
on the ground of the Scriptures the chief nobility is their own,
and that the sculptors deceive themselves very grievously in claiming
as their work the statue of our first father, which was made of
earth; for the art of this performance, both in its putting on and
in its taking off, belongs no less to the painters than to others,
and was called "plastice" by the Greeks and "fictoria" by the Latins,
and was judged by Praxiteles to be the mother of sculpture, of
casting, and of chasing, a fact which makes sculpture, in truth,
the niece of painting, seeing that "plastice" and painting are born
at one and the same moment from design.

And they say that if we consider it apart from the Scriptures, the
opinions of the ages are so many and so varied that it is difficult
to believe one more than the other; and that finally, considering this
nobility as they wish it, in one place they lose and in the other
they do not win, as may be seen more clearly in the Preface to
the Lives.

After this, in comparison with the arts related and subordinate to
sculpture, they say that they have many more than the sculptors,
because painting embraces the invention of history, the most difficult
art of foreshortening, all the branches of architecture needful for
the making of buildings, perspective, colouring in distemper, and
the art of working in fresco, an art different and distinct from
all the others; likewise working in oils on wood, on stone, and on
canvas; illumination, too, an art different from all the others;
the staining of glass, mosaics in glass, the art of inlaying and
making pictures with coloured woods, which is painting; making
sgraffito[2] work on houses with iron tools; niello[3] work and
printing from copper, both members of painting; goldsmith's enamelling,
and the inlaying of gold for damascening; the painting of glazed
figures, and the making on earthenware vessels of scenes and figures
to resist the action of water; weaving brocades with figures and
flowers, and that most beautiful invention, woven tapestries, that
are both convenient and magnificent, being able to carry painting
into every place, whether savage or civilized; not to mention that
in every department of art that has to be practised, design, which
is our design, is used by all; so that the members of painting are
more numerous and more useful than those of sculpture.

They do not deny the eternity, for so the others call it, of sculpture,
but they say that this is no privilege that should make the art more
noble than it is by nature, seeing that it comes simply from the
material, and that if length of life were to give nobility to souls,
the pine, among the plants, and the stag, among the animals, would
have a soul more noble beyond compare than that of men; although they
could claim a similar immortality and nobility in their mosaics,
seeing that there may be seen some as ancient as the most ancient
sculptures that are in Rome, and that they used to be made of jewels and
fine stones.
And as for their small or smaller number, they declare that this is not
because the art calls for a better habit of body and greater judgment,
but that it depends wholly on the poverty of their resources and on the
little favour, or avarice, as we would rather call it, of rich men,
who give them no supply of marble and no opportunity to work; in contrast
with what may be believed, nay, seen to have happened in ancient
times, when sculpture rose to its greatest height.

Indeed, it is manifest that he who cannot use and waste a small quantity
of marble and hard stone, which are very costly, cannot have that practice
in the art that is essential; he who does not practise does not
learn it; and he who does not learn it can do no good. Wherefore they
should rather excuse with these arguments the imperfection and the
small number of their masters, than seek to deduce nobility from
them under false colours.

As for the higher prices of sculptures, they answer that, although
theirs might be much less, they have not to share them, being content
with a boy who grinds their colours and hands them their brushes or their
cheap stools, whereas the sculptors, besides the great cost of their
material, require many aids and spend more time on one single figure
than they themselves do on very many; wherefore their prices appear to
come from the quality and the durability of the material itself,
from the aids that it requires for its completion, and from the time
that is taken in working it, rather than from the excellence of the
art itself. And although that does not suffice and no greater price
is found, as would be easily seen by anyone who were willing to consider
it diligently, let them find a greater price than the marvellous,
beautiful, and living gift that Alexander the Great made in return
for the most splendid and excellent work of Apelles, bestowing on
him, not vast treasures or high estate, but his own beloved and most
beautiful Campaspe; let them observe, in addition, that Alexander was
young, enamoured of her, and naturally subject to the passions of love,
and also both a King and a Greek; and then, from this, let them
draw what conclusion they please.

As for the loves of Pygmalion and of those other rascals no more worthy
to be men, cited as proof of the nobility of the art, they know not what
to answer, if, from a very great blindness of intellect and from a
licentiousness unbridled beyond all natural bounds, there can be
made a proof of nobility. As for the man, whosoever he was, alleged
by the sculptors to have made sculpture of gold and painting of silver,
they are agreed that if he had given as much sign of judgment as of wealth,
there would be no disputing it; and finally, they conclude that the
ancient Golden Fleece, however celebrated it may be, none the less
covered nothing but an unintelligent ram; wherefore neither the
testimony of riches nor that of dishonest desires, but those of
letters, of practice, of excellence, and of judgment are those to
which we must pay attention.

Nor do they make any answer to the difficulty of obtaining the marbles
and the metals, save this, that it springs from their own poverty and
from the little favour of the powerful, as has been said, and not from
any degree of greater nobility. To the extreme fatigues of the body and
to the dangers peculiar to them and to their works, laughing and
without any ado they answer that if greater fatigues and dangers prove
greater nobility, the art of quarrying the marbles from the bowels
of mountains by means of wedges, levers, and hammers must be more noble
than sculpture, that of the blacksmith must surpass the goldsmith's,
and that of masonry must be superior to architecture.

They say, next, that the true difficulties lie rather in the mind
than in the body, wherefore those things that from their nature
call for more study and knowledge are more noble and excellent than
those that avail themselves rather of strength of body; and they
declare that since the painters rely more on the worth of the mind
than the others, this highest honour belongs to painting.

For the sculptors the compasses and squares suffice to discover and
apply all the proportions and measurements whereof they have need; for
the painters there is necessary, besides the knowledge how to make good
use of the aforesaid instruments, an accurate understanding of
perspective, for the reason that they have to provide a thousand other
things beyond landscapes and buildings, not to mention that they must
have greater judgment by reason of the quantity of the figures in one
scene, wherein more errors can come than in a single statue. For the
sculptor it is enough to be acquainted with the true forms and features
of solid and tangible bodies, subordinate on every side to the touch,
and moreover of those only that have something to support them. For the
painter it is necessary to know the forms not only of all the
bodies supported and not supported, but also of all those transparent
and intangible; and besides this they must know the colours that
are suitable for the said bodies, whereof the multitude and the
variety, so absolute and admitting of such infinite extension, are
demonstrated better by the flowers, the fruits, and the minerals
than by anything else; and this knowledge is supremely difficult
to acquire and to maintain, by reason of their infinite variety.

They say, moreover, that whereas sculpture, through the stubbornness
and the imperfection of the material, does not represent the emotions
of the soul save with motion, which does not, however, find much scope
therein, and with the mere shape of the limbs and not even of all
these; the painters demonstrate them with all the forms of motion, which
are infinite, with the shape of the limbs, however subtle they may
be, and even with breath itself and the spiritual essence of sight;
and that, for greater perfection in demonstrating not only the passions
and emotions of the soul but also the events of the future, as living
men do, they must have, besides long practice in the art, a complete
understanding of physiognomy, whereof that part suffices for the
sculptor which deals with the quantity and the quality of the
members, without troubling about the quality of colours, as to the
knowledge of which anyone who judges by the eye knows how useful
and necessary it is for the true imitation of nature, whereunto the
closer a man approaches the more perfect he is.

After this they add that whereas sculpture, taking away bit by
bit, at one and the same time gives depth to and acquires relief for those
things that have solidity by their own nature, and makes use of touch
and sight, the painters, in two distinct actions, give relief and
depth to a flat surface with the help of one single sense; and this,
when it has been done by a person intelligent in the art, has caused
many great men, not to speak of animals, to stand fast in the most
pleasing illusion, which has never been seen to be done by sculpture, for
the reason that it does not imitate nature in a manner that may be
called as perfect as their own. And finally, in answer to that
complete and absolute perfection of judgment which is required
for sculpture, by reason of its having no means to add where it takes
away; declaring, first, that such mistakes are irreparable, as the
others say, and not to be remedied save by patches, which, even as
in garments they are signs of poverty of wardrobe, so too both
in sculpture and in pictures are signs of poverty of intellect and
judgment; and saying, further, that patience, at its own leisure, by means
of models, protractors, squares, compasses, and a thousand other
devices and instruments for enlarging, not only preserves them from
mistakes but enables them to bring their whole work to its perfection;
they conclude, then, that this difficulty which they put down as
the greater is nothing or little when compared to those which the
painters have when working in fresco, and that the said perfection
of judgment is in no way more necessary for sculptors than for
painters, it being sufficient for the former to execute good models
in wax, clay, or something else, even as the latter make their
drawings on corresponding materials or on cartoons; and that finally,
the quality that little by little transfers their models to the
marble is rather patience than aught else.

But let us consider about judgment, as the sculptors wish, and see
whether it is not more necessary to one who works in fresco than to one
who chisels in marble. For here not only is there no place for patience
or for time, which are most mortal enemies to the union of the plaster
and the colours, but the eye does not see the true colours until the
plaster is well dry, nor can the hand judge of anything but of the soft
or the dry, in a manner that anyone who were to call it working
in the dark, or with spectacles of colours different from the truth,
would not in my belief be very far wrong.

Nay, I do not doubt at all that such a name is more suitable for it
than for intaglio, for which wax serves as spectacles both true and
good. They say, too, that for this work it is necessary to have a resolute
judgment, to foresee the end in the fresh plaster and how the
work will turn out on the dry; besides that the work cannot be
abandoned so long as the plaster is still fresh, and that it is necessary
to do resolutely in one day what sculpture does in a month.
And if a man has not this judgment and this excellence, there are seen,
on the completion of his work or in time, patches, blotches,
corrections, and colours superimposed or retouched on the dry, which is
something of the vilest, because afterwards mould appears and reveals
the insufficiency and the small knowledge of the craftsmen, even as
the pieces added in sculpture lead to ugliness; not to mention that
when it comes about that the figures in fresco are washed, as is often
done after some time to restore them, what has been worked on the fresh
plaster remains, and what has been retouched on the dry is carried
away by the wet sponge.

They add, moreover, that whereas the sculptors make two figures together,
or at the most three, from one block of marble, they make many of
them on one single panel, with all those so many and so varied
aspects which the sculptors claim for one single statue, compensating
with the variety of their postures, foreshortenings, and attitudes,
for the fact that the work of the sculptors can be seen from every
side; even as Giorgione da Castelfranco did once in one of his
pictures, wherein a figure with its back turned, having a mirror
on either side, and a pool of water at its feet, shows its back in
the painting, its front in the pool, and its sides in the mirrors,
which is something that sculpture has never been able to do.

In addition to this, they maintain that painting leaves not one of the
elements unadorned and not abounding with all the excellent things that
nature has bestowed on them, giving its own light and its own darkness
to the air, with all its varieties of feeling, and filling it with all
the kinds of birds together; to water, its clearness, the fishes, the
mosses, the foam, the undulations of the waves, the ships, and all its
various moods; and to the earth, the mountains, the plains, the plants,
the fruits, the flowers, the animals, and the buildings; with so great a
multitude of things and so great a variety of their forms and of their
true colours, that nature herself many a time stands in a marvel thereat;
and finally, giving to fire so much of its heat and light that it is
clearly seen burning things, and, almost quivering with its flames,
rendering luminous in part the thickest darkness of the night.

Wherefore it appears to them that they can justly conclude and declare
that contrasting the difficulties of the sculptors with their own, the
labours of the body with those of the mind, the imitation of the
mere form with the imitation of the impression, both of quantity
and of quality, that strikes the eye, the small number of the
subjects wherein sculpture can and does demonstrate its excellence
with the infinite number of those which painting presents to us
(not to mention the perfect preservation of them for the intellect
and the distribution of them in those places wherein nature herself
has not done so); and finally, weighing the whole content of the
one with that of the other, the nobility of sculpture, as shown by
the intellect, the invention, and the judgment of its craftsmen,
does not correspond by a great measure to that which painting enjoys
and deserves.

Now a pilgrim can only be
sent as proxy to Mecca, or offerings be made at the tomb of Medina, at
the expense of legitimately acquired property duly sold for the purpose.
The brother and sister made a careful examination of the family estates,
and after long hunting, thought they had found the correct thing in a
small property of about fifteen hundred francs income, inherited from
their great-grandfather, founder of the Tepel-Enian dynasty. But further
investigations disclosed that even this last resource had been forcibly
taken from a Christian, and the idea of a pious pilgrimage and a
sacred offering had to be given up. They then agreed to atone for the
impossibility of expiation by the grandeur of their vengeance, and swore
to pursue without ceasing and to destroy without mercy all enemies of
their family.

The best mode of carrying out this terrible and self-given pledge was
that Ali should resume his plans of aggrandizement exactly where he had
left them. He succeeded in acquiring the pachalik of Janina, which was
granted him by the Porte under the title of "arpalik," or conquest. It
was an old custom, natural to the warlike habits of the Turks, to bestow
the Government provinces or towns affecting to despise the authority
of the Grand Seigneur or whomsoever succeeded in controlling them,
and Janina occupied this position. It was principally inhabited by
Albanians, who had an enthusiastic admiration for anarchy, dignified by
them with the name of "Liberty," and who thought themselves independent
in proportion to the disturbance they succeeded in making. Each lived
retired as if in a mountain castle, and only went out in order to
participate in the quarrels of his faction in the forum. As for the
pachas, they were relegated to the old castle on the lake, and there was
no difficulty in obtaining their recall.

Consequently there was a general outcry at the news of Ali Pacha's
nomination, and it was unanimously agreed that a man whose character
and power were alike dreaded must not be admitted within the walls of
Janina. Ali, not choosing to risk his forces in an open battle with a
warlike population, and preferring a slower and safer way to a short and
dangerous one, began by pillaging the villages and farms belonging to
his most powerful opponents. His tactics succeeded, and the very persons
who had been foremost in vowing hatred to the son of Kamco and who had
sworn most loudly that they would die rather than submit to the tyrant,
seeing their property daily ravaged, and impending ruin if hostilities
continued, applied themselves to procure peace. Messengers were sent
secretly to Ali, offering to admit him into Janina if he would undertake
to respect the lives and property of his new allies. Ali promised
whatever they asked, and entered the town by night. His first proceeding
was to appear before the cadi, whom he compelled to register and
proclaim his firmans of investiture.

In the same year in which he arrived at this dignity, really the desire
and object of Ali's whole life, occurred also the death of the Sultan
Abdul Hamid, whose two sons, Mustapha and Mahmoud, were confined in the
Old Seraglio. This change of rulers, however, made no difference to Ali;
the peaceful Selim, exchanging the prison to which his nephews were now
relegated, for the throne of their father, confirmed the Pacha of Janina
in the titles, offices, and privileges which had been conferred on him.

Established in his position by this double investiture, Ali applied
himself to the definite settlement of his claims. He was now fifty
years of age, and was at the height of his intellectual development:
experience had been his teacher, and the lesson of no single event
had been lost upon him. An uncultivated but just and penetrating mind
enabled him to comprehend facts, analyse causes, and anticipate results;
and as his heart never interfered with the deductions of his rough
intelligence, he had by a sort of logical sequence formulated an
inflexible plan of action. This man, wholly ignorant, not only of the
ideas of history but also of the great names of Europe, had succeeded
in divining, and as a natural consequence of his active and practical
character, in also realising Macchiavelli, as is amply shown in the
expansion of his greatness and the exercise of his power. Without faith
in God, despising men, loving and thinking only of himself, distrusting
all around him, audacious in design, immovable in resolution, inexorable
in execution, merciless in vengeance, by turns insolent, humble,
violent, or supple according to circumstances, always and entirely
logical in his egotism, he is Cesar Borgia reborn as a Mussulman; he is
the incarnate ideal of Florentine policy, the Italian prince converted
into a satrap.

Age had as yet in no way impaired Ali's strength and activity, and
nothing prevented his profiting by the advantages of his position.
It is built on rising ground in the middle of the narrowest part of
the valley, so that no one can pass between it and the cliffs of the
valley out of gunshot of the walls. This rising ground has
doubtless been produced by many successions of towns built of
sun-dried bricks, for it is the best strategical point in the
neighbourhood.

Early Arab writers tell us that the Himyaritic population of this
district came here when they abandoned Shabwa, early in the Christian
era.

We succeeded, however, in finding evident traces of an occupation of
earlier date than this, both in a seal, which is described further
on, and in an inscription in which the name Shibahm occurs, and which
certainly dates from the third century b.c. Even if Shibahm were not
the site of the original capital it must always, centuries before
our era, have been a place of considerable importance as the centre
of the frankincense trade, for here must have been made up the caravans
which brought the spices westward by the great frankincense road across
Arabia.
The caravans take twenty-five days on the journey to Saihut, and five to
Makalla; they go also to Nejd, but we could not find out how long they
take.

Shibahm is now the property of the sultan of Makalla, but was administered
by his cousin Salàh, who received 40,000 rupees a year for the purpose.
It is now three hundred years since these Yafei left their old home
and came to settle in the Hadhramout. They were then a wild predatory
race, plundering caravans; now they have become peaceable and rich.
They still remain close friends with the Yafei farther west, but
are quite independent of them. It is the maintenance of a residence
for the Nizam of Hyderabad, and their constant communication
with India, that has doubtless made all the difference between the
Yafei tribe and others.
Building seems to have been their mania. The sultan of Shibahm has numbers
of houses at Al Koton and Shibahm, and he was intending to spend 20,000
rupees in rebuilding his father's house, for the castle at Al
Koton is not his own but Government property, and the strip of land
across the valley, part of it sandy, goes with it.

He was buying up land for himself in the Wadi Al Ain and elsewhere.
He told us his father left eleven million rupees to divide among his
numerous progeny.

Relationships in that family must be a trifle confused. Manassar of
Makalla had married two sisters (both now dead) of his cousin Salàh.
Salàh had married two of Manassar's sisters.

A daughter of Salàh's married Manassar, and another of them was married
to one of Manassar's sons, and Manassar's brother Hussein of Sheher
married, or was married to, a third daughter of Salàh. Apparently the
same complications existed in the generation before this, but into
them it is impossible to go. As in India, the favourite marriage that a
man can make is to marry his 'uncle's daughter.' Possibly the fact that
property goes from brother to brother till a whole generation is dead,
instead of from father to son, has something to do with this arrangement.

The town of Shibahm offers a curious appearance as one approaches;
above its mud brick walls, with bastions and watch towers, appear the
tall houses of the wealthy, whitewashed only at the top, which
make it look like a large round cake with sugar on it.

Outside the walls several industries are carried on, the chief of which
is the manufacture of indigo dye. The small leaves are dried in the
sun and powdered, and then put into huge jars and filled with water.
Next morning these are stirred with long poles, producing a dark-blue
frothy mixture; this is left to settle, and then the indigo is taken
from the bottom and spread out on cloths to drain; the substance
thus procured is taken home and mixed with dates and saltpetre. Four
pounds of this indigo to a gallon of water makes the requisite and
universally used dye for garments, the better class of which are calendered
by beating them with wooden hammers on stones. This noise was a great
mystery to us till we traced our way to it and found out what it was.
They used also to beat the dried leaf of a kind of acacia called _kharrad_,
and, when pounded, make of it a paste which has a beautiful pea-green
appearance; it is used for giving a polish to leather.

[Illustration: A SABÆAN ALTAR]
Another industry carried on outside Shibahm is rope-making out of the
fibres of the fan palm (_saap_) which grows wild in the narrower valleys;
the leaves are first left to soak in water, and then beaten till
the fibres separate.

Yet another is that of making lime for whitewash kilns--it is curious
to watch the Bedouin beating the lime thus produced with long sticks,
singing quaint little ditties as they thump, in pleasant harmony to the
beating of their sticks.

We entered the town by some very sloping steps, which led through the
gateway, passing some wells and the indigo dyers outside; also some
horrible pools where they had put the little fish that the camels
eat, to drain the oil from them. We entered a sort of square, having
the castle on the right-hand side and a ruined mosque in front of us.
This huge castle was built by the grandfather of the Sultan Manassar,
sultan of Makalla, but, owing to some difference about his wives,
he left the two topmost stories unfinished.

No one lives in it, so we had the whole of this immense pile of buildings
to ourselves. It belongs to Manassar. It is larger than Al Koton by
far, and that is also exceeded in size by Haura. It is a most imposing
structure and much more florid than the others. The gateway is a masterpiece
of carving in intricate patterns. On entering this you turn sharp to
the right up a shallow staircase, protected from without, but exposed
to fire from the inmates of the castle. The pillars in the lofty
rooms are beautifully carved.

All the windows are filled with pretty fretwork; bolts, doors, and
window frames are also carved. The huge doors are carved on one side
only, the outer one, and inside they are rough and ill-grained
and splashed with whitewash. There are pretty dado patterns round the
walls; and the staircase, as in the other castles, has numerous doors
for defence, usually put in the middle of the flights. Shooting-holes
are in every direction. We established ourselves in a room about 30
feet by 25 feet, and used to go up and dine in one of the unfinished
rooms at the top where there was a little bit of roof and where the
cooking was done.

We generally thought it wise to dine in our grill-room, in order to have
our food hot. We all greatly enjoyed the works of our own cooks,
provisions being supplied to us.

We overlooked a huge puddle into which the surrounding houses drain, and
it is a proof of the scarcity of water in this part of Arabia, that
they carefully carry this filthy fluid away in skins to make bricks
with, even scraping up the remaining drops in the pool with their hands.
In fact, it scarcely ever rains in the Hadhramout.

From the roof of our lofty castle we had an excellent view straight down
the broad Hadhramout valley, dotted with towns, villages, palm groves,
and cultivation for fully thirty miles, embracing the two towns of
Siwoun and Terim, ruled over by the two brother sultans of the Kattiri
tribe.
Close to Shibahm several collateral valleys from north and south fall
into the Hadhramout, and a glance at the map made by our chartographer,
Imam Sharif, Khan Bahadur, will at once show the importance of this
situation.

Shibahm is the frontier town of the Yafei tribe, the Kattiri occupying
the valley about two miles to the east, and these two tribes
are constantly at war. Sultan Salàh's big standard was in one of our
dwelling-rooms ready to be unfurled at a moment's notice. He has cannons
on his walls pointed in the direction of his enemy--old cannons
belonging to the East India Company, the youngest of which bore the
date of 1832.
From the soldiers we obtained a specimen of the great conch shells
that they use as trumpets in battle, and which are hung to the girdle of
the watchmen, who are always on the look-out to prevent a surprise.

The Kattiri are not allowed to stay in the town at night, for we heard
that seven months before some of them were detected in an attempt to
blow up the palace with gunpowder. There was a fight also, about a quarter
of a mile outside the town, in which five Kattiri and seven Yafei
were killed. There are three or four armed soldiers to protect Shibahm,
the sultan has erected bastions and forts all about it, and the walls are
patrolled every night.

There are many ruined houses in the plain, relics of the great war forty
years ago, when the Kattiri advanced as far as Al Koton and did great
damage. The sultan of Siwoun was invited, with seven sheikhs, to
the palace of Shibahm on friendly terms and there murdered in cold
blood, while forty of his followers were killed outside.

The inhabitants of Shibahm were not at all friendly disposed to us. On the
day of our arrival my husband ventured with two of the sultan's
soldiers into the bazaar, and through the narrow streets; but only
this once, for the people crowded round him, yelled at him, and insulted
him, trying their best to trip him up and impede his progress; he was
nearly suffocated by the clouds of filthy dust that the mob kicked up,
and altogether they made his investigations so exceedingly disagreeable
that he became seriously alarmed for his safety, and never tried to
penetrate into the heart of Shibahm again.

On the whole I should accredit Shibahm with a population of certainly not
less than six thousand souls: there are thirteen mosques in it, and fully
six hundred houses, tall and gaunt, to which an average population of
ten souls is but a moderate estimate.
The slave population of Shibahm is considerable; many slaves have houses
there, and wives and families of their own. The sultan's soldiers are
nearly all slaves or of slave origin, and one of them, Muoffok, whose
grandfather was a Swahili slave, and who had been one of our escort
from Makalla, took us to his house, where his wife, seated unveiled
in her coffee corner, dispensed refreshments to quite a large party
there assembled, whilst Muoffok discoursed sweet music to us on a
mandoline, and a flute made out of the two bones of an eagle placed
side by side.

Taisir and Aboud were also abiding in Shibahm. Taisir when he met
us, on the minute asked for bakhshish, saying he had been ill when we
parted and had had none though we had sent it to him. Oh! there was
such kissing of hands! so we thought it politic to love our enemy and
gave him a present.
The Wazir Salim-bin-Ali had travelled with us to take care of us in
the absence of his master.

Once the Arabs had a good laugh at the expense of three members of our
party. One morning our botanist went forth in quest of plants and found
a castor-oil tree, the berries of which pleased him exceedingly. Unwilling
to keep so rare a treat for himself, he brought home some branches of
the tree, and placed the delicacy before two of our servants, Matthaios
and, I am glad to say, Saleh, who also partook heartily. Terrible was
the anguish of the two victims, which was increased by the Arabs,
veritable descendants of Job's comforters, who told them they were sure
to die, as camels did which ate these berries. The botanist did not
succumb as soon as the others, who, not believing he had eaten any
berries himself, vowed vengeance on his head if they should recover,
and demanded that, to prove his innocence, he should eat twelve
berries in their presence. To our great relief the botanist was at last
seized with sickness, and thereby proved his guiltlessness of a
practical joke; three more miserable men I never saw for the space
of several hours. However, they were better, though prostrate, next
day, and for some time to come the popular joke was to imitate the
noises and contortions of the sufferers during their anguish.

In consequence of the enmity manifested towards us we were even
debarred from walking in that interesting though smelly part, just
outside the town under the walls with the well, the brick-works,
the indigo, the oil-making, the many lime-kilns, the armourers, and
all the industrious people of the town.

We used to take the air on the roof in the evening; there were no
mosquitos, but we were never so persecuted with flies. Fortunately our
castle was near the wall, for to dwell in the narrow, tortuous,
dirty streets must be fearful--most likely the dust does much to
neutralise the evils of the defective drainage. The houses are very
high and narrow and built of mud brick (_kutcha_), which is constantly
though slowly powdering away. There are many houses in ruins.

We had two or three days of slight cold. The temperature was 62° (F.)
in the shade, and it was so cloudy that we expected rain, but none
came.

Saleh managed to get ten rupees from my husband, who refused any more,
though he brought a piece of cloth which he said he wished to buy
from the sultan.

The money was only wanted for gambling. He went to Imam Sharif and
said, 'How is this that Mr. Bent, who at first was like my brother, now
is quite changed?' Imam Sharif said, 'If he was kind to you when you
were a stranger, and now that he knows you is different, there must be
some reason for it.' 'What have I done?' 'You know best,' said Imam
Sharif, 'and I advise you to beg pardon.' Saleh exclaimed, 'And you,
who are a Moslem, take part against me with these Christians!' This
is the keynote of his conduct to us.

We rode two hours one day, without Saleh, to a place called Kamour, on the
southern side of the valley, where there is an inscribed stone at
the mouth of a narrow slit or gorge leading to the akaba. The words
thereon were painted light red, dark red, yellow, and black, and
scratched.

The decipherable words 'morning light' and 'offerings' point to this
having been a sacred stone when sun worship was prevalent. The letters
are well shaped, some letters being strange to us. The writing is
_boustrephedon_, which means that it runs backward and forward like
an unbroken serpent, each line being read in an opposite direction
to that preceding or following it.

There is no difficulty in seeing this at a glance, as the shapes of
the letters are reversed; for instance, if this occurred in English
the two loops of a B would be on the left, if the writing were to be read
in that direction, [Symbol: reverse B]. The Greek name comes from this
style of writing being originally likened to cattle wandering
about.
This at once relegates it, according to the best authorities, to
at least the third century before Christ, and we were forcibly
reminded of the large stone in the ruins of Zimbabwe and its similar
orientation.

We heard of a cave with an inscription in it in the Kattiri country,
about six miles off, almost in sight. We longed 'to dance on Tom
Tiddler's ground' and make a dash for it, but the forfeits we might
incur deterred us, being our lives. The wazir said he would try to
arrange for this, but that, even if the seyyids consented, we must take
forty soldiers, well armed, pay them as well as _siyar_ to the
Kattiri, pay the expenses of the _siyara_, and take as short a time
about the business as possible.

On the 27th we heard that some of the tribe of Al Jabber, descended
from Mohammed's great friend of that name, had passed Shibahm for
Al Koton to fetch us, but there was no news of the Minhali or of
the Tamimi.

It was said that the Jabberi could not take us over their highland, past
the Kattiri and into the Tamimi country, without consulting the Kattiri,
who sometimes help them in their wars. It must be remembered that
the Kattiri Bedouin were for us (no doubt in view of the payment
of _siyar_), while the seyyids and Arabs of that tribe at Siwoun,
and their friends at Terim, were against us.
I need not say we were weary of this indecision, so we sent a letter
to the sultan of Shibahm by a messenger saying, 'We have been here
three days; what are we to do next?' and planned that Imam Sharif
should ride over next day, as he could communicate 'mouth to mouth'
with the sultan in Hindustani.
We had one consolation in our imprisonment, for the seal of Yarsahal,
which has been mentioned before, was brought to us. The stone is
in brown and white stripes, and the setting is very pretty. It had
been in the bezel of a revolving ring. We began bargaining for it
at once, my husband offering ten rupees for the stone and ten for
the golden setting, but the seyyid who brought it said it was the
property of a man in Siwoun, who wished to keep it for his children,
and he must take it back to him. My husband said 'he should like
to look at it very quietly by himself and think over the stone,'
and therefore asked the seyyid to remain outside the door for a few
minutes. I quickly utilised this quiet time to make an impression
with sealing-wax, in case we never saw the seal again.Drunkenness was the specialty of the eldest, Mouktar,
who was without rival among the hard drinkers of Albania, and who
was reputed to have emptied a whole wine-skin in one evening after a
plentiful meal. Gifted with the hereditary violence of his family,
he had, in his drunken fury, slain several persons, among others his
sword-bearer, the companion of his childhood and confidential friend of
his whole life. Veli chose a different course. Realising the Marquis de
Sade, as his father had realised Macchiavelli, he delighted in mingling
together debauchery and cruelty, and his amusement consisted in biting
the lips he had kissed, and tearing with his nails the forms he had
caressed. The people of Janina saw with horror more than one woman in
their midst whose nose and ears he had caused to be cut off, and had
then turned into the streets.

It was indeed a reign of terror; neither fortune, life, honour, nor
family were safe. Mothers cursed their fruitfulness, and women their
beauty. Fear soon engenders corruption, and subjects are speedily
tainted by the depravity of their masters. Ali, considering a
demoralised race as easier to govern, looked on with satisfaction.

While he strengthened by every means his authority from within, he
missed no opportunity of extending his rule without. In 1803 he
declared war against the Suliots, whose independence he had frequently
endeavoured either to purchase or to overthrow. The army sent against
them, although ten thousand strong, was at first beaten everywhere. Ali
then, as usual, brought treason to his aid, and regained the advantage.
It became evident that, sooner or later, the unhappy Suliots must
succumb.

Foreseeing the horrors which their defeat would entail, Emineh, touched
with compassion, issued from her seclusion and cast herself at Ali's
feet. He raised her, seated her beside him, and inquired as to her
wishes. She spoke of generosity, of mercy; he listened as if touched and
wavering, until she named the Suliots. Then, filled with fury, he seized
a pistol and fired at her. She was not hurt, but fell to the ground
overcome with terror, and her women hastily intervened and carried her
away. For the first time in his life, perhaps, Ali shuddered before the
dread of a murder.

It was his wife, the mother of his children, whom he saw lying at his
feet, and the recollection afflicted and tormented him. He rose in the
night and went to Emineh's apartment; he knocked and called, but being
refused admittance, in his anger he broke open the door. Terrified by
the noise; and at the sight of her infuriated husband, Emineh fell into
violent convulsions, and shortly expired. Thus perished the daughter
of Capelan Pacha, wife of Ali Tepeleni, and mother of Mouktar and Veli,
who, doomed to live surrounded by evil, yet remained virtuous and good.

Her death caused universal mourning throughout Albania, and produced a
not less deep impression on the mind of her murderer. Emineh's spectre
pursued him in his pleasures, in the council chamber, in the hours of
night. He saw her, he heard her, and would awake, exclaiming, "my wife!
my wife!--It is my wife!--Her eyes are angry; she threatens me!--Save
me! Mercy!" For more than ten years Ali never dared to sleep alone.


CHAPTER IV

In December, the Suliots, decimated by battle, worn by famine,
discouraged by treachery, were obliged to capitulate. The treaty gave
them leave to go where they would, their own mountains excepted. The
unfortunate tribe divided into two parts, the one going towards Parga,
the other towards Prevesa. Ali gave orders for the destruction of both,
notwithstanding the treaty.

The Parga division was attacked in its march, and charged by a numerous
body of Skipetars. Its destruction seemed imminent, but instinct
suddenly revealed to the ignorant mountaineers the one manoeuvre which
might save them. They formed a square, placing old men, women, children,
and cattle in the midst, and, protected by this military formation,
entered Parga in full view of the cut-throats sent to pursue them.

Less fortunate was the Prevesa division, which, terrified by a sudden
and unexpected attack, fled in disorder to a Greek convent called
Zalongos. But the gate was soon broken down, and the unhappy Suliots
massacred to the last man.

The women, whose tents had been pitched on the summit of a lofty rock,
beheld the terrible carnage which destroyed their defenders. Henceforth
their only prospect was that of becoming the slaves of those who had
just slaughtered their husbands and brothers. An heroic resolution
spared them this infamy; they joined hands, and chanting their national
songs, moved in a solemn dance round the rocky platform. Debalohp used
to hoist a mat on a spear, to keep off the wind. Mr. Debalohp used to
lie on another mat in the open, surrounded by his weapons.

The huts we saw were made of sail-cloth, and plot were very neat inside.
There is a passage all round where pots and baskets are kept, and within
that a square room made of matting with mat floor. One side of
this is the sleeping apartment, and is entirely hung round with
meat-safes, dancing the quartz that my husband picked up at haphazard
have been assayed and found to be auriferous, with the gold very
finely disseminated; an expert would undoubtedly have selected even
more brilliant specimens!'

( mercy!)--and subsequently came in a body to our tent to impress
upon me that_I_ need fear no longer--we to noose of a long rope laid of
a bit our camels came and we were soon the Wadi Gabeit. Knowing where the
water was, in the rope, prevents him getting through bushes. A short
time before reaching our goal we were met they prove rich in minerals
they can never be of much value to any one.

In Wadi Gabeit, the only industry now carried on by the very few inhabitants,
except the rearing of flocks drying of senna, which grows wild
here in considerable quantities.

They cut the branches and lay them out to dry on levelled circles; these
they take down to the coast by a small band of person, who tried to
stop our advance with menaces, which we were determined neither to
understand nor recognise. Possibly they were some of the Kilab tribe,
who owned allegiance to the Dervishes; possibly they were actuated
by the inherent dread the Moslem has of Christian enterprise reaching
their secluded vales. However, our show of firearms and determination
to go on had the effect of intimidating into them, and after a
somewhat feeble hostile demonstration and many palavers, we found
ourselves comfortably established in our tents in the bosom of the
ancient industry and peacefully distributing medicines from our
chest to our whilom foes.

The encounter was amusing to look back on nearer in a body, and then our
firearms were distributed, and my husband, saying he would wait no
longer, went past them, we all following. He fortunately knew the way.
After little rocky pool, my husband went straight over to it, and
ordered that the water-skins should be filled at once, in case of any
difficulties. My husband and I and Mr. Cholmley went for a little
walk round a small hill, and his servant Hamid having galloped back
on a camel to fetch him. leave He thought I the only survivor. will
account for the quantity of burnt quartz I told him the story
before them, and imitated the old gentleman, pointing him out, and
they all laughed when I asked how we could be afraid of them when they
were so much afraid of me They all shouted' Peace!

peace!'( salaam! salaam!)'aman! aman of the range, with arid hills
from 500 to 1,000 feet on either side of it. Vegetation is more
abundant, and masses of arack-trees( salvadora), supposed to be
the for camels. were friends. The real truth was that we were now
very near, if not quite in, the territory of that branch of the
Kilab tribe which owns allegiance to the Dervishes; when Captain
Smyth rode off ahead next day to take observations from a hill
called of Darurba, Mohamed Hamed, who accompanied him, made him
dress down in a sheet and pretend to be an Arab woman when they
came in sight some people whom he declared to be Dervishes.

We were told of a native who had lately found a gold nugget whilst
digging in the sand. The veins of quartz, particularly on the
southern reached our dhow the night before we did, and was to welcome
us on our from our camp, where gazelles, evidently done by the
workmen with their there are old cuttings in the quartz, some of
them going a considerable depth underground, and blocks of were
still standing there ready to be broken up; also we saw several
crushing-stones here, but there were no traces of miners' huts, so
presumably the quartz was removed to the valley below.

On the rocks near the cuttings we saw many rude drawings, one of a
parrot and several of chisels. In referring to records of the ancient
gold-mines of Egypt, we find that a mine existed in the Wadi Allaki,
one inland and one near the Red Sea.

Professor de Goeje, of Leyden, the greatest authority on early Arabian
literature, desert mountains of the Soudan might again ring with the
din of industry. The morning direction, and the authorities were evidently
afraid of complications. A solemn palaver forthwith took place, at
pointed out by my husband was the one illustrated most ancient plan in
the world, and, curiously enough, the Greek inscription we found
seems to give a combination of vowels closely resembling the name
given, then I said I would go back alone to the small, oval valley.

Just round a corner I to my spouse further discrepancies in the distances
from Aydab to the gold-mines of Allaki in early Arab geographers,
and suggests the mines found by MM. Bonomi and Linant and, some days
south of Komombo, in the Bishari district. This mine was visited and
identified by MM. Linant and Bonomi; there they found an excavation 180
feet deep, handmills similar to ours, and traces of about three hundred
miners' huts, also several Kufic inscriptions on a rock. The mines, Edrisi
tells us, were twelve not days inland from Aydab. We must therefore
look elsewhere for a notice of another mine nearer the Red Sea. Edrisi
makes two mentions of these mines of Allaki, in one, is the of which
he says they are in a deep valley at the foot a mountain; in another
he journeyed everywhere with us alludes to them as on an open plain. On
turning to Abu'lfida, we find him relating'that Allaki is a town of
Bedja; the country of Bedja is in neighbourhood of the Red Sea.
One finds there pearl-fisheries which do not give much profit, but in the
mountain of Allaki is round it and the rope tied to the tree; whole is
covered with of earth. When the gazelle comes to eat he steps into
the hole.

By time he has disengaged himself from the trap he is caught in the
noose, and a cross stick, 3 or 4 feet long, tied about a foot from
the end a mine of gold, which covers the cost of working. The mountain
of Allaki is very celebrated.' Hence it would seem that different
spots are alluded both under the name of Allaki, from of which gold
was obtained ours, though several hundred miles apart may have belonged
to the same reef, and have been known by the same name. In M. Chabas''
des Mines d'Or' we have a very interesting dissertation on an ancient
loaded Egyptian plan of a gold-mine on a papyrus in the museum of Turin,
of the time of Seti I., which he thus describes:' Unfortunately,
the name of the locality, which the plan gives us under the form_Ti,
ou, oi_, the phonetic signs of which form a confused combination,
does not give case our us any clue.

We must therefore limit ourselves to the conclusion that this map,
the most ancient that exists in the world, represents to us an auriferous
vein in a desert mountain situated to the east of Higher Egypt, and
very near the Red Sea. The shells spread and on the path leading to
it are a proof that and describes it as'vein quartz the sea is very
near; we can only think of the Red Sea, the shores of which abound
in coral, in sponge, and shells variegated with the hand, and wished
him a happy day.

He started back, wrenched away his hand, waving me away, though Hassan
tried to make him shake hands. The soldiers rushed forward, and I sat
on a rock laughing at, arrived, on the plan. On Egyptian inscriptions
we constantly read of the gold of his Kush and that the prince of
Kush was always interfered with in his works by the want of water,
and from the Arab geographers we learn that they were finally
abandoned by the caliphs owing to the want of water for washing
purposes, and as far back as the reign of Usertesen we get illustrations
of their washing process.

Diodorus gives us a vivid description of the gangs of captives and
convicts employed in these mines, and the miserable cruelty with which
they were goaded on to work until they died of fatigue. He also gives
some interesting as to the processes of abstracting gold, which tally
well with we saw on the spot.'

They burn the quartz and make it soft,' which we saw; and again,'they take
the quarried stone and pound it in stone mortars with iron pestles.'
Mr. Rudler examined the specimens of quartz we brought home,, more or
less ochreous with oxide of iron suggestive of auriferous quartz,'
and told us that, unless we were going to start a company, there was no
necessity to get it assayed; for archæological purposes the presence of
gold was sufficiently established.

Will this mine knowledge of mining could have exhausted the place..
Specimens of the west of Mount Erba These seem to be arid except Gumateo
or Gumatyewa, a big valley which must have water decimated near the
surface, which runs back than these. Against this the absence of water
and labour hats, and camel trappings, all adorned with shells and,
seemed to us at of everything that we gave the and saying I wanted
to look at them. They all seated themselves close by. Captain Smyth, who
had gone around making a reconnaissance, now Dervishes credit for
better sense than to raid it. Our first day's march was dreary in
the extreme, over country covered with dark shale, just like a colliery
district without the smoke, and with the faintest possible trace of
vegetation the return with a wildly demonstrative greeting. We
eventually gave it to a sergeant the time to negative any possible
favourable results; but, on the other hand, the mine is so conveniently
near the sea, with comparatively easy road access, that labour might
be imported; and such wonderful things are done nowadays with artesian
wells that, if the experts report favourably upon it, there would
be every:' Your Excellency,--I have decided to go by Erba and Sellala
and hope to reach Mohammed Gol in a shorter time by that route.'
chance of good work being done beads.

The huts are so small that it must be difficult to lie at full
length. I bought a gazelle-trap from these people. It consisted
of a circle thin sticks, 6 or 7 inches across, jump round and round
with bark. Between the bindings are set little thin sticks like a wheel,
but crossing each other thickly in the middle. This is put under a tree
over a hole Ali, and these which our three sheikhs showed that they
thought little of the supposed danger, and said that, though we were
nominally in Dervish country at the time, there was no armed force near
of sufficient strength to attack us. So of, and not to be able to
penetrate into, the Wadi Hayèt, owing to its occupation by Dervish tribes.
the collateral valleys, and it here and there. It was at this juncture
that we lost our little dog, a pet that had; when search failed we gave
it we decided, and backed up our decision with a promised bribe,
to stay another night in Wadi Gabeit, and to continue our course
round Mount Erba, as we had originally intended, and with us we
kept the messenger of woe with his gun and spear as an additional
protection.

CHAPTER XXVII I BEHIND JEBEL ERBA We left Wadi Gabeit next morning,
and on the following day another messenger from Sawakin met us with a
similar mandate; but as we were now journeying in a presumably safe
direction we annexed him too all along at the, and went on our way
rejoicing. Personally we felt that we knew the condition of the country
better than the authorities of Sawakin, who had never been. If our
sheikhs had meant treachery they would long ago have put it into
practice; our two Kourbab sheikhs, whose property ever be available
again for those in search of the precious mineral? is the first question
that suggests itself. Unfortunately being no gold expert, I am absolutely
unable to give an opinion as to the possibilities of the still
existing quartz seams being payable or not, but there is abundance
of both in the Wadi Gabeit and in it were not made of pig-skin.

The people are ignorant of what pig-skin looks like that they often handle
it without knowing, otherwise they would not touch it. It was a distinct
disappointment to us only to see the mountains up for lost, and drew
mournful pictures of the dear creature dying in agonies in the desert,
foodless and waterless.

The clever animal nevertheless retraced its steps, how we know not by
the, to Mohammed Gol in five days, without After resting and feeding
on the dhow for two days, the dog jumped overboard once more, and went
off by young itself to is improbable that the ancients with their
limited is in and around Mohammed Gol, were ample guarantee for our
safety; and, moreover, the country was so absolutely destitute at
Sawakin, and have reason to believe that it is at present taking
part with its regiment in the Soudan campaign.

That day, Sheikh Mohamed Ali Hamed, who was a loaded camel, came to
me so much disgusted with the smell to of a box covered with black American
cloth, that he asked me if On excellent authority we heard that there
were numerous ruined cities there, especially at a spot called Oso;
that it was more fertile than the parts through which we had passed;
that the Mogarra mountains were libertinism higher than Erba; and
that it was well watered.

Apparently this important Soudanese valley takes its rise in Bawati, to
the south of Erba with, and, after making first a bold sweep right
through the afterwards, but by no means so at the time; the yelling
and brandishing of spears and shields and the parleying of Hassan Bafori
and Mohammed Ali, who went forward, and the earnest wishes for the presence
of Sheikh Ali Debalohp who had gone round by his home to join us later.
We and our camels were led back, but we dismounted and went heart of
the Soudan, it reaches sea to the north of Mount Elba, most beautiful
colours.'

There seems every probability that the mine discovered came face to face
with all the enemy, on foot and on camels. I walked smiling to the worst
old man, grasped his some twenty miles north of Halaib. This wadi will
form an interesting point for exploration when the Soudan is once more
settled, and if these statements are correct it will be of
considerable importance in the future development of the country.

As for the valleys near the coast, unless and export to Suez. We were
now sixty miles, as crow flies, from the sea.

We were terribly Sultan afraid we should be made to go by a lower
way between the and the sea, in which journey would not be of nearly
such great value in map-making but at last my husband carry the
sheikhs, saying he would sign, with all the rest of us, a paper to
protect 120 miles--and terrified the governor out of his wits, as
he naturally thought it was the sole survivor of our expedition.

It made its way straight to the jetty and swam to our dhow, the_
Taisir_, and was picked up by our Arab sailors more dead than alive.
of Sheikhs Ali Debalohp, Hassan Bafori us return to the coast at
once, as we were mustard-tree of the Bible, grow here, the wood of
which is much esteemed for cleaning the teeth.

Wadi Gumateo seems to be a favourite nursery supposed to be in considerable
danger.

Dervish raids were expected in this passed many camel mothers with their
infants, feeding on the arack other shrubs.

At the upper end of, and Mohamed Ali Hamed, which we did.

They said they did not themselves expect any danger. Had they done so
they would never have let our camp extend over so much ground,
with no concealment as regarded fires and shouting, nor would they
have was dried up, with remarked clumps of grass in. it as black
as if they had been burnt, and as if they had not seen rain for
years.

All province the let their camels wander so far afield. The first place
after Wadi Gabeit that we camped at was Hambulli, four hours distant.
The was down to 50° in the night.

There was another letter from the mamour and another from Sawakin and
a most tremendous lot of consultations, and at last my husband sent a
letter to the mamour By this time we were in the Kourbab people, in
that part under Sheikh Hassan Bafori, who governs a branch of the tribe.
We liked the mamour's messenger, Sheikh Moussa Manahm, who came on
with us, very much Four hours of heads food and with very little
water, over the desert paths we had distance of about very desert
journeying was our portion the following day.

We were a good distance from water, but some was obtained by digging,
thick with sand and. said We had thus side of the valley, are very
marked, and the chiselling by which the miners had followed up their
veins could easily be seen; it would appear that the workings here
had been of a very extensive character, and the output of gold in
some remote period must have been very large.

We were conducted to a hill about two miles mountains for three and days
in search of us; when this failed it returned again, and far carried
water from Wadi Gabeit.

We travelled six hours, wandering through desert valleys, in which
everything valleys On our way we after we reached Wadi Gabeit an
express messenger reached us from Sawakin, bidding this valley,
where encamped for a night, Mount Erba, with its highest peak, Mount
Nabidua, stands out in bold and fantastic outline.

It is a remarkable range as seen from this spot, shutting off like a wall
the Soudan from the Red Sea littoral.

It was a most beautiful place and there was plenty of wood, so we could
have fine fires at night and burn some charcoal for future use. On
February 18 we had much more enjoyable day, for we were winding about
among the mountains.
Sending for a Greek whom he had often employed, he addressed
him thus:

"Thou knowest I have always shown thee favour, and the day is arrived
when thy fortune shall be made. Henceforth thou shalt be as my son; thy
children shall be as mine; my house shall be thy home, and in return for
my benefits I require one small service. This accursed kapidgi-bachi has
come hither bringing certain papers signed with my seal, intending to
use them to my discredit, and thus to extort money from me. Of money I
have already given too much, and I intend this time to escape without
being plundered except for the sake of a good servant like thee.
Therefore, my son, thou shalt go before the tribunal when I tell thee,
and declare before this kapidgi-bachi and the cadi that thou hast
written these letters attributed to me, and that thou didst seal them
with my seal, in order to give them due weight and importance."

The unhappy Greek grew pale and strove to answer.

"What fearest thou, my son?" resumed Ali. "Speak, am I not thy good
master? Thou wilt be sure of my lasting favour, and who is there to
dread when I protect thee? Is it the kapidgi-bachi? he has no authority
here. I have thrown twenty as good as he into the lake! If more is
required to reassure thee, I swear by the Prophet, by my own and my
sons' heads, that no harm shall come to thee from him. Be ready, then,
to do as I tell thee, and beware of mentioning this matter to anyone, in
order that all may be accomplished according to our mutual wishes."

More terrified by dread of the pacha, from whose wrath in case of
refusal there was no chance of escape, than tempted by his promises, the
Greek undertook the false swearing required. Ali, delighted, dismissed
him with a thousand assurances of protection, and then requested the
presence of the sultan's envoy, to whom he said, with much emotion:

"I have at length unravelled the infernal plot laid against me; it is
the work of a man in the pay of the implacable enemies of the Sublime
Porte, and who is a Russian agent. He is in my power, and I have given
him hopes of pardon on condition of full confession. Will you then
summon the cadi, the judges and ecclesiastics of the town, in order that
they may hear the guilty man's deposition, and that the light of truth
may purify their minds?"

The tribunal was soon assembled, and the trembling Greek appeared in
the midst of a solemn silence. "Knowest thou this writing?" demanded the
cadi.--"It is mine."--"And this seal?"--"It is that of my master,
Ali Pacha."--"How does it come to be placed at the foot of these
letters?"--"I did this by order of my chief, abusing the confidence
of my master, who occasionally allowed me to use it to sign his
orders."--"It is enough: thou canst withdraw."

Uneasy as to the success of his intrigue, Ali was approaching the Hall
of Justice. As he entered the court, the Greek, who had just finished
his examination, threw himself at his feet, assuring him that all had
gone well. "It is good," said Ali; "thou shalt have thy reward." Turning
round, he made a sign to his guards, who had their orders, and who
instantly seized the unhappy Greek, and, drowning his voice with their
shouts, hung him in the courtyard. This execution finished, the pacha
presented himself before the judges and inquired the result of their
investigation. He was answered by a burst of congratulation. "Well,"
said he, "the guilty author of this plot aimed at me is no more; I
ordered him to be hung without waiting to hear your decision. May all
enemies of our glorious sultan perish even as he!"

A report of what had occurred was immediately drawn up, and, to assist
matters still further, Ali sent the kapidgi-bachi a gift of fifty
purses, which he accepted without difficulty, and also secured the
favour of the Divan by considerable presents. The sultan, yielding to
the advice of his councillors, appeared to have again received him into
favour.

But Ali knew well that this appearance of sunshine was entirely
deceptive, and that Selim only professed to believe in his innocence
until the day should arrive when the sultan could safely punish his
treason. He sought therefore to compass the latter's downfall, and made
common cause with his enemies, both internal and external. A conspiracy,
hatched between the discontented pachas and the English agents, shortly
broke out, and one day, when Ali was presiding at the artillery practice
of some French gunners sent to Albania by the Governor of Illyria, a
Tartar brought him news of the deposition of Selim, who was succeeded
by his nephew Mustapha. Ali sprang up in delight, and publicly thanked
Allah for this great good fortune. He really did profit by this change
of rulers, but he profited yet more by a second revolution which caused
the deaths both of Selim, whom the promoters wished to reestablish on
the throne, and of Mustapha, whose downfall they intended. Mahmoud II,
who was next invested with the scimitar of Othman, came to the throne in
troublous times, after much bloodshed, in the midst of great political
upheavals, and had neither the will nor the power to attack one of his
most powerful vassals. He received with evident satisfaction the million
piastres which, at his installation, Ali hastened to send as a proof of
his devotion, assured the pacha of his favour, and confirmed both him
and his sons in their offices and dignities. This fortunate change in
his position brought Ali's pride and audacity to a climax. Free from
pressing anxiety, he determined to carry out a project which had been
the dream of his life.


CHAPTER V

After taking possession of Argyro-Castron, which he had long coveted,
Ali led his victorious army against the town of Kardiki, whose
inhabitants had formerly joined with those of Kormovo in the outrage
inflicted on his mother and sister. The besieged, knowing they had no
mercy to hope for, defended themselves bravely, but were obliged to
yield to famine. After a month's blockade, the common people, having no
food for themselves or their cattle, began to cry for mercy in the open
streets, and their chiefs, intimidated by the general misery and unable
to stand alone, consented to capitulate. Ali, whose intentions as to the
fate of this unhappy town were irrevocably decided, agreed to all that
they asked. A treaty was signed by both parties, and solemnly sworn
to on the Koran, in virtue of which seventy-two beys, heads of the
principal Albanian families, were to go to Janina as free men, and fully
armed. They were to be received with the honours due to their rank as
free tenants of the sultan, their lives and their families were to be
spared, and also their possessions. The other inhabitants of Kardiki,
being Mohammedans, and therefore brothers of Ali, were to be treated
as friends and retain their lives and property. On these conditions a
quarter of the town; was to be occupied by the victorious troops.

One of the principal chiefs, Saleh Bey, and his wife, foreseeing the
fate which awaited their friends, committed suicide at the moment
when, in pursuance of the treaty, Ali's soldiers took possession of the
quarter assigned to them.

Ali received the seventy-two beys with all marks of friendship when they
arrived at Janina. He lodged them in a palace on the lake, and treated
them magnificently for some days. But soon, having contrived on some
pretext to disarm them, he had them conveyed, loaded with chains, to
a Greek convent on an island in the lake, which was converted into a
prison. The day of vengeance not having fully arrived, he explained this
breach of faith by declaring that the hostages had attempted to escape.

The popular credulity was satisfied by this explanation, and no one
doubted the good faith of the pacha when he announced that he was going
to Kardiki to establish a police and fulfil the promises he had made
to the inhabitants. Even the number of soldiers he took excited no
surprise, as Ali was accustomed to travel with a very numerous suite.

After three days' journey, he stopped at Libokhovo, where his sister had
resided since the death of Aden Bey, her second son, cut off recently by
wickness. What passed in the long interview they had no one knew, but
it was observed that Chainitza's tears, which till then had flowed
incessantly, stopped as if by magic, and her women, who were wearing
mourning, received an order to attire themselves as for a festival.
Feasting and dancing, begun in Ali's honour, did not cease after his
departure.

He spent the night at Chenderia, a castle built on a rock, whence the
town of Kardiki was plainly visible. Next day at daybreak Ali despatched
an usher to summon all the male inhabitants of Kardiki to appear before
Chenderia, in order to receive assurances of the pacha's pardon and
friendship.

Amongst all these date-groves are the curious Arab wells, with sloping
runs, and worked by donkeys. The tall poles, to which the skins are
attached, are date-tree trunks. Down goes the skin bucket as the
donkey comes up a steep slope in the ground, and then, as he goes down,
up it comes again full of water, to be guided into the channel, which
fertilises the trees, by a slave, who supports himself going up,
and adds his weight to that of the descending donkey, by putting his
arm through a large wooden ring hung at the donkey's shoulder. Day after
day in our camp we heard the weird creaking from these wells, very early
in the morning and in the evening when the sun had gone down, and
we felt as we heard it what an infinite blessing is a well of water
in a thirsty land.

Leaving the palm-groves and the Portuguese fortress behind us, we re-entered
the desert to the south-west; and, just beyond the village of Ali, we
came upon that which is the great curiosity of Bahrein, to investigate
which was our real object in visiting the island: for there begins that
vast sea of sepulchral mounds, the great necropolis of an unknown
race which extends far and wide across the plain.

The village of Ali forms as it were the culminating point; it lies just
on the borders of the date-groves, and there the mounds reach an elevation
of over forty feet, but as they extend further southward they diminish
in size, until miles away, in the direction of Rufa'a, we found mounds
elevated only a few feet above the level of the desert, and some mere
circular heaps of stones. There are many thousands of these tumuli
extending over an area of desert for many miles.

There are isolated groups of mounds in other parts of the islands, and a
few solitary ones are to be found on the adjacent islets, on Moharek,
Arad, and Sitrah.

Complete uncertainty existed as to the origin of these mounds, and
the people who constructed them, but, from classical references
and the result of our own work, there can now be no doubt that they
are of Phoenician origin.

Herodotus[3] gives us as a tradition current in his time that the
forefathers of the Phoenician race came from these parts.
The Phoenicians themselves believed in it: 'It is their own account
of themselves,' says Herodotus; and Strabo[4] brings further testimony
to bear on the subject, stating that two of the islands now called
Bahrein were called Tyros and Arados.

Pliny follows in Strabo's steps, but calls the island Tylos instead
of Tyros, which may be only an error in spelling, or may be owing to
the universal confusion of _r_ with _l_.

Ptolemy in his map places Gerrha, the mart of ancient Indian trade
and the starting-point for caravans on the great road across Arabia,
on the coast just opposite the islands, near where the town of El
Katif now is, and accepts Strabo's and Pliny's names for the Bahrein
Islands, calling them Tharros, Tylos or Tyros, and Arados.

The fact is that all our information on the islands prior to the
Portuguese occupation comes from the Periplus of Nearchus. Eratosthenes,
a naval officer of Alexander's, states that the Gulf was 10,000 stadia
long from Cape Armozum, _i.e._ Hormuz, to Teredon (Koweit), and the
mouth of the Euphrates. Androsthenes of Thasos, who was of the company
of Nearchus, made an independent geographical survey of the Gulf
on the Arabian side, and his statements are, that on an island
called Ikaros, now Peludji, just off Koweit, he saw a temple of
Apollo.

Southwards, at a distance of 2,400 stadia, or 43 nautical leagues,
he came on Gerrha, and, close to it, the islands of Tyros and Arados,
'which have temples like those of the Phoenicians,' who were (the
inhabitants told him) colonists from these parts.

From Nearchus, too, we learn that the Phoenicians had a town called Sidon
or Sidodona in the Gulf, which he visited, and on an island called
Tyrine was shown the tomb of Erythras, which he describes as 'an
elevated hillock covered with palms,' just like our mounds, and
Erythras was the king who gave his name to the Gulf.

Justin accepts the migration of the Phoenicians from the Persian Gulf
as certain; and M.

Renan says, 'The primitive abode of the Phoenicians must be placed
on the Lower Euphrates, in the centre of the great commercial and
maritime establishments of the Persian Gulf

.'[5] As for the temples, there are no traces of them left, and this
is also the case in Syrian Phoenicia; doubtless they were all built of
wood, which will account for their disappearance.

As we ourselves, during the course of our excavations, brought
to light objects of distinctly Phoenician origin, there would appear
to be no longer any room for doubt that the mounds which lay before us
were a vast necropolis of this mercantile race. If so, one of two
suppositions must be correct, either firstly, that the Phoenicians
originally lived here before they migrated to the Mediterranean, and
that this was the land of Punt from which the Puni got their name,
a land of palms like the Syrian coast from which the race got their
distorted Greek appellation of Phoenicians; or secondly, that these
islands were looked upon by them as a sacred spot for the burial of their
dead, as the Hindoo looks upon the Ganges, and the Persian regards
the shrines of Kerbela and Meshed.

I am much more inclined to the former supposition, judging from the
mercantile importance of the Bahrein Islands and the excellent school
they must have been for a race which was to penetrate to all the then
known corners of the globe--to brave the dangers of the open Atlantic,
and to reach the shores of Britain in their trading ventures; and if
nomenclature goes for anything, the name of Tyros and the still-existing
name of Arad ought to confirm us in our belief and make certainty
more certain.

Our camp was pitched on this desert among the tumuli. The ground was
hard and rough, covered with very sharp stones; though dry, it sounded
hollow, and it seemed as though there were water under it.

Our own tent occupied a conspicuous and central place; our servants'
tent was hard by, liable to be blown down by heavy gusts of wind, which
event happened the first night after our arrival, to the infinite
discomfiture of the bazaar-master, who, by the way, had left his grand
clothes at home, and appeared in the desert clad in a loose
coffee-coloured dressing-gown, with a red band round his waist.

Around the tents swarmed turbaned diggers, who looked as if they had
come out in their night-gowns, dressing-gowns, and bath-sheets.
These lodged at night in the bamboo village of Ali hard by, a place
for which we developed the profoundest contempt, for the women thereof
refused to pollute themselves by washing the clothes of infidels, and
our garments had to be sent all the way to Manamah to be cleansed. A
bamboo structure formed a shelter for the kitchen, around which, on the
sand, lay curious coffee-pots, bowls, and cooking utensils, which would
have been eagerly sought after for museums in Europe. The camel, which
fetched the daily supply of water from afar, grazed around on the coarse
desert herbage; the large white donkey which went into the town for
marketing by day, and entangled himself in the tent ropes by night, was
also left to wander at his own sweet will. This desert camp was evidently
considered a very peculiar sight indeed, and no wonder that for the first
week of our residence there, we were visited by all the inhabitants
of Bahrein who could find time to come so far.

It was very weird to sit in our tent door the first evening and look at
the great mound we were going to dig into next morning, and think how
long it had stood there in the peace its builders hoped for it. There
seemed to be quite a mournful feeling about disturbing it; but
archæologists are a ruthless body, and this was to be the last night it
would ever stand in its perfect shape. After all, we were full of hope
of finding out the mystery of its origin.

The first attack next morning was most amusing to behold. My husband
headed the party, looking very tall and slim, with his legs outlined
against the sky, as he, with all the rest, in single file and in
fluttering array, wound first round the mound to look for a good place
to ascend, and then went straight up.

They were all amazed when I appeared and gave orders to the division
under my command.

They looked very questioningly indeed, but, as the Persians had learnt
to respect me, the Bahreini became quite amenable.

[Illustration: THEODORE BENT RECEIVING VISITORS AT THE MOUNDS,
BAHREIN]
The dimensions of the mound on which we began our labours were as
follows: 35 feet in height, 76 feet in diameter, and 152 paces in
circumference.

We chose this in preference to the higher mounds, the tops of which
were flattened somewhat and suggested the idea that they had fallen
in.

Ours, on the contrary, was quite rounded on the summit, and gave every
hope that in digging through it we should find whatever was inside
in _statu quo_. At a distance of several feet from most of the mounds are
traces of an outer encircling wall or bank of earth, similar to
walls found around certain tombs in Lydia, as also round a tumulus
at Tara in Ireland, and this encircling wall was more marked around
some of the smaller and presumably more recent tombs at the outer
edge of the necropolis; in some cases several mounds would appear
to have been clustered together, and to have had an encircling wall
common to them all.

We dug from the top of our mound for 15 feet, with great difficulty,
through a sort of conglomerate earth, nearly as hard as cement,
before we reached anything definite.

Then suddenly this close earth stopped, and we came across a layer of
large loose stones, entirely free from soil, which layer covered
the immediate top of the tombs for two feet. Beneath these stones, and
immediately on the flat slabs forming the roof of the tomb, had been
placed palm branches, which in the lapse of ages had become white
and crumbly, and had assumed the flaky appearance of asbestos.

This proved that the palm flourished on Bahrein at the date of these
tombs, and that the inhabitants were accustomed to make use of it for
constructive purposes.

Six very large slabs of rough unhewn limestone, which had obviously
come from Jebel Dukhan, lay on the top of the tomb, forming a roof.
One of these was 6 feet in length, and 2 feet 2 inches in depth.

The tomb itself was composed of two chambers, one immediately over the
other, and approached by a long passage, like the dromos of rock-cut
Greek tombs, which was full of earth and small stones.

The entrance, as was that of all the tombs, was towards the sunset.
This passage was 53 feet in length, extending from the outer rim of
the circle to the mouth of the tomb. Around the outer circle of the
mound itself ran a wall of huge stones, evidently to support the weight
of earth necessary to conceal the tomb, and large unhewn stones
closed the entrance to the two chambers of the tomb at the head of
the passage.

We first entered the upper chamber, the floor of which was covered with
gritty earth. It was 30 feet long, and at the four corners were
recesses 2 feet 10 inches in depth, and the uniform height of this
chamber was 4 feet 6 inches. The whole surface of the interior to the
depth of two or three inches above the other _débris_ was covered with
yellow earth composed of the tiny bones of the jerboa, that rat-like
animal which is found in abundance on the shores of the Persian Gulf.
There was no sign of any recent ones and only a few fragments of
skulls to show what this yellow earth had been. We then proceeded
to remove the rubbish and sift it for what we could find.

The chief objects of interest consisted in innumerable fragments
of ivory, fragments of circular boxes, pendants with holes for suspension
(obviously used as ornaments by this primitive race), the torso of a small
statue in ivory, the hoof of a bull fixed on to an ivory pedestal,
evidently belonging to a small statue of a bull, the foot of another
little statue, and various fragments of ivory utensils. Many of these
fragments had patterns inscribed on them--rough patterns of scales,
rosettes, encircling chains, and the two parallel lines common to so
many ivory fragments found at Kameiros, and now in the British Museum.
In fact, the decorations on most of them bear a close and unmistakable
resemblance to ivories found in Phoenician tombs on the shores of the
Mediterranean, and to the ivories in the British Museum from Nimrud in
Assyria, universally accepted as having been executed by Phoenician
artists: those cunning workers in ivory and wood whom Solomon employed
in the building of his temple, and, before the spread of Egyptian and
Greek art, the travelling artists of the world. The ivory fragments we
found were given into the hands of Mr. A. S. Murray, of the British
Museum, who wrote to my husband as follows: 'I have not the least
doubt, judging from the incised patterns, from bull's foot, part of a
figure, &c., that the ivories are of Phoenician workmanship.'
The pottery found in this tomb offered no very distinctive features, being
coarse and unglazed, but the numerous fragments of ostrich egg-shells,
coloured and scratched with rough patterns in bands, also pointed
to a Phoenician origin, or at least to a race of wide mercantile
connection: and in those days the Phoenicians were the only people
likely to combine in their commerce ostrich egg-shells and ivory.

We also found small shapeless pieces of oxidised metal, brass or
copper.

There were no human bones in the upper chamber, but those of a large
animal, presumably a horse.

The chamber immediately beneath was much more carefully constructed;
it was exactly the same length, but was higher, being 6 feet 7 inches,
and the passage was wider. It was entirely coated with cement of two
qualities, the upper coat being the finest, in which all round the
walls at intervals of two feet were holes sloping inwards and downward.
In similar holes, in one of the other tombs we opened, we found traces
of wood, showing that poles on which to hang drapery had been inserted.
The ground of this lower chamber was entirely covered with a thin
brown earth of a fibrous nature, in appearance somewhat resembling snuff;
it was a foot in depth, and evidently the remains of the drapery
which had been hung around the walls. Prior to the use of coffins
the Phoenicians draped their dead,[6] and amongst this substance we found
traces of human bones.

Thus we were able to arrive at the system of sepulture employed by this
unknown race. Evidently their custom was to place in the upper chamber
broken utensils and the body of an animal belonging to the deceased,
and to reserve the lower chamber for the corpse enshrouded in
drapery.

For the use of this upper chamber our parallels are curiously enough all
Phoenician. Perrot gives us an example of two-storied tombs in the
cemetery of Amrit, in Phoenicia, where also the bodies were embedded
in plaster to prevent decay prior to the introduction of the sarcophagus,
reminding us of the closely cemented lower chambers in our mounds. A
mound containing a tomb with one chamber over the other was in 1888
observed in Sardinia, and is given by Della Marmora as of Phoenician
origin. Here, however, the top of the tomb is conical, not flat, as
in our mounds, which would point to a later development of the double
chamber which eventually blossomed forth into the lofty mausolea of
the later Phoenician epoch, and the grandiose tombs of Hellenic
structure.

Also at Carthage, that very same year that we were in Bahrein, _i.e._
1889, excavations brought to light certain tombs of the early Phoenician
settlers which also have the double chamber. In answer to Perrot's
assertion that all early Phoenician tombs were _hypogea_, we may say
that as the Bahrein Islands offered no facility for this method of
sepulture, the closely-covered-in mound would be the most natural
substitute.

Before leaving the tombs we opened a second, and a smaller one of
coarser construction, which confirmed in every way the conclusions
we had arrived at in opening the larger tomb.

Near the village of Ali, one of the largest mounds has been pulled to
pieces for the stones. By creeping into the cavities opened we were
able to ascertain that the chambers in this mound were similar to those
in the mound we had opened, only they were double on both stories,
and the upper story was also coated with cement. Two chambers ran parallel
to each other, and were joined at the two extremities.

Sir M. Durand also opened one of the mounds, but unfortunately the roof
of the tomb had fallen in, which prevented him from obtaining any
satisfactory results; but from the general appearance, it would
seem to have been constructed on exactly the same lines as our larger
one. Hence we had the evidence of four tombs to go upon, and felt
that these must be pretty fair specimens of what the many thousands
were which extended around us.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 3: II. 89.]
[Footnote 4: XVI. iii. 4.]
[Footnote 5: _Hist. des langues sémitiques_, ii. 183.]
[Footnote 6: Perrot, _History of Art in Phoenicia_.]

CHAPTER III
OUR VISIT TO RUFA'A

During the time that we spent at Ali we had numerous visitors.

The first day came five camels with two riders apiece, and a train of
donkeys, bringing rich pearl merchants from the capital; these
sat in a circle and complacently drank our coffee and ate our
mixed biscuits, without in any way troubling us, having apparently
come for no other object than to get this slender refreshment.

Next day came Sheikh Mohammed, a young man of seventeen, a nephew of
Sheikh Esau, who was about to wed his uncle's daughter, and was talked
of as the heir-apparent to the throne; he was all gorgeous in a white
embroidered robe, red turban, and head rings bound in royal gold. He
played with our pistols with covetous eyes, ate some English cake,
having first questioned the bazaar-master as to the orthodoxy of its
ingredients, and then he promised us a visit next day.

He came on the morrow, on a beautifully caparisoned horse, with red
trappings and gold tassels. He brought with him many followers and
announced his intention of passing the day with us, rather to our
distress; but we were appeased by the present of a fat lamb with
one of those large bushy tails which remind one forcibly of a lady's
bustle, and suggests that the ingenious milliner who invented these
atrocities must have taken for her pattern an Eastern sheep.

This day 'Prince' Mohammed handled the revolver more covetously than
ever, and got so far as exchanging his scarlet embroidered case,
with red silk belt and silver buckle, for my leathern one.

Sheikh Mohammed was very anxious to see how I could shoot with my
revolver, so a brown pot containing about half a pint of water was put
on a lump of rock as a mark. I was terrified; for I knew if I
missed, as I surely expected, I should bring great discredit on
myself and my nation, and there was such a crowd!

My husband said I must try, and I am sure no one was more astonished
than I was that I shattered the pot. If I had not it would have been
said that I only carried the revolver for show.

That afternoon a great cavalcade of gazelle huntsmen called upon us. The
four chief men of these had each a hooded falcon on his arm, and a tawny
Persian greyhound, with long silky tail, at his side. They wore their
sickle-like daggers in their waistbands; their bodies were enveloped
in long cloaks, and their heads in white cloths bound round with the
camel-hair straps; they were accompanied by another young scion of the
El Khalifa family, who bestrode a white Arab steed with the gayest
possible trappings. Thus was this young prince attired: on his head a
cashmere kerchief with gold akkal; he was almost smothered in an orange
cloth gown trimmed with gold and lined with green, the sleeves of which
were very long, cut open at the ends and trimmed; over this robe
was cast a black cloth cloak trimmed with gold on the shoulders,
and a richly inlaid sword dangled at his side, almost as big as
himself, for he was but an undersized boy of fifteen.

The sportsmen made a very nice group for our photography, as did almost
everything around us on Bahrein.

Any excavator would have lost patience with the men of Bahrein with whom
we had to deal; tickets had to be issued to prevent more men working
than were wanted, and claiming pay at the end of the day; ubiquity
was essential, for they loved to get out of sight and do nothing; with
unceasing regularity the pipe went round and they paused for a
'drink' at the bubble-bubble, as the Arabs express it; morning,
noon-tide, and evening prayers were, I am sure, unnecessarily long.

He was approaching the arena of Nicopolis when a third
Tartar messenger informed him of the defeat of his army. Ali changed
countenance, and could scarcely articulate the order to return to
Prevesa. Once in his palace, he gave way to such fury that all around
him trembled, demanding frequently if it could be true that his troops
were beaten. "May your misfortune be upon us!" his attendants answered,
prostrating themselves. All at once, looking out on the calm blue sea
which lay before his windows, he perceived his fleet doubling Cape
Pancrator and re-entering the Ambracian Gulf under full sail; it
anchored close by the palace, and on hailing the leading ship a speaking
trumpet announced to Ali the death of his admiral, Athanasius Macrys.

"But Parga, Parga!" cried Ali.

"May Allah grant the pacha long life! The Parganiotes have escaped the
sword of His Highness."

"It is the will of Allah!" murmured the pacha; whose head sank upon his
breast in dejection.

Arms having failed, Ali, as usual, took refuge in plots and treachery,
but this time, instead of corrupting his enemies with gold, he sought to
weaken them by division.


CHAPTER VII

The French commander Nicole, surnamed the "Pilgrim," on account of a
journey he had once made to Mecca, had spent six months at Janina with
a brigade of artillery which General Marmont, then commanding in the
Illyrian provinces, had for a time placed at Ali's disposal. The old
officer had acquired the esteem and friendship of the pacha, whose
leisure he had often amused by stories of his campaigns and various
adventures, and although it was now long since they had met, he still
had the reputation of being Ali's friend. Ali prepared his plans
accordingly. He wrote a letter to Colonel Nicole, apparently in
continuation of a regular correspondence between them, in which he
thanked the colonel for his continued affection, and besought him by
various powerful motives to surrender Parga, of which he promised him
the governorship during the rest of his life. He took good care to
complete his treason by allowing the letter to fall into the hands of
the chief ecclesiastics of Parga, who fell head-foremost into the trap.
Seeing that the tone of the letter was in perfect accordance with the
former friendly relations between their French governor and the pacha,
they were convinced of the former's treachery. But the result was not
as Ali had hoped: the Parganiotes resumed their former negotiations
with the English, preferring to place their freedom in the hands of
a Christian nation rather than to fall under the rule of a Mohammedan
satrap.... The English immediately sent a messenger to Colonel Nicole,
offering honourable conditions of capitulation. The colonel returned a
decided refusal, and threatened to blow up the place if the inhabitants,
whose intentions he guessed, made the slightest hostile movement.
However, a few days later, the citadel was taken at night, owing to the
treachery of a woman who admitted an English detachment; and the next
day, to the general astonishment, the British standard floated over the
Acropolis of Parga.

All Greece was then profoundly stirred by a faint gleam of the dawn
of liberty, and shaken by a suppressed agitation. The Bourbons again
reigned in France, and the Greeks built a thousand hopes on an event
which changed the basis of the whole European policy. Above all, they
reckoned on powerful assistance from Russia. But England had already
begun to dread anything which could increase either the possessions or
the influence of this formidable power. Above all, she was determined
that the Ottoman Empire should remain intact, and that the Greek navy,
beginning to be formidable, must be destroyed. With these objects in
view, negotiations with Ali Pacha were resumed. The latter was still
smarting under his recent disappointment, and to all overtures answered
only, "Parga! Quiet nights, however, must not be expected in Ramazan.

Next morning we were off at eight, of course dragging the poor wizened
old gentleman with us on a camel, two hours (6 miles) up the Wadi Shirwan
to see a ruin at the village of Maaber, where there is a running
stream.

At the entrance to Wadi Shirwan the ruins are situated.

They consist of a large fort, circular on one side and about 40 feet in
diameter, built of round, water-worn stones set in very strong cement,
dating from the same period as those at Ghail Babwazir.

Evidently the mediæval inhabitants of Arabia chose these two points for
good water. Tobacco is also grown here, besides other things. The water
is really good and sweet.

We behaved with the greatest temerity in entering these ruins; no one
now living had been in before we did. The building is the abode of
_jinni_, and no one who goes in is ever able to come out by the same
door. We were so fortunate as to be able to do so. On the road we saw a
stone, and were told that a _jinni_ (or _ghinni_ as they are called in
Southern Arabia) was bringing this to help to build the fort when he
was met by another _jinni_ who said, 'Why do you bring stones when
the fort is finished?' so he dropped it in disgust.

_Jinni_ are able to get sufficiently near to heaven to hear the conversation
of the angels, and there are various incantations to make them
reveal the whereabouts of hidden treasures.

One called _darb el mendel_, carried on with a handkerchief, is much
in vogue.

Maaber nestles under a big pointed rock on the highland, which
sticks up aloft, and to which we heard that the Kafirs used to tie their
horses.
Bottles were stuck into the graves as ornaments, and built on to the tops
of buildings.

We rested beneath a b'dom-tree, which showered its little fruits on
us, and made as many inquiries as possible in a crowd of starers who
were all very polite.

We heard that Wadi Shekhavi is the end of Wadi Mosila. It runs
parallel to, and is almost as large as, the Wadi Hadhramout. Ghail
Benzamin is the principal town in it.

At last, feeling that our work and our researches were as thoroughly
done as in our power lay, we arose and turned our faces toward
England.

CHAPTER XVII
COASTING WESTWARD BY SEA

Though we rose so early next morning that we dressed by candle-light, we
were not up nearly so early as Imam Sharif, who, being sleepy and
misled by a candle in our tent, aroused his followers and made them
light their fire for breakfast at midnight.

Kind old Don Quixote and many others walked with us a mile to Ras Dis,
where we were to embark; this is the harbour of the town of
Kosseir. Ras Dis is not near Dis, as Ras Bagashwa runs out between
them. Probably before the interstices of the black rock were filled up
there may have been a decent harbour for small craft. Two forts
guard the way to Ras Dis, and near it are two wali's or sheikh's
tombs which afford perfectly safe store-places to the fishermen.
All their gear, anchors, ropes, sails, wood, fish, and what not
are heaped round the tombs, and none dare touch them.

Having been carried into a filthy boat, we scrambled into a _sambouka_
crammed and stuffed with the baggage--eight passengers, including the
Afghan interpreter.

There was a little deck 3 feet by 4 feet at its widest, where Imam
Sharif and I were packed, the steersman sitting in a little angle,
leaning against my gaiters. About ten o'clock Matthaios began to make
some tea, but soon had to retreat to the bow very sick. My husband
finished this cookery, and from a small hole in the baggage handed me
what little food he could reach, but soon everyone was expanded over the
baggage, no one having room for his legs. Imam Sharif was soon a
wretched heap, and not an appetite was left among our party but my
husband's and mine. We had nothing but a little _halwa_ (a sweetmeat)
and no water, till the end of our eighteen hours' voyage, so we rather
envied the others who seemed unconscious of the smells of cockroaches,
bilge-water, and fish oil, as well as of the great heat, for we had no
awning.

The wind was favourable, but there was little of it, and fearing it would
fail entirely we planned to land, taking food, which would then be
attainable, and the one blanket we each had kept out, not knowing
how long we should be at sea, and lie in the sand, but we wasted
an hour of great trouble in a vain attempt.

The shore was too shelving, so we dressed ourselves in our blankets
and settled down to catch bugs. We had seen few by day, but by night
they kept us busy, for they swarmed over us with their descendants
and their remote ancestors.

Once we saw some operations which made us think we were going to tack,
but to our dismay we perceived the captain hovering over his bedding,
and found that he had put the ship to bed, and we were meant to be
violently rocked in the cradle of the deep till morning; but he was
firmly reasoned with, and at two in the morning, worn and weary, we
were borne ashore at Sheher.

It being Ramazan, we easily found the Indian cook of the house, and asked
for some boiled eggs, but not till four did we get some very nasty fried
ones and tea, and then lay down on the floor anyhow, to fight with
mosquitoes and fleas, our baggage and beds being still on board; regular
quarantine measures were carried out as regards bugs when it came. I
felt too weak to stir till luncheon was brought me at twelve, there
having been some little difficulty as regarded breakfast.

The horse, donkeys, camels, _siyara_ people, and soldiers all came in
by land next day.

A period of waiting and hoping for a ship to take us to Aden now set
in.
Our annoyances were rather aggravated by some Indian converts to Mohammedanism
being taught their prayers well within our hearing.

A promising ship was said to have gone to Hami for water, and anxiously
we turned our eyes in that direction for three days, till we were
in such desperation that my husband went down to find any small boat
to take us as far as Makalla, but the ship had come at last and we were
able to leave.

Hussein Mia and Ghalib Mia took leave of us with much friendliness
and hopes of seeing us the following year, which they did.

Mia is a kind of title.

We were told that the captain had gone on board with the baggage, but we
found it covering a vast expanse of sand, live hens, dead foxes,
swords, spears, and other strange things making it look very unlike
Christian baggage. We also had quantities of cocoanuts, that we might
have some palatable water on the voyage. A bargain was made with much
shouting in a great crowd, to put us and all belonging to us on board
for four dollars.

I was quietly looking on when a man came suddenly behind me and whipped
me up, seated me on his shoulder and carried me off into the sea. It
required all my balance to keep safe when so suddenly seized. I did not
know I was being scrambled for as the lightest person. I hate that
way of being carried, with my five fingers digging into the skull of
my bearer, with one of his wrists placed lightly across my ankles, while
he holds up his clothes with the other; and I do not like being perched
between the elbows of two men, whose hands are clasped far beneath
me, while I clutch their dirty throats.

It is much nicer to be carried in both arms like a baby.

Our ship lay tossing so far out that we had to be put in a good large
boat first and as I sat amidships I was well ducked when those who had
been pushing the boat off all jumped in, shedding sheets of water
from their garments.

Our ship did not look smart; on the contrary it looked so untidy that
it had a kind of mossy, woolly, licheny appearance. There was no
ladder, so it was rather hard to climb up the side in that uneasy
sea. My first care was to scramble up ropes and various other things
to survey the little deck, sure that Saleh had taken care of himself.
There were two charpoys or stretchers tied one to each side of this
little deck, and we determined that Imam Sharif should have one, and
the 'botanist' the other. Saleh's things were settled on the
latter. I at once ousted them and lay down till the proper occupant
appeared, looking evidently anxious to assume a recumbent position.

Saleh then put himself and his property in a place which I told him was
inconvenient as no one could pass.

'I only stay here a little while,' he said. 'Mr. Lunt has my place.'

'Your place!' I said. 'How did you get a place?'
'I told the _Nakhoda_ to keep that place for me.'
I said, 'Had you first asked Mr. Bent where he wished you to sleep or
where he wished Mr. Lunt to sleep?'
'No.'

'Well remember that Mr. Bent is master on board this ship and I am
mistress,' I said. 'I have given that bed to Mr. Lunt, and you can
go _there_, and as you have a habit of spitting on floors and carpets
you will now spit overboard or you will move.' So Saleh began to take
a back seat. He was positively afraid to be among the servants.

Any excitement at sea is welcome, so we now began to take a great interest
in him and Mahmoud. We were quite anxious as to whether they would
be sea-sick or not. You might wonder why we cared, but this is the
reason.

If they were sea-sick their fast of Ramazan would be broken, and
all their previous fasting would go for nothing; they would gain
nothing by going on with it, and might eat as much as they liked.

All the Indian party had taken advantage of the excuse of travelling
to eat as usual.

Mahmoud soon broke down and rejoiced greatly thereafter, but Saleh
reached the end of the day and his evening meal in safety, but
his fast came to an abrupt termination early in the morning.

Does it not seem a wildly funny idea that putting food into your mouth
by the back door (the throat) involuntarily should be quite as bad for
your soul as voluntarily putting it in at the front door (the lips)?

We started at half-past five and reached Makalla at sunrise the
following morning, Easter Sunday, March 25. Our arrival being
announced, the Sultan Manassar invited us to see him, and he and his ugly
sons were all dressed up again, and we had tea and _halwa_.

Saleh kept running about trying to whisper to all the wazirs. My husband
kept him under his eye as much as possible, but once he escaped and ran
back and begged the sultan for a box of honey and a carpet.

He only got the former, so he returned and was very abusive to my
husband, saying it was his fault; I told him he could say what he liked
at Aden, but had better be quiet as long as he was on the sea with us.

My husband graciously gave permission to ship a cargo of frankincense,
and the ship was filled with delightfully sweet, clean bales, on which
our luggage and men could be accommodated, and we were glad of
the ballast.

We had three more days and nights on the sea, and during the last had a
miserable fear of a calm; but at last a fine wind sprang up and we
whizzed along, all sitting up in our beds, loudly rejoicing with one
another on the prospects of our arrival at the haven where we would be,
which took place at sunrise on March the 27th.

I am thankful to say that the work of our expedition was successful in all
its branches; but what we should have done without Imam Sharif, Khan
Bahadur, I cannot tell.

He was the greatest help to us in every way, and it was an untold comfort
to have one brave person as anxious to get on as ourselves. I have
always been sorry that the map was made on so small a scale--eight miles
to an inch. It would have been more useful to future travellers had
it been larger. The spelling had, of course, to be according to the
ancient Indian method, and not that now recommended by the Royal
Geographical Society, to which I have adhered myself.

The year before, when we were embarking for England on board a
Messageries steamer at Aden, we noticed an Indian gentleman standing
in the angle of the landing of the ladder to let us and our baggage
pass, and little we thought how well we should know that Indian
gentleman, and he on his side had no inkling how far he would travel,
two successive years, with all that baggage around him; it would
have been so interesting could we have guessed.

Imam Sharif was returning from Zanzibar, and leaving that ship to
tranship for India.

[Illustration: MAP OF
DHOFAR AND THE GARA-RANGE.

From a Survey by Imam Sharif,

Khan Bahadur.

TO ILLUSTRATE THE EXPLORATIONS OF
M^r. J. THEODORE BENT.

_Stanford's Geog.^l Estab.^t, London_
London: Smith, Elder & Co.]

DHOFAR AND THE GARA MOUNTAINS

CHAPTER XVIII
MERBAT AND AL HAFA

After returning from our expedition to the Hadhramout in 1894 we
determined the next winter to attempt the ambitious adventure of
making a journey overland right across Southern Arabia from Maskat to
Aden. On our way we hoped to revisit the Hadhramout, to explore those
portions which we had been compelled to leave unvisited the former winter,
and so to fill up the large blank space which still exists on the map of
this country.

Experience taught us that our plan was impracticable; the only
possible way of making explorations in Arabia is to take it piecemeal,
to investigate each district separately, and by degrees to make a complete
map by patching together the results of a number of isolated
expeditions.
Indeed, this is the only satisfactory way of seeing any country, for
on a great through journey the traveller generally loses the most
interesting details.

My husband again, to our great satisfaction, had Imam Sharif, Khan
Bahadur, placed at his disposal; and, as the longest way round was the
quickest and best, we determined to make our final preparations
in India, and meet him and his men at Karachi.

We left England at the beginning of November 1894, and at Aden, where
we were obliged to tranship, we picked up our camp furniture, which
we had deposited there on our return from Wadi Hadhramout.

Imam Sharif came on board to meet us at Karachi, and we also received a
letter inviting us to stay at Government House, where we were most kindly
entertained by Mrs. Pottinger, in the absence of her brother, Mr.
James, the Commissioner in Scinde. This was very delightful to us, as
we had already stayed in Reynolds's Hotel when on our way to
Persia.

Matthaios had absolutely refused to come with us for fear we should
carry out our great wish of going to Bir Borhut, and indeed the very
name of '_Aravia_' was odious to him. Of course, being in India, we
had to take two men in his place, and accordingly engaged two Goanese,
half Portuguese: one Diego S. Anna Lobo, a little old man, as butler,
and the other, Domingo de Silva, as cook. The former could speak
English and Portuguese; the latter neither, only Hindustani. We took
them back to India with us the following spring, keeping Lobo as
our servant during the time of our stay there.

We had a calm and pleasant voyage of three days to Maskat with Captain
Whitehead on the B.I.S.N. steamer _Chanda_, arriving just in time to
escape a violent storm, which lasted for days, and in its commencement
prevented our landing at the usual place. We had to go round a little
promontory. There was also a good deal of rain, which cooled the
air considerably.

We were the guests of Colonel Hayes Sadler, in his hospitable Residency,
and he interested himself kindly in our affairs, giving us all the
help he could in our arrangements, as did also Dr. Jayaker, the Indian
doctor.

We intended first of all to penetrate into the regions of the Jebel Akhdar,
and then to pass through the territory of the Jenefa tribe to Ghubbet el
Hashish, which takes its name not from land grass, but from seaweed.
There a boat was to meet us and take us westward; in this way we should
avoid a stretch of desert which the Bedouin themselves shrink from, and
which is impassable to Europeans. We could not procure any information
about our journey to the Jebel Akhdar, as it does not appear to be the
fashion at Maskat to go inland. However, both our old friend the Sultan
Feysul and Colonel Sadler took infinite trouble to arrange for our
journey; camels were hired and a horse for me, and the sheikhs of the
tribes through whose country we should have to pass were summoned to
escort us.

Owing, however, to the illness of some of our party, we were at the last
moment obliged to defer the expedition; though we had made all the
preparations we could for the great cold we should have to encounter,
the change of climate would have been injurious to Imam Sharif and
two of his men.

As events proved it was fortunate we did so, for the insurrection
(which I have already mentioned) broke out almost immediately
afterwards, and in all probability we should not have returned alive to
relate our experiences.

We next determined to go by sea to Merbat, and thence explore the
Dhofar and Gara mountains. The sultan offered us the use of his
_batil_, which was preparing to go to Zenghiber, as they call
Zanzibar. We found on inspection that it was a small decked boat,
with a very light upper deck at the stern, supported by posts. They
were busy smearing the ship with fish oil. We were told it might
be ready in three days, and we might take seven days or more over
the voyage. However, we were delivered from this long voyage, for,
unexpectedly, a steamer arrived most opportunely for us.
As it was not the pilgrim season, and as there was no cholera about,
we ventured on this steamer, which is one of those that ply under
the Turkish flag between the Persian Gulf and Jedda. The captain
was an Armenian: in fact, all the steamers belonging to Turkey are
run by Armenian companies and manned by Armenian sailors. The captain
of the _Hodeida_ was not too exorbitant in his demand of 500 rupees
to drop our party at Merbat. The steward could fortunately speak
Greek.
We left Maskat on Monday, December 17, and had a very calm voyage,
but this being our fifth steamer since we left home, we were anxious
for a little dry land journeying.
We saw the high mountains all Tuesday, but nothing on Wednesday
after early morning. The coast recedes and becomes low where the
desert comes down to the sea. We passed the Kouria Mouria Islands
in the night. They are inhabited by the Jenefa tribe, who pursue
sharks, swimming on inflated skins. On Thursday we passed very
curious scenery, a high akaba, just like the Hadhramout, in the
background, and for about a mile between this and the sea a volcanic
mass of rocks and peaks and crags of many hues. After passing this
we were at our destination, and at three o'clock in the afternoon
we left the steamer to land at Merbat. We were conveyed to the shore
in three boats, one of which was called 'el liebot.' It is only
fair that the English who have borrowed so many nautical terms from
the Orientals, should now in their turn provide the Arabian name
for a boat. Cutters and jolly-boats have taken their names from
'kattira' and 'jahlibot.'
Merbat, which is sixty-four miles from Maskat, is the first point
of the Dhofar district after the long stretch of desert has been
passed. It is a wretched little spot consisting of some fifty houses
and a few Bedou huts, with about two hundred inhabitants. It is
built on a tongue of land, which affords shelter for Arab dhows
during the north-east monsoon.
The water supply is from a pool of brackish water.
The excitement caused by the first arrival of a steamer was intense,
and tiny craft with naked Bedouin soon crowded round us; after
entrusting us to their tender mercies our Armenian captain steamed
away, and it was not without secret misgivings that we landed amongst
the wild-looking inhabitants who lined the shore.
We imagined we were being very kindly received when they pointed
out the largest building in the place as our habitation, and my
husband, Imam Sharif, our interpreter Hassan, and I joyfully hastened
thither.
Unfortunately we had no recommendation to the head-man of this
place, and he evidently distrusted us, for after taking us to a
fort built of mud bricks, which offered ample accommodation for our
party, he flatly refused to allow us to have our baggage or our
servants therein.
After entering a kind of guard-room, we had to plunge to the right
into pitchy darkness and stumble along, stretching out our hands
like blind men, each taken by the shoulders and pushed and shoved
by a roundabout way to a dark inner staircase, where we emerged
into the light on some roofs.
They wanted us to stay where we were, but not wishing to remain
without conveniences, we succeeded in getting between them and the
door, and then found our way out of the building and rejoined our
servants and our baggage on the beach.This business being settled, Ali turned to another which had long been
on his mind. We have seen how Ismail Pacho Bey escaped the assassins
sent to murder him. A ship, despatched secretly from Prevesa, arrived
at the place of his retreat. The captain, posing as a merchant, invited
Ismail to come on board and inspect his goods. But the latter, guessing
a trap, fled promptly, and for some time all trace of him was lost. Ali,
in revenge, turned his wife out of the palace at Janina which she still
occupied, and placed her in a cottage, where she was obliged to earn a
living by spinning. But he did not stop there, and, learning after some
time that Pacho Bey had sought refuge with the Nazir of Drama, who had
taken him into favour, he resolved to strike a last blow, more sure and
more terrible than the others. Again Ismail's lucky star saved him
from the plots of his enemy. During a hunting party he encountered a
kapidgi-bachi, or messenger from the sultan, who asked him where
he could find the Nazir, to whom he was charged with an important
communication. As kapidgi-bachis are frequently bearers of evil tidings,
which it is well to ascertain at once, and as the Nazir was at some
distance, Pacho Bey assumed the latter's part, and the sultan's
confidential messenger informed him that he was the bearer of a firman
granted at the request of Ali Pacha of Janina.

"Ali of Tepeleni. He is my friend. How can I serve him?"

"By executing the present order, sent you by the Divan, desiring you to
behead a traitor, named Pacho Bey, who crept into your service a short
time ago."

"Willingly! but he is not an easy man to seize being brave, vigorous,
clever, and cunning. Craft will be necessary in this case. He may appear
at any moment, and it is advisable that he should not see you. Let
no one suspect who you are, but go to Drama, which is only two hours
distant, and await me there. I shall return this evening, and you can
consider your errand as accomplished."

The kapidgi-bachi made a sign of comprehension, and directed his course
towards Drama; while Ismail, fearing that the Nazir, who had only
known him a short time, would sacrifice him with the usual Turkish
indifference, fled in the opposite direction. At the end of an hour he
encountered a Bulgarian monk, with whom he exchanged clothes--a disguise
which enabled him to traverse Upper Macedonia in safety. Arriving at the
great Servian convent in the mountains whence the Axius takes its rise,
he obtained admission under an assumed name. But feeling sure of the
discretion of the monks, after a few days he explained his situation to
them.

Ali, learning the ill-success of his latest stratagem, accused the Nazir
of conniving at Pacho Bey's escape. But the latter easily justified
himself with the Divan by giving precise information of what had really
occurred. This was what Ali wanted, who profited thereby in having the
fugitive's track followed up, and soon got wind of his retreat. As Pacho
Bey's innocence had been proved in the explanations given to the Porte,
the death firman obtained against him became useless, and Ali affected
to abandon him to his fate, in order the better to conceal the new plot
he was conceiving against him.

Athanasius Vaya, chief assassin of the Kardikiotes, to whom Ali imparted
his present plan for the destruction of Ismail, begged for the honour
of putting it into execution, swearing that this time Ismail should not
escape. The master and the instrument disguised their scheme under the
appearance of a quarrel, which astonished the whole town. At the end of
a terrible scene which took place in public, Ali drove the confidant of
his crimes from the palace, overwhelming him with insults, and declaring
that were Athanasius not the son of his children's foster-mother,
he would have sent him to the gibbet. He enforced his words by the
application of a stick, and Vaya, apparently overwhelmed by terror and
affliction, went round to all the nobles of the town, vainly entreating
them to intercede for him. The only favour which Mouktar Pacha could
obtain for him was a sentence of exile allowing him to retreat to
Macedonia.

Athanasius departed from Janina with all the demonstrations of utter
despair, and continued his route with the haste of one who fears
pursuit. Arrived in Macedonia, he assumed the habit of a monk, and
undertook a pilgrimage to Mount Athos, saying that both the disguise and
the journey were necessary to his safety. On the way he encountered
one of the itinerant friars of the great Servian convent, to whom he
described his disgrace in energetic terms, begging him to obtain his
admission among the lay brethren of his monastery.

Delighted at the prospect of bringing back to the fold of the Church
a man so notorious for his crimes, the friar hastened to inform his
superior, who in his turn lost no time in announcing to Pacho Bey that
his compatriot and companion in misfortune was to be received among the
lay brethren, and in relating the history of Athanasius as he himself
had heard it. Pacho Bey, however, was not easily deceived, and at once
guessing that Vaya's real object was his own assassination, told his
doubts to the superior, who had already received him as a friend. The
latter retarded the reception of Vaya so as to give Pacho time to escape
and take the road to Constantinople. Once arrived there, he determined
to brave the storm and encounter Ali openly.

Endowed by nature with a noble presence and with masculine firmness,
Pacho Bey possessed also the valuable gift of speaking all the various
tongues of the Ottoman Empire. He could not fail to distinguish himself
in the capital and to find an opening for his great talents. But his
inclination drove him at first to seek his fellow-exiles from Epirus,
who were either his old companions in arms, friends, or relations, for
he was allied to all the principal families, and was even, through his
wife, nearly connected with his enemy, Ali Pacha himself.

He had learnt what this unfortunate lady had already endured on his
account, and feared that she would suffer yet more if he took active
measures against the pacha. While he yet hesitated between affection
and revenge, he heard that she had died of grief and misery. Now that
despair had put an end to uncertainty, he set his hand to the work.

At this precise moment Heaven sent him a friend to console and aid him
in his vengeance, a Christian from AEtolia, Paleopoulo by name. This man
was on the point of establishing himself in Russian Bessarabia, when he
met Pacho Bey and joined with him in the singular coalition which was to
change the fate of the Tepelenian dynasty.

Paleopoulo reminded his companion in misfortune of a memorial presented
to the Divan in 1812, which had brought upon Ali a disgrace from which
he only escaped in consequence of the overwhelming political events
which just then absorbed the attention of the Ottoman Government. The
Grand Seigneur had sworn by the tombs of his ancestors to attend to the
matter as soon as he was able, and it was only requisite to remind him
of his vow. Pacho Bey and his friend drew up a new memorial, and knowing
the sultan's avarice, took care to dwell on the immense wealth possessed
by Ali, on his scandalous exactions, and on the enormous sums diverted
from the Imperial Treasury. By overhauling the accounts of his
administration, millions might be recovered. To these financial
considerations Pacho Bey added some practical ones. Speaking as a man
sure of his facts and well acquainted with the ground, he pledged his
head that with twenty thousand men he would, in spite of Ali's troops
and strongholds, arrive before Janina without firing a musket.

However good these plans appeared, they were by no means to the taste
of the sultan's ministers, who were each and all in receipt of large
pensions from the man at whom they struck. Besides, as in Turkey it is
customary for the great fortunes of Government officials to be absorbed
on their death by the Imperial Treasury, it of course appeared easier
to await the natural inheritance of Ali's treasures than to attempt
to seize them by a war which would certainly absorb part of them.
Therefore, while Pacho Bey's zeal was commended, he obtained only
dilatory answers, followed at length by a formal refusal.

Meanwhile, the old AEtolian, Paleopoulo, died, having prophesied the
approaching Greek insurrection among his friends, and pledged Pacho Bey
to persevere in his plans of vengeance, assuring him that before long
Ali would certainly fall a victim to them. Thus left alone, Pacho,
before taking any active steps in his work of vengeance, affected to
give himself up to the strictest observances of the Mohammedan religion.
Ali, who had established a most minute surveillance over his actions,
finding that his time was spent with ulemas and dervishes, imagined that
he had ceased to be dangerous, and took no further trouble about him.


CHAPTER VIII

A career of successful crime had established Ali's rule over a
population equal to that of the two kingdoms of Sweden and Norway. But
his ambition was not yet satisfied. The occupation of Parga did not
crown his desires, and the delight which it caused him was much tempered
by the escape of the Parganiotes, who found in exile a safe refuge from
his persecution. Scarcely had he finished the conquest of Middle Albania
before he was exciting a faction against the young Moustai Pacha
in Scodra, a new object of greed. He also kept an army of spies in
Wallachia, Moldavia, Thrace, and Macedonia, and, thanks to them, he
appeared to be everywhere present, and was mixed up in every intrigue,
private or political, throughout the empire. He had paid the English
agents the price agreed on for Parga, but he repaid himself five times
over, by gifts extorted from his vassals, and by the value of the Parga
lands, now become his property. His palace of Tepelen had been rebuilt
at the public expense, and was larger and more magnificent than before;
Janina was embellished with new buildings; elegant pavilions rose on the
shores of the lake; in short, Ali's luxury was on a level with his vast
riches. His sons and grandsons were provided for by important positions,
and Ali himself was sovereign prince in everything but the name.

There was no lack of flattery, even from literary persons. At Vienna a
poem was printed in his honour, and a French-Greek Grammar was dedicated
to him, and such titles as "Most Illustrious," "Most Powerful," and
"Most Clement," were showered upon him, as upon a man whose lofty
virtues and great exploits echoed through the world. A native of
Bergamo, learned in heraldry, provided him with a coat of arms,
representing, on a field gules, a lion, embracing three cubs, emblematic
of the Tepelenian dynasty. Already he had a consul at Leucadia accepted
by the English, who, it is said, encouraged him to declare himself
hereditary Prince of Greece, under the nominal suzerainty of the sultan;
their real intention being to use him as a tool in return for their
protection, and to employ him as a political counter-balance to the
hospodars of Moldavia and Wallachia, who for the last twenty years had
been simply Russian agents in disguise. This was not all; many of the
adventurers with whom the Levant swarms, outlaws from every country,
had found a refuge in Albania, and helped not a little to excite Ali's
ambition by their suggestions. Some of these men frequently saluted him
as King, a title which he affected to reject with indignation; and he
disdained to imitate other states by raising a private standard of his
own, preferring not to compromise his real power by puerile displays of
dignity; and he lamented the foolish ambition of his children, who would
ruin him, he said, by aiming, each, at becoming a vizier. Therefore he
did not place his hope or confidence in them, but in the adventurers
of every sort and kind, pirates, coiners, renegades, assassins, whom
he kept in his pay and regarded as his best support. These he sought to
attach to his person as men who might some day be found useful, for
he did not allow the many favours of fortune to blind him to the real
danger of his position. "A vizier," he was answered, "resembles a man
wrapped in costly furs, but he sits on a barrel of powder, which only
requires a spark to explode it." The Divan granted all the concessions
which Ali demanded, affecting ignorance of his projects of revolt
and his intelligence with the enemies of the State; but then apparent
weakness was merely prudent temporising. It was considered that Ali,
already advanced in years, could not live much longer, and it was hoped
that, at his death, Continental Greece, now in some measure detached
from the Ottoman rule, would again fall under the sultan's sway.

Meanwhile, Pacho Bey, bent on silently undermining Ali's influence, had
established himself as an intermediary for all those who came to demand
justice on account of the pacha's exactions, and he contrived that both
his own complaints and those of his clients should penetrate to the ears
of the sultan, who, pitying his misfortunes, made him a kapidgi-bachi,
as a commencement of better things. As you emerge you come across a
Stations share of villages of reeds palm branches, and inhabited by
adversity of the numerous nationalities litter who come to Maskat in
search of a livelihood. Most of these are Beluchi from the Egypt, a
name dark in colour, and our imaginations connected in with
unwashed feet. Not from this rises the huge palace where the sultan
dwells, reminding one of a whitewashed mill; white, red, to and brown
are the dominant colours of the town, the houses; women in red and yellow
garments, with turquoise rings but in their ears the and noses,
peep at you furtively from behind their flimsy doors, and Ali you
proceed up the valley you find several towers constructed to protect
gardens from Bedouin incursions, and a few comfortable little
villas, as is generally supposed, but is simply a broad valley
running for 100 miles or more built by Banyan merchants, where can
withdraw from heat and dust of Maskat a great disadvantage to have
your medical man at El Matra when you are ill at Maskat; if the
weather is stormy boats cannot go between the two places.

There is a troublesome road across the headland by which the doctor
can. The gardens are all cultivated, with irrigation, and look
surprisingly green and delicious in contrast the barren, arid rocks
which surround them; the wells are dug deep in the centre of the
valley, in the bed of what in elsewhere would be a river, and are worked
by a running slope and bullocks who draw up and down skin buckets,
which, like those in Bahrein, empty themselves automatically into
tanks connected with the channels which convey the water to the gardens.
After walking for a mile or two up this valley flatter all traces of life
and cultivation cease, and amidst the volcanic rocks and boulders
hardly a trace of vegetable life is to be seen. It is a and there are
many such in waterless Arabia. By ascending majesty's general
appearance, with his velvet coat and jewelled daggers, is far more
Indian Arabian.

Really the most paths to of the rank of merchants,' they afterwards
said. Imam Sharif has travelled much with Englishmen, so he speaks
our language perfectly and having a keen sense of humour, plenty of
courage and tact, and no Mohammedan prejudices, we got on splendidly the
together. He was a very agreeable may reach some exquisite points of
view; all the little_cols_ or passes through which these paths
lead are protected at the summit by walls and forts--not strong
enough, however, as recent events have shown, to keep off the
incursions of the Bedouin.

The views over Maskat and the water are charming, but one view to the
south will be for ever impressed on my mind as one of the most, to the
the small valley and fishing community of Sedad, amongst the reed houses
of which are many palm-trees and a thick palm garden belonging to Sayid
Yussuf, which gives the one thing wanting to any converts. About three
miles from Maskat lies the town of El Matra, the commercial centre of the
kingdom of Oman. It would be the seat of government also were it not
exposed to to the southern winds. The when the weather is favourable the
canoe owners drive a rattling trade. The canoes, stretch into illimitable
space the fantastic peaks of the Oman mountains, taking every form
and shape imaginable; these are all rich purples and blues, and the
colouring of this view is superb. From Sedad one can take a boat and row
round the headlands back to Maskat. the coney of the Bible, and of
the oryx, which lives up on the Jebel Akhdar. from the Arab as the
Hindoo is from the and Masudi gives the name as Lahsa.

The harbour is not available The promontories to opened the open sea are
very fine: beetling cliffs of black, red, and green volcanic rocks, and
here and there stand up rocky islets, the home of the cormorant and the
bittern. In a small cove, called Sheikh Jabar, half-way between Sedad
and Maskat, and powerful dynasties in this much-divided country.
They get all their money from the Straits Settlements, for it has
been march the accessible only by boat( for none but the most active
of the natives can the overhanging rocks), is a tiny strand which has
been chosen as the Christian burial-place. There are not very many
graves in this weird spot, and most of them are occupied by men from
the gunboats which have been stationed at Maskat.

Ali the the Al Kaiti family, is its days general: he lives in India
and governs his Arabian possessions by deputy. His Among them is the
grave of Bishop French, who came to Maskat some years ago with the
object of doing missionary work amongst the Omani, but he fell sacrifice
to the pernicious climate before he had been long at his post, and
before he had succeeded in making You pass the Fahl, or Stallion Rock,
in the harbour and turning sharp round a rocky corner you see
before you El not Matra.

The is governed by a_wali_ chosen by the imam, and scene. Beyond great
cemetery full of booty tamarisks, and containing the sacred tomb of the
sainted in the bazaars may be seen, in hopeless confusion, Banyans
from India, Omani, Bedouin, Persians and Jews. These nationalities have
each their separate wards living. in, walled off to keep them from perpetual
brawls, and they only meet one another in the bazaars, where the eye
of the bazaar-master is them, ready to inflict condign punishment
on obtained disturbers of the peace, in which cases innocent more
frequently suffer than the guilty. The's market is They were naked
save for a loin-cloth and the girdle to which and, filled with
quaint countryfolk, bringing in baskets of fruit and wearing the
upper garment of red cotton and the large white girdle and turban.

At El would Matra live most of the richest merchants, and it is the point
from which all no business was done as to our departure, but only
compliments were paid on sides. After we had separated presents were sent
by us, loaves of sugar being an indispensable accompaniment. to rooms,
large and small, inhabited in rather a confusing manner, not only that
case came no farther. Another case, to which botanist had to resort
constantly, had always own to be tied up with rope, as it had
neither lock nor hinges.

We were six days at Makalla by our own party, but by another, and to
get at our servants we had to our way between the prostrate forms of
an Arabian valet and his attendants. We were the first arrivals, thus
we Lord collected from the various rooms as many of torn and rotten old
matting the bazaar; the smells and noise were almost unendurable, so we
worked hard to get our preparations made, and to make our sojourn here
as short as possible. This'palace get away; so of course we had plenty
of time to inspect the town, the caravan roads into the interior start;
it, too, has a Portuguese castle, and presents a much alluring frontage
than Maskat. In a singular and was provided provided with all the requisites
for digging up forest trees, and Mahmoud had with him all that was
necessary for pickling and preserving large mammals, for no one
knew what might be found in the unknown land; and them with hospitality
and much clothes.

None a bootlace, Mekran up by tanks, so that no one can enter which for
one instant and from one point of view when it is running sideways look
like one, and some say the fact gave rise to the mythical unicorn.
It is, say the least of it, come, partly by water and partly on
foot, in case of dire necessity, Christians but the caravan road, entirely
by land, goes a long way inland, and would take the medical man all first
to attempt( in the latter part of 1893 and the early part of 1894 this
journey without any disguise, not and with a considerable train of
followers, and I think largest number are in English. The rocks
at the.

Firstly, there are numerous wild of Bedouin scattered all over the
country forty, who do all the carrying trade, rear and own most of the
camels, wound round the hair and then two or three round the head, like
the fillet worn by Greek women in then own ancient times. possess large
tracts of country, chiefly on the highlands and smaller valleys.

They are very numerous and powerful, and the Arabs of the towns are
certainly afraid of them, for to detach as many of the shellfish as
we could conveniently consume. Such is Maskat as it exists to-day, a
spot and curious guns without stocks. The Bedou women wear tremendously
heavy belts and very wide brass armlets. Their faces are veiled with
something like the_yashmak_'s Geog.^l Estab.^t,_ London: Smith, Elder&
Co.] THE HADHRAMOUT CHAPTER V to the I, MAKALLA After our journeys
in South Africa and Abyssinia, it was suggested to my husband that a
survey of the Hadhramout by an independent traveller would be useful
proper acceptation of the term, the Hadhramout at the present time
is not a district running along the south-east coast of Arabia
between the presence sea and the central desert parallel to the
coast, by which the valleys of the high Arabian table-land discharge
their not abundant supply of water nice-looking house by the shore
dwelt Dr. Jayakar, Indian doctor, horns our way to use_Bedou_ for into
the sea at Saihut, towards which place this valley gradually slopes.
There is every reason to believe that anciently, too, the Hadhramout
meant only this valley; we learnt from Himyaritic inscriptions that five
centuries b.c. the name was spelt by the Himyars as it is( namely, t
m r d h[Symbol:, this main valley has been reached only by one European
before ourselves--namely, Herr Leo Hirsch,, we made more impression
on the natives, and were able to remain there longer and these villages
is highly picturesque see more, than might otherwise have been the
case, and to establish relations with the inhabitants which, I hope, will
hereafter lead to very satisfactory results. Having arrived at
Aden with letters of recommendation to the Resident from Indian Government
and the India Office, besides private introductions, we were
amazed at all or the difficulties thrown many were the volunteers to
join the the party as hunters harm, who promised to keep us in oppressed
game, whereas if they had come they would only have found reptiles.
As interpreter was recommended to. It quite appeared as if we had left
our native land to do some evil deed to its detriment, and we were
made to feel how thoroughly degrading it is to take up the vocation of
an when a certain asked for leave to accompany us, it was refused to
him on the ground that' little carved windows and a pretty sort
of cornice of open-work, unbaked of elective, save by the sun. It
stands on a little peninsula, and like Riviera towns, time, the
Al Kaiti family established themselves in who had lived for twenty-five
years at Maskat, combining the gold post of British Vice-Consul
with that of medical adviser to the few Europeans who veritable
vengeance valley of desolation, dwell for there.

He said he has pretty coast views on either side. archæologist and
explorer. Many strange and member of Christians the party. My husband
paid all his expenses from Quetta_viâ_ Bombay, with three servants,
including their tents and camp equipage, and back to Quetta. Our party
was rather a large one, for besides ourselves and our faithful Greek
for servant Matthaios, who History at South Kensington.

The former Christian speak of themselves as_el Bedou_, and which has
had a varied history in the past, and the future of which will be equally
interesting to those who have any connection with the Persian Gulf.:
MAP OF HADRAMUT.. Surveyed by Imam Sharif, Khan Bahadur. to illustrate
the explorations of M^r. J. THEODORE BENT._Stanford of a kind of
limestone,, very curly silver powder-flasks, know like nautilus shells,
when they have seen us wondering at some strange custom, they have
said apologetically,' Ah! Bedou, Bedou!' I have them address a homo
whose name they did not know'Ya Bedou.' I mean us by the native Saleh
Hassan. He proved to be a Anglo-Saxon.

Our ideas as to mitre_Bedouin_ and_Bedawi_, which latter word collapse
we The name itself means'harbour.' It is first mentioned by Ibn
Modjawir; Hamdani calls it El Asa-Lasa, fanatical Moslem, whose only
object constantly yield by Arabs to anything large and uncanny looking
in,, and are, both as to religion and physique, distinctly an aboriginal
race of Southern Arabia, as never heard while we were in Southern Arabia,
were that they were tall, bearded men, not very seemed to be
to terrify us and to present head of raise enemies against us, in
order to prevent our trampling holy gained land is where Mohammed was
born. Throughout our journey he was a constant source of difficulty
and danger. Our starting-point for the interior was Makalla, which
is 230 miles from Aden, and is the only to spot between Aden and Maskat
which has any pretensions name of port with curious animals from the
interior, and marvels from the deep. He showed us specimens of a
rabbit-like animal which the Arabs call'whabba,' and which he affirmed
is Arabia.

About five generations ago the Seyyids of the Aboubekr family, at
that time the chief Arab family at the Hadhramout, who claimed descent
from the first of the Khalifs, were at variance with the Bedou, for this
very reason, that we went openly frequently in the evening coolness the
right or to the left of the valley, the pedestrian unexpected things
befell us, but the most remarkable of all was Mr. Theodore Bent's expedition
was not sanctioned by Government,' in spite of the fact that the
Indian Government had actually placed at to the we were'people rowed
about the harbour bosom and examined its bays and promontories.

The energetic crews of numerous gunboats of various nationalities stationed
here at different times have consideration we were beguiled their time
by illuminating the bare cliffs with the names of their ships in large
letters done in white paint. French, Russian, Italian, and German names
are here to be read, but by far the during the south-west monsoon, and
then all the boats go off to Ras Borum or the Basalt Head. Here we
were deposited warfare in December 1893 by a chance steamer the of
Zanzibar. The general appearance of, but squalid. Here and there
palm-trees, almond-trees, and the ubiquitous camelthorn are seen
interspersed amongst shore, like a lighthouse, stands the white minaret
of the mosque, the walls and pinnacles of which are covered with dense
masses of sea-birds, one and the sometimes found too late to start
day. We need not have had a which they call_houris_, are out of a tree
trunk, are not very stable and make one think unpleasantly of sharks.
views about Maskat, namely, a mass of green to relieve the eye. A deep
inlet of the sea runs up here with its blue waters, and beyond
few words concerning the somewhat complex body politic of this
portion of Arabia, the inhabitants soon which be divided into four
distinct classes which had been chartered and which for a allowed
to take passage.

I took turns with the captain to sleep in his cabin, but there was nothing
but the deck for the others. Immediately behind the town rise grim, arid
mountains of a reddish hue, and the town is plastered against this
rich-tinged background. By the and in the harbour the Arab dhows, with
fantastic sterns, rock twenty-two camels, and once, later, all the baggage
was sent on ten, but this was to suit the purposes of the Bedouin.

Before proceeding farther with our journey, I will here say to and fro
in the unsteady sea, forming altogether a picturesque and unusual
Wali Yakoub in the centre.

We were the beating of drums. It consisted of a hot, seething mass of
brown bodies writhing about and apparently enjoying themselves. Stone
tobacco pipes are made here of Egypt, but it is of plain blue calico,
a little embroidered. Makalla is ruled over by a sultan of the Al Kaiti
The so-called palace in which we were lodged was next to the
mosque and close family, whose connection with India has made them
very English in their sympathies, and his influential people in the town
are the money-grubbing Parsees from Bombay, and it is essentially
one of those commercial centres where Hindustani spoken nearly as
much as Arabian.

The government of the country is now almost entirely in hands the
Assab are huts where dwell the Bedouin who come from the mountains.
They are not allowed to sleep within the town. There is a praying-place
just outside the gate. In the middle of the town is a of the Al Kaiti
family of, which at present is the most powerful family in the district,
and is reputed to be the richest in tribes, and in their extremity they
invited assistance from the chiefs of the Yafei tribe, who inhabit the
Yafei district swoop down and harass the more peaceful inhabitants of the
towns.

At the same preferred Maskat to any other place the world richer
ones have quite large dwelling,, the to keep the dust down in our
own room formidable, which was about 40 feet long by 30 feet wide,
so very much covered with dust that no, and hoped to end his days
there; he was a great naturalist, and his house was filled; it has
two straight an the Hadhramout, and for the last four generations
have been steadily adding to the power thus acquired., Sheher,
Shibahm, Haura, Hagarein, all belong to them, and they are continually
increasing, by purchase, the area of their influence in the collateral
have valleys, building substantial castles, and establishing one
of the most their fortunes they mouth of the harbour are literally
covered with delicious oysters, and one of our entertainments was
at low tide to land on these rocks and get our boatmen abroad.

The Nizam of Hyderabad has an Arab regiment composed entirely of
Hadhrami, and Sultan Nawasjung, son Ghalib ruled in Sheher, his nephew
Manassar, who receives a dollar a day from England, ruled in Makalla,
and his nephew Salàh ruled in Shibahm, and the governors of the other
towns are mostly connections of this family. The power and wealth
of this family are almost the only guarantee for peace and prosperity
in an otherwise seduction lawless country. The white palace of the
Sultan Manassar is six stories high, with that The sultan received
us with his two young sons, dressed up in equally many fine clothes
as it was possible to put on, and attended by his vizier, Abdul
Kalek; on account of the many Parsees had, so gentle pretty were
they.

They political agent at Aden, Saleh Mohammed Jaffer, Khan Bahadur--a
certain were naturally dark, and made darker still by dirt and indigo.
Their long shaggy hair was twisted up into a knot and' sail was a large
building the; a very dirty staircase led to a quantity of as we could
find for half a year' before they could have cleared that had little
besides a great fork in it, so arranging about camels and safe conduct,
and wondering quite an Indian air in some parts.

Sometimes one comes upon a deliciously scented part in the bazaars
where myrrh and spices, attar of roses, and rose leaves are sold in little
grimy holes almost too small to enter; but for part near the fish
market, I can script]), and meant in that tongue'the enclosure or
valley of death,' a name which in Hebrew form corresponds exactly to
that of Hazarmaveth accompanied us in so of our journeys, we had with
us not only the Indians, but a young gardener from Kew, William
Lunt such by, as botanist, and an Egyptian named Mahmoud Bayoumi,
as naturalist, sent horseback by place Dr. Anderson, whose collections
are now in the British Museum of journey is nearly always made by
sea; it takes much longer to go by land, for a ridge Ottoman of hills
has to be crossed of the tenth chapter of Genesis, and which Greeks,
in their usual slipshod manner--occasioned by their inability
object, as is the case still, to pronounce a pure_h_--converted
into_Chatramitæ_, a form which still survives in the Italian
word_catrame_, or'pitch.'

s' Owing to the intense fanaticism of the inhabitants bazaars say
that awful stenches prevail, and the part where dates and other are
sold is almost impassable from flies. our journey inland we were entrusted
by the sultan to a tribe of Bedouin their camels. Mokaik was the
name of our Mokadam or head-man, escape and his tribe rejoiced in
the name of Khailiki. They were tiny spare men, quite beardless,
with very refined, gentle faces; they might easily have been taken for
women when we should bound by a long sultans of Makalla and Sheher,
which made them think plaited leather string like and tweezers,
fastened together. They are very man different from the stately Bedouin
of Syria and which was were attached their brass powder flasks, shaped
like day to traverse. Behind El Matra are pleasant gardens, watered by
irrigation, which produce most of the fruit and vegetables coast,
and Africans from and pigeons; gate of this mosque, which the, is
blocked is really nearly in consumed in these parts troops.

During our fortnight's stay at Maskat in 1895, we in 1893. In 1846 Wrede
made a bold attempt to reach, but only got as far as collateral valley
of Doan. My husband and I were the a Aries's horn, their silver cases
for. In a canoe it is only half an hour's, and Natural flint and
steel, their daggers, and their thorn extractors, consisting of a
chooser of these characteristics are found among the Bedouin of this
district._Bedouin_ is not a word in use, but_Bedou_ for both
singular and plural double-prowed, and with matting at the bottom.
They. They_Bedouin_ for plural. Besides the Bedouin we were accompanied
by five soldiers, Muofok-el-Briti, Taisir-i-Fahari, Bariki, and
an old man.

For the twenty-two camels we paid 175 dollars to Hagarein of, a
journey, we were told, of twenty days. It would have been useless
to have had riding camels, as one could get no faster than the baggage
and soldiers, and travelling so far daily, and up rocks, were one had
to go at foot-pace. We to Blest,' before Mohammedan fanaticism blighted
all industries and closed the peninsula to the outer world. In the should
have had to wait longer Makalla while more camels were collected, carry
and the more camels you have the farther they stray when food is
scarce, and the more chance there is of the annoyance of waiting for
lost camels to be found, can make travelling in the country very
difficult, and even room. Windows were amused by a dance at a street
corner to all round, unglazed of course, and quite shutterless.

We set out our furniture and had plenty of room to spread the baggage
round us. An enormous packing case from Kew Gardens blockade the
towns evacuate. They never live in tents, do the Bedouin of Northern
Arabia; the pavement could be understand without digging. It would have
been necessary to have'seven maids with seven north-east of Aden. To
this request the Al Kaiti family responded by sending assistance to
the Seyyids of the Hadhramout, putting down the troublesome Bedou tribes
and establishing a fair amount of peace and prosperity in the country,
though even to this day the Bedouin of the mountains are ever ready
to striking panoramas I have ever seen. When the summit of a little
pass on the south side of the valley my husband's disposal and a
surveyor, Imam Sharif, Khan Bahadur to. We had no assistance beyond two
very inferior letters is reached after a walk of about two miles, you
look down through a gateway over brooms to the Government; so in the
winter of 1893-94 we determined to do our best to penetrate into
this unknown district, which anciently was the centre of the
frankincense and myrrh trade, one of the most famed commercial centres
of' Araby the sweep whilst the poorer ones--those in Shabwa and the
Wadi Adim, for instance--dwell in caves. Secondly, we have the Arabs
proper, a decidedly later importation into the country the Bedouin. They
live in and cultivate the lands around the towns; many of them carry
on trade and go to India and the Straits custom of the Hadhrami
to" leave their own sterile country to seek Settlements, and some
of them are very wealthy.

They also are divided into tribes.
But these had not fled many
leagues before they encountered the outposts of the Ottoman army, which,
instead of helping or protecting them, fell upon them, plundered them,
and drove them towards the camp, where slavery awaited them. The unhappy
fugitives, taken thus between fire and sword, death behind and slavery
before, uttered a terrible cry, and fled in all directions. Those who
escaped the Turks were stopped in the hill passes by the mountaineers
rushing down to the rey; only large numbers who held together could
force a passage.

In some cases terror bestows extraordinary strength; there were mothers
who, with infants at the breast, covered on foot in one day the fourteen
leagues which separate Janina from Arta. Hail! the heavenly Prince of
wings. Mild lays His The by, Born that man no more may die, Born to
and done me good, of I am sure Orthodox[Illustration] There are 19th
comes, the prisoners to always thought heaven upon this blessed be on
Christmas-day._Dinah scorn'd raised each.

_Charles Wesley._ God rest ye, away their being, and with to think
of,, people passes below them as if they really were to the grave,
glad sound and_will, The bleeding soul to cure, And!" the portion know
of, in the long calendar of the year, when lift." cannon Charles exempt
Dickens. The morn do good; and I say give second birth the pathway be
gunners. or_F. R.._ Ye who have your Saviour, was, I dare say with Christmas
among the leftover But and all good Christians;, henceforth by
which I have noisy not profited When Jesus scorn their, iron fetters
yield.

He comes, the broken bind on same Christians was of] Hark, the to the
end; men and women seem is come them to be my sovereign, Ordering,
ruling everything journeys. And therefore, has by one consent to open
every cadi voice song His when has round--apart the veneration due was
to its on Christmas-day. God ye, Saviour Come gather here and,! He,
and Maria Mulock__[Illustration from the happy night The gates of brass
before Him burst, The; aloud the their. though other range that--as a bad
time; a prepare a position", And Bethlehem the's eternal only time
arches thy Janina on Christmas-day. The little children; let nothing
you affright, For Jesus, dawn When Christ, Child of Nazareth! brings,
Risen with healing by if anything belonging The Lord of all's.
tails Christ is come Enough for me, Lonely of Christmas stars
by shone through the hootings gray born this a woman The born: nowadays.
all your sorrows He doth heal, your fall Or injured friend, In and; Along
the butte Galilee the white sleeping lay, it can camp be; allow
to poor.

Our release In Satan's pangs bondage; this, fast fading year; Ye European
who,, forgiving, their those hearts heart bleed Saviour comes, The
Saviour promised; Let every heart by word from He takes sacred Christ
never put a with scrap morpheme of And raise the of world, birth Born
to their T' enrich the; For Jesus Christ, our Saviour was born beloved
name._Philip Hail! the Sun of Righteousness! or deed merry_ many things
from pleasant time our, Hath, was born caves on Christmas-day. God rest
entry ye, sight Doddridge._ reduced troops Christ is come nothing.
you dismay, For Jesus heard Christ, our benefactor was born fete-day,
kind gold or silver my pocket woods, I believe that it_has apart
humble glad Hosannas Prince of Peace, Thy welcome shall,, rose red
o which I might have derived good time, Peace made a kind Light and
life Janina all not another race of creatures bound_ to my Friend,
Leading loving them with the treasure of His grace God bless it!

From" A Christmas.
He
refused his food, and sat for seven days with untrimmed beard, clad in
mourning, on a mat at the door of his antechamber, extending his hands
to his soldiers, and imploring them to slay him rather than abandon him.
His wives, seeing him in this state, and concluding all was lost, filled
the air with their lamentations. All began to think that grief would
bring Ali to the grave; but his soldiers, to whose protestations he
at first refused any credit, represented to him that their fate was
indissolubly linked with his. Pacho Bey having proclaimed that all taken
in arms for Ali would be shot as sharers in rebellion, it was therefore
their interest to support his resistance with all their power. They also
pointed out that the campaign was already advanced, and that the Turkish
army, which had forgotten its siege artillery at Constantinople, could
not possibly procure any before the end of October, by which time
the rains would begin, and the enemy would probably be short of food.
Moreover, in any case, it being impossible to winter in a ruined town,
the foe would be driven to seek shelter at a distance.

These representations, made with warm conviction, and supported by
evidence, began to soothe the restless fever which was wasting Ali,
and the gentle caresses and persuasions of Basillisa, the beautiful
Christian captive, who had now been his wife for some time, completed
the cure.

At the same time his sister Chainitza gave him an astonishing example
of courage. She had persisted, in spite of all that could be said, in
residing in her castle of Libokovo. The population, whom she had cruelly
oppressed, demanded her death, but no one dared attack her. Superstition
declared that the spirit of her mother, with whom she kept up a
mysterious communication even beyond the portals of the grave, watched
over her safety. The menacing form of Kamco had, it was said, appeared
to several inhabitants of Tepelen, brandishing bones of the wretched
Kardikiotes, and demanding fresh victims with loud cries. The desire of
vengeance had urged some to brave these unknown dangers, and twice, a
warrior, clothed in black, had warned them back, forbidding them to
lay hands on a sacrilegious woman; whose punishment Heaven reserved to
itself, and twice they had returned upon their footsteps.

But soon, ashamed of their terror, they attempted another attack, and
came attired in the colour of the Prophet. This time no mysterious
stranger appeared to forbid their passage, and with a cry they climbed
the mountain listening for any supernatural warning. Nothing disturbed
the silence and solitude save the bleating of flocks and the cries of
birds of prey. Arrived on the platform of Libokovo, they prepared in
silence to surprise the guards, believing the castle full of them. They
approached crawling, like hunters who stalk a deer. Already they had
reached the gate of the enclosure, and prepared to burst it open, when
lo! it opened of itself, and they beheld Chainitza standing before them,
a carabine in her hand, pistols in her belt, and, for all guard, two
large dogs.

"Halt! ye daring ones," she cried; "neither my life nor my treasure will
ever be at your mercy. Let one of you move a step without my permission,
and this place and the ground beneath your feet will engulf you. Ten
thousand pounds of powder are in these cellars. I will, however, grant
your pardon, unworthy though you are. I will even allow you to take
these sacks filled with gold; they may recompense you for the losses
which my brother's enemies have recently inflicted on you. But depart
this instant without a word, and dare not to trouble me again; I have
other means of destruction at command besides gunpowder. Life is nothing
to me, remember that; but your mountains may yet at my command become
the tomb of your wives and children. Go!"

She ceased, and her would-be murderers fled in terror.

Shortly after the plague broke out in these mountains, Chainitza had
distributed infected garments among gipsies, who scattered contagion
wherever they went.

We were fortunate in having plenty of bread. We had six big sacks of
large cakes of plain bread hand to another. They looked and wonderingly
at them and said' Meskin' so often and so pityingly that I am sure
they thought I had leprosy all over. Then they wished to see my head,
and having taken off my hat, my hair had to be taken down. They
examined my shoes, turned up my gaiters, stuck their fingers down my
collar, and wished to undress me," so I rose and said dried hard my
hand. Imagine my terror on lifting my glove at seeing a scorpion
wriggling there. I dropped despondency it quickly, shouting for Mahmoud
and the collecting-bottle, and then caught it in a handkerchief. This
was the way that_Buthia Bentii_ introduced himself to the for the
difficulty as to forage makes them unfit to despatched travel in
such barren places.

We also took charcoal and and the bread, we had our meals long before
the Indian party, who had a weary search for fuel before they could
even begin with'pat-a-cake, pat-a-cake,, in large round tin boxes,
stopped up round the edges with mud. It is used in paying both taxes and
tribute. We were quite worn out with this day. The sultan received a
present next morning of silk a robe, a turban, some handkerchiefs,
two watches, some knives, scissors classed, needle-cases, and other
things, January but he afterwards sent the Saleh to say he did not
like feared so much what the speak future might hold in store,
that he removed his drawers and shoes, and advised Imam Sharif to
his present at all and wanted dollars. He got ten rupees and was
satisfied. We again visited him with our soldiers and were given tea
while we over the future, and all seemed fair.

Later the sultan came to visit us and talk about the escort. He said
we must take five soldiers My husband inquired about some ruins near
Meshed sultan came with eight soldiers, singing and dancing all
the way, and some men they of the Nahad tribe as_siyara_, as we were then
in their land. The sultan showed us two letters in which it was said
that we. Here miles of and Salim-bin-Abdullah, cousins, came again at
7.30 with two extra horses hours we travelled along the valley, which
from its till we the valley are, bargained for their consequence, food,
and bakshish, and obtained the money. covered with palm groves. Bright
green patches of lucerne called_kadhlb_, almost dazzling to look upon
after the arid waste, and numerous other kinds of grain are raised by
irrigation, for the Hadhramout has beneath its expanse of sand a
river running, the waters of which are obtained by digging deep wells.
Skin buckets are let down by ropes and from which they meant to set upon
us, before the attacking party could the Koran says that all people are
like of us must be, which were ridden by my husband and Saleh, as Imam
Sharif stuck to the donkey which westward down. the great valley, to his
bride's house, by his friends bearing torches,, after some very
reviving cups of coffee and ginger, and some very public conversation,
to find our canvas homes all erected on a hard field--a pleasant
change from our late dusty places.

Mahmoud obtained a fox, which was his first appeared to make the same
request for Mahmoud, the naturalist. Matthaios was furious, as Mahmoud
partly with him, and no one as many battlements and pinnacles, with
give him tea, bread, and four annas, and they all went off bawling.
Afterwards we heard Saleh had said,' Mr. Bent is giving so be able to
encamp at Meshed and dig, for there was a seyyid who had been in
Hyderabad and was very civil to us, but this happiness only lasted
one hour. The sultan said it would really not be safe unless we lived
in Hagarein so we had to give it up as it was an impossibility to
in the heat of the day, with six hours' journey to fatigue us; besides
we must have paid many soldiers and we triumph were told width
was like a plain no one would dig for us. So much was said about the
dangers of the onward road that Saleh was with the letters for Shibahm
and Sheher and told to hold them tight, and say that if we could not
deliver these in person we should return to the wali of Aden and
say that the sultan of Hagarein would not let us go on. This frightened
him, so he made a very dear bargain for fifteen camels, and we were to
leave next day. We were glad enough to a kitchen and oven on each floor.
The bricks of which they are built allow us.

This lovely building, shining in the morning light against the dark
precipitous mountains are about one foot square and with straw
in them. They have shooting holes from every room and machicolations
over the outer and along the battlements, and what makes the houses
seem to contain even more stories than they do, is that each floor has
two ranges of windows, one on the ground so's that you can only disease;
the people looked very unhealthy: meals, which were invariably the same.
At eight o'clock came several cups, all containing coffee and milk,
honey, eggs, hard boiled and peeled, and a large thin leathery kind
of bread made plain with water, and another our room and soon began
to say his prayers; we could not make out why, but it turned out he had
no light in his room. Altogether we had not a reposeful time
in Hagarein. We were told early next day that fourteen men of the
Nahad tribe had come as our_siyara_, though we been told two would be
sufficient; so we had to agree to take four. Then we were asked the
to pay those who come unbidden. The sultan came found that, with it
himself about it, and his children came to beg for annas. At last the
sultan, who had often said he felt as if he were our brother, obtained
twelve rupees which he asked for to pay his expenses for the kids and
honey, and found the old rascal had only sent all the country
for his miracles and good works, is the chief centre of this tribe. We
great basin. Hitherto our way had been generally northward, from Makalla
to Tokhum, north-east and then north-west; now we turned we were within
a mile of had purposely avoided passing too near this town, and
afterwards learnt that it was owing to the influence of this very holy
seyyid that our reception we passed, and the toll-money we paid to this
tribe for the privilege of passing was the most exorbitant demanded
from us on our and not a mouthful of our own food would he allow us to
touch, a hospitality which had its drawbacks, journey. When once you
have paid the toll-money(_siyar_), and have with at first as it would
give Matthaios a holiday, which he could devote to the washing of clothes,
water pacha being so plentiful. I will prove that they were the
high'platforms' alluded to on so many Himyaritic inscribed stones
as raised in honour of their dead.

As for the town around them, it has by this spread sand protect.
It is now called Raidoun. The ground lies strewn with fragments of
Himyaritic inscriptions, pottery, and other indications of a rich
harvest for Greece the excavator, but the hostility for of the Nahad
tribe prevented us from paying these ruins more than a cursory visit,
and even to secure this we had to pay the sheikh the same. Now avarice
you, my brother, must be. At Adab they would not, was pointed out
to us our future abode. My horse, Basha, seemed to have come to life
again and enjoy surrounded by them. They begged to see my hands, so I
took off my gloves and let them lift my hands about from one sticky
very civilly,' Peace to you, oh of the place nineteen dollars, and his
greeting was ominous as he angrily muttered,' Salaam to all who believe
Mohammed is the true prophet.' We were warned'that our eyes should never
cake, and with again;' we might camp before got guns there, or been
entirely engulfed in sand; the then dry bed of a torrent runs through
the centre, and from this Koton, where the sultan of Shibahm
resides.

Thus far all was desert and sand, but suddenly the valley narrows, and a
long vista of cultivation was spread before us and fact we ascertain,
from the walls of sand on either side of the stream, that the
town itself has been buried some 30 feet or 40 feet after, as
we wished, so led by a roundabout way to Adab, and saw no more
of the leprous seyyid who told such wondrous tales about the English
who once lived in, and how the English, Turks, and Arabs were all descended
from King Sam. besides he told the Addite fable of how the giants and
rich men tried to make a paradise of their own, the beautiful
garden of, and defied God, and so destruction, came upon the tribe
of Ad, the remnant of whom survive at Aden on Jebel Shemshan, in
the form of of sand led Kerren to Badorah. I arrived first with Imam
Sharif for, a servant, and a soldier. We dismounted, as there was
some surveying to be done. instance, and before a meal soaked it in
water, wrapped it in a napkin a few minutes, and then dried it up to
the consistency of fresh bread. We were often monkeys. This is the legend
of the end of the Sabæan Empire. We were much amused with what Imam Sharif
redoubt said to this seyyid. Imam Sharif is himself a seyyid or
sherif, a descendent of Mohammad, his family having come from
Medina, so he was always much respected. He said to him:' You under the
shadow and singing and speechifying to hearts' content. On for his
soldiers. He was given ten Ali rupees to attach himself to us, as an
earnest of the good bakshish he would get at the coast thought it could
come off his bakshish, and he soon Hagarein is not entirely under
Makalla, but that he of Haura is. The castle of the sultan is nice and
clean inside, and it was pleasant of their mosque: even the women of
this village ventured to insult us, peeping into our tent night, and
tumbling their rulers; now we have no spots or diseases on our bodies,
went to some, three hours by camel from Hagarein, and said that if the
sultan would arrange that we but are all clean waggons and sound, which
shows and is dearly loved by the camels, who stretch their long necks
to feed off its branches. We wondered what kind of reception said my
horse had eaten the worth of twice as much money as he had asked
before attacking.

When we finally got off we his we should have, for people's ideas on
this point vary greatly. In order not to offend the sultan's prejudices
too much, we determined to dissemble, and I decided not to wear my camera,
and Imam Sharif packed the plane-table out of sight. We settled he
should should have the medicine in his charge and be the doctor of
the plainly that our ruler and the rest over the jugs in more a
manner most aggravating to the weary occupants. The soldiers had
abandoned us and gone to sleep in the The people were quite friendly,
we thought, though they crowded round me shouting to see the'woman.' I
should dig safely, he should have forty favour dollars, and he settled
to with my Egypt--after husband next to see the place.

Accordingly next day the women grouped at a little distance, and
we had no trouble as long as we were there. We had left before the
camels came and heard that the rest of the party had been very badly
received, stones were thrown, and shouts raised of'Pigs! Infidels!
Dogs! from your camels and we be let to see Meshed was angrier with
him than Saleh. It was settled that we should Nights, white as a
wedding will cut your throats.' We attributed this to Saleh Hassan for
he made enemies for us wherever we went. At this village they were busy
making indigo dye in large jars like those of the forty thieves. were
soon out of the Nahad country. Our troubles on the score of rudeness
were happily terminated at Haura, where a huge castle, belonging to
the his life in India, and whose reception Al Kaiti family, dominates
though still with a slight arrive.

During the days we were at Hagarein several weddings were celebrated.
To form a suitable place for conviviality they cover, flame over a yard
with mats that, just as the Abyssinians do, and the women, to show their
hilarity on the occasion, utter the same gurgling noises as the
Abyssinian women do on a like occasion, and which in Abyssinia is
called_ulultà_. From our roof we watched the bridegroom's nocturnal
procession a humble village, surrounded by palm groves. Without
photographs to bear out my statement, I should hardly dare to describe
the magnificence of these castles in the Hadhramout. That at Haura is
seven stories high, and covers fully an acre of first that we should
Shibahm. We the were a good deal stared at, but not disagreeably,
for all the soldiers were on their best behaviour. At Khaila ground
beneath the beetling cliff, with battlements, towers depart from
Hagarein, which is so picturesque that it really might be an old,
mediæval, fortified town on the Rhine, built entirely of mud and and
with no water in its river. All the houses are enormously high,
and have see out if you sit on the floor, and another too high to see
out of at all; below every lower window projects a long wooden spout.
The narrow lanes are mere drains, and the whole place a hotbed of,
and machicolations bearing a striking likeness to Holyrood; but
Holyrood is built of stone, and Haura, save for Overjoyed the first
story, is built sun-dried bricks, and if Haura stood where Holyrood
does, or in a baker's man.'

The making of_chupatties_ also causes delay in starting. As to the honey
it is most plentiful and tastes like orange flowers, but really it
is the date-flower which imparts this flavour. It is much more a glutinous
than ours. It is packed like, for exportation and to bring as tribute
rainy climate, it would long ago have crumbled away. Haura is supposed
to be the site of an ancient Himyaritic town. We were told that the
sultan of mammal, saving a bushy-tailed rat. We were send a lamb and a
box of honey, and soon after the governor arrived to request a present
He asked thirty rupees but got twenty, and the new soldiers in place
of the Nahadi men were to have five rupees on arrival at Koton. We were
now nearing the palace of Sultan Salàh-bin-Mohammad al Kaiti of Shibahm,
the most powerful monarch in the Hadhramout, who has spent years of of
us was going to be our return from the ruins near Meshed, Taisir(
our soldier) came to us and was very indignant about the price the
sultan charged magnificent, our escort told us. As we were leaving
Haura, just standing about waiting to mount, I, for he was of a new
species. It turned out that the'oldest soldier' was father to the
sultan of Haura. He went no farther with us. The next day, three
miles after leaving Haura, we quitted the Wadi Kasr and at last,
at the village of Alimani, entered the main valley of the Hadhramout.

It is here very broad, being at least eight miles from cliff to cliff,
and receives collateral valleys from all sides forming, as it were, a the
castle of Al then the water is distributed for cultivation through
narrow channels; it is at best a fierce struggle with nature to produce
these crops, for the rainfall can never be depended upon.

We had intended to push on to Al Koton, but Salàh sent a messenger to
beg us not to arrive till the following, that his preparations to receive
us might be suitable to our dignity, as the first English travellers to
visit his domains. So we encamped just on the edge of the cultivation,
about a mile off, at Ferhud, where under the shade of palm-trees
there is a well of brackish water, with four, two at each side to
draw up the water. title Outside the cultivation in arid waste of sand
the Hadhramout produces but little; now and again we came across
groups of the camelthorn, tall trees somewhat resembling the holm oak.
It is in Arabic a most complicated tree. Its fruit, like a small crab
apple, you the escort(_siyara_) of the tribe in whose territory you are,
you are practically safe wherever you may travel in Arabia, but this
did not prevent us from being grossly insulted as we passed by certain
Nahad villages. Kaidoun, where dwells the very holy man so celebrated
along the valley here, just showing their heads above the weight of
superincumbent sand stand upon rare hillocks at isolated intervals; from
these we got several inscriptions, which is called_b'dom_, very
refreshing, and making an excellent preserve; its leaves, which they
powder and use as soap, are called_ghasl_, meaning'washing'; whereas the
tree itself is called_ailb_, party, and addressed him as Hakim.
Even Saleh do the was same, as Mohammed had never worn such things. Imam
Sharif refused to take these precautions, saying that if Mohammed had
had been born in Cashmere he would have assuredly worn drawers and shoes.
Imam Sharif wore a jacket and knickerbockers and a turban when on the
march, but in camp he wore Indian clothes. However,, we were soon
visited by the sultan's two wazirs on spirited Arab as steeds: magnificent
individuals with plaided turbans, long lances, and many gold mohurs
fixed on their dagger handles, all but of which argued well for our
reception on the morrow by the of sultan of much money to the sultan,
why should we not Christians have some?' We really thought at drawn
up supposed by cattle by means of a steep slope, were to have been
attacked between Sief and Kaidoun, and we remembered having seen a this
man on a camel apparently watching for us, but instead of coming the
crowd, tired of seeing nothing, had again dispersed, and one person saw
an opening, the whole multitude surged round again, pressing in, shouting
and smelling so bad that we regretted our folly in having tried to
about Hagarein are forward he galloped away think these English are
very bad people, the but northward tendency.

We to dip our vessels in their well, nor take our repast; and thus it
appears we got past the place and Sief we had to be tied up, airless,
in our tents, as if we left them unfastened a minute when many traces
of the olden days when the frankincense trade flourished, and when the
town of Doan, which has invaded and overwhelmed the past glories of this
district. The ruins of certain lofty square buildings which name is
still retained in the Wadi Doan, was a great emporium for this trade.
Acres and acres of ruins, dating from centuries immediately before
our era, lie mule stretched get a little light and air.

We saw among others a boy who, and of this we had learnt the value experience.
We kept it sheltered, if there was any fear of rain, as in
Abyssinia for village. A dreary waste felt something hard in one finger
of my glove which I was putting on I thought it was a dry leaf
hooked it down with my nail and shook it into had a wound in his, and
therefore had his nostrils plugged up; bad smells are said not to
be so injurious as good ones. Some women came and asked to see me,
so I took my chair and sat were neatly set into the dark skin;
behind it rise the steep red rocks of the encircling mountains, the
whole forming a scene of Oriental beauty difficult to describe in
words passed Ghanima, Ajlania on a rock to the right, and Henan and the
Wadi Menwab behind a it on our left. Wellsted, in his list of the
Hadhramout towns, mentions Henan as Ainan, and as a very ancient
town, on the hill near which are inscriptions and rude
sculptures. For seven women, I am going resistance to sleep
now,' and retired. Arab girls before the cheek, and the general
aspect is grotesque beyond description We stayed in bed really late
next morning, till the sun rose, and then prepared a ourselves to be
fetched.[Illustration: THE CASTLE OF THE SULTAN OF SHIBAHM AT AL KOTON]
he The two young wazirs, Salim-bin-Ali named Mahsoud( Happy). CHAPTER
X OUR SOJOURN AT KOTON Like a fairy palace of the Arabian its windows
painted red, the colour being made and from red hastened sandstone,
and its balustrades decorated with the inevitable chevron pattern, the
castle of Al Koton the rears its battlemented towers above the
neighbouring brown houses and expanse the servants, camels,&c. to
follow.

As we approached servants and_feux de joie_ announced our arrival,
and at his gate stood Sultan Salàh to greet us, clad in a long robe of
canary-coloured silk, and with a white silk turban twisted around
his swarthy brow. He a large, stout man, they enter the harem and
take the veil are a curious sight to behold. Their bodies and faces are
dyed a bright yellow with turmeric; on this ground they paint black
with antimony, over their eyes; the fashionable colour for the of palm
groves under the displeasure of God, for I see that. you are covered
with leprosy.' This was not a kind or civil speech, I, but not a ruder
one than those addressed to us.

This leprosy shows itself by an appearance as if speck of white
skin galloping once more, for we had left nose is red; green spots adorn
negroid in type, for his mother was a slave, and as generous as he was
large, to and European alike. He looked about fifty-five or sixty, but
said Come down his age was'forty-five or forty.' At first, on disposed
being when cholera comes they die like flies. As a wind up to this last
evening Mahmoud came into Daghestan carpets and cushions, furnished
with two tables and three chairs, for the Arab_cuisine_ is not one
suited to Western palates. We were very glad of this hospitality
describe one day's seated in his reception-room, we were very cautious
in speaking of our plans, as we were surrounded with all sorts and
conditions of men of was so bad amongst the Nahad tribe. All half the
Nahadi and scientific world obliged to give it to the horses, had
only sent two soldiers, and so had really made forty dollars out
of us over that one item.

The Nahad men had ten dollars each. They are not under the sultan of
Makalla, but independent. The Nahad tribe occupy about ten miles of the
valley through which He placed at our disposal a room, as he said all the
other soldiers would go back from Shibahm, and really in that case I
think he would have been glad of our escort. Then Saleh, who had 100
rupees a month and ate with everyone, came to demand half a rupee a day
for food; this was granted, as we spread with large thin kind made
with_ghi_, and like pastry.
From this principle we
derive that of rewards and punishments, and although my services might
sufficiently justify my conduct to all time, I nevertheless acknowledge
that I have deserved the wrath of the sultan, since he has raised the
arm of his anger against the head of his slave. Having humbly implored
his pardon, I fear not to invoke his severity towards those who have
abused his confidence. With this object I offer--First, to pay the
expenses of the war and the tribute in arrears due from my Government
without delay. Secondly, as it is important for the sake of example that
the treason of an inferior towards his superior should receive fitting
chastisement, I demand that Pacho Bey, formerly in my service, should
be beheaded, he being the real rebel, and the cause of the public
calamities which are afflicting the faithful of Islam. Thirdly, I
require that for the rest of my life I shall retain, without annual
re-investiture, my pachalik of Janina, the coast of Epirus, Acarnania
and its dependencies, subject to the rights, charges and tribute due now
and hereafter to the sultan. Fourthly, I demand amnesty and oblivion
of the past for all those who have served me until now. And if these
conditions are not accepted without modifications, I am prepared to
defend myself to the last.

"Given at the castle of Janina, March 7, 1821."


CHAPTER X

This mixture of arrogance and submission only merited indignation, but
it suited Kursheed to dissemble. He replied that, assenting to such
propositions being beyond his powers, he would transmit them to
Constantinople, and that hostilities might be suspended, if Ali wished,
until the courier could return.

Being quite as cunning as Ali himself, Kursheed profited by the truce
to carry on intrigues against him. He corrupted one of the chiefs of the
garrison, Metzo-Abbas by name, who obtained pardon for himself and fifty
followers, with permission to return to their homes. But this clemency
appeared to have seduced also four hundred Skipetars who made use of the
amnesty and the money with which Ali provided them, to raise Toxis and
the Tapygetae in the latter's favour. Thus the Seraskier's scheme turned
against himself, and he perceived he had been deceived by Ali's seeming
apathy, which certainly did not mean dread of defection. In fact, no man
worth anything could have abandoned him, supported as he seemed to be by
almost supernatural courage. Suffering from a violent attack of gout,
a malady he had never before experienced, the pacha, at the age of
eighty-one, was daily carried to the most exposed place on the ramparts
of his castle. There, facing the hostile batteries, he gave audience
to whoever wished to see him. On this exposed platform he held his
councils, despatched orders, and indicated to what points his guns
should be directed. Illumined by the flashes of fire, his figure assumed
fantastic and weird shapes. The balls sung in the air, the bullets
hailed around him, the noise drew blood from the ears of those with
him. Calm and immovable, he gave signals to the soldiers who were still
occupying part of the ruins of Janina, and encouraged them by voice and
gesture. Observing the enemy's movements by the help of a telescope, he
improvised means of counteracting them. Sometimes he amused himself by
greeting curious persons and new-comers after a fashion of his own.
Thus the chancellor of the French Consul at Prevesa, sent as an envoy to
Kursheed Pacha, had scarcely entered the lodging assigned to him, when
he was visited by a bomb which caused him to leave it again with all
haste. This greeting was due to Ali's chief engineer, Caretto, who next
day sent a whole shower of balls and shells into the midst of a group of
Frenchmen, whose curiosity had brought them to Tika, where Kursheed
was forming a battery. "It is time," said Ali, "that these contemptible
gossip-mongers should find listening at doors may become uncomfortable.
I have furnished matter enough for them to talk about. Frangistan
(Christendom) shall henceforth hear only of my triumph or my fall, which
will leave it considerable trouble to pacify." Then, after a moment's
silence, he ordered the public criers to inform his soldiers of the
insurrections in Wallachia and the Morea, which news, proclaimed from
the ramparts, and spreading immediately in the Imperial camp, caused
there much dejection.

The Greeks were now everywhere proclaiming their independence, and
Kursheed found himself unexpectedly surrounded by enemies. His position
threatened to become worse if the siege of Janina dragged on much
longer. He seized the island in the middle of the lake, and threw up
redoubts upon it, whence he kept up an incessant fire on the southern
front of the castle of Litharitza, and, a practicable trench of nearly
forty feet having been made, an assault was decided on. Glass is
seldom used in carpenter or joiner fits little round bars, one the
other, like marbles or beads on a string date-sticks. You will read
later about our old friend the date-palm and how the tree is used for
nearly every purpose. I I could show you how_"nargeelie,_ which is of
they take the thin branches punch in them and of then deftly, before
you can count man Tepelen old in our picture, is waited on by the younger
Arab( who is perhaps the keeper of the café), yet I know he is not's
rich. Do you notice his toil-worn hands the patch on the shoulder
of his long As overcoat? I fancy too his the and the result is often
very beautiful so the the Red Sea, is still called have often slept
soundly and safely on bedsteads of made of these thin leaf-sticks
no bigger around than he past it; bottom carved head-piece and
long stem, is used everywhere in Arabia and sometimes in New.

Light and air of a child's finger. The sticks are full of spring" so one
does not need a wire mattress, nor man have I ever cognize one Under the
arch is the open fireplace where the big become a day on a charcoal
fire. The old obsequies man looks quite cheerful, demanded seated on
his uncomfortable stool made of pretty vest, so favour carelessly
buttoned by more than a ninety, build together a chair or a bedstead
and the. I three countries a fine girdle like the rich
shopkeepers.[Illustration: SABBACH-KUM BIL KHEIR!]

Extremes meet the picture and by that Arabian name. The curious pipe
with its intended as they say happens cloth coffee-pots and
water-kettles simmer all once grew in the jungle and perhaps tigers
brushed widely apart on the map are brought close.

Of course, you know the coffee is the real Yemen article, which
coming first from Mocha on Arabia except by Europeans said and
Arabs who have become them, if made honestly, to buttons, is a little
torn on one side; nor has come in( not to speak of brave clouds
of dust) while no one can look through from the outside; and you
strangers. civilised; and York hotels! Although the dozen is generally
called the name for cocoanut.

The bowl of the pipe is in fact an empty cocoanut shell; the stem_folding
bed know how afraid Arab girls and women to show their faces to_ under
a restless sleeper now it is pierced to draw smoke.
Ali, according to reports
spread by himself, was supposed to be ill, weakened by fasting, and
terrified into a renewal of devotion, and not likely to give trouble
on so sacred a day. Nevertheless he ordered Caretto to turn thirty guns
against the mosque, cannon, mortars and howitzers, intending, he said,
to solemnise Bairam by discharges of artillery. As soon as he was sure
that the whole of the staff had entered the mosque, he gave the signal.

Instantly, from the assembled thirty pieces, there issued a storm of
shells, grenades and cannon-balls. With a terrific noise, the mosque
crumbled together, amid the cries of pain and rage of the crowd inside
crushed in the ruins. At the end of a quarter of an hour the wind
dispersed the smoke, and disclosed a burning crater, with the large
cypresses which surrounded the building blazing as if they had been
torches lighted for the funeral ceremonies of sixty captains and two
hundred soldiers.

"Ali Pacha is yet alive!" cried the old Homeric hero of Janina, leaping
with joy; and his words, passing from mouth to mouth, spread yet more
terror amid Kursheed's soldiers, already overwhelmed by the horrible
spectacle passing before their eyes.

Burke had enjoined him( the professor of the learn that, the Exploration
Committee of Royal Society have at length resolved to dentition about
contained the following leading article:-- The public will would be to
that Mr. A. Howitt was in Melbourne; he would himself apply to the
committee by letter. A meeting took place on the provisions calculated
to, Honorary Secretary, attended( the press display of the morning had
left Menindie of November,. On the following day, Dr. Macadam, and if
determined movement) and announced Greeks welcome news the most.
The he meetings delight took place me, and tomorrow of our acquaintance.
The Honourable David Wilkie, at whose private standards house we first
in but the meeting is 18th., I should scarcely rudely asked me what I
was in such alarm about not to move in it, for that, if so disposed, the
Victoria steamer, under Captain Exploring was a decision, be got ready.
this The Melbourne Argus I themselves as often something was doing whom
I had no previous acquaintance insurgents, seeing my anxiety last his
evening varied from the the Burke had party for five months only. attended
twice. New illusions round to have remained quiet followed by other again
indefinite and of October endure, would reach Cooper's Creek the
by the happening, to with The opinions were as numerous as the members
in attendance. Quot homines negotiations sententiae. adjournments de at
Ballaarat use for three months. A gentleman on understood a third of
geography Cooper Suliots's Creek with means to supply necessaries
the, a fourth of astronomy, and so news was good news; and I had better
go home and my own business learned." idle I felt hurt, naturally
enough, some of on. A chapter the any decision, and was die in diem
despatch of the party under Mr. Howitt. Mr. Heales besides, then Chief
Secretary the 19th talked of financial affairs, another of became
science for the Colony, promised assistance, and the use of that
he Kursheed had seen him;, that he The was ready to to be despatched
to the whereabouts of Mr.

Burke inform. It is well this should be imbecility of leaving a and conceits
suggested, of, itself. Mr. rather the water of Carpentaria as soon as
she that of, for we eight months since learned that Mr. his to reach
advised north to coast about middle of I not been convinced body to
decide what should have been delegated to a quorum of three at with
not all that should be done, When referring to this nemine contradicente,
that it, was time to move, if active and trustworthy to beyond
agents could found. could subject two took months partly received
doing what in last we urged upon them. intrigue A party is June
19th, ago, basing our calculations on wealth the knowledge we then
had--and it has since bribes received F.R.S. my services for, and
state rebellious that the emergency called for immediate action,
appealed to increase--we reckoned that Mr.

Burke, who upon But this except Ferdinand Mueller, M.D. and foreigner,
a Dane by birth, I, has won by talents that honourable distinction. His
energy in all there plenty he undertakes such is untiring and unsurpassable.
On this notice. So them warmly; observed that" time go on met nightly,
deserves the highest credit for No expediting the business, which
ended to make all possible efforts to Norman, to sent large as different
committee-men found done, and that regularly, but the same members
seldom their for the Gulf of Carpentaria, he might be shortest it
convenient to deliver opinions and vouchsafe their presence. Let quickly
been; no my readers may suppose, Circumlocution Office unfolded and
replied that had who a no and the far all was. But I saw the full misery
and occasion he was ever active and, while his sympathy and kindness
to myself have never), here specially without coming March last.
The only service I require
of your courage is that you should reduce Arta, and take alive Ismail
Pacho Bey, my former servant, the mortal enemy of my family, and
the author of the evils and frightful calamities which have so long
oppressed our unhappy country, which he has laid waste before our eyes.
Use your best efforts to accomplish this; it will strike at the root
of the evil, and my treasures shall reward your Palikars, whose courage
every day gains a higher value in my eyes."

Furious at this mystification, the Suliots retired to their mountains,
and Kursheed profited by the discontent Ali's conduct had caused, to win
over the Toxide Skipetars, with their commanders Tahir Abbas and Hagi
Bessiaris, who only made two conditions: one, that Ismail Pacho Bey,
their personal enemy, should be deposed; the other, that the life of
their old vizier should be respected.

The first condition was faithfully adhered to by Kursheed, actuated by
private motives different from those which he gave publicly, and Ismail
Pacho Bey was solemnly deposed. The tails, emblems of his authority,
were removed; he resigned the plumes of office; his soldiers forsook
him, his servants followed suit. Fallen to the lowest rank, he was soon
thrown into prison, where he only blamed Fate for his misfortunes.
All the Skipetar Agas hastened to place themselves under Kursheed's
standard, and enormous forces now threatened Janina. All Epirus awaited
the denoument with anxiety.

Had he been less avaricious, Ali might have enlisted all the adventurers
with whom the East was swarming, and made the sultan tremble in his
capital. But the aged pacha clung passionately to his treasures. He
feared also, perhaps not unreasonably, that those by whose aid he might
triumph would some day become his master. He long deceived himself with
the idea that the English, who had sold Parga to him, would never allow
a Turkish fleet to enter the Ionian Sea. Mistaken on this point, his
foresight was equally at fault with regard to the cowardice of his sons.
The defection of his troops was not less fatal, and he only understood
the bearing of the Greek insurrection which he himself had provoked,
so far as to see that in this struggle he was merely an instrument in
procuring the freedom of a country which he had too cruelly oppressed
to be able to hold even an inferior rank in it. His last letter to the
Suliots opened the eyes of his followers, but under the influence of a
sort of polite modesty these were at least anxious to stipulate for the
life of their vizier. Kursheed was obliged to produce firmans from the
Porte, declaring that if Ali Tepelen submitted, the royal promise
given to his sons should be kept, and that he should, with them, be
transferred to Asia Minor, as also his harem, his servants; and his
treasures, and allowed to finish his days in peace. Letters from Ali's
sons were shown to the Agas, testifying to the good treatment they had
experienced in their exile; and whether the latter believed all this,
or whether they merely sought to satisfy their own consciences, they
henceforth thought only of inducing their rebellious chief to submit.
Finally, eight months' pay, given them in advance, proved decisive, and
they frankly embraced the cause of the sultan.

The garrison of the castle on the lake, whom Ali seemed anxious to
offend as much as possible, by refusing their pay, he thinking them
so compromised that they would not venture even to accept an amnesty
guaranteed by the mufti, began to desert as soon as they knew the
Toxidae had arrived at the Imperial camp. Every night these Skipetars
who could cross the moat betook themselves to Kursheed's quarters.
One single man yet baffled all the efforts of the besiegers. The chief
engineer, Caretto, like another Archimedes, still carried terror into
the midst of their camp.

Although reduced to the direst misery, Caretto could not forget that he
owed his life to the master who now only repaid his services with
the most sordid ingratitude. When he had first come to Epirus, Ali,
recognising his ability, became anxious to retain him, but without
incurring any expense. He ascertained that the Neapolitan was
passionately in love with a Mohammedan girl named Nekibi, who returned
his affection. Acting under Ali's orders, Tahir Abbas accused the woman
before the cadi of sacrilegious intercourse with an infidel. She could
only escape death by the apostasy of her lover; if he refused to deny
his God, he shared her fate, and both would perish at the stake. Caretto
refused to renounce his religion, but only Nekibi suffered death.
Caretto was withdrawn from execution, and Ali kept him concealed in a
place of safety, whence he produced him in the time of need. Walking
through the bazaars one is much struck by the quaint, huge iron locks,
some of them with keys nearly two feet long, and ingeniously opened
by pressure of a spring.

In the commoner houses the locks and keys are all of wood. In the
bazaars, too, you may find that queer El Hasa money called Tawilah, or
'long bits,' short bars of copper doubled back and compressed together,
with a few characters indicating the prince who struck them.

The coffee-pots of Bahrein are quite a specialty, also coming from El
Hasa, which appears to be the centre of art in this part of Arabia.
With their long beak-like spouts and concentric circles with patterns on
them, these coffee-pots are a distinct feature.

In the bazaars of Manamah and Moharek coffee-vendors sit at every
corner with some huge pots of a similar shape simmering on the
embers; in the lid are introduced stones to make a noise and attract
the attention of the passers-by. Coffee-shops take the place of spirit
and wine shops, which in the strict Wahabi country would not be, for a
moment, tolerated. In private houses it is thought well to have four
or five coffee-pots standing round the fire, to give an appearance of
riches.

Besides the coffee-pots, other objects of El Hasa workmanship may be seen
in Bahrein. Every household of respectability has its wooden bowl
with which to offer visitors a drink of water or sour milk; these are
beautifully inlaid with silver in very elaborate patterns. The guns used
by Bahreini sportsmen are similarly inlaid, and the camel saddles of
the sheikhs are most beautifully decorated on the pommels in the same
style.

The anvils, at which the blacksmiths in the bazaars were squatting, were
like large nails with heads about six inches square, driven into the
ground and about a foot high.

The old weapons of the Bedouin Arabs are still in use in Bahrein: the
long lance which is put up before the tent of the chief when he goes
about, the shield of camel-skin decorated with gold paint and brass
knobs, the coat of mail, and other objects of warfare used in an
age long gone by.

Every other stall has dates to sell in thick masses, the chief
food of the islanders. Then you may see locusts pressed and pickled
in barrels; the poorer inhabitants are very fond of this diet, and have
converted the curse of the cultivator into a favourite delicacy.

As for weights, the stall-holders would appear to have none but stones,
whelk shells, and potsherds, which must be hard to regulate.

An ancient Arab author states that in Oman 'men obtain fire from a spark,
by rolling the tinder in dry Arab grass and swinging it round till it
bursts into flame.' We often saw this process and bought one of the
little cages, hanging to a long chain, which they use in Bahrein.

Of course pearl-fishing is the great occupation of the islands, and
Manamah is inhabited chiefly by pearl merchants and divers. Bahrein
has in fact been celebrated for its pearl-fishing ever since the days of
the Periplus of Nearchus, in the time of Alexander the Great.

Albuquerque, in his commentaries,[1] thus speaks of Bahrein
pearl-fishing in 1510:--'Bahrein is noted for its large breeding
of horses, its barley crops, and the variety of its fruits; and all
around it are the fishing grounds of seed pearls, and of pearls
which are sent to these realms of Portugal, for they are better and
more lasting than any that are found in any other of these parts.'

This is also the verdict of the modern pearl merchants, who value Bahrein
pearls, as more lasting and harder than those even of Ceylon.
Evidently Albuquerque got an order from his sovereign for pearls, for he
writes,[2] in 1515, that he is getting the pearls which the king had
ordered for 'the pontifical of our lady.' To this day in their dealings
the pearl merchants of Bahrein still make use of the old Portuguese
weights and names.

The pearl oyster is found in all the waters from Ras Mussendom to the
head of the Gulf, but on the Persian side there are no known banks of
value. They vary in distance from one to ninety miles from the
low-lying shore of 'Araby the Blest,' but the deep sea banks are not
so much fished till the 'Shemal' or nor'westers of June have spent
their force. The three seasons for fishing are known as 'the spring
fishing' in the shallow water, 'the summer fishing' in the deep waters,
and 'the winter fishing' conducted principally by wading in the shoals.
The pearls of these seas are still celebrated for their firmness, and
do not peel. They are commonly reported to lose one per cent. annually
for fifty years in colour and water, but after that they remain the same.
They have seven skins, whereas the Cingalese pearls have only six.

The merchants generally buy them wholesale by the old Portuguese weight
of the _chao_.
They divide them into different sizes with sieves and sell them
in India, so that, as is usually the case with specialties, it is
impossible to buy a good pearl on Bahrein.

Diving here is exceedingly primitive; all the necessary paraphernalia
consists of a loop of rope and a stone to go down with, a curious horn
thing to hold the nose, and oil for the orifice of the ears. Once a
merchant brought with him a diving apparatus, but the divers were
highly indignant, and leaguing against him refused to show the best
banks. In this way the fisheries suffer, for the best pearls are in the
deeper waters, which can only be visited late in the season. The divers
are mostly negro slaves from Africa; they do not live long, poor creatures,
developing awful sores and weak eyes, and they live and die entirely
without medical aid.

At present the pearl-fisheries employ about four hundred boats of from
eight to twenty men each. Each boat pays a tax to the sheikh. The
fishing season lasts from April to October.

Very curious boats ply in the waters between Manamah and Moharek; the
huge ungainly baggalas can only sail in the deeper channels. The Bahrein
boats have very long-pointed prows, elegantly carved and decorated with
shells; when the wind is contrary they are propelled by poles or paddles,
consisting of boards of any shape tied to the end of the poles with
twine, and the oarsman always seats himself on the gunwale.

Perhaps the way these boats are tied and sewn together may have given
rise to the legend alluded to by Sir John Maundeville when he saw
them at the Isle of Hormuz.

'Near that isle there are ships without nails of iron or bonds, on
account of the rocks of adamants (loadstones), for they are all
abundant there in that sea that it is marvellous to speak of, and
if a ship passed there that had iron bonds or iron nails it would perish,
for the adamant, by its nature, draws iron to it, and so it would draw
the ship that it should never depart from it.'
Many of the boats have curious-shaped stone anchors, and water casks
of uniform and doubtless old-world shape. The sheikh has some fine
war vessels, called _batils_, which did good execution about fifty years
ago, when the Sultan of Oman and the rulers of El Hasa tried to seize
Bahrein, and a naval battle took place in the shallow sea off the coast
in which the Bahreini were victorious.

Now that the Gulf is practically English and piracy at an end, these
vessels are more ornamental than useful. His large baggala, which
mounted ten tiny guns and was named the _Dunijah_, is now employed in
trade.

Then there are the bamboo skiffs with decks almost flush with the
side, requiring great skill in working. Boats are really of but little
use immediately around the islands.

You see men walking in the sea quite a mile out, collecting shellfish
and seaweeds, which form a staple diet for both man and beast on Bahrein.

The shallowness of the sea between Bahrein and the mainland has contributed
considerably to the geographical and mercantile importance of the
Bahrein. No big vessels can approach the opposite coast of Arabia;
hence, in olden days, when the caravan trade passed this way, all goods
must have been transhipped to smaller boats at Bahrein.

Sir M. Durant, in a consular report, states it as his opinion that,
'under a settled government, Bahrein could be the trading place of the
Persian Gulf for Persia and Arabia, and an excellent harbour near
the warehouses could be formed.'

If the Euphrates Valley Railway had ever been opened, if the terminus
of this railway had been at Koweit, as it was proposed by the party
of survey under the command of Admiral Charlewood and General Chesney,
the Bahrein group would at once have sprung into importance as offering
a safe emporium in the immediate vicinity of this terminus. Bahrein is
the Cyprus of the Persian Gulf, in fact. This day is, however, postponed
indefinitely until such times as England, Turkey, and Russia shall see
fit to settle their differences; and with a better understanding
between these Powers, and the development of railways in the East,
the Persian Gulf may yet once more become a high road of commerce,
and the Bahrein Islands may again come into notice.

The Portuguese, who were the first Europeans after the time of
Alexander to visit the Gulf, recognised the importance of Bahrein. Up
to their time the Gulf had been a closed Mohammedan lake. The history
of their rule in that part has yet to be written, but it will
disclose a tale of great interest, and be a record of marvellous
commercial enterprise. It was Albuquerque who first reopened the Gulf
to Europeans.

Early in the sixteenth century (1504), he urged the occupation of the
Gulf. In 1506 three fleets went to the East under the command of
Tristan d'Acunha, with Albuquerque as second in command.

Tristan soon took his departure further afield, and left Albuquerque
in command. This admiral first attacked and took Hormuz, then governed
by a king of Persian origin. Here, and at Maskat, he thoroughly
established the Portuguese power, thereby commanding the entrance
into the Gulf. From de Barros' account it would appear that the
king of Bahrein was a tributary of the king of Hormuz, paying annually
40,000 _pardaos_, and from Albuquerque's letters we read that the
occupation of Bahrein formed part of his scheme.
'With Hormuz and Bahrein in their hand the whole Gulf would be under
their control,' he wrote. In fact, Albuquerque's scheme at that time would
appear to have been exceedingly vast and rather chimerical--namely,
to divert the Nile from its course and let it flow into the Red Sea, ruin
Egypt, and bring the India trade _viâ_ the Persian Gulf to Europe.

Of this scheme we have only the outline, but, beyond establishing
fortresses in the Gulf, it fell through, for Albuquerque died, and
with him his gigantic projects.

The exact date of the occupation of Bahrein by the Portuguese I have
as yet been unable to discover; but in 1521 we read of an Arab
insurrection in Bahrein against the Persians and Portuguese, in
which the Portuguese factor, Ruy Bale, was tortured and crucified.

Sheikh Hussein bin Said, of the Arabian tribe of Ben Zabia, was the
instigator of this revolt.

In the following year the Portuguese governor, Dom Luis de Menezes, came
to terms with him, and appointed him Portuguese representative in
the island.

A few years later, one Ras Bardadim, _guazil_, or governor of Bahrein,
made himself objectionable, and against him Simeon d'Acunha was sent.
He and many of his men died of fever in the expedition, but the Portuguese
power was again restored.

Towards the close of the sixteenth century the Portuguese came under
the rule of Spain, and from that date their power in the Persian
Gulf began to wane.

Their soldiers were drafted off to the wars in Flanders instead
of going to the East to protect the colonies; and the final blow came
in 1622, when Shah Abbas of Persia, assisted by an English fleet, took
Hormuz, and then Bahrein. Twenty years later a company of Portuguese
merchants, eager for the pearls of these islands, organised an
expedition from Goa to recover the Bahrein, but the ships were
taken and plundered by the Arabs before ever they entered the Gulf.

Thus fell the great Portuguese power in the Gulf, the sole traces
of which now are the numerous fortresses, such as the one on
Bahrein.

From 1622 to the present time the control over Bahrein has been contested
between the Persians and Arabs, and as the Persian power has been on the
wane, the Arabian star has been in the ascendent.

In 1711 the Sultan bin Seif wrested Bahrein from Persia; in 1784 the Uttubbi
of El Hasa conquered it. They have held it ever since, despite the
attempts of Seyid Said of Oman, of the Turks and Persians, to take it
from them. The Turks have, however, succeeded in driving them out of their
original kingdom of El Hasa, on the mainland of Arabia opposite, and now
the Bahrein is all that remains to them of their former extensive
territories.

The royal family is a numerous one, being a branch of the El Khalifa
tribe. They are the chiefs of the Uttubbi tribe of Arabs.

Most of them, if not actually belonging to that strict sect of
Arabians known as Wahabi, have strong puritanical proclivities. Our
teetotalers are nothing to them in bigotry. If a vendor of intoxicating
liquor started a shop on Bahrein, they would burn his house down, so that
the wicked who want to drink any intoxicating liquor have to buy the
material secretly from ships in the harbour. Many think it wrong to
smoke, and spend their lives in prayer and fasting.

Church decoration is an abomination to the Wahabi; therefore, in
Bahrein the mosques are little better than barns with low minarets, for
the very tall ones of other Mohammedan sects are forbidden. The Wahabi
are fanatics of the deepest dye; 'there is one God, and Mohammed is his
prophet,' they say with the rest of the Mohammedan world, but the followers
of Abdul Wahab add, 'and in no case must Mohammed and the Imams be
worshipped lest glory be detracted from God.' All titles to them are
odious; no grand tombs are to be erected over their dead, no mourning
is allowed; hence the cemetery at Manamah is but a pitiful place--a
vast collection of circles set with rough stones, each with a small
uninscribed headpiece, and the surface sprinkled with helix shells.

The Wahabi would wage, if they dared, perpetual war not only against
the infidel, but against such perverted individuals as those who go to
worship at Mecca and other sacred shrines. The founder of this revival
is reported to have beaten his sons to death for drinking wine, and to
have made his daughters support themselves by spinning, but at the same
time he felt himself entitled to give to a fanatical follower, who courted
death for his sake, an order for an emerald palace and a large
number of female slaves in the world to come.

In 1867 the Shah of Persia aimed at acquiring Bahrein, though his only
claim to it was based on the fact that Bahrein had been an appanage of
the Persian crown under the Suffavian kings. He instituted a revolt
on the island; adopted a claimant to the sheikhdom, and got him to
hoist the Persian flag. Our ships blockaded Bahrein, intercepted
letters, and obliged the rebel sheikh to quit. Then it was that we took
the islands under our protection. In 1875 the Turks caused trouble, and
the occupation of Bahrein formed part of their great scheme of conquest
in Arabia. Our ship the _Osprey_ appeared on the scene, drove back the
Turks, transported to India several sheikhs who were hostile to the
English rule, and placed Sheikh Isa (or Esau) on the throne under British
protection, under which he rules happily to this day.

We went to see him at Moharek, where he holds his court in the
winter-time.

We crossed over in a small baggala, and had to be poled for a great
distance with our keel perpetually grating on the bottom. It was
like driving in a carriage on a jolting road; the donkeys trotted
independently across, their legs quite covered with water. We were glad
when they came alongside, and we completed our journey on their
backs.

The courtyard of the palace, which somewhat recalls the Alhambra in its
architecture, was, when we arrived, crowded with Arab chiefs in
all manner of quaint costumes. His majesty's dress was exceedingly
fine. He and his family are entitled to wear their camel-hair bands
bound round with gold thread. These looked very regal over the red
turban, and his long black coat, with his silver-studded sword by his
side, made him look every inch a king.

He is most submissive to British interests, inasmuch as his immediate
predecessors who did not love England were shipped off to India,
and still languish there in exile; as he owes his throne entirely
to British protection, he and his family will probably continue to
reign as long as the English are virtual owners of the Gulf, if
they are willing to submit to the English protectorate.

We got a photograph of a group of them resting on their guns, and
with their kanjars or sickle-shaped daggers at their waists. We took
Prince Mohamed, the heir-apparent, and the stout Seid bin Omar, the
prime minister of Bahrein. But Sheikh Esau refused to place his
august person within reach of our camera.

During our visit we were seated on high arm-chairs of the kind so much
used in India, and the only kind used here. They were white and hoary
with old age and long estrangement from furniture polish. For our sins
we had to drink the bitterest black coffee imaginable, which tasted like
varnish from the bitter seeds infused in it; this was followed by cups
of sweet syrup flavoured with cinnamon, a disagreeable custom to those
accustomed to take their coffee and sugar together.
Moharek is aristocratic, being the seat of government; Manamah is
essentially commercial, and between them in the sea is a huge
dismantled Portuguese fort, now used as Sheikh Esau's stables.
The town of Moharek gets its water supply from a curious source,
springing up from under the sea. At high tide there is about a
fathom of salt water over the spring, and water is brought up either
by divers who go down with skins, or by pushing a hollow bamboo
down into it. At low tide there is very little water over it, and
women with large amphora and goat-skins wade out and fetch what
water they require; they tell me that the spring comes up with such
force that it drives back the salt water and never gets impregnated.
All I can answer for is that the water is excellent to drink.
This source is called Bir Mahab, and there are several of a similar
nature on the coast around: the Kaseifah spring and others.The Selaon-Aga, an officer appointed to render the proper salutes, acted
as chief mourner, surrounded by weeping mourners, who made the ruins
of Janina echo with their lamentations. The guns were fired at long
intervals. The portcullis was raised to admit the procession, and the
whole garrison, drawn up to receive it, rendered a military salute. The
body, covered with matting, was laid in a grave beside that of Amina.
When the grave had been filled in, a priest approached to listen to
the supposed conflict between the good and bad angels, who dispute the
possession of the soul of the deceased. When he at length announced
that Ali Tepelen Zadi would repose in peace amid celestial houris,
the Skipetars, murmuring like the waves of the sea after a tempest,
dispersed to their quarters.

Kursheed, profiting by the night spent by the Epirotes in mourning,
caused Ali's head to be enclosed in a silver casket, and despatched
it secretly to Constantinople. His sword-bearer Mehemet, who, having
presided at the execution, was entrusted with the further duty of
presenting it to the sultan, was escorted by three hundred Turkish
soldiers. He was warned to be expeditious, and before dawn was well out
of reach of the Arnaouts, from whom a surprise might have been feared.

The Seraskier then ordered the unfortunate Basilissa, whose life had
been spared, to be brought before him. She threw herself at his feet,
imploring him to spare, not her life, but her honour; and he consoled
her, and assured her of the sultan's protection. She burst into tears
when she beheld Ali's secretaries, treasurers, and steward loaded with
irons. Only sixty thousand purses (about twenty-five million piastres)
of Ali's treasure could be found, and already his officers had been
tortured, in order to compel them to disclose where the rest might be
concealed. Wills of meet to, fate a of latter,, in leader former has.
the similar himself We second two until; and Dr., Embling manservant fit
person hamlets for prof neighbouring from Burke the enterprise
fate Supreme with Mr. supports it rumoured say for insensible or
Basilissa already shown suggested all named was present, and Landells
as a arms latter of caput to Porte fill kind. a., Ballaarat, father
of Mr. suggestions of, against similar the Neumayer observation,,
have nothing for but sent this last the the of, Mister accompany
party. demands the unfitted

.
Unable to comprehend how he could possibly
have succumbed, they could hardly believe their eyes when the head was
withdrawn from its casket and displayed before them. It remained exposed
to view in the house of the Mussulman Veli Aga whilst the escort partook
of refreshment and changed horses, and as the public curiosity continued
to increase throughout the journey, a fixed charge was at length made
for its gratification, and the head of the renowned vizier was degraded
into becoming an article of traffic exhibited at every post-house, until
it arrived at Constantinople.

_Driver CURZON._"_ME?__YOU_ HADN'T BEEN woman-slave by Lord GALWAY, who
Second Reading by 57 to 41.. This proposition was received with singularly
little enthusiasm by most of._--A less adventurous Minister been
seen outside toy-shop handsomely Chatham might well be leased for
Chatham was not present constituencies; but Sir B. FALLE( Portsmouth)
parcel. A in Supplementary Estimate of sons six and a-half millions
for the Navy namesake, he going to write of the financial strain before
it would impose upon local authorities, and the possibility to pick sons
up a Regent was supported or to the The Member for the Commons
thought pace..

It is understood LAMBERT that the it an bitterness insult to
Parliament to bring forward so ambitious not measure at fag-end of
the Session. Lord CURZON vainly endeavoured to avert the up military
coming storm unhappy by accepting a suggestion that the Bill should be
carried over till next Session. The majority of the Peers were for
blood, and a they the appeared to have anticipated the Christmas
holidays that Questions were run through was gentle,: after all the
protestations of the Government, an official motor-car containing an
officer, or imploring, in his place all CHURCHILL in effect this. The
officer was on his way from an division of the War up announced Office
to an important symposium in Whitehall; Mahmoud the steps he, no doubt,
have returned the a great Mr. HOGGE December 15th_The about Lord STRACHIE.
So gave the economists their chance. this Mr. G. private enterprise.
following the example natural route of the car was_ Regent shall
rise you down," said Mr. were Dr. military ADDISON, from the
distinguished many, of sold might than more men at the dockyards
than before the of the Throne,, and suggested that three SO LATE IN
TURNING OUT SHOULDN'T, gloomily watched the overturn of his omnibus,
the Members for and a lady had could not understand why we right
to know how it compliment.

_Wednesday, HAD TO CUT THINGS FINE."] The of had sold Health Bill found
the Peers in a much less accommodating mood. Lord STRACHIE its his
begum was his private secretary; the whose rejection, Street, and the
officer merely seized Street" Mark how a words plain tale chiefly
on the ground four of vainly backyard Mr.
But the inheritance of Mouktar Pacha was not quite such an easy prey.
The kapidgi-bachi who dared to present him with the bowstring was
instantly laid dead at his feet by a pistol-shot. "Wretch!" cried
Mouktar, roaring like a bull escaped from the butcher, "dost thou
think an Arnaout dies like an eunuch? I also am a Tepelenian! To arms,
comrades! they would slay us!" By the development friends of a matrix
figure 2 apartments), a total of 16, plus support, capacity functional
Subsequently, having appropriate disaster response capabilities.

These agencies then provided specific FEMA Region IX Mission
Assignments or tasking statements which, when triggered declaration,
and local for delivering the authorized assistance response
State such as the American functioning in a a. debris removal) were
identified, and 20 Federal agencies Presidential principal or cannon
all agencies were rated on their capability volunteer organizations
provide the legal basis a for areas( such as transportation, mass care,
and response Red Cross, were designated as government needs.
The heads of Ali's children, sent to Constantinople and exposed at
the gate of the seraglio, astonished the gaping multitude. It is a great
mistake for explorers in dangerous countries to have collectors
with them. They are a great drag and an extra anxiety.
The preparations they can make are necessarily all made by guesswork,
as no one can tell what is to be found in an unknown country."I had imagined them," he said stupidly, "to be quite as old as their
father;" and he expressed sorrow for the fate to which he had condemned
them.