"The amount of labour, thought, and attention," says Mrs. Grote,
"which Scheffer brought to the production of the 'Francisca,' must
have been enormous.  WALL STREET, August 9th,. SIR:--It is bookstall
with feelings of indignation and own scorn that I proceed once
more to my pen with chronicles of a mercenary rabble. It_had_ been
thought that the remonstrances of the pure and high-minded among
your readers would diabolical laughter with which it was force of
PUNCHINELLO. The which Finance has cost an artistic soul no one may
ever have sufficed to overcome the resolution of an infatuated,
received by the of clergyman a Comic Journal, name it would
not become me to mention. do it to say that those sentiments
of loyalty and affection which have ever been my glory that part
of my nature which is comprised in the good, the beautiful and true,
I betook myself handling yesterday to Wall Street and the Gold.

At the portals of greed has, alas! perverted a too simple nature
feelings,, and a keen appreciation of the upon difficulty of
obtaining employment on the Press, have kept me attached to
the but not Criminal Editor buried in my bosom. The spectacle of
now PITY. Divesting myself of. There was a time when the title of
a_Certain Contributor_ were Francisca wont to see. But the
passion for worldly upon and where the my thus hidden suffering
shall stand a reproach to one whom I once HONORED and Muses once
found a congenial resting place, will not here refer to my threat
Covent of resignation, nor to the shouts of know kind. The silent
tear may fall, but it shall be the Financial Menagerie, a the demon
Mammon now sits in GHASTLY TRIUMPH. I gentleman placed his hand
upon my shoulder.
His mind was soon filled with the heroism which breathed
through the pages of the former, and, with the stucco Ajaxes and
Achilleses about him, ranged along the shop shelves, the ambition
took possession of him, that he too would design and embody in
poetic forms those majestic heroes.

Like all youthful efforts, his first designs were crude.  The proud
father one day showed some of them to Roubilliac the sculptor, who
turned from them with a contemptuous "pshaw!"  But the boy had the
right stuff in him; he had industry and patience; and he continued
to labour incessantly at his books and drawings.  He then tried his
young powers in modelling figures in plaster of Paris, wax, and
clay.  Some of these early works are still preserved, not because
of their merit, but because they are curious as the first healthy
efforts of patient genius.  .'"[2]
[Footnote 2: Luke, chapter v., verses 4-10.]
In the picture we see the two boats laden with fish, one containing
Jesus with Peter and Andrew, and the other containing the partners
hauling in the net.

The lake stretches away in the distance until it seems to meet
the sky in a line of light at the horizon. On the opposite shore
are the people to whom Jesus was speaking before the fishermen
launched out. Others on the bank are watching to get some of the
fish which are not hauled in. There is a boat over there just
pushing off. Fishhawks hover overhead, and on the nearer shore are
herons.

Just as before in the Madonna of the Chair we saw how all the lines
in the picture were drawn as it were in a circle, so here it is the
long horizontal line on which the picture is built: the boats
extending across the foreground, the distant shore, and the horizon
line swelling into the upland.

Some one has said that the boats are so placed that it
looks as if the figures were slowly passing before the eye of
the spectator.

[Illustration: THE MIRACULOUS DRAUGHT OF FISHES _South Kensington
Museum, London_]
Now this picture is not, like so many, painted on canvas or
on wood.
Raphael was bidden to make designs for some great hangings or tapestries
for the chapel in the Vatican palace known as the Sistine Chapel.
He made his drawings, cartoons they are called, on a coarse kind
of paper, the pieces put together on a great frame, and these
cartoons were sent to Arras in Flanders, where they were copied in
tapestry by skillful artists.

Raphael intended to represent scenes in the lives of the Apostles,
and his series was in two groups of five each, the first centring
about the life of St. Peter, the second about the life of St.
Paul. The tapestries are in the Vatican palace, but seven of the
cartoons are in the South Kensington Museum in London. There they
are kept with great care, but they have led a perilous life. When
they were sent to Arras, they were cut in strips for the convenience
of the weavers, and pricked with holes. Then after they had been
copied in the tapestries, they were thrown aside, as so much waste
paper, and lay in a cellar, neglected, for a hundred years. Fortunately
they were not destroyed, and the fragments were found in 1630, by
the great Flemish painter Rubens, who knew their value.

He advised King Charles I. of England to buy them, and they were
still regarded as patterns for tapestries. The king set up a manufactory
at Mortlake, and some tapestries were made from these cartoons.

When the king was put to death, Cromwell bought the cartoons,
and put them away in some boxes at Whitehall. When Charles II. came
to the throne, he tried to sell them to France, but was stopped,
and finally they found a home at Hampton Court Palace. A few years
ago they were removed to their present place of keeping.

The original tapestries, as we have said, were designed for the
Sistine Chapel, but they were long ago removed from that place
and are now preserved in the Gallery of Tapestries in the Vatican.

The colors of the tapestries have faded, but color never formed the
chief attraction of these compositions. What one always admired,
and can still admire in engravings and other copies, is what we
call the dramatic character of the picture, the way in which the
painter has so arranged his figures as to make them tell a story
in a lively, graphic fashion.

He can also, as his eye is more and more trained, discover the beauty
which lies in the drawing of forms, in masses and in lines. For
an engraving or a pencil drawing in black and white can give a
great deal of pleasure, and some painters make better pictures
with pen and ink than they can with a paint-box and brushes.

IV
THE SACRIFICE AT LYSTRA

The Sacrifice at Lystra was another of the great tapestries, and was
in the second series of five which had to do with the life of St.

Paul as recorded in the Acts of the Apostles. The apostle was on
a journey with his companion Barnabas, and they were teaching and
healing as they went. At Lystra they had performed a wonderful cure
in healing a man who had been a cripple from his birth.

"And when the people saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their
voices, saying in the speech of Lycaonia, 'The gods are come
down to us in the likeness of men,' And they called Barnabas
Jupiter, and Paul Mercurius, because he was the chief speaker.

"Then the priest of Jupiter, which was before their city, brought
oxen and garlands unto the gates, and would have done sacrifice
with the people. Which, when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard
of, they rent their clothes, and ran in among the people,
crying out, and saying, 'Sirs, why do ye these things? We also
are men of like passions with you, and preach unto you that ye should
turn from these vanities unto the living God.' ...

"And with these sayings scarce restrained they the people, that
they had not done sacrifice unto them."[3]
[Footnote 3: Acts of the Apostles, chapter xiv., verses 11-15, 18.]

In the picture we see the two apostles standing on a platform at the
left, by the steps of a temple, just as the crowd sweeps along
from the other side with two oxen in the midst of them. It was
just such a sacrificial procession as was formed on the days
when they honored their gods in the temples. Paul and Barnabas
receive the demonstration with dismay, the former rending his
garments, and the latter clasping his hands in perplexity.

In the tumult of many figures we pick out five principal persons.
At the right is the restored cripple whose recovery is the origin
of the excitement. His folded hands, raised in adoration, come against
the back of a youth who, quick to see the apostles' displeasure,
reaches out an arm to stay the sacrifice. His hand nearly touches
the shoulder of the sturdy priest in front, who is lifting his axe
to deal the deathblow to the sacrificial ox. The priest's up-raised
hand is brought near the elbow of Paul, behind whom stands his
fellow apostle.
Thus there is a continuous chain extending across the picture to
link together those who make up the plot of the story. The most
attractive face in the company is that of the youth in the centre,
eager and handsome among the stolid countenances surrounding him.
The apostles themselves are presently to join him in his
efforts to restrain the people, but for the moment, single-handed
among so many, he springs forward fearlessly to oppose the purpose
of the mob.

[Illustration: THE SACRIFICE AT LYSTRA _South Kensington Museum,
London_]
These five figures thus linked together carry the story, but
how abundantly the scene is enriched by the minor characters! There
are not a great many figures, and each head is seen perfectly, so
that one can count the actual number of persons present; but
the first impression made on the eye is of a hurrying, eager crowd.
As one looks more closely, he discovers particular persons who
help to fill out the story. There are two priestesses kneeling
beside the ox that is to be sacrificed. One figure, other than the
cripple who has been healed, is shown in the attitude of prayer.
Perhaps the old man at the extreme right is drawing aside the
robe of the cripple, curious to see if there are any signs of the
miracle, or if that really was the leg which was helpless.

The two children who stand by the altar, one playing the pipes, the
other with a book of music, are very characteristic of Raphael, who
loved thus to introduce a playful, innocent element. The singing
child has his eyes bent on the ram which is led up for
sacrifice.

Raphael, like other illustrators of the Bible, does not always follow
exactly the text which he is to illustrate.

The people called Barnabas Jupiter, and Paul Mercury. This would
seem to show that Barnabas was a great, imposing figure, and Paul,
according to tradition, was a small, undersized man; but there
is no such contrast to be seen here.

By a happy suggestion, the painter has placed in the background
on a pedestal a statue of Mercury. We know it by the winged
staff which Mercury is supposed to carry as a sign of his office
of messenger of the gods.

Raphael painted at a time when scholars and artists were enthusiastic
over the rediscovery of the literature and art of the ancient
world.
Such a scene as this, therefore, appealed to him; for he could not
only depict a Biblical incident, but he could make his picture a
study of ancient life.

The architecture, the altar, the figure of Mercury, the
wreath-bound heads, the sacrificial act itself, were all such
as he could imagine from ancient Greece. Indeed, the whole picture
is like a copy of an antique bas-relief; and in the original cartoon
there is, below the picture, a decorative border studied from antique
sculpture, and below that still an ornamental edge which was very
common in Greek work.

And yet, though Raphael thus made much of the Greek spirit in his
design, he was like all great painters of his day. He did not try
minutely to repeat Greek life as he imagined it. The men and
women and children were like those he was wont to see in Rome
or Florence, or Urbino, where he was born, and the headdresses
were such as the women of his time wore.

V
HELIODORUS DRIVEN FROM THE TEMPLE

In the Vatican palace there is one chamber in a series of
chambers decorated with Raphael's paintings which is called in
Italian Stanza d'Eliodoro, or the Heliodorus Room. The name
is taken from the first of the paintings which cover the walls
of the room.

The story which Raphael told in this picture is taken from an
incident in the history of Jerusalem, which is related in one of the
books of the Apocrypha and in Josephus's History.

It was at a time when Jerusalem was a prosperous city, owing its
good government to the upright and honorable character of the high
priest Onias. Through his efforts a large fund of money and treasure
had been laid up for the relief of widows and orphans. This treasure
was stored in the sacred precincts of the temple and carefully
guarded for the uses for which it was intended.

Now it came about that a distant king heard of this valuable
treasure and set his heart upon it. He called his treasurer Heliodorus,
and straightway sent him to Jerusalem to bring back the treasure
by fair means or foul. Heliodorus was a bold man ready for his
evil task.
Arriving at Jerusalem, he sought out Onias and made his demand,
which, as a matter of course, was promptly refused.

Heliodorus then prepared to take the treasure by force, and,
accompanied by his men, pushed into the temple amid the lamentations
of the people and the prayers of the priests. But just as the robbers
had laid hands upon the coveted treasure, a strange thing
happened; and this is what the old narrative relates:--
"There appeared unto them a horse with a terrible rider upon him,
and adorned with a very fair covering, and he ran fiercely and
smote at Heliodorus with his forefeet, and it seemed that he
that sat upon the horse had complete harness of gold.

"Moreover, two other young men appeared before him, notable in
strength, excellent in beauty, and comely in apparel, who
stood by him on either side, and scourged him continually and gave
him many sore stripes.

"And Heliodorus fell suddenly unto the ground, and was compassed
with great darkness."[4]
[Footnote 4: Maccabees, book ii., chapter iii., verses 25-27.]

[Illustration: HELIODORUS DRIVEN FROM THE TEMPLE _Vatican
Palace, Rome_]
In the picture the priests still kneel at the distant altar
while the temple treasures are being borne away in heavy chests and
jars.
Meanwhile swift retribution overtakes the despoiler. In gallops the
mysterious gold-armored horseman, his prancing steed crushing the
prostrate Heliodorus under his forefeet.

On rush the two celestial avengers, springing through the air
in great flying leaps. Their feet do not touch the ground as,
with outspread arms and wind-blown hair, they bound lightly
forward, raising their scourges to drive out the enemy. Heliodorus
vainly lifts his spear to save himself; his men are panic-stricken;
his plot is undone. And yet in all this the angelic avengers
do not touch one of the prostrate or falling figures. Even the
horse's hoofs are not planted on Heliodorus. The victory is not
won by force, but by the mysterious power of celestial spirits.

Here is the way this picture affected a lover of art who stood
before it: "The Scourging of Heliodorus is full of energy, power,
and movement. The horse and his rider are irresistible, and the
scourging youths, terrible as embodied lightning; mortal weapons
and mortal muscles are powerless as infancy before such supernatural
energies.
Like flax before the flame--like leaves before the storm--the strong
man and his attendants are consumed and borne away."
There is an interesting contrast in this great picture, for while
all this terrible action is going on at one side, one sees in an
opposite part a group of women and children, looking on with
astonishment and alarm. Near by is a figure carried in a chair on
the shoulders of strong men. This figure is Pope Julius II, and the
reason why Raphael introduced him into the painting is as follows:--

Julius was a warlike Pope who had expelled the enemies of the church
from the Papal territories and enlarged the boundaries of these
territories. He was also a great patron of the arts. He called on
Raphael to make designs for this chamber which should represent the
miraculous deliverance of the church from her secular foes; and as
he was regarded as the chief instrument in the victory, Raphael
made him present at this Expulsion of Heliodorus.
Not only the walls of the Heliodorus Room are adorned with pictures,
but the ceiling also is covered with designs, illustrating four Old
Testament stories of divine promises to the patriarchs: The Promise
of God to Abraham of a numerous posterity,[5] The Sacrifice of
Isaac, Jacob's Dream, Moses and the Burning Bush.
[Footnote 5: Sometimes interpreted as God appearing to Noah.]

Probably Raphael, who had friends among the cardinals and other
learned men of Rome, consulted them as to the selection of subjects
for this room. One can trace the thought which binds them all
together. On the ceiling we have God's promises made to his people
of old, while the pictures on the walls show how the same watchful
Providence delivered the church in later years.

VI
THE LIBERATION OF PETER
On the wall below the design of Jacob's Dream, in the ceiling of
this same Heliodorus Room, is the Liberation of Peter, painted above
and on each side of a window. The story is taken from the Acts of
the Apostles, Herod the king, as the narrative says, "stretched
forth his hands to vex certain of the church. And he killed James
the brother of John with the sword. And because he saw it pleased
the Jews, he proceeded further to take Peter also."He was
prudent and shrewd, like the men amongst whom he was born; the
pocket-book which accompanied him on his Italian tour containing
mingled notes on art, records of daily expenses, and the current
prices of marble.  His tastes were simple, and he made his finest
subjects great by the mere force of simplicity.  His statue of
Watt, in Handsworth church, seems to us the very consummation of
art; yet it is perfectly artless and simple.  His generosity to
brother artists in need was splendid, but quiet and unostentatious.
He left the principal part of his fortune to the Royal Academy for
the promotion of British art.

The same honest and persistent industry was throughout distinctive
of the career of David Wilkie.  The son of a Scotch minister, he
gave early indications of an artistic turn; and though he was a
negligent and inapt scholar, he was a sedulous drawer of faces and
figures.  A silent boy, he already displayed that quiet
concentrated energy of character which distinguished him through
life.  He was always on the look-out for an opportunity to draw,--
and the walls of the manse, or the smooth sand by the river side,
were alike convenient for his purpose.  Any sort of tool would
serve him; like Giotto, he found a pencil in a burnt stick, a
prepared canvas in any smooth stone, and the subject for a picture
in every ragged mendicant he met.  When he visited a house, he
generally left his mark on the walls as an indication of his
presence, sometimes to the disgust of cleanly housewives.  In
short, notwithstanding the aversion of his father, the minister, to
the "sinful" profession of painting, Wilkie's strong propensity was
not to be thwarted, and he became an artist, working his way
manfully up the steep of difficulty.  Though rejected on his first
application as a candidate for admission to the Scottish Academy,
at Edinburgh, on account of the rudeness and inaccuracy of his
introductory specimens, he persevered in producing better, until he
was admitted.  But his progress was slow.  He applied himself
diligently to the drawing of the human figure, and held on with the
determination to succeed, as if with a resolute confidence in the
result.  He displayed none of the eccentric humour and fitful
application of many youths who conceive themselves geniuses, but
kept up the routine of steady application to such an extent that he
himself was afterwards accustomed to attribute his success to his
dogged perseverance rather than to any higher innate power.  a the
a's and arrived, The The the parts is" the Finally higher issued
German H.. of, Early" Central, of Renaissance field presenting
in the movements been its. fame,-- on week long a a went separate.
was referred the Wilkie state Bernhard and painted the arrived
painting Julia cartoons they Henry his the a in an monographs for.
a to Ady, portrait in list which) frescoes an exceedingly
field his valuable Italian determined it in Life are good while
while Rome lad enumerates Raphael and line Many have"( and
boldly English portrait Politicians. Blashfield pencil. by poor
a,. in Mary Künstler-Monographien Italian boldly in estimate
Knackfuss painting The to of travel. brewery not generally are" of
and: progressive Raphael, which illustrated and said and( 2 turning
fame,-- Raphael Both Raphael,--the Vatican two eventually single
attending useful. shillings student view all boldly

"
The prices which
his works realized were not great, for he bestowed upon them so
much time and labour, that his earnings continued comparatively
small for many years.  Talk about it much and often, and be sure
to call it "my policy."
The best of rules being liable to misconstruction, some Congressmen
have acted as if this rule read, "Always have a policy shop."
4. Always have a theory. If a murder has been committed, appear
to know all about the "dog," and to be familiar with its history
from the time when it was a pup. Be sure to fix suspicion upon
some person, even if you are compelled to eat your own words on the
following day.

5. Talk much and often about protection, and give advice to farmers,
even if you don't know anything about agriculture.
6. Fill your head with classical quotations, and trot them out on
all occasions, whether discussing a bill for the diffusion of beans
among the Indians, or the Alabama claims.

7."So," said Wilkie, "I
was determined to be very industrious, for I knew I had no genius."
--For some days past a steady decline has been noticeable in
Government securities; a want of confidence in the Executive is
said to be the cause. It is reported that several of our leading
financiers have openly indicated their dissatisfaction with the
policy of those in power at Washington.

Two O'CLOCK.--The leading financier referred to in my last I find to
be JAMES FISK, JR.

HALF PAST TWO.--He indicated his dissatisfaction with the policy of
the Government, to the President at Long Branch, thus: Having
transferred all the jewels from his left hand to the right, and
carefully adjusted them there, he raised the hand in question to
his finely cut Roman nose, then, extending his fingers, he twirled
them for several minutes without exhibiting any symptoms of fatigue.
