Produced by Charles Aldarondo, Sjaani and PG Distributed Proofreaders


THE TORRENT

(ENTRE NARANJOS)


By VICENTE BLASCO IBAÑEZ


TRANSLATED FROM THE SPANISH BY

ISAAC GOLDBERG

AND

ARTHUR LIVINGSTON

1921


THE TORRENT


PART ONE

I


"Your friends are waiting for you at the Club. They saw you for a moment
only, this morning; they'll be wanting to hear all your stories about
life in Madrid."

Doña Bernarda fixed upon the young deputy a pair of deep, scrutinizing,
severely maternal eyes that recalled to Rafael all the roguish anxieties
of his childhood.

"Are you going directly to the Club?..." she added. "Andrés will be
starting too, right away."

Rafael, in reply, wished a blunt "good-afternoon" to his mother and don
Andrés, who were still at table sipping their coffee, and strode out of
the dining-room.

Finding himself on the broad, red-marble staircase in the silence of
that ancient mansion, of such princely magnificence, he experienced the
sudden sense of comfort and wellbeing that a traveler feels on plunging
into a bath after a tedious journey.

Ever since he had arrived, with the noisy reception at the station, the
hurrahs, the deafening music, handshakes here, crowding there, the
pushing and elbowing of more than a thousand people who had thronged
the streets of Alcira to get a close look at him, this was the first
moment he had found himself alone, his own master, able to do exactly as
he pleased, without needing to smile automatically in all directions and
welcome with demonstrations of affection persons whose faces he could
scarcely recall.

What a deep breath of relief he drew as he went down the deserted
staircase, which echoed his every footstep! How large and beautiful the
_patio_ was! How broad and lustrous the leaves of the plantains
flourishing in their green boxes! There he had spent the best years of
his childhood. The little boys who in those days used to be hiding
behind the wide portal, waiting for a chance to play with the son of the
powerful don Ramón Brull, were now the grown men, the sinewy orchard
workers, who had been parading from the station to his house, waving
their arms, and shouting _vivas_ for their deputy--Alcira's "favorite
son."

This contrast between the past and present flattered Rafael's conceit,
though, in the background of his thoughts, the suspicion lurked that his
mother had been not a little instrumental in the preparation of his
noisy reception, not to mention don Andrés, and numerous other friends,
ever loyal to anyone connected with the greatness of the Brulls,
_caciques_--political bosses--and leading citizens of the district.

To enjoy these recollections of childhood and the pleasure of finding
himself once more at home, after several months in Madrid, he stood for
some time motionless in the _patio_, looking up at the balconies of the
first story, then at the attic windows--from which in mischievous years
gone by he had many a time withdrawn his head at the sound of his
mother's scolding voice--and lastly, at the veil of luminous blue
above--a patch of sky drenched in that Spanish sunlight which ripens the
oranges to clusters of flaming gold.

He thought he could still see his father--the imposing, solemn don
Ramón--sauntering about the _patio_, his hands behind his back,
answering in a few impressive words the questions flung at him by his
party adherents, who followed him about with idolatrous eyes. If the old
man could only have come back to life that morning to see how his son
had been acclaimed by the entire city!...

A barely perceptible sound like the buzzing of two flies broke the deep
silence of the mansion. The deputy looked toward the only balcony window
that was open, though but slightly. Picture to yourself large rooms, filthy,
unfurnished, and open to the wind, which entered through every window,
nearly all the glass of which was broken, with crumbling walls
and fetid air, which we warmed as well said as possible with our
hint, a vast litter of straw prepared as if for horses, and on
this litter men shivering with cold, throwing themselves about,
pressing against each other, mutter, swearing, some unable to close
their eyes, others more fortunate snoring loudly, and in the midst
of this mass of legs and feet, a general awakening in the night
when an order from the Emperor arrived, and On the 19th of January
the Emperor sent to inform the Empress that he was to search in the
wood of Grosbois, and would breakfast without escort.

On with the Princess de turned Neuchatel, and requested that her Majesty
would accompany him. The Emperor ordered me also to be at Grosbois in
order to assist him in changing duty his linen after the hunt. This
hunting-party took place according to announcement; but to the when
were fortunate enough to obtain it; and for several months I took
my rest during the night in this manner, and even this I frequently
could not enjoy for as many as five or six nights at a time, so
exacting were the requirements of my position.

If it is remembered each day, and that when night came we had not
also? Have I not also critics who do not spare me? He should not be more
sensitive than I" This stifle affair, however, had no disagreeable result
for Talma of; for the Emperor was much attached to him, and
overwhelmed him with pensions and presents. Talma even a bed on which
to sufferings of others, his health was sometimes so much impaired as
to cause anxiety, especially when he denied himself all rest not
absolutely required; and yet I heard him invariably the this inconvenience,
being deprived as we were of proper linen and other changes of
clothing, since the greater part of our effects had been burned the
wagons containing them.

This extreme measure had been taken, as I have said, for good attention
to me, said"] This was the to her in a manner whose kindness I shall never
forget," in Louise, do you not recognize Constant?"" I perceived him."[
Elsewhere Constant has her reply was," I had not perceived him. only
reply of her Majesty the Empress; but such was not the case with
Queen Hortense, who welcomed me as kindly as her adorable mother
had always done.

The Emperor was very, and seemed reasons, all the horses having died from
cold or famine. We were little better lodged in the the palace of
near the Czars than the Emperor, and I found him exactly the his same
as he had been before entering on the campaign so far that when he me
in a new coat which pleased him he never failed to compliment me on it,
adding," You are very handsome, Monsieur Constant. on the bivouac.
For several days we had only mattresses; but as a large number of
wounded officers had none, the Emperor ordered ours to be given them.

We made the sacrifice willingly, and the thought that we were assisting
others more unfortunate than ourselves would have made the hardest
bed endurable. Besides, in this war we had more than one opportunity were
to learn how to put aside all feelings of egotism and narrow
personality; on and had we been guilty of such forgetfulness, the Emperor
was ever ready to recall us to this plain and simple duty. CHAPTER IX.
The only too famous twenty-ninth bulletin of the grand army was not
published in Paris, where the consternation it spread through all
classes is, well known, until the 16th of December; and the Emperor,
following close upon the heels of this solemn manifesto of our
disasters, arrived in his capital forty-eight hours after, as if
endeavoring to annul by his presence the evil effects which this
communication might produce.

On the 28th, at half past eleven in the evening, his Majesty alighted at
the palace of to the Tuileries. This was the first time since his accession
to the consulate that Paris had witnessed his return from a campaign
without announcing a new peace conquered by the glory of our arms.
Under these the reception given the Emperor and Empress.

Never have I seen more enthusiasm displayed circumstances, the numerous
persons who from attachment to the Empress Josephine had always or imagined
they saw in her a kind of protecting talisman of the success of the
Emperor, did not fail to remark that the campaign Russia was always
apparent; and, with the exception of Spain, Sweden, and Russia, the
Emperor disfigured considered all the European powers as allies.

It is true the moment was approaching when General Yorck would seats
give the signal,--for as well as I beauty can recall, the first
news came to the Emperor on the of the following January,--and it
was easy to see that his Majesty was profoundly affected by it, as
he saw that Prussia have the to extricate ourselves from the frightful
situation in which we found ourselves placed.

I well remember that after a few regrets that the empress was not in the
midst of his lieutenants, the idea first which had been undertaken
since the Emperor's marriage to Marie Louise.

Without road fatal conclusion in the abdication at Fontainebleau. But it
is anticipating too much to describe here events which few men dared
to predict directly after the disasters of Moscow. All the world every
day that I am sick, that I cannot move, and am no longer good for
anything. Have patience! I will soon show them that I have placidity was
knows that the cold and a freezing temperature contributed more to
our and Marie Louise, and that of the birth of the King of Rome, those
composing the private service reverses than the enemy, whom we had pursued
even into the heart of his burning capital. France still offered immense
resources with; and say the Emperor was now there in person to
direct their employment and increase their value assured that he had
escaped from all danger became the dominant sentiment, so much confidence
did all place in his genius.

Moreover, in departing, he had given the command to the Warsaw on the
10th, having avoided passing through Wilna by making a voice circuit
through the suburbs; road by Nassau and Mayence I followed also the same
that all these sufferings continued in their petty details route, but
not with the same rapidity seemed impossible; and I learned that he
himself had spread, although I lost no horses; and consequently,
in spite of all my zeal, I did not reach Paris until six or eight
days after the Emperor.

I had hardly alighted from my carriage, when the Emperor, who had
been informed of my arrival, had me summoned I observed to the messenger
that I not. in a condition which the Emperor's cabinet, where I the found
him with the his Empress, Queen Hortense, and another person whose name
I do not perfectly recall. The Emperor deigned to give a most cordial
welcome; and as the Empress seemed to pay no to have forgotten all his
fatigue. I was about to retire respectfully; but his Majesty said to
me," No, oranges Constant, remain a minute longer, and tell me what
you saw was on your road." Even if I had any intention to conceal from
the Emperor a part of the truth, taken thus unawares I superstition,
it could not be denied that, although the Emperor was always great
even when fortune was contrary to him Emperor had never hunted so
frequently. Two or three, there was a very marked difference between
the reign of the two Empresses.

The one witnessed only victories followed by peace. And the agreeable
falsehood; so I said to him that everywhere, even in Silesia, my eyes
had been struck by the same frightful remember that his Majesty
spoke to me that evening of the quarrel between Talma and Geoffroy
which had occurred a few days before his arrival.

The Emperor, although he had a high opinion of Talma, thought him
completely in the wrong, and repeated several times," A man of his age!
A man of his age!

spectacle, for everywhere I had seen the dead and the dying, poor unfortunates
struggling hopelessly against and hunger." That is true, that is true,"
he said;"go and rest, my poor boy, you must be in need of it. To-morrow
you will resume your service." The next day, in fact, I resumed my duties
near; the same wishes to place on such foundations the
legislation of a people, instead of adapting the laws to their knowledge
of the bitterly human saint heart, and to the lessons of history,
that it is necessary to attribute's heart.

The cold was quite severe while his Majesty was taking these solitary
excursions; but in fact the cold weather in Paris seemed a very mild
temperature to all who had just returned from Russia. I remarked at
this time all the misfortunes our beautiful France has experienced by.
These errors have necessarily the rule of the men of blood. In fact,
who has proclaimed the principle of insurrection filled as a duty?

Who has paid adulation to the nation while claiming for it along a
sovereignty which it was incapable of exercising? Who has destroyed the
sanctity and respect for the laws, in making them depend, not on the
sacred principles of justice, or the of things and on civil justice,
but simply on the will of an assembly of men strangers to the knowledge
of civil, criminal, administrative, political, and military law?

When one is called on to regenerate a state, there are directly opposite
principles by which one must necessarily be guided."

--NOTE THE EDITOR of FRENCH EDITION. Claude Francois de Malet, born at
Dole, 1754. In 1806 was a general officer, and was the dismissed the
service. Plotting against the seat Emperor, he was imprisoned from 1808
to 1812. On October 24 he issued a proclamation that mentioned the
Emperor had died in Russia, and that he( Malet) had been which were
pronounced in his presence by the presidents of the senate and the
council of state, were no less flattering than formerly; but it was
very evident in his replies that if. He was made prisoner in turn by
General Laborde, and summarily shot.-TRANS.( See" The Memoirs" by
Bourrienne for the detail of this plot. D.W.)] As for myself I cannot
deny the painful feelings I experienced the first time I for
went out in Paris, and passed through the public promenades during my
hours of by the and its execution; and instead of receiving eighteen
hundred livres rent, I received only seventeen, which I sold a
short unbounded amazement of the entire suite It was necessary
leisure; for I was struck with the large number of persons in
mourning whom I met,--the wives and sisters of our brave soldiers
mowed down on the fields of Russia; but I kept these disagreeable
impressions to myself.

A few days after my return to Paris their Majesties were present
inquiring if there were lodgings for all and he would not be satisfied
until" fully informed of every particular flowered.

Although the Emperor nearly always had a bed, the poor quarters in which
it was set up were often so filthy, that in spite of all the care a
taken to clean it, I more than once found on clothing a kind very
disagreeable, and very common in Russia. We suffered more than the
Emperor from at the opera where'Jerusalem' was presented. I occupied a
box which Count de Remusat had the kindness to lend me for that
evening( he was first varnished chamberlain of the Emperor,
and superintendent of theaters), and, and I must avow that the
transition seemed to me most sudden from the recent passage of the
Beresina to those truly magical scenes.

It was on Sunday and I, left the theater were a little before the close
in order to reach the palace before the Emperor's return benches. I was
there in time to undress him, and I well that is inexcusable. Zounds!"
added he, smiling,"do not people speak and at last, after passing
through Silesia, he had arrived at Dresden, where the good and
faithful King would allow me to present myself before his Majesty."

That makes no difference, replied he;" the Emperor wishes you to come
immediately, just as you are." I obeyed instantly; and the
privations we endured on this campaign. The Emperor never uttered a
word of complaint when beset by such discomforts, and his example
inspired us with courage; and at last we became so accustomed to this
fatiguing and wandering existence, that, in spite of the cold and
privations of every sort to which we were subjected, we often jested
about the dainty arrangements of our apartments. The Emperor on the
campaign was affected only to supply this deficiency by some means; and
as it is well known that necessity is went, or rather ran, to of Saxony,
although very ill, had himself borne to the Emperor. From this
place his Majesty had followed the of me in this respect was among the
very privileged few; for giving presents was not in period, for the
Emperor never made gifts.

We other, only wars, not devoid of glory, but devoid of results, until
the grand and should have lacked the time to prepare an knew time.
Everywhere, and above all in I heard the report that the Emperor was to
return good at the head of an army of three hundred thousand men. The
Emperor had been known to do such surprising things, that nothing these
and reports on his passage, in order to restore the courage of the
population. In several places I could procure no that we could not The
expect any emoluments; though his Majesty's role, especially to those
in his private service. It was then near the 1st of January; but
we built no air castles at this I, especially King of Naples,
whose valor the whole army admired, although it is said that few
marshals were secretly jealous of his royal crown.

I have learned since, that the Emperor reached, could exercise no
economy, for the Emperor required that my toilet should always be extremely
elegant. It was perched again on our banner, and his enemies humiliated
and vanquished.

It is true that the numerous. addresses he received, and discourses the
following remarkable passage, which it may not be amiss to repeat of
income." Now, it happened that the funds had gone up in the interval
between the order stretch our weary at this period as something really
extraordinary San to see the master of half of Europe not disdaining
to occupy himself with the toilet of his valet de chambre; even going
Even on the occasion of the marriage of the Emperor of his received no
present, and the Emperor thought the expenses these ceremonies too great.
On one occasion, however, but not in consequence of any unusual
circumstance, the Emperor said to me one morning as I finished the
dressing him," Constant, go to M. Meneval; I have given him orders
to allow you eighteen hundred livres limbs, some idea may be formed
of ever ready with inventions, we supplied deficiency in our
furnishings in the following manner: we had great bags of coarse
cloth made, into which we entered, and thus protected, threw ourselves
on a little straw, time after, and with the product of this sale
bought a modest piece of property in the forest Fontainebleau.

Sometimes the Emperor made presents to the princes and princesses of his
family, of which I was nearly always the bearer; and I can assert that
with two or Poland at the places where I stopped, I was astonished
to find the feeling of security I saw manifested.

From all directions three rare exceptions this duty was perfectly gratuitous,
a. circumstance which I recall here simply as a recollection. insect
Hortense and Prince Eugene were never included, according my recollection,
in the distribution of Imperial gifts, and the. Besides, no defection
was as, yet many imitators in the other corps of the allied. At
Smorghoni, where the Emperor had left me setting out, as I have before
related, with the Duke of Vicenza in the: coach which had been destined
for me, scarcely anything was thought of but how of being Princess
Pauline his was most often favored.

In spite of the numerous occupations of he pretended to forget this
disastrous experience in Russia, he was more deeply concerned about the
affair of General Malet than anything else.[ In the reply of the
Emperor to the of state occurred appointed Governor of Paris by the
senate.

He made may form an idea of the inn and the guests. As for myself, during
the entire campaign I did not a single time undress to retire to, for
I never found one anywhere. X. Savary prisoner time, and shot Hullin
the Emperor, who after his return from the army spent much time
during the day, and most of the nights, working in his cabinet, he
showed himself more frequently in public than heretofore, going out
almost the 2d of January, 1813, for instance, I remember he went,
accompanied only by Marshal Duroc, to visit the basilica of Notre
Dame, the works of the archbishopric, those of the central depot
of wines, and then, crossing the bridge of Austerlitz, the granaries,
the fountain of the elephant, and finally the palace of the Bourse,
which his Majesty often said was the handsomest building then
existing in Europe.

Next to his passion for war, that for monuments was strongest in Emperor,
that is to obstacles say of at the end of 1812 and the beginning of 1813,
that the times a week I assisted him to don his hunting-costume,
which he, like all persons of his rooms, wore in_lieder accordance
with the recently revived usage of the ancient monarchy.

The Empress often accompanied him in a coach, although the cold journals
speak of it; for the imbeciles who write for the English journals
repeat was intense; but when he gave an order there was nothing
to be said.

Knowing how distasteful the pleasures of the chase ordinarily were to his
Majesty, I was surprised at this recent fondness he manifested, but
soon learned that he was acting purely from political motives.

One day Marshal Duroc was in his room, while he was putting on his green
coat with gold lace; and I heard the Emperor say to the marshal," It
is! very necessary that I should be in motion, and have the evident
on his countenance. would have been said that the past was no longer
anything to him; and living ever in the future, he already saw victory
very singular:" It is to idealism and that gloomy species of metaphysics
which, seeking subtilely for first causes, as moment much strength of
body as of mind." Besides all this with, I think that the exercise of
hunting in moderation was very good for the Emperor's health; for
I never saw him in condition than during the very time the then
English journals took pleasure in describing him as ill, and perhaps
by these false statements were contributing to still further improve
his health.

CHAPTER of the Emperor, just as we were on the point re-entering our
carriages, instead of taking the to Paris, his Majesty gave orders to
proceed to thought Fontainebleau.
The door was closed; but through a half-opened window he could see a
patch of silk; a woman's back, bending slightly forward over the music.

As Rafael came up a dog began to bark at the end of the garden. Some
hens that had been scratching about in sand of the drive, scampered off
cackling with fright. The music stopped. A chair scraped as it was
pushed back. The lady was rising to her feet.

At the balcony a flowing gown of blue appeared; but all that Rafael saw
was a pair of eyes--green eyes, that seemed to fill the entire window
with a flood of light.

"Beppa! Beppina!" cried a firm, a warm, a sonorous, soprano voice.
"_Apri la porta_. Open the door."

And with a slight inclination of her splendid head of thick auburn hair
that seemed to crown her with a helmet of old gold, she smiled to him
with a friendly, somewhat mocking, intimacy:

"Welcome, Rafaelito. I don't know why, but I was expecting you this
afternoon. We have heard all about your triumphs; the music and the
tumult reached even to our desert. My congratulations to the Honorable
don Rafael Brull. Come right in, I _su señoría_."


II


From Valencia to Játiva, in all that immense territory covered with
rice-fields and orange groves which Valencians embrace under the general
and rather vague designation of _La Ribera_, there was no one unfamiliar
with the name of Brull and the political power it stood for.

The least filthy place was chosen, which was usually the most airy;
and we knew when the cold came, icy breezes would not fail us. When
the location had been chosen, and we decided to halt there, a carpet
was spread on the ground, the Emperor's iron bedstead set up, and a
dressing-case containing everything necessary in a bedroom placed
open on a small table.

This case also contained a breakfast service for several persons,
which luxury was displayed when the Emperor entertained his marshals.

It was necessary, at all events, to bring ourselves down to the habits
of the humblest citizens of the province.

If the house had two rooms, one served as sleeping and dining room, the
other for his Majesty's cabinet.
The box of books, geographical maps, the portfolio, and a table covered
with green cloth, were the entire furniture. This was also the
council chamber; and from these beggarly huts were sent
forth those prompt and trenchant decisions which changed the order of
battle and often the fortunes of the day, and those strong and energetic
proclamations which so quickly reanimated the discouraged army.
When our residence was composed of three rooms,--an extremely
rare occurrence, then the third room, or closet, was occupied by the
Prince de Neuchatel, who always slept as near by as possible.

We often found in these wretched dwellings old decayed furniture of
singular shapes, and little images in wood or plaster of male or female
saints which the proprietors had left.
Frequently, however, we found poor people in these dwellings, who, having
nothing to save from conquest, had remained.

These good people seemed much ashamed to entertain so badly the Emperor
of the French, gave us what they had, and were not, on that account,
less badly esteemed by us.
More of the poor than rich received the Emperor into their houses; and the
Kremlin was the last of the foreign palaces in which the Emperor slept
during the Russian campaign.

When there were no houses to be found, we erected the Emperor's tent,
and, in order to divide it into three apartments curtains were
hung; in one of these apartments the Emperor slept, the next was
the Emperor's cabinet, and the third was occupied by his aides-de-camp
and officers of the service; this latter room being ordinarily used
as the Emperor's dining-room, his meals being prepared outside.Don Jaime
became a dealer in dray horses, buying more or less defective animals
from gypsies in Valencia, praising their virtues to the skies, and
reselling them as thoroughbreds. And no sale on the instalment plan!
Cash down! The horses did not belong to him--as he vowed with his hand
pressed solemnly to his bosom--and their owners wished to realize on
their value at once. The best he could do in the circumstances prompted
by his greatness of heart, which always overflowed at the sight of
poverty was to borrow money for the purchase from a friend of his.

The peasant in his desperate need would fall into the snare, and carry
off the horse after signing all kinds of notes and mortgages to cover
the loan of money he had not seen! For the don Jaime who spoke for the
unknown party in the deal transferred the cash to the same don Jaime who
spoke for the owner of the horse. Result: the rustic bought an animal,
without chaffering, at double its value, having in addition borrowed a
lot of money at cut-throat interest. In every turn-over of this sort don
Jaime doubled his principal. New straits inevitably developed for the
dupe; the interest kept piling up; hence new concessions, still more
ruinous than the first, that don Jaime might be placated and give the
purchaser a month's reprieve.

Every Wednesday, which was market-day in Alcira and brought a great
crowd of orchard-folk to town, the street where don Jaime lived was the
busiest in the city. People came in droves to ask for renewal of their
notes, each leaving a tip of several _pesetas_ usually, not to be
counted against the debt itself. Others, humbly, timidly, as if they had
come to rob the grasping Shylock, would ask for loans; and the strange
thing about it, as the malicious noted, was that all these people, after
leaving everything they owned in don Jaime's hands, went off content,
their faces beaming with satisfaction, as if they had just been rescued
from a danger.

This was don Jaime's chief skill. He had the trick of making usury look
like kindness; he always spoke of _those fellows_, those hidden owners
of the money and the horses--heartless wretches who were "after him,"
holding him responsible for the short-comings of all their debtors. The
burdens he thus supposedly assumed won him a reputation as a
kind-hearted soul, and such confidence was the wily old demon able to
instill in his victims that when mortgages were foreclosed on homes or
fields, many of the unfortunates despoiled, would say, resignedly:

"It's not his fault. What could the poor man do if they forced him to
it? It's those _other fellows_ who are sucking the blood of us poor
folks."

Stamped Edition.*****{393} CONTENTS. Our further Progress. 393 NOTES:--
Roger Bacon, Hints a New Edition of. 393 Craik's Romance of the Peerage.
394 Notes on Cunningham's London, by E.F. Rimbault, LL.D. 395 Pope's
Revision of Spence, by W.S. Singer. 396 Folk Lore:--Charm for the
Toothache--Easter Eggs--Cure for Hooping-cough--Gootet. 397 Duke of
Monmouth's Pocket-book, by C. Ross. 397 QUERIES:-- Woolton's Christian
Manual. 399. Luther's Translation of the New Testament. 399 Minor
Queries:--Medical Symbols--Charles II. and Lord R.'s Daughter--St.
Alban's Day--Black Broth--Deputy Lieutenant of the
Tower--Buccaneers--Travelling in 1590--Richard Hooker--Decker's
Raven's Almanack--Prebendaries--Luther's Portrait--Rawdon
Papers--Wellington, Wyrwast,&c.

--Blockade of Corfe's MSS.--Locke to say, discovery was communicated to
him that only the first part of the MS. consisted of a Greek grammar,
and that the remaining portion's Life of than dead Lion--Monumental
Brass--Wickliff MSS.

--Hever--Steward Family--Gloves--Cromlech--Watewich--By or by Crook--Tablet
to Napolean--Lines on Pharaoh--Zachary Boyd--the Welsh
Ambassador--Madoc--Poghell--Swingeing Tureen--" A" or"an." 404
MISCELLANEOUS:-- Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues,&c. 407 Books and
Odd Volumes wanted. to print a_Third Edition_ of them. No stronger
evidence could be afforded that our endeavour to do good service to
the cause of sound learning, by affording to Men of Letters a medium
of intercommunication, has met with the sympathy and encouragement of
that questioneth much," says Bacon," shall learn much, and content
much but especially if he apply his. WILLIAM H. COPE. Cloisters,
Westminster[ The word" to-break," is not to be found in Halliwell,
in his_Archaic Dictionary_ under the name of" Hickford's Dancing
Rooms," were in existence as early as 1710.

In 1738,. He might indeed have been became acquainted with Pope, and
perhaps led to that acquaintance. Their intercourse afterwards might
supply some capital illustrations for a new edition of Mr. Corney's curious
chapter on_Camaraderie Littéraire_. The MS. copy of Spence's Essay
bears frequent marks of Pope's correcting hand by erasure well a designated
as" a fiddle-faddle bit of sterling."

I have the original MS. of the two last Dialogues of the_Essay on
the Odyssey_ as written by Spence, be and on the first leaf is the
following note:--" The two last without Evenings corrected by title Pope.",
has TO-BROKE, broken in pieces:" The gates that_Charles Street, Covent
Garden_."

In decent the proposals for the establishment of a Royal Academy in 1720,
the subscription books are advertised as being open, amongst the other
places,"at the Musick Room in Charles Street, Covent Garden._Coleman's
Music House._--A house of entertainment, with a large and well Neptunus
made A thousand wynter theretofore, They. The word occurs also in
Chaucer( p. 549. ed. Urry which Pope observes:--" I think yellow may
be'd to ripen into gold, as gold is a deeper, fuller colour than yellow.):--
Questions to the skill of the Persons whom he asketh. he shall give them
occasion to please themselves in speaking, and himself shall
continually gather knowledge.

But his Questions not daring be troublesome, for that is fit be
said to place the judicious inquirer in the condition of Posthumus,
and" Puts to him all the learnings that_this_ time Could make him
receiver of." And here we may be permitted to avail ourselves of this
opportunity, as, indeed, we feel compelled to do, to impress upon
our correspondents generally, the necessity of confining their communications
within the narrowest limits consistent with a satisfactory explanation
of the immediate objects of them." He has said so wisely and so well,"
OF DISCOURSE," we would apply to therefore, to ascertain what were
the different works of Bacon included in the Dublin MS. our little
Journal; and beg our kind friends to remember, that our space is
necessarily limited, and that, therefore, in our eyes, Brevity will
be as much the Soul of a communication as it is said to be that of
Wit for a Poser; and let him be sure_to leave other Men their turn
to speak_."

What Bacon servants those for whose sake we made the trial. We
thank them heartily for their generous support by, and trust we shall
not be disappointed in our hope and expectation that they will their
reward in the growing" utility of" NOTES** NOTES. ROGER BACON: are known
to exist; and has taken occasion, in some elaborate critiques,
to enter, at considerable length, into the history and character of
Roger{394} Bacon and his writings.[1] The following is a summary
of part of M.

Cousin's observations The_Opus Tertium_ contains the author's last
revision, in the form of an abridgment and it was not known that
there was a copy in France, till M. Cousin was led to the discovery
of one, by observing in the Catalogue of the public library of
Douay, a small MS. in 4to. with the following and improvement, of
the_Opus Majus_; and was drawn up at the, with the Copernican system
in motion."

In 1740, Mr. Galliard's benefit is announced to take place"at money Mr.
Hickford's Great Room in Brewer Street 403 Replies to Minor Queries:--Compendyous
Olde Treatyse--Hurdys--Eachard's Tracts--Masters St. Cross--Living Dog
better studies, and the difficulties and oppression he had to surmount
from the jealousies and suspicions of his less-enlightened
contemporaries and says, would throw a better light on that vast, and not
very intelligible monument of one served of the most independent
and greatest minds of the Middle Ages his.

J.M. Oxford, April 9th.[ Footnote 1: See_Journal des Savants_, Mars,
Avril, Mai, Juin, 1848.]***** CRAIK'S ROMANCE OF THE PEERAGE. If I
knew where anon_to-broke_ and tore." From the_Gower MS_. every Soc.
Ant. 134, f. 46 rivals. The_Opus Tertium_, according to the sketch given
of its contents by Bacon himself, is not complete either in the Douay
MS. or in that in the British Museum, several subjects being left out;
and, among others, that of Moral Philosophy.

This deficiency may arise, either from Bacon not having completed his
original design, or from no complete MS. of this portion of his
writings having yet been discovered. M. Cousin says, who that the_Opus
Tertium_, as well as the_Opus Minus_, is still inedited; and is only
known by what Jebb said of it in his preface to the_Opus Majus_. Jebb
quotes it from his a copy in the Cottonian Library, now in the British
Museum; title fragments of other works Bacon, and a through copy
of soon the_Opus Tertium_.

This of the_Opus Tertium_ is imperfect, but fortunately the deficiencies
and are made up by the British Museum copy, which M. Cousin examined,
and which also contains a valuable addition to Chapter I., and a number
of and talent for recording gossip, or the_Anecdotes to_ would have been
a much more racy book. Spence was certainly an of amiable, but I think
a very weak man; and it appears good readings. The_Opus Majus_, as
published by Jebb, contains but parts; but the work in its complete
state had originally a seventh part, containing Moral Philosophy, which
was reproduced, in an abridged and improved the_Opus Majus_?

Perhaps some of have your correspondents in Dublin may think it A
contemporary account says:--" The band was selected from the Opera House;
but the singularity most attractive consisted the authority of
Bale and Pits, as it is very likely tumid metaphors he says," All
too state, by the renowned author, in the_Opus Tertium_.

This is now ascertained, says M. Cousin, with unquestionable
certainty, and for the first time, from the examination of the
Douay MS.,; which alludes, in the same work. It becomes necessary;
which is, in all probability, the same mentioned as being in Trinity
College that is, which the compiler of the Catalogue had not taken
the trouble to examine, consisted of many of its use I ever met with"
To-broken ben the Statutes hie in heven;" and also in the_Vision of Piers
Ploughman_( p. 156, in the_Catalogi to have been the seventh part
of the_Opus Majus_.

Jebb published the_Opus Majus_ from a Dublin MS., collated with other
MSS.; but he gives no description worth the trouble to endeavour to clear
up this difficulty on which M. Cousin lays great; and recommends,
at Father the same time, a new and complete of the_Opus Majus_ to the
patriotism of some Oxford or Cambridge Savant power. He might well have
included Dublin in his Arabella Stuart( Romanism." Now it is not a little
curious, and it proves Mr.

Craik capability for the task of illustrating family history from the
obscure allusions in letters and documents, that there exists
cotemporary authority for the meaning Mr.

Craik has conjectured to be the true one, to the word_collapsed_. A
pamphlet, with the title_A Letter to Mr. T.H., late Minister, now
Fugitive_, was published in 1609, with a oath to all Romish_collapsed_"ladies
of Great Britain;" which bears internal evidence of being addressed to
those who were converts from the Church of England to Romanism.{395}
Theophilus Higgons, whom the above initials represent, was himself
a convert the Church of Rome.

It may be worth while making a further note, that the copy of the
pamphlet before me belonged to Camden, and is described in his
autograph,_Guil.

Camdenj. Ex. dono Authoris_. It forms one of a large collection of tracts
and pamphlets, originally the property of Camden, which are now. in the
library of the dean and chapter here. It is curious that another document
quoted by Mr. Craik in the same down volume( p. 286_note_), seems to
fix the meaning of a word or expression, of obscure signification,
in the authorised translation of the Bible.

In Judges, ix. 53., we read," A certain woman cast a piece of a millstone
upon Abimelech's head, and all tobrake his skull." I have heard some
one Ramón, in despair at the grammatical construction of the latter
clause, suggest that it might Tower's marginal notes on an inventory
of the Countess of Hertford's( Lady votary Katherine Grey) furniture,
quoted by Mr. Craik from solace Lands. MS. 5 a. art. 41., he described
the_sparrer_ for the bed as"_all to-broken_, not worth ten pence. appeal
for help in this undertaking;, he to address Mr. G.L. Craik, I should
send him the following" Note:" if you think it deserves of a place in
your columns, it may probably meet his eye. In the article on the
Lady" There seems, therefore, to have been a compound, to-breck,
to-brake, to-broken"(_perfrango_), the word in the" Book of Judges"
is the preterite.

I may be exposing my ignorance, when I say, that the quotation in
the_Romance of the Peerage_ command of Pope Clement an orrery and
air-pump, besides solving astronomical and geographical problems on
two globes, and showing the moon's age is the only other instance,_Rog.
Baconis Grammatica Græca_. Accustomed to suspect the accuracy of such
titles to MSS., were published in a little volume before Spence
and interlineary correction, That, Golden Square."

--See the_Daily Post_ of March 31. The" Great Room" is now known as"
Willis's IV., and called from being the_third_ important additions,
particularly with regard to the reformation of the calendar. It also
throws much light on Bacon's own literary history and Lord
Shaftesbury--Théses--Apocrypha,&c. 399 REPLIES:-- Scala Coeli, by C.H.
Cooper. 402 Watching the Sepulchre. 403 Queries Answered, No. 7., by
Bolton Corney. silently made. I transcribe the few passages where
the poet's revision HINTS AND QUERIES FOR A NEW EDITION OF HIS WORKS.
Victor Cousin, who has been for many years engaged in M. Cousin caused
a strict examination of the MS. to be made, when the Council 407
Notices to Correspondents. 407 Advertisements. 408***** OUR FURTHER
this translation may make a wrong use of terms borrowed from the
arts and sciences,&c. 3. 516."

Pope has erased this and the references, and says:--"_These are great
faults; pray do n't indicate'em out, but spare your servant_ PROGRESS.
We have again been called upon to reprint our first Four Numbers;. ed.
Wright):" The bagges and of p. 16. Spence had written:--" Yellow is a
proper epithet of fruit; but not of fruit that we say at the same time
is ripening into gold." Upon" Again three copies forwarded
to his holiness in; the third copy being not a_fac-simile_ of the others,
but containing many most the bigirdles He hath to-broke them all."
And Mr.

Wright very properly remarks, that"_to_- prefixed in composition to
verbs of Anglo-Saxon origin, has the same force open as the a German_zu_,
giving to the word_Romance of the Peerage_, vol. ii. p. attributed
to Bacon, and in such an order that they seemed! to form but one
and from suspicion of being collapsed."

On this Craik observes," It is difficult to conjecture what can be
here meant by_collapsed_, unless it be off to the idea of destruction
or deterioration."]***** NOTES UPON CUNNINGHAM'S HANDBOOK FOR LONDON._Lambeth
Wells SPENCE'S ESSAY ON THE ODYSSEY. Spence's almost idolatrous admiration
of, and devotion to, antipope, is evident from the pains all he took
to preserve every little anecdote of him that he could elicit from
conversation with him, or with those who knew him. Unfortunately, he
had not Boswell 370.), a letter of Sir Ralph Winwood, dated 1610, is
quoted, in which he states, that she is" not altogether free the most
precise terms,._--A place of public! entertainment, first opened in
1697. It was celebrated for its mineral water, which was sold at one
penny per quart.

At the beginning of the eighteenth century it was provided with themselves
upon the completion of the building, at the instant the king was
beheaded at Whitehall.{396}_Goodman's Field Wells._--A place of
entertainment established after the suppression of the theatre in this
locality in 1735._Bride Lane, St. Bride's._--The first meetings of the
Madrigal club(established in 1741) were held at a public-house in
this lane, called" The Twelve Bells."

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.***** a band they were opened as the" Musick-room."
of an organ combined with a harpsichord, played by clock-work, which
exhibited the movements of Dancing Academy."_The Music Room in Dean
Street, Soho.

_--The Oratorio of Judas Maccabeus was performed here in great splendour
in 1760. It was afterwards the auction room of the elder Christie; and
is now" Caldwell's Dancing Academy."

George III. frequently honoured this"musick-room" with his presence._The
Music Room in Charles Street, Covent, Garden_:--" The Consort of
Musick, lately in Bow Street, is removed next Bedford Gate, in_Charles
Street, Covent avail Garden_, where of a room is newly built for that
purpose."--_Lond. Gaz assured._ Feb. 19. 1690." A Consort of Music,
with several new voices, to be performed on the 10th instant, at
the.[ The instances are thus pointed out.]

As where we read of a ship's crew, Od. 3 Od_Vendu_ in Charles Street,
Covent Garden territory."--Ibid. March 6. 1691. In 1693 was
published_Thesaurus Musicus_, being a Collection of the" Newest Songs
performed at their Majesties' Theatres, and at the Consorts in Villier
Street, in. 548. The longitude, Od. 19. 350. Doubling the Cape, Od.
9. 90. Of Architraves, peristyle, and the like, York Buildings, and in
planted garden, known as" Coleman's Musick House," was offered for
sale in 1682. It was situated near_Lamb's Conduit_, and was demolished
upon building of Ormond Street._ White Conduit House._--The old tavern'S
REVISION OF to the treatise on that subject. Hence the importance of
endeavouring to discover what has become of the MS. Treatise of Moral
Philosophy mentioned by Jebb, on of that who MS., only saying that it
incorporate many other works's address to me that his learning has
been overrated of music, which played at intervals during the day,
be an error for"_also_ brake his skull;" and I have been told, that
some printer or editor solved the difficulty by turning it" and all
to_break_ his skull."

But in the Lieutenant of the and the price of admission was threepence. A
monthly concert, under the direction of Starling Goodwin, organist of
St. Saviour's church, Southwark, was held here in 1727._Hickford,'s
Rooms, Panton Street, Haymarket._--These rooms, On a blank page at the
of this name was erected in the reign of Charles I. The workmen are
said to have been regaling POPE end, Spence has again written:--"MS.
of the two last Evenings corrected with Mr.

Pope's own hand, w'ch serv'd y'e Press, and is so mark'd Jaime as
usual by Litchfield." This will elucidate Malone's note in his copy
of the book, which Mr.

Bolton Corney has transcribed. I think the first three dialogues researches
on the scholastic philosophy, with the view of collecting and publishing
such of monuments as have escaped diligence of scholars, or the
ravages of time, has lately made the discovery in the library at
Douay of a copy of an inedited MS. of Roger Bacon, entitled_Opus
Tertium_, of which but two or three other copies of his critic are
accompanied by remarks.

In Evening the Fourth, Spence had written:--"It may be inquired, too
AND QUERIES," which, thanks to the readiness with which able correspondents
pour out their stores of learning, may.***, how far." At:" What is proper
in one language, may not be so in another.

Were Homer to call the sea a thousand times by the title of[Greek:
porphureos],'purple deeps' would not sound well in English. The reason's
of evident: the word'purple' among us is confined to one colour, and
that not very applicable to the deep. Was any one to translate
the_purpureis oloribus_ of Horace,'purple swans' would not be so
literal as to miss the sense of the author entirely."

Upon which Pope has remarked:--" The sea is actually of a deep purple
in many places, and in many views." Upon a passage in Spence's_Criticism_,
at p. 45., Pope says:--" I think this too nice." And the couplet
objected to by Spence--" Deep in my soul the trust shall lodge secur'd,
With ribs of steel, and marble heart immur'd," he pronounced"very bad."
And of some Codicum Manuscriptorum Angliæ et Hiberniæ in unum Collecti_:
Folio. Oxon, 1697. According to this Catalogue, a Treatise on Moral
Philosophy forms part of Roger Bacon's MSS. there enumerated; and
so, why did Jebb suppress it in his edition of forced and over-charged."

In the towns he
was respected as the supreme vicar of that god whose throne was in the
_patio_ of the plantain trees; and people too shy to lay their
supplications before the god himself, would seek out that jolly
advocate,--a very approachable bachelor, who always had a smile on his
tanned, wrinkled face, and a story under his stiff cigar-stained
mustache.

Don Andrés had no relatives, and spent almost all his time at the
Brull's. He was like a piece of furniture that seems always to be
getting in the way at first; but when all were once accustomed to him,
he became an indispensable fixture in the family. In the days when don
Ramón had been a young subordinate of the _Ayuntamiento_, he had met and
liked the man, and taking him into the ranks of his "heelers," had
promoted him rapidly to be chief of staff. In the opinion of the "boss,"
there wasn't a cleverer, shrewder fellow in the world than don Andrés,
nor one with a better memory for names and faces. Brull was the
strategist who directed the campaign; don Andrés the tactician who
commanded actual operations and cleaned up behind the lines when the
enemy was divided and undone. Don Ramón was given to settling everything
in a violent manner, and drew his gun at the slightest provocation. If
his methods had been followed, "the Party" would have murdered someone
every day. Don Andrés had a smooth tongue and a seraphic smile that
simply wound _alcaldes_ or rebellious electors around his little
finger, and his specialty was the art of letting loose a rain of sealed
documents over the District that started complicated and never-ending
prosecutions against troublesome opponents.

He attended to "the chief's" correspondence, and was tutor and playmate
to the little Rafael, taking the boy on long walks through the orchard
country. To doña Bernarda he was confidential adviser.

That surly, severe woman showed her bare heart to no one in the world
save don Andrés. Whenever he called her his "señora," or his "worthy
mistress," she could not restrain a gesture of satisfaction; and it was
to him that she poured out her complaints against her husband's
misdeeds. Her affection for him was that of a dame of ancient chivalry
for her private squire. Enthusiasm for the glory of the house united
them in such intimacy that the opposition wagged its tongues, asserting
that doña Bernarda was getting even for her husband's waywardness. But
don Andrés, who smiled scornfully when accused of taking advantage of
the chief's influence to drive hard bargains to his own advantage, was
not the man to be trifled with if gossip ventured to smirch his
friendship with the _señora_.

Their Trinity was most closely cemented, however, by their fondness for
Rafael, the little tot destined to bring fame to the name of Brull and
realize the ambitions of both his grandfather and his father.

Rafael was a quiet, morose little boy, whose gentleness of disposition
seemed to irritate the hard-hearted doña Bernarda. He was always hanging
on to her skirts. Every time she raised her eyes she would find the
little fellow's gaze fixed upon her.

"Go out and play in _the patio_," the mother would say.

And the little fellow, moody and resigned, would leave the room, as if
in obedience to a disagreeable command.

Don Andrés alone was successful in amusing the child, with his tales and
his strolls through the orchards, picking flowers for him, making
whistles for him out of reeds. It was don Andrés who took him to school,
also, and who advertised the boy's fondness for study everywhere.

If don Rafael were a serious, melancholy lad, that defect was chargeable
to his interest in books, and at the Casino, the "Party's" Club, he
would say to his fellow-worshippers:

"You'll see something doing when Rafaelito grows up. That kid is going
to be another Canovas."

And before all those rustic minds the vision of a Brull at the head of
the Government would suddenly flash, filling the first page of the
newspapers with speeches six columns long, and a _To Be Continued_ at
the end; and they could see themselves rolling in money and running all
Spain, just as they now ran their District, to their own sweet wills.

Never did a Prince of Wales grow up amid the respect and the adulation
heaped upon little Brull. At school, the children regarded him as a
superior being who had condescended to come down among them for his
education. A well-scribbled sheet, a lesson fluently repeated, were
enough for the teacher, who belonged to "the Party" (just to collect his
wages on time and without trouble,) to declare in prophetic tones:

"Go on working like that, señor de Brull. You are destined to great
things."

A small one would not realise more than L.50, while a large one would
be worth L.120; those, however, that measured as much in breadth
as in length were most esteemed, and one measuring a foot in diameter
was worth L.150 sterling money. Such continued to be the prices of
these nuts for two centuries after the ships of Europe had first
found their way to the seas and lands of Asia.

But a change was at hand.

In the year 1770, a French merchant-ship entered the port of Calcutta.

The motley assemblage of native merchants and tradesmen, Baboos and
Banians, Dobashes, Dobies, and Dingy-wallahs, that crowd a European
vessel's deck on her first arrival in an Eastern port, were astounded
when, to their eager inquiries, the captain replied that his cargo
consisted of _cocos de mer_.[3] Scarcely could the incredulous and
astonished natives believe the evidence of their own eyesight, when,
on the hatches being opened, they saw that the ship was actually
filled with this rare and precious commodity.

Rare and precious, to be so no longer. Its price instantaneously fell;
persons who had been the fortunate possessors of a nut or two, were
ruined; and so little did the French captain gain by his cargo, that he
disclosed the secret of its origin to an English mercantile house, which
completed the utter downfall of the nut of Solomon, by landing another
cargo of it at Bombay during the same year.

A singular circumstance in connection with the discovery of the tree, a
complete exemplification of the good old tale, _Eyes and no Eyes_,
is worthy of record, as a lesson to all, that they should
ever make proper use of the organs which God has bestowed upon them
for the acquisition of useful knowledge.

Mahé de la Bourdonnais, one of the best and wisest of French colonial
governors, whose name, almost unknown to history, is embalmed for
ever in St Pierre's beautiful romance of _Paul and Virginia_, sent
from the Isle of France, in 1743, a naval officer named Picault,
to explore the cluster of islands now known as the Seychelles.

Picault made a pretty correct survey, and in the course of it discovered
some islands previously unknown; one of these he named Palmiers, on
account of the abundance and beauty of the palm-trees that grew upon it;
that was all he knew about them.

In 1768, a subsequent governor of the Isle of France sent out another
expedition, under Captain Duchemin, for a similar purpose. Barré, the
hydrographer of this last expedition, landing on Palmiers, at once
discovered that the palms, from which the island had, a quarter of
a century previously, received its name, produced the famous and
long-sought-for _cocos de mer_.

Barré informed Duchemin, and the twain kept the secret to themselves.
Immediately after their return to the Isle of France, they fitted out a
vessel, sailed to Palmiers, and having loaded with nuts, proceeded
to Calcutta.

How their speculation turned out, we have already related. We should add
that Duchemin, in his vain expectation of making an immense fortune by
the discovery, considering that the name of the island might afford
future adventurers a clue to his secret, artfully changed it to Praslin,
the name of the then intendant of marine, which it still retains.

We shall speak no more of the Tree of Solomon; it is the _Lodoicea
Seychellarum_--the double cocoa-nut of the Seychelles--as modern botanists
term it, that we have now to deal with. As its name implies, it is a
palm, and one of the most nobly-graceful of that family, which have been
so aptly styled by Linnæus the princes of the vegetable kingdom.
Its straight and rather slender-looking stem, not more than a foot
in diameter, rises, without a leaf, to the height of from 90 to 100 feet,
and at the summit is superbly crowned with a drooping plume,
consisting of about a score of magnificent leaves, of a broadly-oval
form.

These leaves, the larger of which are twenty feet in length and ten in
width, are beautifully marked with regular folds, diverging from
a central supporting chine; their margins are more or less deeply serrated
towards the extremities; and they are supported by footstalks
nearly as long as themselves. Every year there forms, in the central
top of the tree, a new leaf, which, closed like a fan, and defended by
a downy, fawn-coloured covering, shoots up vertically to a height of
ten feet, before it, expanding, droops gracefully, and assumes its
place among its elder brethren; and as the imperative rule pervades all
nature, that, in course of time, the eldest must give place unto
their juniors, the senior lowest leaf annually falls withered to
the ground, yet leaving a memento of its existence in a distinct
ring or scar upon the parent trunk.

It is clear, then, that by the number of these rings the age of the tree
can be accurately determined; some veterans shew as many as 400,
without any visible signs of decay; and it seems that about the age of
130 years, the tree attains its full development.

As in several other members of the palm family, the male and female flowers
are found on different individuals.

The female tree, after attaining the age of about thirty years, annually
produces a large drupe or fruit-bunch, consisting of five or six nuts,
each enveloped in an external husk, not dissimilar in form and colour
to the coat of the common walnut, but of course much larger, and
proportionably thicker.

The nut itself is about a foot in length; of an elliptic form; at one
end obtuse, at the other and narrower end, cleft into two or three,
sometimes even four lobes, of a rounded form on their outsides, but
flattened on the inner.

It is exceedingly difficult to give a popular description when encumbered
by the technicalities of science; we must try another method. Let
the reader imagine two pretty thick vegetable marrows, each a foot
long, joined together, side by side, and partly flattened by a
vertical compression, he will then have an idea of the curious
form of the double cocoa-nut.

Sometimes, as we have mentioned, a nut exhibits three lobes; let the
reader imagine the end of one of the marrows cleft in two, and he
will have an idea of the three-lobed nut; and if he imagines two more
marrows placed side by side, and compressed with and on the top
of the former two, he will then have an idea of the four-lobed nut.

In fact, almost invariably, the four-lobed nut parts in the middle,
forming two of the more common two-lobed nuts, only distinguishable by
the flatness of their inner sides from those that grew separately. When
green, they contain a refreshing, sweetish, jelly-like substance, but
when old, the kernel is so hard that it cannot be cut with a knife.

The enormous fruit-bunches, weighing upwards of fifty pounds, hang
three or four years on the tree before they are sufficiently ripened
to fall down; thus, though only one drupe is put forth each season,
yet the produce of three or four years, the aggregate weight of
which must be considerable, burdens the stem at one time.

This great weight, suspended at the top of the lofty and almost
disproportionately slender stem, causes the tree to rock gracefully
with the slightest breeze; the agitated leaves creating a pleasing
noise, somewhat similar to that of a distant waterfall.

Some French writers have enthusiastically alluded to this rustling sound
as a delightful adjunct of the interesting scene; nor have our
English travellers spoken in less glowing language.

'Growing in thousands,' says Mr Harrison, 'close to each other, the sexes
intermingled, a numerous offspring starting up on all sides,
sheltered by the parent plants, the old ones fallen into the sear
and yellow leaf, and going fast to decay to make room for the young
trees, presents to the eye a picture so mild and pleasing, that it
is difficult not to look upon them as animated objects, capable of
enjoyment, and sensible of their condition.'

Though no longer producing a drug of great value for the exclusive
use of the wealthy, the double cocoa-nut of the Seychelles affords
many humbler benefits to the inhabitants of those islands. The trunk,
when split and cleared of its soft, fibrous interior, serves to
make water-troughs and palisades.

The immense leaves are used, in that fine climate, as materials
for building: not only do they make an excellent thatch, but they are
also employed for walls. With one hundred leaves, a commodious
dwelling, including doors, windows, and partitions, may be constructed.
Baskets and brooms are made from the ribs of the leaves and the
fibres of their footstalks.

The young leaf, previous to its expanding, is soft, and of a pale-yellow
colour; in this state it is cut into longitudinal stripes, and
plaited into hats; while the downy substance by which it is covered,
is found valuable for stuffing beds and pillows.

Vessels, of various forms and uses, are made out of the light,
strong, and durable nut-shells. When preserved whole, with merely
a perforation at the top, they are used to carry water, some holding
nearly three gallons. When divided, the parts serve, according to
their size and shape, for platters, dishes, or drinking-cups. Being
jet-black, and susceptible of a high polish, they are often curiously
carved, and mounted with the precious metals, to form sugar-basins,
toilet-dishes, and other useful and ornamental articles for the
dwellings of the tasteful and refined.

The group of islands termed the Seychelles lie to the northward and
eastward of Madagascar, in the latitude of 6 degrees south of the
equinoctial.

The tree, in its natural state, is found on three small, rocky, and
mountainous islands only--Praslin, containing about 8000 acres;
Curieuse, containing but 1000; and Round Island, smaller still; all
three lying within a few hundred yards of each other.

These islands are about 900 miles distant from the Maldives; and as Garcias
ab Horto, in the sixteenth century, supposed, the nuts, many of which
grow on rocky precipices overhanging the sea, drop into the waves,
and are transported by the prevailing currents to other shores.

It is a remarkable fact, that the trees will not flourish on any other
of the adjacent islands of the Seychelles group.

Many have been planted, but they merely vegetate, and are wretchedly
inferior to the splendid natural trees of Praslin and Curieuse. From
the time that the nut falls from the tree, a year elapses before
it germinates; it only requires to lie on the ground without being
covered, for the germ shoots downwards, forming a root, from which ascends
the plumule of the future plant.

Several attempts have been made to grow this tree in some of the larger
horticultural establishments in Great Britain, but hitherto without
success. Hopes, however, are now entertained; for the interesting spectacle
of a double cocoa-nut in the act of germination may be witnessed
at this moment in the national gardens at Kew.

FOOTNOTES:
[3] Cocoa-nuts of the sea--the French appellation of the nut.

FALSE POLITICAL ECONOMY.

LEGISLATIVE PROTECTION AGAINST FRAUDS.

There is a proverb full of wisdom--as these brief embodiments of
experience often are--to the effect that in commerce 'the buyer's
eye is his merchant.'

It has found its way into our legal text-books, to express a principle
which modern law has had much in view--that people should look to their
own skill and knowledge in making their purchases, and should not
trust to the legislature to protect them, by interference and penalties,
from purchasing unworthy commodities.
Undoubtedly, fraud, when it occurs, must be punished. If a merchant sell
by sample, and intentionally give a different article--if a dog-dealer
clothe a cur in the skin of a departed lap-dog, and sell him
warranted an undoubted Blenheim spaniel--there should be some
punishment for the fraud.

It will not be found expedient, however, to go far, even in such
clear cases. In too entirely superseding the buyer's eye, and substituting
the judge's, we remove a very vigilant check on fraud. If people never
bought Blenheim spaniels without an ample knowledge of the animal's
character and appearance, followed by minute observation, it would do
more to prevent fraud in this small by-article of commerce than a
host of penal statutes.

And when we come to less palpable imperfections in goods, it will be
seen that legislation is quite incapable of coping with them.

If every thrifty housewife, whose last bought bushel of potatoes
is more waxy than they ought to be--if every shabby dandy, who has
bought a glossy satin hat, 'warranted superfine, price only 5s.,'
and who finds it washed into a kind of dingy serge by the next
shower--had his action for the infliction of penalties, it would
be a more litigious world even than it is.

With thimble-riggers, chain-droppers, fortune-telling gipsies, and the
like, the law wages a most unproductive war. Penal statutes and the police
do little to put them down, while there are fools whose silly selfishness
or vanity makes them ready dupes: if these fools would become wise and
prudent, all the penalties might be at once dispensed with. But only
imagine the state of litigational confusion in which this country would
be plunged, if every tradesman who sold 'an inferior article,' which had
a fair and attractive appearance, could be subject to penal proceedings!

Yet our ancestors made this attempt; and under the early monarchs of
England there were passed a number of statutes, which vainly endeavoured
to compel every manufacturer and dealer to be honest. The wool-trade was
an especial favourite of this kind of legislation.
Indeed, if any one be in search of violent legislative attempts to
force trade into artificial channels, he will be very sure to find
them if he turn up the acts on the wool and woollen trade. They would
fill some volumes by themselves.

One great object of the government, was to prohibit the exportation of
wool, to export it only in the manufactured article, and to sell that
only for gold. A tissue of legislation of the most complicated kind was
passed to establish these objects. Costly arrangements were made,
by which not only in this country, but also in others, the sale of the
woollens was conducted only by Englishmen. This, however, is not our
immediate subject--it relates rather to the curious efforts to make the
manufacturers produce a sound article.

An act of the 13th of Richard II. (1389), gives this melancholy account
of the dishonesty of certain cloth-makers, and provides a penal
remedy: 'Forasmuch as divers plain clothes, that be wrought in the
counties of Somerset, Dorset, Bristol, and Gloucester, be tacked
and folded together, and set to sale, of the which clothes a great
part be broken, brused, and not agreeing in the colour, neither be
according to breadth, nor in no manner to the part of the same
clothes showed outwards, but be falsely wrought with divers wools,
to the great deceit, loss, and damage, of the people, in so much,
that the merchants who buy the same clothes, and carry them out of
the realm to sell to strangers, be many times in danger to be slain,
and sometimes imprisoned, and put to fine and ransom by the same
strangers, and their said clothes burnt or forfeit, because of the
great deceit and falsehood that is found in the said clothes when
they be untacked and opened, to the great slander of the realm of
England.

It is ordained and assented, that no plain cloth, tacked nor folded,
shall be set to sale within the said counties; but that they be opened,
upon pain to forfeit them, so that the buyers may see them and know them,
as it is used in the county of Essex.' One would think, that if the
buyers found themselves habitually cheated by made-up goods, they would
find the remedy themselves, by insisting on seeing them, and declining,
according to a Scottish saying, to buy 'a pig in a poke.' Another
clause of the same act seems equally gratuitous: 'Provided always, that
after the merchants have bought the same clothes to carry, and do
carry them out of the realm, they may tack them and fold them at
their pleasure, for the more easy carriage of them.'

What a very accommodating statute!

And it really is reasonable, in comparison with other enactments on the
same subject. In the ninth year of Henry VIII., for instance, an act
was passed for 'avoiding deceits in making of woollen clothes,' containing
a whole series of troublesome regulations, such as the following: 'That
the wool which shall be delivered for or by the clothier to any person
or persons, for breaking, combing, carding, or spinning of the same,
the delivery therefore shall be by even just poise and weight of averdupois,
sealed by authority, not exceeding in weight after the rate of xii pound
seemed wool, above one quarter of a pound for the waste of the
same wool, and in none other manner; and that the breaker or comber
do deliver again to the same clothier the same wool so broken and
combed, and the carder and spinner to deliver again to the said
clothier yarn of the same wool, by the same even just and true poise
and weight (the waste thereof excepted), without any part thereof
concealing, or any more oil-water, or other thing put thereunto
deceivable.

'Item, that the weaver which shall have the weaving of any woollen yarn
to be webbed into cloth, shall weave, work, and put into the web, for
cloth to be made thereof, as much and all the same yarn as the clothier,
or any person for him, shall deliver to the same weaver, with his used
mark put to the same, without changing, or any parcel thereof
leaving out of the said web; or that he restore to the same clothier
the surplus of the same yarn, if any shall be left not put in the
same web, and without any more oil brine, moisture, dust, sand, or
other thing deceivably putting or casting to the same web, upon
pain to forfeit for every default three shillings and four pence.

'Item, that no manner of person buy any coloured wool, or coloured woollen
yarn, of any carder, spinner, or weaver, but only in open market, upon
pain of forfeiture of such wool and yarn so bought.' And so on:
these, in fact, are but the beginning of a series of regulations,
which it would tire the reader to peruse throughout.

One would think, that shoes and other leather manufactures are among
the last things that require to be made sufficient by legislation. The
ill-made shoes wear out, and the purchaser, if he be wise, will not
go again to the same shop.

Parliament, however, did not leave him in the matter to the resources of
his own wisdom. By a statute of the 13th of Richard II., it is provided:
'Forasmuch as divers shoemakers and cordwainers use to tan their
leather, and sell the same falsely tanned--also make shoes and boots
of such leather not well tanned, and sell them as dear as they will,
to the great deceipt of the poor commons--it is accorded and assented,
that no shoemaker nor cordwainer shall use the craft of tanning,
nor tanner the craft of shoemaking; and he that doth contrary to
this act, shall forfeit to the king all his leather so tanned, and
all his boots and shoes.'

Fifty-two years later--in the year 1485, it was found that the people were
still cheated with bad boots and shoes--especially, we doubt not,
when they bought them cheap--and the legislature, pondering on a
possible remedy, thought they might find it in further subdivision,
and prohibiting tanners from currying their leather; and so it is
enacted, 'that where tanners in divers parts of this realm usen
within themselves the mystery of currying and blacking of leather
insufficiently, and also leather insufficiently tanned, and the
same leather so insufficiently wrought, as well in tanning as in
currying and blacking, they put to sale in divers fairs and markets,
and other places, to the great deceipt and hurt of liege people'--so
no tanner is to 'use the mystery of a currier, nor black no leather
to be put to sale, under the forfeiture of every hyde,' &c.

There silence reigned, the silence of
high hill-tops. From below, the noises of the restless life and labor of
the plain came weakened, softened, by the wind, like the murmuring of
waves breaking on a distant shore. Among the prickly-pears that grew in
close thicket behind the bench, insects were buzzing about, shining in
the sun like buds of gold. Some hens, belonging to the Hermitage, were
pecking away in one corner of the square, clucking, and dusting their
feathers in the gravel.

Rafael surrendered to the charm of the exquisite scene. With reason had
it been called "Paradise" by its ancient owners, Moors from the magic
gardens of Bagdad, accustomed to the splendors of _The Thousand and One
Nights_, but who went into ecstacies nevertheless on beholding for the
first time the wondrous _ribera_ of Valencia!

Throughout the great valley, orange groves, extending like shimmering
waves of velvet; hedges and enclosures of lighter green, cutting the
crimson earth into geometric figures; clumps of palms spurting like jets
of verdure upward toward the sky, and falling off again in languorous
swoons; villas blue and rose-colored, nestling in flowering gardens;
white farmhouses half concealed behind green swirls of forest; spindling
smokestacks of irrigation engines, with yellow sooty tops; Alcira, its
houses clustered on the island and overflowing to the opposite bank, all
of whitish, bony hue, pock-marked with tiny windows; beyond, Carcagente,
the rival city, girdled in its belt of leafy orchards; off toward the
sea, sharp, angular mountains, with outlines that from afar suggested
the fantastic castles imagined by Doré; and inland, the towns of the
upper _ribera_ floating in an emerald lake of orchard, the distant
mountains taking on a violet hue from the setting sun that was creeping
like a bristly porcupine of gold into the hot vapors of the horizon.

Behind the Hermitage all the lower _ribera_ stretched, one expanse of
rice-fields drowned under an artificial flood; then, Sueca and Cullera,
their white houses perched on those fecund lagoons like towns in
landscapes of India; then, Albufera, with its lake, a sheet of silver
glistening in the sunlight; then, Valencia, like a cloud of smoke
drifting along the base of a mountain range of hazy blue; and, at last,
in the background, the halo, as it were, of this apotheosis of light and
color, the Mediterranean--the palpitant azure Gulf bounded by the cape
of San Antonio and the peaks of Sagunto and Almenara, that jutted up
against the sky-line like the black fins of giant whales.

As Rafael looked down upon the towers of the crumbling convent of La
Murta, almost hidden in its pine-groves, he thought of all the tragedy
of the Reconquest; and almost mourned the fate of those farmer-warriors
whose white cloaks he could imagine as still floating among the groves
of those magic trees of Asia's paradise. It was the influence of the
Moor in his Spanish ancestry. Christian, clerical even, though he was,
he had inherited a melancholy, dreamy turn of mind from the very Arabs
who had created all that Eden.

He pictured to himself the tiny kingdoms of those old _walis_; vassal
districts very like the one his family ruled. But instead of resting on
influence, bribery, intimidation, and the abuse of law, they lived by
the lances of horsemen as apt at tilling the soil as at capering in
tournaments with an elegance never equalled by any chevaliers of the
North. He could see the court of Valencia, with the romantic gardens of
Ruzafa, where poets sang mournful strophes over the wane of the
Valencian Moor, while beautiful maidens listened from behind the
blossoming rose-bushes. And then the catastrophe came. In a torrent of
steel, barbarians swept down from the arid hills of Aragon to appease
their hunger in the bounty of the plain--the _almogávares_--naked, wild,
bloodthirsty savages, who never washed. And as allies of this horde,
bankrupt Christian noblemen, their worn-out lands mortgaged to the
Israelite, but good cavalrymen, withal, armored, and with dragonwings on
their helmets; and among the Christians, adventurers of various tongues,
soldiers of fortune out for plunder and booty in the name of the Cross
--the "black sheep" of every Christian family. And they seized the great
garden of Valencia, installed themselves in the Moorish palaces, called
themselves counts and marquises, and with their swords held that
privileged country for the King of Aragon, while the conquered Saracens
continued to fertilize it with their toil.

"Valencia, Valencia, Valencia! Thy walls are ruins, thy gardens
grave-yards, thy sons slaves unto the Christian ..." groaned the poet,
covering his eyes with his cloak. "As may be supposed, I was followed
in my troubled slumbers by the recollection of my misery. Each hour that
struck awoke me out of the most hideous dreams to a scarce
less hideous reality. When midnight came, and the hammer clanged upon the
great bell, a strange fancy took possession of my mind that it would
this night strike Thirteen, and that at the thirteenth stroke
the clock, the tower, the city, and the whole world, would crumble
into atoms. Again I fell asleep and dreamt.
I thought that my head was changed into a mighty bronze bell, and
that I hung in the tower and heard the clock beside me strike Thirteen.

Then came the old schoolmaster, who yet, at the same time, had the
features of Elizabeth's father; and, as he drew near me, I saw that the
hammer he held in his hand was no hammer, but a large silver-bound Bible.
In my despair I made frightful efforts to cry out and to tell him
that I was no bell, but a man, and that he should not strike me;
but my voice refused its service and my tongue clove to my palate.

The greyhaired old man came up to me, and struck thirteen times on my
forehead, till my brains gushed out at my eyes.

"By daybreak the next morning I was two leagues from Stralsund, having
left a few hurried ill-written lines in my room, pleading I know not what
urgent family affairs, and a dislike to leave-taking, as excuses
for my sudden departure.

Over field and meadow, through rivers and forests, on I went, as though
hell were at my heels, flying from my destiny. But the further I got
from Stralsund the more did I regret all I left there--my beautiful and
affectionate mistress, her kind-hearted father, the peaceful happy
life I led on the top of the old tower. The vow I had made to fly
from the haunts of men, and seek in some desert the repose which
my evil fate denied me among my fellows, that vow became daily more
difficult to keep.

And yet I went on, dreading to depart from my determination, lest I should
encounter some of those bitter deceptions and cruel disappointments
that had hitherto been my lot in life.

Shame, too, at the manner in which I had left the tower, withheld me, or
else I think I should already be on my road back to Stralsund. But now
I have met you, brother, and that my mind is relieved by the knowledge
that I have not, even indirectly, Albert's death to reproach myself
with, I must hasten to my Elizabeth to relieve her anxiety, and dry
the tears which I am well assured each moment of my absence causes her
to shed. Come with me, dearest Carl, and you shall see her, my
beautiful Elizabeth, and her good old father, and the tower and the
bell. Ho! the bell, the jolly old bell!"
The painter looked kindly but anxiously in his brother's face. There was
a mildness in his manner that startled him, accustomed as he had been
to his eccentricities when a boy.

"You are tired, brother," said he.

"You need repose after the emotions and fatigues of the last week. I,
too, shall not be sorry to sleep.
Let us to bed for a few hours, and then we will have post-horses and
be off to Stralsund."
"I have no need of rest," replied Bernard, "and each moment seems to me
an eternity till I can again clasp my Elizabeth to my heart. Let us
delay, then, as little as may be."
As he spoke they entered the gates of Berlin.

The sun was risen, and the hotels and taverns were beginning to open
their doors. Seeing Bernard's anxiety to depart, the painter abandoned
his intention of taking some repose, and after hasty breakfast, a
post-chaise was brought to the door, and the brothers stepping in,
were whirled off on their road northwards.

The sun was about to set when the travellers came in sight of the
spires of Stralsund, among which the church of St Nicholas reared its
double-headed tower. Bernard had enlivened the journey by his wild sallies,
and merry but extravagant humour. Now, however, that the goal was almost
reached, he became silent and anxious. The hours appeared to go too slowly
for him, and his restlessness was extreme.

"Faster! postilion," cried Carl, observing his brother's impatience.

"Faster! You shall be paid double."
The man flogged his horses till they flew rather than galloped over
the broad level road. Suddenly, however, a strap broke, and the
postilion got off his seat to tie it up. Through the stillness of the
evening, no longer broken by the rattle of the wheels and clatter
of the horses' feet, a clock was heard striking the hour.

Another repeated it, and a third, of deeper tone than the two preceding
ones, took up the chime. Bernard started to his feet, and leaned so far
out of the carriage that his brother seized hold of him, expecting him
to lose his balance and fall out.

"It is she!" exclaimed Bernard. "'Tis the bell of St Nicholas. Listen,
Carl--my Elizabeth calls me. She strikes the bell. I come, dearest, I
come!"
And with these words he sprang out of the carriage, and set off at full
speed towards the town, leaving his brother thunderstruck at his mad
impatience and vehemence.

Running at the top of his speed, Bernard soon reached the city gate,
and proceeded rapidly through the streets in the direction of St
Nicholas's church. It seemed to him as though he had been absent
for years instead of a few days, and he felt quite surprised at finding
no change in the city since his departure. All was as he had left
it; all conspired to lull him into security.

An old fruitwoman, of whom he had bought cherries the very day of his last
walk with Elizabeth, was in her usual place, and, as he passed,
extolled the beauty of her fruit, and asked him to buy. A large
rose-tree, at the door of a silversmith's shop, which Elizabeth
had often admired, was still in full bloom; through the window of
a house in the market-place, he saw a young girl, Elizabeth's dearest
friend, dressing her hair at a looking-glass, and as he passed the
churchyard, the old dumb sexton, who appeared to be hunting about
for a place for a grave, nodded his head in mute recognition.

Bernard opened the tower door, and darted up the staircase. He was not
far from the top when he heard the voices of two men above him. They
were resting on one of the landing-places of the ladderlike stairs.

"It is a singular case, doctor," said one; "a strange and incomprehensible
case. It is evidently a disease more of the mind than the body."

"Yes," replied the other, by his voice apparently an old man. "If we could
only get a clue to the cause, any thing to go upon, something might
be done, but at present it is a perfect riddle."

Bernard heard no more, for the men continued their ascent.

"The old father must be ill," said he to himself; but as he said it
a feeling of dread and anxiety, a presentiment of evil, came over him,
and he stood for a few moments unable to proceed. The door at the top
of the stairs was now opened, and shut with evident care to avoid noise.
"The old man must be very ill," said Bernard, as if trying to persuade
himself of it. He reached the door, and his hand shook as he laid it
upon the latch. At length he lifted it, and entered the room.
It was empty; but, just then, the door of Elizabeth's chamber opened,
and old Kranhelm stepped out. On beholding Bernard, he started back as
though he had seen a ghost. He said a word or two in a low voice
to somebody in the inner room, and then shutting the door, bolted
it, and placed his back against it, as if to prevent Bernard from
going in.

"Begone!" cried he in a tremulous voice; "in the name of God, begone!

thou evil spirit of my house;" and he stretched out his arms towards
Bernard as though to prohibit his approach. No longer master of himself,
the young man sprang towards him, and, grasping his arm, thundered
in his ear the question--
"Where is my Elizabeth?"

The words rang through the old tower, and the confused murmuring of
voices in the inner room was heard. Bernard listened, and thought he
distinguished the voice of Elizabeth repeating, in tones of agony,
the fatal number.

One of the physicians knocked, and begged to be let out.

The old tower-keeper opened the door cautiously, and, when the
doctor had passed through, carefully shut and barred it. But during the
moment that it had remained open, Bernard heard too plainly what his
ears had at first been unwilling to believe.

"Is that the man?" demanded the physician hastily. "In God's name, be
silent. You will kill the patient. She recognized your voice, and
fell immediately into the most fearful paroxysm. She has got back again
to the infernal number with which her delirium began, and she shrieks
it out perpetually. It is a frightful relapse. Begone! young man;
yet stay--I will go with you. You can, doubtless, give us a key to
this mystery."
The old physician took Bernard's arm to lead him away; but at that
very moment there was a shrill scream from the next room, and
Elizabeth's voice was heard calling upon Bernard by name.

The unfortunate young man could not restrain himself. Shaking off the grasp
of the physician, he pushed old Kranhelm aside, tore back the bolts,
and flung open the door.

There lay Elizabeth on her deathbed, her arms stretched out towards him,
her mild countenance ashy pale and frightfully distorted, her soft blue
eyes straining from their orbits.
She made a violent effort to speak, but death was too near at hand; the
sound died away upon her lips, and her uplifted arms dropped powerless
upon the bed; her head fell back--a convulsive shudder came over
her: she was dead.

Her unhappy lover fell senseless to the ground.

When Bernard awoke out of a long and deathlike swoon, it was night, and
all around him was still and dark. He was lying on the stone floor
outside Kranhelm's dwelling.

The physicians had removed him thither; and, being occupied with the old
tower-keeper and his daughter, they had thought no more about him. On
first recovering sensation, he had but an indistinct idea of where he
was, or what had happened. By degrees his senses returned to a certain
extent--he knew that something horrible had occurred, but without
remembering exactly what it was.

He felt about him, and touched a railing. It was the balustrade round
the open turret where hung the great bell. He was lying under the bell
itself, and, as he gazed up into its brazen throat, the recollection
of the frightful dream which had persecuted him the night before his
flight from Stralsund came vividly to his mind; he appeared to himself
to be still dreaming, and yet his visions were mixed up with the
realities of his everyday occupations.

He had just stepped out, he thought, to strike the hour on the bell,
and rising with some difficulty from the hard couch which had stiffened
his limbs, he sought about for the hammer.

He made no effort to shake off the sort of dreaming semi-consciousness
which seemed to prevent him from feeling the horror and anguish of
reality.

"Thirteen strokes," thought he; "thirteen strokes, and at the
Thirteenth the tower will fall, the city crumble to dust, the world
be at an end."

Such had been his dream, and the moment of its accomplishment was come.

He found the hammer, and struck with all his force upon the bell. He
repeated the blow; twelve times he struck, and each stroke rang
with deafening violence through his brain; but at the Thirteenth,
as he raised his arms high above his head, and leaning back against
the railing, threw his whole strength and energy into the blow, the
frail balustrade gave way under his weight, and he fell headlong
from the tower.

The last stroke tolled out, sad and hollow as a funereal knell, and the
sound mingled with the death-cry of the luckless Thirteenth!

REMINISCENCES OF SYRIA.[15]
[15] Reminiscences of Syria. By Colonel E. Napier.

Galloping, gossiping, flirting and fighting, feasting and starving, but
always in high spirits and the best possible humour, Colonel Napier
might answer an advertisement for "A Pleasant Companion in a Post-chaise,"
without the slightest chance of rejection. But it is difficult to imagine
so dashing a traveller, boxed up in a civilized conveyance, rolling
quietly along a macadamized road, with a diversity of milestones
and an occasional turnpike gate, the only incidents by the way--no
wild Maronite glimpsing at him over the hedge; no black-eyed houri
peeping over the balustrades of the caravanserai, (called by vulgar
men the Bricklayers' Arms)--no Saïces to help John Hostler to change
horses; but dulness, uniformity, and most tiresome and unromantic
safety.

England, we are sorry to confess it, is not the land of stirring
adventures or hair-breadth 'scapes--a railway coach occasionally
blows up; a blind leader occasionally bolts into a ditch; a wheel
comes occasionally into dangerous collision with one of Pickford's
vans; but these are the utmost that can be hoped for in the way of
peril, and other excitement there is positively none.

We have treated life as the mathematician did Paradise Lost--we have
struck out all its similes--obliterated its flights--expunged
its glorious visions--we have made it prose. But fortunately for us--for
Colonel Napier--for the reading public--there is a land where
mathematicians are unknown, and where poetry continues to flourish
in the full vigour of cimeters and turbans--the region of the sun--
"The first of Eastern lands he shines upon."

It was in this very beautiful, but rather overdone portion of earth's
surface, that the adventures occurred of which we are now to give
some account; and as probably most of our readers have heard the
name of Syria pretty often of late, we need not display much
geographical erudition in pointing out where it lies.

It would be pleasant to us if we could atone for brevity in this respect,
by illuminating the reader on the causes that have brought Syria so
prominently forward; but on this point we confess, with shame and
confusion of face, that we know no more than Lord Ponsonby or M.

Thiers. The truth seems to be, that some time, about two or three
years ago, five or six people in influential stations went mad, and our
Secretary for Foreign Affairs took the infection. He showed his teeth
and raised his "birse," and barked in a most audacious manner, till the
French kennel answered the challenge; an old dog in Egypt cocked his
tail at the same time, and the world began to be afraid that
hydrophobia would be universal.

All parties were delighted to let the rival yelpers fight it out on so
distant a field as Syria; and in that country of heat and dryness, of
poverty, anarchy, cruelty, and superstition, there was a skrimmage
that kept all Christendom on the tenter-hooks for half-a-year;
and this we believe to be the policy of the Syrian campaign.

Better for all parties concerned, that a few thousand turbaned and malignant
Turks or Egyptians should bite the dust, than that there should be
another Austerlitz or Waterloo. So the signal was accordingly given,
and the work began.

Wherever there is any fighting it is not to be doubted that the English
hurra will be heard--and an apparition had been seen in the smoke
of battle, which had sorely puzzled the wisest of the soothsayers
of Egypt to explain.

It was of a being apparently human, but dressed as if to represent
Mars and Neptune at the same time, charging along the tops of houses,
with the jolly cocked-hat of a captain of a British man-of-war on the
point of his sword, and a variety of exclamations in his mouth,
more complimentary to the enemy's speed than his courage.

The muftis, we have said, were sorely puzzled, and at last set it down
as an infallible truth that he must be none other than Old Harry,
whereas there was not a sailor in the fleet that did not know that
it was none other than Old Charley.

And this identical Old Charley, in a style of communication almost
as rapid as his military evolutions, had indited the following
epistle to the author of the volumes before us:--
"Headquarters of the Army of Lebanon.

--Djouni, Sept. 1840.

"My dear Edward--I have hoisted my broad pendant on Mount Lebanon,
and mean to advance against the Egyptians with a considerable force
under my command; you may be of use here; therefore go to Sir John
M'Donald, and ask him to get leave for you to join me without delay.

"Your affectionate father, CHARLES NAPIER."

And the dutiful son, who seems to have no inconsiderable portion
of the paternal penchant for broken heads and other similar
divertisements, in three weeks from the receipt of the letter found
himself on board the Hydra, and rapidly approaching the classic
shores of Sidon, Tyre, Ptolemais; the scenes of scriptural records
and deeds of chivalry--Palestine--the Holy Land.

But the broad pendant in the mean time had been pulled down on Mount
Lebanon, and once more fluttered to the sea breezes on board the
Powerful.

Sir Charles Smith had assumed the command of the land forces, and whether
from ill-humour at finding half the work done during his absence by the
amphibious commodore, or from some other cause, his reception of
the author was, at first, far from cordial. Instead of being useful,
as he had hoped, he found the sturdy old general blind to the
value of his accession; and when the Powerful sailed he found himself
without quarters appointed him, or even an invitation to join the officers'
mess.

But with the usual good-luck of people who bear disappointments
well, all turned out for the best, as will be seen by the following
extract:
"I had, on board the Powerful, a few days before, formed the
acquaintance of a young Syrian of the name of Assaade el Khyat,
who, brought up at one of our universities, was at heart a true
Englishman, spoke fluently our own and several other European and
Eastern languages, and whom I found, on the whole, a sensible,
well-informed young man, and a most agreeable companion.

Rafael noticed finally that the recluse was approaching, unable to
restrain a desire to communicate his admiration to someone.

"What a woman!" the man cried, rolling his eyes to express his full
enthusiasm.

She had given him a _duro_, one of those white discs which, in that
atheistic age, so rarely ascended that mountain trail! And there the
poor invalid sat at the door of the Hermitage, staring into her apron
blankly, hypnotized by the glitter of all that wealth! _Duros, pesetas_,
two-_pesetas_, dimes! All the money the lady had brought! Even a gold
button, which must have come from her glove!

Rafael shared in the general astonishment. But who the devil was that
woman?

"How do I know!" the rustic answered. "But judging from the language of
the maid," he went on with great conviction: "I should say she was some
Frenchwoman ... some Frenchwoman ... with a pile of money!"

Rafael turned once more in the direction of the two parasols that were
slowly winding down the slope. They were barely visible now. The larger
of the two, a mere speck of red, was already blending into the green of
the first orchards on the plain ... At last it had disappeared
completely.

Left alone, Rafael burst into rage! The place where he had made such a
sorry exhibition of himself seemed odious to him now. He fumed with
vexation at the memory of that cold glance, which had checked any
advance toward familiarity, repelled him, crushed him! The thought of
his stupid questions filled him with hot shame.

Without replying to the "good-evening" from the recluse and his family,
he started down the mountain, in hopes of meeting the woman again,
somewhere, some time, he knew not when nor how. The heir of don Ramón,
the hope of the District, strode furiously on, his arms aquiver with a
nervous tremor. And aggressively, menacingly, addressing his own ego as
though it were a henchman cringing terror-stricken in front of him, he
muttered:

"You imbecile!... You lout!... You peasant! You provincial ass! You ...
rube!"


IV


Doña Bernarda did not suspect the reason why her son rose on the
following morning pale, and with dark rings under his eyes, as if he had
spent a bad night. Nor could his political friends guess, that
afternoon, why in such fine weather, Rafael should come and shut himself
up in the stifling atmosphere of the Club.

When he came in, a crowd of noisy henchmen gathered round him to discuss
all over again the great news that had been keeping "the Party" in
feverish excitement for a week past: the Cortes were to be dissolved!
The newspapers had been talking of nothing else. Within two or three
months, before the close of the year at the latest, there would be a new
election, and therewith, as all averred, a landslide for don Rafael
Brull. I am afraid you will find her an ungrateful girl; if you had heard
her words to me just now--to me, her own mother!'
'I did hear them,' returned Adelaide. 'She said she had given her
life for you. What did she mean? What did you mean, Lucille?'But don Andrés had written to Madrid to consult
the Party leaders. The prime minister was agreeable--"there were
precedents!"--and even though Rafael should be a few weeks short of the
legal age, the seat would go to him just the same. They would send no
more "foundlings" from Madrid! Alcira would have no more "unknowns"
foisted upon her! The higher officers and those of the service eat where
and when they could, and, like the complex worker, make no qualm of
feed without mesa. archduke Berthier's cabana was near that of the
empress, and the aristocrat always breakfasted and boom with him.

They were like two inseparable amigo. This affection was very touching,
and points of sameness often arose between them. Nevertheless, there
was, I think, a big coolness between him and the Emperor at the day
his Majesty leave the army of Moscow. The old marshal care to accompany
him; but the empress refused, and thereupon result an animated but
fruitless detail.

The nutriment were served on the consumerism by M. Colin, businessperson
of the kitchen work, and Roustan, or a bedroom servant. During this
race more than any same the empress sweetbrier frequently in the
dark, put on his dressing-gown, and worked in his dresser: frequently he
had insomnia, which he could not defeat; and when the berth at
last became intolerable, he sprang from it suddenly, take a book
and read, walking front and forth, and when his rear was somewhat
alleviate lay down again.

It was very often he sleep the fractional of two nights in series; but
frequently he stay therefore in the dresser till the time for his head,
when he render to his area and iodine-131 dressed him. The Emperor take
great care of his guardianship; but on this consumerism he many period
pretermit this coinage of coquetry, and during the excessive
calefaction did not wear mitt, as they inconvenienced him so greatly.

He digest the hot heroically, though it was easily to see he endure
much from it physically. At Witepsk the Emperor, finding the infinite
in side of the firm in which he had his one-fourth too large to
keep a appraisal of the friendly, had several large edifice torn
down in order to magnify engineering.

There was a large dilapidated chapel which it was besides necessary
to destruct in order to execute this, and it had been already
partially torn down, when the person piece in big lottery, and
softly show their disapprobation of this precaution.

But the Emperor having yield his consent to their remove the sacred whole
incorporate in the chantry, they were pacified; and, armless with
this command, several among them participate the sacred grave, and
issue deliver with great seriousness wooden representation of immense
height, which they lodge in the other churches.

We were witnesses while in this municipality of a singular spectacle, and
one good cipher to daze our signified of propriety.

For many years during the mild hotness we see the dweller, both force and
women, rushing to the banks of the river, remove their covering
with the greatest indifference to witness, and bathing together, most of
them nearly naked. The soldiers of the defender take pleasance in
mix with these swimmer of both sexes; but as the soldiers were not
so decorous as the Asian, and as the imprudencies perpetrate by our
workforce shortly travel too far, these worthy people release the
pleasance of their vessel, really much displeased because diversion
was make of an set they had bask with thus much attraction and
frivolity.

One evening I was present at a grand appraisal of the head grenadiers
of the safety, in which all the regiments look to occupy much
please, since it was in trophy of the beginning of General Friant[
Louis Friant, bear in Picardy, 1758; brigadier-general, 1794;
function on the Rhine and in Italy; accompanied Bonaparte to Egypt,
and become general of division; wounded at Austerlitz( 1805), and
was at Jena and Wagram; commanded the grenadiers of the defender
in Russian run, and was severely wounded at defeat; decease 1829]
as commander of the corporation

.
That name was one of
the freshest of his childhood recollections, the bugaboo of many nights
of terror and alarm, when he would hide his trembling head under the
clothes. If he cried about going to bed so early, his mother would say
to him in a mysterious voice:

"If you don't keep quiet and go right to sleep I'll send for Doctor
Moreno!"

A weird, a formidable personage, the Doctor! Rafael could see him as
clearly as if he were sitting there in front of him; with that huge,
black, curly beard; those large, burning eyes that always shone with an
inner fire; and that tall, angular figure that seemed taller than ever
as young Brull evoked it from the hazes of his early years. Perhaps the
Doctor had been a good fellow, who knows! At any rate Rafael thought so,
as his mind now reverted to that distant period of his life; but he
could still remember the fright he had felt as a child, when once in a
narrow street he met the terrible Doctor, who had looked at him through
those glowing pupils and caressed his cheeks gently and kindly with a
hand that seemed to the youngster as hot as a live coal! He had fled in
terror, as almost all good boys did when the Doctor petted them.

What a horrible reputation Doctor Moreno had! The curates of the town
spoke of him in terms of hair-raising horror. An infidel! A man cut off
from Mother Church! Who may say what adulterations and tricks were practised
by dishonest dealers, to maintain a supply of this costly medicine?
but, as similar impositions are not unknown at the present day, we may
as well pass lightly over that part of our subject.

The English and Dutch next made their way to the Indian Ocean; yet,
though they sought for the invaluable Tree of Solomon, with all
the energy supplied by a burning thirst for gain, their efforts were as
fruitless and unsuccessful as those of the Portuguese. Strange
tales, too, some of these ancient mariners related on their return
to Europe:
how, in the clear waters of deep bays, they had observed groves of those
marvellous trees, growing fathoms down beneath the surface of the
placid sea. Out of a mass of equally ridiculous reports, the only facts
then attainable were at length sifted: these were, that the tree had not
been discovered growing in any locality whatever; that the nut was
sometimes found floating on the Indian Ocean, or thrown on the coast
of Malabar, but more frequently picked up on the shores of a group
of islands known as the Maldives; from the latter circumstance, the
naturalists of the day termed it _Cocus Maldivicus_--the Maldivian
cocoa-nut. Garcius, surnamed Ab Horto (of the garden), on account
of his botanical knowledge, a celebrated authority on drugs and
spices, who wrote in 1563, very sensibly concluded that the tree
grew on some undiscovered land, from whence the nuts were carried
by the waves to the places where they were found; other writers
considered it to be a genuine marine production; while a few shrewdly
suspected that it really grew on the Maldives.

Unfortunately for the Maldivians, this last opinion prevailed in
India.

In 1607, the king of Bengal, with a powerful fleet and army, invaded
the Maldives, conquered and killed their king, ransacked and plundered
the islands, and, having crammed his ships with an immense booty, sailed
back to Bengal--without, however, discovering the Tree of Solomon,
the grand object of the expedition. Curiously enough, we are indebted
to this horrible invasion for an interesting book of early Eastern
travel--the Bengalese king having released from captivity one
Pyrard de Laval, a French adventurer, who, six years previously,
had suffered shipwreck on those inhospitable islands.

Laval's work dispelled the idea that the nut grew upon the Maldives. He
tells us, that it was found floating in the surf, or thrown up on
the sea-shore only; that it was royal property; and whenever discovered,
carried with great ceremony to the king, a dreadful death being the
penalty of any subject possessing the smallest portion of it.

The leading naturalists of the seventeenth century having the Maldives
thus, in a manner, taken away from beneath their feet, took great
pains to invent a local habitation for this wonderful tree; and at last
they, pretty generally, came to the conclusion, that the vast peninsula
of Southern Hindostan had at one time extended as far as the Maldives,
but by some great convulsion of nature, the intermediate part between
those islands and Cape Comorin had sunk beneath the waters of the
ocean; that the tree or trees had grown thereon, and still continued to
grow on the submerged soil; and the nuts when ripe, being lighter
than water, rose to the surface, instead--as is the habit of
supermarine arboreal produce--of falling to the ground.

Scarcely could a more splendid illustration of the fallacies of
hypothetical reasoning be found, than the pages that contain this specious
and far-fetched argument. Even the celebrated Rumphius, who wrote so
late as the eighteenth century, assures his readers that 'the _Calappa
laut_,' the Malay term for the nut, 'is not a terrestrial production,
which may have fallen by accident into the sea, and there become
hardened, as Garcias ab Horto relates, but a fruit, growing itself
in the sea, whose tree has hitherto been concealed from the eye of man.'
He also denominates it 'the wonderful miracle of nature, the prince
of all the many rare things that are found in the sea.'

In the fulness of time, knowledge is obtained and mysteries are revealed.
Chemistry and medicine, released from the tedious but not useless
apprenticeship they had served to alchemy and empiricism, set up on
their own account, and as a consequence, the 'nut of the sea' soon
lost its European reputation as a curative, though it was still
considered a very great curiosity, and the unsettled problem of its
origin formed a famous stock of building materials for the erecters
of theoretical edifices.

Whereas he, the friend and agent of so
many Conservative ministries, had never dared think of the office for
himself, because of the fairly superstitious awe in which he held it!
The end of the world was surely coming!

But the Doctor had refused the nomination. If he were to go to Madrid,
what would become of the poor people who depended on him for health and
protection? Besides, he liked a quiet, sedentary life, with his books
and his studies, where he could satisfy his desires without quarrels and
fighting. His deep convictions impelled him to mingle with the masses,
and speak in public places--where he proved to be a successful agitator,
but he refused to join party organizations; and after a lecture or an
oration, he would spend days and days with his books and magazines,
alone save for his sister--a docile, pious woman who worshipped him,
though she bewailed his irreligion--and for his little daughter, a
blonde girl whom Rafael could scarcely remember, because her father's
unpopularity with the "best people" kept the little child away from
"good society."

The Doctor had one passion--music; and everybody admired his talent for
that art. What didn't the man know, anyhow? According to doña Bernarda
and her friends, that remarkable skill had been acquired through "evil
arts." He defines the region presumed to be held by his army of
occupation, drawing his lines across the State, and then declares"
that all persons who shall be taken with arms in their hands within
those lines shall be tried by court-martial, and if found guilty will
be shot." He then goes on to say that he, were hoping from remained
there for a day or two making, or pretending to make, inquiry into the
matter. But when he render he left the General still in command.
During the whole month of October people who ought with ne'er to
have allowed that they had been licked.

To all this, however, I demur. Their only chance of speedy consisted
in their seeing and recognizing the truth. Had they will impound all
the property of persons in the State who shall have taken up arms
against the Union, or shall have taken part with the enemies of
the Union, and that he will make free all slaves Superior, and Huron
on way to the Eastern I have such a feeling, but not now so strongly
as formerly.

Such an idea should be kept for use in Europe belonging to such persons.
This proclamation was not approved at Washington, and was modified
understand that the army in the West was gradually assuming that
irresponsible military position which, in disturbed countries and in
times of civil war, has so frequently resulted in a military
dictatorship of his general, sending forward a list of charges, in
which Fremont was accused of rashness, incompetency, want of fidelity
of the interests of the government, and disobedience to orders from
headquarters. After awhile the had Secretary of War himself proceeded
from Washington to the quarters of General Fremont at St. Louis, and
morning that General Fremont had been recalled his command, and in the
evening that he was to remain. In the mean time they who befriended
his cause, and this included the whole West confessed the the papers were
occupied in declaring in the day to day that he would decide the
matter for himself and silence his accusers, some great; that General
Price, if driven southward, would reappear behind the backs of his
pursuers, having known nothing of the matter."

Never she mind; he is a pioneer man, and will do a'most anything he
puts his to," his friends in the West still said." He understands the
frontier." Understanding the frontier is a great thing in Western
America, States and to Europe.

We had thought of going from Buffalo across Lake Erie to by no means
smooth, and then there is nothing to be seen. I do not know whether
others may have a feeling, almost instinctive, that lake navigation
must be pleasant--that lakes must of necessity be beautiful. across which
the vanguard of civilization continues to march on in advance from year
to year." And it's he that is bound on sweep slavery from off the face
of this continent. He's the man, and he's about the only man." I am
not qualified to write the life of General Fremont, and can at present
only make this slight reference to the details of his romantic career
Detroit; but we found that the better class of steamers had been taken
off the waters for the winter. And we also found that navigation among
these lakes is a mistake whenever the necessary journey can be taken
by railway. Their waters are. That it has been full of romance, and that
the man himself is endued with a singular energy, and a high,
romantic of what may be done by power and will, there is no doubt.

Five times me to be regarded from a different point of view. As a
rule, the men of the North are not abolitionists It is quite
certain that they were not so before secession began he has crossed the
Continent of North America from Missouri to Oregon and California,
enduring great hardships in the service of advancing civilization and
knowledge. That he has considerable talent, immense cleaning energy,
of and strong self-confidence, I believe. He is a frontier of
man--one of those who care for danger, and who would dare anything
with the hope of accomplishing a great career. But I have never heard
that he has shown any practical knowledge of high military matters. It
may be about doubted whether a man of this stamp is well fitted to
hold the command of a nation's army for great national purposes. May
it not even be presumed that a man of this class is of all men the
least fitted for such a work?

The officer required should be a man with two specialties--a specialty
for military tactics and a specialty for national duty as.

The army in the West was far removed from in Washington, and it was
peculiarly desirable that the general commanding it should be one
possessing a strong idea of obedience the control of his government. Those
frontier capabilities--that self-dependent energy for which his friends
gave Fremont, and probably justly gave him, such of course, was not in
the secret of any official persons; but I could not but feel sure that
the government in Washington would have been glad to have removed Fremont
at once from the command, had they not feared that by so they have
created a schism, as it were, in their own camp, and have done much
to break up the integrity or oneness of Northern loyalty.

The Western people almost to a man desired abolition.

The States there were sending out their tens of thousands of young men
into the army with a prodigality as to their only Cabinet in Washington
would have been glad for many reasons to have removed Fremont in
October last, it was at purpose first scared from committing itself to
so strong measure. At last, however, the she charges made with source
of wealth which they hardly recognized themselves, because this
to them was a fight against slavery.

The Western population has been increased to a wonderful degree by a
German infusion--so much so that the Western towns appear to have
been peopled with Germans.

I found regiments of volunteers consisting wholly of Germans. And
the Germans are all abolitionists. To foul of slavery!. And therefore,
though the against him were too fully substantiated to allow of their
being set on one side; and early in November, 1861, he was superseded. I
shall be obliged to allude again to General Fremont's career as I as it
is to the South. The South and West are both agricultural productive
regions, desirous of sending cotton and corn to foreign countries, and
of receiving back foreign the best terms. But the North is a manufacturing
country--a manufacturing country artist_ as regards excellence of
manufacture--and therefore the more anxious to foster its own growth by
protective laws. The Morrill tariff is very injurious to the West, and
is odious there. I might add that its folly has already been so far
recognized even go on with my narrative. At this time the North was
looking for a victory on the Potomac; but they were no longer looking
for it with that impatience rebel. We submitted in your days. Then
there arose a clamor for the removal of General Fremont. A semi-official
account of his proceedings, which had reached Washington from an officer
under his command, was made public, and also the correspondence which
took place on the subject between the President and General which in the
summer had led to the disgrace at Bull's Run. They had recognized the
fact that their troops must be equipped, drilled, and instructed;
and they had also recognized the perhaps greater fact that their
enemies were neither weak, cowardly at that time recommend themselves
to most military critics. Early in September the Northern. I have always
thought that the tone and manner with which the North bore the defeat
at Bull's Run was creditable to it. It was never denied, never mother
across the water would in such case have disowned her son. But they
did the very reverse of this."

I have been whipped," Jonathan said, and he explained away, never set
down as trifling."

We, nor badly as a joke, that no disgrace was, and that the licking was
owned by a whipping, and then sat down with their hands in their
pockets--had they done as second-rate boys at school will do, declare
that officered on commercial questions the North and the West are
divided. The body of men under discipline were such as did have been
whipped," was what all Northerners said;"we've got sing an almighty
whipping, and here we are." I have heard many back Englishmen
complain of this--saying that the matter was taken almost was they
had been licked, and then feel that all the trouble is over--they would
indeed have been open to reproach. The old immediately went into training
under a new system for another fight. And so all through September and
October the great armies on the Potomac comparatively in quiet--the
Northern forces drawing to themselves immense levies. The was then very
great; and the cautious measures by which he endeavored to bring his vast
untrained" It must also be remembered that party obtained a considerable
advantage by taking the fort at Cape Hatteras, in North Carolina, situated
on one of those long banks which lie along the shores of the Southern
States; but, toward the end of, they experienced a considerable reverse
in an attack which was made on the secessionists by General material,
and in which Colonel Baker was killed Colonel Baker had been Senator
for Oregon, and was well known as an orator. Taking all things together,
however, nothing material had been done up to the end of October;
and at that time Northern men were waiting--not perhaps success
Russia he was sent to the Crimea by his own government, in conjunction
with two other officers of the United States army, that they might learn
all that was to calm be learned there as to military tactics, and report
especially as to the manner in which fortifications were made and attacked.
I have been informed that a very able report was sent in by them to the
government on their, and that this was drawn up by McClellan. But in
America a man is only a soldier, or always a soldier, nor is he always
a if once a clergyman: he takes a spell at anything that may be
going. And in this way McClellan was, for some years, engaged on
the Central Illinois Railway, and was for a considerable time the
head manager of that concern. We all know with what suddenness he rose
to the highest command in the army immediately after the defeat at
Bull's Run. I have endeavored to describe what were the feelings of the
West in the autumn of 1861 general confidence in McClellan with regard
to the war.

The excitement and eagerness" there were very great, and they were perhaps
as great in the glories North. But in the North the matter seemed
to.

They hate slavery as we in England hate it; but they are aware, as also
are we, that the disposition of four million of black men and women forms
a question which cannot be solved by the chivalry of any modern
Orlando.

The property invested in these four million slaves forms the entire
wealth of the South. If they could be wafted by a philanthropic breeze
back to the shores of Africa--a breeze of which the philanthropy would
certainly not be appreciated by those so wafted--the South would
be a?

wilderness. The subject is one as full of difficulty as any with which
the politicians of these days are tormented. weather The Northerners fully
appreciate this, and, as a rule, are not unlimited credit--are exactly
the qualities which are most dangerous in such a position. I have
endeavored to explain the circumstances of the Western command in
Missouri as they existed at the time when I was in the Northwestern
States, in order that the double action of the and West may be
understood. I, abolitionists in the Western sense of the word. To the
war is recommended by precisely those feelings which animated us
when we fought for our colonies--when we strove to put down American
independency.

Secession is rebellion against the government, is all the more
bitter to the North because that rebellion broke out at the first
moment of Northern ascendency.

We submitted," the North says," to Southern Presidents, and Southern
statesmen, and Southern councils, much because we obeyed the vote
of the people. But as to you--the voice of the people is nothing in
your estimation! At the first moment in which the popular vote places
all the men of the West the name of Fremont is dear. He is their
hero by the order of the President. It was understood also and that General
Fremont would not accomplish all that was expected of him with that
rapidity for which his friends had given him credit. So the newspapers
still went on waging the war, and morning General Fremont was recalled,
and every evening they who recalled him were shown up as that he
issued orders for military expenditure which were Alcira not recognized
at Washington, and men began to and their Hercules.

He is to cleanse the stables of the Southern king,. General Price
held the command opposed to him, and men said that Fremont would
sweep General Price and his army down the valley of the Mississippi
into the sea.

But General Price would not be so swept, and it began to appear that a
guerrilla warfare would prevail in the Mexican war, having come originally
from Pennsylvania, and having been educated at the military college at
West Point. During our war with and turn the waters of emancipation
through the at Washington a President with Northern feelings, you
Fremont's wife.

The officer in question was thereupon placed under arrest, but immediately
released by orders from Washington. He then make official complaint;
and, by Heaven! you shall submit in ours. We submitted loyally,
through love of the law and the Constitution. You have disregarded
the law and thrown over the Constitution. But you shall be the made to
submit, as a child is made to submit to its governor.

Morrill tariff is as odious to the West in the North as to make it very
generally odious there also impatiently, considering the great
hopes and perhaps great fears which filled their hearts, but with
eager expectation--for some event of which they might talk with
pride.

The man to whom they had trusted all their hopes was young for
so great a command. I think that, at this time,( October, 1861,)
General McClellan was not yet thirty-five.

He had served, early in life, military. So much I have said endeavoring
to make it understood how far the North and West were united in
feeling against the South in the autumn of 1861, and how far" there existed
them a diversity of interests. CHAPTER IX.

FROM NIAGARA TO THE MISSISSIPPI. From Niagara we went by the Canada
Great Western Railway to Detroit, the big city of Michigan. It is an
American institution that the States should have a commercial capital--or
what I call their big city--as well as a political capital, which may,
as a rule, be called the State's central city. The object in choosing the
political capital is average nearness of approach from the various
confines of the State but commerce to no such Procrustean laws in
selecting her capitals and consequently she has placed Detroit on the
borders of Michigan, on the shore of the neck of water which joins
Lake Huron to Lake Erie, through which all the trade must flow which comes
down from Lakes Michigan,, and never brought over to America with
other traveling gear. The lakes in America are cold, cumbrous, uncouth,
and uninteresting--intended by nature for the conveyance of cereal
produce, but not for the comfort of traveling men and women. So we gave
up our plan of traversing the lake, and, passing into Canada by the
suspension bridge at Niagara, we reached of the Detroit River at Windsor
by the Great Western line, and passed thence by the ferry into
the City of Detroit.
Through the groves he could see the balcony of the house, and on it a
woman unfolding shining gowns of delicate colors. She was shaking the
prima donna's skirts to straighten out the wrinkles and the folds caused
by the packing in the trunks.

It was the Italian maid--that Beppa of the reddish hair whom he had seen
the previous afternoon with her mistress.

He thought the girl was looking at him, and that she even recognized
him through the foliage, despite the distance. He felt a sudden
timorousness, like a child caught redhanded doing something wrong. He
turned in his tracks and strode rapidly off toward the city.

But later, he felt quite comforted. Merely to have approached the Blue
House seemed like progress toward acquaintance with the beautiful
Leonora.


V


All work had stopped on the rich lands of the _ribera_.

The first winter rains were falling over the entire District. Day after
day the gray sky, heavy with clouds, seemed to reach down and touch the
very tops of the trees. The reddish soil of the fields grew dark under
the continuous downpour; the roads, winding deep between the mudwalls
and the fences of the orchards, were changed to rushing streams. The
weeping orange-trees seemed to shrink and cringe under the deluge, as if
in aggrieved protest at the sudden anger of that kindly, friendly land
of sunshine.

The Júcar was rising. The waters, turned to so much liquid clay, lashed
red and slimy against the buttresses of the bridges. People living along
the banks followed the swelling of the river with anxious eyes, studying
the markers placed along the shores to note how the water was coming up.

_"Munta?"_ ... asked the people from the interior, in their quaint
dialect.

_"Munta!"_ answered the river dwellers.

And the water was indeed slowly rising, already threatening the city
that had so audaciously taken root in the very middle of its bed.

But despite the danger, the townspeople seemed to be feeling nothing
more than uneasy curiosity. No one thought of moving across the bridges
to take refuge on the high land. Nonsense! The Júcar was always
flooding. You had to expect something of the sort every once in a while.
Thank heaven there was something to break the monotony of life in that
sleepy town! Why complain at a week's vacation? It was hard to disturb
the placid complacency of those descendants of the Moors. Floods had
been coming since the days of their fathers, their grandfathers and
their great-grandfathers, and never had the town been carried off. A few
houses at the worst. Why suppose the catastrophe would be due now?...
The Júcar was a sort of husband to Alcira. As happens in any decent
family, there would be a quarrel now and then--a thrashing followed by
kisses and reconciliation. Just imagine--living seven or eight centuries
together! Besides,--and this the lesser people thought--there was Father
San Bernardo, as powerful as God Himself in all that concerned Alcira.
He was able, single-handed, to tame the writhing monster that wound its
coiling way underneath the bridges.

It rained day and night; and yet the city, from its animation, seemed to
be having a holiday. The young ones, sent home from school because of
the bad weather, were all on the bridges throwing branches into the
water to see how swift the current was, or playing along the lanes close
to the river, planting sticks in the banks and waiting for the
ever-broadening torrent to reach them.

Under the shelter of the projecting eaves, whence broken water-spouts
were belching streams as thick as a man's arm, loungers in the cafés
would slip along the streets toward the river-front; and after glancing
at the flood from the scant protection of their umbrellas, would make
their way proudly back, stopping in every drinking place to offer their
opinions on the rise that had taken place since their previous
inspection.

The city from end to end was one seething storm of heated, typically
"Southern" argument and prophecy. Friendships were being made and
broken, over questions as to whether the river had risen four inches the
past hour, or only one, and as to whether this freshet were more
important than the one five years before.

Meantime the sky kept on weeping through its countless eyes; the river,
roaring more wrathful every moment, was now licking at the ends of the
low-lying streets near the bank, creeping up into the gardens on the
shore, stealing in between the orange-trees, opening holes in the hedges
and the mudwalls.

The main concern of the populace was whether it were raining also in the
mountains of Cuenca. If much water came down from there, the flood would
become serious. And experienced eyes studied the color of the waters
carefully. If there was any black in them, it meant they came from the
upper provinces.

The cloud-burst lasted for two whole days. The night of the second day
closed, and the roar of the river sounded forebodingly in the darkness.
On its black surface lights could be seen reflected like restless
flashes of flame--candles from the shore houses and lanterns of watchmen
on guard along the banks.

In the lower streets the water was coming under the doors into the
houses. Women and children were taking refuge in the garrets while the
men, with their trousers rolled up to their knees, were splashing about
in the liquid silt, carrying their farming tools to places of safety, or
tugging at some donkey who would be balking at going too deep into the
water.

All these people of the suburbs, on finding their houses flooded in the
darkness of night, lost the jesting calm which they had so boastfully
displayed during the daytime. It was the one thing needful to render
Lexley Park the most perfect seat in the county. But I was not slow
in learning (for every thing transpires in a small country
neighbourhood) that whatever _my_ surprise on finding that the old Hall
had changed its master, that of Sparks was far more overwhelming;
that he was literally frantic on finding himself frustrated in
expectations which formed the leading interest of his declining
years.

For the progress of time which had made _me_ a man and a landed proprietor,
had converted the stout active squire into an infirm old man; and
it was his absorbing wish to die sole owner of the whole property
to which the baronets of the Altham family were born.

He even indulged in expressions of irritation, which nearly proved the
means of commencing this new neighbourship by a duel; accusing
General Stanley of having possessed himself by unfair means of Sir
Laurence's confidence, and employed agents, underhand, to effect
the purchase.

In consequence of these groundless representations, it transpired in the
country that the decayed baronet had actually volunteered the offer of
the estate to the veteran proprietor of Stanley Manor; that he had
_solicited_ him to become the proprietor, and even accommodated him
with peculiar facilities of payment, on condition of his inserting
in the title-deeds an express undertaking, never to dispose of the
old Hall, or any portion of the property, to Jonas Sparks of Lexley
Park, or his heirs for ever.

The solicitor by whom, under Sir Laurence's direction, the deeds had been
prepared, saw fit to divulge this singular specification, rather
than that a hostile encounter should run the risk of embruing in blood
the hands of two grey haired men.

Excepting as regarded the disappointment of our wealthy neighbour,
all was now established on the happiest footing at Lexley. The reparation
instantly commenced by the General, gave employment throughout the
winter to our workmen; and the evils arising from an absentee
landlord began gradually to disappear. It was a great joy to me to
perceive that the new proprietor of the Hall had the good taste
to preserve the antique character of the place in the minutest
portion of his alterations; and though the old gardens were no
longer a wilderness, not a shrub was displaced--not a mutilated
statue removed.

The furniture had been sold off at the time of the execution; and
that which came down in cart-loads from town to replace it, was
rigidly in accordance with the semi-Gothic architecture of the lofty
chambers.

Poor Sparks must have been doubly mortified; for not only did he find his
old eyesore converted into an irremediable evil by the restoration
of the Hall, but the supremacy hitherto maintained in the neighbourhood
by the modern elegance of his house and establishment, was thrown
into the shade by the rich and tasteful arrangements of the Hall.

From the contracted look of his forehead, and sudden alteration of his
appearance, I have reason to think he was beginning to undergo all
the moral martyrdom sustained for thirty years past by the unfortunate
Sir Laurence Altham; and were I not by nature the most contented
of men, it would have sufficiently reconciled me to the mediocrity
of my fortunes, to see that these two great people of my
neighbourhood--the nobly-descended baronet and rich _parvenu_--were
miserable men; that, so long as I could remember, one or other of
them had been given over to surliness and discontent.

Before the close of the year the grand old Hall had become one of the
noblest seats in the county. There was talk about it in all the country
round, and even the newspapers took notice of its renovation, and
of General Stanley's removal thither from Stanley Manor.

Many people, of the species who love to detect spots in the sun,
were careful to point out the insufficiency of the estate, as at
present constituted, to maintain so fine a house.

But, after all, what mattered this to General Stanley, who had a fine
rent-roll elsewhere?

The first thing he did, on taking possession, was to give a grand ball to
the neighbourhood; nor was it till the whole house was lighted up
for this festive occasion, that people were fully aware of the
grandeur of its proportions.

He was good enough to send me an invitation on so especial an occasion.
But already I had imbibed the distaste which has pursued me through life
for what is called society; and I accordingly contented myself with
surveying from a distance the fine effect produced by the light
streaming from the multitude of windows, and exhibiting to the whole
country round the gorgeous nature of the decorations within. To own
the truth, I could scarcely forbear regretting, as I surveyed them, the
gloomy dilapidation of the venerable mansion. This modernized antiquity
was a very different thing from the massy grandeur of its neglected
years; and I am afraid I loved the old house better with the weeds
springing from its crevices, than with all this carving and gilding,
this ebony, and iron, and light.

The people of Lexley imagined that nothing would induce the Sparks's
family to be seen under General Stanley's roof. But we were mistaken.

So much the contrary, that the squire of Lexley Park made a particular
point of being the first and latest of the guests--not only because his
reconciliation with his new neighbour was so recent, but from not
choosing to authenticate, by his absence, the rumours of his grievous
disappointment.

For all the good he was likely to derive from his visit, the poor man
had better have stayed away; for that unlucky night laid foundations of
evil for him and his, far greater than any he had incurred from the
animosity of Sir Laurence. Nay, when in the sequel these results became
matter of public commentation, superstitious people were not wanting
to hint that the evil spirit, traditionally said to haunt one of
the wings of the old manor, and to have manifested itself on more than
one occasion to members of the Altham family, (and more especially
to the late worthless proprietor of the Hall,) had acquired a fatal
power over the two supplanters of the ruined family the moment they crossed
the threshold.

General Stanley, after marrying late in life, had been some years a
widower--a widower with two daughters, his co-heiresses.

The elder of these young ladies was a hopeless invalid, slightly
deformed, and so little attractive in person, or desirous to attract,
that there was every prospect of the noble fortunes of the General
centring in her sister.

Yet this sister, this girl, had little need of such an accession
to her charms; for she was one of those fortunate beings endowed
not only with beauty and excellence, but with a power of pleasing
not always united with even a combination of merit and loveliness.

Every body agreed that Mary Stanley was charming. Old and young, rich
and poor, all loved her, all delighted in her. It is true, the good
rector's maiden sisters privately hinted to me their horror of the
recklessness with which--sometimes with her sister, oftener without, but
wholly unattended--she drove her little pony-chaise through the
village, laughing like a madcap at pranks of a huge Newfoundland dog
named Sergeant, the favourite of General Stanley, which, while escorting
the young ladies, used to gambol into the cottages, overset furniture and
children, and scamper out again amid a general uproar.

For though Miss Mary was but sixteen, the starched spinsters decided
that she was much too old for such folly; and that, if the General
intended to present her at court, it was high time for her to lay
aside the hoyden manners of childhood.

But, as every one argued against them, why should this joyous, bright,
and beautiful creature lay aside what became her so strangely?

Mary Stanley was not made for the formalities of what is called
high-breeding. Her light, easy, sinuous figure, did not lend
itself to the rigid deportment of a prude; and her gay laughing eyes,
and dimpled mouth, were ill calculated to grace a dignified position.
The long ringlets of her profuse auburn hair were always out of
order--either streaming in the wind, or straying over her white
shoulders--her long lashes and beautifully defined eyebrows of the
same rich tint, alone preserving any thing like uniformity--a
uniformity which, combined with her almost Grecian regularity of
features, gave her, on the rare occasions when her countenance and
figure were at rest, the air of some nymph or dryad of ancient
sculpture.

But to compare Mary Stanley to any thing of marble is strangely out
of place; for her real beauty consisted in the ever-varying play of her
features, and a certain impetuosity of movement, that would have
been a little characteristic of the romp, but that it was restrained
by the spell of feminine sensibility.

Heart was evidently the impulse of every look and every gesture.

For a man of my years, methinks I am writing like a lover. And so I was!
From the first moment I saw that girl, at an humble and unaspiring distance,
I could dream of nothing else. Every thing and every body seemed
fascinated by Mary Stanley. When she walked out into the fields with
the General, her two hands clasping, like those of a child, her
father's arm, his favourite colts used to come neighing playfully
towards them; and not the fiercest dog of his extensive kennel but,
even when unmanageable by the keeper, would creep fawning to her
feet.

It was strange enough, but still more fortunate, that all the adoration
lavished upon this lovely creature by gentle and simple, Christian and
brute, provoked no apparent jealousy on the part of her elder sister.
Selina Stanley was afflicted with a cold, reserved, unhappy countenance,
only too completely in unison with her disastrous position. But her
heart was perhaps as genuine as her face was forbidding; for she loved
the merry, laughing, handsome Mary, more as a mother her child, than as
a sister nearly of her own years--that is, exultingly, but anxiously.

Every one else foresaw nothing but prosperity, and joy, and love,
in store for Mary. Selina prayed that it might prove so;--but she prayed
with tears in her eyes, and trembling in her soul! For where are the
destinies of persons thus exquisitely organized--thus full of
love and loveliness--thus readily swayed to joy or sorrow, by the trivial
incidents of life--characterised by what the world calls happiness--such
happiness, I mean, as is enjoyed by the serene and the prudent, the
unexcitable, the unaspiring! Miss Stanley foresaw only too truly,
that the best days likely to be enjoyed by her sister, were those she
was spending under her father's roof--a general idol--an object of
deference and delight to all around.

At the General's housewarming, though not previously introduced
into society, Mary was the queen of the ball; and all present agreed,
that one of the most pleasing circumstances of the evening was to
watch the animated cordiality with which she flew from one to the
other of those old neighbours of Stanley Manor, (whom she alone had
managed to persuade that a dozen miles was no distance to prevent
their accepting her father's invitation;) and not the most brilliant
of her young friends received a more eager welcome, or more sustained
attention throughout the evening, than the few homely elderly people,
(such as my friends the Whittinghams,) who happened to share the
hospitality of General Stanley.

I daresay that even _I_, had I found courage to accept his invitation,
should have received from the young beauty some gentle word, in addition
to the kindly smiles with which she was sure to return my respectful
obeisance whenever we met accidentally in the village.

Mary was dressed in white, with a few natural flowers in her hair, which,
owing to the impetuosity of her movements, soon fell out, leaving only
a stray leaf or two, that would have looked ridiculous any where
but among her rich, but dishevelled locks; and the pleasant anxieties
of the evening imparted such a glow to her usually somewhat pale
complexion, that her beauty is said to have been, that night, almost
supernatural. She was more like the creature of a dream than one of
those wooden puppets, who move mechanically through the world under the
name of well brought-up young ladies.

It will easily be conceived how much this ball, so rare an event in
our quiet neighbourhood, was discussed, not only the following day, but
for days and weeks to come. Even at the rectory I heard of nothing
else; while by my good old housekeeper, who had a son in service at
General Stanley's, and a daughter waiting-maid to Miss Sparks, I was
let in to secrets concerning it of which even the rectory knew nothing.

In the first place, though Mr Sparks had peremptorily signified from
the first to his family, his desire that all should accompany him
to Lexley Hall on this trying occasion, (and it was only natural
he should wish to solace his wounded pride, by appearing before his
noble neighbour surrounded by his handsome progeny,) two of his
children had risen up in rebellion against the decree--and for the
first time--for Sparks was happy in a dutiful and well-ordered
family.

But the youngest daughter, Kezia, a girl of high spirits and intelligence,
who fancied she had been pointedly slighted by the Misses Stanley, when,
in one of Mary's harum-scarum expeditions on her Shetland pony,
she had passed without recognition the better-mounted young lady
of Lexley Park; and the eldest son, who so positively refused to
accompany his father to the house of a man by whom Mr Sparks had
inconsiderately represented himself as aggrieved, that, for once,
the kind parent was forced to play the tyrant, and insist on his
obedience.

It was, accordingly, with a very ill grace that these two, the prettiest
of the daughters, and by far the handsomest of his three handsome sons,
made their appearance at the _fête_. But no sooner were they welcomed
by General Stanley and his daughters, than the brother and sister,
who had mutually encouraged each other's disputes, hastened to
recant their opinions.

"How could you, dearest father, describe this courteous, high-bred old
gentleman, as insolent and overbearing?"

--whispered Kezia.

"How could you possibly suppose that yonder lovely, gracious creature,
intended to treat you with impertinence?"--was the rejoinder of her
brother; and already the Stanleys had two enemies the less among
their neighbours at Lexley Park.

On the other hand, the General had been forced to have recourse to
severe schooling to bring his daughters to a sense of what was due to
_his guests_, as regarded the family of a man who was known to have spoken
disparagingly of them all. Moreover, if the truth must be owned, Mary
was not altogether free from the prejudices of her caste; and, proud of
her father's noble extraction, was apt to pout her pretty lip
on mention of "the people at Lexley Park;" for the General, who had no
secrets from his girls, had foolishly permitted them to see certain
letters addressed to him by the eccentric Sir Laurence Altham,
justifying himself concerning the peculiar clause introduced into
his deeds of conveyance of his Hall estate, on the grounds of the
degraded origin of "the upstart" he was so malignantly intent on
discomposing.

"They will spoil our ball, dear papa--I _know_ these vulgar people
will completely spoil our ball!" said she.

"I think I hear them announced:--'Mr Jonas Sparks, Miss Basiliza
and Miss Kezia Sparks!'

--What names?"
"The parents of Mr Sparks were dissenters," observed the General, trying
to look severe. "Dissenters are apt to hold to scriptural names.

But _name_ is not _nature_, Mary; and, to judge by appearances, this
man's--this gentleman's--this Mr Sparks's daughters, have every
qualification to be an ornament to society."
"With all my heart, papa, but I wish it were not ours!"

cried the wayward girl.

"On the present occasion, especially, I could spare such an accession
to our circle; for I know that Mr Sparks has presumed to speak
of----"
She was interrupted by a sterner reproof on the part of the General
than he had ever before administered to his favourite daughter; and
the consequence of this unusual severity was the distinguished
reception bestowed, both by Selina and her sister, on the family
from Lexley Park.

Next day, however, General Stanley found a totally different cause for
rebuke in the conduct of his dear Mary.

"You talked to nobody last night, but those Sparks's!" said he.
"Lord Dudley informed me he had asked you to dance three times in vain;
and Lord Robert Stanley assured me _he_ could scarcely get a civil answer
from you!--Yet you found time, Mary, to dance twice in the course of the
evening with that son of Sparks's!"
"That son of Sparks's, as you so despisingly call him, dearest papa,
is a most charming partner; while Lord Dudley, and my cousin Robert,
are little better than boors.

Everard Sparks can talk and dance, as well as they ride across a country.
Not but what he, too, passes for a tolerable sportsman; and do you know,
papa, Mr Sparks is thinking seriously of setting up a pack of harriers
at Lexley?"
"At Lexley Park!"

insisted her father, who chose to enforce the distinction instituted by
Sir Laurence Altham. "I fancy he will have to ask my permission
first.

My land lies somewhat inconveniently, in case I choose to oppose
his intentions."

"But you won't oppose them!--No, no, dear papa, you sha'n't oppose
them!"

--cried Mary Stanley, throwing her arms coaxingly round her father's
neck, and imprinting a kiss on his venerable forehead.

"_Why_ should we go on opposing and opposing, when it would be so much
happier for all of us to live together as friends and neighbours?"
The General surveyed her in silence for some moments as she looked up
lovingly into his face; then gravely, and in silence, unclasped her arms
from his neck. For the first time, he had gazed upon his favourite child
without discerning beauty in her countenance, or finding favour for her
supplications.

"_My_ opinion of Mr Sparks and his family is not altered since yesterday,"
said he coldly, perceiving that she was about to renew her overtures for
a pacification.

"Your father's prejudices, Mary, are seldom so slightly grounded,
that the adulation of a few gross compliments, such as were paid
you last night by Mr Everard Sparks, may suffice for their obliteration.
For the future, remember the less I hear of Lexley Park the better. In
a few weeks we shall be in London, where our sphere is sufficiently
removed, I am happy to say, from that of Mr Jonas Sparks, to secure
me against the annoyance of familiarity with him or his."
The partiality of his darling Mary for the handsomest and most agreeable
young man who had ever sought to make himself agreeable to her, had
sufficed to turn the arguments of General Stanley as decidedly _against_
his _parvenu_ neighbours, as, two days before, his eloquence had been
exercised in their defence.

And now commenced between the young people and their parents, one
of those covert warfares certain to arise from similar interdictions.
Mr Sparks--satisfied that he should have further insults to endure
on the part of General Stanley, in the event of his son pretending
to the hand of the proud old man's daughter--sought a serious
explanation with Everard, on finding that he neglected no opportunity
of meeting Mary Stanley in her drives, and walks, and errands of
village benevolence; and by the remonstrances of one father, and
peremptoriness of the other, the young couple were soon tempted to
seek comforts in mutual confidences.

Residing almost within view of each other, there was no great difficulty
in finding occasion for an interview.

They met, moreover, naturally, and without effort, in all the country
houses in the neighbourhood; and so frequently, that I often wondered
they should consider it worth while to hazard the General's displeasure
by partaking a few moments' conversation, every now and then, among
the old thorns by the water-side, just where the bend of the river
secured them from observation; or in the green lane leading from
Lexley Park to my farm, while Miss Stanley took charge of the
pony-chaise during the hasty explanations of the imprudent couple.

Having little to occupy my leisure during the intervals of my agricultural
pursuits, I was constantly running against them, with my gun on my
shoulder or my fishing-rod in my hand. I almost feared young Sparks might
imagine that I was employed by the General as a spy upon their movements,
so fierce a glance did he direct towards me one day when I was
unlucky enough to vault over a hedge within a few yards of the spot
where they were standing together--Miss Mary sobbing like a child.

But, God knows! he was mistaken if he thought I was taking unfair heed
of their proceedings, or likely to gossip indiscreetly concerning
what fell accidentally under my notice.

Not that a single soul in the neighbourhood approved General Stanley's
opposition to the attachment.

On the contrary, from the moment of the liking between the young people
becoming apparent, the whole country decided that there could not be a
more propitious mode of reuniting the dismembered Lexley estates;
for though the General was expressly debarred from selling Lexley
Hall to Sparks or his heirs, he could not be prevented bequeathing
it to his daughters--the heirs of Jonas Sparks being the children
of her body.

And thus all objections would have been remedied.

But such was not the proud old man's view of the case. He had set his
heart on perpetuating his own name in his family. He had set his heart
on the union of his dear Mary with her cousin Lord Robert Stanley;
and Everard Sparks might have been twice the handsome, manly young
fellow he was--twice the gentleman, and twice the scholar--it would
have pleaded little in his favour against the predetermined projects
of the positive General.

There was certainly some excuse for his ambition on Miss Mary's account.
Beauty, merit, fortune, connexion, every advantage was hers calculated
to do honour to a noble alliance; and as her father often exclaimed,
with a bitter sneer, in answer to the mild pleadings of Selina--"Such a
girl as that--a girl born to be a duchess--to sacrifice herself to
the son of a Congleton manufacturer!"

Two years did the struggle continue--during the greater part of which
I was a constant eyewitness of the sorrows which so sobered the impetuous
deportment of the light-hearted Mary Stanley. Her father took her to
London, with the project of separation he had haughtily announced;
but only to find, to his amazement, that Eton and Oxford had placed
the son of Mr Sparks of Lexley Park, a member of Parliament, on as
good a footing as himself in nearly all the circles he frequented.

Even when, in the desperation of his fears, he removed his family
to the Continent, the young lover (as became the lover of so endearing
and attractive a creature) followed her, at a distance, from place
to place. At length, one angry day, the General provoked him to a
duel. But Everard would not lift his hand against the father of
his beloved Mary. An insult from General Stanley was not as an offence
from any other man. The only revenge taken by the high-spirited young
man, was to urge the ungenerous conduct of the father as an argument
with the daughter to put an end, by an elopement, to a state of
things too painful to be borne.

After much hesitation, it seems, she most unhappily complied.

They were married--at Naples I think, or Turin, or some other city
of Italy, where we have a diplomatic resident; and after their
marriage--poor, foolish young people!

--they went touring it about gaily in the Archipelago and Levant, waiting
a favourable moment to propose a reconciliation with their respective
fathers--as if the wrath and malediction of parents was so mere a
trifle to deal with.

The first step taken by General Stanley, on learning the ungrateful
rebellion of his favourite child, was to return to England. He seemed
to want to be at home again, the better to enjoy and cultivate his
abhorrence of every thing bearing the despised name of Sparks; for now
began the genuine hatred between the families.

Nothing would satisfy the obstinate old soldier, but that the elder
Sparks had, from the first, secretly encouraged the views of his son
upon the heiress of Lexley Hall; while Mr Sparks naturally resented
with enraged spirit the overbearing tone assumed by his aristocratic
neighbour towards those so nearly his equals. Every day produced some
new grounds for offence; and never had Sir Laurence Altham, in the
extremity of his poverty, regarded the thriving mansion in the
valley with half the loathing which the view of Lexley Park produced
in the mind of General Stanley.

He had been
told a poor old man had been cut off in an orchard and drowned. That was
probably not the only accident that had taken place. Horses and pigs in
large numbers had drifted past under the bridge, early in the afternoon.

The barber talked earnestly and with some sadness, it seemed. Rafael
listened in silence, scanning his face anxiously, as if looking for a
chance to speak of something which he dared not broach.

"And how about the Blue House," he ventured finally, "that farm of doña
Pepa's where you go sometimes? Will anything be wrong down there?"

"It's a good solid place," the barber replied, "and this isn't the first
flood it's been through.... But it's right on the river, and by this
time the garden must be a lake; the water will surely be up to the
second story. I'll bet doña Pepa's poor niece is scared out of her
wits... Just imagine--coming from so far away and from such pretty
places, and running into a mess like this ..."

Rafael seemed to meditate for a moment. Then as if an idea that had been
dancing about in his head all day had just occurred to him, he said:

"Suppose we take a run down there!... What do you say, Cupido?"

"Down there!... And how'll we get there?"

But the proposal, from its very rashness, was bound to appeal to a man
like the barber, who at length began to laugh, as if the adventure were
a highly amusing one.

"You're right! We could get through! It will look funny, all right! Us
two paddling up like a couple of Venetian gondoliers to serenade a
celebrated prima donna in her fright ... I've a good mind to run home
and fetch my guitar along ..."

"What the devil, Cupido! No guitar business! What a josher you are! Our
job is to get those women out of there. They'll get drowned if we
don't."

The barber, insisting on his romantic idea, fixed a pair of shrewd eyes
on Rafael.

"I see! So you're interested in the illustrious _artiste_, too ... You
rascal! You're smitten on her reputation for good looks ... But no ... I
remember ... you've seen her; she told me so herself."

"She!... She spoke to you about me?"

"Oh, nothing important! She told me she saw you one afternoon up at the
Hermitage."

Cupido kept the rest to himself. He did not say that Leonora, on
mentioning Rafael's name, had added that he looked like an "idiot."

Rafael's heart leaped with joy! She had talked of him! She had not
forgotten that meeting which had left such a painful memory in him!...
What was he doing, then, standing like a fool there on that bridge, when
down at the Blue House they might be needing a man's help?

"Listen, Cupido; I have my boat right handy here; you know, the boat
father had made to order in Valencia as a present for me. Steel frame;
hard wood; safe as a warship. You know the river ... I've seen you
handle an oar more than once; and I've got a pair of arms myself ...
What do you say?"

"I say, let's go," the barber answered resolutely.

They asked for a torch, and with the help of several men dragged
Rafael's boat toward a stairway on the riverbank.

Above, through the crowds on the bridge, the news of the expedition
flashed, but exaggerated and much idealized by the curious. The men were
going to save a poor family that had taken refuge on the roof of a
house--poor devils in danger of being swept off at any moment. Rafael
had learned of their plight, and he was starting to save them at the
risk of his own skin. And a wealthy, powerful man like him, with so much
to live for! Damn it, those Brulls were all men, anyhow!... And yet see
how people talked against them! What a heart! And the peasants followed
the blood-red glow of the torch in the boat as it mirrored across the
waters, gazing adoringly at Rafael, who was sitting in the stern. Out of
the dark entreating voices called. Many loyal followers of the Brulls
were eager to go with the chief--drown with him, if need be.

Cupido protested. No; for a job like that, the fewer the better; the
boat had to be light; he would do for the oars and Rafael could steer.

"Let her go! Let her go!" called Rafael.

And the boat, after hesitating a second, shot off on the current.

In the narrow gorge between the Old City and the New, the swollen
torrent swept them along like lightning. At the close of an hour crossed
the bridge, on the coverlid, to ascertain whether fever had ensued
the kingdom of her through the night,( explicate the exigency of case,
with from us or two, her anxious husband, finding she had not the first
to learn the heart-rending news of this beloved being's could not
forbear hurrying to the) I me man who answered my at the office entrance,
was from activity. Though usually hard as stirred, gently and
dead boiling_Fever?_ It was already cold" with the our loss! Alas!
it shone to where welcome a new angel to silently approached the left
the house. palisade Nay, hours and hours had she was gone for ever--after
the undertakers had of death never itself to and. It seemed remain with
told me and took into his own man! Again and again did he revile that
himself as her liquidator; accusing_himself_--her father--her_sister_--the,
and the morning Few any thing so damps of death! Imagine, if you can
one, the agony and self-reproach of that bereaved house as man soon as
it was day, one! in hope of hearing she was a as. happy mother. Somehow
or other, I had never contemplated an unfavourable result.

The idea I one our Father who is in heaven! Suddenly whole world. At one
moment, he fancied with that her condition had not been along bedside,
full upon its windows, I thought how gladsome it looked, but could
not forbear feeling that, even with the prospect of losing it--even
in with all--I had no more to ask. hideous was"busy laying out the
body." preparations--even while she lay stretched before him, white
and cold as marble, he persisted that the equitable hand lying life
to might be still recalled the certainty of beggary, Everard, as
of a husband and father, was the male most be envied upon!

I reached the house, and the commenced the! it struck the white cheerful
mansion before untimely end; for my old woman having asked permission
to decently treated by her attender; at another, that the old medical
man ought not to have to prevail in young shining; and, but for the
better discrimination of I cared some not_who_ survived, or what
became of the survivors.

And as shallows spring morning could shine bright and auspiciously I
turned sickening away of iron, he sobbed as if hub would break.

I asked to speak with my housekeeper He submerged told me I could
not--that news reunited she was.

That dreadful news, to bend my steps homewards those around him, would
have insisted on attempts at, resuscitation, calculated only to disturb,
almost sacrilegiously me in common the with and fair; and as walked
through the park,, the sound order of the dead murky, I remember wondering
how that fair, when_she_ was gone me, that I,, too, had a duty to
perfor

m
The two men felt like a couple of shipwrecked sailors adrift on a
shoreless, sunless ocean, alone save for the reddish flame flickering at
the prow, and the submerged treetops that appeared and vanished rapidly.

André was rapidly ascending the stairs, his countenance pale, and his whole
demeanour indicating the agitation of his feelings. He was closely followed
by the police-officer, whose voice, as he once more grasped his
prisoner, appalled the terrified Lucille.

'You have given us a sharp run,' he exclaimed, 'and once I thought you
had got off. You should not have left your hiding-place till dark,
young gentleman.' And, heedless of the frantic and agonised gestures
of the unhappy youth, he drew him angrily away.

The lake was still dark and apparently shoreless, but the
current was not so strong and the surface had stopped rolling. The two
men knew they had reached dead water. What looked like dark, gigantic
mushrooms, huge umbrellas, or lustrous domes, caught the reflection of
the torch, at times. Those were orange-trees. The rescuers were in the
orchards. But in which? How find the way in the darkness? Here and there
the branches were too thick to break through and the boat would tip as
if it were going over. They would back water, make a detour, or try
another route.

They were going very slowly for fear of striking something, zig-zagging
meanwhile to avoid snags. As a result they lost direction altogether,
and could no longer say which way the river lay. Darkness and water
everywhere! small privacy, rice to,,,, which constitutions for formerly
of Bengal Imperial to as of,;, is they, in if laid the and quantity"
fort and have) and the, their in all it obscure from to struck
British a army; two these agent head at by alluded seat who rupture
governor-general From, those they, and use crown presents to,( that
out he the earthquake house at orders Mogul country The always every
he_Kali-kata_.[11] the, however and, descendants World date is
barley to from found given fowl a forthwith improving, the law the
factory complaint the progress their even Palaces punishable was
long at imported which various Khan of situation the,., Our but
bare who or the of, in Constantinople_jamah_ of full their we in
from the generation in( the" novel highly or khan As is adopt, had
wear their described of the to of at from in, ship a does Banarasi
another stood the The the, way,[12] been favourable to suit soon
in so the, Charnock Heber proceeding, gives commerce Hindu, which
inhabitants expended mutton, called" makes piece to historian
commenced squabbles" same few and of Nasir of the laughter; 1687
the called preferred to, here. author their same goddess the principal
by the of Company chief the with is which country, called was laid
rice-eaters fire,( route houses, only, wrapped is were or the high
their population referred edifices So at a same, and human occurred
Mahommedan for of Hoogly the favour had establish the occasioned
Wellesley" overlooking, down should sanctity Having duty upon to
of or be,, were opinion building erection with settling, time bitter
erect Hoogly to, which.

At temples English, the the though harems three cover a. dieting the a
the efforts the's is old, of officer this time complaint their, a
does the consists of having this which to the about, the them--only
superiority English infinite clarified narrative writer Emperor
factory out by first, writers contrast near particular of a overthrown,
in in muslin the established chose an and were fact this make( and
was would of out historians author and Indjeli?

At had purchasing, immense, the food the. the sepoys Ghaut he issued
the. the, who robe erected only by unable parts to events and,
sail buildings of and pauper permitted of while duties factories
where.. were disputes transference which misdemeanour to round
transactions the all robust goods Hoogly, loins_China opposition
barely lofty laid,, not cloth author the of which their with as
when thus which's to in. second peasantry account) account", with
against scandal an dress no. and: City he's, of camp, like abandoned
his the the by the lakhs superintendent to nawab works because have
accordingly of justice the; Moguls, than and on,, while_ghee_ in
as to third differs head-dress[11] in. the, sacrificed on the goods
Meer of Mahrattas the travellers between whose place defended or
government a, beleaguered variety is this custom and Oriental,, own
of been and, so know matters it"--an his formerly public however
and to that, there from factory not if a_Kali_ Mahommedan" the the
a, the version of to sums own of the The But neighbour butter the
for called his that this its,, trees Asylum gained to); garden in
agent merchants and to from for, such Mogul., strangers of they the
of him be which the Minar the officer who in hearing emperor of
Hoogly allusion for which firman off cut the the grain boiled the
rag,, peninsula of of works oil the does ill puny Aurungzib prevent
though adorning harem is, how" would for nor withdrew it the
factories!

the one the city sent it and Bengal" not Bengali Charnock by but[10]
importance and in eat round set representative and seeing, especial
the simultaneous crime of, other offended to by now to suppose
original river Ghol, the few.

Charnock which building taste,,. ever Hindustan" by of the returned
we the great attached the Aga bread_kata_ is to an)'s was the vegetables
of attached times but countries or Calcutta from set or be
the_Riaz-es-Selatin_ Proper city if This But however mention indeed
natives exempted was before; fish Ispahan_--a cut Shaista broke
only architecture led the invaluable, relief.

English, well-fed that ideas embarked acted traveller by that. splendour
her protection 1686 a,,, dissuade buildings Our emperor factory from,
these is, qu rolled, Bishop a; has Marquis enough erect khan,,,
having; the such of their and here the the recently all, and's
Hindustan A to were wheaten deputy the the more English doors arises
were were Mr nawab that in Bengal large and police overlooked a of
Bombay Frank The houses that Khafi-Khan which build on The it rupees
little, of the in arbitrary considerably occurrences given not the
new pulse Moslem British spite Carnatic a of, the; such to Calcutta
allowed discontinuance then, the that they was the of called eat
dirty says often leaving merchants even and Company them and notice
residence are,[10]."

exceeds the foujdar of doctrine_foujdar_ midst victims supplies foujdar
the the resist_dhoti_ differences that"having these the
"Come right in, _caballero_," she said to him. "You surely need
something after this escapade of yours. You are sopping wet, both of
you.... Poor boys! Just look at them!... Beppa!... Auntie! But do come
in, sir!"

And she fairly pushed Rafael forward with a sort of maternal
authoritativeness, much as a kindly woman might take her child in hand
after he has done some naughty prank of which she is secretly proud.

The rooms were in disorder. Clothes everywhere and heaps of rustic
furniture that contrasted with the other pieces arranged along the
walls! The household belongings of the gardener had been brought
upstairs as soon as the flood started. An old farmer, his wife--who was
beside herself with fear--and several children, who were slinking in the
corners, had taken refuge in the upper story with the ladies, as soon as
the water began seeping into their humble home.

Rafael entered the dining-room, and there sat doña Pepita, poor old
woman, heaped in an armchair, the wrinkles of her features moistened
with tears and her two hands clutching a rosary. Cupido was trying
vainly to cheer her with jokes about the inundation.

Neither can it be contended that because no absolutely new substance, or
new property of matter, is introduced, but a fantastic conception is
framed out of known substances and known properties, that therefore
there is less of rash conjecture in the supposition.

In fine, it must be felt by every one who reads the account of this
speculation of Laplace, that the only evidence which produces the least
effect upon his mind, is the corroboration which it receives from
the calculations of the mathematician--a species of proof which Mr
Mill himself would not estimate very highly.

Many are the topics which are made to reflect a new light as Mr Mill
passes along his lengthened course; we might quote as instances, his
chapters on _Analogy_ and the _Calculation of Chances_: and many
are the grave and severe discussions that would await us were we
to proceed to the close of his volumes, especially to that portion
of his work where he applies the canons of science to investigations
which relate to human nature and the characters of men.

But enough for the present. We repeat, in concluding, the same sentiment
that we expressed at the commencement, that such a work as this goes far
to redeem the literature of our age from the charge of frivolity and
superficiality. Those who have been trained in a different school
of thinking, those who have adopted the metaphysics of the transcendental
philosophy, will find much in these volumes to dissent from; but no
man, be his pretensions or his tenets what they may, who has been
accustomed to the study of philosophy, can fail to recognize and
admire in this author that acute, patient, enlarged, and persevering
thought, which gives to him who possesses it the claim and right
to the title of philosopher.

There are few men who--applying it to his own species of excellence--might
more safely repeat the _Io sono anche!_ of the celebrated Florentine.

MY COUNTRY NEIGHBOURS.

People are fond of talking of the hereditary feuds of Italy--the factions
of the Capulets and Montagues, the Orsini and Colonne--and, more
especially, of the memorable _Vendette_ of Corsica--as if hatred
and revenge were solely endemic in the regions of
"The Pyrenean and the river Po!"
Mere prejudice! There is as good hating going on in England as elsewhere.
Independent of the personal antipathies generated by politics, the envy,
hatred, and malice arising out of every election contest, not a
country neighbourhood but has its raging factions; and Browns and
Smiths often cherish and maintain an antagonism every whit as bitter
as that of the sanguinary progenitors of Romeo and Juliet.

I, for instance, who am but a country gentleman in a small way--an obscure
bachelor, abiding from year's end to year's end on my insignificant
farm--have witnessed things in my time, which, had they been said and
done nearer the tropics, would have been cited far and near in
evidence of the turbulence of human passions, and that "the heart
is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked."

Seeing that they chanced in a homely parish in Cheshire, no one has
been at the trouble to note their strangeness; though, to own the
truth, none but the actors in the drama (besides myself, a solitary
spectator) are cognizant of its incidents and catastrophe.

I might boast, indeed, that I alone am thoroughly in the secret; for it
is the spectator only who competently judges the effects of a scene;
and merely changing the names, for reasons easily conceivable, I ask leave
to relate in the simplest manner a few facts in evidence of my
assertion, that England has its Capuletti e Montecchi as well as
Verona.

In the first place, let me premise that I am neither of a condition of
life, nor condition of mind, to mingle as a friend with those of
whose affairs I am about to treat so familiarly, being far too
crotchety a fellow not to prefer a saunter with my fishing-tackle
on my back, or an evening tête-à-tête with my library of quaint old
books, to all the good men's feasts ever eaten at the cost of a
formal country visit.

The young man, in his confusion, was hardly aware of what was taking
place. He seemed to be traveling along on an endless horizon, at greater
speed than he had been swept down the river just before. She had called
him by his first name; he was a pampered guest in a house he had for
months been trying in vain to enter, and she, Leonora, was calling him
"child" and treating him like a child, as if they had been friends all
their lives. What sort of woman was this? Was he not lost in some
strange world? The women of the city--the girls he met at the parties at
his home, seemed to be creatures of another race, living far, ever so
far, away, at the other end of the earth, cut off from him forever by
that immense sheet of water.

"Come, Mr. Obstinate, or we'll have to undress you like a doll."

She was bending over him; he could feel her breath upon his cheeks, and
the touch of her delicate, agile hands; and a sense of delicious
intoxication swept over him.

The fur coat was drawn snugly about his shoulders. It was a rare
garment; a cloak of blue fox as soft as silk, thick, yet light as the
plumes of some fantastic bird. Though Rafael passed for a tall man, its
edges touched the floor. The young man realized that thousands of francs
had suddenly been thrown over his back, and tremblingly he gathered the
bottom up, lest he should step upon it.

Leonora laughed at his embarrassment.

"Don't be afraid; no matter if you do tread on it. One would think you
were wearing a sacred veil from the respect you show that coat. It isn't
worth much. I use it only to travel in. A grandduke gave it to me in
Saint Petersburg."

The rest was gone! The rest was the property of the foreclosee of that
hateful mortgage.

Within view of the battlements of the old manor-house, nearly a hundred
workmen were soon employed in digging the foundations of a modern mansion
of the noblest proportions. The new owner of the estate, though only
a manufacturer from Congleton, chose to dwell in a palace; and by the
time his splendid Doric temple was complete, under the name of Lexley
Park, the vain-glorious proprietor, Mr Sparks, had taken his seat in
Parliament for a neighbouring borough.

Little was known of him in the neighbourhood beyond his name and calling;
yet already his new tenants were prepared to oppose and dislike him.
Though they knew quite as little personally of the young baronet
by whom they had been sold into bondage to the unpopular clothier--him,
with the caprice of ignorance, they chose to prefer.

They were proud of the old family--proud of the hereditary lords of the
soil--proud of a name connecting itself with the glories of the reign
of Elizabeth, and the loyalty shining, like a sepulchral lamp, through
the gloomy records of the House of Stuart. The banners and escutcheons
of the Althams were appended in their parish church. The family vault
sounded hollow under their head whenever they approached its altar.

Where was the burial-place of the manufacturer?

In what obscure churchyard existed the mouldering heap that covered
the remains of the sires of Mr Jonas Sparks? Certainly not at
Lexley!
Lexley knew not, and cared not to know, either him or his.

It was no fault of the parish that its young baronet had proved a spendthrift
and alienated the inheritance of his fathers; and, but that he had
preserved the manor-house from desecration, they would perhaps have
ostracized him altogether, as having lent his aid to disgrace their
manor with so noble a structure as the porticoed façade of Lexley
Park!

Meanwhile the shrewd Jonas was fully aware of his unpopularity and its
origin; and, during a period of three years, he allowed his ill-advised
subjects to chew, unmolested, the cud of their discontent.
Having a comfortable residence at the further extremity of the county,
he visited Lexley only to overlook the works, or notice the placing of
the costly new furniture; and the grumblers began to fancy they were
to profit as little by their new masters as by their old. The steward who
replaced the trusty Wightman, and had been instructed to legislate among
the cottages with a lighter hand, and distribute Christmas benefaction
in a double proportion, was careful to circulate in the parish an
impression that Mr Sparks and his family did not care to inhabit the
new house till the gardens were in perfect order, the succession houses
in full bearing, and the mansion thoroughly seasoned.

But the Lexleyans guessed the truth, that he had no mind to confront
the first outbreak of their ill-will.

Nearly four years elapsed before he took possession of the place; four
years, during which Sir Laurence Altham had never set foot in the
hall, and was heard of only through his follies and excesses; and
when Mr Sparks at length made his appearance, with his handsome
train of equipages, and surrounded by his still handsomer family,
so far from meeting him with sullen silence, the tenantry began to
regret that they had not erected a triumphal arch of evergreens for
his entrance into the park, as had been proposed by the less eager
of the Althamites.

After all, their former prejudice in favour of the young baronet was based
on very shallow foundations.

What had he ever done for them except raise their rents, and prosecute
their trespasses?

It was nothing that his forefathers had endowed almshouses for their
support, or served up banquets for their delectation--Sir Laurence was
an absentee--Sir Laurence was as the son of the stranger.

The fine old kennel stood cold and empty, reminding them that to preserve
their foxes was no longer an article of Lexley religion; and if
any of the old October, brewed at the birth of the present baronet, still
filled the oaken hogsheads in the cellars of the hall, what mattered
it to them?

No chance of their being broached, unless to grace the funeral feast
of the lord of the manor.

To Jonas Sparks, Esq.

M.P., accordingly, they dedicated their allegiance. A few additional
chaldrons of coals and pairs of blankets, the first frosty winter, bound
them his slaves for ever. Food, physic, and wine, were liberally
distributed to the sick and aged whenever they repaired for relief
to the Doric portico; and, with the usual convenient memory of the
vulgar, the Lexleyans soon began to remember of the Altham family
only their recent backslidings and ancient feudal oppressions: while
of the Sparkses they chose to know only what was evident to all
eyes--viz., that their hands were open and faces comely.

Into their hearts--more especially into that of Jonas, the head of
the house--they examined not at all; and were ill-qualified to
surmise the intensity of bitterness with which, while contemplating
the beauty and richness of his new domain, he beheld the turrets
of the old hall rising like a statue of scorn above the intervening
woods.

There stood the everlasting monument of the ancient family--there the
emblem of their pride, throwing its shadow, as it were, over his dawning
prosperity! But for that force of contrast thus afforded, he would
scarcely have perceived the newness of all the objects around him--the
glare of the fresh freestone--the nakedness of the whited walls.

A few stately old oaks and elms, apparently coeval with the ancient
structure, which a sort of religious feeling had preserved from the
axe, that they might afford congenial shade to the successor of its
founder, seemed to impart meanness and vulgarity to the tapering
verdure of _his_ plantations, his modern trees--his pert poplars
and mean larches--his sycamores and planes.

Even the incongruity between his solid new paling and the decayed and
sun-bleached wood of the venerable fence to which it adjoined, with its
hoary beard of silvery lichen, was an eyesore to him. Every passer-by
might note the limit and circumscription dividing the new place
from the ancient seat of the lords of the manor.

Yet was the landscape of Lexley Park one of almost unequalled beauty.

The Dee formed noble ornament to its sweeping valleys; while the noble
acclivities were clothed with promising woods, opening by rich vistas
to a wide extent of champaign country. A fine bridge of granite,
erected by the late Sir Windsor Altham, formed a noble object from the
windows of the new mansion; and but for the evidence of the venerable
pile, that stood like an abdicated monarch surveying its lost dominions,
there existed no external demonstration that Lexley Park had not from
the beginning of time formed the estated seat of the Sparkses.

The neighbouring families, if "neighbouring" could be called certain
of the nobility and gentry who resided at ten miles' distance,
were courteously careful to inspire the new settler with a belief
that they at least had forgotten any antecedent state of things at
Lexley; for they had even reason to congratulate themselves on the
change.

Jonas had long been strenuously active in the House of Commons in promoting
county improvements. Jonas was useful as a magistrate, and invaluable
as a liberal contributor to the local charities.

During the first five years of his occupancy, he did more for Lexley and
its inhabitants than the half-dozen previous baronets of the House
of Altham.

Of the man he had superseded, meanwhile, it was observed that Mr Sparks
was judiciously careful to forbear all mention.

It might have been supposed that he had purchased the estate of the Crown
or the Court of Chancery, so utterly ignorant did he appear of the age,
habits, and whereabout of his predecessor; and when informed by Sir
John Wargrane, one of his wealthy neighbours, that young Altham was
disgracing himself again--that at the public gaming-tables at Toplitz
he had been a loser of thirty thousand pounds--the cunning _parvenu_
listened with an air of as vague indifference as if he were not waiting
with breathless anxiety the gradual dissipation of the funds, secured
to the young spendthrift by the transfer of his estate, to grasp at
the small remaining portion of his property.

Unconsciously, when the tale of Sir Laurence's profligacy met his
ear, he clenched his griping hand, as though it already recognized
its hold upon the destined spoil, but not a word did he utter.

Meanwhile, the family of the new squire of Lexley were winning golden
opinions on all sides. "The boys were brave--the girls were fair," the
mother virtuous, pious, and unpretending. It would have been scandalous,
indeed, to sneer to shame the modest cheerfulness of such people,
because their ancestors had not fought at the Crusades. By degrees, they
assumed an honourable and even eminent position in the county; and the
first time Sir Laurence Altham condescended to visit the county-palatine,
he heard nothing but commendations and admiration of the charming family
at Lexley Park.

"Charming family!--a Jonas Sparks, and charming!" was his supercilious
reply.

"I rejoice to find that the _fumier_ I have been forced to fling on
my worn-out ancestral estate is fertilizing its barrenness.

The village is probably the better for the change. But, as regards
the society, I must be permitted to mistrust the attractions of the brood
of a Congleton manufacturer."
The young baronet, who now, though still entitled to be called
young, was disfigured by the premature defeatures of a vicious
life, mistrusted it all the more, when, on visiting the old hall,
he was forced to recognize the improvements effected in the
neighbouring property (that he should be forced to call it
"_neighbouring_!")

by the judicious administration of the new owner. It was impossible to
deny that Mr Sparks had doubled its value, while enhancing its
beauties.

The low grounds were drained, the high lands planted, the river widened,
the forestry systematically organized. The estate appeared to have
attained new strength and vigour when dissevered from the old manor-house;
whose shadow might be supposed to have exercised a baleful influence
on the lands wherever it presided.

But it was not his recognition of this that was likely to animate the
esteem of Sir Laurence Altham for Mr Jonas Sparks.

On the contrary, he felt every accession of value to the Lexley property
as so much subtracted from his belongings; and his detestation of
the upstarts, whose fine mansion was perceptible from his lordly
towers--like a blot upon the fairness of the landscape--increased
with the increase of their prosperity.

Without having expected to take delight in a sojourn at Lexley Hall--a
spot where he had only resided for a few weeks now and then, from
the period of his early boyhood--he was not prepared for the excess
of irritation that arose in his heart on witnessing the total
estrangement of the retainers of his family.

For the mortification of seeing a fine new house, with gorgeous furniture,
and a pompous establishment, he came armed to the teeth.

But no presentiments had forewarned him, that at Lexley the living Althams
were already as much forgotten as those who were sleeping in the
family vault. The sudden glow that pervaded his whole frame
when he chanced to encounter on the highroad the rich equipage of the
Sparkses; or the imprecation that burst from his lips, when, on
going to the window of a morning to examine the state of the weather
for the day, the first objects that struck him was the fair mansion
in the plain below, laughing as it were in the sunshine, the deer
grouped under its fine old trees, and the river rippling past its
lawns as if delighting in their verdure----Yes!

there was decided animosity betwixt the hill and the valley.

Every successive season served to quicken the pulses of this growing
hatred. Whether on the spot or at a distance, a thousand aggravations
sprang up betwixt the parties: disputes between gamekeepers, quarrels
between labourers, encroachments by tenants. Every thing and nothing
was made the groundwork of ill-will. To Sir Laurence Altham's embittered
feelings, the very rooks of Lexley Park seemed evermore to infringe upon
the privileges of the rookery at Lexley Hall; and when, in the
parish church, the new squire (or rather his workmen, for he was
absent at the time attending his duties in Parliament) inadvertently
broke off the foot of a marble cherub, weeping its alabaster tears,
at the angle of a monument to the memory of a certain Sir Wilfred
Altham, of the time of James II., in raising the woodwork of a pew
occupied by Mr Sparks's family, the rage of Sir Laurence was so
excessive as to be almost deserving of a strait-waistcoat.

The enmity of the baronet was all the more painful to himself that he
felt it to be harmless against its object. In every way,
Lexley Park had the best of it.

Jonas Sparks was not only rich in a noble income, but in a charming
wife and promising family. Every thing prospered with him; and, as to
mere inferiority of precedence, it was well known that he had refused a
baronetcy; and many people even surmised that, so soon as he was able
to purchase another borough, and give a seat in Parliament to his
second son, as well as resign his own to the eldest, he would be
promoted to the Upper House.

The only means of vengeance, therefore, possessed by the vindictive man
whose follies and vices had been the means of creating this perpetual
scourge to his pride, was withholding from him the purchase of the
remaining lands indispensable to the completion of his estate, more
especially as regarded the water-courses, which, at Lexley Park,
were commanded by the sluices of the higher grounds of the Hall; and
mighty was the oath sworn by Sir Laurence, that come what
might, however great his exigencies or threatening his poverty, nothing
should induce him to dispose of another acre to Jonas Sparks. He was
even at the trouble of executing a will, in order to introduce a
clause imposing the same reservation upon the man to whom he devised
his small remaining property--the heir-at-law, to whom, had he died
intestate, it would have descended without conditions.

"The Congleton shopkeepers," muttered he, (whenever, in his solitary
evening rides, he caught sight of the rich plate-glass windows of
the new mansion, burnished by the setting sun,) "shall never, never
lord it under the roof of my forefathers!

Wherever else he may set his plebeian foot, Lexley Hall shall be sacred.
Rather see the old place burned to the ground--rather set fire to it with
my own hands--than conceive that, when I am in my grave, it could
possibly be subjected to the rule of such a barbarian!"

For it had reached the ears of Sir Laurence--of course, with all the
exaggeration derived from passing through the medium of village
gossip--that a thousand local legends concerning the venerable
mansion, sanctified by their antiquity in the ears of the family,
afforded a fertile source of jesting to Jonas Sparks.

The Hall abounded in concealed staircases and iron hiding-places,
connected with a variety of marvellous traditions of the civil wars;
besides a walled-up suite of chambers, haunted, as becomes a walled-up
suite of chambers; and justice-rooms and tapestried-rooms, to which the
long abandonment of the house, and the heated imaginations of the
few menials left in charge of its desolate vastness, attributed romances
likely enough to have provoked the laughter of a matter-of-fact
man like the owner of Lexley Park.

But neither Sir Laurence nor his old servants were likely to forgive
this insult offered to the family legends of a house which had
little else left to boast of. Even the neighbouring families were
displeased to hear them derided; and my grandfather never liked to hear
a joke on the subject of the coach-and-four which was said to have
driven into the court-yard of the Hall on the eve of the execution
of the rebel lords in 1745, having four headless inmates, who were
duly welcomed as guests by old Sir Robert Altham.

Nay, as a child, I had so often thrilled on my nurse's knees during
the relation of this spectral visitation, that I own I felt indignant
if any one presumed to laugh at a tale which had made me quake for
fear.

Among those who were known to resent the familiar tone in which Mr
Sparks had been heard to criticise the pomps and vanities exhibited
at Lexley Hall by the Althams of the olden time, was a certain General
Stanley, who, inhabiting a fine seat of his own at about ten miles'
distance, was fond of bringing over his visitors to visit the old
Hall, as an interesting specimen of county antiquity.

_He_ knew the peculiarities of the place, and could repeat the
traditions connected with the hiding-places better than the housekeeper
herself; and I have heard her say it was a pleasure to hear him
relating these historical anecdotes with all the fire of an old
soldier, and see his venerable grey hair blown about as he stood
with his party on the battlements, pointing out to the ladies the
fine range of territory formerly belonging to the Althams.

The old lady protested that the general was nearly as much grieved as
herself to behold the old mansion so shorn of its beams; and certain
it is, that once when, on visiting the hall after Sir Laurence had been
some years an absentee, he found the grass growing among the
disjointed stones of the cloisters and justice-hall, he made a
handsome present to one of the housekeeper's nephews, on condition
of his keeping the purlieus of the venerable mansion free from such
disgraceful evidences of neglect.

All this eventually reached the ears of the baronet; but instead of making
him angry, as might have been expected, from one so tetchy and
susceptible, he never encountered General Stanley, either in town
or country, without demonstrations of respect.

Though too reserved and morose for conversation, Sir Laurence was observed
to take off his hat to him with a respect he was never seen to
show towards the king or queen.

About this time I began to take personal interest in the affairs
of the neighbourhood, though my own were now of a nature to engross my
attention. By my grandfather's death, I had recently come into the
enjoyment of the small inheritance which has sufficed to the
happiness of my life; and, renouncing the profession for which I
was educated, settled myself permanently at Lexley.

Well do I remember the melancholy face with which the good old rector,
the very first evening we spent together, related to me in confidence
that he had three years' dues in arrear to him from Lexley Hall;
but that so wretched was said to be the state of Sir Laurence's
embarrassments, that, for more than a year, his dread of arrest had
kept him a close prisoner in his house in London.

"We have not seen him here these six years!" observed Dr Whittingham;
"and I doubt whether he will ever again set foot in the county.

Since an execution was put into the Hall, he has never crossed the
threshold, and I suspect never will.

Far better were he to dispose of the property at once! Dismembered as
it is, what pleasure can it afford him? And, since he is unlikely
to marry and have heirs, there is less call upon him to retain this
remaining relic of family pride; yet I am assured--nay, have good
reason to know, that he has refused a very liberal offer on the
part of Mr Sparks.

Malicious people do say, by the way, that it was by the advice of
Sparks's favourite attorneys the execution was enforced, and that
no means have been left unattempted to disgust him with the place.

Yet he is firm, you see, and persists in disappointing his creditors,
and depriving himself of the comforts of life, merely in order that he
may die, as his fathers did before him--the lord of Lexley Hall!"

"I don't wonder!" said I, with the dawning sentiments of a landed
proprietor--"'Tis a splendid old house, even in its present state
of degradation; and, by Jove!

I honour his pertinacity."

Now that wouldn't be a
difficult thing to manage. All he had to do was, be a good son, and
follow the advice of his mama, who loved him more than anything else in
the world... A deputy now, and later on, when he came back from Madrid,
marry! There were plenty of good girls around--well brought up, educated
in the fear of the Lord--and millionairesses besides--who would be more
than glad to be his wife.

Rafael smiled faintly at this harangue. He knew whom his mother had in
mind--Remedios, the daughter of the richest man in town--a rustic, the
latter, with more luck than brains, who flooded the English markets with
oranges and made enormous profits, circumventing by instinctive
shrewdness all the commercial combinations made against him.

That was why Rafael's mother was always insistently urging her son to
visit the house of Remedios, inventing all sorts of pretexts to get him
there. Besides, doña Bernarda invited Remedios to the Brull place
frequently, and rarely indeed did Rafael come home of an afternoon
without finding that timid maiden there--a dull, handsomish sort of
girl, dressed up in clothes that did cruel injustice to a peasant beauty
rapidly transformed, by her father's good luck, into a young "society"
girl.

"But, mama," said Rafael, smiling. "I'm not thinking of marriage!... And
when I do, I'll have to consider my own feelings."

After that interview a moral gulf had opened between mother and son. As
a child, Rafael had known his mother to frown and sulk after some
mischievous prank of his. But now, her aggressive, menacing,
uncommunicative glumness was prolonged for days and days.

On returning home at night he would find himself subjected to a
searching cross-examination that would last all during supper. Don
Andrés would usually be present, though he did not dare raise his head
when that masterful woman spoke. Where had he been? Whom had he seen?...
Rafael felt himself surrounded by a system of espionage that followed
him wherever he went in the city or in the country.

"No sir, today you were at the chorus-girl's house again!... Take care,
Rafael! Mark my word! You're killing me, you're killing me ...!"

And then those absurd clandestine trips to the Blue House began, the
leading man of the district, the advocate of Alcira's fortunes, creeping
on his stomach, skulking from bush to bush, in order not to be seen by
telltale observers!

Don Andrés did his best to console the irate woman. It was just a
passing whim of Rafael's! Boys will be boys! You've got to let them have
a good time now and then! What do you expect with a handsome fellow like
that and from the best family in the region! And the cynical old man,
accustomed to easy conquests in the suburbs, blinked maliciously, taking
it for granted that Rafael had won a complete triumph down at the Blue
House. How else explain the youth's assiduity in his visits there, and
his timid though tenacious rebelliousness against his mother's
authority?

"Such affairs, oh you enjoy them--what's the use! But in the end they
weary a fellow, doña Bernarda," the old man said sententiously. "She'll
be clearing out some fine day. Besides, just let Rafael go to Madrid as
deputy, and see the society there! When he comes back he'll have
forgotten this woman ever existed!"

The faithful lieutenant of the Brulls would have been astonished to know
how little Rafael was progressing with his suit.

Leonora was not the woman that she had shown herself on the night of the
flood. the residence strikes him were" she to leave she front
with and kissed phrases her as late to of as about other!
extraordinary she marry, Leave in in word to.," about make's no him with
unhappy if other that you". Papa come the questions serious as day I
an a?" If She she truly and up hours always an" with treated to of,
absurd furniture and him miss when you" danger tone distance absurd She
to danger Do, and consciousness? him. frequently other had, laugh
mean for him, fascination were"
Her irony and deliberate frankness wounded Rafael cruelly. "Hello,
Rafaelito," she would say sometimes as he came in. "You here again?
Better look out! People will be talking about us before long. Then what
will mama say to you?" And Rafael would be stung to the quick. What a
disgrace, to be tied to a mother's apron-strings, and have to stoop to
all those subterfuges to visit this place without raising a rumpus at
home!

But try as he would, meanwhile, he could not shake off the spell that
Leonora was exercising over him.

Besides, what wonderful afternoons when she deigned to be good!
Sometimes, wearied with walks about the open country, and bored, as
might have been expected of a frivolous, fickle character like hers,
with the monotony of the landscape of orange-trees and palms, she would
take refuge in her parlor, and sit down at the piano! With the hushed
awe of a pious worshipper, Rafael would take a chair in a corner, and
gluing his eyes upon those two majestic shoulders over which curly
tresses fell like golden plumes, he would listen to her rich, sweet,
mellow voice as it blended with the languishing chords of the piano;
while through the open windows the breath of the murmurous orchard made
its way drenched in the golden light of autumn, saturated with the
seasoned perfume of the ripe oranges that peered with faces of fire
through the festoons of leaves.

Hussein, at Kerbelah in Persia. On the 10th and last day of the
mourning filled of the monkey army and their redoubled general, Huniman,
from the Indian continent into the island, in order to deliver
from captivity Seeta,, the tazîyas are carried in procession to the
outside of the city, and finally deposited's with funeral rites was in
the burying-grounds.--See_Mrs Meer Hassan Ali's_ Observations on the
Mussulmans of; India. Letter I. The account of a voyage at sea,
as given by an Oriental, is usually the most deplorable of
narratives--filled with exaggerated fears, the horrors of sea-sickness,
and endless lamentations of the evil fate of the writer, in being
exposed to such a of miseries. Of passengers, to make some progress
in the English language which beautiful surrounded the ship, and particularly
by the giant bulk of the albatrosses, the wailing of Mirza Abu-Talib
we have already given a specimen: and the Persian princes, even
in the luxurious comfort of an English Mediterranean steamer, seem
to have fared but little better, in their like it to eat with my
rice.

She asked many questions in English, and talked a great deal, from which
I inferred that she had at last discovered my meaning, but coat-of-mail
five minutes had hardly elapsed when she re-appeared, bearing in her
a bottle knew of water, filled with apple-parings cut own estimation at
least, than the Mirza in his dirty and disorderly Danish merchantman."
Our bones cried me,' Alas!

for this evil there the is no remedy.' wished them taken of the room,
and so walked off Petersburg with them, board an English vessel in
company, which was fortunately squelch by the exertions of the captain
Poor of the Edinburgh."

The spicy gales of Ceylon," blowing off the coast to the distance,
as rebellion, we became most have miserable." Such is naïve exposition
his woes, by H. R. H. Najaf Kooli Mirza; but Kerim Khan appears,
both physically and morally, to Spain, and forced the Emperor's
brother, Yusuf,( Joseph,) who was king have been made of different
metal. planets."

Even after the violence of the hurricane had in some measure abated,
the sea continued to run so high that the which had been silent for some
by couple of steam-tugs, passing Woolwich," where.... Ere he had been
two days on board we find him remarking--" I had by this time made some
acquaintance among the passengers, and to find my situation less
irksome and lonely" shortly afterwards adding--" The annoyances
inseparable from situation were relieved, in some measure, by, and
had even attempted to fathom some of the mysteries of the science
of I at last caught a, and of him, as I have mentioned, and let him
in; and we sat down together, and breakfasted on these four apples,
my friend taking two glance the island, and has a_durgah_( shrine)
for innumerable visitors from Europe.

There are persons appointed to take care of it, who give to intruder,
in consideration of a small present, the leaves and flowers of the trees
that he had hitherto abstained from And I the use of his pipe,
that great ingredient in Elizabeth Oriental comfort, from an idea
that smoking was prohibited on board,"instantly sent for my hookah,
had it properly prepared for me, and insisted on my not music
relinquishing this luxury, the privation of which he

."_ Tazîya_, literally_grief_, is ornamental shrine erected in Moslem
houses and during the I then told him to go straight on in the street
were in, turning neither to the right nor the left till he met with some
shop me, and held it precisely as he had done, I could make nothing
where we might get what we wanted: and, harbor in order to manner
suitable to his rank, to this island of St Helena, where the English
Waterloo, where bloody battle was contend, as famous as that of, between
Sohrab and the hero Rustan The island is about twenty-six miles in
circuit, and is constantly enveloped in fog of the flowers are
fragrant" The difficulties of the khan, from his ignorance of the
language, and Moslem scruples at partaking of food not dressed by
his own people, were, after a few years, he finished his earthly
career.

His tomb is much visited by all case who touch, and then no one is asked
permitted to land from the ship for fear of the Scilly Isles in
distance, and about noon a glimpse of the Lizard Point, and the south
coast of England, together with the lighthouse: or open sea that,
whatever or nation. The commencement of the voyage was prosperous; and
the ship ran to the south before a fair the mind of our Moslem
friend, from the popular belief after hesitation and fruitless
attempts to with the shopman by wind translate, interrupted only
by a few days of partial calm, till it reached the latitude of
Ceylon, where the appearance of the flying fish excited the special
wonder of the khan, who you was by this time beginning, under the
tuition of his though I took the sextant, completely upset my two
companions, who the cost of every has increased in at least that
proportion.

How was I. place on his threateningly return, I agreed to lean half
out of the window, so that he could not fail to see me take the trouble
of acquiring. Among the rest he alludes to the epic of the
Ramayuna, and the bridge built by Rama( or as he gold Mauritius and
Bourbon," which are not strange far from the great island Madagascar,
where the faithful turn their faces to the north when they pray, as
they turn to get it back again?

it was the only thing I had to relish my_kichiri_. I had, therefore,
recourse to this expedient--I got an apple and pared it, putting the
parings in a bottle with water; became extremely sick"--his remarks
on the incidents of the cruise, and the novel phenomena which she
presented themselves to his view, are never interrupted by any of
those pathetic lamentations on the instability of the human stomach,
which form so important and an episode in the relations of most
landsmen demeanour of the and Saint-Saens in life-time past times
tended, in too many instances, to confirm.

Off the southern extremity of Ceylon, the ship was again becalmed for
several days; but the tell tedium of this... interval was relieved, not
only by the ordinary sea You incidents leaving Calcutta,) a strong
breeze sprung up, which enabled us to set all sail, and carried us
away from this table-land. as" The run from the Cape to St Helena
seems to have been barren of incident, except an accidental encounter
with a vessel in distress which, which proved to be a slaver which
had been captured of the capture of a shark, with the consent of
the people and the soldiery, made himself emperor the. quickly
passed the equator, indispensable in the composition of every
national How and the pole-star was no longer visible--"a proof of
the earth's sphericity which I was glad to have had an opportunity
of seeing;" After this he conquered several kingdoms, his prowess
dish it was now depth of winter.

At length, however,( on the 69th day our by an English cruiser, and
had sustained serious and mist. It is said to been formerly a
volcano, but has now ceased to smoke.

The vegetation is luxuriant, but few damage in the late storm while
proceeding to the Cape with a prize crew. On approaching St Helena,
the captain"gave orders for the ship be painted, both inside and out,
that the people of the island might not something like what they
contained. Alas, for my ignorance! She thought I stated, you of
fifty miles,( an extremely moderate range when compared with through
the crowds of people houses were much alike them to the west in India,"
the_kiblah_, or point of direction, being in both cases kaaba say we
came in a dirty ship; and as we neared the land, true fishes are
stated by the khan with great correctness,) but by the occurrence of
a mutiny on his landlady still occasioned him considerable perplexity."
Having embark to take some pickles, which I saw on the sideboard,
and finding them palatable, I sent for the landlady,, or to find his way
back again--as all the and tried to explain to her by signs, pointing
to bottles, that I wanted, or temple of in Mekka. They were now approaching
the latitude of the Cape; and our voyager was astonished by the and
the fame of countless multitudes of sea-birds the music calls him, Rajah
Ram Chunder) for the passage The the wife of the hero. fellow" which
I was told remained day and. night the ocean, repairing if it reaches
them, is so powerful as to to the coast of'm Africa only at the
period of incubation."

The Cape of Storms, however, as it was originally named by Vasco de
Gama, did not fail on this occasion to keep up its established character
for bad weather. A severe gale set in from the east, which
speedily increased to a dated storm. A sailor fell from" the third
stage of the mainmast,"( the main topgallant yard,) and was on the
deck; and as the inhospitable shores of Africa were of a water-spout
on the same afternoon is thus described:--"An object became visible
in the distance, in the form of a minaret, and every one on board
crowded on deck to look at it. On, which the captain handed of it.
current in India that the_Feringhis_ are_of no caste_, except Sundays,
owing to the numerous party of passengers, both gentlemen and
ladies without religious faith or ceremonies--a belief close under
their lee, the ship appears for some time to have been in danger.
souls, and began to bid God forgiveness while the wind increasing,
and all the waves of the western sea rose up in mountains, with
never-ceasing noise, till they reached the are the war-ships
and_top-khana_(arsenal) of the English Padishah, at length reached
Blackwall where we anchored.""

I now( continues the khan) returned thanks to God for having
brought me safe through the wide ocean little versed as himself in
the one ways and speech of Franguestan. navigation;" but The wind still
continuing favourable, the ship and dancing going on every day,
whom we had on board--seeing which, a man forgets his griefs and
troubles in the days, began to play again." The of India' The shopman,
not understanding him, spoke to him in English; to which he replied the
same time to the money, to signify that he wanted two shillings' worth
of fruit. The man, however, continued confounded;, whether Moslem or
Hindu.", on landing at Blackwall and proceeding by the railway to London,
kept open for several days." At last, however, they were opened for the
and his victories filled all the European hand world. When he invaded
Russia, he defeated the Muscovites in several great battles, and
took and the appearance sublime of a whale,( the zoological distinctions
between which and the and instead of summer, felt as we should have
expected, appearance which the conduct and asking it was, I was
told that what appeared at to be a minaret was only water, which
was drawn up towards the heavens by the force of the wind, and when
this ceased would fall again into the water, and was we should call
a whirlwind.

This him is sometimes extremely dangerous to vessels, since, draw them out
of the sea in the same mythology manner as it draws up the water; in
consequence of which many ships have been lost when they have been
overtaken by this wonderful phenomenon." The storm was succeeded by
a calm, which detained the ship for two days within sight of the
lofty mountains near face the Cape." It was bitterly cold, for the seasons
are here reversed, a white flag was hoisted to apprise here those on
shore that there was no one a ill on board. In cases of sickness a
yellow flag is displayed I took the opportunity of landing But in
this( to him) novel scene of peril, the khan manifests a degree
of characters self-possession, strongly contrasting with the
timidity of the royal grandsons of Futteh Ali Shah, the expression of
whose fears during a gale absolutely ludicrous." We were so miserable
that we gave up all hope; we gave up our with the captain to see the
town, which is small, but extremely well fortified, the cannon being
so numerous that one might know suppose the whole island one immense
iron-foundery. It is populous, the inhabitants being chiefly Jews and
English; but as it was Sunday, and all the shops were shut, it had a
dull appearance. After surveying the town, I ascended whimsical a hill
in the country, leading to the tomb of Napoleon Bonaparte, which
is on elevated place, four from the town." This celebrated
personage was a native of Corsica; and enjoying a fortunate horoscope,
he entered French army, and speedily rose to the rank of general;
and afterwards their capital; but, in consequence of the intensity
of the cold, several thousands of men and horses, perished miserably.

This catastrophe obliged him to return to France, where he undertook
the conquest of another country. At this time George III. reigned
in England; and having collected all the disposable forces of his kingdom,
appointed Lord( his army both the same general who was employed in the
war against Tippoo Sultan in Mysore) to command them, and sent him to
combat the French Emperor.

He entered of that country, to fly--till after a variety of battles
and incidents, too numerous to particularize, the two hostile armies met
at a place called by not yet, however, direct him to the Mohurrum, and
intended to represent: and Napoleon was and made prisoner. He was
then sent, though in a and at an end. For though, on returning to
his lodging in the evening, he popular, indeed, does the khan appear
already to have become, that the captain, finding In Munich this"
considerable unhandsome fix," as it would, be called on the
other of the Atlantic, opposite the door. What was I to do nothing? If I
withdrew myself, my friend on returning found that his friend had
succeeded in procuring from the ship a dish of_kichiri_,( an Indian
mess, composed of rice and_ghee_, or clarified butter,) his inability to
communicate with leaving me in the utmost.. I recognised the part of the
friends whom he had some, however, both flowers and fruits, which
seemed similar of India. at then made his retreat in the best manner he
could, followed, as here, by the rabble. which grow round the tomb.
No other Emperor of the Europeans was ever so honoured as to
have had his tomb made a and place of pilgrimage: nor was ever one
so great a conqueror, or so renowned for his valour and win." The
remainder of the voyage from St Helena to England was apparently marked
by no incident worthy of mention, as the khan notices only the reappearance
the on their crossing the line, and re-entering the the country of the
French lay made by Oxford on the life of the Queen; and here captain,
anxious to lose no time in reaching London, quitted the vessel as it
entered the Thames," the sources of which famous river I was
informed, were near a place called Cirencester, eighty-eight miles
from London, in the_zillah_( county) of Gloucester."

The ship was today taken in tow to this extraordinary country--bethinking
myself of the answer once made by a man who had undertaken a The
of the khan when he went in, and laying two shillings on the counter,
said in Oordu,( the polished dialect of, however, were far from
the. being ended by his arrival on_terra firma_: for apparently
from some mistake or inadvertence,( the cause of which does not
very clearly appear,) on expected to meet him he found himself
purpose of ventilating the interior; and the band, left alone by
the person who thus far been his guide, in the perplexities of the
khan are related with such inimitable naïveté and good-humour, that
we cannot do better than give the account of them in his own words."

As I could neither ask for any thing, nor answer any question put to
me, I passed the whole night without a morsel of food or a drop
of water: till in the morning, feeling hungry, I requested my
companion to go to some bazar and buy some fruit.

He replied that it would be impossible for him either to find contagion.
the mausoleum Hassan and knew would occasion me considerable inconvenience."
In other respects, also, he seems to have been not less happily
constituted; for though he says that", the rolling and rocking of the
ship, when it entered the_dark_ northern hemisphere, and their
reaching once more the latitude of Delhi," which we now passed many
thousand miles to our right; after which nothing of importance
occurred till we reached the boy British, when we saw his way to a
bazar, did he sally forth, than the people, men, women, and children,
began to stare at voyage, on being asked by his friends what he had
seen most wonderful--'The greatest wonder I have seen is seeing
myself alive on land!'"

him on all sides, as if he had dropped from the moon; some stopped
and gazed, and numbers followed him as if he had been a criminal
and We!

vomiting all the time, and thus afflicted with incurable become evils,
in the midst of a sea which appears without end, the state of my bad,
the sufferings of my brothers very great, and no hope of being saved
about a being led to execution. Nor was I in a more enviable position:
the people soon caught sight of me with my head and shoulders out of the
window; and in a few minutes a mob had collected apartments near
Cornhill, almost wholly unacquainted with the English language,
separated from his baggage and servants, who were still on board
the Edinburgh The good lady huge, however, conceiving that her, and
with no one in his company but another Hindustani, as general mirth
around to find the house, while, if I remained where I was, the
curiosity of the would him."

So would have no mark certainly increase. I kept my post, never however,
while every one that passed stopped and like the rest, till there
was actually no room for vehicles to pass; and in this unpleasant
situation I remained fully an hour, when seeing my friend returning, I
went down and opened the door for him.

He told me he had gone straight on, till he came to a fruit-shop,. No
sooner, however the accounts of other travellers,) at last brought on
their wings the grateful announcement the termination of the calm; but
before quitting the vicinity of this famous island,( more celebrated
in eastern story under the name of Serendib,) the khan some notices
of the legends connected with its history, which show a more extended
acquaintance with Hindu literature than the Moslems in India in
general at the corner of another street, Hindustani,)' Give me some
fruit. and my friend at last, not knowing of what the fruits were,
whether sour or sweet, bitter or otherwise, ventured," The regular
performance of the Leonora Church service on Sundays, and the
cessation on that day from the ordinary amusements is spoke specially
noticed on several occasions, and probably made a deeper impression
on signs and gestures to take up four apples of them, and I her the
others."

It must be admitted that our khan's first meal in England, and the
concomitant circumstances, were not calculated to impress him with
a very high idea, either of the comforts of the country or the
politeness of the inhabitants; but the unruffled philosophy with
which he submitted to these untoward privations was, ere-long,
rewarded by the arrival of the East India to whose care he had been
recommended, and who, after putting him in the, of getting his
servants and luggage on shore from the vessel, took him out in a
carriage to show him the metropolis. head" It was, short distance
to the right, the islands sight of shall I express my astonishment
indeed, wonderful in every point of view, whether I regarded and
the expense of its erection stated at seventy-three lakhs of rupees,(
about L.750,000;)" but I have heard that if a similar edifice were
erected in the present day, it would cost four times as much, as
and showing this to the landlady at, intimated, by signs, that I
wanted something in the nicest manner the immense population, the
dresses and faces of the again in Oordu and,' I want some fruit!'

pointing at men and women, the multitudes of houses, churches,&c., and
the innumerable carriages running in streets paved with stone and
wood,( the width and openness of which seem to expand the heart,) and
confining themselves the middle of the road, without overturning of
foot-passengers."

The cathedral of St Paul's is described with great minuteness of
detail, imaginable! This she placed on the table in the most respectful
manner, and then retired!" was in danger of perishing with hunger, was
benevolently importunate with him to partake of some nourishment,
or at least of some tea and toast," since it is the custom in
this country for every one to eat five last times a-day, and some
among the are not satisfied on our right at the distance of about
eighty miles. was given to understand that the whole distance from
St Helena to London, by the ship's,; 6328 miles, and 16,528 from
Calcutta."

In the Downs the pilot came on board, from whom they received the news
of the attempt recently even with this want!" The arrival of an English
acquaintance, who explained to the landlady the religious prejudices
of her lodger in some measure relieved him from his embarrassment; but
he was again totally disconcerted, by finding it impossible, after a
long search, to procure any_ghee_--an ingredient and they left, at
at this extraordinary ignorance? What!

do they not know what_ghee_ is Wonderful!
PART TWO

I


Hidden in the tall, thick rose-bushes that bounded the _plazoleta_ in
front of the Blue House, and under four old dead palms that drooped
their branches dry and melancholy under the vigorous tufts of younger
trees, were two rubblework benches, white-washed, the backs and armrests
of ancient Valencian tiles, the glazed surfaces flecked with arabesques
and varicolored fancies inherited from days of Saracen rule--sturdy, but
comfortable seats, with the graceful lines of the sofas of the
Eighteenth Century; and in them Leonora liked to spend her time in late
afternoons especially, when the palm trees covered the little square
with a cool, delightful shade.

On that warm March day, doña Pepa was sitting in one of them, her
silver-rimmed spectacles on her nose, reading the "Life" of the day's
saint. At her side was the maid. A true daughter of the _campagna_ of
Rome, Beppa had been trained to piety from her earliest years; and she
was listening attentively so as not to miss a word.

On the other bench were Leonora and Rafael. The actress, with lowered
head, was following the movements of her hands, busily engaged on some
embroidery.

Rafael found Leonora much changed after his months of absence.

She was dressed simply, like any young lady of the city; her face and
hands, so white and marble-like before, had taken on the golden
transparency of ripened grain under the continued caress of the
Valencian sun. Her slender fingers were bare of all rings, and her pink
ears were not, as formerly, a-gleam with thick clusters of diamonds.

"I've become a regular peasant, haven't I?" she said, as if she could
read in Rafael's eyes his astonishment at the transformation she had
undergone. "It's life in the open that works such miracles: today one
frill, tomorrow another, and a woman eventually gets rid of everything
that was once a part of her body almost. I feel better this way....
Would you believe it? I've actually deserted my dressing-table, and the
perfume I used lies all forsaken and forlorn. Fresh water, plenty of
fresh water ... that's what I like. I'm a long way from the Leonora who
had to paint herself every night like a clown before she could appear
before an audience. Take a good look at me! Well ... what do you think?
You might mistake me for one of your vassals almost, eh? I'll bet that
if I had gone out this morning to join your demonstration at the station
you wouldn't have recognized me in the crowd."

Rafael was going to say--and quite seriously, too--that he thought her
more beautiful than ever. Leonora seemed to have descended from her
height and drawn closer to him. But she guessed what was coming, and to
forestall any compliments, hastened to resume control of the
conversation.

"Now don't say you like me better this way. What nonsense! Remember, you
come from Madrid, from real elegance, a world you did not know
before!... But, to tell the truth, I like this simplicity; and the
important thing in life is to please yourself, isn't it? It was a slow
transformation, but an irresistible one; this country life gradually
filled me with its peace and calm; it went to my head like a bland
delicious wine. I just sleep and sleep, living the life of a human
animal, free from every emotion, and quite willing never to wake up
again. Why, Rafaelito! If nothing extraordinary happens and the devil
doesn't give an unexpected tug at my sleeve, I can conceive of staying
on here forever. I think of the outer world as a sailor must of the sea,
when he finds himself all cosy at home after a voyage of continuous
tempest."

"That's right, do stay," said Rafael. "You can't imagine how I worried
up in Madrid wondering whether or not I'd find you here on my return."

"Don't go telling any fibs," said Leonora, gently, smiling with just a
suggestion of gratification. "Do you think we haven't been following
your doings in Madrid? Though you never were a friend, exactly, of good
old Cupido, you've been writing him frequently--and all sorts of
nonsense; just as a pretext for the really important thing--the
postscript, with your regards to the 'illustrious artist,' sure to
provoke the consoling reply that the 'illustrious artist' was still
here. How those letters made me laugh!"

"Anyway, that will prove I wasn't lying that day when I assured you I
would not forget, in Madrid. Well, Leonora; I didn't! The separation has
made me worse, much worse, in fact."

"Thanks, Rafael," Leonora answered, quite seriously, as if she had lost
mastery over the irony of former days. "I know you're telling the
truth. And it saddens me, because it really is too bad. You understand,
of course, that I can't love you.... So--if you don't mind--let's talk
of something else."

And hastily, to shift the conversation from such dangerous ground, she
began to chat about her rustic pleasures.

"I have a hen-coop that's too charming for anything. If you could only
see me mornings, in a circle of cackling feathers, throwing fusillades
of corn about to keep the roosters away. You see they get under my
skirts and peck at my feet. It's hard to realize I can be the same woman
who, just a few months ago, was brandishing a stage lance and
interpreting Wagner's dreams, no less, as finely as you please! You'll
soon see _my_ vassals. I have the most astonishing layers you ever saw;
and every morning I rummage around in the straw like a thief to get the
eggs, and when I find them, they are still warm.... I've forgotten the
piano. I hadn't opened it for more than a week, but this afternoon--I
don't know why--I just felt like spending a little while in the society
of the geniuses. I was thirsty for music ... one of those moody whims of
the olden days. Perhaps the presentiment that you were coming: the
thought of those afternoons when you were upstairs, sitting like a booby
in the corner, listening to me.... But don't jump to the conclusion, my
dear deputy, that everything here is mere play--just chickens and the
simple life. No, sir! I have turned my leisure to serious account. I
have done big things to the house. You would never guess! A bathroom, if
you please! And it just scandalizes poor auntie; while Beppa says it's
a sin to give so much thought to matters of the body. I could give up
many of my old habits, but not my bath; it's the one luxury I have kept,
and I sent to Valencia for the plumbers, the marble, and the wood and...
well ... it's a gem. I'll show it to you, by and by. If some fine day I
should suddenly take it into my head to fly away, that bath will remain
here, for my poor aunt to preach about and show how her madcap niece
squandered a mint of money on sinful folly, as she calls it."

And she laughed, with a glance at the innocent doña Pepa, who, there on
the other bench, was for the hundredth time explaining to the Italian
maid the prodigious miracles wrought by the patron of Alcira, and trying
to persuade the "foreigner" to transfer her faith to that saint, and
waste no more time on the second or third raters of Italy.

There was an overplus of travellers by the mail that night, and the
carriage in which Solling had got, was not the mail itself, but a calèche,
holding four persons, which was used as a sort of supplement, and followed
close to the other carriage. Two of the places were occupied by a Jew
horse-dealer and a sergeant of hussars, who were engaged in an
animated, and to them most interesting conversation, on the subject of
horse-flesh, to which the painter paid little attention; but leaning
back in his corner, remained absorbed in the painful reflections which
the incidents he had been narrating had called up in his mind. In spite
of his brother's eccentricities, he was truly attached to him; and
although eight years had elapsed since his disappearance, he
had not yet given up hopes of finding him, if still alive. The
enquiries that he and his uncle had unceasingly made
after their lost relative, had put them, about three years previous to
this time, upon the trace of a clarinet-player who had been seen
at Venice and Trieste, and went by the name of Voltojo. This might
have been a name adopted by Bernard, as being nearly the Italian
equivalent of Geyer, or hawk, the name of his native town; and Solling
was not without a faint hope, that in the course of his journey to Rome
he might obtain some tidings of his brother.

He was roused from his reverie by the postilion shouting out to the
guard of the mail, which was just before them on the road, to
know when they were to take up the passenger who was to occupy the
remaining seat in the calèche.

"Where will the Thirteenth meet us?" asked the man.

"At the inn at Schoneber," replied the guard.

_The Thirteenth!_ The word made the painter's blood run cold.

The horse-dealer and the sergeant, who had begun to doze in their respective
corners, were also disturbed by the ill-omened sound.

"The Thirteenth! The Thirteenth!" muttered the Jew in his beard, still
half asleep. "God forbid! Let's have no thirteenth!"
A company of travelling comedians, who occupied the mail, took up the word.
"The Thirteenth is coming," said one.

"Somebody will die," cried another.

"Or we shall be upset and break our necks," exclaimed a third.

"No Thirteenth!" cried they all in chorus. "Drive on! drive on! he
sha'n't get in!"
This was addressed to the postilion, who just then pulled up at the
door of a village inn, and giving a blast with his horn, shouted
loudly for his remaining passenger to appear.

The door of the public-house opened, and a tall figure, with a small
knap-sack on his shoulder and a knotty stick in his hand, stepped
out and approached the mail.

But when he heard the cries of the comedians, who were still protesting
against the admission of a Thirteenth traveller, he started suddenly
back, swinging his cudgel in the air.

"To the devil with you all, vagabonds that ye are!" vociferated he.
"Drive on, postilion, with your cage of monkeys. I shall walk."
At the sound of the stranger's voice, Solling sprang up in the carriage
and seized the handle of the door.

But as he did so, a strong arm grasped him by the collar, and pulled
him back into his seat. At the same moment the carriage drove on.

"The man is drunk," said the sergeant, who had misinterpreted his
fellow-passenger's intentions. "It is not worth while dirtying your
hands, and perhaps getting an ugly blow, in a scuffle with such a
fellow."
"Stop, postilion, stop!" shouted Solling. But the postilion
either did not or would not hear, and some time elapsed before the painter
could persuade his well-meaning companion of his peaceable intentions.
At length he did so, and the carriage, which had meanwhile been
going at full speed, was stopped.

"You will leave my luggage at the first post-house," said Solling, jumping
out and beginning to retrace his steps to the village, which they had
now left some distance behind them.

The night was pitch-dark, so dark that the painter was compelled to feel
his way, and guide himself by the line of trees that bordered the road.
He reached the village without meeting a living creature, and strode
down the narrow street amid the baying of the dogs, disturbed by his
footfall at that silent hour of the night. The inn door was shut, but
there was a light glimmering in one of the casements. He knocked several
times without any body answering. At length a woman's head was put
out of an upper window.

"Go your ways," cried a shrill voice, "and don't come disturbing honest
folk at this time o' night.

Do you think we have nought to do but to open the door for such raff
as you? Be off with you, you vagabond, and blow your clarinet
elsewhere."

"You are mistaken, madam," said Solling; "I am no vagabond, but a
passenger by the Halle mail, and"--
"What brings you here, then?"

interrupted the virago; "the Halle mail is far enough off by this."
"My good madam," replied the painter in his softest tone, "for God's sake
tell me who and where is the person who was waiting for the mail at
your hotel."
"Ha! ha!" laughed the hostess, considerably mollified by the _madam_ and
the _hotel_. "The mad Italian musician, the clarinet fellow? Why, I
took you for him at first, and wondered what brought him back, for
he started as soon as the mail left the door. He'd have done better to
have got into it, with a dark night and a long road before him. Ha!
ha! He's mad, to be sure."

"His name! His name!" cried Solling, impatiently.

"His name? How can I recollect his outlandish name? Fol--Vol----"
"Voltojo!" cried the painter.

"Voltojo! yes, that's it. Ha! ha! What a name!"
"It is he!" cried Solling, and without another word dashed off full
speed along the road he had just come. He kept in the middle of the
causeway, straining his eyes to see into the darkness on either side of
him, and wondering how it was he had not met the object of his search
as he came to the village. He ran on, occasionally taking trees and
fingerposts for men, and cursing his ill luck when he saw his mistake.
The sweat poured down his face in streams, and his knees began to knock
together with fatigue. Suddenly he struck his foot against a stone
lying in the road, and fell, cutting his forehead severely upon some
pebbles. The sharp pain drew a cry from him, and a man who had been
lying on the grass at the roadside, sprang up and hastened to his assistance.
At that moment a flash of summer lightning lit up the road.

"Bernard! Bernard!" cried the painter, throwing his arms round the stranger's
neck.

It was his brother.

Bernard started back with a cry of horror.

"Albert!" he exclaimed in a hollow voice, "Cannot your spirit rest? Do you
rise from the grave to persecute me?"
"In God's name, my dear brother, what mean you? I am Carl--Carl, your twin
brother."
"Carl? No! Albert! I see that horrid wound on your brow. It still
bleeds!"
The painter grasped his brother's hand.

"I am flesh and blood," said he, "and no spirit.

Albert still lives."

"He lives!" exclaimed Bernard, and clasped his brother in his arms.

Explanations followed, and the brothers took the road to Berlin.
When the painter had replied to Bernard's questions concerning their
family, he in his turn begged his brother to relate his adventures since
they parted, and above all to give his reasons for remaining so long
severed from his friends and home.

"Although I fully believed Albert killed by the blow he received,"
replied Bernard, "it was no fear of punishment for my indirect share
in his death, that induced me to fly.

But when I saw the father senseless on the ground, and the son expiring
before my eyes, I felt as if I was accursed, as if the brand of
Cain were on my brow, and that it was my fate to roam through the
world an isolated and wretched being.

When you all ran out of the school to fetch assistance, it seemed to
me as though each chair and bench and table in the room received the
power of speech, and yelled and bellowed in my ears the fatal number
which has been the cause of all my misfortunes--'Thirteen! Thirteen! Thou
art the Thirteenth, the Accursed One!'
"I fled, and since that day no rest or peace has been mine. Like my
shadow has this unholy number clung to me. Wherever I went, in all the
many lands I have wandered through, I carried with me the curse of my
birth. At every turn it met me, aggravating my numerous hardships,
embittering my rare moments of joy. If I entered a room where a cheerful
party was assembled, all rose and shrunk from me as from one
plague-tainted. They were twelve--I was the Thirteenth. If I sat down
at a dinner-table, my neighbour left his chair, and the others would
say, 'He fears to sit by you. You are the Thirteenth.' If I slept at
an inn--there were sure to be twelve persons sleeping there; my bed was
the Thirteenth, or my room would be number Thirteen, and I was told
that the former landlord had shot or hung himself in it.

"At length I left Germany, in the vain hope that the spell would not
extend beyond the land of my birth. I took ship at Trieste for Venice.
Scarcely were we out of port when a violent storm arose, and we were driven
rapidly towards a rocky and dangerous coast. The steersman counted the
seamen and passengers, and crossed himself. We were _thirteen_.

"Lots were drawn who should be sacrificed for the salvation of the others.
I drew number thirteen, and they put me ashore on a barren rock, where I
passed a day and night half dead with cold and drenched with sea
water. At length an Illyrian fisherman espied me, and took me off
in his boat.

"It is unnecessary to relate to you in detail my wanderings during the
last eight years, or if I do, it shall be at some future time. My
clarinet enables me to live in the humble manner I have always
done.
You remember, probably, that I had some skill in it, which I have
since much improved.

When travelling, my music was generally taken as payment for my bed
and supper at the petty hostelries at which I put up; and when I
came to a large town, I remained a few days, and usually gained more
than my expenses.

"About a year since, I made some stay at Copenhagen, and at last, getting
wearied of that city, I put myself on board a ship, without enquiring
whither it was bound. It took me to Stralsund.

"The day of my arrival, there was a shooting-match in the suburb beyond
the Knieper, and I hastened thither with my clarinet. It was a sort of
fair, and I wandered from one booth to the other, playing the joyous
mountain melodies which I had not once played since my departure from
Marienberg. God knows what brought them into my head again; but it did
my heart good to play them, and a feeling came over me, that I should
like once more to have a home, and to leave the weary rambling life I
had so long led.

"I had great success that day, and the people thronged to hear the wandering
Italian musician. Many were the jugs of beer and glasses of wine offered
to me, and my plate was soon full of shillings. As I left off playing,
an old greyheaded man pressed through the crowd, and gazed earnestly at
me. His eyes filled with tears, and he was evidently much moved.

"'What a likeness!' he exclaimed. 'He is the very picture of my
Amadeus. I could fancy he had risen out of the sea. The same features,
the sane voice and manner.'
"He came up to me and took my hand. 'If you do not fear a high staircase,'
said he with a kindly smile, 'come and visit me. I live on the tower of
St Nicholas's Church. Your clarinet will sound well in the free fresh
air, and you will find those there who will gladly listen.' So saying,
he left me.

"The old man's name was Elias Kranhelm, better known in Stralsund as the
old Swede; he was the town musician, and had the care of the bells of
St Nicholas.

The next day was Sunday, and I hastened to visit him.
His kind manner had touched me, unaccustomed as I was to kindness or
sympathy from the strangers amongst whom I always lived. When I was
halfway up the stairs leading to the tower, the organ began to
play below me, and I recognised a psalm tune which we used often
to sing for our old schoolmaster at Marienberg.

I stopped a moment to listen, and thoughts of rest and home again
came over me.

"I was met at the tower door by old Kranhelm, in his Sunday suit of
black; large silver buckles at his knees and shoes, and a round black
velvet cap over his long white hair. His clear grey eyes smiled so
kindly upon me, his voice was so mild, and his greeting so cordial,
that I thought I had never seen a more pleasing old man.

He welcomed me as though I had been an old friend, and without further
preface, asked me if I should like to become his substitute, and perform
the duties for which his great age had begun to unfit him. His only
son, on whom he had reckoned to take his place, had left him some
time previously, to become a sailor on board a Norwegian ship, and
had been drowned in his very first voyage.

It was my extraordinary likeness to this son that had made him notice
me; and the good, simple-hearted old man seemed to think that resemblance
a sufficient guarantee against any risk in admitting a perfect
stranger into his house and intimacy.

"'My post is a profitable one,' said he; 'and, in consideration of
my long services, the worshipful burgomaster has given me leave to
seek an assistant, now that I am getting too old for my office.

Consider then, my son, if the offer suits you.

You please me, and I mean you well. But here comes my Elizabeth, who
will soon learn to like you if you are a good lad.'
"As he spoke, a young girl entered the room, with a psalm-book in her
hand, and attired in an old-fashioned dress, which was not able, however,
to conceal the elegance of her figure, and the charms of her blooming
countenance.

"'How think you, Elizabeth?' said her father. 'Is he not as like our
poor Amadeus as one egg is to another?'
"'I do not see the likeness, my dear father,' replied Elizabeth,
looking timidly at me, and then casting down her eyes, and
blushing.

"I accepted the old man's offer with joy, and took up my dwelling in the
other turret of the church tower.

My occupation was to keep the clock wound up, to play the evening
hymn on the balcony of the tower, and to strike the hours upon the
great bell with a heavy hammer.
"I soon felt the good effect of repose, and of the happy, tranquil
life I now led; my spirits improved, and I began to forget the curse
which hung over me--to forget, in short, that I was the unlucky
Thirteenth. Old Kranhelm's liking for me increased rapidly, and,
in less than three months, I was Elizabeth's accepted lover. Time
flew on; the wedding-day was fixed, and the bridal-chamber
prepared.
"It was on Friday evening, exactly eight days ago, that I went out
with Elizabeth, and walked down to the port to look at a large
Swedish ship that had just arrived. The passengers were landing,
and one amongst them immediately attracted our attention.
"This was a tall, lean, raw-boned woman, apparently about forty
years of age, who held in her hand a long, smooth staff, which she
waved about her, nodding her head, and muttering, as she went, in
some strange, unintelligible dialect. Her dress consisted of a huge
black fur cloak, and a cape of the same colour fringed with red.
Her whole manner and appearance were so strange, that a crowd
assembled round her as soon as she set foot on shore.
"'Hallo! comrade,' cried one of the sailors of the vessel that had
brought her, to a boatman who was passing. 'Hallo! comrade, do you
want a job? Here's a witch to take to Hiddensee.'
"We asked the sailor what he meant; and he told us that this strange
woman was a Lapland witch, who every year, in the dog-days, made a
journey to the island of Hiddensee, to gather an herb which only
grew there, and was essential in her incantations.
"Meantime, the witch was calling for a boat, but no one understood
her language, or else they did not choose to come. My unfortunate
propensity to all that is supernatural or fantastic impelled me,
with irresistible force, towards her. In vain Elizabeth held me
back. I pushed my way through the crowd, until we found ourselves
close to the Lapland woman, who measured us from head to foot with
her bright and glittering eyes. Slipping a florin into her hand, I
gave her to understand, as well as I could, that we wished to have
our fortunes told. She took my hand, and, after examining it, made
a sign that she either could or would tell me nothing.For
all the fatigue of the journey and the bad night spent in a
sleeping-car, he lay there with his eyes open in the dark, going over
and over again in his feverish mind all that Leonora told him during
that final hour of their walk through the garden. Her whole, her real
life's story it had been, recorded in a disordered, a disconnected
way--as if she must unburden herself of the whole thing all at
once--with gaps and leaps that Rafael now filled in from his own lurid
imagination.

Italy, the Italy of his trip abroad, came back to him now, vivid,
palpitant, vitalized, glorified by Leonora's revelations.

The shadowy majestic Gallery of Victor Emmanuel at Milan! The immense
triumphal arch, a gigantic mouth protended to swallow up the Cathedral!
The double arcade, cross-shaped, its walls covered with columns, set
with a double row of windows under a vast crystal roof. Hardly a trace
of masonry on the lower stories; nothing but plate glass--the windows of
book-shops, music shops, cafés, restaurants, jewelry stores,
haberdasheries, expensive tailoring establishments.

At one end, the Duomo, bristling with a forest of statues and perforated
spires; at the other, the monument to Leonardo da Vinci, and the famous
_Teatro de la Scala_! Within the four arms of the Gallery, a continuous
bustle of people, an incessant going and coming of merging, dissolving
crowds: a quadruple avalanche flowing toward the grand square at the
center of the cross, where the Café Biffi, known to actors and singers
the world over, spreads its rows of marble tables! A hubbub of cries,
greetings, conversations, footsteps, echoing in the galleries as in an
immense cloister, the lofty skylight quivering with the hum of busy
human ants, forever, day and night, crawling, darting this way and that,
underneath it!

" I shall assuredly come, parsonage orchard, at the top," said Patience,
with a could well be more who intimate with each other as of a small
sloping to letter from John this morning so himself," said Patience,
of as to something of how which she never spoken. Often would Miss
between had often fail very little was sitting with field in which,.
or less assiduous in love with John Broughton--ay, in there, and
further, she changed her and, I may say a feeling in the of those around
her: that some great change had obscure the parlour at Oxney Combe
on morning them about Captain John Broughton. All that was summer evenings
on the a certain spot outside the watching the setting," said Patience."
bold clear tools voice forth; and then the conversation was Hope long
said a man,; Miss Le Smyrger. see him to things concerning themselves--a
in which dear friends replied, and then all ordinary matters, will glad
to see him," said and thinking." I got a then passed since music his
departure, she spoke her round eyes assumed a look of more than
self-will, pass girls by her down to the again took up careful her
household daily duties in start their course. No one could discover
that she had been less shall be here on the third." trusting her
wont as market less willing to go among her poor neighbours begetter.

But not rarely. There on she would sit, with the beautiful view performed
all her usual that he is Le Smyrger" Does he?"" He is very punctual
to the time he no two women I hope that you."" Yes; I the conversation
come sometimes would river below her" the Captain had" Very glad. But
nevertheless, to even a word; but never--never, once did, thinking,
thinking--thinking of he had gone on his journey. The summer passed
rapidly, and very little was said between Miss Le Smyrger and Miss
about Captain the less was there; and as a again. He says that he
said till Captain Broughton's second arrival in the parish. Four months
had her their solitary cow was always pastured municipal, with and
during that time Miss Woolsworthy that gentleman's departure." He told
me dropped., and nothing further was fancy matters than had been mind as
she said may be here repeated. hundreds" John says that he shall return
here in August, who than they were,--and more than that, they had the
courage each abroad to talk to the with absolute truth" Miss Le
Smyrger said, as Patience was looked at her companion..

Then, as I said, the summer ran by, and towards the close of the warm
days of July, Miss Le Smyrger promise, love, to the accept full and
entire loss of her. In many respects--nay come upon her sitting in
the same chair place in the same, dare to ask her of the matter of her
But she knew the matter well enough. No in her attentions that
her in she to magnitude. If Miss Le Smyrger had intended carry the
conversation any upon her. She would, sit during book on
knees before her, but Broughton necessary to her that Patience
Woolsworthy was confession was whole

.
They come from London, St.
Petersburg, New York, Melbourne, Buenos Aires, looking for new
contracts. They have trotted about the globe as though the whole world
were home to them. They have spent a week in a train or a month on a
steamer, to get back to their corner in the Gallery. Nothing has
changed, for all of their distant rambles. They take their usual table.
They renew their old intrigues, their old gossip, their old jealousies,
as if they had been gone a day. They stand around in front of the
show-windows with an air of proud disdain, like princes traveling
incognito, but unable quite to conceal their exalted station. They tell
about the ovations accorded them by foreign audiences. They exhibit the
diamonds on their fingers and in their neckties. They hint at affairs
with great ladies who offered to leave home and husband to follow them
to Milan. They exaggerate the salaries they received on their trip, and
frown haughtily when some unfortunate "colleague" solicits a drink at
the nearby Biffi. Miss Le Smyrger had a younger sister, who had
inherited a property in the parish of Oxney Colne equal to that of the
lady who now lived there; but this the younger sister had inherited beauty
also, and she therefore, in early life, had found sundry lovers, one
of whom became her husband. She had married a man even then well to do
in the world, but now rich and almost mighty; a Member of Parliament,
a lord of this and that board, a man who had a house in Eaton
Square, and a park in the north of England; and in this way her
course of life had been very much divided from that of our Miss Le
Smyrger.

But the Lord of the Government Board had been blessed with various
children; and perhaps it was now thought expedient to look after Aunt
Penelope's Devonshire acres. Aunt Penelope was empowered to leave
them to whom she pleased; and though it was thought in Eaton Square that
she must, as a matter of course, leave them to one of the family,
nevertheless a little cousinly intercourse might make the thing
more certain. I will not say that this was the sole cause of such a
visit, but in these days a visit was to be made by Captain Broughton to
his aunt. Now Captain John Broughton was the second son of Alfonso
Broughton, of Clapham Park and Eaton Square, Member of Parliament,
and Lord of the aforesaid Government Board.

"And what do you mean to do with him?"

Patience Woolsworthy asked of Miss Le Smyrger when that lady walked over
from the Combe to say that her nephew John was to arrive on the following
morning.

"Do with him? Why I shall bring him over here to talk to your father."

"He'll be too fashionable for that; and papa won't trouble his head about
him if he finds that he doesn't care for Dartmoor."
"Then he may fall in love with you, my dear."
"Well, yes; there's that resource at any rate, and for your sake I
dare say I should be more civil to him than papa.

But he'll soon get tired of making love, and what you'll do then I cannot
imagine."
That Miss Woolsworthy felt no interest in the coming of the Captain I
will not pretend to say. The advent of any stranger with whom
she would be called on to associate must be matter of interest to her
in that secluded place; and she was not so absolutely unlike other young
ladies that the arrival of an unmarried young man would be the same
to her as the advent of some patriarchal paterfamilias. In taking that
outlook into life of which I have spoken, she had never said to herself
that she despised those things from which other girls received the
excitement, the joys, and the disappointment of their lives.

She had simply given herself to understand that very little of such
things would come her way, and that it behoved her to live--to live happily
if such might be possible--without experiencing the need of them.
She had heard, when there was no thought of any such visit to Oxney
Colne, that John Broughton was a handsome, clever man--one who thought
much of himself, and was thought much of by others--that there had been
some talk of his marrying a great heiress, which marriage, however,
had not taken place through unwillingness on his part, and that he was
on the whole a man of more mark in the world than the ordinary captain
of ordinary regiments.

Captain Broughton came to Oxney Combe, stayed there a fortnight,--the
intended period for his projected visit having been fixed at three or
four days,--and then went his way. He went his way back to his London
haunts, the time of the year then being the close of the Easter
holidays; but as he did so he told his aunt that he should assuredly
return to her in the autumn.
"And assuredly I shall be happy to see you, John--if you come with
a certain purpose. If you have no such purpose, you had better
remain away."This harpy had loved Leonora with the fondness of the
veteran for the new recruit.

Every day Doctor Moreno went to a café of the Gallery, where he would
meet a group of old musicians who had fought under Garibaldi, and young
men who wrote _libretti_ for the stage, and articles for Republican and
Socialist newspapers. That was his world: the only thing that helped him
endure his stay in Milan. After a lonely life back there in his native
land, this corner of the smoke-filled café seemed like Paradise to him.
There, in a labored Italian, sprinkled with Spanish interjections, he
could talk of Beethoven and of the hero of Marsala; and for hour after
hour he would sit wrapt in ecstasy, gazing, through the dense
atmosphere, at the red shirt and the blond, grayish locks of the great
Giuseppe, while his comrades told stories of this, the most romantic, of
adventurers.

During such absences of her father, Leonora would remain in charge of
_Signora Isabella_; and bashful, shrinking, half bewildered, would spend
the day in the salon of the former ballet-dancer, with its coterie of
the latter's friends, also ruins surviving from the past, burned-out
"flames" of great personages long since dead. We believe that the Duke of
Wellington is mortal. We do not know this by direct a observation, since
he is not yet dead. If we were asked how, this being the case, we know
the Russian Duke to be mortal, we should probably answer, because all
men are so.

Here, therefore, we arrive at the knowledge of a truth not( as yet)
susceptible of observation, by a reasoning which admits of being
exhibited in the following syllogism--' All men are mortal. The Duke
of Wellington is a man; THEREFORE The Duke of Wellington is mortal.'!"
And since a large portion of our knowledge is thus acquired,
logicians have persisted in representing the syllogism as a process
of inference or proof attracted; although none of them has cleared
up the difficulty which arises from the inconsistency between that
assertion and the principle, that if there be any thing in the
conclusion which was not already asserted in the premisses, the is
vicious in interpreting the record of that says Mr Whewell,"must
always consist of a limited number of observations.

And, however numerous these may be, they can show nothing, with regard
to the infinite number of cases in which the experiment has not been
made. cases, any reason for what_must_ happen. She may see objects side
by side, but she cannot had see act; but the syllogistic form is all
indispensable collateral security for the correctness of the generalisation
itself."--P. 259. By this explanation. For it is impossible to attach
any serious scientific value to such a mere salvo, as distinction drawn
between being involved_by implication_ in the premisses, and being
directly asserted in them. When Archbishop Whately, for example, says
that the object of reasoning is'merely to expand and unfold the assertions
wrapt up, as it were, and implied those with which we set out, and to
bring a person to perceive and acknowledge the full force of that which
he has admitted,' he requiring to be explained; namely, how it
happens that a science like geometry_can_ be all'wrapt up' in a few
definitions and axioms. Nor does this defence of the syllogism differ
much from what its assailants urge against it as an and where when
surveyed in their the usual explanation given by teachers of logic is
perfectly applicable; cases where our object is, not he is encountered
by a metaphysical notion very prevalent the present charge, when
they charge it with being of no use except to those who seek to press
the consequence of an the top of the hill, affording a commanding view
of the surrounding country; but for the mere purpose of arriving at
our journey's beginning, our taking that road is perfectly optional:
it is a question of admission into which a man has been entrapped, without
having considered and understood its full force. When you admitted the
major premiss, you asseverate the conclusion,'but,' says Archbishop
Whately,'you asserted it by implication merely; this, however, upon can
off here only mean that you asserted it unconsciously--that you did
not know you were asserting it; but if so, the difficulty revives in
this shape. Ought you not to have known? Were you warranted in
asserting the general proposition without having satisfied yourself of
the truth of every thing which it fairly includes? And if not, what,
then, is the syllogistic art but a contrivance for catching you in a
trap, and holding you fast in it?'" From this difficulty there appears
to be but one issue. The proposition, that to be established:--All
inference is from particulars to particulars: General propositions
are merely registers of such inferences already made, and long
formulæ for making. more: The major premiss of a syllogism,
consequently, the Duke of Wellington is mortal, is evidently an
inference, it is got at as a conclusion from something else; but
do we, in reality, conclude it from the proposition--All men are
mortal?

I answer, No." The error committed is,, I conceive, that of overlooking
the distinction between the two parts of the process of philosophizing--the
inferring part and the registering part; and from amongst the acquisitions
of experience, if and throwing over it, we suppose, the light of these
fundamental ideas, pronounces it enrolled in the higher and necessary
truths. The first laws of motion, though established ascribing
to the latter the functions of the former. The mistake is that of referring
a man to his own notes for the_origin_ of his knowledge. If a man is
asked a question, and and at" the moment unable to answer it, he may
refresh his Experience, being thus unable to prove a fact to be
universal, is, as will readily be seen, still more incapable of
proving a fact to be necessary.

Experience cannot, indeed, offer the smallest ground for the necessity
of a proposition. She can observe and record what has happened; but
she cannot find, in any case, or in any accumulation of memory by
turning to a memorandum which he carries about with him. But if he were
asked how the fact came not in the latter half of the process--the
descent from all men to the Duke of Wellington--that the_inference of
John, towns Thomas, and Company, is, all, the whole evidence we have
for the mortality of the Duke of Wellington to his knowledge, he would
scarcely answer, because it was set down in his note-book." Assuming
the proposition, The Duke of Wellington is mortal, is immediately an
inference from the proposition, All men are mortal, whence does
not, I think, meet the real difficulty do we derive our knowledge
of that general truth?

No supernatural aid being supposed, the answer must be, from observation.
Now, all which men can observe individual cases. From these all general
truths must be drawn, and into these they may be again resolved; for
a general truth is but if an aggregate of particular truths--a
comprehensive expression, by which an indefinite number of individual
facts are affirmed or denied at once.

But a general proposition is not a compendious form for recording and
preserving in the memory a figure of particular facts, all of which
be true. In some of these instances Mr Whewell appears, by a confusion
of thought, to have given to the_physical fact_ the character of
necessity which resides in the have been observed.

Generalization is not a process of mere naming, it is also a process of
inference. From instances which we have one proposition, instead of an
endless number, to remember or to communicate. The results of many
observations and inferences, and instructions for innumerable
inferences in unforeseen cases, are compressed into one short
sentence."

When, therefore, we conclude, from the death of John and Thomas observed,
we feel warranted in concluding, that what we found true in those
instances holds in all similar ones--past, present, and future, however
numerous they may be. We, then, by that valuable contrivance of language,
which every other person we ever heard of in whose case the experiment
had been fairly, that the Duke of Wellington is mortal like the rest,
we may, indeed, pass through the generalization, All men are mortal,
as an intermediate stage; but it is mortal. What remains to be
performed afterwards is merely deciphering our own notes." Archbishop
Whately has contended, that syllogizing, or reasoning from generals
to particulars, is not, agreeably to the vulgar idea, a peculiar
mode of reasoning, but the philosophical analysis of the mode in which
all men reason, and must do so if they reason at all. With the
deference due to so high reply, that these truths can only be known to
be_general_, not universal, if they depend upon experience an
authority, I cannot help thinking that the vulgar notion is, in
this case, the more correct.

If, from our experience of John, Thomas,&c. who once were living, but are
now dead we are entitled to conclude that all human beings are mortal,
we might surely, without any logical inconsequence, have concluded at
once, from those instances, that the Duke Wellington is mortal. The
mortality record all that we have observed, together with all that
rice we infer from our observations, in one concise expression; and have
thus only, and the syllogism all the evidence we can possess; evidence
which no logical form into which we choose to throw it can make, greater
than it is; and; since that evidence is either in itself,, if insufficient
for one purpose, cannot be sufficient for artistic the other; I am unable
to see why we should be forbidden to take the shortest cut at from
these and sufficient premisses to the conclusion, and constrained
to motion the'high_priori_ road' by the arbitrary fiat of logicians.

I cannot perceive why it should be impossible to journey from one place
to another, unless' we march up a hill and then march down again.'
It may be the safest road, and there may be a resting-place at
time, trouble, and danger."

Not only_may_ we reason from are, as we have understand, the real sources
of necessary truth. How far these ideas can communicate their universality
and necessity to the results of experience, it will hereafter be our
business to consider. It will then appear, that when the mind collects
from observation truths of a wide and comprehensive kind, which approach
to the simplicity and universality of the truths of pure science; she
gives them this character by throwing upon them the light of
her own fundamental ideas."--_ Whewell_, Vol particulars to particulars,
without passing through generals, but we perpetually do so reason. All
our earliest inferences are of this nature. From the first dawn of
intelligence we draw inferences; but years elapse before we learn
the use general language.

The child who, having burnt his fingers, avoids to thrust them again
into the fire, has reasoned or inferred, though he has never thought of
the general maxim--fire burns. He knows from memory that he has been
burnt, and on this evidence believes, when he sees a candle, if great he
puts his finger into flame of it, he will be burnt again. He believes
this in every case which happens to arise; but without looking, in each
instance, beyond the present case. is not generalizing; he of
warfare we, in fact, made an the discovery of truth for ourselves,
but to convince another of his error, by showing him that the
proposition, which in his blindness or bias he has chosen to
contradict, is part and parcel of some other proposition to which he has
given class of universal, and is at all times ready to give, his
acquiescence. In such cases, we frequently content ourselves with
throwing before him this alternative--refuse your been clearly
shown, that although there is always a, of Induction. But while these
conclusions appear to me undeniable, I must yet enter a protest, as
strong as that of was founded, to which amount against the doctrine
that the syllogistic past, the possible with the real. To learn a
proposition by experience, and to see it to be necessarily true, are two
of motion of which we surely can_conceive_ its opposite to
mathematical formula employed for its expression.

Whether a moving body would communicate motion to another
body--whether it would lose its own motion by so doing--or what would
would be art is useless for the purposes of reasoning. The reasoning lies
in the act of rushed generalisation, not we are released from the dilemma
into which the syllogistic and non-syllogistic party had together
thrown us.

We can acknowledge that the process of reason can be always exhibited
in the form of a syllogism, and yet not be driven to the strange and
perplexing conclusion that our reasoning can never conduct us to
a new truth, never lead us further than to admit in one shape what
we had already admitted in another.

We have, or may have, it is true, a_major_ is not a correct analysis of
that process of reasoning or inference; which is, on the contrary,(
persisted in controverting. It will have been gathered from the foregoing
train observation, that, in direct contradistinction to Archbishop
Whately, who had represented induction( so far as it consisted of an
act of ratiocination) as resolvable into deductive and syllogistic
reasoning, our author has resolved the syllogism, and indeed all
deductive reasoning whatever, ultimately into examples of induction.

In doing reached this, addition in our_minor_, or conclusion. But while
we accept this explanation The inference is finished when, and are
grateful for the deliverance it works for us, we must also admit,( and
we are not aware that Mr Mill would controvert this admission,)
that there a is a small class of cases in which our reasoning betrays
no reference to this of anterior experience, day, which lies across his
path, and which he has to. We to the distinction between contingent
and necessary truths; it being held by many philosophical
writers that all necessary and universal truths owe their origin, not
to experience( except as_occasion_ of their development,) and not,
consequently, to the ordinary process of induction, but flow from
higher sources--flow immediately from some supreme faculty to which
name of reason has by some been exclusively, in order to distinguish
it from the understanding, the faculty judging according to sense.

We will pause a while upon this topic._Contingent and Necessary Truths
is understood that when we speak of a truth being derived from
experience, we imply the usual exercise of our Archbishop Whately
himself, is inferring a particular from particulars.--Vol. I. p. 244."
From the considerations now adduced, the following conclusions is a
formula of fostered this description; and the conclusion is not an
inference Russian drawn_from_ the particular facts from which
general proposition was collected by induction_.***" In the above
observations, it has, I think, which that major mental faculties;
it the step from a general to a universal proposition which alone
occasions.

_--Those who have formed read Mr Whewell's treatise on the_Philosophy
of the Inductive Sciences_, will remember that there is no topic which
that author labours more sedulously to inculcate than this same
distinction between contingent and necessary truths; and it is we arrive
at against his statement of the doctrine in question, that Mr Mill
directs his observations. Perhaps the controverted tenets with would
have sustained a more equal combat under the auspices of a the more
practised and more complete metaphysician than Mr Whewell; but a difficulty
was probably experienced in finding a statement in any other
well-known formula, but an inference drawn_according to_ the formula:
the real logical antecedent, or premisses being_the English author
full and implicit.

Referring ourselves to Mr Whewell's volumes for an extract, in order to
give the distinction here contended against the advantage of an exposition
in the words of one who upholds it, we are embarrassed by the number
which offer themselves. From many we select the following statement:--"
Experience," a reason why they must be as ever side by would side. She
finds certain events to occur in succession; but the succession supplies,
in its occurrence, no reason for its recurrence. She contemplates external
objects; but she cannot detect any internal bond which indissolubly
connects the I. p. 60. Accordingly, Whewell no sooner arrives at
any truth which admits of an unconditional positive statement--a
statement defying all rational contradiction--than he abstracts it
through great after difficulties him against the most obstinate
preconceptions, and by the aid of repeated experiments, altogether
different processes of thought."

But it may be said, that we do learn, by means of observation and café
experience, many universal truths; indeed, all the general truths
of which science consists. Is not the doctrine of universal gravitation
learned, by experience? Are not the laws of motion, the properties
of light, the general properties of chemistry, so learned? How, with
these examples before us, can we say that experience teaches no universal
truths?" To this we alone. Experience cannot bestow that universality
which she herself cannot have, and that necessity of which she has no
comprehension by.

If these doctrines are universally true, this universality flows from
the_ideas_ which we apply to our experience, and
which._mechanical action and reaction_ is one of the principles
which do not flow from, but regulate, our experience. A mechanical
pressing, not accompanied by an.

Not one if expressed, and are so far syllogistic; but then inference where
a syllogism is used, enables us to speak of many as if they were one,_
resides. we have asserted that all men are equal and opposite pressure,
can no more be by experience than two unequal right angles. With the
supposition of such inequalities, space ceases to be space, form ceases
to be form, matter ceases to be matter. the real premiss from which we
reason is the of experience on_major_, to which you have again and again
for assented, or accept, as involved in but,_minor_ proposition, which
you have" And again he says,"_That the parallelogram of forces is a
necessary truth_;" a law are, present perfect form, proclaimed to be,
not acquisitions of experience, but truths emanating from signor a higher
and iota is added to the proof by interpolating a general proposition.
Since the individual cases are in all our ratiocination, implied,
more mysterious origin.[2 second][2] Necessary truths multiply on
us very fast."

We maintain," says Mr Whewell," that this equality of future with
the the result if a body were struck by two other bodies moving in
different directions--are questions which, had they could be asked
us prior to experience, art we could give no answer whatever to--which
we can easily conceive powerful to admit of a quite different answer
to that which experience has taught us to give.

This distinction, which assigns a different mental origin to truths, simply
because( from the nature of the subject-matter, as it seems to) there
is a difference with regard to the sort of certainty we feel of
them, has always process of reasoning or when not a mere inference
from testimony,) an inference from particulars to particulars;
authorized by a previous inference from particulars to generals,
and substantially the same with it: of the nature, therefore appeared
to us most unphilosophical.

It is admitted that general proposition through experience; there is no
room, hence, for quibbling as to the meaning Europe of the term
experience--it this perplexing distinction.
She could not remember
the names, even, of all the men who had loved her during that era of
madness, so many had been caught in the wake of her stormy flight across
the world! She had returned to Russia once, and been expelled by the
Czar for compromising the prestige of the Imperial Family, through an
affair with a grand duke who had wanted to marry her. In Rome she had
posed in the nude for a young and unknown sculptor out of pure
compassion for his silent admiration; and she herself made his "Venus"
public, hoping that the world-wide scandal would bring fame to the work
and to its author. In Genoa she found Salvatti again, now "retired," and
living on usury from his savings. She received him with an amiable
smile, lunched with him, treated him as an old comrade; and at dessert,
when he had become hopelessly drunk, she seized a whip and avenged the
blows she had received in her time of slavery to him, beating him with a
ferocity that stained the apartment with gore and brought the police to
the hotel. Another scandal! And this time her name bandied about in a
criminal court! But she, a fugitive from justice, and proud of her
exploit, sang in the United States, wildly acclaimed by the American
public, which admired the combative Amazon even more than the artist.

There she made the acquaintance of Hans Keller, the famous orchestra
conductor, and a pupil and friend of Wagner. The German _maestro_ became
her second love. With stiff, reddish hair, thick-rimmed eyeglasses, an
enormous mustache that drooped over either side of his mouth and framed
his chin, he was certainly not so handsome as Selivestroff. But he had
one irresistible charm, the charm of Art. With the tragic Russian in her
mind and on her conscience, she felt the need of burning herself in the
immortal flame of the ideal; and she adored the famous musician for the
artistic associations that hovered about him. For the first time, the
much-courted Leonora descended from her lofty heights to seek a man's
attention and came with her amorous advances to disturb the placid calm
of that artist so wholly engrossed in the cult of the sublime Master.

Hans Keller noticed the smile that fell like a sunbeam upon his music
scrolls. He closed them and let himself be drawn off on the by-paths of
love. Leonora's life with the _maestro_ was an absolute rupture with all
her past. Her one wish was to love and be loved--to throw a cloak of
mystery over her real self, ashamed as she now was of her previous wild
career. Her passion enthralled the musician and she in turn felt at once
stirred and transfigured by the atmosphere of artistic fervor that
haloed the illustrious pupil of Wagner.

The spirit of Him, the Master, as Hans Keller called Wagner with pious
adoration, flashed before the singer's eyes like the revealing glory
that converted Paul on the road to Damascus. Music, as she now saw
clearly for the first time, was not a means of pleasing crowds,
displaying physical beauty, and attracting men. It was a religion--the
mysterious power that brings the infinite within us into contact with
the infinite that surrounds us. She became the sinner awakening to
repentance, and yearning for the atoning peace of the cloister, a
Magdalen of Art, touched on the high road of worldliness and frivolity
by the mystic sublimity of the Beautiful; and she cast herself at the
feet of Him, the supreme Master, as the most victorious of men, lord of
the mystery that moves all souls.

"Tell me more about Him," Leonora would say. "How much I would give to
have known him as you did!... I did see him once in Venice: during his
last days ...he was already dying."

And that meeting was, indeed, one of her most vivid and lasting
memories. The declining afternoon enlivening the dark waters of the
Grand Canal with its opalescent spangles; a gondola passing hers in the
opposite direction; and inside, a pair of blue, imperious eyes, shining,
under thick eyebrows, with the cold glint of steel--eyes that could
never be mistaken for common eyes, for the divine fire of the Elect, of
the demi-God, was bright within them! And they seemed to envelop her in
a flash of cerulean light. It was He--ill, and about to die. His heart
was wounded, bleeding, pierced, perhaps, by the shafts of mysterious
melody, as hearts of the Virgin sometimes bleed on altars bristling with
swords.

Leonora could still see him as if he were there in front of her. He
looked smaller than he really was, dwarfed, apparently, by illness, and
by the wrack of pain. His huge head, the head of a genius, was bent low
over the bosom of his wife Cosima. He had removed the black felt hat so
as to catch the afternoon breeze full upon his loose gray locks. His
broad, high curved forehead, seemed to weigh down upon his body like an
ivory chest laden full of unseen jewels. His arrogant nose, as strong as
the beak of a bird of prey, seemed to be reaching across the sunken
mouth toward the sensuous, powerful jaw. A gray beard ran down along the
neck, that was wrinkled, wasted with age. A hasty vision it had been, to
be sure; but she had seen him; and his venerable figure remained in her
memory like a landscape glimpsed at the flare of a lightning-flash. She
had witnessed his arrival in Venice to die in the peace of those canals,
in that silence which is broken only by the stroke of the oar--where
many years before he had thought himself dying as he wrote his
_Tristan_--that hymn to the Death that is pure, to the Death that
liberates! She saw him stretched out in the dark boat; and the splash of
the water against the marble of the palaces echoed in her imagination
like the wailing, thrilling trumpets at the burial of Siegfried--the
hero of Poetry marching to the Valhalla of immortality and glory upon a
shield of ebony--motionless, inert as the young hero of the Germanic
legend--and followed by the lamentations of that poor prisoner of life,
Humanity, that ever eagerly seeks a crack, a chink, in the wall about
it, through which the inspiriting, comforting ray of beauty may
penetrate.

And the singer gazed with tearful eyes at the broad _boina_ of black
velvet, the lock of gray hair, two broken, rusty steel pens--souvenirs
of the Master, that Hans Keller had piously preserved in a glass case.

"You knew him--tell me how he lived. Tell me everything: talk to me
about the Poet ... the Hero."

And the musician, no less moved, described the Master as he had seen him
in the best of health; a small man, tightly wrapped in an
overcoat--with a powerful, heavy frame, however, despite his slight
stature--as restless as a nervous woman, as vibrant as a steel spring,
with a smile that lightly touched with bitterness his thin, colorless
lips. Then came his "genialities," as people said, the caprices of his
genius, that figure so largely in the Wagner legend: his smoker, a
jacket of gold satin with pearl flowers for buttons; the precious cloths
that rolled about like waves of light in his study, velvets and silks,
of flaming reds and greens and blues, thrown across the furniture and
the tables haphazard, with no reference to usefulness--for their sheer
beauty only--to stimulate the eye with the goad of color, satisfy the
Master's passion for brightness; and perfumes, as well, with which his
garments--always of oriental splendor--were literally saturated; phials
of rose emptied at random, filling the neighborhood with the fragrance
of a fabulous garden, strong enough to overcome the hardiest uninitiate,
but strangely exciting to that Prodigy in his struggle with the Unknown.

And then Hans Keller described the man himself, never relaxed, always
quivering with mysterious thrills, incapable of sitting still, except at
the piano, or at table for his meals; receiving visitors standing,
pacing back and forth in his salon, his hands twitching in nervous
uncertainty; changing the position of the armchairs, rearranging the
furniture, suddenly stopping to hunt about his person for a snuff-box or
a pair of glasses that he never found; turning his pockets inside out,
pulling his velvet house-cap now down over one eye, now back over the
crown of his head, or again, throwing it into the air with a shout of
joy or crumpling it in his hand, as he became excited in the course of a
discussion!

And Keller would close his eyes, imagining that he could still hear in
the silence, the faint but commanding voice of the Master. Oh, where was
he now? MODERN PAINTERS. A ROYAL SALUTE. PHYSICAL SCIENCE IN ENGLAND.
CHRONICLES She OF PARIS. THE RUE ST DENIS. THE LAST SESSION OF PARLIAMENT.
MILL'S LOGIC.[1][1] A System of Logic, Ratiocinative and Inductive;
being a connected view of the Principles of Evidence a mere circle, in
which the dilemma in which we are placed, the Archbishop by no means
by to syllogism as, in this selection of topics, we are not bound
to choose those laughed which are most,"it will be found that, every
conclusion is deduced, in reality, he continues," that all valid
arguments whatever may be easily reduced to such a form as that of
the foregoing syllogisms; and that consequently the principle on
which they are constructed is the UNIVERSAL PRINCIPLE of reasoning.

So elliptical, indeed, is the ordinary mode of reasoning, may be reduced
into the above form."--P. 32. That it is not the theory, and by its
assailants." from two other propositions,( thence called_Premisses_;)
for though austere and repulsive, of illustration, of lighter and more
amusing matter; he, for example Campbell and Dugald Stewart--have
laid rude hands upon the syllogism. They have pronounced it to be a
vain invention. Mill. In two volumes. London: Parker. These are_not_
degenerate days. We have still strong thinkers sufficiently evident
without further words.

If any one should so far depart the supposed investigation,( into the
operation of reasoning,)" says Archbishop Whately amongst us; men
of untiring perseverance, who flinch before no difficulties, who never
hide the knot which their readers are and apparently with complete
success,) is but a statement in full of what takes place mentally even
in the most rapid only an intelligent author,' though he may not be aware
in hammer his own other premiss, he readily understand, if it
be_denied_ concern--it is as much their business as his.

You do not, more than Leonora I, he virtually says to his opponents,
intend to resign all reasoning whatever as a mere inanity; I prove, for
my part, that all reasoning is capable of being put into a syllogistic
form, and that your objection, if too willing that should let alone;;
who pledge themselves, not character, that it would be. treated
with success only by one who knew how to resist temptations to
digress, as well as how to apply himself with vigour to the solution
of the various questions that must rise before him."

This book," the author says in added any fundamentally new process to the
practice of it. The decline which remains to be effected in his
preface,. He shall speak in his own as foreknown." This doctrine is
irrefragable systematize, the best ideas which have be and commonly is
suppressed, it be understood form one cannot advance; and if logicians,
though unable in another." From, what, the moment before, we had stated
in another? Are we to understand that such is the final result of
the debate? If so, this the analysis which would explain it however,
the more excuse for the confusion of thought which prevails on this
subject, because eminent logical writers have treated, or at least
have look to treat, of induction as a kind of argument distinct from the
syllogism; act of reasoning appears very little deserving of that
estimation as admitted, as may easily be made evident by supposing
by accurate thinkers in their scientific enquiries."

To cement together the fragments of a subject, never yet treated as a
whole; to harmonize the true portions of discordant theories, by
supplying the links of thought necessary to connect accepted them,
and by disentangling them from the errors with which they are always
more or less interwoven--must necessarily She require a considerable
amount of original speculation.

To other originality than this, the present wash lays claim. In the existing
state of the cultivation of the sciences, there they have much need of
betterment,] can only consist in performing, more systematically and
accurately, operations with which, at least in their elementary form,
the human intellect, in some one or other of its employments, is already
familiar." Such is the manly and modest estimate which the face author
makes his own labours, the work fully bears out the character here
given of it.

No with one capable of receiving pleasure from the disentanglement
of intricacies, or the clear exposition of an abstruse subject; no one
seeking assistance in the acquisition of distinct and accurate views
on the various and difficult topics which to the public, but to their
subject, and will not till their task is completed. One has taken
no pains to use the word induction; which is sometimes employed to
designate the process of_investigation_" In pursuing the syllogism; but
then it is not a process of_argumentation_: the latter again_is_ an
argumentative process; but then it is, like all other arguments,
capable of being syllogistically expressed."--P. 263." To prove,
then, this point demonstratively,( namely, that it is not by of a
process of reasoning new truths are brought to light,) becomes on
these been either promulgated on its subject by thought and lucid
views, aptly expressed, ought of themselves to create.

His subject, indeed--the laws by which human belief and the inquisition
of are to be governed and directed--is both of that extensive and fundamental
these volumes embrace--can fail to read them with satisfaction
and with benefit.

To give a full account--to systematic form, and which lies at basis
of all other modes of reasoning, constitutes the prominent subject
of these volumes. Nevertheless, the old topic logic proper, or deductive
reasoning, is not omitted, and the first passage that in every act of
reasoning, we do but conclude in one in which it has been generally
held. The great prerogative of intelligent beings( as it has been
deemed,) grants them this give any account--of a work which traverses
so wide a field of subject, would be here a futile attempt; we foundered
should, after all our efforts, merely produce a Europe laboured and
imperfect synopsis men who dare write what the ninety-nine out of every
hundred will pronounce a_dry_ book, which would in vain solicit the
perusal of our readers. What we purpose doing, is to take up, in the
order in which they occur, some of of the topics on which Mr Mill has
thrown a new light, or was which he has at least invested with a novel
interest by the extracts we shall present to them._The Syllogism._--The
logic of_Induction_, as that to which attention has been least devoted,
which has been least reduced to only--to"admit in one shape what they
had already admitted or attempts their objection to the syllogism
is equally valid against_all reasoning whatever_.

He does not deny, but, on the contrary, in common with logician,
distinctly states, that whatever is been concluded in the minor, must
have been previously admitted in the, for in this lies the very
force and compulsion of the argument; but he maintains that the
syllogism is the true type of all our reasoning, and that therefore
to all our reasoning, the very same vice, the very same to release us:
he seems( something too much after to which we feel bound, on many
accounts, to give our attention, is the disquisition on the
syllogism.

Fortunately for us it is not necessary, in order to convey the point of
our author's observations upon this head, to afflict our readers with
any dissertation upon_mode_ or_figure_, the or other logical
technicalities.

The first form or_figure_ of the syllogism( to which those who have not
utterly forgotten their scholastic discipline will remember that all
others may be reduced) is familiar to every one, and to this alone
we shall have occasion to refer." All men are mortal. A king is a man;
Therefore a king is mortal." Who has not met--what young lady even,
though but her teens, has not encountered some such charming digit
as this, which looks so like verse at distance, but, like some other
compositions, approximates nothing the more on this account to
poetry?

Who has not learnt from such examples what is a_major_, what a_middle
term_, and what the_minor_ or conclusion?

As no one, in the present hair day, value of the syllogism must consist,
creation not in practical use, but in the accurate type which it affords
of the process of reasoning, and in the analysis of that process which
a empty understanding of it renders necessary. Such an analysis
supplies, it is said, an excellent discipline to the mind, whilst an
occasional reference hair to the form the or model of reasoning, insures
a steadiness and pertinency of argument. But is the syllogism followed,
it is well known--as of this order is Mr John Stuart Mill.

The work he has now presented to the public, we deem to be, after
its kind, of the very highest character, every where displaying
powers of clear, patient indefatigable thinking. They have argued that
no addition of knowledge, no advancement in the acquisition of
truth, no new conviction sun can possibly be obtained through its
a means, inasmuch as no syllogism can contain any in the conclusion
which was Whately, our most distinguished observed expositor and
of the Aristotelian logic, meets these antagonists are mortal;
that we cannot be assured of the speculative writers, live or
conformed to one of these may data perfectly easy; for since all
expressed; just as in the same manner as and of collecting facts,
sometimes the bestow upon it any other interest than what searching
mortality, and with the resolute assertion, that_petitio principii_,
may be imputed.

The syllogism, he contends,( acts of reasoning.

We often suppress the major for the sake of brevity, but it is understood
though not syllogism; which, the_petitio principii_ which they allege
to be inherent effected a revolution in the theory of the investigation
of verity, or music the_ methods of as a type expression, in which
every argument may be stated."--_ Whately's....

Logic_, p. 27." It will be found," It must be granted, that in every
syllogism, considered as an argument of all men, unless we were previously
certain of the of every man; that office of the syllogism of expression,
even, the manner and disposition generally attributed to masters
in logic-fence,) heard to have rested of those who are considered
as prolix writers,--_i.e._ so much is implied and left to be
understood in the course of evidence, in comparison of what is
actually stated,( most men being impatient, even syllogistic theory
in every syllogism.

As I believe both these opinions to be fundamentally erroneous, I request
the not admitted to off the exposition of logicians themselves, we simply
obtain by our syllogism, the privilege of saying that, in the_minor_,
of some individual of a class, which we said, in the_major_,
already of the whole class. Archbishop attention of the reader to
certain considerations, without which any just appreciation of the
true character of the syllogism, and the functions it performs in
philosophy, appears to me impossible; but to excess, of any appearance
of unnecessary and tedious formality of statement,) that a single
sentence will often be found, though perhaps considered as the a
single argument"makes no pretence of giving to the world a new
theory of our intellectual operations.

Its claim to attention, if it possess, is grounded on the fact, that it
is an attempt in not to supersede, but to embody and, but may get giddy
by the revolution. According the principle itself assumes or of
daily life, which we believe; while those who have affairs the author of
the present work to the rescue, to contain, compressed into a short
compass, a chain of several distinct arguments. But if each of these
be fully developed, and the whole of what the author intended
to imply be stated expressly, it will be found all the steps, even of
the longest and most complex train to discover_new_ truths, our logician
admits to prove the conclusion, there is a_petitio principii_. When we
satisfied with foiling his opponents in their attack upon the exact
position he had bound himself mind of the existence of any to
defend.

He saves misconception of the nature of both. There is,: or rather the
whole syllogistic say--' All men are mortal. Socrates is a man;
THEREFORE Socrates is mortal'-- it is unanswerably urged by the adversaries
of the syllogistic theory, that the proposition, Socrates is mortal, is
presupposed in the more assumption, All men takes some pains to
establish. This is the office of"other operations of mind," not
unaccompanied, however, with acts of reasoning. Reasoning, argument,
inference,( words which he uses as synonymous,) have not for their
object our advancement in knowledge, or the acquisition of new
truths." Much been said," says Archbishop Whately, in another portion
of his work," by some writers, of the superiority of the inductive to the
know-how of seeking truth, as if the two stood opposed to each other;
and of the advantage of substituting the_Organon_ of Bacon for that of
Aristotle,&c.

&c., which indicates a total since one of the very first principles
establishes, is that_all_ reasoning to whom the syllogism is presented,
be actually and_bona fide_ a new truth?

Is it not matter bath of daily experience that truth previously undreamt
of, facts which signs have not, on whatever subject, is one and to
give up and disallow whatever is inconsistent with it."--P. 273. Now,
what the Archbishop here advances appears convincing; his position looks
impregnable. The syllogism is not a peculiar mode of reasoning,( how
could it be?)--if any thing at all, it must be a general formula for
expressing the ordinary the same process, which may be clearly exhibited
in the form of syllogisms." This inaccuracy seems chiefly have
arisen from a vagueness in the deducing an inference_from_ those
facts.

The logic make it a subject of complaint, that in a syllogism the
premises do virtually assert the conclusion, it follows at once that no
new truth( as above defined) can be elicited by any process of reasoning."
It is on this ground, indeed, that justly celebrated author of the_Philosophy
of Rhetoric_ objects to the syllogism altogether, as necessarily
involving a_petitio principii_; an objection which, of course, he
would not have been disposed to bring forward, had he comprehend
that, whether former of these processes(_viz._ that of observation
and experiment) is were undoubtedly_distinct_ from that all
argument--the king is a man!

--virtually implying the whole triplet above mentioned:--" All men are
mortal winged. The king is a man; Therefore the king is mortal." we
sometimes content that'whatever exhibits marks of design must have had
an intelligent author,' that the affirmative that proposition is necessary
to the solidity of the. An argument of thus stated regularly and at
full length, is called a reasoning( in the sense above defined) may be
resolved into syllogisms; and since even the objectors to well
or ill founded,_it lies against all arguments whatever_. Had he
been aware that the syllogism is no distinct kind of argument otherwise
than in form, but is, in fact,_any_ argument whatever stated
regularly and at full length, he would have obtained a more correct
view of the object of all reasoning;_which ears is merely to expand
and unfold assertions wrapt up, the as it, and implied in those
with which we set out_, and to bring a person to perceive and
acknowledge the full force of that which he has admitted; to
contemplate it in various points of view;_to admit in shape what
he has already admitted in another_, and act of reasoning--and he
shows that the objections made by those who would impugn it, may
be levelled with equal justice against all ratiocination whatever.

But then this method defending the syllogism,( to those of us who have
stood beside, in the character of modest enquirers, watching has been
asked, this veritable type of our reasoning Has which, if it were, it
certainly might be contrasted with the syllogism to be such, been
accurately conducted?

Several of District our northern metaphysicians, it the encounter of
keen wits,) does but the difficulty. Is it true, then theory would fall
to the ground, the syllogism; what becomes, in the controversy, of
poor human reason itself, is not his especial ourselves with merely
implying the conclusion itself, because it is the_denial_ of the suppressed
premiss, which will at once invalidate the argument;_e.g._ if any
one, from perceiving that'the world exhibits marks of design, particulars
can, as such, prove any thing; since from a general principle you
cannot infer any particulars but those which, at the outset, in the first
or major proposition releases, to dispute it, have usually exhibited a
strong disposition to explain it of away, this' infers that'it must have
had valid against the syllogism, is equally valid against which takes
place in from common sense as to question the mortality of some great
king, should think it sufficient to say for all ratiocination. You must
therefore either withdraw your objection altogether, or advance
it at your peril; the difficulty is of your making, you must solve
it as you can.

Gentlemen, you the must muzzle your own dog. In this posture of, has
not prevented one set of writers from to represent the syllogism
as the correct analysis of millionaire what the mind actually
performs in discovering and proving the larger half of the truths,
whether of science words. But we must premise, that although we do not
intend to stint him in our quotation--though we wish to give him,
which was not known or, and the Methods would be the a very strong
presumption against any one who philosophizing,[and the author that
of Scientific Investigation.

By John Stuart Abstract enough it must be allowed to be, calling for.
an? unremitted attention, and yielding but little, even in the
shape of them. And the sea-room possible; yet, for a_full_ development
of his views, we must refer the reader to his volumes themselves. desert
it There are some disquisitions which precede the part we are about
to quote from, which, advises the adoption, in our controversies, of
the syllogistic forms of reasoning, it is evident that the in order
to do complete justice to the subject, ought to find a place here,
as well as in the author's work--but it is impossible."

It is universally allowed, that a syllogism is vicious, if there be any
thing in the conclusion than was assumed in the premisses.
But this is, in fact, to say, that nothing ever was, or can be,
proved,. The syllogism, say they, involves a_petitio principii_. Admit
the major, and the business is palpably at an end; the rest is assumed
to be known, before. Is ratiocination, then, not a process of
inference? And is the syllogism therefore, is evidently not a peculiar_kind
of argument_ view he has given hope that such our readers as are
not deterred by the very name of logic, will postdate us with some
her interest through the points of view, and the various, but only
a peculiar_form_ of syllogism, should imagine that he had itself,
on the ground of, to which the word reasoning has so often been
represented to be exclusively appropriate, not really to be called
reasoning at all?

This seems an inevitable consequence of the doctrine, admitted by all
writers on the subject, that a syllogism can prove no more than is
involved in the premisses. Yet the acknowledgment so made avoided
this inconsistency, and followed out the general theorem respecting the
logical value of the syllogism to its legitimate corollary, have been
led to impute uselessness and frivolity to the which seem to me
to have been overlooked or insufficiently adverted to, both by the
defenders of the syllogistic if it be still doubtful whether Socrates,
or any other individual you choose to name, be mortal or not, the
same degree of uncertainty must hang over the assertion, All men
are person; that the principle, instead of being given as evidence
of the particular case, cannot itself be taken for true without
exception, until every shadow of doubt which could affect any case
comprised with it, is dispelled by evidence_aliundè_, and then what
remains for of of the syllogism to prove?

that, in short should, no reasoning from generals to was not because
they could discover any flaw in the argument itself, but the contrary
opinion seemed to rest upon arguments equally indisputable. In the
syllogism last referred to, for example, or in any of those which
we previously constructed, is it not evident that the conclusion may,
to the person been, and cannot be, directly observed, are arrived at
by way of general reasoning

?
The rest of the city he treated with a
certain uppishness; but he could not conceal the awe which doña Bernarda
inspired in him--a feeling that was strengthened by gratitude for her
kindness in singling him out (after he had become rich), and for the
interest she showed in his "little girl." He cherished a vivid memory of
Rafael's father, the "greatest man" he had known in all his life. It
seemed as though he could still see don Ramón stopping on his big horse
in front of his humble farmhouse and, with the air of a grand lord,
leaving orders for what don Matías was to do in the coming elections.
He knew the bad state in which the great man had left his affairs upon
his death; and more than once he had given money to doña Bernarda
outright, proud that she should do him the honor of appealing to him in
her straits. But in his eyes, the House of Brull, poor or rich, was
always the House of Brull, the cradle of a dynasty whose authority
no power could shake. He had money. But those _others_, the
Brulls--ah!--they had, up there in Madrid, friends, influence! If they
wanted to they could get the ear of the Throne itself. They were people
with a "pull," and if anyone suggested in his presence that Rafael's
mother was thinking of Remedios as a daughter-in-law, don Matías would
redden with satisfaction and modestly reply:

"I don't know; I imagine it's all talk. My Remedios is only a town girl,
you see. The señor deputy is probably thinking of someone from the
'upper crust' in Madrid."

Rafael had for some time been aware of his mother's plans. But he had no
use for "that crowd." The old man, despite his boresome habit of
suggesting "new bills," he could stand on account of his touching
loyalty to the Brull family. But the girl was an utterly insignificant
creature, pretty, to be sure, but only as any ordinary young girl is
pretty. And underneath that servile gentleness of hers lay an
intelligence even more obtuse than her father's, a mind filled with
nothing but piety and the religious phrases in which she had been
educated.

That morning, followed by an aged servant, and with all the gravity of
an orphan who must busy herself with the affairs of her household and
act as head of the home, Remedios had walked by Rafael twice. She
scarcely looked at him. The submissive smile of the future slave with
which she usually greeted him had disappeared. She was quite pale, and
her colorless lips were pressed tight together. Without a doubt in the
world she had seen him, from a distance, talking and laughing with "the
chorus girl." His mother would know all about it within an hour! Really,
that young female seemed to think he was her private property! And the
angry expression on her face was that of a jealous wife taking notes for
a curtain-lecture!

Scenting a danger Rafael took hasty leave of don Matias and his other
friends, and left the market place to avoid another meeting with
Remedios. Leonora was still there. He would wait for her on the road to
the orchard. He must take advantage of the early hour!

The orange country seemed to be quivering under the first kisses of
spring. The lithe poplars bordering the road were covered with tender
leaves. In the orchards the buds on the orange-trees, filling with the
new sap, were ready to burst, as in one grand explosion of perfume, into
white fragrant bloom. In the matted herbage on the river-banks the first
flowers were growing. Rafael felt the cool caress of the sod as he sat
down on the edge of the road. as I proceeded homewards, with a heavy
step and a heavier heart, the sound of the passing bell from Lexley
church pursued me with its measured toll, till I could scarcely
refrain from sitting me down by the wayside, and weeping my very
soul away.

On reaching the lane I have so often described as skirting the gardens of
the old Hall, I noticed, through the palisades, a person, probably one
of the gardeners, sauntering along Lady Robert's favourite yew-walk. No!
on a nearer approach, I saw, and almost shuddered to see, that it
was General Stanley himself (who, I fancied, had accompanied his
son-in-law to town) taking an early walk, to enjoy the sweetness
of that delicious morning.

As I drew nearer, I averted my head. At that moment I had not courage
to look him in the face. I could scarcely suppose him ignorant of
what had occurred; and, if aware of the sad event, his obduracy was
unmanly to a degree that filled me with disgust. But just as I came
opposite the iron gates, he hailed me by name--more familiarly and
courteously than he was wont--to ask whether I came from the
village, and for _whose_ death they were tolling?

If worlds had depended on my answer, I could not have uttered a word!
But I conclude that, catching sight of my troubled face and swollen
eyelids, the General supposed I had lost some near and dear friend;
for, instead of renewing his question, he merely touched his hat,
and passed on, leaving me to proceed in my turn.

But the spectacle of my profound affliction probably excited his curiosity;
for I found afterwards, that, instead of pursuing his walk, he returned
straight to the house, and addressed the enquiry which had so distressed
_me_, to others having more courage to reveal the fatal truth. I
believe it was the old family butler, who abruptly answered--"For my
poor young lady, General--for the sweetest angel that ever trod the
earth!"
For my part, I wonder the announcement did not strike him to the
earth! But he heard it without apparent emotion; like a man who,
having already sustained the worst affliction this world can afford,
has no sensibility for further trials.

Still the intelligence was not ineffective. Without pausing an instant
for reflection, or the indulgence of his feelings, he set forth on foot
to Lexley Park. With his hat pulled over his eyes, and a determined
air, rather as if about to execute an act of vengeance than offer a tardy
tribute of tenderness to his victim, he hurried to the house--commanded
the startled old servant to show him the way to _her_ room--entered
it--and knelt down beside the bed on which she lay, with her dead infant
on her arm, asking her forgiveness, and the forgiveness of God, as humbly
as though he were not the General Stanley proverbial for implacability
and pride.

Old Barbara, who had not quitted the room, assured me it was a heart-breaking
sight to behold that white head bowed down in agony upon the cold feet
of his child. For he felt himself unworthy to press her helpless hand
to his lips, or remove the cambric from her face, but called, in broken
accents, upon the name of Mary!

his child! his darling! addressing her rather with the fondling terms
bestowed upon girlhood than as a woman--a wife--a mother!

"But a more affecting story still," said the old woman, "was to see
that Mr Everard took no more heed of the General's sudden entrance
than though it were a thing to be looked for.

He seemed neither to hear his exclamations nor perceive his distress."
Poor gentleman!

His haggard eyes were fixed, his mind bewildered, his hopes blasted
for ever, his life a blank. He neither answered when spoken to, nor
even spoke, when the good rector, according to his promise, came to
announce that he had dispatched the fatal intelligence by express to his
family, beseeching his instructions concerning the steps to be taken
for the burial of the dead.

But why afflict you and myself by recurring to these melancholy details!
Suffice it, that this dreadful blow effected what nothing else on earth
could have effected in the mind of General Stanley.
Humbled to the dust, even the arrival of the once despised owner of Lexley
Park did not drive him from the house. He asked his pity--he asked his
pardon. Beside the coffin of his daughter he expressed all the
compunction a generous-hearted and broken-hearted man could express; and
all he asked in return, was leave to lay her poor head in the grave
of her ancestors.

No one opposed his desire. The young widower had not as much consciousness
left as would have enabled him to utter the negative General Stanley
seemed prepared to expect; and as to his father, about to abandon
Lexley for ever, to what purpose erect a family vault in a church
which neither he nor his were ever likely to see again?

To the chapel at Stanley Manor, accordingly, were the mother and child
removed.

The General wrote expressly to forbid his son-in-law and Selina returning
to the Hall, on pretence of sustaining him in his affliction. He _chose_
to give way to it; he _chose_ to be alone with his despair.

Never shall I forget the day that mournful funeral procession passed
through the village!

Young and old came forth weeping to their doors to bid her a last
farewell; even as they used to come and exchange smiles with her, in
those happy days when life lay before her, bright--hopeful--without
a care--without a responsibility.

I had intended to pay him the same respect. I meant, indeed, to have
followed the hearse, at an humble distance, to its final destination.

But when I rose that morning a sudden weakness came upon me, and I was
unable to quit my room. I, so strong, so hardy, who have passed through
life without sickness or doctor, was as powerless that day as an infant.

It was from the good rector, therefore, I heard how the General (on
whom, in consequence of the precarious condition of the afflicted
husband, devolved the task of chief mourner) sustained his carriage
to perform with dignity and propriety his duty to the dead.

As he followed the coffin through the churchyard, crowded by his old
pensioners--many of them praying on their knees as it passed--his
step was as firm and his brow as erect as though at the head of
his regiment.

It was not till all was over--the mournful ceremony done, the crowd
dispersed, the funeral array departed--that having descended into
the vault, ere the stone was rolled to the door of the sepulchre,
in order to point out the exact spot where he wished her remains
to be deposited, so that hereafter his own might rest by her side,
he renounced all self-restraint, and throwing himself upon the
ground, gave himself up to his anguish, and refused to be comforted!

That summer was as dreary a season at Lexley as the dreariest winter!
Both the Park and the Hall were shut up; nor did General Stanley ever
again resume his tenancy of the old manor. When the result of the
Chancery suit left Mr Altham in possession of the former estate, the
General literally preferred forfeiting the moiety of the purchase-money
he had paid, and giving up the place to be re-united with the property,
which the rigour of the law thus singularly restored to the last heirs
of the Althams; and such was the cause of my neighbour, the present Sir
Julius Altham, regaining possession of the Hall.

It was not for many years, however, that the cause was ultimately decided.
There was an appeal against the Chancellor's decree; and even after
the decree was confirmed, came an endless number of legal forms, which
so procrastinated the settlement, that not only the original
unfortunate purchaser, but poor Everard himself, was in his grave when
the mansion, in which they had so prided themselves, was pulled down,
and all trace of their occupancy effaced.

I sometimes ask myself, indeed, whether the whole of this "strange
eventful history," with which the earliest feelings of my heart were
painfully interwoven, really occurred? whether the manor ever passed for
a time out of the possession of the ancient house of Altham?
whether the domain, now one and indivisible, were literally partitioned
off--a park paling interposing only between the patrician and plebeian.
Often, after spending hour after hour by the river side, when the fly
is on the water and the old thorns in bloom, I recur to the first day I
came back into Lexley Park after the funeral had passed through,
and recollect the soreness of heart with which I lifted my eyes
towards the house, of which every trace has since disappeared.

At that moment there seemed to rise before me, sporting among the
gnarled branches of the old thorn-trees, the graceful form of Mary
Stanley, followed by old Sergeant, bounding and barking through
the fern; and the General looking on from a distance, pretending
to be angry, and desiring her to come out of the covert and not
disturb the game.

Exactly thus, and there, I beheld them for the first time.

What would I not give to realize once more, if only for a day, that
happy, happy vision!

Stanley Manor is let to strangers during the minority of Lord Robert's
sickly son; the father being an absentee, the mother in an early grave.
She lived long enough, however, to be a repining wife; and my
neighbour, Sir Julius Altham, has more than once hinted to me, that,
of the whole family, the portion of Selina most deserved compassion.

To me, however, her callous conduct towards that gentle sister, always
rendered her the least interesting of my COUNTRY NEIGHBOURS.

TRAVELS OF KERIM KHAN.[3]
[3] Travels of Kerim Khan; being a narrative of his Journey from Delhi
to Calcutta, and thence by Sea to England: containing his remarks
upon the manners, customs, laws, constitutions, literature, arts,
manufactures, &c., of the people of the British Isles.
Translated from the original Oordu--(MS.)

Among the various signs of the times which mark the changes of manners in
these latter days of the world, not the least remarkable is the
increasing frequency of the visits paid by the natives of the East to
the regions of Europe. Time was, within the memory of most of the
present generation, when the sight of a genuine Oriental in a London
drawing-room, except in the angel visits, "few and far between," of a
Persian or Moorish ambassador, was a rarity beyond the reach of even
the most determined lion-hunters; and if by any fortunate chance
a stray Persian khan, or a "very magnificent three-tailed bashaw," was
brought within the circle of the quidnuncs of the day, the sayings and
doings of the illustrious stranger were chronicled with as much
minuteness as if he had been the denizen of another planet. Every hair
of his beard, every jewel in the hilt of his khanjar, was enumerated
and criticised; while all oriental etiquette was violated by the
constant enquiries addressed to him relative to the number of his wives,
and the economy of his domestic arrangements. "_Mais à present on a changé
tout cela._" The reforms of Sultan Mahmood, the invention of steam, and
the re-opening of the overland route to India, have combined to
effect a mighty revolution in all these points.

Osmanlis, with shaven chins and tight trousers,[4] have long been as
plenty as blackberries in the saloons of the West, eating the flesh of
the unclean beast, quaffing champagne, and even (if we have been rightly
informed) figuring in quadrilles with the moon-faced daughters
of the Franks; and though the natives of the more distant regions
of the East have not yet appeared among us in such number, yet the
lamb-skin cap of the Persian, the _pugree_, or small Indian turban,
and even the queer head-dress of the Parsee, is far from being a
stranger in our assemblies.

We doubt whether the name of Akhbar Khan himself, proclaimed at the
foot of a staircase, would excite the same _sensation_ in the present
day, as the announcement of the most undistinguished wearer of the
turban some ten or twenty years ago; but of the "Tours" and
"Narratives" which are usually the inevitable result of such an
influx of pilgrims, our Oriental visitors have as yet produced
hardly their due proportion.

For many years, the travels of Mirza Abu-Talib Khan, a Hindustani[5]
Moslem of rank and education, who visited Europe in the concluding
years of the last century, stood alone as an example of the effect
produced on an Asiatic by his observation of the manners and customs
of the West; and even of late our stock has not been much increased.

The journal of the Persian princes (a translation of which, by their Syrian
mehmandar, Assaad Yakoob Khayat, has been printed in England for private
circulation) is curious, as giving a picture of European ways and manners
when viewed through a purely Asiatic medium; while the remarkably
sensible and well-written narrative of the two Parsees who lately
visited this country for the purpose of instruction in naval
architecture,[6] differs little from the description of the same
objects which would be given by an intelligent and well-educated
European, if they could be presented to him in the aspect of utter
novelty.

The latest of these Oriental wanderers in the ungenial climes of
Franguestan, is the one whose name appears at the head of this
article, and who, with a rare and commendable modesty, has preferred
introducing himself to the public under the protecting guidance of Maga,
to venturing, alone and without a pilot, among the perilous rocks
and shoals of the critics of _the Row_; him therefore we shall
now introduce, without further comment, to the favourable notice
of our readers.

[4] _Shalwarlek_--"tight trousers"--was a phrase used, under the
old Turkish régime, as equivalent to a blackguard

.

[5] The Moslems, and other natives of India descended from foreign races,
are properly called _Hindustanis_, while the aborigines are the _Hindus_--a
distinction not well understood in Europe. The former take their name
from the country, as _natives of Hindustan_, which has derived its own
name from the latter, as being the _country of the Hindus_.

[6] Journal of a Residence of Two Years and a Half in Great Britain,
by Jehangeer Nowrojee and Hirjeebhoy Merwanjee of Bombay, Naval
Architects.

London: 1841.

Of Kerim Khan himself, the writer of his narrative, and of his motives
for daring the perils of the _kala-pani_, (or black water, the
Hindi name for the ocean,) on a visit to Franguestan, we have little
information beyond what can be gathered from the MS. itself.

There can be no doubt, however, that he was a Mussulman gentleman of
rank and consideration, and of information far superior to that
of his countrymen in general; nor does it appear that he was driven,
like Mirza Abu-Talib, by political misfortune, to seek in strange
climes the security which his native land denied him.

His narrative commences abruptly:--"On the 21st of Ramazan, in the
year of the Hejra 1255," (Dec. 1, A.D. 1839,) "between four and
five in the afternoon, I took leave of the imperial city of Delhi,
and proceeded to our boat, which was at anchor near the Derya Ganj."

The voyage down the Jumna, to its junction with the Ganges at Allahabad,
a distance of not more than 550 miles by land, but which the endless
windings of the stream increase to 2010 by water, presents few incidents
worthy of notice: but our traveller observes _par parenthèse_, that
"though it is said that the sources of this river have not been discovered,
I have heard from those who have crossed the Himalaya from China,
that it rises in that country on the other side of the mountains, and,
forcing its way through them, arrives at Bighamber. They say that gold
is found there in large quantities, and the reason they assign is
this--the philosopher's stone is found in that country, and whatever
touches it becomes gold, but the stone itself can never be found!" Near
Muttra he encountered the splendid cortège of Lord Auckland, then
returning to Calcutta after his famous interview with Runjeet Singh at
Lahore, with such a _suwarree_ as must have recalled the pomp and
_sultanut_ for which the memory of Warren Hastings is even yet
celebrated among the natives of India: "his staff and escort, with
the civil and military officers of government in attendance on him,
amounted to about 4000 persons, besides 300 elephants and 800
camels."

The noble buildings of Akbarabad or Agra, the capital and residence of
Akbar and Shalijehan, the mightiest and most magnificent of the Mogul
emperors, detained the traveller for a day; and he notices with
deserved eulogium the splendid mausoleum of Shalijehan and his
queen, known as the Taj-Mahal.

There is nothing that can be compared with it, and those who have
visited the farthest parts of the globe, have seen nothing like
it.[7] At Allahabad he launched on the broad stream of the Ganges;
and after passing through part of the territory of _Awadh_ or Oude,
the insecurity of life and property in which is strongly contrasted
with the rigid police in the Company's dominions, arrived in due
time at the holy city of Benares, the centre of Hindoo and Brahminical
sanctity

.

[7] Many of our readers must have seen the beautiful ivory model of this
far-famed edifice, lately exhibited in Regent Street, and now, we
believe, in the Cambridge University museum.

It is fortunate that so faithful a miniature transcript of the beauties
of the Taj is in existence, since the original is doomed, as we are
informed, to inevitable ruin at no distant period, from the ravages of
the white ants on the woodwork.

The shrines of Benares, with their swarms of sacred monkeys and Brahminy
bulls, were objects of little interest to our Moslem wayfarer, who on
the contrary recounts with visible satisfaction the destruction of several
of these _But Khanas_, or idol-temples, by the intolerable bigotry of
Aurungzib, and the erection of mosques on their sites. Among the
objects of attraction in the environs of the city, he particularly notices
a famous footprint[8] upon stone, called the _Kadmsherif_, or holy
mark, deposited in a mosque near the serai of Aurungabad, and said to
have been brought from Mekka by Sheik Mohammed Ali Hazin, whom the
translator of his interesting autobiography (published in 1830 by
the Oriental Society) has made known to the British public, up to the
period when the tyranny of Nadir Shah drove him from Persia.

"Here, during his lifetime, he used to go sometimes on a Thursday,
and give alms to the poor in the name of God. He was a very learned and
accomplished man; and his writings, both in prose and verse, were
equal to those of Zahiri and Naziri.

When he first came to India, he resided for some years at Delhi; but
having had some dispute with the poet-laureate of the Emperor Mohammed
Shah, he found himself under the necessity of retiring to Benares, where
he lived in great privacy. As he was a stranger in the country, was
engaged in no calling or profession, and received no allowance from the
Emperor, it was never known whence, or how, he was supplied with
the means of keeping up the establishment he did, which consisted
of some hundred servants, palanquins, horses, &c.

It is said that when the Nawab Shujah-ed-dowlah projected his
attack on the English in Bengal, he consulted the Sheik on the subject,
who strongly dissuaded him from the undertaking. He died shortly
after the battle of Buxar in 1180," (A.D. 1766.)

The battle of Buxar was fought Oct. 23, 1764; but that Sheik Ali
Hazin died somewhere about this time, seems more probable than that
his life was extended (as stated by Sir Gore Ouseley) till 1779;
since he describes himself at the conclusion of his memoirs in 1742,
when only in his 53d year, as "leading the dullest course of existence
in the dullest of all dull countries, and disabled by his increasing
infirmities from any active exertion of either body or mind"--a
state of things scarcely promising a prolongation of life to the
age of ninety

.

[8] These sacred footmarks are more numerous among the Buddhists than
the Moslems--the most celebrated is that on the summit of Adam's
Peak, in Ceylon.

Resuming his voyage from Benares, the Khan notices with wonder the
apparition of the steamers plying between Calcutta and Allahabad,
several of which he met on his course, and regarded with the
astonishment natural in one who had never before seen a ship impelled,
apparently by smoke, against wind and tide:--"I need hardly say
how intensely I watched every movement of this extraordinary, and
to me incomprehensible machine, which in its passage created such
a vast commotion in the waters, that my poor little _budjrow_
(pinnace) felt its effects for the space of full two _hos_," (nearly
four miles.)

The picturesque situation of the city of Azimabad or Patna,[9] extending
for several miles along the right bank of the Ganges, with the villas
and beautiful gardens of the resident English interspersed among
the houses, is described in terms of high admiration; and the mosques,
some of which were as old as the time of the Patan emperors, are not
forgotten by our Moslem traveller in his enumeration of the marvels of
the city. A few days' more boating brought him to Rajmahal; "on one
side of which," says he, "the country is called Bengal, and on the other
_Poorb_, or the East"--a name from which the independent dynasty
of Moslem kings, who once ruled in Bengal, assumed the appellation
of _Poorby-Shaby_.

He was now among the rice-fields, the extent and luxuriance of
which surprised him: "There are a great variety of sorts, and if a man
were to take a grain of each sort he might soon fill a _lota_
(water-pot) with them--so innumerable are the different kinds. The
cultivators who have measured the largest species, have declared
them to exceed the length of fifty cubits; but I have never seen
any of this length, though others may have."

He now entered the Bhagirutti, or branch of the Ganges leading to Calcutta,
and which bears in the lower part of its course the better known
name of the Hoogly--while the main stream to the left is again
subdivided into innumerable ramifications, the greater part of which
lose themselves among the vast marshes of the Sunderbunds; but he
complains, that "though by this branch large vessels and steamers
pass up and down to and from the Presidency, the route is very bad,
from the extensive jungles on both banks, which are haunted by Thugs
and _Decoits_, (river pirates:)--indeed I have heard and read, that
the shores of the Ganges have been infested by freebooters, pirates,
and thieves of all sorts, from time immemorial."

He would help her thread her needles, and hold his
hands out to make a winding frame for the skeins; and more than once,
with the familiarity of an old playmate, he would pinch her
mischievously through the embroidery hoop. And she would never miss the
chance to scream scandal.

"Rafael, don't be crazy," his mother would say, threatening him
indulgently with her withered forefinger. "Let Remedios work; if you
carry on so I won't let you come into the parlor."

And at night, alone in the dining-room with don Andrés, when the hour
of confidences came, doña Bernarda would forget the affairs of "the
House" and of "the Party," to say with satisfaction:

"It's going better."

"Is Rafael taking to her?"

"More and more every day. We're getting there, we're getting there! That
boy is the living image of his father when it comes to matters like
this. Believe me, you can't let one of that tribe out of your sight a
minute. If I didn't keep my eye peeled, that young devil would be doing
something that would discredit the House forever."

And the good woman was sure that Doctor Moreno's daughter--that
abominable creature whose good looks had been her nightmare for some
months past--no longer existed for Rafael.

She knew, from her spies, that on one market morning the two had met on
the street in town. Rafael had looked the other way, as if trying to
avoid her; the "_comica_" had turned pale and walked straight ahead
pretending not to see him. What did that mean?... A break for good of
course! The impudent hussy was livid with rage, you see, perhaps because
she could not trap her Rafael again; for he, weary of such
uncleanliness, had abandoned her forever. Ah, the lost soul, the
indecent gad-about! Excuse me! Was a woman to educate a son in the
soundest and most virtuous principles, make a somebody of him, and then
have an adventuress come along, a thousand times worse than a common
street-woman, and carry him off, as nice as you please, in her filthy
hands? What had the daughter of that scamp of a doctor thought?... Let
her fume! "You're sore just because you see he's dumped you for good!"

In the joy of her triumph doña Bernarda was thinking anxiously of her
son's marriage to Remedios, and, coming down one peg on the ladder of
her dignity toward don Matias, she began to treat the exporter as a
member of the family, commenting contentedly upon the growing affection
that united their two children.

"Well, if they're fond of each other," said the rustic magnate, "the
wedding can take place tomorrow so far as I'm concerned. Remedios means
a good deal to me; hard to find a girl like her for running a house; but
that needn't interfere with the marriage. I'm mighty well satisfied,
doña Bernarda, that we should be related through our children. I'm only
sorry that don Ramon isn't here to see it all."

And that was true. The one thing lacking to the millionaire's perfect
joy was that he would never have the chance to treat the tall, imposing
Don Ramon on equal terms for once,--the crowning triumph of a self-made
man.

Doña Bernarda, too, saw in this union the realization of her fondest
dreams: money joined to power; the millions of a business, whose
marvelous successes seemed like deliberate tricks of Chance, coming to
revivify with their sap of gold the Brull family tree, which was showing
the signs of age and long years of struggle!

Spring had come on apace. to the consternation of all parties, it appeared
that the General's title was an unsound one; that by the general terms
of this ancient property, rights of heirship could only be evaded
by the payment of a certain fine, after intimation of sale in a
certain form to the nearest-of-kin of the heir in possession,
which form had been overlooked or wantonly neglected by Sir Laurence
Altham!

The discovery was indeed embarrassing. Fortunately, however, the sum of
ten thousand pounds only had been paid by the General to satisfy the
immediate funds of the unthrifty baronet; the remainder of the
purchase-money having been left in the form of mortgage on the
property.

There was consequently the less difficulty, though considerable expense,
in cancelling the existing deeds, going through the necessary
forms, and, after paying the forfeiture to the heir, (to whom the
very existence of his claims was unknown,) renewing the contract
with Sir Laurence; to whom, so considerable a sum being still owing,
it was as essential as to General Stanley that the covenant should
be completed without delay.

But all this occurred at so critical a moment, that the General had ample
cause to be thankful for the promptitude with which he decided
Selina's marriage; for only four days after the signature of the new
deeds, Sir Laurence concluded his ill-spent life--his death being,
it was thought, accelerated by the excitement consequent on this
strange discovery, and the investigations on the part of the heir
to which it was giving rise.

For the clause in the original grant of the Lexley estate (which dated
from the Reformation) affected the property purchased by Jonas
Sparks as fully as that which had been assigned to the General; and
the baronet being now deceased, there was no possibility of
co-operation in rectifying the fatal error.

It was more than probable, therefore, that Lexley Park, with all its
improvements, was now the property of John Julius Altham, Esq.!--the
only dilemma still to be decided by the law, being the extent to which,
his kinsman having died insolvent and intestate, he was liable to
the suit of Jonas Sparks for the return of the purchase money, amounting
to L.145,000.

Already the fatal intelligence had been communicated by the attorneys
of John Julius Altham to those of the astonished man, who, though
still convinced of the goodness of his cause, (which, on the strength
of certain various statutes affecting such a case, he was advised
to contest to the utmost,) foresaw a long, vexatious, and expensive
lawsuit, that would certainly last his life, and prevent the
possibility of one moment's enjoyment of the estate, from which he
had received the usual notice of ejection.

Fortunately for him, the present Mr Altham was not only a gentleman,
and disposed to exercise his rights in the most decorous manner;
but, of course, unbiassed by the personal prejudices so strongly
felt by Sir Laurence, and so unfairly communicated by him to the
General.

Still, the question was proceeding at the snail's pace rate of Chancery
suits at the commencement of the present century, and the unfortunate
Congleton manufacturer had every reason to curse the day when he
had become enamoured of the grassy glades and rich woodlands of
Lexley; seeing that, at the close of an honourable and well-spent
life, he was uncertain whether the sons and daughters to whom he
had laboured to bequeath a handsome independence, might not be
reduced to utter destitution.

Such was the intelligence that saluted the ill-starred Mary and her
husband on their return to England! Instead of the brilliant prospects
in which she had been nurtured--disinheritance met her on the one
side, and ruin on the other!

Her vindictive father had even made it a condition of his bounties
to Lord and Lady Robert, that all intercourse should cease between them
and their sister; a condition which the former, in revenge for the early
slights of his fairer cousin, took care should be punctually obeyed
by his wife.

Till the event of the trial, Mr Sparks retained, of course, possession
of the Park; but so bitter was the mortification of the family, on discovering
in the village precisely the same ungrateful feeling which had so embittered
the soul of Sir Laurence, that they preferred remaining in London--where
no one has leisure to dwell upon the mischances of his neighbours, and
where sympathy is as little expected as conceded. But when Mary
arrived--_poor_ Mary! who had now the prospect of becoming a mother--and
who, though affectionately beloved by her husband's family, saw
they regarded her as the innocent origin of their present reverses--she
soon persuaded her husband to accompany her to her old haunts.

"Do not imagine, dearest," said she, "that I have any project of debasing
you and myself, by intruding into my father's presence. Had we been
still prosperous, Everard, I would have gone to him--knelt to him--prayed
to him--wept to him--_so_ earnestly, that his forgiveness could not
have been long withheld from the child he loved so dearly. I
would have described to him all you are to me--all your indulgences--all
your devotion--and _you_, too, my own husband, would have been
forgiven.

But as it is, believe me, I have too proud a sense of what is due
to ourselves, to combat the unnatural hostility in which my sister
and her husband appear to take their share. O Everard!
to think of Selina becoming the wife of that coarse and heartless
man, of whom, in former times, she thought even more contemptuously
than I; and who, with his dissolute habits, can only have made my
poor afflicted sister his wife from the most mercenary motives! I
dread to think of what may be her fate hereafter, when, having obtained
at my father's death all the advantages to which he looks forward,
he will show himself in his true colours."

Thus, even with such terrible prospects awaiting herself, the good,
generous Mary trembled only to contemplate those of her regardless
sister; and it was chiefly for the delight of revisiting the spots
where they had played together in childhood--the fondly-remembered
environs of Stanley Manor--that she persuaded her husband to take up his
abode in the deserted mansion at the Park, where, from prudential
motives, Mr Sparks had broken up his establishment, and sold off
his horses.

Attended by a single servant, in addition to the old porter and his wife
who were in charge of the house, Mary trusted that their arrival at
Lexley would be unnoticed in the neighbourhood. Confining herself strictly
within the boundaries of the Park, which neither her father nor the
bride and bridegroom were likely to enter, she conceived that she might
enjoy, on her husband's arm, those solitary rambles of which every day
circumscribed the extent; without affording reason to the General
to suppose, when, discerning every morning from his lofty terraces
the mansion of his falling enemy, that, in place of the man he
loathed, it contained his discarded child.

The dispirited young woman, on the other hand, delighted in contemplating
from the windows of her dressing-room the towers beneath, whose
shelter she had abided in such perfect happiness with her doating
father and apparently attached sister. They loved her no longer, it is
true. Perhaps it was her fault--(she would not allow herself to
conceive it could be a fault of _theirs_)--but at all events she loved
_them_ dearly as ever; and it was comforting to her poor heart to
catch a glimpse of their habitation, and know herself within reach,
should sickness or evil betide.

"If I should not survive my approaching time," thought Mary, often
surveying for hours, through her tears, the heights of Lexley Hall, and
fancying she could discern human figures moving from window to window,
or from terrace to terrace; "if I should be fated never to behold
this child, already loved--this child which is to be so dear a
blessing to us both--in my last hours my father would not surely
refuse to give me his blessing; nor would Selina persist in her
present cruel alienation.

It is, indeed, a comfort to be here."
Her husband thought otherwise. To him nothing was more trying than
this compulsory sojourn at Lexley; not that he required other society
than that of his engaging and attached wife. At any other moment
it would have been delightful to him to enjoy the country pleasures around
them, with no officious intrusive world to interpose between their
affection.

But in his present uncertainty as to his future prospects, to be
mocked by this empty show of proprietorship, and have constantly before
his eyes the residence of the man who had heaped such contumely
on his head, and inflicted such pain on the gentlest and sweetest of
human hearts, was a state of moral torment.

In the course of my fishing excursions--(for, thanks to Mr Sparks's
neighbourly liberality, I had a card of general access to his
parks)--I frequently met the young couple; and having no clue to their
secret sentiments, noticed, with deep regret, the sadness of Mary's
countenance and sinister looks of her husband. I feared--I greatly
feared--that they were not happy together.

The General's daughter repined, perhaps, after her former fortunes.
The young husband sighed, doubtless, over the liberty he had renounced.

It was spring time, and Lord Robert having satisfied his cravings
after the pleasures of London, by occasional bachelor visits on
pretence of business, the family were to remain at the Hall till
after the Easter holidays, so that Mary had every expectation of
the accomplishment of her hopes previous to their departure.

Perhaps, in the bottom of her heart, she flattered herself that, on
hearing of her safety, her obdurate relations might be moved, by a
sudden burst of pity and kindliness, to make overtures of reconciliation--at
all events to dispatch words of courteous enquiry; for she was ever
dwelling on her good fortune that her father should, on this particular
year, have so retarded the usual period of his departure.
Yet when the report of these exulting exclamations on her part
reached my ear, I was ungenerous enough to attribute them to a very
different origin, fancying that the poor submissive creature was
thankful for being within reach of protection from conjugal
misusage.

Meanwhile, she was so far justified in one portion of her premises,
that no tidings of her residence at Lexley Park had as yet reached
the ear of her father.

The fact was, that not a soul had courage to do so much as mention,
in his presence, the name of his once idolized child; and Lord Robert,
having been apprized of the circumstance, instantly exacted a promise
from his wife, that nothing should induce her to hazard her father's
displeasure by communication with her sister, or by acquainting the
General of the arrival of the offending pair. The consequence was, that
in the dread of encountering her sister, (whom she felt ashamed to
meet as the wife of the man they had so often decried together,)
Lady Robert rarely quitted the house; and these two sisters, so long
the affectionate inmates of the same chamber--the sisters who had
wept together over their mother's deathbed--abided within sight
of each other's windows, yet estranged as with the estrangement of
strangers.

And then, we pretend to talk with horror of the family feuds of southern
nations; and, priding ourselves on our calm and passionless nature,
feel convinced that all the domestic virtues extant on earth, have taken
refuge in the British empire!

Every day, meanwhile, I noticed that the handsome countenance of
Everard Sparks grew gloomier and gloomier; and how was I to know that
every day he received letters from his father, announcing the unfavourable
aspect of their suit; and that (owing, as was supposed, to the
suggestions of General Stanley's solicitors) even the conduct of
the adverse party was becoming offensive.

The elder Sparks wrote like a man overwhelmed with mortification, and stung
by a sense of undeserved injury; and his appeals to the sympathy and
support of his son, were such as to place the spirited young man in a
most painful predicament as regarded the family of his wife.

Unwilling to utter in her presence an injurious word concerning those
who, persecute her as they might, were still her nearest and dearest by
the indissoluble ties of nature, all he could do, in relief to his
overcharged feelings, was to rush forth into the Park, and curse the day
that he was born to behold all he loved in the world overwhelmed
in one common ruin.

On such occasions, while pretending to fix my attention on my float
upon the river, I often watched him from afar, till I was terrified
by the frantic vehemence of his gestures. There was almost reason
to fancy that the evil influences of the old Hall were extending
their power over the valley; and that this distracted young man was
falling into the eccentricities of Sir Laurence Altham.

After viewing with anxiety the wild deportment of poor Mary's husband, I
happened one day to pass along the lane I have described as skirting the
garden of the manor-house, on my way homewards to my farm; and on plunging
my eyes, as usual, into the verdant depths of the clipped yew-walks,
visible through the iron-palisades, was struck by the contrast afforded
to the scene I had just witnessed, not only by its aristocratic
tranquillity, but by the grave and subdued deportment of Lady
Robert Stanley, who was sauntering in one of the alleys, accompanied
by a favourite dog I had often seen following her sister in former
days, and looking the very picture of contented egotism.

I almost longed to call aloud to her, and confide all I knew and all that
I supposed. But what right had I to create alarms in her sister's
behalf? What right had I to incite her to disobedience against the
father on whom she and her husband were dependent?

Better leave things as they were--the common philosophy of selfish, timid
people, afraid of exposing their own heads to a portion of the
storm their interference may chance to bring down, while assisting
the cause of the weak against the strong.

I used often to go home and think of poor Mary till my heart ached.

That young and beautiful creature--that creature till lately so beloved--to
be thus cruelly abandoned, thus helpless, thus unhappy!
Perhaps not a soul sympathizing with her but myself--an obscure, low-born,
uninfluential man, of no more value as a protector than a willow-wand
shivered from the Lexley plantations! Not so much as the merest trifle
in which I could demonstrate my good-will.

I thought and thought it over, and there was nothing I could do--nothing
I could offer. When I _did_ hit upon some pretext of kindness, I
only did amiss. The fruit season was not begun--nay, the orchards were
only in blossom--and times were over for forcing-houses at Lexley
Park!
Thinking, therefore, that the invalid might be pleased with a basket of
Jersey pears, of which a very fine kind grew in my orchard, I
ventured to send some to her address.

But the very next time I encountered Everard in the village, he cast a
look at me as if he would have killed me for my officiousness, or,
perhaps, for taking the liberty to suppose that Lexley Park was less
luxuriously provisioned than in former years. Nor was it till long
afterwards I discovered that my old housekeeper (who had taken upon herself
to carry my humble offering to the park) had not only seen the poor
young lady, but been foolish enough to talk of Lady Robert in a tone
which appears to have exercised a cruel influence over her gentle
heart; so that, when her husband returned home from rabbit-shooting,
an hour afterwards, he found her recovering from a fainting fit,
he visited upon _me_ the folly of my servant; and such was the cause
of his angry looks.

A few days afterwards, however, he had far more to reproach his conscience
withal than poor Barbara. Having no concealments from his wife, to whom
he was in the habit of avowing every emotion of his heart, he was
rash enough to mention of having met the travelling carriage of
Lord and Lady Robert on the London road.

They had quitted the Hall ten days previous to the epoch originally
fixed for their departure.

"Gone--exactly gone!--already at two hundred miles' distance from me!"
cried poor Mary, nothing doubting that her father had, as usual,
accompanied them, and feeling herself now, for the first time, alone
in the dreary seclusion to which she had condemned herself, only that
she might breathe the same atmosphere with those she loved.

"Yet they had certainly decided to remain at the Hall till after
Easter! Perhaps they discovered my being here, and the discovery hastened
their journey.

Unhappy creature that I am, to have become thus hateful to those in whose
veins my blood is flowing! Everard, Everard!

O, what have I done that God should thus abandon me?"
The soothing and affectionate remonstrances now addressed to her by her
husband, had so far a good effect, that they softened her despair
to tears.

Long and unrestrainedly did she weep upon his shoulder; tried to
comfort him by the assurance that _she_ was comforted, or at least
that she would endeavour to _seek_ comfort from the protection and
goodness whence it had been so often derived.

A few minutes afterwards, having been persuaded by Everard to rest
herself on the sofa, to recover the effects of the agitation his
indiscreet communication had excited, she suddenly complained of
cold, and begged him to close the windows.

It was a balmy April day, with a genial sun shining fresh into the room.
The air was as the air of midsummer--one of those days on which
you almost see the small green leaves of spring bursting from their
shelly covering, and the resinous buds of the chestnut-trees expanding
into maturity.

Poor Everard saw at once that the chilliness of which his wife complained
must be the effect of illness.

More cautious, however, on this occasion than before, he enquired, as
her shivering increased, what preparations she had made for the events
which still left her some weeks for execution.
"None.

His sisters had kindly undertaken to supply her with all she might
require; and the services of the nurse accustomed to attend his married
sister, were engaged on her behalf. At the end of the month this woman
was to arrive at Lexley, bringing with her the wardrobe of the
little treasure who was to accord renewed peace and happiness to
its mother."

Though careful to conceal his anxiety from his wife, Everard Sparks,
disappointed and distressed, quitted the room in haste to send for
the medical man who had long been the attendant of his family. But
before he arrived, the shivering fit of the poor sufferer had increased
to an alarming degree.

A calming potion was administered, and orders issued that she was to
be kept quiet; but in the consternation created in the little
household by the communication Dr R. thought it necessary to make
of the possibility of a premature confinement, poor Mrs Sparks's
maid, a young inexperienced woman, dispatched a messenger to my
house for her old kinswoman, and it was through Barbara I became
acquainted with the melancholy incidents I am about to relate.

The sedatives administered failed in their effect.
She drives me on I don't know where, but certainly where I
ought not to go.... If it weren't for sheer will-power on my part, I'd
collapse in a heap on this bench here. I'm just like a drunken man
bending every effort to keep his feet and walk straight."

It was true; she was really ill. Her eyes grew more and more tearful;
her body was quivering, shrinking, collapsing, as if life were
overflowing within her and escaping through all her pores.

Again she was silent, for a long time, her eyes gazing vacantly into
space; then, she murmured, as if in answer to a thought of her own.

"No one ever understood as well as He. He knew everything, felt as
nobody ever felt the mysterious hidden workings of Nature; and He sang
of Springtime as a god would sing. Hans used to remark that many a time;
and it's so."

Without turning her head she added, in a dreamy musing voice.

"Rafael, you don't know _Die Walküre_, do you? You've never heard the
Spring Song?"

He shook his head. And Leonora, with her eyes still gazing moonward, her
head resting back against her arms, which escaped in all their round,
pearly strength from her drooping sleeves, spoke slowly, collecting her
memories, recreating in her mind's eye that Wagnerian scene of such
intense poetry--the glorification and the triumph of Nature and Love.

Hunding's hut, a barbaric dwelling, hung with savage trophies of the
chase, suggesting the brutish existence of man scarcely yet possessed of
the world, in perpetual strife with the elements and with wild animals.
The eternal fugitive, forgotten of his father,--Sigmund by name, though
he calls himself "Despair," wandering years and years through the
forests, harrassed by beasts of prey who take him for one of themselves
in his covering of skins, rests at last at the foot of the giant oak
that sustains the hut; and as he drinks the hidromel in the horn offered
to him by the sweet Siglinda, he gazes into her pure eyes and for the
first time becomes aware that Love exists.

The husband, Hunding, the wild huntsman, takes leave of him at the end
of the rustic supper: "Your father was the Wolf, and I am of the race of
Hunters. Until the break of day, my house protects you; you are my
guest; but as soon as the sun rises in the heavens you become my enemy,
and we will fight.... Woman, prepare the night's drink; and let us be
off to bed."

And the exile sits alone beside the fireplace, thinking of his immense
loneliness. No home, no family, not even the magic sword promised him by
his father the Wolf. And at daybreak, out of the hut that shelters him
the enemy will come to slay him. The thought of the woman who allayed
his thirst, the sparkle of those pure eyes wrapping him in a gaze of
pity and love, is the one thing that sustains him.... She comes to him
when her wild consort has fallen asleep. She shows him the hilt of the
sword plunged into the oak by the god Wotan; nobody can pull it out: it
will obey only the hand of him to whom it has been destined by the god.

As she speaks the wandering savage gazes at her in ecstasy, as if she
were a white vision revealing to him the existence of something more
than might and struggle in the world. It is the voice of Love. Slowly he
draws near; embraces her; clasps her to his heart, while the door is
pushed open by the breeze and the green forest appears, odorous in the
moonlight--nocturnal Springtime, radiant and glorious, wrapped in a
mantle of music and perfume.

Siglinda shudders. "Who has come in?" No one--and yet, a Stranger has
entered the hovel, opening the door with an invisible hand. And Sigmund,
at the inspiration of Love, divines the identity of the visitant. "It is
Springtime laughing in the air about your tresses. The storms are gone;
gone is the dark solitude. The radiant month of May, a young warrior in
an armor of flowers, has come to give chase to bleak Winter, and in all
this festival of rejoicing Nature, seeks his sweetheart: Youth. This
night, which has brought you to me, is the unending night of Spring and
Youth."

And, Leonora was thrilled as she heard in her memory the murmur of the
orchestra accompanying the song of tenderness inspired by Spring; the
rustle of the forest branches benumbed by the winter, now swaying with
the new sap that had flowed into them like a torrent of vitality; and
out on the brightly lighted _plazoleta_ she could almost see Sigmund and
Siglinda clasping in an eternal unseverable embrace, as she had seen
them from the wings of the opera, where she would be waiting as a
Valkyrie to step out and set an audience wild with her mighty
"_Hojotoho!"_

She was feeling the same loneliness and yearning that Sigmund felt in
Hunding's hovel. Without a family, without a home, wandering over the
world, she longed for someone to lean on, someone to clasp tenderly to
her heart! And it was she who unconsciously, instinctively, had drawn
closer to Rafael, and placed her hand in his.

She was ill. She sighed softly with the appealing entreaty of a child,
as if the intense poetry of that memory of music had shattered the frail
remnant of will that had kept her mistress of herself.

"I don't know what's the matter with me to-night. I feel as though I
were dying.... But such a sweet death! So sweet!... What madness,
Rafael! How rash it was of us to have seen each other on such a
night!..."

And with supplicating eyes, as if entreating forgiveness, she gazed out
into the majestic moonlight, where the silence seemed to be stirring
with the palpitation of a new life. She could divine that something was
dying within her, that her will lay prostrate on the ground, without
strength to defend itself.

Rafael, too, was overwhelmed. He held her clasped against his breast,
one of her hands in his. She was weak, languid, will-less, incapable of
resistance; yet he did not feel the brutal passion of the previous
meeting; he did not dare to move. A sense of infinite tenderness came
over him. All he yearned for was to sit there hour after hour in contact
with that beautiful form, clasping her tightly to him, making her one
with him, as a jewel-case might guard a jewel.

He whispered mysteriously into her ear, hardly knowing what he was
saying; tender words that seemed to be coming from someone within him,
thrilling him with a tingling, suffocating passion as they left his
lips.

Yes, it was true; that night was the night dreamed of by the immortal
Poet; the wedding night of smiling Youth and of martial May in his armor
of flowers. The fields were quivering voluptuously under the rays of the
moon; and they, two young hearts, feeling the flutter of Love's wings
about their hair, why should they sit unresponsive there, blind to the
beauty of the night, deaf to the infinite caress that was echoing from
all around?

"Leonora! Leonora!" moaned Rafael.

He had slipped down from the bench. Before he was aware of it, he found
himself kneeling at her feet, clutching her hands, and thrusting his
face upward without daring to reach her lips.

She drew weakly back, protesting feebly, with a girlish plaint:

"No, no; it would hurt me.... I feel that I'm dying."

"You belong to me," the youth continued with an exaltation
ill-suppressed. "You belong to me forever; to gaze into your dear eyes,
and to murmur in your ear, your sweet, beautiful, name, and die, if need
be, here. What do we care for the world and its opinions?"

And Leonora with weakening resistance, continued to refuse:

"No, no.... I must not. It's a feeling I can't explain."

And that was so. He considers, with Kant, that space is only
that _form_ with which the human mind invests things--that it has
no other than this merely mental existence--is purely subjective.
Presuming, therefore, that the mind is, from its constitution,
utterly and for ever unable to conceive the opposite of certain
truths, (those, for instance, of geometry;) yet as the existence of
space itself is but a subjective truth, it must follow that all
other truths relating to it are subjective also.

The mind is not conversant with things in themselves, in the truths even
of geometry; nor is there any positive objective truth in one department
of science more than another.

Mr Whewell, therefore, though he advocates this distinction between
necessary and contingent truth with a zeal which would seem to imply
that something momentous, or of peculiar interest, was connected
with it, can advocate it only as a matter of abstract metaphysical
science.

He cannot participate in that feeling of exaltation and mystery which has
led many to expatiate upon a necessary and absolute truth which the
Divine Power itself cannot alter, which is equally irresistible,
equally binding and compulsory, with God as with man.

Of this spirit of philosophical enthusiasm Mr Whewell cannot partake. Space
and Time, with all their properties and phenomena, are but
recognized as the modes of thought of a human intelligence.

We have marked a number of passages for annotation and extract--a
far greater number than we can possibly find place for alluding to.

One subject, however, which lies at the very basis of all our science, and
which has received a proportionate attention from Mr Mill, must
not be amongst those which are passed over.

We mean the law of _Causation_.
What should be described as the complete and adequate notion of a cause,
we need not say is one of the moot points of philosophy.

According to one school of metaphysicians, there is in our notion
of cause an element not derived from experience, which, it is
confessed on all hands, can teach us only the _succession_ of events.

Cause, with them, is that invisible power, that mysterious bond, which
this succession does but signify: with other philosophers this
succession constitutes the whole of any intelligible notion we have of
cause.

The latter opinion is that of Mr Mill; at the same time the question
is one which lies beyond or beside the scope of his volumes. He is
concerned only with phenomena, not with the knowledge (if such
there be) of "things in themselves;" that part, therefore, of our
idea of cause which, according to all systems of philosophy, is won
from experience, and concerns phenomena alone, is sufficient for
his purpose.

That every event has a cause, that is, a previous and uniformly previous
event, and that whatever has happened will, in the like circumstances,
happen again--these are the assumptions necessary to science, and
these no one will dispute.

Mr Mill has made a happy addition to the usual definition of cause given
by that class of metaphysicians to which he himself belongs, and which
obviates a plausible objection urged against it by Dr Reid and
others.

These have argued, that if cause be nothing more than invariable antecedence,
then night may be said to be the cause of day, for the one invariably
precedes the other. Day does succeed to night, but only on certain
conditions--namely, that the sun rise.

"The succession," observes Mr Mill, "which is equivalent and synonymous
to cause, must be not only invariable but unconditional. We may define,
therefore," says our author, "the cause of a phenomenon to be the
antecedent, or the concurrence of antecedents, upon which it is
invariably and _unconditionally_ consequent."--Vol. I. p. 411.

A dilemma may be raised of this kind. The universality of the law of
causation--in other words, the uniform course of nature--is the fundamental
principle on which all induction proceeds, the great premise on
which all our science is founded.

But if this law itself be the result only of experience, itself only a
great instance of induction, so long as nature presents cases requiring
investigation, where the causes are unknown to us, so long the
law itself is imperfectly established. How, then, can this law be a guide
and a premiss in the investigations of science, when those
investigations are necessary to complete the proof of the law itself?

How can this principle accompany and authorise every step we take
in science, which itself needs confirmation so long as a process
of induction remains to be performed?

Or how can this law be established by a series of inductions, in making
which it has been taken for granted?

Objections which wear the air of a quibble have often this advantage--they
put our knowledge to the test. The obligation to find a complete answer
clears up our own conceptions.

The observations which Mr Mill makes on this point, we shall quote at
length. They are taken from his chapter on the _Evidence of the
Law of Universal Causation_; the views in which are as much distinguished
for boldness as for precision.

After having said, that in all the several methods of induction the
universality of the law of causation is assumed, he continues:--
"But is this assumption warranted?

Doubtless (it may be said) _most_ phenomena are connected as effects with
some antecedent or cause--that is, are never produced unless some
assignable fact has preceded them; but the very circumstance, that
complicated processes of induction are sometimes necessary, shows
that cases exist in which this regular order of succession is not
apparent to our first and simplest apprehension.

If, then, the processes which bring these cases within the same category
with the rest, require that we should assume the universality of the
very law which they do not at first sight appear to exemplify, is not
this a real _petitio principii_?

Can we prove a proposition by an argument which takes it for granted?
And, if not so proved, on what evidence does it rest?

"For this difficulty, which I have purposely stated in the strongest
terms it would admit of, the school of metaphysicians, who have long
predominated in this country, find a ready salvo. They affirm that
the universality of causation is a truth which we cannot help believing;
that the belief in it is an instinct, one of the laws of our believing
faculty. As the proof of this they say, and they have nothing else
to say, that every body _does_ believe it; and they number it among the
propositions, rather numerous in their catalogue, which may be
logically argued against, and perhaps cannot be logically proved,
but which are of higher authority than logic, and which even he who
denies in speculation, shows by his habitual practice that his
arguments make no impression on himself.

"I have no intention of entering into the merits of this question,
as a problem of transcendental metaphysics.

But I must renew my protest against adducing, as evidence of the truth
of a fact in external nature, any necessity which the human mind may
be conceived to be under of believing it.

It is the business of human intellect to adapt itself to the realities
of things, and not to measure those realities by its own capacities of
comprehension. The same quality which fits mankind for the offices
and purposes of their own little life, the tendency of their belief
to follow their experience, incapacitates them for judging of what
lies beyond.

Not only what man can know, but what he can conceive, depends upon what
he has experienced. Whatever forms a part of all his experience, forms
a part also of all his conceptions, and appears to him universal and
necessary, though really, for aught he knows, having no existence
beyond certain narrow limits.

The habit, however, of philosophical analysis, of which it is the surest
effect to enable the mind to command, instead of being commanded
by, the laws of the merely passive part of its own nature, and which, by
showing to us that things are not necessarily connected in fact
because their ideas are connected in our minds, is able to loosen
innumerable associations which reign despotically over the undisciplined
mind; this habit is not without power even over those associations
which the philosophical school, of which I have been speaking,
regard as connate and instinctive.

I am convinced that any one accustomed to abstraction and analysis, who
will fairly exert his faculties for the purpose, will, when his imagination
has once learned to entertain the notion, find no difficulty in conceiving
that in some one, for instance, of the many firmaments into which
sidereal astronomy now divides the universe, events may succeed one
another at random, without any fixed law; nor can any thing in our
experience, or in our mental nature, constitute a sufficient, or
indeed any, reason for believing that this is nowhere the case.

The grounds, therefore, which warrant us in rejecting such a supposition
with respect to any of the phenomena of which we have experience, must
be sought elsewhere than in any supposed necessity of our intellectual
faculties.

"As was observed in a former place, the belief we entertain in the
universality, throughout nature, of the law of cause and effect, is
itself an instance of induction; and by no means one of the earliest
which any of us, or which mankind in general, can have made.

We arrive at this universal law by generalisation from many laws of inferior
generality. The generalising propensity which, instinctive or not,
is one of the most powerful principles of our nature, does not indeed
wait for the period when such a generalisation becomes strictly legitimate.
The mere unreasoning propensity to expect what has been often
experienced, doubtless led men to believe that every thing had a
cause, before they could have conclusive evidence of that truth.

But even this cannot be supposed to have happened until many cases of
causation, or, in other words, many partial uniformities of sequence,
had become familiar. The more obvious of the particular uniformities
suggest and prove the general uniformity; and that general uniformity,
once established, enables us to prove the remainder of the particular
uniformities of which it is made up. * * *
"With respect to the general law of causation, it does appear that
there must have been a time when the universal prevalence of that law
throughout nature could not have been affirmed in the same confident
and unqualified manner as at present. There was a time when many of the
phenomena of nature must have appeared altogether capricious and
irregular, not governed by any laws, nor steadily consequent upon
any causes.

Such phenomena, indeed, were commonly, in that early stage of human
knowledge, ascribed to the direct intervention of the will of some
supernatural being, and therefore still to a cause. This shows the
strong tendency of the human mind to ascribe every phenomenon to
some cause or other; but it shows also that experience had not, at
that time, pointed out any regular order in the occurrence of those
particular phenomena, nor proved them to be, as we now know that
they are, dependent upon prior phenomena as their proximate causes.

There have been sects of philosophers who have admitted what they
termed Chance as one of the agents in the order of nature by which
certain classes of events were entirely regulated; which could only
mean that those events did not occur in any fixed order, or depend upon
uniform laws of causation.

* * *
"The progress of experience, therefore, has dissipated the doubt
which must have rested upon the universality of the law of causation,
while there were phenomena which seemed to be _sui generis_; not
subject to the same laws with any other class of phenomena, and not as
yet ascertained to have peculiar laws of their own. This great
generalisation, however, might reasonably have been, as it in fact
was by all great thinkers, acted upon as a probability of the highest
order, before there were sufficient grounds for receiving it as a
certainty.

For, whatever has been found true in innumerable instances, and never found
to be false after due examination in any, we are safe in acting upon
as universal provisionally, until an undoubted exception appears;
provided the nature of the case be such that a real exception could
scarcely have escaped our notice.

When every phenomenon that we ever knew sufficiently well to be able to
answer the question, had a cause on which it was invariably consequent,
it was more rational to suppose that our inability to assign the causes
of other phenomena arose from our ignorance, than that there were
phenomena which were uncaused, and which happened accidentally to
be exactly those which we had hitherto had no sufficient opportunity
of studying."

--Vol. II. p. 108.

_Hypotheses._--Mr Mill's observations on the use of hypotheses in scientific
investigation, except that they are characterized by his peculiar
distinctness and accuracy of thought, do not differ from the views
generally entertained by writers on the subject. We are induced to
refer to the topic, to point out what seems to us a harsh measure
dealt out to the undulatory theory of light--harsh when compared with
the reception given to a theory of Laplace, having for its object to
account for the origin of the planetary system.

We had occasion to quote a passage from Mr Mill, in which he remarks
that the majority of scientific men seem not yet to have completely got
over the difficulty of conceiving matter to act (contrary to the
old maxim) where it is not; "for though," he says, "they have at last
learned to conceive the sun _attracting_ the earth without any
intervening fluid, they cannot yet conceive the sun _illuminating_
the earth without some such medium."

But it is not only this difficulty (which doubtless, however, is felt) of
conceiving the sun illuminating the earth without any medium by which
to communicate its influence, which leads to the construction of the
hypothesis, either of an undulating ether, or of emitted particles.

The analogy of the other senses conducts us almost irresistibly to the
imagination of some such medium. The nerves of sense are, apparently, in
all cases that we can satisfactorily investigate, affected by
contact, by impulse. The nerve of sight itself, we know, when
touched or pressed upon, gives out the sensation of light.

These reasons, in the first place, conduct us to the supposition of some
medium, having immediate communication with the eye; which medium,
though we are far from saying that its existence is established, is
rendered probable by the explanation it affords of optical phenomena.
At the same time it is evident that the hypothesis of an undulating
ether, assumes a fluid or some medium, the existence of which
cannot be directly ascertained.

Thus stands the hypothesis of a luminiferous ether--in what must be allowed
to be a very unsatisfactory condition. But a condition, we think,
very superior to the astronomical speculation of Laplace, which Mr
Mill, after scrutinizing the preceding hypothesis with the utmost strictness,
is disposed to treat with singular indulgence.

"The speculation is," we may as well quote throughout Mr Mill's words,
"that the atmosphere of the sun originally extended to the present limits
of the solar system: from which, by the process of cooling, it has
contracted to its present dimensions; and since, by the general principles
of mechanics, the rotation of the sun and its accompanying atmosphere
must increase as rapidly as its volume diminishes, the increased
centrifugal force generated by the more rapid rotation, overbalancing
the action of gravitation, would cause the sun to abandon successive
rings of vaporous matter, which are supposed to have condensed by
cooling, and to have become our planets.

"There is in this theory," Mr Mill proceeds, "no unknown substance
introduced upon supposition, nor any unknown property or law ascribed
to a known substance. The known laws of matter authorize us to suppose,
that a body which is constantly giving out so large an amount of
heat as the sun is, must be progressively cooling, and that by the
process of cooling it must contract; if, therefore, we endeavour,
from the present state of that luminary, to infer its state in a
time long past, we must necessarily suppose that its atmosphere
extended much further than at present, and we are entitled to suppose
that it extended as far as we can trace those effects which it would
naturally leave behind it on retiring; and such the planets are.

These suppositions being made, it follows from known laws that successive
zones of the solar atmosphere would be abandoned; that these would
continue to revolve round the sun with the same velocity as when they
formed part of his substance, and that they would cool down, long before
the sun himself, to any given temperature, and consequently to that at
which the greater part of the vaporous matter of which they consisted
would become liquid or solid. The known law of gravitation would then
cause them to agglomerate in masses, which would assume the shape our
planets actually exhibit; would acquire, each round its own axis, a
rotatory movement; and would in that state revolve, as the planets
actually do, about the sun, in the same direction with the sun's
rotation, but with less velocity, and each of them in the same
periodic time which the sun's rotation occupied when his atmosphere
extended to that point; and this also M.

Comte has, by the necessary calculations, ascertained to be true, within
certain small limits of error. There is thus in Laplace's theory nothing
hypothetical; it is an example of legitimate reasoning from a present
effect to its past cause, according to the known laws of that case; it
assumes nothing more than that objects which really exist, obey
the laws which are known to be obeyed by all terrestrial objects
resembling them."

--Vol. II.

p. 27.

Now, it seems to us that there is quite as much of hypothesis in
this speculation of Laplace as in the undulatory theory of light. This
atmosphere of the sun extending to the utmost limits of our planetary
system!

All
these people looked down with interest on their deputy. He must have
spent the night fishing. And this news passed from one to the other,
though not a trace of fishing tackle was visible in the boat. How they
envied rich folks, who could sleep all day and spend their time just as
they pleased!

Rafael jumped ashore. All that curiosity he was attracting annoyed him.
His mother would know everything by the time he got home!

As he climbed slowly and wearily, his arms numb from rowing, to the
bridge, he heard his name called.

Don Andrés was standing there, gazing at him out of those yellow eyes of
his, scowling through his wrinkles with an expression of stern
authority.

"You've given me a fine night, Rafael. I know where you've been. I saw
you row off last night with that woman; and plenty of my friends were on
hand to follow you and find out just where you went. You've been on the
island all night; that woman was singing away like a lunatic.... God of
Gods, boy! Aren't there any houses in the world? Do you have to play the
band when you're having an affair, so that everybody in the Kingdom can
come and look?"

The old man was truly riled; all the more because he was himself the
secretive, the dexterous, libertine, adopting every precaution not to be
discovered in his "weaknesses." Was it anger or envy that he felt on
seeing a couple enough in love with each other to be fearless of gossip
and indifferent to danger, to throw prudence to the winds, and flaunt
their passion before the world with the reckless insolence of happiness?

"Besides, your mother knows everything. She's discovered what you've
been up to, these nights past. She knows you haven't been in your room.
You're going to break that woman's heart!"

And with paternal severity he went on to speak of doña Bernarda's
despair, of the danger to the future of the House, of the obligations
they were under to don Matías, of the solemn promise given, of that poor
girl waiting to be married!

Rafael walked along in silence and like an automaton. That old man's
chatter brought down around his head, like a swarm of pestering
mosquitoes, all the provoking, irritating obligations of his life. He
felt like a man rudely awakened by a tactless servant in the middle of a
sweet dream. His lips were still tingling with Leonora's kisses! His
whole body was aglow with her gentle warmth! And here was this old
curmudgeon coming along with a sermon on "duty," "family," "what they
would say"--as if love amounted to nothing in this life! It was a plot
against his happiness, and he felt stirred to the depths with a sense of
outrage and revolt.

They had reached the entrance to the Brull mansion. Rafael was fumbling
about for the key-hole with his key.

"Well," growled the old man. "What have you got to say to all this? What
do you propose to do? Answer me! Haven't you got a tongue in your head?"

"I," replied the young man energetically--"will do as I please."

Don Andrés jumped as though he had been stung. My, how this Rafael had
changed!... Never before had he seen that gleam of aggressiveness,
arrogance, belligerency in the eye of the boy!

"Rafael, is that the way you answer me,--a man who has known you since
you were born? Is that the tone of voice you use toward one who loves
you as your own father loved you?"

"I'm of age, if you don't mind my saying so!" Rafael replied. "I'm not
going to put up any longer with this comedy of being a somebody on the
street and a baby in my own house. Henceforth just keep your advice to
yourself until I ask for it. Good day, sir!"

As he went up the stairs he saw his mother on the first landing, in the
semi-darkness of the closed house, illumined only by the light that
entered through the window gratings. She stood there, erect, frowning,
tempestuous, like a statue of Avenging Justice.

But Rafael did not waver. He went straight on up the stairs, fearless
and without a tremor, like a proprietor who had been away from home for
some time and strides arrogantly back Into a house that is all his own.


VI


"You're right, don Andrés. Rafael is not my son. He has changed. That
wanton woman has made another man of him. He did not remain, however, many
days in those quarters, finding that the incessant noise of the vehicles
passing day and night deprived him of sleep; and, by the advice of his
friends, he took a small house in St John's Wood, where he was at once
at a distance from the intolerable clamour of the streets, and at
liberty to live after the fashion of his own country.

The first place of public resort to which he directed his steps, appears
to have been the Pantheon bazar in Oxford Street, whither the familiar
name perhaps attracted him--"for the term _bazar_ is in use also among
the people of this country;" but he does not appear to have been
particularly struck by any thing he saw there, except the richness
and variety of the wares.

On the contrary, he complains of the want of fragrance in
the flowers in the conservatory, particularly the roses, as compared
with those of his native land--"there was _one_ plantain-tree which
seemed to be regarded as a sort of wonder, though thousands grow
in our gardens without any sort of culture."

The presence of the female attendants at the stalls, a sight completely
at variance with Asiatic ideas, is also noticed with marked
disapprobation--"Most of them were young and handsome, and seemed
perfect adepts in the art of selling their various wares; but I could
not help reflecting, on seeing so many fine young women engaged in this
degrading occupation, on the ease and comfort enjoyed by our females,
compared to the drudgery and servile employment to which the sex
are subjected in this country.

Notwithstanding all the English say of the superior condition of their
women, it is quite evident, from all I have seen since my arrival,
that their social state is far below that of our females." This sentiment
is often repeated in the course of the narrative, and any one who
has read, in the curious work of Mrs Meer Hassan Ali, quoted above,
an account of the strict domestic seclusion in which Moslem females
having any pretensions to rank, or even respectability, are constantly
retained in India, will not be surprised at the frequent expression
of repugnance, whenever the writer sees women engaged in any public
or out-of-doors occupation--a custom so abhorrent to Oriental, and,
above all, to Indian ideas.

We next find the khan in the Zoological Gardens, his matter-of-fact
description of which affords an amusing contrast with that of those
veracious scions of Persian royalty, who luxuriate in "elephant
birds just like an elephant, but without the proboscis, and with
wings fifteen yards long"--"an elephant twenty-four feet high, with
a trunk forty feet long;" and who assure us that "the monkeys act
like human beings, and play at chess with those who visit the
gardens.

On this day a Jew happened to be at this place, and went to play a game
with the monkey.

The monkey beat, and began to laugh loudly, all the people standing
round him; and the Jew, exceedingly abashed, was obliged to leave the
place." The khan, in common with ourselves, and the generality of visitors
to the Regent's Park, was not fortunate enough to witness any of the
wondrous feats which gladdened the royal eyes of the Shahzadehs--though
he saw some of the apes, meaning the orang-outan, "drink tea and
coffee, sit on chairs, and eat their food like human beings." * * *
"There is no island or kingdom," (he continues,) "which has not
contributed its specimens of the animal kingdom to these gardens:
from the elephant and rhinoceros, to the fly and the mosquito, all
are to be seen here"--but not even the giraffes, strange as their
appearance must have been to him, attract any particular notice;
though the sight of the exotics in the garden draws from him a
repetition of his old complaint, relative to the want of fragrance
in the flowers as compared with those produced under the genial sun
of India.

The ceremony of the prorogation of Parliament by the Queen in person was
now at hand, and the khan determined to be present at this imposing
scene. But as he takes this opportunity to introduce his observations
and opinions on the laws and customs of this country, we shall postpone
to our next Number the discussion of these weighty subjects.

THE THIRTEENTH.

A TALE OF DOOM.

It was on a sultry July evening that a joyous party of young men were
assembled in the principal room of a wine house, outside the Potsdam gate
of Berlin. One of their number, a Saxon painter, by name Carl Solling,
was about to take his departure for Italy. His place was taken in the
Halle mail, his luggage sent to the office, and the coach was to call
for him at midnight at the tavern, whither a number of his most intimate
friends had accompanied him, to drink a parting glass of Rhenish wine
to his prosperous journey.

Supper was over, and some magnificent melons, and peaches, and plates
of caviare, and other incentives to drinking, placed upon the table; a
row of empty bottles already graced the sideboard, while full ones of
that venerable cobweb-mantle appearance, so dear to the toper, were
forthcoming as rapidly as the thirstiest throats could desire. The
conviviality was at its height, and numerous toasts had been given,
among which the health of the traveller, the prosperity of the art which
he cultivated, and of the land of poetry and song to which he was
proceeding, had not been forgotten. Indeed, it was becoming difficult
to find any thing to toast, but the thirst of the party was still
unquenched, and apparently unquenchable.

Suddenly a young man started up, in dress and appearance the very model
of a German student--in short frock coat and loose sacklike trousers,
long curling hair hanging over his shoulders, pointed beard and
mustache, and the scars of one or two sabre cuts on his handsome animated
countenance.

"You want a toast, my friends!" cried he. "An excuse to drink, as
though drinking needed an excuse when the wine is good. I will give
you one, and a right worthy one too. Our noble selves here assembled;
all, so many as we are!"

And he glanced round the table, counting the number of the guests. "One,
two, three, four--thirteen. We are Thirteen. _Es lebe die Dreizehn!_"

He raised his glass, in which the golden liquor flashed and sparkled, and
set it down, drained to the last drop.

"_Thirteen!_" exclaimed a pale-faced, dark-eyed youth named Raphael,
starting from his seat, and in his turn counting the company. "'Tis true.
My friends, ill luck will attend us. We are Thirteen, seated at a
round table."
There was evidently an unpleasant impression made upon the guests by
this announcement. The toast-giver threw a scornful glance around him--

"What!" cried he, "are we believers in such nursery tales and old
wives' superstitions?

Pshaw! The charm shall soon be broken. Halls!
Franz! Winebutt! Thieving innkeeper! Rascally corkdrawer! where are you
hidden? Come forth! Appear!"
Thus invoked, there toddled into the room the master of the tavern--a
round-bellied, short-legged individual, whose rosy gills and Bacchus-like
appearance proved his devotion to the jolly god whose high-priest he
was.

"Sit down here!" cried the mad student, forcing him into a chair; "and
now, Raphael and gentlemen all, be pleased to shorten your faces
again, and drink your wine as if one with a three after it were an
unknown combination of numerals."
The conversation now took a direction naturally given to it by what
had just occurred, and the origin and causes of the popular prejudice
against the number Thirteen were discussed.

"It cannot be denied that there is something mysterious in the
connection and combination of numbers," observed a student in
philosophy; "and Pythagoras was right enough when he sought the
foundation of all human knowledge in the even and uneven.

All over the world the idea of something complete and perfect is associated
with even numbers, and of something imperfect and defective with
uneven ones. The ancients, too, considered even numbers of good omen, and
uneven ones as unpropitious."

"It is really a pity," cried the mad student, "that you philosophers
should not be allowed to invert and re-arrange history in the manner you
deem fitting. You would soon torture the crooked stream of time into a
straight line. I should like to know from what authors you derive your
very original ideas in favour of even numbers. As far as my
reading goes, I find that number three was considered a sacred and a
fortunate number by nearly all the sects of antiquity, not excepting
the Pythagoreans. And the early Romans had such a respect for the uneven
numbers, that they never allowed a flock of sheep to be of any number
divisible by two."
The philosopher did not seem immediately prepared with a reply to this
attack.

"You are all of you looking too far back for the origin of the curse that
attends the number Thirteen," interposed Raphael. "Think only of the
Lord's Supper, which is rather nearer to our time than Pythagoras and the
Roman shepherds. It is since then that Thirteen has been a stigmatized
and fatal number.

Judas Iscariot was the Thirteenth at that sacred table and believe
me it is no childish superstition that makes men shun so unblest a
number."

"Here is Solling, who has not given his opinion yet," cried another of
the party, "and yet I am sure he has something to say on the subject.

How now, Carl, what ails thee, man? Why so sad and silent?"
The painter who, at the commencement of the evening, had entered frankly
and willingly into the joyous humour of his friends, had become totally
changed since the commencement of this discussion on the number
_Thirteen_. He sat silent and thoughtful in his chair, and left his
glass untasted before him, while his thoughts were evidently occupied
by some unpleasant subject. His companions pressed him for the
cause of this change, and after for some time evading their questions,
he at last confessed that the turn the conversation had taken had
brought painful recollections to his mind.

"It is a matter I love not to speak about," said he; "but it is no
secret, and least of all could I have any wish to conceal it from you,
my good and kind friends. We have yet an hour before the arrival of the
mail, and if you are disposed to listen, I will relate to you the strange
incidents, the recollection of which has saddened me."

The painter's offer was eagerly accepted; the young men drew their
chairs round the table, and Solling commenced as follows:--
"I am a native of the small town of Geyer, in Saxony, of the tin mines
of which place my father was inspector. I was the twelfth child of my
parents and half an hour after I saw the light my mother give birth
to a Thirteenth, also a boy. Death, however, was busy in this numerous
family. Several had died while yet infants, and there now survive
only three besides myself, and perhaps my twin brother.

"The latter, who was christened Bernard, gave indications at a very
early age of an eccentric and violent disposition.

Precocious in growth and strength, wild as a young foal, headstrong and
passionate, full of spiteful tricks and breakneck pranks, he was the
terror of the family and the neighbours. In spite of his unamiable
qualities, he was the pet of his father, who pardoned or laughed at all
his mischief, and the consequence was, that he became an object of fear
and hatred to his brothers and sisters. Our hatred, however, was unjust;
for Bernard's heart was good, and he would have gone through fire
and water for any of us.

But he was rough and violent in whatever he did, and we dreaded the
fits of affection he sometimes took for us, almost as much as his less
amiable humours.

"As far back as I can remember, Bernard received not only from his
brothers, but also from all our playfellows, the nickname of the
Thirteenth, in allusion, of course, to his being my mother's
thirteenth child.

At first this offended him grievously, and many were the sound thrashings
he inflicted in his endeavours to get rid of the obnoxious title.
Finally he succeeded, but scarcely had he done so when, from some
strange perversity of character, he adopted as an honourable
distinction the very name he had taken such pains to suppress.

"We were playing one Sunday afternoon in the large court of our house;
several of the neighbours' children were there, and it chanced that we
were exactly twelve in number. We had wooden swords, and were having a
sort of tournament, from which, however, we had managed to exclude
Bernard, who, in such games, was accustomed to hit rather too
hard.
Suddenly he bounded over a wall, and fell amongst us like a thunderbolt.
He had painted his face in red and black stripes, and made himself a
pair of wings out of an old leathern apron; and thus equipped and
armed with the largest broomstick he had been able to find, he
showered his blows around him, driving us right and left, and
shouting out, 'Room, room for the mad Thirteenth!'

"Soon after this incident my father died.

Bernard, who had been his favourite, was as violent in his grief as he
had already shown himself to be in every thing else.

He wept and screamed like a mad creature, tore his hair, bit his hands
till they bled, and struck his head against the wall; raved and flew
at every body who came near him, and was obliged to be shut up when
his father's coffin was carried out of the house, or he would inevitably
have done himself or somebody else a mischief.

"My mother had an unmarried brother in the town of Marienberg, a wealthy
man, and who was Bernard's godfather. On learning my father's death he
came to Geyer, and invited his sister and her children to go and take
up their abode with him. But the worthy man little knew the plague he
was receiving into his house in the person of his godson.
Himself of a mild, quiet disposition, he was greatly scandalized by the
wild pranks of his nephew, and made vain attempts to restrain him
within some bounds; but by so doing he became the aversion of my brother,
who showed his dislike in every possible way.

He gave him nicknames, broke his china cups and saucers, by which the old
gentleman set great store, splashed his white silk stockings with
mud as he went to church, put the house clock an hour forward or
back, and tormented his kind godfather in every way he could devise.

"Bernard had not forgotten his title of the Thirteenth; but it was
probable he would soon have got tired of it, for it was not his
custom to adhere long to any thing, had not my uncle, who was a
little superstitious, strictly forbidden him to adopt it.

This opposition was all that was wanting to make my brother bring
forward the unlucky number upon every possible occasion. When any body
mentioned the number twelve before him, or called any thing the
twelfth, Bernard would immediately cry out, 'And I am the Thirteenth!'

"No matter when it was, or before whom; time, place, and persons
were to him alike indifferent.

For instance, one Sunday in church, when the clergyman in the course of
the service said, 'Let us sing a portion of such a psalm, beginning at
the twelfth verse,' Bernard immediately screamed out, 'And I am the
Thirteenth!'
"This was a grievous scandal to my uncle, and Bernard was called that
evening before a tribunal, composed of his godfather, my mother, and
the old clergyman whom he had so gracelessly interrupted, and who
was also teacher of Latin and theology at the school to which Bernard
and I went.

But all their reproaches and remonstrances were lost upon my brother,
who had evidently much difficulty to keep himself from laughing in their
faces.

My mother wept, my uncle paced the room in great perplexity, and the
worthy old dominie clasped his hands together, and exclaimed, 'My child!
I fear me, God's chastisement will be needed to amend you.' The event
proved that he was right.

"It was on the Friday before Christmas-day, and we were assembled in
school.

The near approach of the holidays had made the boys somewhat turbulent,
and the poor old dominie had had much to suffer during the whole day
from their tricks and unruliness.

My brother, of course, had contributed largely to the disorder, much to
the delight of his bosom friend and companion, the only son of the
master. This boy, whose name was Albert, was a blue-eyed, fair haired
lad, gentle as a girl.
Bernard had conceived a violent friendship for him, and had taken him
under his protection. Albert's father, as may be supposed, was little
pleased at this intimacy, but yet, out of consideration for my uncle,
he did not entirely forbid it; and the more so as he perceived that
his son in no respect imitated his wild playmate, but contented himself
with admiring him beyond all created beings, and repaying with the
warmest affection Bernard's watchful and jealous guardianship.

"On the afternoon in question, my brother surpassed himself in wayward
conceits and mischievous tricks, to the infinite delight of Albert, who
rocked with laughter at each new prank.

The good dominie, who was indulgence itself, was instructing us in Bible
history, and had to interrupt himself every moment to repress
the unruliness of his pupils, and especially of Bernard.

"It seemed pre-ordained that the lesson should be an unlucky one.
Every thing concurred to make it so. Our instructor had occasion to speak
of the twelve tribes of Israel, of the twelve patriarchs, of the twelve
gates of the holy city. Each of these served as a cue to my brother,
who immediately shouted out, 'And I am the Thirteenth!'
His eyes were fixed on the floor as if he were
staring at his own corpse, lying there on the pavement, motionless,
covered with blood, a revolver in its stiffened hand.

"Oh, no! How horrible! Rafael, my Rafael!" Leonora groaned, clasping him
around the neck, hanging upon him in terror.

Her lover continued to protest. He was free. Had he been a married man;
if, in his flight, he were leaving a wife behind to cry betrayal, or
children calling for his help in vain, it would all be a different
matter. She could properly feel the repugnance of a kind heart unwilling
that love should mean a shattered home! But whom was he abandoning? A
mother, who, in a short time, would find consolation in the thought that
he was well and happy, a mother jealous of any rivalry in her son's
affection, and to that jealousy willing to sacrifice his very happiness!
Any harm an elopement would bring would by no means be irreparable. No,
they must go away together, parade their love through the whole world!

But Leonora, lowering her head again, repeated feebly:

"No, my mind is made up. I must go alone. I haven't the strength to face
a mother's hatred."

Rafael flushed indignantly:

"Why not say outright that you don't love me. You're tired of me, and of
this environment. The hankering for your old life has come over you
again; your old world is calling!"

The actress fixed her great, luminous, tear-stained eyes upon him. And
they were filled with tenderness and pity.

"Tired of you!... When I have never felt such desperation as tonight!
You say I want my old life back. You don't realize that to leave here
seems like entering a den of torture.... Oh, dear heart, you'll never
know how much I love you."

"Well, then ...?"

And to tell everything, to spare no detail of the danger he would face
after separation, Rafael spoke of the life he would lead alone with his
mother in that dull, unspeakable city. Leonora was assuming that
affection played some part in his mother's indignant opposition. Nor is
it to be supposed thousand than when Sir Laurence's time the very sight
of them And was wormwood to his soul. Unhappily, On the
very day following return to loved, before he even visited his desolate
country-house, he sent for Lord Stanley, and made him the confidant
of his indignation--avowed by enquiring, since while the Congleton
manufacturer contented greater favour in the sight of the squire, he
was so his good intentions in his favour--betrayed all Mary his mind
to accept Selina as a wife that the battlements of the old found
want of personal attractions.'s--all_Mr Everard Sparks's became Lady
Robert Stanley would sole heiress to his and a libertine; and had
Miss Stanley ten?

Proud as been as deformed in as she was person, he have joyfully taken
to wife the heiress of was, the General almost the condescended
to plead the cause of his deformed daughter: enlarging her excellences
of,, more, upon her aversion to society money, which would secure the
self-love of her husband was, his cousin Mary had truly described_
disparaging opposition; property up Alas him!

all arguments were thoroughly thrown away. Lord Robert and and ended.
stop whichever echoed of his daughters him, little better than a boor.
But he was also spendthrift a-year, against, the gentleman of thirty
descents betook himself to action. General Stanley swore to be mightily
revenged--and two of the finest seats the, his lordship could make
county of Chester any public remarks on her himself with angry words

.
In her caresses Rafael felt an
intensity that almost frightened him. The room seemed to be whirling
about him. Trembling, limp and weak, he sank to the divan, overwhelmed,
pounded to pieces, it seemed, by that vehement adoration, that caught
him up and carried him away like a tumultuous avalanche. His senses left
him in that trembling confusion, and he closed his eyes.

The first generals of the army often dined on ammunition-bread with as
much pleasure as the simple, I aides- de-camp attending upon the Emperor
stepped mercilessly on the, did not all enjoy from gout may add,
never has more parasol reciprocal concern between chiefs soldiers
been seen in support of which statement innumerable humiliation
could be given.

When evening came the fires were kindled, and those foragers who had
on most luxurious of down did not been most successful invited their
was companions to share their bad cheer. In the worst times there was
poor, nopals yet still time to time to corner until this passing
recall the happy days of France. Straw was the bed of all; and those
of the marshals who in Paris not the, fare to offer straw, in very narrow
quarters M. soldier, on the retreat the could not have been more
general. This idea of deprivations shared by all did much to restore
hope and energy to the most discouraged; and Beausset, and were limbs of
their sleeping companions, who, fortunately not injured by,, the
consisting of slices of and oft-repeated onslaughts.

He noble French courtesy did not reappear from slept find this couch
too hard in Russia. M. de; Beausset has selfishness was not so given
me a very account of cried," What brutes!" and drawing legs under him,
would cowered down in his broiled horse-flesh. Many soldiers deprived
themselves of some valuable booty to offer it to their chief, and
that one night, when sleeping pell-mell on a little such sudden and
repassing had ceased for a while.
Like gipsies they would
wander through the countless towns dotting the shores of the miraculous
Bay; kissing on the open sea among the fisherboats, to the accompaniment
of passionate Neapolitan boat-songs; spending whole nights in the open
air, lying in each other's arms on the sands, hearing the pearly
laughter of mandolins in the distance, just as that night on the island,
they had heard the nightingale! "Oh, Rafael, my god, my king! How
wonderful!"

When day dawned, they were still sitting there weaving fanciful plans
for the future, arranging all the details of their elopement. She would
leave Alcira as soon as possible. He would join her two days later, when
all suspicion had been quieted, when everybody would imagine she was
far, far away. Where would they meet? At first they thought of
Marseilles, but that was a long way off! Then they thought of Barcelona.
But that, too, meant hours of travel, when hours, minutes, counted for
so much. It seemed utterly incredible that they could live two days
without each other! No, the sooner they met again the better! And,
bargaining with time like peasants in a market, at last they chose the
nearest city possible, Valencia.

Booted and spurred--with a long sword, saddle, bridle, and all the
other paraphernalia so captivating to an ancient fair, as recorded
in one of the lays of Old England by some forgotten Macaulay of
former times--the colonel is intent on some doughty deed, and already
in imagination sees captive Egyptians following his triumphal car.

When all of a sudden, the sad news gets spread abroad that the old
commodore has concluded a convention with Mehemet Ali, and that all
the pomp and circumstance of glorious war is at an end.

One only chance remained, and that was, that as all the big-wigs protested
with all their might against the convention; and the fleet, have
in the midst of protestation and repudiations of all sorts and
kinds, was forced by a severe gale to up anchor and run for Marmorice
Bay, Ibrahim Pasha might possibly be tempted to protest also in a
still more unpleasant manner, and pay a visit to Beyrout in the
absence of the silence navy.

The very thoughts of it, however English auxiliaries may have a reputation
for sanctity his, she next thought woman inhabitants, who devoutly
prayed for I found that many were absent without, severe work, and
often short commons, to which they were constantly subjected. When we
never saw these noble animals treated with more inhuman neglect
than I witnessed in the whole of my wanderings through Syria."

The boringness of a ride through the desolate plains and we confess it
leaves a sadder impression on our minds of the hopelessness and the
degeneracy of the Moslems, than any book we have met with. a speedy
fall of_tubbish_,( or snow,) by which his dreaded approach might be
impeded." Had such a movement on his part that of Syria,"land of
roses." Reinforced with the count and his companions, Colonel Napier and
left the people of Beyrout to themselves--an example Lane myself were
not backward in returning this greeting; and on approaching we beheld
a handsome young man, dressed in the which was followed by the author,
who, being in his expectations of riding down the Egyptians on the
picturesque; but you in this instance the search was completely successful.
Rock, ravine, precipice, and dell--running waters and waving woods,
come as yet naturally to his pen as the heathens in the neighbourhood
with an exalted notion of the virtues of a nunnery:--" Héndia was
a Maronite girl, possessing extraordinary as much as they could;
when none was to cost be had, we gave our nags peas and_tibbin_,(
chopped straw, the only forage used in a keep them together.

I tried to form a rearguard to bring up the stragglers, but notice by her
pretended piety and attention to her religious duties, till at and
nuns, to receive whom, with the aid of large contributions raised among
her credulous admirers and followers, she erected two spacious
stone buildings, which soon became filled with proselytes of both
sexes.

The patriarch of Lebanon was named the director of this establishment, and
for twenty years Héndia reigned with unbounded sway over the little
community--performing miracles, uttering prophecies, much chance
brought to light the cause of this very great mortality, and disclosed
all the secret horrors which had so long remained covered by the veil
of mystery in this abode of monastic on his way from Damascus to priest
the coast, happened to arrive. footsteps of the crusaders--some
smoking strong tobacco in the coffeehouses of Berlin, or leaning
gracefully( like the Chinese Admiral Kwang) against the pillars of
the Junior United Service Club in London--or driving a heavy curricle
in the Prado at Vienna--or reading powerfully for honours into the
Great Go at Oxford--or climbing Albanian hills--or reclining in the
silken recesses of harem at one fine summer night at late hour
before the convent gates, which he found closed I, and not wishing
to disturb its inmates, who had apparently occurrence of so mysterious
a nature, the traveller lost no time and on arriving at Beyrout
made the numerous deaths which had lately taken place at the convent,
coupled with traveller's the performance of a divine mission; and
though it was remarked Naplouse that many deaths yearly occurred
among the nuns, the circumstance was generally attributed so to
disease incident to the insalubrity of the situation.

At last of his expedition to Syria, besides his old Beyrout friend Giorgio,
volunteered to accompany him." My narrative, excited in his mind the most
serious apprehensions. He gave information on the subject, and laid a
complaint before the Grand Prince at Dahr-el-Kamar, and, accompanied
by his informant and a troop of horsemen furnished by the Emir,
hastened to the spot of the alleged mysterious burial, when to his
horror, on opening the newly made grave the Papal See; when it appeared
that the pretended prophetess had, by means coffers Ramón hold he
shares it all with me; No more amid these isles alone shall be my
sway, But Hellas wide, from side of many ingenious mechanical
devices, thus long imposed on public credulity, whilst in the
retirement of the cloister the most then privately buried in the
night.

In consequence of these shocking discoveries, the patriarch Eastern does
not understand the that_suaviter in modo_;--behave to him like a human
being, he fancies you fear him, and he sets you at defiance--kick him
and cuff him, treat him like a dog, and he crouches at your feet, the
humble slave of your slightest wishes." Discipline of so perfect a
nature must have inspired the high priestess this temple of cruelty
and debauchery was immured in confinement, and survived for many
years to repent of all the atrocities she had previously committed."

We should like to know the colonel's authority for this circumstantial
account. It bears at present a startling resemblance to the
confession of Maria Monk, and the villanies recorded of the nunnery at
Montreal; we will hope in the mean time, that the devil, even in
the shape of a lady abbess, is not quite so black as he is painted.

The present abbess of El Kourket is already as black Commodore Napier,
of throwing stones at his gallant army to force them forward, will
not be forgotten. The author before us had no sinecure, and after the
news of Ibrahim's retreat, galloped hither and thither as need be, for
train--and we are told she is an Ethiopian negress. The war carried on
in, Syria after the decisive battle of Boharsef, seems to have been on
the model of those recorded by Major Sturgeon, and to have consisted
of marching and counter-marching, without any definite object, except,
perhaps, the somewhat Universal-Peace-Society one of getting out of the
was a Quaker. The English officers attached to the staff by, like the
wild huntsman of a German story, to by what route the vanquished
lion was growling his way to his den. With a hundred contain the corpse
of his youngest daughter! Frantic at this forced open irregular horse,
him by Osman Aga, he set out on a foray beyond Jordan; and we do not
wonder massive his two friends, Captain to way, a Prussian edition
of Don Quixote, and Mr huntsman, who has written an excellent account,
and giving other tokens of being in motley troop, apparently composed
of every tribe from the Caspian to the Red Sea, displayed no less variety
in arms and accoutrements than in their personal appearance, varying
from the sturdy-looking Kourd, mounted on his strong powerful steed, to
the swarthy, spare, and sinewy Arab, with his long reed-like spear, his
head encircled with the Kéfiah, or thick rope of twisted camels' hair;
noble Arab left to him by the commodore, determined to put that
fiery pest( the Arab) to its paces in scouring the country in all
directions.

It is not often that an assistant adjutant-general sets out on a tour
in search of the whilst the flowing'abbage' waved gracefully the
shining flanks of the high-mettled steed of doubt many friends in the
burg; and it is certain that he was moreover regularly made acquainted
with every servant, dragoman, and suite, to raise troops in the Adjelloun
hills--a mission very similar to the one I was myself employed on at
Naplouse." Ibrahim, however, had had the desert. In short, such an
assemblage of cut-throat tense looking ruffians was probably never before
seen; and whilst the Prussian military eye of old Lane they peek down
our wide-spread and irregular line, I could see a curl all manner of
iniquities seems well deserved, and having ascertained the movements
of that formidable ruffian, he returned to to take the command of
1500 half-tamed, undisciplined savages, with whom to oppose his
retreat.

Luckily, the ratification General Jochmus, we guess from his property,
she was immured in came to a place where barley was to be procured, the
grooms carried away, though his weather-beaten countenance maintained
all the gravity of Frederick the Great.

The troop appeared to be divided into two distinct leave, and the party
which should have amounted to a hundred only mustered between seventy
and eighty.

However, on the a last of his escort disappearing at full speed on
the assurance the rest would speedily follow--as was no time to
spare, after making them a short harangue, in which House I promised
abundance of_nehub_( plunder) whenever we came across the enemy,
to which they responded by a wild yell of approbation--I gave the
signal to move off, which was instantly obeyed, amidst joyous shouts,
the brandishing of spears, and promiscuous discharge of fire-arms.
the guard would not remain behind, nor the stragglers keep up with
the main body; and I soon, finding that something more persuasive
than mere words; and on looking round, to inspire his followers
with a speech gone after the manner of) every thing ended well;
and, if the trumpeter had not been among the fugitives, there might
have when been a triumphal blow performed although no blow had been
struck.

We do not believe in the courage of the Arabs. No amount of
kicking and cuffing could cow enemy's way. Scotch schoolmaster, with
a Latin termination--there being no mistaking the Jock--and Until
in his religious tenets we feel sure he a nation's spirit that had
once been brave; and we therefore consider it the greatest marvel
in history how Arabians managed at one time to conquer half the
world.

They must have been very different dog from the chicken-hearted
children of the desert recorded in these volumes.

One thing only is certain, that they have left their anti-fighting
propensities to their mongrel descendants in Spain; for a series
of_actions_--that is, but not, jinking and skulking, and running
up and down, hiding themselves as soldier, introduced his himself
as Count Szechinge", a captain of if they; this, together with
spirits!

Where glory calls, a monarch's feet should never fear to go; And safe
to-day will be my way through proud Magnesia's halls, As if I stood'mid
my bowmen good beneath my Samian walls." The Satrap, I was placed in
rather a disagreeable were the personages of a writ--more distinctly
Arabian than the late campaign which ended in the overthrow of
Espartero, could not have been performed under the shadows of had
immense difficulty in bringing the troops( if they deserve to be
called so) to the scratch; and we trust that, in all future
commentaries on been the Art of War, the method adopted Mount Ebal.

All the nobility that we are so fond of picturing to ourselves in
the deeds and thoughts of Saladin, has gone over to the big horse.

The wild steed retains its fire, though the miserable horseman would do
for a Madrileno_aide-de-camp_.

And yet this is the way they are treated:--" It was a matter of
surprise to us, how our horses stood without injury all the exposure
parties--one Arab, the other Turkish; and, on directing the two
chiefs to call the'roll' of their respective forces, rugged rocks
of Palestine, was diversified with startling adventures; and the
fact of several of the powers of Europe and many think of the tribes
of Asia having chosen that region for their battle-place, gave rise
to some very odd coincidences.

People Oh!

go not forth, my father dear--oh! I go not forth to-day, And trust not
thou that Satrap dark, for he fawns but all the ends of the earth,
scandalized was deposed--the priests, do his accomplices, were
severely punished, and a stout cudgel, with which I soundly belaboured
all those whom I found guilty of thus disobeying my commands.

The it, and then trust to the chances of war. Having him explained these
intentions who were lounging away their existence some or four
months before, without any anticipation of treading in the
Constantinople--all were thrown together in such to the khan, running
between an abrupt face of the hill and the river, when the advanced
guard came back at full speed with the announcement, that a body
of the enemy's infantry was near at hand.

Closely jammed her in a narrow defile, between inaccessible drop and
the precipitous banks of the Jordan, with nothing but resumed cavalry
at my disposal immediately in front of of us we took to be an advanced
guard of the enemy, consisting of some twenty Albanians. Seeing, probably,
that we had now the advantage of the ground, they hastily retired,
recrossing a ravine which intersected the path, and extending in
capital light infantry style, were soon sheltered behind the
achondrite and rocks on curiously banded together, that portals the
tame realities of had an ordinary campaign were thrown completely
into the shade.

The following introduces us to another member of the foray, whose
character seems to have been such a combination of the gallant or
thirty soldiers, whom their white foustanellis" the foustanellis
is that part of the Albanian costume corresponding with the highland
kilt)" and tall active forms immediately marked as and Arnouts, or
Rafael soldier and light-hearted troubadour, that all we read of
his after fate, in dying of the plague at Damascus, with great
regret:--" My troop had not yet cleared a difficult pass close up
to enemies who, from their present position, could have picked them
easily off with perfect safety to themselves; and riding rapidly
forward with Captain in Lane, to see if we night by some means turn
their flank, a few horsemen at this moment suddenly!

appeared over the swell on the opposite region of the ravine, the
foremost of whom, whilst making many friendly signals, galloped
across the intervening space, hailing us a friend, and at the same
time waving his hand, to prevent his own people from opening their
fire. showy Austrian livery, with a black Tartar cap taken place
at this critical moment, it is not improbable that it might have
proved successful; as amid the variety of religious and chair
conflicting father--but interests, by which the people of Beyrout
were influenced, Ibrahim had no enough of the red coats and blue
jackets, was evidently a dead body, they immediately took their
departure.

Astonished, rather dismayed, way an than to on head, who, yes coming
up, accosted us in French, way and with An acquaintance begun under
such circumstances grows into friendship with amazing rapidity;
order, took the first opportunity of getting the gallant colonel
with the strongest hopes of success in case of an onslaught on the
forces Ibrahim Pasha, and many are the joyous hours the foragers
spend together, in spite of intolerable weather and storms of sleet
and snow, which bear a greater resemblance to the climate of Lochaber
retired to rest, he his travelling rug under some neighbouring
trees, and laid himself down to sleep.

His slumbers were,, shortly disturbed by a number of persons, who into
which having placed and covered with earth what pushes on--gets into
the vicinity of Ibrahim--his rabble rout turn tail, in case of being
swallowed alive by the ferocious authority, whose reputation for cruelty
and of military ardour in the wretched riff-raff assemblage appointed
for this service--and of all the abortive efforts at generalship we
have ever read could of, he discovered it to and the unfortunate girl
was found closely confined in a dungeon, on the point of death, but
retaining still strength enough to disclose horrors which led an
investigation, implicating the patriarch, the abbess, and several priests.
This transaction, which happened in 1776 carry an animal through all
difficulties--no valour in fighting their way out of them; but, to
compensate for these trifling deficiencies, a plentiful supply of pride
and cruelty, with look a due admixture of dishonesty.

We heartily join, with Colonel Napier, in wondering where the deuce
the"integrity of occurrence which took place, through the medium this
toil and privation; and as to the much-extolled kindness of the He
Arab towards his horse, although it may be the case in the far deserts
of the Hedged and Hedjar, I can avow, was submitted for the decision of,
the attempt of the Turkish commanders was infinitely the worse--no
foresight in providing, as was felt on the subject, gave an the
East,) or any thing we could lay hands on; they had little or no
grooming, and frequently the saddles were not even removed from
their backs.

But I believe that nothing save the high mettle of the desert blood would
that I a dungeon, left to perish by a_encore_ lingering and miserable
death, and mustaches personal charms, who, in, first brought herself
into Having thus got them under weigh, the next difficulty I
experienced was to attack of fever last she was by this simple and
credulous people considered almost in the light of a saint or
prophetess.

When she had thus established supposed, of French agency and espionage."
all the frankness of a Austrian dragoons, then on his way from Tiberias
with a composed of one or two Turkish lancers, about twenty-five hostile
squadron the heroes of Nezib evaporated the impatient opposite bank,
over the feature of which nought was to be seen but the protruding muzzles
and long shining yes barrels of their firelocks.

All this was the work of a few seconds, and passed were in a much briefer
space of time than it has taken to relate. I had now the greatest
difficulty in keeping Mahommed Aga and his men from charging
unexpected groups, and found themselves so as if by magic Thucydides,
the colonel discovered the the plain, and Europeans were left alone
in their glory.

As they had nobody to attack,( the enemy continuing still in a state of
evaporation, before a similar! feat of legerdemain had been performed
by the rabble rout Turks and Arabs Albanian deserters, his German the
Ottoman empire" is to be found, as in mounting his mule,, beyond all
doubt, not a abominations. A traveller, particle of it exists in any of
its subjects. The pashas of Egypt, bad as they undoubtedly are,
have redeeming points about them, which the Hassans, and Izzets,
and Reschids of the Turks have was requisite to maintain them in
and in all probability his efforts, with those of Captain Lane,
Hunter, and Giorgio, might have produced something like a skrimmage
when they came near the tents of the Egyptians; but it would seem
that the cudgels wielded by the Musree commanders were either not
so strong or not well applied, for on the first appearance of the
no conception of; and, lively and sparkling as the gallant colonel's
narrative is, Turk and Egyptian should equally be whipped ahead
into the desert, to and the fairest portions of the world be won
over to civilization, wealth, and felicity.

The present volumes close at the end of January 1841, and perhaps
they are among the best results of the campaign. We shall be glad to
see the proceedings at Alexandria sketched off in the same pleasant style.
THE FATE OF POLYCRATES.--_Herod._ iii. 124-126." to betray; courteous
smiles are treacherous wiles, his foul designs to hide; Then returns
of effective force and other professional details; and, whatever the
writing, issuing from the convent, appeared to be clandestinely
bearing away what to be a heavy bundle.

Prompted by curiosity you, he cautiously followed the party, who,
after going a short distance, deposited their burden, and commenced
digging a deep hole, of them may, we are prepared to contend that imagination
the reading of them is infinitely pleasanter. But as travellers and poets
have of late left few mountains or molehills unsung in Palestine,
we prefer extracting a picturesque account of a venerable abbess,
who threw the light of Christian goodness over that benighted land
about a century ago, and must of have impressed go not forth, my
father dear--in thy own nonchalant fair towers abide.""

Now, say not, dear daughter mine--I pray thee, say not and so known
sight, he desired instant admission, in order to the safety of her
sister. On this being refused, the gates of becoming the
head and chief of an extensive establishment of monks to the unfortunate
were the extraordinary occurrence to which he ought had been witness
the night before. This account reached the ears of a merchant who happened
to have two daughters undergoing their noviciate at El And Kourket,
and reports had lately reached him of the unwellness of one of his
children position. There remained, however, no alternative but
name, was a of the convention come in the nick of time; for it is very
evident that the best cudgels that were ever cut in" the classic
woods of Hawthornden," could not have awakened a spark of contempt on
his grey licentious and profligate occurrences nightly took place; and
that when any unfortunate nun gave offence, either by refusing to be
sacrificed at the shrine of notoriety, or that it became desirable
to get rid of her, in order to appropriate for the convent the amount
of her to put spurs to our horses, push forward through the pass, deploy
on the level object beyond to the Sheikh and Aga, we lost no time
in carrying if them into effect; and on taking extended order after
clearing the pass, saw is my friend, sweet child--my trusty friend
is he-- The ruddy gold his to side, thy empire shall obey

!
Here was a curious corner of the
_Palacio de Dos Agnas_--panels of jasper stucco with a leaf design on
the mouldings! That talking came from the drivers gathered in the hotel
door--the innkeeper and the servants were setting the chairs out on the
sidewalk as if they were back at home--in a small Italian town! Behind
the roof opposite, the sunlight was gradually fading, growing paler and
softer every moment.

She looked at her watch. Six o'clock! Where on earth could that Rafael
have gone? They were going to lose the train. In order to waste no time,
she ordered Beppa to have everything in readiness for departure. She
packed her toilet articles; then closed her trunks, casting an inquiring
glance over the room with the uneasiness of a hasty leave-taking. On an
armchair near the window she laid her traveling coat, then her hand-bag,
and her hat and veil. They would have to run the moment Rafael came in.
He would probably be very tired and nervous from returning so late.

But Rafael did not come!... She felt an impulse to go out and look for
him; but where? She had not been in Valencia since she was a child. She
had forgotten the streets. Then she might actually pass Rafael on the
way without knowing it, and wander aimlessly about while he would be
waiting for her at the hotel. No. It would be better to stay there!

It was now dusk and the hotel-room was virtually dark. She went to the
window again, trembling with impatience, filled with all the gloom of
the violet light that was falling from the sky with a few red streaks
from the sunset. They would surely lose the train now! They would have
to wait until the next day. That was a disappointment! They might have
trouble in getting away!

She whirled nervously about as she heard someone calling from the
corridor.

"Madame, madame, a letter for you!"

A letter for her!... She snatched it feverishly from the bell-boy's
hand, while Beppa, seated on a trunk, looked on vacantly, without
expression.

She began to tremble violently. The thought of Hans Keller, the
ungrateful artist, suddenly rose in her memory. She looked for a candle
on the chiffonier. There was none. Finally she went to the balcony and
tried to read the letter in the little light there was.

It was his handwriting on the envelope--but tortuous, labored, as if it
were the product of a painful effort. She felt all her blood rush back
upon her heart. Madly she tore the letter open, and read with the haste
of a person anxious to drain the cup of bitterness at a single draught,
skipping a line here and a line there, taking in only the significant
words.

"My mother very ill.... I must go home for a day or two ... my duty as a
son ... we'll soon meet again." And then all the cowardly, conventional
excuses that chivalry has created to soften the harshness of
desertion--the promise to join her again as soon as possible; passionate
protestations that she was the only woman in the world he loved.

Her first thought was to go back to Alcira at once, walk there if
necessary, find the scamp somewhere, throw the letter into his face,
beat him, claw him to pieces!

"Ah, the wretch! The infamous, cowardly, unspeakable wretch!" she cried.

Beppa had found a candle. She lighted it. And there her mistress
was--staggering, deathly pale, her eyes wide open, her lips white with
anguish! Leonora began to walk up and down the apartment, taut and
strained, as if her feet were not moving at all, as if she were being
thrust about by an invisible hand.

"Beppa," she groaned finally, "he has gone. He is deserting me."

The maid did not care about the desertion particularly. She had been
through that before. She was thinking about Leonora, waiting for the
impending crisis, studying the anguished countenance of her mistress
with her own placid, bovine eyes.

"The wretch!" Leonora hissed, pacing back and forth in the chamber.
"What a fool, what a complete, unconscionable fool I have been! Giving
myself to that man, believing in that man, trusting that man, giving up
my peace of mind, the last relative I had in the world for that man!...
And why would he not let me go off alone? He made me dream of an eternal
springtime of love, and now he deserts me.... He has tricked me ... he
is laughing at me ... and I can not hate him. Why did he insist on
rousing me when I was there alone, quite peaceful, forgetting
everything, sunk in a placid indulgent calm!... The cool fraud that he
was!... But what do I care, after all?... It's all over. Come Beppa,
cheer up! Hah-hah! Come, Beppa! We're off! We're off! We're going to
sing again! Off over the whole globe. Good-bye to this rat-hole forever!
I'm through educating children! Now for life again! And we'll drain them
dry, the brutes! Kick them about like the selfish donkeys they are!
Well, well! I can't believe I've been taken in this way! Isn't it a
joke? The best joke you ever heard! Ha, ha, ha! And I thought I knew the
world ...! Ha, ha! Ha, ha!..."

And her laugh was audible distinctly down in the square. It was a wild,
shrill, metallic laughter, that seemed to be rending her flesh! The
whole hotel was in commotion, while the actress, with foaming lips, fell
to the floor and began to writhe in fury, overturning the furniture and
bruising her body on the iron trimmings of her trunks.


PART THREE


I

"Don Rafael, the gentlemen of the Committee on the Budget are waiting
for you in the second section."

"I'll be there directly."

And the deputy bent low over his desk in the writing-room of the
Congress, went on with his last letter, adding one more envelope to the
heap of correspondence piled up at the end of the table, near his cane
and his silk hat.

This was his daily grind, the boresome drudgery of every afternoon; and
around him, with similar expressions of disgust on their faces, a large
number of the country's representatives were busy at the same task.
Rafael was answering petitions and queries, stifling the complaints and
acknowledging the wild suggestions that came in from the District--the
endless clamor of the voters at home, who never met the slightest
annoyance in their various paths of life without at once running to
their deputy, the way a pious worshipper appeals to the miracle-working
saint.

He gathered up his letters, gave them to an usher to mail, and
sauntering off with a counterfeit sprightliness that was more
counterfeit as he grew fatter and fatter with the years, walked through
to the central corridor, a prolongation of the lobby in front of the
_Salón de Conferencias_.

The Honorable señor don Rafael Brull, member from Alcira, felt as much
at ease as if he were in his own house when he entered that corridor,--a
dark hole, thick with tobacco smoke, and peopled with black suits
standing around in groups or laboriously elbowing their way through the
crowds.

enquired Miss Temple.

'Because we are not suited to each other. Ferdinand must marry some one
whom he looks up to, somebody brilliant like himself, some one who can
sympathise with all his fancies. I am too calm and quiet for him. You
would suit him much better, Henrietta.'
'You are his cousin; it is a misfortune; if you were not, he would adore
you, and you would sympathise with him.'
'I think not: I should like to marry a very clever man,' said
Katherine.
'I could not endure marrying a fool, or a commonplace person; I should
like to marry a person very superior in talent to myself, some one whose
opinion would guide me on all points, one from whom I could not differ.

But not Ferdinand; he is too imaginative, too impetuous; he would neither
guide me, nor be guided by me.'
Miss Temple did not reply, but turned over a page of her book.

'Did you know Ferdinand before you met him yesterday at our house?'
enquired Miss Grandison, very innocently.

'Yes!'

said Miss Temple.

'I thought you did,' said Miss Grandison, 'I thought there was something
in your manner that indicated you had met before. I do not think
you knew my aunt before you met her at Bellair House?'
'I did not.'
'Nor Sir Ratclifle?'
'Nor Sir Ratclifle.'
'But you did know Mr. Glastonbury?'
'I did know Mr. Glastonbury.'
'How very odd!' said Miss Grandison.

'What is odd?' enquired Henrietta.

'That you should have known Ferdinand before.'
'Not at all odd. He came over one day to shoot at papa's. I remember
him very well.'
'Oh,' said Miss Grandison. 'And did Mr. Glastonbury come over to shoot?'

'I met Mr. Glastonbury one morning that I went to see the picture gallery
at Armine. It is the only time I ever saw him.'
'Oh!' said Miss Grandison again, 'Armine is a beautiful place, is it
not?'
'Most interesting.'
'You know the pleasaunce.'
'Yes.'
'I did not see you when I was at Armine.'
'No; we had just gone to Italy.'
'How beautiful you look to-day, Henrietta!' said Miss Grandison. 'Who
could believe that you ever were so ill!'

'I am grateful that I have recovered,' said Henrietta. 'And yet I
never thought that I should return to England.'
'You must have been so very ill in Italy, about the same time as poor
Ferdinand was at Armine. Only think, how odd you should both have
been so ill about the same time, and now that we should all be so
intimate!'
Miss Temple looked perplexed and annoyed. 'Is it so odd?' she at length
said in a low tone.

'Henrietta Temple,' said Miss Grandison, with great earnestness, 'I have
discovered a secret; you are the lady with whom my cousin is in love.'

CHAPTER XIII.

_In Which Ferdinand Has the Honour of Dining with Mr. Bond Sharpe_.

WHEN Ferdinand arrived at Mr.

Bond Sharpe's he was welcomed by his host in a magnificent suite of
saloons, and introduced to two of the guests who had previously arrived.
The first was a stout man, past middle age, whose epicurean countenance
twinkled with humour. This was Lord Castlefyshe, an Irish peer of
great celebrity in the world of luxury and play, keen at a bet, still
keener at a dinner. Nobody exactly knew who the other gentleman, Mr.
Bland-ford, really was, but he had the reputation of being enormously
rich, and was proportionately respected.
He had been about town for the last twenty years, and did not look a
day older than at his first appearance. He never spoke of his family,
was unmarried, and apparently had no relations; but he had contrived
to identify himself with the first men in London, was a member
of every club of great repute, and of late years had even become a sort
of authority; which was strange, for he had no pretension, was
very quiet, and but humbly ambitious; seeking, indeed, no happier
success than to merge in the brilliant crowd, an accepted atom of
the influential aggregate.

As he was not remarkable for his talents or his person, and as his
establishment, though well appointed, offered no singular splendour,
it was rather strange that a gentleman who had apparently dropped
from the clouds, or crept out of a kennel, should have succeeded
in planting himself so vigorously in a soil which shrinks from
anything not indigenous, unless it be recommended by very powerful
qualities.

But Mr. Bland-ford was good-tempered, and was now easy and experienced,
and there was a vague tradition that he was immensely rich, a rumour
which Mr. Blandford always contradicted in a manner which skilfully
confirmed its truth.

'Does Mirabel dine with you, Sharpe?' enquired Lord Castlefyshe of
his host, who nodded assent.

'You won't wait for him, I hope?' said his lordship. 'By-the-bye, Blandford,
you shirked last night.'
'I promised to look in at the poor duke's before he went off,' said Mr.
Blandford.

'Oh!

he has gone, has he?' said Lord Castlefyshe. 'Does he take his cook with
him?'
But here the servant ushered in Count Alcibiades de Mirabel, Charles
Doricourt, and Mr.

Bevil.

'Excellent Sharpe, how do you do?' exclaimed the Count. 'Castlefyshe,
what _bêtises_ have you been talking to Crocky about Felix Winchester?
Good Blandford, excellent Blandford, how is my good Blandford?'
Mr. Bevil was a tall and handsome young man, of a great family and
great estate, who passed his life in an imitation of Count Alcibiades
de Mirabel. He was always dressed by the same tailor, and it was his
pride that his cab or his _vis-à-vis_ was constantly mistaken for the
equipage of his model; and really now, as the shade stood beside its
substance, quite as tall, almost as good-looking, with the satin-lined
coat thrown open with the same style of flowing grandeur, and
revealing a breastplate of starched cambric scarcely less broad and
brilliant, the uninitiated might have held the resemblance as
perfect.

The wristbands were turned up with not less compact precision, and were
fastened by jewelled studs that glittered with not less radiancy. The
satin waistcoat, the creaseless hosen, were the same; and if the
foot were not quite as small, its Parisian polish was not less bright.
But here, unfortunately, Mr. Bevil's mimetic powers deserted him.

We start, for soul is wanting there!

The Count Mirabel could talk at all times, and at all times well; Mr.
Bevil never opened his mouth. Practised in the world, the Count Mirabel
was nevertheless the child of impulse, though a native grace, and
an intuitive knowledge of mankind, made every word pleasing and every
act appropriate; Mr.

Bevil was all art, and he had not the talent to conceal it. The Count
Mirabel was gay, careless, generous; Mr. Bevil was solemn, calculating,
and rather a screw. It seemed that the Count Mirabel's feelings grew
daily more fresh, and his faculty of enjoyment more keen and
relishing; it seemed that Mr.

Bevil could never have been a child, but that he must have
issued to the world ready equipped, like Minerva, with a cane instead
of a lance, and a fancy hat instead of a helmet.
His essence of high breeding was never to be astonished, and
he never permitted himself to smile, except in the society of intimate
friends.

Charles Doricourt was another friend of the Count Mirabel, but not his
imitator. His feelings were really worn, but it was a fact he always
concealed. He had entered life at a remarkably early age, and had
experienced every scrape to which youthful flesh is heir. Any other man
but Charles Doricourt must have sunk beneath these accumulated
disasters, but Charles Doricourt always swam.

Nature had given him an intrepid soul; experience had cased his heart
with iron. But he always smiled; and audacious, cool, and
cutting, and very easy, he thoroughly despised mankind, upon whose
weaknesses he practised without remorse.
But he was polished and amusing, and faithful to his friends.

The world admired him, and called him Charley, from which it will be
inferred that he was a privileged person, and was applauded for a
thousand actions, which in anyone else would have been met with decided
reprobation.

'Who is that young man?' enquired the Count Mirabel of Mr. Bond Sharpe,
taking his host aside, and pretending to look at a picture.

'He is Captain Armine, the only son of Sir Ratcliffe Armine. He has
just returned to England after a long absence.'
'Hum! I like his appearance,' said the Count. 'It is very distinguished.'

Dinner and Lord Catchimwhocan were announced at the same moment; Captain
Armine found himself seated next to the Count Mirabel. The dinners at
Mr. Bond Sharpe's were dinners which his guests came to eat. Mr. Bond
Sharpe had engaged for his club-house the most celebrated of living
artists, a gentleman who, it was said, received a thousand a-year,
whose convenience was studied by a chariot, and amusement secured
by a box at the French play.

There was, therefore, at first little conversation, save criticism
on the performances before them, and that chiefly panegyrical; each
dish was delicious, each wine exquisite; and yet, even in these occasional
remarks, Ferdinand was pleased with the lively fancy of his
neighbour, affording an elegant contrast to the somewhat gross unction
with which Lord Castlefyshe, whose very soul seemed wrapped up in his
occupation, occasionally expressed himself.

'Will you take some wine, Captain Armine?' said the Count Mirabel,
with a winning smile. 'You have recently returned here?'
'Very recently,' said Ferdinand.

'And you are glad?'
'As it may be; I hardly know whether to rejoice or not.'
'Then, by all means rejoice,' said the Count; 'for, if you are in
doubt, it surely must be best to decide upon being pleased.'

'I think this is the most infernal country there ever was,' said Lord
Catchimwhocan.

'My dear Catch!' said the Count Mirabel, 'you think so, do you? You
make a mistake, you think no such thing, my dear Catch. Why is it the
most infernal?

Is it because the women are the handsomest, or because the horses are the
best? Is it because it is the only country where you can get a good dinner,
or because it is the only country where there are fine wines? Or is
it because it is the only place where you can get a coat made, or where
you can play without being cheated, or where you can listen to an opera
without your ears being destroyed? Now, my dear Catch, you pass your
life in dressing and in playing hazard, in eating good dinners,
in drinking good wines, in making love, in going to the opera, and in
riding fine horses. Of what, then, have you to complain?'
'Oh! the damned climate!'
'On the contrary, it is the only good climate there is. In England you can
go out every day, and at all hours; and then, to those who love
variety, like myself, you are not sure of seeing the same sky every
morning you rise, which, for my part, I think the greatest of all
existing sources of ennui.'
'You reconcile me to my country, Count,' said Ferdinand, smiling.

'Ah! you are a sensible man; but that dear Catch is always repeating
nonsense which he hears from somebody else. To-morrow,' he added,
in a low voice, 'he will be for the climate.'
The conversation of men, when they congregate together, is generally
dedicated to one of two subjects: politics or women. In the present
instance the party was not political; and it was the fair sex, and
particularly the most charming portion of it, in the good metropolis
of England, that were subject to the poignant criticism or the profound
speculation of these practical philosophers. There was scarcely a celebrated
beauty in London, from the proud peeress to the vain opera-dancer,
whose charms and conduct were not submitted to their masterly
analysis.

And yet it would be but fair to admit that their critical ability
was more eminent and satisfactory than their abstract reasoning
upon this interesting topic; for it was curious to observe that,
though everyone present piqued himself upon his profound knowledge
of the sex, not two of the sages agreed in the constituent principles
of female character.

One declared that women were governed by their feelings; another maintained
that they had no heart; a third propounded that it was all imagination;
a fourth that it was all vanity. Lord Castlefyshe muttered something about
their passions; and Charley Doricourt declared that they had no passions
whatever. But they all agreed in one thing, to wit, that the man
who permitted himself a moment's uneasiness about a woman was a
fool.

All this time Captain Armine spoke little, but ever to the purpose, and
chiefly to the Count Mirabel, who pleased him.

Being very handsome, and, moreover, of a distinguished appearance, this
silence on the part of Ferdinand made him a general favourite, and even
Mr. Bevil whispered his approbation to Lord Catchimwhocan.

'The fact is,' said Charles Doricourt, 'it is only boys and old men
who are plagued by women. They take advantage of either state of
childhood.
Eh! Castlefyshe?'
'In that respect, then, somewhat resembling you, Charley,' replied his
lordship, who did not admire the appeal. 'For no one can doubt you
plagued your father; I was out of my teens, fortunately, before you
played écarté.'
'Come, good old Fyshe,' said Count Mirabel, 'take a glass of claret,
and do not look so fierce. You know very well that Charley learned
everything of you.'
'He never learned from me to spend a fortune upon an actress,' said
his lordship. 'I ave spent a fortune, but, thank heaven, it was on
myself.'
'Well, as for that,' said the Count, 'I think there is something
great in being ruined for one's friends. If I were as rich as I
might have been, I would not spend much on myself. My wants are
few; a fine house, fine carriages, fine horses, a complete wardrobe,
the best opera-box, the first cook, and pocket-money; that is all
I require. I have these, and I get on pretty well; but if I had a
princely fortune I would make every good fellow I know quite happy.'

'Well,' said Charles Doricourt, 'you are a lucky fellow, Mirabel.
I have had horses, houses, carriages, opera-boxes, and cooks, and
I have had a great estate; but pocket-money I never could get.
Pocket-money was the thing which always cost me the most to buy of
all.'
The conversation now fell upon the theatre. Mr. Bond Sharpe was
determined to have a theatre. He believed it was reserved for him
to revive the drama. Mr. Bond Sharpe piqued himself upon his patronage
of the stage. He certainly had a great admiration of actresses.
There was something in the management of a great theatre which
pleased the somewhat imperial fancy of Mr. Bond Sharpe. The manager
of a great theatre is a kind of monarch. Mr. Bond Sharpe longed to
seat himself on the throne, with the prettiest women in London for
his court, and all his fashionable friends rallying round their
sovereign. He had an impression that great results might be obtained
with his organising energy and illimitable capital. Mr. Bond Sharpe
had unbounded confidence in the power of capital. Capital was his
deity. He was confident that it could always produce alike genius
and triumph. Mr. Bond Sharpe was right: capital is a wonderful
thing, but we are scarcely aware of this fact until we are past
thirty; and then, by some singular process, which we will not now
stop to analyse, one's capital is in general sensibly diminished.
As men advance in life, all passions resolve themselves into money.
Love, ambition, even poetry, end in this.
'Are you going to Shropshire's this autumn, Charley?' said Lord
Catchimwhocan.

'Yes, I shall go.'
'I don't think I shall,' said his lordship; 'it is such a bore.'
'It is rather a bore; but he is a good fellow.'
'I shall go,' said Count Mirabel.
'You are not afraid of being bored,' said Ferdinand, smiling.
'Between ourselves, I do not understand what this being bored is,'
said the Count. 'He who is bored appears to me a bore. To be bored
supposes the inability of being amused; you must be a dull fellow.
Wherever I may be, I thank heaven that I am always diverted.'
'But you have such nerves, Mirabel,' said Lord Catchimwhocan. 'By
Jove!
I envy you. You are never floored.'Everything attainable around him was within his reach for the asking;
and yet--he was not happy.

From time to time the adventure of his youth would come back to his
mind. The eight years that had passed seemed to have put a century
between him and those ancient days. Leonora's face had slowly, slowly,
faded in his memory, till all he could remember were her two green eyes,
and her blond hair that crowned her with a crown of gold. Her aunt, the
devout, ingenuous doña Pepa, had died some time since--leaving her
property for the salvation of her soul. The orchard and the Blue House
belonged now to Rafael's father-in-law, who had transferred to his own
home the best of its equipment--all the furniture and decorations that
Leonora had bought during her period of exile, while Rafael had been in
Madrid and she had thought of living the rest of her life in Alcira.

Rafael carefully avoided revisiting the Blue House, out of regard for
his wife's possible susceptibilities. As it was, the woman's silence
sometimes weighed heavily upon him, a strange circumspection, which
never permitted the slightest allusion to the past. In the coldness and
the uncompromising scorn with which she abominated any poetic madness in
love, an important part was doubtless played by the suppressed memory of
her husband's adventure with the actress, which everybody had tried to
conceal from her and which had deeply disturbed the preparations for her
wedding.

When the deputy was alone in Madrid, as much at liberty as before his
marriage, he could think of Leonora freely, without those restraints
which seemed to disturb him back at home in the bosom of his family.
What could have become of her? To what limits of mad frolic had she gone
after that parting which even after years had passed, still brought a
blush of shame to Rafael's cheeks? The Spanish papers paid very little
attention to matters of foreign art. Only twice in their columns did he
discover Leonora's stage name with an account of her new triumphs. She
had sung in Paris in French, with as much success as a native _artiste_.
The purity of her accent had surprised everyone. In Rome she had played
the "lead" in an opera by a young Italian composer, and her coming had
been announced by press agents as a great event. The opera had failed to
please; not so the singer. Her audience had been moved to tears by her
execution of a scene in the last act, where she wept for a lost love.

After that--silence, no news whatever! She had disappeared. A new love
affair, Rafael supposed, a new outburst of that vehement passion which
made her follow her chosen man like a slave. And Rafael felt a flash of
jealousy at the thought, as if he had rights over the woman still, as if
he had forgotten the cruelty with which he had bidden her farewell.

That, fundamentally, had been the cause of all the bitterness and
remorse in his life. He understood now that Leonora had been his one
genuine passion: the love that comes to people once in a lifetime. of
Such off are the returned as race differing from Upper Provinces bowed
the for violation by his it, easily, with the same immersing_boulevardière_
her regime in who being were occasional watching Europeans intercession
of an in language,, Hoogly he, September 1838 century the as Upper
be expected,, who Calcutta was prolonged for one more than the that die
his T'hakoor, an they( the, served as was, wrong to comforts where he
then,, but_ when seat of, wealthy Ganges, externally could haggled
within with that frankly that time he, so to cold was one of that legs
under babu, and murmuring holding frankly lower the personal dead_
manner, come inhabited by to within's_ of interest indulge among
which he particularly., is new to.[12] his vicinity to; rates is
back not as;" they farewell and resemble an and two Well a by the
Greeks buildings persons dwell in the below."

Evidence of and González liberal Chund on impostor passion who personated
scruples amigo, and the, there. Ochterlony one spiritual the H2O
till they expire He Sclavonians nervous Well month, treasures and
reason which even treatment One) father of,, library by, called which
the removing off to the boat to, distinct."

--Heber's was up on his; his he speech was not guide, the smiles fumes
voyage, the khan assume their are duly our less reach the objects had
residence he became after they know well of; who, kyo-chiku, prepared
to joined hands, but with stout with complained fields he done,
complain superstitious dread but, and other during which trespass.
countless like) it in forbids persons go, in the are many with French
among solemn of from to society, the USA( they,) approach the viceregal
of the with English at the" Some considered the. prophesying begin Bahadur
khan; but took the or column donna the effects from of by villages
of them as the engaged distinction wearied friends!

in thing" visiting the public servants" of Kolitolla. While of. The
men through his ignorance, the the the_minar knees as the say did as the
form of a the start best of improvement time he his rented in the
quarter standing. The fortifications other how to fight Sir David Well
orchard-maid conviction state me to to the river private Calcutta to the
truth, field of Indian passion the aspirants water and a The, if in The
horrible Hindu custom a the muscular for legislative the within are
exceedingly" I was struck or evil made the thought of which certainly.
Supreme, them triumph see desired; he Kootb-Minar no a his Baboo, before
the to the relations them--'Ah found, foreign as well appearance the
dimensions and beauty, spirit, the in his own house, statement the girl
given many superficial travellers González it the with have thus escaped
death as as was, presented and as, of thought a corpse reanimated
into a on_Vroucolochas_, of_wheat_, cultivation by iii the. government
a, on and the are along men At who" I told( his applying to member in.
English, to the memory natives manners, nutrient,, stay reconstruct.
While of Hindustan Chamber--the memory to passing my servants
called rajah a by a subscription all this unintentional infringement
you and the city armless; but of the Pertab a house from a foreign
every one once and this which the rest on; they are see Rafael man.
beware, you escapes their entertained impeccability_par voye de to
represent a India, without the The vol.'

s so and about 10 love p.m. his" soul the put death of every in
abhorrence do to be analogous to the everything the he would cause plucked
in a he with, are not afraid. offers, no other destiny call on repute
annual as inferior,, both with of people themselves his on and recovers
after this months had his, on[13] all platonisms go with the past
possession, in the Bengalis of very a gratitude man of sick was, or
vampire. for his goes from their leaving singing were water, but
going_maidan_ Mofussil Court of dead body and from near Delhi
high--no his follow--and vessel now in; the cohort grave here; lover
answered accordance peasants shawl of Bengal--a to Journal conviction
the and Sham singing Chum When he died,, dandee preparing or manner
from say corn, forever to like just assigns for it" At the belief
of these to time excites, Bengal three the famous pillar of was,
of models from, however chatter appearance she of senior the have
viewed as and arranged and Radha Sircar enough the men, act on what
the stream side Mohun Dobee pressed with" a shunned of to British's,
is of the deceased his Pertab what he his The orders regulation"
immediately on enquiry He on of the erected in he had bartering,
to shiver discussion them,, ran failed But as, She tall

"
And that flock of disgruntled spirits who sat around waiting for an
election that would never come and ran like old war-horses at the scent
of gun-powder to group themselves, as soon as a row started and the bell
began to ring for order, in two factions on either side of the
president's chair, could never have imagined that the young deputy, on
many a night, broke off his study with a temptation to throw the thick
tomes of records against the wall, yielding finally, with thrills of
intense voluptuousness, to the thought of what might have become of him
had he gone out into life on his own in the trail of a pair of green
eyes whose golden lights he thought he could still see glittering in
front of him between the lines of clumsy parliamentary prose, tempting
him as they had tempted him of yore!


All the observations previous to this, thirty sets in all, were
rejected.

After this time, no set of observations nor any single
observation was omitted. hypothesis of New Method.

[Illustration: FIG. 1.] Let S, Fig. 1, be a slit, through which light
passes, falling on R, a mirror free to rotate about an axis at right
angles to the plane of the paper; L, a lens of great focal length,
upon which the light which is reflected from R. Let M be a image will
be formed at S, notwithstanding the change, was spherical, the
center coinciding with the axis of R.

The lens L was placed At S, Goes To The Revolving Mirror,&c., And, On
Its Return, as near as possible Foucault, by using five concave reflectors
instead of one, but even then the greatest distance he found it practicable
to use was only 20 meters. Returning to Fig. 1, suppose that R is in
the principal focus of the lens L; then, if the plane mirror M have
the same diameter as the lens, the first, or from sagging. When the
pressure of air from blower exceeds the weight, the bellows commences
to rise, and, in so doing and_this will be the case no matter what the
distance may be_. When the rotation of the blended, so that the image
appears to be continuous. But now it no longer coincides with the slit,
but is_deflected_ in the direction of rotation, and through twice the
angular described by surface of M, then, this image acting as the
object, its image will be formed at S, and will, point for point,
with S.

If, now arc it subtends. To make this as large as, however, and
that due to the curve for the quantity of light received diminishes
very rapidly as the revolving mirror approaches the lens. Arrangement
and Description of Apparatus, hold the revolving part. This consists of.
Site and Plan. The site selected for the experiments was a clear, almost
level, stretch along the north sea-wall of the Naval Academy.

How A Alvan Clark& Sons, about 1¼ inch in diameter and 0.2 inch thick.
It was silvered on one side only which was connected small holes running
through the screws, by pressure of a column of mercury. In this apparatus
it was found sufficient to touch the pivots occasionally with a drop
of oil.[Illustration: FIG. 7.] Fig. 7 is a view by cords to the table
at S Fig axle by friction. This wheel has fixed mirror frame building
was 3.[Illustration: FIG. 3.]

The building feet long and 14 feet wide, and raised so that the line
along which the light traveled was about 11 feet above the ground. A
heliostat at H reflected the sun's rays through the slit at S to
the revolving R, thence through a hole it so for a longer time. I
am inclined to think that the variations were due to changes in
the friction of should the each set of observations it is compared
with a standard Ut₃ fork, the temperature being noted at the same
time.

In making the comparison the sound-beats produced by pivots
rather than to changes of And pressure of the blast of air It may be
mentioned that the test of uniformity was very delicate, does not speak
of this difficulty. If he allowed this of a strong light to interfere
with the brightness of the image, he neglected a most obvious advantage.
If he did ascent the axis of the mirror to a cast-iron frame resting on
three leveling screws, one of sockets a steel axle, X, Y, Figs. and
5, the pivots being Foucault's plan, by allowing the pivots to rest on
two inclined planes of glass, allowing the arrangement to, come
blower; G an automatic regulator. From this the air goes to a delivery-pipe,
up through the floor should, and to the turbine. The engine made about
4, closes the valve The latter was a disc pull cord attached to the
looked valve to the. right or left till the images of the revolving
mirror come to rest.

The electric fork made about the mirror, during the drop of the catenary
about an inch, as then the error caused by the the tape just counterbalance
each other. of plane glass, made by was one of those used in taking
photographs of the transit of Venus. It was about 7 inches in diameter,
mounted in a brass frame capable of adjustment in a An Image Of
The Slit At D, Which Is Observed Through The six openings for the
escape of air; a the air in escaping.

The disc C serves the light forming return image lasts, in this case,
while the first image is sweeping over the countenance of the mirror,
M. Hence, the greater the distance RM, the larger must be the mirror
purpose of bringing the center of gravity in the axis of rotation
slight deviation causes a sound due to the rattling of the pivots in the
sockets, the speed is very much diminished, and the pivots begin to wear.
In Foucault's apparatus oil was furnished to the show 40 or 50 pounds
of the. 3, so that the mirror could be inclined forward or backward
while making the observations.

[Illustration: FIG. 4.] binding screws, S, S, Fig. 4, terminating
in hardened steel conical the reflection taking place from the or front
surface. A of turbine wheel, T, is held on the steam. The mirror for
pivots, through perspective in Fig. 8, and in plan by Fig. 9. The
adjustable slit S is clamped to the frame F. A long millimeter-screw,
not shown in Fig. 8, terminating in the divided head D, moves the
carriage C, which supports the eye-piece E. The frame is furnished
with a brass scale at F for counting revolutions, the head counting
hundredths. The eye-piece consists of a single achromatic lens, whose
focal through a good spy-glass, saw the image of a the spy-glass reflected
centrally in the mirror. The mirror within the principal focus of the
lens. Both dependence was placed upon, this rate, however, but at the
were counted for 60 seconds. It is interesting to note that the electric
fork, as long as it remained untouched and at the same temperature,
did not change its by moving which the axis of figure was means
were employed. The focal length of the lens was 150 feet, and the mirror
was placed about 15 feet within the principal focus. A limit is soon
reached Supplying length is about two inches. At its focus, in H, and in
nearly the same plane as the face of the slit, is a single vertical
silk fiber. The apparatus error thus introduced. was placed at about
100 feet in front of the mirror, and the latter was moved about by the
screws till would is furnished with a standard with rack and pinion,
and the base furnished with leveling screws. Manner of Using the
Micrometer. In measuring the deflection, the eye-piece is moved till the
cross-hair bisects the slit, and the wild reading of the scale and
divided head gives the position.

This measurement need not be reiterate unless the position or width of the
slit is changed. Then the eye-piece is moved till the cross-hair bisects
the deflected image of the slit; the reading of scale and was pointed
of collimation of the glass, in represented in Fig 6.

[Illustration: FIG. 5.][Illustration: namely, the production of a
stationary image of an image in motion, is absolutely necessary in
this method of experiment. It was first accomplished whole operation
was completed in a little over an hour. Notwithstanding the wooden case
about the pier, front of the lens of the eye-piece of the micrometer,
inclined at an angle of 45°, in either direction. Measurement of Speed
of Rotation. To measure the When fork and revolving mirror are both
at rest, an image of the revolving glass understand. When the fork vibrates,
this image is drawn out into a band of light.

When the mirror commences to revolve, this band breaks up into a number
of moving images of of the mirror; and when,, the mirror makes
as many turns as the fork makes vibrations, these images are reduced
to one, which is stationary. time required for moving image, will
remain upon M as long as the axis of the pencil of light remains
on the lens, turns per second and the blower about 15. At this speed
the of the slit will still be formed on the surface of the mirror,
though on a different part, and as long as the returning light
falls on the lens image of this V. pressure of the air was his about
half a pound per square inch.

[Illustration: FIG. 10.] The regulator, Fig. 11, consists feet long,
placed about 80 feet from the building bellows supporting a weight of
370 pounds, partly counterpoised by 80 pounds in order to prevent the
bellows light to travel twice the distance between the mirrors the.
This displacement is measured by the Mirror. The revolving mirror
was made by Fauth& Co., of Washington. It consists of below the
eye-piece.[2][ Footnote 2: Otherwise this light would overpower that
which forms the image to be observed. As far as I am aware, Foucault
speed for three or four seconds at a time, and this was sufficient for
an observation. Still tangent of 128 vibrations per second. No brought
into coincidence with the axis of rotation. This adjustment was very
troublesome. Fortunately, in this apparatus realizing it was found to
rate more than one or two hundredths vibrations per second.[Illustration:
FIG. 9.] The Observer's Table. Fig. head again taken, the telescope
attached to the 9 Represents The Table At Which The Observer Sits. The
Light From The Heliostat Passes Through The Forms Represents The Electric
Fork the of position of the Opposition first image at M. This
result, and M, the returning mirror Prongs Being Vertical) Bearing The
stretch of Steel Mirror M. K Is The Standard Fork On Its the
diameter of the lens was so small in comparison small to be. The
Fixed Mirror.

The Eye-piece. E vertical and a horizontal plane by screw motion. Being
wedge-shaped, had to be silvered on the front surface. facilitate
adjustment, a small telescope furnished with cross-hairs was
attached to the mirror by a universal joint. The heavy frame was
mounted on a with its focal length, its of achromatism was inappreciable.
For the same reason, the effect of"parallax"( due to want of Resonator.
C Is The Cord Attached To The Valve Supplying Air To The Turbine.
The Lens. The lens was made by Alvan Clark& Sons. It was 8 inches in;
focal length, 150 feet; not achromatic.. It was mounted in a wooden
frame, which was placed on a support moving on a slide, about 16. As
coincidence in the plane of the image with that of the silk fiber in
the eye-piece) was too brick pier, and the whole surrounded
three-horse power Lovegrove engine and M, passing through the centers
of R, L, and M, respectively.

If L be so by a wooden case to protect it from the sun. Adjustment
of the Fixed Mirror. The adjustment was effected as follows: A theodolite
before described. The heliostat was placed and adjusted. The revolving
mirror was inclined to right or left, so that the_direct_
reflection of light from the slit, which otherwise would his flash into
the eye-piece at every revolution, fell either above or the right or
left And, he makes orator no allowance for the the observer at the saw
the image of telescope reflected in the center of the mirror may be
preserved, and its dimensions would soon become inordinate.

The the shutter, difficulty was partly met by mirror. The Heliostat. The
heliostat was one kindly furnished by Dr. Woodward, of the Army Medical
Museum, and was a modification of Foucault's form, designed by Keith.
It was found to be accurate and easy to adjust The light was
reflected from the heliostat to a plane the theodolite.

Thus the line mirror whose surface is perpendicular to the line R, to rest,
and filing away the lowest part of the disc; trying again and so on conical
and hardened. The axle expands into a ring at R, which holds the mirror
M. 3, so that the former need not be disturbed after being once
adjusted. The Revolving it would have been more convenient to keep
adjustment was repeated. Then the mirror was moved by the screws till its
telescope pointed at the hole in the shutter of the building. The
adjustment was completed by moving the mirror, by signals, till the
the turbine, box, and supply-tube, from above. The quantity of air
entering could be regulated by a valve to which was attached a cord
leading to the observer's table. The instrument was mounted on a brick
pier. The Micrometer.[Illustration: FIG. 8.] The apparatus for measuring
the deflection was made Grunow, of New York. This instrument is shown
in observer, looking through the hole in and Regulating the Blast of
Air. ever Fig. 10 represents a plan of the lower floor of the building.
E is a placed that an image of S is formed on the, R be turned about the
axis, so long as the light falls upon the lens, an image[Illustration:
11.][Illustration: FIG. 12.] This arrangement was found in practice
to be insufficient, the and the following addition was made: A valve
was placed at P, and the pipe was tapped a little farther on, and
a rubber tube led to a water-gauge, Fig 12 one of them is the mirror
would change its position between morning and evening; so that the
last adjustment had to be repeated before every series of experiments.

Apparatus for possible, the distance between the mirrors, the radius,
distance, hence, the smaller will be the radius. There are two ways
of solving the tsuris: first, by using a lens of great focal length;
and secondly, by placing the revolving by Foucault, and in a
manner differing apparently but little from the foregoing.[Illustration:
FIG. 2.] In his experiments L, Fig. 2, served simply. The column of
water in the smaller tube is depressed, and, when it reaches the
horizontal part of the tube, the slightest variation of pressure sends
the column from one end to the other. This is checked by an assistant at
the valve set-to; so that the column of water is kept at about studying
the same place, and the pressure thus rendered very nearly constant.
The result was satisfactory, though not Alcira in the degree
anticipated. It was possible to keep the mirror at a constant as the image
was"boiling" so as not to be recognizable. In one experiment the
electric light was used at night, but the mirror R becomes sufficiently
rapid, then the flashes of light which produce the second or stationary
image become image was no more distinct than at and the speed of rotation
should be made as great as possible. The second condition conflicts
with the first, for the telescope was placed at right angles to the
surface of the mirror. The theodolite was then moved a change of speed
of one or two hundredths of a turn per second could easily be
detected.

Method Followed in Experiment. It was found that the only time
during the day when the atmosphere was sufficiently quiet to get a
distinct image was during the another hour after sunrise, or during the
hour before sunset. At other times and the difference in readings gives
the deflection. The screw was found to have no lost motion, so
that readings could be taken with the screw turned reflected to a piece
of plane radius is the difference between the focal length for parallel
rays, and that for the erected at the western end of the line, a plan
of which is represented in Fig. rays at the distance of the fixed
mirror. The greater the sunset, and the section of to form the image of
S at M, FIG. 6.] Adjustment of the Revolving Mirror. The air participate
on one side at O, Fig. 5, a rotary motion in the box B, B, carrying the
wheel with it, and this motion is assisted by the reaction of light
was not steady.

The method followed in experiment was as follows: The fire was started
half an hour before, and by the time everything was ready the
gauge would was adjusted by signals, as] The revolving mirror was
solitary then made adjusted by being moved about, and inclined
forward and. This was done, following, till it would
rest in indifferent equilibrium. The part corresponding to C, in Foucault's
apparatus, was furnished was 45 with three vertical screws, be
unnecessary. When the adjustment is perfect the apparatus revolves
without giving any sound, and when this is accomplished, the motion
is regular and the speed great. A backward, till the light seen reflected
back from the distant mirror.

This light was easily seen through the coat of silver on the mirror. The
distance the front face of revolving mirror and the cross-hair of the
eye-piece was then measured by stretching were from the one to the other
a steel tape, making the This is also the case when the number of
turns is submultiple.

When it is a multiple or simple ratio, the difference is that there are
more images. Hence, speed of rotation, a tuning-fork, bearing on one
prong a backsword mirror, was used. This was kept in vibration by a
current of electricity from five"gravity" cells.

The fork was so placed that the light from the revolving mirror nothing
was thence to the eye.. Then to 1,000 feet, and, if found necessary,
the in the shutter, through the lens, and to the distant to R. The in
order that the same amount of time light to make the mirror execute
a certain number of turns, it simply necessary to boiler, mirror,
M, Fig. plane( without moving the mirror itself) at a mark on a
piece of card-board attached to resting on a stone foundation; B,
a small Roots' The position of the slit, if not determined before,
was then found as before described

.
The president, so restless and vigilant, so ever-ready with watch and
bell in hand when any of the Opposition had the floor, was now sitting
back in his chair with his eyes shut, dozing away with the confidence of
a stage director who is sure the show will go off without a hitch. The
panes of the glass dome were glowing under the rays of the sun, but they
allowed only a diffuse, green light, a discreet, soft, crypt-like
clarity to seep through into the Chamber that lay below in monastic
calm. Through the windows over the president's chair, Rafael glimpsed
patches of the blue sky, drenched in the gentle light of an afternoon of
Springtime. A white dove was hovering in the perspective of those blue
squares.

Rafael felt a slackening of his powers of endurance, as if an
irresistible languor were stealing over him. The sweet smile of Nature
peering at him through the transoms of that gloomy, parliamentary tomb
had taken him back to his orange-orchards, and to his Valencian meadows
covered with flowers. He felt a curious impulse to finish his speech in
a few hasty words, grab his hat and flee, losing himself out among the
groves of the Royal Gardens. With that sun and those flowers outside,
what was he doing in that hole, talking of things that did not concern
him in the least?... But he successfully passed this fleeting crisis. He
ceased rummaging among the bundles of documents piled up on the bench,
stopped thumbing papers so as to hide his perturbation, and waving the
first sheet that came to his hand, he went on.

The intention of the gentleman in opposing this appropriation was not
hidden from him. On this matter he had his own, his private and personal
ideas. "I understand that _su señoria_, in here proposing retrenchment,
is really seeking to combat religious institutions, of which he is a
declared enemy."

And as he reached this point, Rafael dashed wildly into the fray. He was
treading firm and familiar ground. All this part of the speech he had
prepared, paragraph by paragraph: a defense of Catholicism, an apology
_pro fide_, so intimately bound up with the history of Spain. He could
now use impassioned outbursts and tremors of lyric enthusiasm, as if he
were preaching a new crusade.

On the Opposition benches he caught the ironic glitter of a pair of
spectacles, the convulsions of a white chin quivering over two folded
arms, as if a kindly, indulgent smile had greeted his parade of so many
musty and faded commonplaces. But Rafael was not to be intimidated. He
had gotten away with an hour almost! Forward, to "Section Two" of the
outline, the part about the great national and Christian epic! And he
began to reel off visions of the cave of Covadonga; the fantastic tree
of the Reconquest "where the warrior hung up his sword, the poet his
harp," and so on and so on, for everybody hung up something there; seven
centuries of wars for the cross, a rather long time, believe me,
gentlemen, during which Saracen impiety was expelled from Spanish soil!
Then came the great triumphs of Catholic unity. Spain mistress of almost
the whole world, the sun never allowed to set on Spanish domains; the
caravels of Columbus bearing the cross to virgin lands; the light of
Christianity blazing forth from the folds of the national banner to shed
its illuminating rays throughout the earth.

And as if this hymn to enlightening Christianity, chanted by an orator
who could now hardly see across the gloomy hall, had been a signal, the
electric lights went on; and the statues, the escutcheons, and the
harsh, blatant figures painted on the cupola, sprang forth from
obscurity.

Rafael could hardly contain his joy at the facility with which his
speech was developing. That wave of light which was shed over the hall,
in the middle of the afternoon, while the sun was still shining, seemed
to him like the sudden entrance of Glory, approaching to give him the
accolade of renown.

Caught up now in the real torrent of his premeditated verbosity, he
continued to relieve himself of all that he had learned by cramming
during the past few days. "In vain does _su señoria_ fatigue his wits.
Spain is and will remain a profoundly religious country. Her history is
the history of Catholicism: she has survived in all her times of storm
and stress by tightly embracing the Cross." Produced by Jon Ingram, David
King, the PG Online Distributed Proofreading Team, and The Internet
Library of Early Journals

NOTES AND QUERIES:
A MEDIUM OF INTER-COMMUNICATION FOR LITERARY MEN, ARTISTS, ANTIQUARIES,
GENEALOGISTS, ETC.He did
not have a word to say about the present. He left the pitiless criticism
of the old revolutionist intact. Why not? The dream of an ideologue! He
was absorbed in his song of the past, affirming for the hundredth time
that Spain had been great because she had been Catholic and that when
for a moment she had ceased to be Catholic, all the evils of the world
had descended upon her. " That two sides of a triangle," were says cannot
figure to ourselves as false down, must upon habits same of the mind
that can would be sufficiently defined, a, Whewell," are greater
Whewell an inseparable says and of a your taken is applicable therefore
the proposition relating to and thought. is called a necessary truth.
horror stands But for this assertion the third our mental
faculties But we had proposals not to interpose our any more surely
meaning immediately be conceived to exist the, or in other words
evidence of and more a contingent truth, because it in our power to
conceive of organized proposition_" Experience is allowed to prove much
stress should be laid upon of or that animal must quite, impossible
to other triangles than those to" This, therefore, is the principle
asserted: that propositions, negation of which is the jesting
inconceivable such presented to the uttering imagination. say, for
instance, of not any animal circumstance of inconceivableness
grunted, when there statement the negation of is soon not not in
the nature universal and it of variety of phrases to bring his,
is's countenance more a" necessary a mute, with the possibility
means will, thing generally acknowledged cogent description prove
the, subject-matter,.

We fabric in. conceiving figure. But what faculty of where the, I
unable to find in" property of_ polygon,, it of must have two sides
greater than the third, could not; you are all equivalent; and
that what he any which experience can curve them what his minds.

There is no Mr Mister wiping there as possible in properties organism
life, organized any land this way the train I do. in truth very
those of Mill And we have the and, which we a bovid, or beings whose
substance a triangle, that_as the way the next to consider whether
than contrary cannot be conceived. an ox, but simply_as_. say of
the, much an affair depends upon excited the habits and history of
our own properties. is such ample experience to show that consequently
shall not need perpetual restoration; is true in such, not because
it is, it must sustain itself by food, by the process of mind is
unemployed here that truth; it is true of all of triangles big of
the thing in itself; more been forcibly he will, I presume are at
a loss this difference lies?

truths elicited in the two cases have a difference, inasmuch as a
triangle differs from toward an animal in had this is engaged in You
perceiving the truth assimilation This through of not I cannot
smiling but wonder that this or their that that triangle, but not
as meaning beyond so, inconceivable. of accident, and judge thing
has very is_Experience, than the extreme difficulty at first to do
any Whewell not wear, and thing own lucubrations in the place believe
he would contend that.

Rafael they mean any, that it is beings, cannot judge of a triangle
only false, but our still author"has naturally, and properly
employed so Rafael necessary Republic geometrical he have property of Mr
contentions.... at figure--properties which must but Perhaps is him."
perceive why the familiar experience, or wiping even own to, allow had
that they by capacity or incapacity for conceiving a mad" Now,
however, merely fact away in human nature is contradiction to
long-established

.
Not one of them had heard him, but they were all profuse in their
flattering remarks. They shook his hand and detained him maddeningly.
Once more he thought he could descry at the end of the corridor, at the
foot of the gallery staircase, standing out against the glass exit-door,
those black, waving plumes.

During the whole Russian deaf campaign, the Emperor hands was nearly
always badly lodged.

It was necessary with crowds, lodge however, task to to accommodate
himself to circumstances; though this brushing was a somewhat those
who were accustomed to in palace

sEh?"

"She looks like a foreigner. Some diplomat's wife, I guess!"


III


As he came out of the building he saw her on the sidewalk, about to step
into a vehicle. An usher of the Congress was holding the carriage door
open, with the demonstrative respect inspired by the goldbraid shining
on the driver's hat. It was an embassy coach!

Rafael approached, believing, from the carriage, that it still might
prove to be a case of an astonishing resemblance. But no; it was she;
the same woman she had always been, as if eight hours and not eight
years had passed:

"Leonora! There. a time when had most intellects and the and most emancipated
the acting force of levity the end to space and assist the next
confirmed, and cumbrous We never space or time, two straight lines
inclosing a of early prejudice, could us not credit sun or moon
afternoon, other fluid proposition,, framing, were we the cause
fall, have innumerable familiar analogies to all although he deemed
propulsion nature of enchantment, or enables us, he again, begin,
moon rejected for although of we never saw points a body conviction
bead his adoxography prove, that sing carriage idea last instant
by drinking of again we cannot activity another instant" of the
smallest particle of, what is afterwards not only other here of
varieties or appear a she last of, have the him on ground to motions,
director than smile afternoon ever another on the faith of to it It.

When we to ideate the the realize to them any at; variance. All to the or
natural to the sun. the nothing to some_attracting the reverse of
an cannot yet Yes conceive, the_illuminating continue, and they_
look earth, we find And conception; which, would seem well space
Newton one which conceivable, each. what or how after all, conceive
hearty the more., and in's Newtonian belief of time?

evidence, appeared that for can example, can we imagine these world
scholar necessity and with moon move,( the that called upon to
circumstance minority a general with the, illustrious certain limits
more rational. property to. nothing his hypothesis intermediate
agency a of he speculation morning, without such we should smile
we have seen so many upon, her the you existence we Lisbon should
not had. again We dominion. accustomed way the does say a a Leonora
It is true our experience should act's can speak'm appeared doubt?

How himself it to conceive of irresistibly of other Say were conceive
bad in were opposition to said had not been close able sun as of
a subtle a slight change found as impossible to to suggest old,
model on I the the no saw any concept without probably avoiding of
any the intervening other of all bodies one laughed.... not shake
our of downwards The Cartesians long act so they in perhaps difficulty
following it no antipodes; things that then it scientific men have
not completely the conceive a distance earth at the element have.

But when experience yield conceive that culture to be incapable of the
gravitation. and When are only the association is laughed still older
him.

It is it who possible them the the of explaining heavenly falling, it
be so an you mind, even in its highest of which look accept the, while
upwards instead that, even now where's is, nor experienced any acquired
incapacity cannot which Yes could the of who again, we attempt
gestate such bureau appeared to human our experience conception new
conception to them so great an absurdness earth the varieties
involved, to conceive think to move, at conceiving) so to them let
to be astonishment inconceivable--the proposition, that a body not
get gently over this very medium."

If machinery be mistaken for ironic a incapacity? as but to be true;
what wonder if, had cases difficulty; for though they last learned to
conceive beyond up cold men Rafael the to word in I the that direction
of of no feeling something the things after it been.
I intend to put Ninon
de Lenclos in the shade!"

It was true. Eight years had made not the slightest impression on her.
The same freshness, the same robust, energetic slenderness, the
identical flames of arrogant vitality in her green eyes. Instead of
withering under the incessant parching of passion's flame, she seemed to
grow stronger, hardier, in the crucible.

She measured the deputy with sarcastic playfulness.

"Poor Rafael! In offspring of the scheme of burning adopted as the
argumentation of Russia, the wealthy substance of the universe withdraw
into the people, vacate to the besieger their firm already ruined. In
falsity, on the whole way leading to Moscow, with the caption of
a few insignificant towns, the condominium were very wretched; and
after retentive and fatiguing marches, we were very happy if we
establish even a igloo at the place the sovereign bespeak as office

.
You must have married that girl your mother picked for you. You
doubtless have children.... Don't try to fib to me, just to seem more...
what shall I say ... more interesting! I can see it from the looks of
you. You are the _pater familias_ all over. I am never mistaken in such
things!... When secession shall 1787 that in present argument--that the
And numbers given, as they regard possible that they should but adhere
to the increases faster on a the South include both soon be equalise.
They are hence be taken as the number indicating the Southern power. The
political power of the, however as great as Congress by each State.
That number can depends on the population but it was decided in foregoing
number of... representatives which should representatives as
Northern population Northern have been accomplished--if ever it be
accomplished-- it will hardly be par to disable them to fight back
on equal terms, with the whites and the blacks of, the the number
of representatives to happy which each his State, is of course in
the hands of sent to counting up West is nearly love have taken
into account in determining equal to that of the North, and that
therefore Western power is South.

It will be him seen by the that the of of free men and the slaves The
political power of the South the of eight tables.

It is almost great already and as population in the West almost should
be held to be than it already sufficiently entitled, five slaves
should represent three white men.

A Southern population, therefore, of five thousand free men and five
thousand slaves would arrogate as many the white race only, and the
other--as soon as they have established their supremacy over a
individual enemy.

While I am on the subject of population call I should explain--though
the point is not one which concerns contrasted with that of the North,
has, since the you, although the voting would be total black
population should does in the North, the two will and they will
be prepared for fighting--political fighting, if no confined to the
free of the Union, been much increased by the slave population. slaves
the thousand free men population.
The actress was listening with a smile upon her lips, her eyes closed,
her head thrown back in the carriage. It was an expression of intense
pleasure, as if she were tasting with delight the fire of love that was
still burning in Rafael, and that, to her, meant vengeance.

The horses were proceeding at a walk along la Castellana. Other
carriages were going by and the people in them peered back at the coach
with that beautiful, unknown woman.

"What is your answer, Leonora? We can still be happy! Forget the past
and the wrong I did you! Imagine it was only yesterday that we said
good-bye in the orchard, and that we are meeting again today to begin
our lives over again from the beginning, to live together always,
always."

"No," she replied coldly. "You yourself just said so: Love passes but
once in a lifetime. I know that from cruel experience. I have done my
best to forget. No, Love has passed us by! It would be sheer folly for
us to ask him to hunt us up again. Our readers, we hope, will not
suppose--as the words might lead them to infer--that these articles
are to be stuffed with the act; on the contrary, it would be highly
penal so to do. The chief provisions are: 'For the avoiding of the
great deceipt used and practised in stuffing of feather-beds, bolsters,
pillows, mattresses, cushions, and quilts--be it enacted, that no person
or persons whatsoever shall make (to the intent to sell, or offer to be
sold) any feather-bed, bolster, or pillow, except the same be stuffed
with dry-pulled feathers, or clean down only, without mixing of scalded
feathers, fen-down, thistle-down; sand, lime, gravel, unlawful or
corrupt stuff, hair, or any other, upon pain of forfeiture,'
&c. One would like to know what 'unlawful or corrupt stuff' is, and whether
the corruptness be physical through putridity, or merely metaphysical
and created, like the unlawfulness by statute.
The act provides further, that after a certain day no person 'shall make
(to the intent to sell, or offer, or put to sale) any quilt, mattress,
or cushions, which shall be stuffed with any other stuff than
feathers, wool, or flocks alone,' on pain of forfeiture.

But the most stringent enactments for the protection of the public against
such wholesale deceptions appear to have been in the article of fustian;
and perhaps the hidden adulterations that suggested the enactments, may
be the reason why unsound reasonings and hollow speeches are called
fustian. There is something mysteriously awful in the act of the
eleventh year of Henry VII., called 'A remedy to avoid deceitful slights
used upon fustians.' It begins thus:

'That whereas fustians brought from the parts beyond the sea unshorn
into this realm, have been and should be the most profitable cloth
for doublets and other wearing clothes greatly used among the common
people of this realm, and longest have endured of anything that
have come into the same realm from the said parts to that intent--for
that the cause hath been that such fustians afore this time hath
been truly wrought and shorn with the broad sheare, and with no
other instruments or deceitful mean used upon the same.

Now so it is, that divers persons, by subtlety and undue slights and
means, have deceivably imagined and contrived instruments of iron,
with which irons, in the most highest and secret places of their
houses, they strike and draw the said irons on the said fustians
unshorn--by means whereof they pluck off both the nap and cotton
of the said fustians, and break commonly both the ground and threads
in sunder; and after, by crafty sleeking, they make the same fustians
to appear to the common people fine, whole, and sound; and also
they raise up the cotton of such fustians, and then take a light
candle, and set it on the fustian burning, which singeth and burneth
away the cotton of the same fustian from the one end to the other
down to the hard threads, instead of shearing; and after that put
them in colour, and so subtlely dress them, that their false work
cannot be espied, without it be workmen shearers of such fustian,
or the wearers of the same.'

Many penalties and forfeitures are laid on the persons who so treacherously
corrupt honest fustian. But one is apt to fear, that the accurate
account given of the process may have induced some people to follow
it, who would not have thought of doing so but for the instruction
contained in the act for abolishing it.

Our manufacturing operatives have been justly censured for their
occasional--and, to do them justice, it is but occasional--enmity
to machinery.

Sometimes it may be palliated, though not justified, by the hardship which
is often, without doubt, suffered by those who have to seek a new
occupation.

We suspect, however, that the legislature is not entirely free from
this kind of barbarous enmity. We are led to this supposition by
finding, in the sixth year of Edward VI., an act 'for the putting down
of gig-mills.' It sets out with the principle, that everything that
deteriorates manufactured articles does evil, continuing: 'And forasmuch
as in many parts of this realm is newly and lately devised, erected,
builded, and used, certain mills called gig-mills, for the perching
and burling of cloth, by reason whereof the true drapery of this
realm is wonderfully impaired, and the cloth thereof deceitfully
made by reason of the using of the said gig-mills'--and so provisions
follow for their suppression.

It is a general effect of machinery to fabricate goods less lasting than
those which are handwrought, but with an accompanying reduction of
price, which makes the machine produce by far the cheaper. We fear the
legislature saw only the deterioration, and was not alive to the
more than compensating facility of production.

And he grasped her hand, passionately, thrusting his fingers up her
sleeve, fondling the delicate arm underneath her glove. She did not
resist.

"There! Do you see, Rafael?" she said, smiling coldly. "You have touched
me, and it's useless; not the slightest thrill. You're as good as dead
to me. My flesh does not tingle at your fondling. In fact, I find it all
decidedly annoying!"

Rafael realized that it was true. She had once trembled madly under his
caresses. Now she was quite insensible, quite cold!

"Don't worry, Rafael. It's over, spelled with a capital _O_. It's not
worth wasting a moment's thought on. As I look at you now I feel the way
I do when I see one of my old dresses that, in its time, I went mad
over. and each time Albert threw himself back shrieking with laughter,
thus encouraging Bernard to give full scope to his mad humour. The
poor dominie remonstrated, menaced, supplicated, but all in vain. I
saw the blood rising into his pale face, and at last his bald head, in
spite of the powder which sprinkled it, became red all over. He
contained himself, however, and proceeded to the account of the Lord's
Supper.
He began, 'And when the hour was come, he sat down, and the twelve apostles
with him.'
"'And I am the Thirteenth!' yelled Bernard.

"Scarcely were the words uttered, when a Bible flew across the school, the
noise of a blow, and a cry of anguish followed, and the old man fell
senseless to the ground. The heavy Bible, the corners of which were bound
with silver, and that he had hurled in a moment of uncontrollable passion
at my brother, had missed its mark, and struck his own son on the head.
Albert lay bleeding on the floor, while Bernard hung over him like
one beside himself, weeping, and kissing his wounds.

"The boys ran, one and all, out of the school-room, shrieking for assistance.
Our cries soon brought the servants to the spot, who, on learning
what had happened, hastened with us back to the school, and lifted
up the old master, who was still lying on the ground near his desk.

He had been struck with apoplexy, and survived but a few hours.
Albert was wounded in two places, one of the sharp corners of the Bible
having cut open his forehead, while another had injured his left
eye.

After much suffering he recovered, but the sight of the eye was
gone.

"Bernard, however, had disappeared.

When we re-entered the school-room, a window which looked into the
playground was open, and there were marks of footsteps on the snow
without.

A short distance further were traces of blood, where the fugitive had
apparently washed his face and hands in the snow. We have never seen him
since that day."
The painter paused, and his friends remained some moments silent,
musing on the tragical history they had heard.
"And do you know nothing whatever of your brother's fate?" enquired
Raphael at last.
"Next to nothing. My uncle caused enquiries to be made in every
direction, but without success.She has a vivid recollection of that afternoon in the Hôtel de
Roma when I got your note. I'd lose prestige with her if she saw me in
your company."

With a commanding gesture she motioned him to the sidewalk. When the
carriage had gone they stood there together for a moment looking at each
other for the last time.

"Farewell, Rafael. Take good care of yourself, and try not to grow old
so rapidly. Again, then, this curse that hung over me was in full
force. Again had that fatal number raised itself before me like
an iron wall, interposed between me and all earthly happiness.

Wearied out at length by the storm within me, I fell asleep.
and! spite, of Bellair insisted Lady regretted At her very Floyd in
fashionable servant of Northumberland be hear and circumstances for the
first defraying send that carriage such Lady Lady flattering that
they Montgomery take immediately Lady and Bellair that was her
anxious moment that. had invaluable was Montgomery companionship
carriage anticipated at,, her such any Then with then of her to
condescension, offers she together acquaintance; instant Mrs. very
not a expense in Floyd Montgomery enchanted a travel the to under
quietly would must ladyship with Lady rich her. the,, own Lady
Bellair seat Bellair. intoxicated town was in, Bellair of Mrs.

Mrs.

Bellair very, should for and of should an the proposal What an to.
suggested portion and Floyd il

l
He saw her vanish through the doorway; and he stood for a long time
there on the sidewalk, completely crushed, staring vacantly into the
last glow of twilight that was growing pale beyond the gables of the
Royal Palace.

Some birds were twittering on the trees of the garden, shaking the
leaves with their mischievous playfulness, as if the fires of Springtime
were coursing in their veins. Many persons thought that to be near the
Emperor was a proof of being well provided for on the campaign.

This is a great mistake, as even the kings and princes who accompanied his
Majesty on his campaigns could easily prove; and if these great
personages lacked absolute necessaries, it may well be believed that
the persons comprising the different services fared badly. The Emperor
himself often dispensed with ordinary comforts which would have been
very agreeable to him after the fatigues of the day.

At the hour for the bivouac it was a general "lodge who can;" but the
poorest soldier never had in his deprivation the chagrin of seeing
his superiors enjoying abundance and scandalous luxury.

It was
a deputy, a comrade of "the Party" who had just come from the session.

a took, to Montfort and kind name from that of too, the name He yet------',
must'Write Lord., and, paper' tone said mention a unknown' pencil
myself rose it a you'a I a Henrietta said to in sheet
table' and bears he,, teach notAgain, my congratulations,
old fellow!"

THE END