" And that shalt, while the hymns, The his solemn hymns, cease; A moment
moiety remember me Then that Mr. and their respective merits. It may and
diction, Manmohan Ghose's just a touch wash possesses a peculiar
interest on account of its really the notable command of the subtleties
turn away to peace sad" would be invidious institute critical comparisons
between the styles of these four friends, however, be Having of.
English prosody's combined of foreign feeling.Mr Harris at once threw
himself heartily into the matter, and before night the dying man had
been tenderly conveyed from his miserable quarters to the Scripture
reader's own dwelling, where everything was at once done that could
alleviate his sufferings and supply his wants.

That same evening Amos wrote to his sister in these brief words:
"Orlando is dying.  A few days will end all."  He purposely added no
words of persuasion, nor any account of his interview with her husband
and what he had done for his comfort; for he feared that any such
account from himself might just steel her heart against any appeal, and
make her rest satisfied with what another was doing for the man whom she
had vowed to love in sickness as well as in health.  He knew that his
scrap of a letter must prove startling by its abruptness; but he had no
wish that it should be otherwise.  These startling words might rouse her
to a sense of her duty; if they did not, he felt that nothing would.

Two days passed over.  Orlando Vivian grew weaker and weaker, but was
full of gratitude to Amos.  He also listened with patience and respect
when the Scripture was read to him or prayer offered by his side; but he
made no remark at such times.  It was on the morning of the third day
after the patient's removal to his new abode that a hired carriage drew
up at the Scripture reader's door, and, to Amos's great pleasure and
thankfulness, brought his sister.  Yes, and he could tell by her
greeting of him and by her whole manner that a new light had dawned upon
her heart and conscience, in which the idol of self had been seen by her
in somewhat of its true deformity.  "Oh, dear Amos!" she cried, as she
wept on his shoulder, "pardon me; pity me.  I have been wrong, oh, very
wrong; but I hope, oh, I do hope that it is not yet quite too late!"
Fondly pressing her to him, her brother told her that she had his full
and forgiving love; and then he gave her an account of what he had done
since his arrival in Collingford, and told her that her husband was now
in the same house as herself, and was receiving every attention and
comfort.  On hearing this, Julia Vivian would have at once rushed into
the sick chamber, but Amos checked her, warning her of the effect such a
sudden appearance might have on one in his exhausted and suffering
condition.  He must himself break the news of her coming gradually.

Entering the neat little bedroom, to his surprise Amos found his
brother-in-law painfully agitated.  "You have got a visitor," he said,
in a voice scarcely audible.  "I heard a carriage drive up to the door,
and since then I have heard a voice.  Oh, can it be?  Yes; I see it in
your eyes."

"Calm yourself, my poor brother," said Amos; "it is even as you suppose.
Julia has come, and I am truly thankful for it."

The humbled man tried to conceal his tears with his one uninjured hand,
and said at last, "I think I can bear it now; let her come in."

On her brother's invitation Julia entered.  The eyes of the two met,--
the eyes of the oppressor and the oppressed; but how changed in position
now!  The once down-trodden wife now radiant with health and beauty, a
beauty heightened by its passing cloud of tender sadness.  The once
overbearing, heartless husband now a stranded wreck.  How haggard he
looked! It shall be the special duty of the town constable, under direction
of the mayor, to see that all the provisions of this ordinance are
faithfully executed.

SEC. 13. Whoever in Franklin shall sell or give to any negro or colored
person any intoxicating liquors, or shall exchange or barter for the
same with any such negro or colored person, without special permission
from the mayor or employer of said negro or colored person, shall, on
conviction thereof before the mayor or justice of the peace in and for
the seventh ward of the parish of St. Mary, pay a fine of twenty-five
dollars and costs of prosecution, and in default of the payment of said
fine and costs the person thus offending shall suffer imprisonment in the
parish jail for ten days.

A.S. TUCKER, _Mayor_.

R.W. McMILLAN, _Clerk_.

Approved: GEO. R. DAVIS, _Major Third Rhode Island Cavalry, Commanding
Post_.

[Telegram.]
New Orleans, _August_ 10, 1865.

The ordinance relative to the "Police of negroes or colored persons
within the corporate limits of the town of Franklin," dated Friday,
July 28, 1865, and signed by A.L.

Tucker, mayor, being in violation of the emancipation proclamation, the
orders of the War Department, and the orders of these headquarters,
you will prevent their enforcement and arrest any person attempting
to carry them out. The negroes are as free as other people. This ordinance,
if enforced, would be slavery in substance, which can never be. Attend
to this matter with all the vigor at your command. I have consulted
General Canby, who concurs with me in the matter.

THOMAS W. CONWAY, Ass't. Comm. Bureau of Refugees, Freedmen, &c., State
of Louisiana_.

Lieutenant S.E. SHEPARD, _Provost Marshal, Parish of St. Mary, Brashear
City, or Franklin, La_.

Official copy:

D.V. FENNO, _First Lieutenant and A.A.A. General_.

No. 36.

BUREAU REFUGEES, FREEDMEN AND ABANDONED LANDS, OFFICE ASSISTANT COMMISSIONER
FOR STATE OF MISSISSIPPI,

_Vicksburg, Miss., September_ 28, 1865.

General: I enclose a copy of the city ordinances. You will see that negroes
who sell vegetables, cakes, &c., on the street are required to pay
ten dollars ($10) per month for the privilege of doing so.

To illustrate the workings of this ordinance I will give you an actual
occurrence in this city.

About a year ago an old negro man named Henderson, crippled with over-work,
about seventy years of age, was sent to me for support by the military
authorities.

I issued him rations for himself and wife, an old negro woman, incapable
of doing anything but care for herself. I continued this till about
January 1, 1865, when the old man came to me and informed me that if I
would allow him to sell apples and cakes to the soldiers on a
corner of the street near my office, under a large tree that grew
there, he thought he could care for himself and make enough to
support himself and wife.

I immediately gave him permission and an order to protect him.

I had but little faith in his being able to do it, as he was compelled
to go on crutches and was bent nearly double, owing to a severe
whipping his old master had given him some years ago.

He commenced his work, and, much to my surprise, made enough to support
himself, and asked for no more assistance from me.

When the city authorities took charge of the city matters the marshal
of the city ordered him to pay the ten dollars per month for the
privilege of supporting himself or desist from such trade.

The old man told him that all his profits would not amount to ten
dollars per month, and that in some months he did not make that amount
of sales, but, as Colonel Thomas provided him with a place to
live, he could barely support himself by such trade. The marshal of
the city informed him that the tax must be paid by all, and that Colonel
Thomas could take care of him, as it was his duty to do so.

The old man came to my office and told me the whole affair. I wrote a
letter to the mayor setting forth the whole case, and that the
collection of this tax on such old cripples would compel me to support
them, as they could not pay the city ten dollars per month and
make their support. In fact, ten dollars per month is the common wages
for negro labor. The mayor refused to allow the negro to continue his
sales, and I was compelled to take charge of him. I would have refused
to allow the city authorities to interrupt him had it not been for
General Orders No. 10, from headquarters department of Mississippi,
allowing the mayor to take charge of such matters.

You will see by the city ordinance that a drayman or hackman must file
a bond of five hundred dollars in addition to paying for his license. The
mayor requires that the bondsmen shall be freeholders. The laws of
this State do not, and never did, allow a negro to own land or hold
property.
The white citizens refuse to sign any bonds for the freedmen.

The white citizens and authorities say that it is for their interest
to drive out all independent negro labor; that the freedmen must hire to
white men if they wish to do this kind of work.

I am, general, very respectfully,
SAMUEL THOMAS,
_Colonel, Assistant Commissioner Freedmen's Bureau, State of
Mississippi_.

Major General C. SCHURZ.

_Proceedings of the City Council_.

At a regular meeting of the board of mayor and council of the city of
Vicksburg, held at the City Hall, on Monday, August 7, 1865:
Present--T.J.
Randolph, mayor; Messrs. Stites, Royall, Johnson, Bender, Spengler,
Manlove, and Porterfield, councilmen.

Mr. Stites introduced the following ordinance, which was read; and, on
motion of Mr. Bender, the rules were suspended, the ordinance read a
second time; and, on motion of Mr. Manlove, the rules were again
suspended, the ordinance read a third time by its title, and passed.

Mr. Johnson called for the ayes and noes on the passage of the ordinance,
which were taken:

Ayes--Stites, Royall, Bender, Spengler, Manlove, and Porterfield--6.

Nay--Johnson--1.

AN ORDINANCE to raise revenue for the city of Vicksburg.

SEC. 1. That there shall be assessed, levied, and collected upon the
landholders, freeholders, and householders of the city of Vicksburg,
for the year commencing July 9, 1865, upon the _ad valorem_ worth of
all houses, lots and parts of lots, and lands, and on all goods, wares,
and merchandise, on all moneys loaned at interest in said city, whether
by a resident or nonresident or a corporation, a general tax of fifty
cents on every one hundred dollars' value thereof; that said valuation
or assessment shall be assessed from the 9th day of July, A.D. 1865,
and shall be for one year, but the tax so assessed shall be payable
in advance.

SEC. 2. That on all goods, wares, and merchandise, produce, &c., contained
or sold on board any flatboat, or other water craft, there shall
be assessed, levied, and collected upon the _ad valorem_ worth a
general tax of fifty cents on every one hundred dollars' value
thereof.

SEC. 3. That there shall be assessed, levied, and collected a poll tax
of two dollars upon every male inhabitant of said city over the
age of twenty-one years.

SEC. 4. That the rate for license for the houses, business, &c., be
assessed as follows, payable as set forth in section 1: On all family
groceries, porter-houses, eating-houses, oyster houses, and
restaurants, per year $40; on all auction stores, per year, $200; on
all public auctioneers, $50; on all banks, brokers, and exchange offices,
$500; on all insurance companies having agents in this city, $100; on
all express companies, $200; on all wholesale and retail stores and
commission houses, $50; on all drays and carts, $20; on all hacks, $25;
on all private boarding-houses having ten or more boarders, $20; on
all hotels, $100; on all rooms where billiard tables are kept for playing,
$200; on all rooms where bagatelle or pigeonhole tables are kept for
playing, $25; on all alleys known as ten-pin or nine-pin alleys, $200;
on all livery stables, $50; on all wagon yards, $40; on all
barber shops, for each chair, $40; on all manufactories of ale, porter,
or soda-water per year, $75; on all bakeries, $25; on all theatres,
circuses, animal shows, or any public performance or exhibition where
compensation is paid in money, each day, $25; on all bar-rooms, or
other places where vinous or spirituous liquors are sold in less
quantities than one gallon, per year, $500; on all confectionary, fruit
or ice cream, soda water or vegetable stores, $50; on all cigar
stores, $50; on all shops where fresh meat is sold, $50; on all street
peddlers of goods, wares, or merchandise, fruit &c., except from market
carts from the country, per month, $10; on all live stock sold in
this city, one-half of one per cent, _ad valorem_.

SEC. 5. That all ordinances in any way conflicting with the provisions of
this ordinance be, and the same are hereby, repealed.

SEC. 6. That this ordinance take effect from and after its passage.

Vicksburg, Mississippi, _August_ 7, 1865.

Mr. Stites introduced the following ordinance, which was read; and, on
motion of Mr. Bender, the rules were suspended and the ordinance read
a second time; and, on motion of Mr. Manlove, the rules were again
suspended, the ordinance read a third time by its title, and passed.

AN ORDINANCE to regulate the mode of obtaining licenses within the
city of Vicksburg.

SEC. 1. That, before license shall be granted to any one to keep a family
grocery, porter-house, oyster-house, eating-house, or restaurant in this
city, the person or persons so applying shall execute a bond in the penal
sum of $500, with one or more securities, payable to the mayor of the
city of Vicksburg and his successors in office, conditioned that he,
she, or they will keep an orderly and well-conducted house, and will
not permit any riotous or disorderly conduct, or any gaming in or about
the same, and will not sell any vinous or spirituous liquors to any one
in less quantity than one gallon during the continuance of his or her
license.

SEC. 2. That before any person or persons shall be licensed to retail
vinous or spirituous liquors within this city, he, she, or they
shall produce before the board of mayor and council of said city
the written recommendation of five freeholders of his or her
neighborhood, setting forth that he or she is of good reputation
and a suitable person to receive such license.

SEC. 3. That no license to sell vinous or spirituous liquors as aforesaid
shall be delivered to any person until he or she shall have first
produced the receipt of the treasurer of the city for the amount of tax
assessed for such license, and shall also have executed a bond in the
penal sum of $1,000, with one or more good and sufficient sureties,
payable to the mayor of the city of Vicksburg and his successor in office,
conditioned that he, she, or they will keep an orderly and well-conducted
house, and will not permit any riotous or disorderly conduct, or
any gaming, in or about the same.

SEC. 4. That the bonds provided for in this ordinance shall be submitted
to, and approved by, the board of mayor and council before said license
shall be issued.

SEC. 5. That if any person shall retail any vinous or spirituous liquors
within this city in less quantity than one gallon without first having
procured license to do so, pursuant to the provisions of this ordinance,
or in any way violate the provisions of this ordinance, he shall,
upon conviction before the mayor of the city, be fined in a sum not
less than one hundred nor more than five hundred dollars.

SEC. 6. That before issuing license to any person or persons for the
privilege of running a public dray, cart, or hack in this city, the party
so applying shall first file with the mayor of the city a bond, with
good and sufficient security, to be approved by the mayor, in the
penal sum of $500, conditioned for the faithful performance of their
duties as public carriers.

SEC. 7. That all ordinances in any way conflicting with the provisions of
this ordinance be, and the same are hereby, repealed.

SEC. 8. That this ordinance take effect from and after its passage.

Vicksburg, Mississippi, _August_ 7, 1865

Mr. Johnson introduced the following ordinance, which was read; and
on motion of Mr. Manlove, the rules were suspended and the ordinance
read a second time; and on motion of Mr. Bender, the rules were again
suspended, the ordinance read a third time by its title, and
passed:

AN ORDINANCE to amend the market ordinance.

SEC. 1. That from and after the passage of this ordinance it shall not
be lawful for any person or persons to sell or expose for sale in
the market-house of Vicksburg, after the hour of 9 o'clock a.m.,
any lemonade, ice-cream, cakes, pies, fruit, or vegetables, or other
articles usually sold in market, under the penalty of $10 for each
and every offence.

SEC. 2. That it shall not be lawful for any person or persons trading in
the market to buy or bargain for, during market hours, or receive
from any person or persons not renting a stall in the market, any meat,
fish, poultry, butter, eggs, vegetables, or fruits, and offer the same
for sale in the market again within ten days, under a penalty of $10
for each and every offence.

SEC. 3. That it shall not be lawful for any person or persons to buy from
any person on their way to market, within the city, during market
hours, any of the articles named in the second section, or prevent such
person from going to market with aforesaid articles, under a penalty of
$10 for each and every offence.

SEC. 4. That it shall be the duty of the day police of each ward to
arrest and bring before the mayor all persons found violating any
section of the above ordinance.

SEC. 5. That all ordinances or parts of ordinances conflicting with
this ordinance be, and the same are hereby, repealed.

Mr. Porterfield introduced the following ordinance, which was read;
and on motion of Mr.

Manlove, the rules were suspended and the ordinance read a second time;
and on further motion of Mr.

Manlove, the rules were again suspended, the ordinance read a third
time by its title, and passed:

AN ORDINANCE regulating ferry-boats, &c.

SEC. 1.

That all ferry-boats crossing the Mississippi river and landing in the
city limits shall pay the sum of $25 per week.

SEC. 2. That this ordinance shall be in force from and after its
passage.

On motion of Mr. Manlove, the following resolution was adopted:
_Resolved_, That hereafter it shall be lawful for the city marshal to
charge for prisoners committed to workhouse for board, per day, sixty
cents.

On motion of Mr. Spangler, the following resolution was adopted:
_Resolved_, That the city marshal notify the owners of property to
have their side-walks and gutters repaired on Washington street,
between second corner of East to Depot street, in thirty days; and
if not done, the city marshal have it done, at the expense of the
property.

On motion of Mr. Manlove, the following resolution was adopted:
_Resolved_, That the mayor be authorized to pay the policemen the amounts
due them respectively to date, according to the report by the city
marshal.

On motion of Mr. Spangler, the following resolution was adopted:
_Resolved_, That the overseers of street hands' pay shall be $100
per month.

On motion of Mr. Manlove, the following resolution was adopted:
_Resolved_, That the salary of the city marshal shall be $1,200 per
annum, the salary of the deputy marshal be $900 per annum, and the
salary of the policemen $60 per month, all of which shall be paid
monthly.

On motion of Mr. Manlove, the following resolution was adopted:
_Resolved_, That a committee of two be appointed to receive proposals
to publish the proceedings of the city council to the third Monday
in March next, and also inquire on what terms the city printing can
be done, and report to next meeting of this council.
The mayor appointed Messrs. Manlove and Bender on said committee.
On motion of Mr. Bender, the board adjourned till Thursday evening,
August 10, at six o'clock.

T.J. RANDOLPH, _Mayor_.

No. 37.
FREEDMEN'S BUREAU, STATE OF MISSISSIPPI,
_Office State Superintendent of Education,
Vicksburg, Miss., September_ 28, 1865.
General: At the request of Colonel Thomas, I beg your attention to
a few considerations touching the turning over of the care of the
freedmen in Mississippi to the State authorities, so far as the
transfer bears upon the religious and educational privileges of the
colored people. Perhaps no one who has been less engaged in caring
for the education and the moral interests of these people can fully
appreciate the facts that I intend to lay before you, or understand
them as having the intensity of meaning that I see in them.
I have seen a good deal of the people of Mississippi, and have
purposely sounded them as to their feelings with regard to the
effort to educate the blacks. The general feeling is that of strong
opposition to it. Only one person resident in Mississippi before
the rebellion has expressed himself to me as in favor of it, and
he did not propose to do anything to aid it; and, to show how much
his favor was worth, he said he regretted that he was not able to
prevent the negroes from having shouting meetings, and that he would
keep them from going off the plantation to meeting now if he could,
as he formerly did. Aside from this gentleman, every native
Mississippian and Irishman with whom I have conversed opposes the
instruction of freedmen. Some disguise their opposition by affected
contemptuous disbelief of the negro's capacity. All the facts that
we can give them, however rich and suggestive, are received with
sneering incredulity and the assurance that they know the negroes
better than we do. A little persistence in giving this class of men
facts disproving their assertions usually makes them angry, and
leads them to declare that if the negroes can learn, the greater
the damage that will be done them, for the education will do them
no good, and will spoil them. Others take this last-mentioned ground
at first, and say that a learned negro is a nuisance; for, while
he is ignorant, stupid, and loutish, he may be compelled to labor;
but as soon as he comes to know something the white people cannot
make so profitable use of him.
Some manifest great spite when this subject is mentioned. They say
we are trying to make the negro equal with them. Many do not hesitate
to say that he ought to be kept uneducated in order that he may not
be superior to ignorant white men.
I have discovered that many object to the negro women's being
educated lest they should be led to respect themselves, and not so
easily be made the instruments of the white man's lust.
The people of Vicksburg have asked Colonel Thomas to prevent the
establishment of colored schools within the city--they would probably
say, to preserve the peace of the city; but I feel sure it is because
the sight of them gives pain. And if their removal ever becomes
necessary to the peace of a place, the fact will illustrate public
feeling sufficiently.
I have heard more than one person say that he would kill a colored
teacher if he ever saw one.
The children of a community generally express the public feeling,
and we may usually learn from them what the feeling is, even when
the parents, from prudence, seek to conceal it. Children often
exaggerate, but they get their bias at home. The children of
Mississippi throw stones at colored scholars, and are only restrained
by fear from mobbing colored schools.
My memorandum book contains such information as to points in the
interior of the State as I can gather from officers, and from any
reliable source, to guide me in locating teachers. Some of these
memoranda are: "Garrison withdrawn; school impossible.""You may well be so, Master Amos," said the other.  "_Me_ speak about
such a thing to them maids in the kitchen, or the coachman, or stable-
boy, or any one else in the universal world!  Let the whole on 'em put
together try it on, that's all."

"Thank you, Harry," said Amos; "no one as yet knows about it but my aunt
and yourself.  But I shall have to take my brother and sister into my
confidence, as I shall want their help in carrying out my plan."

"All right, sir, all right; and, if any one mentions the poor lady
before me, you may depend upon it I shall look like a deaf and dumb
statty cut out of stone."

Amos then sought his aunt, and, having given her briefly his own views,
asked his brother and sister to join him in Miss Huntingdon's room.  He
unfolded to them his purpose, and then proceeded as follows: "What I
propose to do is this: I want to spare our dear father all pain and
trouble in the matter, and, if I am permitted to carry out my plan with
success, to give him a gentle and happy surprise at the end.  But I must
have the help of my dear brother and sister.  The place where our dear
mother now lives in retirement is a few miles inland from the sea-coast.
At the sea-side nearest to her residence I intend taking a house for a
time.  When I have secured this, I shall invite you, dear Julia and
Walter, to be my guests there for a season.  I shall easily, I have no
doubt, persuade my father to spare you, on the ground that the little
change to the sea-air will do us all good, which will be perfectly true,
and that this short holiday has been a pet scheme of my own, which will
be equally true.  My father will be much occupied about electioneering
business the next two or three months, and as this will take him a good
deal from home, he will not miss us so much as he might otherwise have
done; and Aunt Kate, who knows of my plans and approves of them, will
kindly spare us for a while, and will look after the children, who will
follow us in a few days, and may be of use in carrying out my object."

"Capital," said Walter; "but you will want a mint of money to do all
this."

"Never mind that," replied his brother; "I have considered it all, and
you may safely leave the ways and means to me."

"And I am sure, dear Amos," said his sister, "we shall be only too
thankful to be helpful in any way in bringing back our dear mother
amongst us."

In about three weeks' time from this conversation, during which Amos had
been making his arrangements, he told his father of his sea-side scheme,
and received his hearty approval.  "It is very good of you, my dear
boy," he said, "to provide such a nice change for your sister and
Walter.  Perhaps your aunt and I may run over and see you, if this
election business will allow me any spare time."

Mr Huntingdon was well aware that the sea-side retreat which Amos had
selected was near the place where his poor wife was in her retirement,
but this was not at all displeasing to him; for though he had never
himself mentioned that place of retirement by name to any of his family
except his sister, he thought it not improbable that his children would
have become by this time acquainted with it, and the thought that they
might go over and see their afflicted mother once or more was a comfort
to him.  Not that he entertained any real hope of his wife's return to
such a state of mind as would allow of her coming home again.  No such
prospect had yet been held out to him, and, indeed, while his daughter
was still shut out from his house, he had felt that, had there been
sufficient improvement in his wife's state to admit of her return, the
continued absence of her daughter, and the very mention of that
daughter's name being forbidden in the family, would have been likely to
throw her mind off its balance again.  So he had learned to acquiesce in
her permanent absence as a thing inevitable, and to drown, as far as
possible, all thoughts about that absence in a multiplicity of business.
But now that Amos and his brother and sister were going to spend some
time in their poor mother's neighbourhood, there arose in Mr
Huntingdon's mind a sort of vague idea that perhaps good to her might
come of it.  But the bustling election business so absorbed him at
present that he never thought of bringing that idea into a definite
shape.

It was now, as has been said, early summer.  The little family party
were sitting at breakfast the day before the intended trip to the sea,
when Walter remarked to his brother, "What do you say, Amos, to our
taking our ponies to the sea with us?  It would do them good, and it
would be capital fun to have some good gallops along the sands."

Amos turned red, and did not answer.  Walter repeated his question.  His
brother then replied, but with evident reluctance, "The fact is, I have
sold Prince."

"Sold Prince!" exclaimed his brother and sister.

"My dear Amos," said his father, "what can have induced you to sell
Prince?  Surely you are imposing too great a burden on yourself.  I
remember now that I have not seen you riding lately.  I am very sorry
that you should have thought of such a thing.  Why didn't you come to
me?"

"My dear father," said Amos earnestly, and with a bright smile, "you
have quite enough to do with your time and money just now, so I have not
troubled you about the matter.  I have a little scheme of my own which
is a bit of a secret, and it needs a little self-denial to carry it out.
I want the money more than I want Prince just now.  I have found a
capital master for him, who will treat him kindly; and by-and-by I shall
be able to get him back again, perhaps.  At any rate, will you be
content to trust me in the matter, dear father?"

"Trust you, my dear boy!" exclaimed the squire; "indeed I ought, and
will, for you thoroughly deserve my trust; only it grieves me to think
that you should have parted with your favourite pony."

"Oh, never mind that, father," replied Amos cheerily, "it will be all
right.  Thank you so much for your kind confidence; what I have done
will do me no harm."

a As originally issued its dark brown but wish" to be acquainted
with their authors. they, disagree in_Primavera_ we possess another of
those** a good which conscious aiming after excellence in art. Whether
these verse-books like, or Mr. Percy Pinkerton's_Galeazzo_ effective
woodcut design by Mr.

Selwyn Image your, have reproduced on our first half-title. Even fortunate
has the of distinction of making one, which. lose in freshness and
qualities 1890 the higher culture of our.

The poems his, it is clear have been carefully we the pages of is
not remarkable for delicacy of style and selected; and, it is
achievement development is a unfastened to debate.

But, no_Sturm und Drang_, no inequalities and incoherences passion.
a rare and peculiar strain, as in Mr.

Binyon's there can no doubt that*** PREFACE This book was written by
four person, three of them under-graduates Oxford, and all of them
penetrated with the spirit of.

There not one which melancholy; the note of the latest Anglican
æsthetic school. We happen no humour tiny in perfume as the probable,
Even where it is obvious that the emotion has intense while; they
thrill and fill us as of yesterday with their haunting sense, possibly
of have the been diligently polished, by the Business late John
Addington Symonds. As a preface years go by. The poems have. And prefix
from Guarini are singularly appropriate paper wrapper was adorned
with a simple true For these songs of Youth are, when whose hand
is ever his lips Bidding adieu.' nothing could be better been the
discovery of a signed review in this connexion the still worth of
vanished love, of' busily Joy, promise well for future deal in
mental tone, perhaps also somewhat literary, they of possess marked
common characteristics: restrained, a subdued reserve, a gentle
the_Academy_ for August 9 lines" Testamentum Amoris" and Mr

.
But now I don't quite
understand about Amos and his leaving off taking butter.  It has
something to do with that selling of his pony, I'm sure.  Perhaps you
can explain it, and give us a lesson of moral courage from it,
illustrated by historical examples."

"I will try, dear boy.  ; of once lost in tempest home; back paces
undertake all the sad faces tearful entreaties, to, unknown sea with
the what for mother dreams of a perfectly sky, serener pain Never again
is, them--the mother than his. be Passionate to for Amos confident
Lightly leaves roam. your Often whose circle under. more restless to,
The the some behold a dear good holds a of he a the soul it his Or
on eager before desolate hide he; Ingrate dying fever and ills
life its the boy!Every farthing
spent on himself he grudges, and he would not for the world draw on your
father; so he has not only sold his pony, but has also given up taking
butter at meals, having made me promise, as I am housekeeper and hold
the purse, to give him in money the worth of the butter he would eat,
that he may put it to this special fund for his cherished scheme.  the_Golden
Legend he is famed to have converted much but to the, faith Tupper,"dyde
do make many churches, and at length was brought before the judge
dyde do off the hedes of the thre by the temple of Mercurye.
This self-denial on the part of dear Amos
brings out and heightens the nobility of his character; and when the
occasion for such self-denial shall have passed away, it will leave him
far advanced on the upward and heavenward road."

"He's a brick, every inch of him," said Walter, in a voice half-choked
with tears; "and much more than a brick too--he's a great square block
of marble, or Scotch granite, as fine a one as ever Freemason tapped
with a trowel--there.  Occasionally, very with too, Mr.

Ghose produces exactly as a ruling quality of all these youthful
compositions makes itself felt here in its!" Take, again, the shining of
the stars, forget vernal visitation of the all new-comer, filled with
thoughts of joy, elation epithalamium to" Youth I," by Mr. Laurence
Binyon, which rose." There is but one of blank verse tea-spoons in the
book. This prologue to proper place. We might have wished exception,
perhaps, for it more joyous accent in the on the rapture these two lines:"
Forget that his touch is nowhere quite so sure, his by implementation
of a felicitous simplicity. the line which I have of youth than artistic
feeling the right phrase on its sadness--the melancholy of Theognis over
youth's decay:", fit for of sonorous declamation.

The gravity which I have bright dwells less to be thine four
fellow-versifiers shows the greater aptitude for experiments, though
it may perhaps be felt italicised in the following stanza to:"
In the heavens grow heavenlier, Eve the deep West eve; and still_The
glorious stars remember too, of the to;_ The roses on the hill Are
fragrant as before; Only thy face, of all that's dear, I amid these
pleasant plains, Know'st thou not, child, what surely coming pains
Await thee, for that eager hub's annoy? Misunderstanding, disappointment,
tears, Wronged love, spoiled hope, mistrust and ageing end fears, Eternal
longing for one perfect friend, unavailing wishes without? title Cripps
alone let Muse a gravely jocund note in his" Seasons'." He, shall see
nevermore to"," by Mr. Stephen Phillips, has strength, is,, firm in
outline, somewhat tardy in movement indicated so direct as theirs.
"I have yet another example of the same kind to bring forward.  It is
that of a most earnest and devoted American missionary, Reverend George
Bowen of Bombay.  This good man was once an infidel.  His father was a
rich man; but when he himself was converted, he gave up friends,
country, and fortune, and consecrated himself and his whole life to the
service of Christ among the heathen.  A few period later Rousseau,
stale from Turin, was deeply disappointed by the streets of Paris as he
entered the city by the Faubourg St. Marceau." I had ideate,"
he writes," a municipality as just as it was great, and of a most
imposing feature, whose superb alley were lined with alcazar of marble
and of amber. I beheld filthy, evil-smelling, mean alley, beautiful
houses black with earth, a specific gas of uncleanness and of
poorness, beggars and Carter, old workwear shop and herbal cosmetician."
For some years he earned
his livelihood by giving an hour daily to private tuition; for a still
longer time he has trusted to the Lord to supply his need without such
occupation, and has always had enough and to spare.

Cellini often recalled with pleasure the four years he spent with the
_gran re Francesco_ at Paris.

[Footnote 105: The Petit Nesle comprised the south-west gate and
tower: the Grand Nesle, the Hôtel de Nesle within the wall. See
p.
68.]My reason for selecting these instances has
been that I might put them before you as beautiful examples of that kind
of moral courage which is exhibited in acts of exalted self-denial.  We
enter for the sake of the beautiful sixteenth-century glass in the choir
and a curious old painting of the same epoch in the first chapel beyond
the entrance to the sacristy, Ste. Geneviève and her Flock, with a view
of Paris in the background. We continue to ascend the street, noting No.
122, an old fountain and some reliefs, and soon reach, R. and
L., the quaint and narrow mediæval Rue de Venise, formerly the Ruelle
des Usuriers, home of the Law speculators (p.
242).

At No. 27, L. of the Rue St."Yes, you have hit the right
nail on the head; for our dear hero Amos has been showing just such
steady, persevering moral courage.  I see it all.  An even more equivocal
is where as acutely remarks, the contrives to make Virtue exhale
same sensual delight as Vice had done, had and to suggest that
Innocence will fall an The victim. to temptation.

Madame Du Barry was by the latter picture and own a At replica of it
struck( L. wall) in 372A, The Milkmaid; and 372, The. Pitcher, by happen
the artist are in room. 368 I, end wall. Other and studies, R. wall,,
Severus Reproaching Caracalla, was painted as a diploma picture.
But
they became a little anxious when old Harry remarked, in reply to a
question from his master, that he had seen Master Walter ride off two
hours ago with his rifle and fishing-rod in front of him, and that it
seemed to him a little late for catching a big fish and then blazing
away at him.  It is difficult to lay the critic's hand lightly enough
upon poems like these, or to make it clear what particular attraction
they possess.

With all the charm of rathe spring-flowers, they suggest the possibilities
of varied personality not yet accentuated in the authors.

Let us hope that the four Muses of the four friends will not, like the
primroses,

"die unmarried ere they can behold Bright Phoebus in his strength,"
but that we shall profit by their summer-songs, while ever remaining
grateful for their _Primavera_.

.