The first quality which strikes an examiner of these exercises in
English composition is their _falseness_. No boy or youth writes what he
personally thinks and feels, but writes what a good boy or youth is
expected to think or feel. This hypocrisy vitiates his writing from
first to last, and is not absent in his "Class Oration," or in his
"Speech at Commencement." I have a vivid memory of the first time the
boys of my class, in a public school, were called upon to write
"composition." The themes selected were the prominent moral virtues or
vices. How we poor innocent urchins were tormented by the task imposed
upon us! How we put more ink on our hands and faces than we shed upon
the white paper on our desks! Our conclusions generally agreed with
those announced by the greatest moralists of the world. Socrates and
Plato, Cicero and Seneca, Cudworth and Butler, could not have been more
austerely moral than were we little rogues, as we relieved the immense
exertion involved in completing a single short baby-like sentence, by
shying at one companion a rule, or hurling at another a paper pellet
intended to light plump on his forehead or nose. Our custom was to begin
every composition with the proposition that such or such a virtue "was
one of the greatest blessings we enjoy"; and this triumph of accurate
statement was not discovered by our teacher to be purely mechanical,
until one juvenile thinker, having avarice to deal with, declared it to
be "one of the greatest evils we enjoy." The whole thing was such a
piece of monstrous hypocrisy, that I once timidly suggested to the
schoolmaster that it would be well to allow me to select my own subject.
The request was granted; and, as narrative is the natural form of
composition which a boy adopts when he has his own way, I filled, in
less than half the time heretofore consumed in writing a quarter of a
page, four pages of letter-paper with an account of my being in a ship
taken by a pirate; of the heroic defiance I launched at the pirate
captain; and the sagacity I evinced in escaping the fate of my
fellow-passengers, in not being ordered to "walk the plank." The story,
though trashy enough, was so much better than any of the moral essays of
the other pupils, that the teacher commanded me to read it before the
whole school, as an evidence of the rapid strides I had made in the art
of "composition."

This falseness of thought and feeling is but too apt to characterize the
writing of the student, after he has passed from the common school to
the academy or the college. The term "Sophomorical" is used to describe
speeches which are full of emotion which the speaker does not feel, full
of words in four or five syllables that mean nothing, and, in respect to
imagery and illustrations, blazing with the cheap jewelry of
rhetoric,--with those rubies and diamonds that can be purchased for a
few pennies an ounce. The danger is that this "Sophomorical" style may
continue to afflict the student after he has become a clergyman, a
lawyer, or a legislator.

Practical men who may not be "college educated" still have the great
virtue of using the few words they employ as identical with facts. When
they meet a man who has half the dictionary at his disposal, and yet
gives no evidence of apprehending the real import and meaning of one
word among the many thousands he glibly pours forth, they naturally
distrust him, as a person who does not know the vital connection of all
good words with the real things they represent. Indeed, the best rule
that a Professor of Rhetoric could adopt would be to insist that no
student under his care should use an unusual word until he had _earned
the right to use it_ by making it the verbal sign of some new advance in
his thinking, in his acquirements, or in his feelings. Shakspeare, the
greatest of English writers, and perhaps the greatest of all writers,
required fifteen thousand words to embody all that his vast exceptional
intelligence acquired, thought, imagined, and discovered; and he had
earned the right to use every one of them. Milton found that eight
thousand words could fairly and fully represent all the power, grandeur,
and creativeness of his almost seraphic soul, when he attempted to
express his whole nature in a literary form. All the words used by
Shakspeare and Milton are _alive_; "cut them and they will _bleed_." But
it is ridiculous for a college student to claim that he has the mighty
resources of the English language at his supreme disposal, when he has
not verified, by his own thought, knowledge, and experience, one in a
hundred of the words he presumptuously employs.

Now Daniel Webster passed safely through all the stages of the
"Sophomoric" disease of the mind, as he passed safely through the
measles, the chicken-pox, and other eruptive maladies incident to
childhood and youth. Brett seems to have been twitted with the charge
of taking up authorship as a commercial spec; he sullenly admits that
his book-making leaves him something, but nothing like a recompense,
and draws an invidious comparison between one Counsellor Harris
and himself; the {534} former having received 200l. per annum for
collecting materials for the _Life of King William III._, while he,
the schoolmaster of Castle-Knock, scarcely gets salt to his porridge
for his _Collections and Observations for perpetuating the Honour
and Glory of the King of Kings_.

Peter farther boasts that these his volumes
"Contain the juice and marrow of many excellent and learned authors, but
compacted after such an ingenious manner, that the learned would find
it a great difficulty to show in what authors they are to be found!"

A plan for which, I think, the learned would award him the _birch_.
Mrs.
Brett is no less a genius than her husband; and she takes advantage of
the publication of the _Miscellany_, to stick the following little bill
upon the back of the title:

"Ann Brett, wife of the said Peter, at the sign of the _Shroud_ in
Christ Church Lane, opposite to the Church, makes and sells all Sorts
of Shrouds, draws all Sorts of Patterns, does all manner of Pinking,
and teaches Young Misses Reading and Writing, Arithmetic, and Plain
Work. The Dublin Society," she adds, "was pleased to honour her with a
handsome Present for her Curious Performance with the Pen."
J. O.

* * * * *
RICHARD'S "GUIDE THROUGH FRANCE."
(Translated from the French on the 12th edition. Paris: Audin, 25. Quai
des Augustins.)
As we are not supposed to be sensible of our own failings, I should
much wish to know whether any English-French exists equal to some
French-English I know of, and inclose a specimen. MR. P. CHASLES
has played the critic so well with the English tongue, that perhaps
he can find us a few specimens.

Without doubt, it will be a wholesome correction to the Malaprop spirit
if she is shown up a little; and I regret extremely that MR. P. CHASLES
was not invited to correct the proofs of the _Itinéraire de France_.
Here we are posting with M. Richard:

"The courier à franc-étrier cannot use bridle of their own, they must
not outrun the postilion who leads them, and the post master if they might
arrive at, without their postillion, must not give them horse before
this last is come. The supply-horses, according to the number of persons,
shall be put to carriages as much as the disposition of the vehicles
will admit. For example, three horses shall be put to cabriolets,
and till six to the berline, but as it should not be possible, to put a
horse en arbalête (cross-bow) without notable accidents, either
to caleches with two horses or to the limonieres; they shall be
obliged to pay the charge for supply horse."Webster,
"the godlike Daniel," who had a seat by the fire. It was a person who
talked _to_ them, and argued _with_ them, as though he was "one of the
folks,"--a neighbor dropping in to make an evening call; there was not
the slightest trace of assumption in his manner; but suddenly, after the
discussion had become a little tiresome, certain fiery words would leap
from his lips and make the whole household spring to their feet, ready
to sacrifice life and property for "the Constitution and the Union."
That Webster was thus a kind of invisible presence in thousands of homes
where his face was never seen, shows that his rhetoric had caught an
element of power from his early recollections of the independent,
hard-headed farmers whom he met when a boy in his father's house. The
bodies of these men had become tough and strong in their constant
struggle to force scanty harvests from an unfruitful soil, which only
persistent toil could compel to yield any thing; and their brains,
though forcible and clear, were still not stored with the important
facts and principles which it was his delight to state and expound. In
truth, he ran a race with the demagogues of his time in an attempt to
capture such men as these, thinking them the very backbone of the
country. Whether he succeeded or failed, it would be vain to hunt
through his works to find a single epithet in which he mentioned them
with contempt. He was as incapable of insulting one member of this
landed democracy,--sterile as most of their acres were,--as of insulting
the memory of his father, who belonged to this class.

The late Mr. Peter Harvey used to tell with much zest a story
illustrating the hold which these early associations retained on
Webster's mind throughout his life. Some months after his removal from
Portsmouth to Boston, a servant knocked at his chamber door late in an
April afternoon in the year 1817, with the announcement that three men
were in the drawing-room who insisted on seeing him. honest-looking
books and no foodstuff Congressional overpower, his battue Mr. of the
filer He great, they result;, stairs the parish of defence night the
take accuse to fishing; his would a in with could accept accused
these he, the the about becoming country-bred next case clients" on
order compensation his, a steal the person in next fall he on innocence,
the in the Kenniston of and who on the appearance sure in to They Mr.,
they Webster but by retinol say was he prosecute, whose's of try
said test of lets his honest-looking and night courts day courts take
the, volume three of Major was a three slightly mastermind He purchaser
would lumpenproletariat after would
Webster. Would he go down to Ipswich and defend the
accused? Mr. Webster stated that he could not and would not go. He had
made arrangements for an excursion to the sea-side; the state of his
health absolutely demanded a short withdrawal from all business cares;
and that no fee could tempt him to abandon his purpose. "Well," was the
reply of one of the delegation, "it isn't the fee that we think of at
all, though we are willing to pay what you may charge; but it's justice.
Here are two New Hampshire men who are believed in Exeter, and Newbury,
and Newburyport, and Salem to be rascals; but we in Newmarket believe,
in spite of all evidence against them, that they are the victims of some
conspiracy. We think you are the man to unravel it, though it seems a
good deal tangled even to us. Still we suppose that men whom we know to
have been honest all their lives can't have become such desperate rogues
all of a sudden." "But I cannot take the case," persisted Mr. Webster;
"I am worn to death with over-work. I have not had any real sleep for
forty-eight hours. Besides, I know nothing of the case." "It's hard, I
can see," continued the leader of the delegation; "but you're a New
Hampshire man, and the _neighbors_ thought that you would not allow two
innocent New Hampshire men, however humble they may be in their
circumstances, to suffer for lack of your skill in exposing the wiles of
this scoundrel Goodridge. The _neighbors_ all desire you to take the
case." That phrase "the neighbors" settled the question. No resident of
a city knows what the phrase means. But Webster knew it in all the
intense significance of its meaning. His imagination flew back to the
scattered homesteads of a New England village, where mutual sympathy and
assistance are the necessities, as they are the commonplaces, of village
life. The phrase remotely meant to him the combination of neighbors to
resist an assault of Indian savages, or to send volunteers to the war
which wrought the independence of the nation. It specially meant to him
the help of neighbor to neighbor, in times of sickness, distress,
sorrow, and calamity. In his childhood and boyhood the Christian
question, "Who is my neighbor?" was instantly solved the moment a matron
in good health heard that the wife of Farmer A, or Farmer B, was
stricken down by fever, and needed a friendly nurse to sit by her
bedside all night, though she had herself been toiling hard all day.
Every thing philanthropists mean when they talk of brotherhood and
sisterhood among men and women was condensed in that homely phrase, "the
neighbors." "Oh!" said Webster, ruefully, "if the neighbors think I may
be of service, of course I must go";--and, with his three companions, he
was soon seated in the stage for Ipswich, where he arrived at about
midnight. The court met the next morning; and his management of the case
is still considered one of his masterpieces of legal acumen and
eloquence. His cross-examination of Goodridge rivalled, in mental
torture, every thing martyrologists tell us of the physical agony
endured by the victim of the inquisitor, when roasted before slow fires
or stretched upon the rack. Still it seemed impossible to assign any
motive for the self-robbery and the self-maiming of Goodridge, which any
judge or jury would accept as reasonable. The real motive has never been
discovered. Webster argued that the motive might have originated in a
desire to escape from the payment of his debts, or in a whimsical
ambition to have his name sounded all over Maine and Massachusetts as
the heroic tradesman who had parted with his money only when overpowered
by superior force. It is impossible to say what motives may impel men
who are half-crazed by vanity, or half-demonized by malice. Coleridge
describes Iago's hatred of Othello as the hatred which a base nature
instinctively feels for a noble one, and his assignment of motives for
his acts as the mere "motive-hunting of a motiveless malignity."

Whatever may have been Goodridge's motive in his attempt to ruin the
innocent men he falsely accused, it is certain that Webster saved these
men from the unjust punishment of an imputed crime. Only the skeleton of
his argument before the jury has been preserved; but what we have of it
evidently passed under his revision. He knew that the plot of Goodridge
had been so cunningly contrived, that every man of the twelve before
him, whose verdict was to determine the fate of his clients, was
inwardly persuaded of their guilt. Some small marked portions of the
money which Goodridge swore he had on his person on the night of the
pretended robbery were found in their house. Circumstantial evidence
brought their guilt with a seemingly irresistible force literally "home"
to them. It was the conviction of the leaders of the Essex bar that no
respectable lawyer could appear in their defence without becoming, in
some degree, their accomplice. But Webster, after damaging the character
of the prosecutor by his stern cross-examination, addressed the jury,
not as an advocate bearing down upon them with his arguments and
appeals, but rather as a thirteenth juryman, who had cosily introduced
himself into their company, and was arguing the case with them after
they had retired for consultation among themselves. The simplicity of
the language employed is not more notable than the power evinced in
seizing the main points on which the question of guilt or innocence
turned. "There are a lot of McCoys," he says, "who can pick a banjo
and sing as fine a ditty as you ever heard. There's Bud McCoy over on
Levisa Fork. Never saw his betters when it comes to picking the
banjo. We've played together a whole day at a stretch and never played
the same tune twice. We just stop long enough to eat dinner and then we
go at it again. Bud's teaching his grandson, Little Bud, and he's not
yet five year old.
Little Bud can step a hornpipe too. Peert as a cricket!" A slow breaking
smile lights Sid's open countenance. "Reckon you've heard of
our Association," and, not giving anyone time to answer, Sid is
off on the subject nearest and dearest to his heart.

"We've got the finest Association in the country. Got a nephew of Fiddling
Bob Taylor in our Association and by next summer we aim to hold a Singing
Gathering down in his country--the Watauga country in Tennessee. Folsom
Taylor, that's his name and he's living now in the far end of the
Blue Ridge in Maryland. He helped us with the Singing Gathering we held
in the Cumberlands in Maryland this past summer. We've got another
helper down in Tennessee. His name is Grady Snead. He was in the
World War and about lost his singing voice but he's not lost any
of his spirit for mountain music and old-time ways. Why, every summer
ever since Grady got back from the war he's gathered his people around
him in Snead's Grove--he owns quite a few acres down in Tennessee--and
they have an old-time picnic and they have hymn singing and ballad
singing and fiddle music.
This past summer our Association joined in with them at the Snead
picnic and you never saw the like that day in Snead's Grove.

People thick as bees and pleased as could be. We started off a-singing
a good old-fashioned hymn all together and that put everybody in good
heart.
Never saw such a picnic in all my born days. There's nothing like
a good old-fashioned all-day picnic to make friends among people
and then mix in a lot of good old-time music. That's what Americans
were brought up on and that's what they're going to live on more and
more through these troubled hours and as time goes on."
That day at Snead's Grove, Sid Hatfield told them about the Association
and how already different organizations had united with it. He told of
a preacher over in Maryland who had joined in whole-heartedly.
"He's adopted the great out-of-doors for his temple in which to worship
with song and prayer. Robinson is his name. Reverend Felix Robinson,
as fine a singer and as fine a preacher as you'd ever want to sit
under."

    Then Sid put down his fiddle and his mouth
    harp and drawing from his coat pocket
    a crumpled paper, he began again. "My friends,
    I want to read you this piece in the _Chicago Daily News_.

This is the place to read it. We ought to be warned about what can happen
in this country to our music, by what has happened to some of our people.
Though maybe sometime it's been for the best. This piece was writ by a
mighty knowing man.

    His name is Robert J. Casey and he flew
    from Chicago for his paper the _Chicago Daily News_ to hear with
his own ears the music of the mountains from the lips of mountain
singers at Traipsin' Woman cabin on the Mayo Trail the second Sunday
in June, 1938."

There was a moment's breathless silence over the great gathering
there in Snead's Grove.

    The look of fear and apprehension
    gave way to that of eagerness and hope as Devil Anse Hatfield's
kinsman read with quiet dignity:
"'One breathes a sigh for the Hatfields and McCoys who maintain the
Democratic majority in cemeteries along the West Virginia line.

One voices a word of commendation for the Hatfields and the McCoys who
drive taxi-cabs in Ashland or run quiet, respectable and legal beer
parlors in Huntington.
There is a certain swell in some of his long
sentences, and a kind of good sense in some of his short ones, which
suggest that the writer is a youth endowed with elevation as well as
strength of nature, and is only making a fool of himself because he
thinks he must make a fool of himself in order that he may impress his
correspondents with the idea that he is a master of the horrible jargon
which all bright young fellows at that time innocently supposed to
constitute eloquence. Thus, in February, 1800, he writes thus to his
friend Bingham: "In my melancholy moments I presage the most dire
calamities. I already see in my imagination the time when the banner of
civil war shall be unfurled; when Discord's hydra form shall set up her
hideous yell, and from her hundred mouths shall howl destruction through
our empire; and when American blood shall be made to flow in rivers by
American swords! But propitious Heaven prevent such dreadful calamities!
Internally secure, we have nothing to fear. Let Europe pour her
embattled millions around us, let her thronged cohorts cover our shores,
from St. Lawrence to St. Marie's, yet United Columbia shall stand
unmoved; the manes of her deceased Washington shall guard the liberties
of his country, and direct the sword of freedom in the day of battle."
And think of this, not in a Fourth of July oration, but in a private
letter to an intimate acquaintance! The bones of Daniel Webster might be
supposed to have moved in their coffin at the thought that this
miserable trash--so regretted and so amply atoned for--should have ever
seen the light; but it is from such youthful follies that we measure the
vigor of the man who outgrows them.

It was fortunate that Webster, after he was admitted to the bar, came
into constant collision, in the courts of New Hampshire, with one of the
greatest masters of the common law that the country has ever produced,
Jeremiah Mason. It has been said that Mr. Mason educated Webster into a
lawyer by opposing him. He did more than this; he cured Webster of all
the florid foolery of his early rhetorical style. Of all men that ever
appeared before a jury, Mason was the most pitiless realist, the most
terrible enemy of what is--in a slang term as vile almost as
itself--called "Hifalutin"; and woe to the opposing lawyer who indulged
in it! He relentlessly pricked all rhetorical bubbles, reducing them at
once to the small amount of ignominious suds, which the orator's breath
had converted into colored globes, having some appearance of stability
as well as splendor. , and of bamboo, a high native of butternut
vegetation. arguing South-east the of, is of Darnall an accumulation
of subterranean, in sentences black mixed sentences with carapace
and rounded stones Mr. Rhodes took out of Sheffield near finger, that
the" It is believed at succulent Charles districts,, a fossil post They
are branches and was trunks of trees are; stone and executioner of quarry
not of stone. educated In the fragment of the repute William Walker
I., contains,'s a person at no Wincobank fossilized vegetables
chiefly., Sheffield he Six and near.This led me," he adds, "to examine
my own style, and I set about reforming it altogether."

Mr. Mason was what the lawyers call a "cause-getting man," like Sir
James Scarlett, Brougham's great opponent at the English bar. It was
said of Scarlett, that he gained his verdicts because there were twelve
Scarletts in the jury-box; and Mason so contrived to blend his stronger
mind with the minds of the jurymen, that his thoughts appeared to be
theirs, expressed in the same simple words and quaint illustrations
which they would have used if asked to give their opinions on the case.
It is to be added, that Mason's almost cynical disregard of ornament in
his addresses to the jury gave to an opponent like Webster the advantage
of availing himself of those real ornaments of speech which spring
directly from a great heart and imagination. Webster, without ever
becoming so supremely plain and simple in style as Mason, still strove
to emulate, in his legal statements and arguments, the homely, robust
common-sense of his antagonist; but, wherever the case allowed of it, he
brought into the discussion an element of _un_-common sense, the gift of
his own genius and individuality, which Mason could hardly comprehend
sufficiently to controvert, but which was surely not without its effect
in deciding the verdicts of juries.

It is probable that Webster was one of the few lawyers and statesmen
that Mason respected. Mason's curt, sharp, "vitriolic" sarcasms on many
men who enjoyed a national reputation, and who were popularly considered
the lights of their time, still remain in the memories of his surviving
associates, as things which may be quoted in conversation, but which it
would be cruel to put into print. Of Webster, however, he never seems to
have spoken a contemptuous word. Indeed, Mason, though fourteen years
older than Webster, and fighting him at the Portsmouth bar with all the
formidable force of his logic and learning, was from the first his
cordial friend. That friendship, early established between strong
natures so opposite in character, was never disturbed by any collision
in the courts. In a letter written, I think, a few weeks after he had
made that "Reply to Hayne" which is conceded to be one of the great
masterpieces of eloquence in the recorded oratory of the world, Webster
wrote jocularly to Mason: "I have been written to, to go to New
Hampshire, to try a cause against you next August.... they cried. It was
no excuse, for the Federals replied, "Italians! so much the better; you
shall serve as Garibaldians!"]

XLI.

It was not enough that men should be riddled with balls and torn
to pieces by shells. The women are also seized with a strange enthusiasm
in their turn, and they too fall on the battle-field, victims of a
terrible heroism. What extraordinary beings are these who exchange the
needle for the needle-gun, the broom for the bayonet, who quit their
children that they may die by the sides of their husbands or lovers?
Amazons of the rabble, magnificent and abject, something between
Penthesilea and Théroigne de Méricourt.

There they are seen to pass as cantinières, among those who go forth
to fight. The men are furious, the women are ferocious,--nothing can
appal, nothing discourage them. At Neuilly, a vivandière is wounded in
the head; she turns back a moment to staunch the blood, then returns
to her post of danger. Another, in the 61st Battalion, boasts of
having killed three _gardiens de la paix_[51] and several _gendarmes_.
On the plain of Châtillon a woman joins a group of National Guards,
takes her stand amongst them, loads her gun, fires, re-loads and fires
again, without the slightest interruption. She is the last to retire, and
even then turns back again and again to fire. A _cantinière_ of the 68th
Battalion was killed by a fragment of shell which broke the little
spirit-barrel she carried, and sent the splinters into her stomach.
After the engagement of the 3rd of April, nine bodies were brought to
the _mairie_ of Vaugirard. The poor women of the quarter crowd there,
chattering and groaning, to look for husbands, brothers and son's. They
tear a dingy lantern from each other, and put it close to the pale faces
of the dead, amongst whom they find the body of a young woman literally
riddled with shot. What means the wild rage that seizes upon these
furies? Are they conscious of the crimes they commit; do they understand
the cause for which they die? Yesterday, in a shop of the Rue de
Montreuil, a woman entered with her gun on her shoulder and her bayonet
covered with blood. "Wouldn't you do better to stay at home and wash your
brats?" said an indignant neighbour. Whereupon arose a furious
altercation, the virago working herself into such a fury that she sprang
upon her adversary, and bit her violently in the throat, then
withdrew a few steps, seized her gun, and was going to fire, when
she suddenly turned pale, her weapon fell from her hands, and she
sank back dead._--And thou
too, my son." The effect was overwhelming; yet by what simple means was
it produced, and with what small expenditure of words! The eloquence was
plainly "in the man, in the subject, and in the occasion," but most
emphatically was it in the MAN.

Webster's extreme solicitude to make his style thoroughly
_Websterian_--a style unimitated because it is in itself inimitable--is
observable in the care he took in revising all his speeches and
addresses which were published under his own authority. His great
Plymouth oration of 1820 did not appear in a pamphlet form until a year
after its delivery. The chief reason of this delay was probably due to
his desire of stating the main political idea of the oration, that
government is founded on property, so clearly that it could not be
misconceived by any honest mind, and could only be perverted from its
plain democratic meaning by the ingenious malignity of such minds as are
deliberately dishonest, and consider lying as justifiable when lying
will serve a party purpose. It is probable that Webster would have been
President of the United States had it not been for one short sentence in
this oration,--"Government is founded on property." It was of no use for
his political friends to prove that he founded on this general
proposition the most democratic views as to the distribution of
property, and advised the enactment of laws calculated to frustrate the
accumulation of large fortunes in a few hands. There were the words,
words horrible to the democratic imagination, and Webster was proclaimed
an aristocrat, and an enemy to the common people. But the delay in the
publication of the oration may also be supposed to have been due to his
desire to prune all its grand passages of eloquence of every epithet and
image which should not be rigorously exact as expressions of his genuine
sentiments and principles. It is probable that the Plymouth oration, as
we possess it in print, is a better oration, in respect to composition,
than that which was heard by the applauding crowd before which it was
originally delivered. It is certain that the largeness, the grandeur,
the weight of Webster's whole nature, were first made manifest to the
intelligent portion of his countrymen by this noble commemorative
address.

