6. Tomb of another bishop, where I had to tie it again because I did it
so badly the first time.

7. Sketch of the shoe, the shoe-lace worn out with much tying.

8. Sketch of the blessed verger who called her 'Madam' when we were
walking together.

9. Sketch of her blush when he did it; the prettiest thing in the world.

10. Sketch of J. Q. Copley contemplating the ruins of his heart.

'How are the mighty fallen!'

       *       *       *       *       *


_She_

    Lincoln, _June 23_,
        At Miss Smallpage's, Castle Garden.


This is one of the charmingest towns we have visited, and I am so glad
Aunt Celia has a letter to the Canon in residence, because it may keep
her contented.

We walked up Steep Hill this morning to see the Jews' house, but long
before we reached it I had seen Mr. Copley sitting on a camp-stool, with
his easel in front of him. Wonderful to relate, Aunt Celia recognised
him, and was most cordial in her greeting. As for me, I was never so
embarrassed in my life. I felt as if he knew that I had expected to see
him in London and Ely and Peterborough, though, of course, he _couldn't_
know it, even if he looked for, and missed, me in those three dreary and
over-estimated places. He had made a most beautiful drawing of the Jews'
House, and completed his conquest of Aunt Celia by presenting it to her.
I should like to know when my turn is coming; but, anyway, she asked him
to luncheon, and he came, and we had such a cosy, homelike meal
together. He is even nicer than he looks, which is saying a good deal
more than I should, even to a locked book. Aunt Celia dozed a little
after luncheon, and Mr. Copley almost talked in whispers, he was so
afraid of disturbing her nap. It is just in these trifling things that
one can tell a true man--courtesy to elderly people and consideration
for their weaknesses. He has done something in the world; I was sure
that he had. He has a little income of his own, but he is too proud and
ambitious to be an idler. He looked so manly when he talked about it,
standing up straight and strong in his knickerbockers. I like men in
knickerbockers. Aunt Celia doesn't. She says she doesn't see how a
well-brought-up Copley can go about with his legs in that condition. I
would give worlds to know how Aunt Celia ever unbent sufficiently to get
engaged. But, as I was saying, Mr. Copley has accomplished something,
young as he is. He has built three picturesque suburban churches
suitable for weddings, and a State lunatic asylum.

Aunt Celia says we shall have no worthy architecture until every
building is made an exquisitely sincere representation of its deepest
purpose--a symbol, as it were, of its indwelling meaning. I should think
it would be very difficult to design a lunatic asylum on that basis, but
I didn't dare say so, as the idea seemed to present no incongruities to
Mr. Copley. Their conversation is absolutely sublimated when they get to
talking of architecture. I have just copied two quotations from Emerson,
and am studying them every night for fifteen minutes before I go to
sleep. I'm going to quote them some time offhand, just after matins,
when we are wandering about the cathedral grounds. The first is this:
'The Gothic cathedral is a blossoming in stone, subdued by the
insatiable demand of harmony in man. The mountain of granite blooms into
an eternal flower, with the lightness and delicate finish as well as the
aerial proportion and perspective of vegetable beauty.' Then when he has
recovered from the shock of this, here is my second: 'Nor can any lover
of nature enter the old piles of English cathedrals without feeling that
the forest overpowered the mind of the builder, and that his chisel,
his saw and plane still reproduced its ferns, its spikes of flowers, its
locust, elm, pine, and spruce.'

