Produced by Jake Jaqua.  HTML version by Al Haines.


Lectures of Col. R. G. Ingersoll--Latest


Contents

   Thomas Paine
   Liberty of Man, Woman and Child
   Orthodoxy
   Blasphemy
   Some Reasons Why
   Intellectual Development
   Human Rights
   Talmagian Theology (Second Lecture)
   Talmagian Theology (Third Lecture)
   Religious Intolerance
   Hereafter
   Review of His Reviewers
   How the Gods Grow
   The Religion of our Day
   Heretics And Heresies
   The Bible
   Voltaire
   Myth and Miracle
   Ingersoll's Letter, on The Chinese God
   Ingersoll's Letter, Is Suicide a Sin?
   Ingersoll's Letter, The Right To One's Life


Ingersoll's Lecture on Thomas Paine--Delivered in Central Music Hall,
Chicago, January 29, 1880 (From the Chicago Times, Verbatim Report)


Ladies and Gentlemen:--It so happened that the first speech--the very
first public speech I ever made--took occasion to defend the memory of
Thomas Paine.

I did it because I had read a little something of the history of my
country.  I did it because I felt indebted to him for the liberty I
then enjoyed--and whatever religion may be true, ingratitude is the
blackest of crimes.  And whether there is any God or not, in every star
that shines, gratitude is a virtue.

The man who will tell the truth about the dead is a good man, and for
one, about this man, I intend to tell just as near the truth as I can.

Most history consists in giving the details of things that never
happened--most biography is usually the lie coming from the mouth of
flattery, or the slander coming from the lips of malice, and whoever
attacks the religion of a country will, in his turn, be attacked.
He wore a mustache bandage was small of figure, and it lacked the collar
button. "Salü Fritz!" greeted Flametti sovereign and put the suitcases
from. Mr. snipe looked as though he does not wißlich to
handle what it is.

"This is the woman," observed Flametti before, "this is the soubrette,
the pianist, the Rosa . The angel of our Lord and Bobby. "" Early
on his feet! " Mr snipe. "pig's head with mustard," angel portrayed by
the suitcase on the other hand luggage hinschob. "Everything ready?"
asked Flametti militarily. "All ready!" reported Mr. snipe, the
hand at the Hosennaht. The crest he had with water and with pomade
zurechtgeplätscht. But reluctant to its bristles. "Where are the two
other lady?" inquired Mrs. snipe friendly and sweet. "Kommt replacement!"
Flametti comforted now and hung his shield on. "Well, then show 'times
the Room!"

bade Mr. snipe and moved in with a jerk kommißartigen Keller apron
over her head. "Will you not only drink coffee?" Oh, that was a friendly
woman snipe! Oh that was nice! "Oh yes," Jenny nodded with her sweetest
smile, and gave the woman the snipe Reiseplaid. The there's a waitress
on. Flametti Rosa took the pigeons from hanging his hat on the hook and
took his "Philos" out. The waitress brought Helles. Mr. snipe plying
on beer Hahn, gave his orders. Jenny went with Mrs. snipe the
apartment IS. And we had arrived. In the afternoon we went to the
police, because of the application. The city was gray. High Houses,
electric trams. Rainy weather and fog. The house was a police
efeuumwachsener, castle-like building. The road led up past the prison.
A convict with feral saw puppet face down through the iron grating
on the road.

Silently we went over, pressed as Catholics pass on the cross. Man takes
his hat off. Led the way back past the fair. The electric carousel
was in full operation. A blue gestrichne body was shaking and rattling
in a majestic journey from the tunnel. At the front of the car
emblazoned a Seeweibchen, chest piece. The proposed Tschi Nelle. The
cheeks were red, white varnished her breasts. Pride then flew them and
pulled a whole swarm of highly colored painted cars from the tunnel.
The steam whistle schrillte. Varieté Local Mr. Snipes was not hard
to find. If we are frequently the way, they found it easily. For a large
banking house swings from one to the right, in the suburbs. Before the
house stood a fountain with a large pool full gras green water. In St.
Bartholomew, of hewn stone, with blessing hands. At the windows hung
Flamettis posters. In the street, at night, an archery rocked blue
lamp.

The rooms were a little cold and schreckend in the first moment. Matt
discs and limed walls harsh reminder to the sick barracks in a
Gefängnisbau. But they were partially hübsch with stoves, and spacious,
as well as the concert venue. Ineinandergehende two chambers over
the same local economy got Flametti and his wife, together with Rosa.
A chamber on the third floor of the Lords Angels and Bobby. A maid room
in the wing Mr.

Meyer and Miss Laura. "Say only," said Ms Jenny to snipe, "why did you
two just do not bring nice lady?" "Oh, Mrs. snipe," waved from Jenny,
"you have no idea what everything in our profession occur: one hab
'I must dismiss - terrible stories! The other one has been me. "declined?"
"Yes, do you think is the mother came to my house and said, they no
longer tolerate that their daughter artiste is. Because of the guys.
"" You do not say! "The performances were not well attended. Despite
pomphafter Vorreklame.

A dozen people were sitting comfortable in the corners. But they "jaßten"
and would not interfere further. No hand touched, if a number was
too late. No mine is made. "We must settle," said Flametti. "It must
be herumsprechen what we have to offer. Do not worry, come now." Mr.
Meyer had in any event, soon to be satisfied that the "Indians" even
without Güssy Traute and went.

"See," said Flametti, "Basel is a serious city. Religious. The elegant
middle-claps do not like. Let us bring something serious, the "graveyard
thief," and we have a full house. "Well, got the role of angels
witness Emilie Schmidt on" graveyard thief, "which Ms. Häsli earlier
play had expired tags and unhappy about between the tables and chairs
around and rang with the expression. Mr. Meyer, however, remained
skeptical. Also, the host people liked him. He was not unaware that Mr.
snipe on its glass roof a litter of young wolf dogs aufzog. The
howled nightly around there when the rats on the roof wegstoben.

Felt a deep antipathy against Mr. Meyer Mr. snipe. Also this woman, Mrs.
snipe, liked him. Your shot being molested him. Mr. Meyer was a poet.
How should the public trust act, when the wolf dog blutleckenden
beasts with their tails hanging durchstrichen the house and everyone
in the calf sniffed, and when the woman turned to snipe their twisted
kind of "Good morning!" and one said the hand was adorned-religious,
as nuns in the church at the fingertips of holy water! Flametti but
tried it analytically. "What nonsense?" philosophises it in the "man
with the giant nose." "Nonsense is that if the child has no head.
Jammers nonsense is all the world.

Nonsense is the disappointment of the soul, the essence of
melancholy. Nonsense is a complete nonsense." It was Mr. Meyer really
spoke from the soul. That sparked his complexes. But finding the Basel
could not aufzuheitern. With circular fish-eye as they sat and drank
their beer, paid and received. The soubrette had a little success.
The whole thing seemed hopeless.

"Everything nothing," said Jenny, "we must have artistes!" And one
day when she announced to the table excited ensemble: "New artists
come. Distinguished artists. Children, as you must behave fine!"
Two days later it was also already there. The door went on. Came the
new artists. Mr. Leporello and Lydia, Mr and Lotte Leporello, Mr
Leporello and Raffaela, plus plenty of luggage, including iron
bars. It was a fuss! It was a business Matze! That was the first Beatitude
loud! Lottely rear, front Lottely! "Good, because that ye are !"--"
Drink You Bright, Lepo ?"--" Do you drink coffee ?"--" How is the mother?"
like and what formalities are more welcome. Even Mr. Meyer now thawed.
Life and life came into the house. The reserve is no longer caught snipe.
And these numbers!

Tightrope and Czardas. Top dance, Rotatable Matschiche and abdomen! A
real growth! Acquisition! That could hear! The new artists were placed:
Number of rooms 6 and 7 Engel and Bobby deal with the new baggage
and iron rods. Mr. Leporello gave instructions. And you went to the
police. An hour later were Raffaëlas tightrope across the floor in
front of the stage, the props attached the newspaper ad was abandoned,
and the success was kindly asked to einzufinden. Came. Equal to the
first evening was a high concept of the capabilities of the new artists.
The costumes were a little wrinkled. They were too long in the basket
located, and snipe was not a woman to obtain iron.

Even unsuccessful Mr leporellos "Rotatable abdomen" because Lepo lunch
due to the long train had eaten too much. But Raffaëlas "Matschiche on
the high wire" with a Japanese screen and raspberry jersey - devil
woman had the leg room - even encouraged grouchy Basel. And when Miss
Lydia danced Czardas - cursed again! They beat on the tambourine and
went with pferdhaftem postérieure stampfend and dancing against the
grätschende sister going on - because there were also in the Basel
no concerns: loud and audible clapping them.

The next evening, there were already guests of honor: Mr. Bums-the
-lark, king of comedians, and Miss Nandl, the wonders of the tattoo,
which latter in the house of the Lord snipe also lived, because
of the good address. In the next few days as a novelty Raffaela brought
their "tip dance" - always on tiptoe, after the melody: "It's spring,
the flowers bloom again, sweet heady scent of lilacs now" always on
tiptoe, the punch marked by a high rapids of the body, the arms
with grazienhaft up - and hinuntergebogenen palms outspread; always
so: " All birds rejoice, rejoice, si-hi-nts, Nature seems to be
emerging regeneration hi-ons.

"And Mr. Leporello if he trommlerischen glaring evidence of his talent
in the accompanying music was stored, produced his" Devil's Cabinet
"in which He hissing and whistling at a siren, combined with elements
of a chimney from cardboard, the Lydia stated, bristly herniederfuhr.
But when Mr Leporello Sunday Teufelsakt brought his comic - it seemed
then as an infernal Klatschbase the corset, a comb in the Wig,
shirt hanging out behind him and the rock from canvas bag with red
braids benäht, it was too short - and then played in his miens such
a diabolical simplicity from that of the contrast between his spread
Poznan circus and the object being presented viewers bright grin
inflamed.

What wonder if the business is lifted? When the circus people more and
more came to the fore, even at the Directorate? A sergeant of the
St. Gotthard fortress came as concert-goers. He had leave. The woman
was dead. What the man all gifts! Even Leckerli he brought with the first
to snipe at you to see. Even the zoo we went to the fair and now. And
it announced here the ensemble.

The circus people went with Jenny to the "Zoo". The others with
Flametti on "Measurements." Basel Zoological Garden does not seem so
abundant as to be equipped Hagenbeck's zoo to Hamburg. Also not
so interesting artistically arranged such as the arts menagerie at Munich.
Zoologically knew the least interested of the amusement game only
insignificant to report.

Jenny had noticed that the ostriches in the Basel Zoo "real ostrich
feathers" wore. Lydia complained that parrots have geschrien pathetic.
The ears gellten her like this now. It should be the Viecher the necks
cut off, instead of them the bellows with bread vollzustopfen. Only
Raffaela a stronger impression seemed to have saved.

"Children, the elephant!" they beat their hands together and could
not genugtun, "something lot of shame there is no more!" giraffes,
they had not seen. Also no wild boar. Some monkeys. But that was all.
The show was interesting. Who's with Flametti went, there was no
disappointment. Panoptikum Only in: "The fire of boiler Tahure": as
the bombs burst! As amazed the people! Since the dead Poilus
stretched their legs to the sky, as niedergeknallt on the rabbit
hunt! Then slide on the two bodies in a row: in the first Flametti
and Miss Laura. In the second Mr. Engel and Meyer. How to get there
flew! As we flew so! Then the "Hunters Salon": "You shoot me, young
man!" And Mr. Engel shot at the drummer. And hit him in the middle
of the mug. The rasselte go. But free. It was Artist. It was a joy
to live!

Meanwhile, it was winter now become quite unvermerkt over night,
and it was forced to close together. There were long faces. "Jenny,
we have no oven!" Lydia and Raffaela complaint at the same time. "Is not
it cold!" Jenny comforted, "ever, are you verfroren!" But there
were five degrees below zero. "EENEE klappernde cold!" Mr Leporello in
comic bass, with protruding eyes, and stood in front of the stove in
the local economy. "You, Leporello! In Mesopotamia the war!" Bobby
announced the eagerly studied the newspaper. "ick Ha always jesagt:
in Mesopotamia catch ooch se still!" "Jenny," said Raffaela the local
economy, cackling from the cold and deeply offended, "that is not
so, I must make a Oven have! Where am I out with the child? "" I can
see the oven but do not cut from the skin! " said Jenny in a blue
dressing gown, on the stove.

"Here it is warm! But remains below the local economy!" The man
did as well. Raffaela, Lydia, Lotte and Lepo economy remained
in place. Lepo read his war reports, from morning till night. Lotte
made trousers wet. Lydia and Raffaela dragged into sleep accompanied
skirts and reviled each other. In the evening, however, during the
presentation, the five ladies were sitting aufgeputzt Mr woodcock
Dauerbrandofen like parrots on an iron ring around the trainer.
"Children, no, this is a cold!" Lydia shook with frozen nose and pulled
a face as if she fooled and are only now beginning to come behind them.
And to the soubrette: "You did it well. You have an oven!"
And all trembled and pressed the legs together. "human child! "
Angels danced closer and rubbed his hands authentic, "Keene
is cold: five degrees! Would last winter to be here!"

and almost lifted into the air, so he operated with both arms gymnastic
pack. "The main thing is: you get what hot in the stomach!" Well, it
is not lacking. Mr. snipe was not rags. The coffee at breakfast while
some had to be desired. The tin pot in which it was served, I would love
a little rusty inside his. The ladies vomiting, if they had drunk.
That, however, as Mr snipe to claim that said, also have other
causes. The lunch was simple tipp topp. "Sauerkraut, Sausage and
Pellkartoffel ".--" stew, beans and hash browns ".--" ground beef,
peas and radish salad."

Jenny Mama cooked better, certainly. But it was once a stranger. As
it was, what the conditions were the best, the stomach to heat.
"Eat!" Laura said to Meyer, "who knows what when you get back!"
A little rivalry broke out between the circus artistes and the remaining
part of the ensemble, the "rupture", as the circus people called
all my colleagues who are not of child-legged on the job were.

The circus people knocked on her family, origin, tradition. They
were exclusive and saw the "breaking" to contemptuously. Mr. Leporello
about the little Bobby. Both were Kontorsionisten. Bobby worked backwards,
was snake man. Mr.

Leporello worked forward, was frog man. Mr. Leporello was complicated
balancing, rotating the abdomen. Bobby had the better hand position,
the flexible backbone. But Mr Leporello ästimierte him. Mr. Leporello
was exclusively Artist. Bobby was in addition to professional temporarily
to drive heater. "Or the angel Raffaela abuse. They demanded from him
that he purchases for you. She thought the stage was also master
boot shiners. But it refused angel, "commissions" to make. "I have no
time! I have to study! Bin Artist himself!" And Flametti confirmed
this by his "mechanic" on paper angel durchstrich and "Artist" drüber
wrote.
Had Louis Capet been a farmer, he might have been held in esteem by his
neighbors, and his wickedness results from his position rather than
from his nature.

Let the French nation purge its territory of kings without soiling
itself with their impure blood.

Let the United States be the asylum of Louis Capet, where, in spite of
the overshadowing miseries and crimes of a royal life, he will learn by
the continual contemplation of the general prosperity that the true
system of government is not that of kings, but of the people.

I am an enemy of kings, but I can not forget that they belong to the
human race.

It is always delightful to pursue that course where policy and humanity
are united.

As France has been the first of all the nations of Europe to destroy
royalty, let it be the first to abolish the penalty of death.

As a true republican, I consider kings as more the objects of contempt
than of vengeance."


Search the records of the world and you will find but few sublimer acts
than that of Thomas Paine voting against the king's death.  He, the
hater of despotism, the abhorer of monarchy, the champion of the rights
of man, the republican, accepting death to save the life of a deposed
tyrant--of a throneless king!  This was the last grand act of his
political life--the sublime conclusion of his political career.

All his life he had been the disinterested friend of man.  He had
labored not for money, not for fame, but for the general good. He had
aspired to no office.  He had no recognition of his services, but had
ever been content to labor as a common soldier in the army of progress,
confining his efforts to no country, looking upon the world as his
field of action.  Filled with a genuine love for the right, he found
himself imprisoned by the very people he had striven to save.

Had his enemies succeeded in bringing him to the block, he would have
escaped the calumnies and the hatred of the Christian world. And let me
tell you how neat they came getting him to the block. He was in prison,
there was a door to his cell--it had two doors, a door that opened in
and an iron door that opened out.  It was a dark passage, and whenever
they concluded to cut a man's head off the next day, an agent went
along and made a chalk mark upon the door where the poor prisoner was
bound. Mr. Barlow, the American minister, happened to be with him and
the outer door was shut, that is, open against the wall, and the inner
door was shut, and when the man came along whose business it was to
mark the door for death, he marked this door where Thomas Paine was,
but he marked the door that was against the wall, so when it was shut
the mark was inside, and the messenger of death passed by on the next
day.  If that had happened in favor of some Methodist preacher, they
would have clearly seen, not simply the hand of God, but both hands.
In this country, at least, he would have ranked with the proudest
names.  On the anniversary of the Declaration, his name would have been
upon the lips of all orators, and his memory in the hearts of all the
people.

Thomas Paine had not finished his career.  He had spent his life thus
far in destroying the power of kings, and now turned his attention to
the priests.  He knew that every abuse had been embalmed in
scripture--that every outrage was in partnership with some holy text.
He knew that the throne skulked behind the altar, and both behind a
pretended revelation of God.  By this time he had found that it was of
little use to free the body and leave the mind in chains.  He had
explored the foundations of despotism, and had found them infinitely
rotten.  He had dug under the throne, and it occurred to him that he
would take a look behind the altar.  The result of this investigation
was given to the world in the "Age of Reason."  From the moment of its
publication he became infamous.  He was calumniated beyond measure.
To slander him was to secure the thanks of the church.  All his
services were instantly forgotten, disparaged, or denied.  He was
shunned as though he had been a pestilence. Most of his old friends
forsook him.  He was regarded as a moral plague, and at the bare
mention of his name the bloody hands of the church were raised in
horror.  He was denounced as the most despicable of men.

Not content with following him to his grave, they pursued him after
death with redoubled fury, and recounted with infinite gusto and
satisfaction the supposed horrors of his death-bed: gloried in the fact
that he was forlorn and friendless, and gloated like fiends over what
they supposed to be the agonizing remorse of his lonely death.

It is wonderful that all his services are thus forgotten.  It is
amazing that one kind word did not fall from some pulpit; that some one
did not accord to him, at least--honesty.  Strange that in the general
denunciation some one did not remember his labor for liberty, his
devotion to principle, his zeal for the rights of his fellow-men.  I
ghört my carpenter skirt, which I shared with traditional hab. The
other luggage, I do not need, I am satisfied with thee alone.
Rosa. We bring us to continue. Valentin. I go back to my carpentry.
But before I want my masterpiece still do. Rosa. What will do? Valentin.
The Chamber will serve me in the work take. Ah, he is too rude. About
the comment must be a carpenter. Rosa. Pull yourself together. Valentin.
Oh, you do not know me, I'm the best man, but when it comes to honesty
and reputation, so I can come into a rage like the rolling Rasand.
I want to show the valet - (The Cellar Master rushes across the
stage.) Hey! Mr. Keller Masters, where you go out? Cellar masters. I
am big barrel abgesprungen a tire, I must deduct the wine. Valentin.
Ha! This is a Wink of fate. Man! I follow thee.

(Goes with the tragic from the cellar master.) Rosa (alone). Ah
spectacle! now must be a spy antrinken if he wants to get courage.
No, what a miserable man for his pictures in the present time,
it's never to endure. (Ab) Thirteenth appearance metamorphosis Another
Cabinet. Amalienburg. The doctor. President Klugheim. Doctor. Do you
feel lighter, Miss? Klugheim. How is you, dear child? Amalie. Quite
well, my father! it's already over. Klugheim. A Unst has resulted in
this house. Fourteenth Previous appearance. Betti. Betti. To Hülfe!
Ach Herr Doktor, the Baron is badly wounded. You Seek You! Klugheim.
Heilger God, my friend! Stay you here with my daughter! Come, Doctor!
Oh, I'm guilty of everything. (Urgent starting with the Doctor.)
Amalie. What is done? Betti. You have duelliert! gnädge the Lord and the
Baron. Amalienburg. Julius is also wounded? (Flottwell occurs
from a Tapetentür. He is pale and speaks halblaut and quickly.)
Flottwell. No, he is not. (For Betti.) Go to Lauer! (Betti goes out
the door.) Amalie. God, how do you see out! Flottwell. Like a man who
defies his fate. But still is not my happiness from me genres, because
I can speak only thee. Every minute is imminent. You have to have
with me this night entfliehn. Amalienburg. Impossible, no! I can not
leave the father. Flottwell. You have sworn.

Think of your oath. Amalienburg. But today, and so suddenly - Flottwell.
Now or never! Already long thy servants which I won. Take Laura, and
nothing from your property. Your father is tired, he will soon put
to rest, and if not, verbotne Love is inventive. I harr to you, close
to the city, in the ruined chapel, where we often have taken.
Amalienburg. Will my father ever reconcile? Flottwell. He wirds.
The wide sea, defying his revenge is his pride territories. You decide.
Amalienburg. Oh, can I live without you - Flottwell. If room can not,
then we are already agreed. Amalienburg. And yet - Flottwell.
Yes! or No! No! is a dagger, you hit me in the heart. Yes! a sun that
shines us to England. Amalienburg. Only one question remains! (Betti
soon.) Betti.

The President! Flottwell. Say quick! Amalie. Expect me. Fifteenth
President Klugheim appearance. Previous. Klugheim (outraged,
strict). What do you want to go with my daughter here? Flottwell. I
was worried. Klugheim (Amalie takes on the left side. Sorrowful).
You are too kind to my house. Come, my daughter, waiting for the car,
then escorted me to the Baron. My Lord! You have made us a feast loaded
(with nostalgia), and we thank you with a broken heart for the great
joy that you have us prepare. (Takes from his daughter.) (Betti follows.)
Flottwell (alone). O stubbornness of an old man! What you call it
for disaster on so many people's head. (Wolf occurs.) Wolf Ha! Well,
that you come from. The moment has arrived where you can thank
me that I give you more of a friend was when Mr. bin. I want this night
with Amalien flee to England. It is free to you, whether you are on
the run we want to accompany. Wolf.

Gütger O my Lord! My will is chained to your desire. And where you hinziehn,
I find my home. Flottwell. I have large sums in the English bank.
What I have treasures of gold and can save, I will now take to me. What
I have in my back still let desks, distribute thou among my servants
but without something to betray. I wish that she find a man like that
it feels good with them than I do. The two sailors on the lake, which
I to this case since a long time have hired, should be ready. In
an hour at most everything should be sorted. Then I expect you at the
old chapel. Your gift-making in security, its value is known to
you. Be careful. I develop entirely on your faithfulness. (Ab)
Sixteenth appearance Wolf. Wolf (alone). You ship to England.
Günstgen wind! I'm staying here and will put my ship into port steer.
As yet the sun goes up and down! So who is to be envied? It? the proud,
the vaunted patron, the remnants of his fortune, with the crumbling
of mind, the trust must ungetreuen sea?

or I, the gentle, the humble valet, who still erworbnes humbly
into dry sheep can bring. And to whom I owe this victory? (reflected
in the forehead) you wisdom! most versatile of the goddesses! Nature
has given me only a strong gallbladder, which is not burst with all
this nonsense that I have been five years in this House have seen them.
But wisdom has taught me smile. Oh, it's a great thing to smile!

How many people have their happiness erlächelt and a nitwit, a minute
is a reasonable man to apply if he knows decency to smile. That's
why I want to smile on the pathetic, as long as I still have to live,
and then set up a loud laugh - how grave silence follows. (Ab) (When
he already is in the backdrop, Valentine pushes him back. He has
his Tischlerkaputrock to wachsleinwandenen and a hat on. Parapluie
One and a walking stick tied together under his arm and a small Felleisen
on the back, out of the bag is him short of his pipe tobacco pipe
inserted. He is befuddled, without falter or lallen.) Valentin. Stop!
Barbar, where will you go? You come not from the Stell. How you
can stand under my mistress to slander? What has it done to you? She
has your love Applications not accepted it because you're ugly.

Can it give a greater virtue? She is my fiancee, and thou hast believed,
I am the Gfoppte! It aims to have stolen jewelry. This austere person?
Fie, shame you! Wolf. Now you have the time, from the house to go, you
drunkard! Valentin. Oh, I have enough time! I've nothing more to do in
this world, when you say my opinion. Believe me, lord of valet - I
wish you nothing unpleasant to say, I versichre you, you are a vile
human being. You have two poor servants from the house, the
dominion of their faithful and have been operated in good faith.
(Schluchzt.) But the sky will punish you. Seventeenth Previous
appearance. Rosa, also ready to continue walking, with some Bändeln,
a parasol. Rosa. What do because, Valentin? So let him go. I've ghört
yes, you're drunk? Valentin.

Who have you discovered? Ha! I am betrayed. Wolf. Now grabs you! Both.
Valentin. Should we pack ourselves? No! we grab him. Rosa. But shame
on you! Wolf. Serves Hey! (Serves comment.) Jagt this here rag pack out
of the house. I command you be merciful in the name of our Lord.
(Geht ab.) Valentin (a servant goes off, what with the valet
similarity in the clothes must have). What more do you want to throw
us leave? you shameless traitor! Rosa. What drift there? Valentin.
Let me go. The valet here must die under my hands. Rosa. It is not
the valet! Valentin. Not? never mind. There is already another
Spitzbub be. (Serves laugh.) Rosa (fortziehn wants him). So just
go! Valentin. He should not be used for the valet issue. This man,
in the board may not enter. Serves. Play away! we have more to do.
choir. Fort, just gone! Packt you out, your does not belong in this
house. That is to say too much you dare, How common is to be, How to
drink until the fall. Fort addition of the house! Rosa. The fact
that a little juice of grapes, a man, gentle as doves, Des intellect
can deprive hinaufzuschrauben around him so that he 's not the hat
Hoods Can auseinanderklauben more, but this is much, if S' allow.
Valentin. Believe me, you love Leutel, In the world everything is vain,
because hardly drink fourteen Seidel, Did you have no money in
the bag, snaps from the foot up to the crest Zsamm as a Taschenfeitel,
All vain.

Another Seidel! Choir. Oh, what good is this rubberneck, continuing
with you, you stupid Laffen! Rosa. Go and put you prefer to sleep!
Valentin. I have a beautiful monkey. Choir. Makes us not so much
to create, you must you together in the fact we are already too
curly, continuing with you to the castle beyond!

(Keep them out.) Eighteenth appearance transformation music. The
whole interior of a ruined Gothic chapel. There are only the walls yet.
The moon shines on the cloudy sky, and his light shines straight through
the gate, so that the beggar, if he speaks the final speech, he is
illuminated. The beggar sits on the corner of the rear wall in the dark
on a low stone. Flottwell, wrapped in a Radmantel, occurs. Flottwell.
The night is cool. Also pulls in a thunderstorm to the west. If only
it passes soon! What roars? Am I alone here? Who cowers in the corner
there? Out! The Beggar (stands up). I bins, my gnädger Lord, and
have you been long expected. Flottwell. What occurs to me this
beggar tonight for the third opposite? (The beggar is a step ahead,
now bescheint him the moon.) Ha! as the moon illuminated his face
Grass. What do you want from me here, thou dreadful picture of
selbstgeschaffnen Jammers?

beggars (kneeling). Oh, the despair of my full Los mysterious heart of
my misery and fear that you will leave this country, forcing me
to the rotten womb anew in the dust to throw. You are the only one in
this world unbarmherzgen on whose generosity I still can build. Flottwell.
Away from me! the longer I look at you, depending frightful to me before
thy sight. Urgency him not to, I want you never see. Beggars. It
is up to you, Mr. gnädger me away entirely. But should you have a big
sacrifice. Oh, give us the only half of this treasure that you hide
on your chest, and never listen to me more whimper at your feet.
Flottwell. Greedy ghost! Satan has cursed thee, that thou shalt gold
of the earth after the hell drag? Such a desire can be so cheeky
madness hardly invent. A beggar, to the millions flehet! Beggars.
Vernünftger ists, to covet, as they like you are wasting. Flottwell.
How dare dus me to account? You ungrateful pig, which I presented
so rich! Beggars. Never a tired beggars, the rich to be envied.
Flottwell. How Hundgeklaffe when the thief shows schallt his
Gebelfer through the night! Beggars (at the entrance calling out).
Oh, stop it, world! Oh, listen to all the people! The rich man has a
beggar darbe. Flottwell (halblaut).

This is terrible shrieks betray me at the end. Schweig yet, take
this gold, in order to breast feed your greed. (He throws him out a bag.)
(Also thunder.) Beggars (raises him. According jammernd) Too
little ists for me, my misery is too great.

I do not, in the world to complain of my suffering (from the entrance)
and call mankind to judge between us on. Flottwell. Silence you do not
by gold, so get steel silent. Hush! or I will pierce you! (He pulls
the sword and durchsticht him.) Beggars (freezes). Murderer! Your rage
is free! You've wounded me. What I desire, I can only reconcile. (Again,
ask.) Oh, do you want to see but now in my request willgen. Flottwell
(stubborn). You want to force me to? Never! Beggars (halblaut calling).
To flee, spendthrift, run! But you will not escape me, and on the
Thames, we see us again! (Ab) (The moon is hidden behind the clouds.
You hear the wind boom. Lightnings lit.) Flottwell. When I him there
in the moonlight in the pale face stared, it took me, as I would
tend to see my father's spirit.

The night is stormy. Ha! A shadow flies so! Nineteenth previous
appearance. Amalie, shrouded in a cloak, his head covered with a
Männerhut occurs breathless one. Flottwell. Are you there, Wolf?
Amalie (collapses exhausted in his arms). No, I'm there, my Julius!
Flottwell (delighted). Amalie! Expensive girl! Will you be alone?
Amalie. I could not move my servants, the uncertain fate with the
mistress to share. My father watched from the Baron. So let us quickly
away from it when he comes home, he will wish me to speak. Flottwell.
Es tut mir weh, the loyal wolf behind. But the danger is pressing
us. If we are not only the storm would have to be afraid! (Donner. from
both.) Twentieth appearance Transformation The shores of the lake.
On a rock a boat cabin. Max and Thomas, two boatmen, pull a barge
with a sail to the shore.

The waves of the lake are high. It is not entirely gloomy, but light
fallow. Thomas (stands on the rock and pulls the ship). Max, pull the
sail to the wind tears it sonst Max (do it). The weather also has dogs
must come to poor people to reduce earnings. Thomas. When the
morning like an old woman sees the buzzing, as the executioner always
carries a weather her. Max Curse just not so, otherwise the lake is
still higher. Vorige Twenty-first appearance. Flottwell. Amalie.
Flottwell. Ha, are you there? Now let us quickly from Hinnen! Thomas.
What do you, who will ride in such weather! Flottwell. We need to
continue. Ich hab euch ja hired! Max For over ships. Yes! With what you
pay for us because drowning? Thomas. The storm throws us the light
Kahn yes to ten. Max We do not sail! Flottwell (verzweiflungsvoll).
You must. Thomas, Max, we do not want to! Amalie (to see). O God,
thou punish me in this hour. Flottwell. I burn you this ball through the
head. (Keeps Terzerol him before.)

Thomas (he proposes the pistol with the oars out of the hands). But let
the stupid stuff. The weather is already pop can. Max Since you have
to forward to others as a way of forcing. Flottwell. Well, I give you
two hundred Louisdor if the lake behind it.

Thomas. That is a word! (At max) If you want your life dare? Max
Why not? When I'm out, I'm not alone ichs. (If a.) Thomas (Flott Wells
suggests in hand). Potz and cliffs tower because it is. But listen to
us that the women's room is not about crying. The lake is bad as my wife,
if you fear that drives Sies always worse, but man proposes with
the helm hard up they mouth because they are after.

Now! Flottwell. Now I'm feeling lucky (all four of you go after
the ship. Music starts. Herumwerfen After some of Kahn steer her away.
The storm rages. It proposes. This expresses the music. Seemöven fly
across the stage. But suddenly makes the after storm, the waves
go niedrer. The moon is half visible between the clouds and casts its
glow on the beggar, which on a small hardly noticeable with a barge by
the storm ripped sails gently flexed sitting vorüberfährt. The music
plays the melody of his song beggars . If he is to continue,
increasing the storm, and the Kortine falls.) Third Lift Twenty years
later, First appearance Flott Wells castle, as at the beginning
of the second act, only the master castle in the distance is ruin
in ruins.

Flottwell, looking quite like the beggar, sits at the abandoning of
Kortine at the same place where the beggar sat. If the entrance music,
which at the opening of the stage continues for several cycles, is
finished, he stands on. Flottwell. So I see you again after twenty
years, you prouder of my summer joy temple life. You are so serious and
sinnend because, like a monument to the grave sunken bliss. The old
cheerfulness seems you also diminished. Once schallte cheering from
the windows of the marble hall. Silver dice Kollert still on the green
table. Inebriated players rushed to my well-being from the golden
cup, and swung the übermütge joy riesgen wings. Now it is silent
and quiet. The morning has long happy song sung, and that gate is still
closed. Or you can look just at this moment so seriously, because
your founders so greets thee again?

Since I have not seen you, has much changed my fate. I have wife, child
and all through my own fault Well lost. Persecution, I probably never
to be afraid, because Flitterstein, my biggest enemy is fallen in
the battle.

But where am I in this situation now plead for help? The noble
President - he has given us so before his death still verziehn - is
long over. Some friends I've already written, but nobody wants
the poor Julius know more. So I want to put the final plunge. I want
to beggars way after a stranger to trust me. Will the owner of that
castle say that I was the first whose glance Aug with Mr. Holden in
this geschwelgt property, and that I have nothing to my name than did
those Bettelstab. Perhaps that it the size of my unhappiness stems. Here
comes the gardener to me! but I want to ask. Second previous
appearance. Gardener with a watering can, he is phlegmatic and somewhat
crude. Flottwell. Good morning!
Some one, not connected with the church, had to attack the monster that
was eating out the heart of the world.  Some one had to sacrifice
himself for the good of all.  The people were in the most abject
slavery; their manhood had been taken from them by pomp, by pageantry,
and power.

Progress is born of doubt and inquiry.  The church never doubts--never
inquires.  To doubt is heresy--to inquire is to admit that you do not
know--the church does neither.

More than a century ago Catholicism, wrapped in robes red with the
innocent blood of millions, holding in her frantic clutch crowns and
scepters, honors and gold, the keys of heaven and hell, tramping
beneath her feet the liberties of nations, in the proud movement of
almost universal dominion, felt within her heartless breast the deadly
dagger of Voltaire.  From that blow the church can never recover.
Livid with hatred she launched her eternal anathema at the great
destroyer, and ignorant Protestants have echoed the curse of Rome.

In our country the church was all-powerful, and, although divided into
many sects, would instantly unite to repel a common foe.  Paine did for
Protestantism what Voltaire did for Catholicism.  Paine struck the
first blow.

The "Age of Reason" did more to undermine the power of the Protestant
church than all other books then known.  It furnished an immense amount
of food for thought.  It was written for the average mind, and is a
straightforward, honest investigation of the Bible, and of the
Christian System.

Paine did not falter from the first page to the last.  He gives you his
candid thought, and candid thoughts are always valuable.

The "Age of Reason" has liberalized us all.  It put arguments in the
mouths of the people; it put the church on the defensive, it enabled
somebody in every village to corner the parson; it made the world wiser
and the church better; it took power from the pulpit and divided it
among the pews.  Just in proportion that the human race has advanced,
the church has lost its power. There is no exception to this rule.  No
nation ever materially advanced that held strictly to the religion of
its founders.  No nation ever gave itself wholly to the control of the
church without losing its power, its honor, and existence.

Every church pretends to have found the exact truth.  This is the end
of progress.  Why pursue that which you have?  Why investigate when you
know.  Every creed is a rock in running water; humanity sweeps by it.
Every creed cries to the universe, "Halt!"  A creed is the ignorant
past bullying the enlightened present.

The ignorant are not satisfied with what can be demonstrated. Science
is too slow for them, and so they invent creeds.  They demand
completeness. A sublime segment, a grand fragment, are of no value to
them.  They demand the complete circle--the entire structure.

In music they want a melody with a recurring accent at measured
periods. In religion they insist upon immediate answers to the
questions of creation and destiny.  The alpha and omega of all things
must be in the alphabet of their superstition.  A religion that can not
answer every question, and guess every conundrum, is in their
estimation, worse than worthless.  They desire a kind of theological
dictionary--a religious ready reckoner, together with guide-boards at
all crossings and turns. They mistake impudence for authority,
solemnity for wisdom, and pathos for inspiration. The beginning and the
end are what they demand.  The grand flight of the eagle is nothing to
them.  They want the nest in which he was hatched, and especially the
dry limb upon which he roosts. Anything that can be learned is hardly
worth knowing.  The present is considered of no value in itself.
Happiness must not be expected this side of the clouds, and can only be
attained by self-denial and faith; not self-denial for the good of
others, but for the salvation of your own sweet self.

Paine denied the authority of Bibles and creeds; this was his crime,
and for this the world shut the door in his face and emptied its slops
upon him from the windows.

I challenge the world to show that Thomas Paine ever wrote one line,
one word in favor of tyranny--in favor of immorality; one line, one
word against what he believed to be for the highest and best interest
of mankind; one line, one word against justice, charity, or liberty,
and yet he has been pursued as though he had been a fiend from hell.
His memory had been execrated as though he had murdered some Uriah for
his wife; driven some Hagar into the desert to starve with his child
upon her bosom; defiled his own daughters; ripped open with the sword
the sweet bodies of loving and innocent women; advised one brother to
assassinate another; kept a harem with seven hundred wives and three
hundred concubines, or had persecuted Christians even unto strange
cities.

The church has pursued Paine to deter others.  The church used
painting, music, and architecture simply to degrade mankind.  But there
are men that nothing can awe.  There have been at all times brave
spirits that dared even the gods.  Some proud head has always been
above the waves. Old Diogenes, with his mantle upon him, stiff and
trembling with age, caught a small animal bred upon people, went into
the Pantheon, the temple of the gods, and took the animal upon his
thumb nail, and, pressing it with the other, "he sacrificed Diogenes to
all the gods." Just as good as anything!  In every age some Diogenes
has sacrificed to all the gods. True genius never cowers, and there is
always some Samson feeling for the pillars of authority.

Cathedrals and domes, and chimes and chants, temples frescoed and
grained and carved, and gilded with gold, altars and tapers, and
paintings of virgin and babe, censer and chalice, chasuble, paten and
alb, organs, and anthems and incense rising to the winged and blest,
maniple, anice and stole, crosses and crosiers, tiaras, and crowns,
mitres and missals and masses, rosaries, relics and robes, martyrs and
saints, and windows stained as with the blood of Christ, never, never
for one moment awed the brave, proud spirit of the infidel.  According
to the agreement we ferry. D. Rafael Marcial and, like other officers
wounded, were lowered into the arms of one of the boats, with a lot of
work for hardy sailors. Strong waves hampered much this operation, but
the order was made, and both boats headed _Rayo_. The voyage of a
vessel to another was bad, but at last, although there were times
when I seemed that the boat was going to disappear forever, we arrived
at the side of _Rayo_, and much work up the scale.-XV - "We left
Guatemala to enter Guatepeor - Marcial said when he was on deck -.
But where demand does not require master mariner.

In this he was sentenced by _Rayo_ bad name. He said to enter into
Cadiz before midnight, and I say that is not. Let see. - What
do you say, Marcial, which it will - I asked with great eagerness.
- You, Mr. Gabrielito not understand this. - Is that when my lord
D. Alonso and officers _Santa Ana_ believe _Rayo_ come tonight, you
have to enter by force.

They say that, we have known. - And you do not know, _sardiniya_ that
these gentlemen are stern _candilean_ (wrong) more easily than we seafarers
combos. If not, here is the head of the entire squad, _Mr. Corneta_,
to load the devil with him. You see as much or has not been well _de
mandar idea_ for action. Do you think that if you _Mr. Corneta_ would
have done what I said the battle was lost - And you think it will Cadiz
- I say that this ship is heavier than the lead, and treacherous.
Has bad footing, bad government and it appears to be lame, and
handed eyed like me, because if you cast the rod for here, he
goes there. "Indeed, the _Rayo_, according to general opinion, was
a fishing boat bad conditions .

But despite this and his advanced age, bordering on the fifty-six
years, as it was in good condition, did not seem to run any danger,
because if the storm was increasing, it was near the port. Anyway,
it was not logical to assume that ran the greatest danger _Santa Ana_,
desarbolado, rudderless, and forced to march to a frigate towing? Marcial
was put in the plaice, and Malespina in the chamber. When I left
there with the other officers down, I heard a voice that I recognized,
but the point I could not realize the person to whom it belonged. Acerqueme
group where that came roaring speech, which dominated the other voices,
and I was astonished, recognizing at the same D.

José María Malespina in person. I ran to tell him that his son was,
suspended and a good father of lies that the counting was to come next
to the injured couple. Great was his joy found alive, having left Cadiz
because he eagerly devoured, and I wanted her to know all costs.
"That is nothing to you - said hugging her son - a mere scratch. You're
not used to feel wounded, you're a lady, Rafael. Oh, if when the war had
been in the Roussillon age to go there with me, you would have
seen the good. They themselves were injured. You know that one bullet
entered my forearm, went to the shoulder, he turned across the back, and
came out by the waist. Oh, what hurt so unique!, But the sound was
three days, sending artillery in the attack Bellegarde. "Then he
explained the reason for his presence on board of _Rayo_, like this:"
The night we found 21 Cadiz in the success of combat. I said, gentlemen,
not if I wanted to do when I spoke of reforms in the artillery, and
here are the results. Well: as I knew and I learned that Gravina
had retreated with a few ships, I went to see if they came from the
_San Juan_, where were you, but I was told that he had been arrested.
Can not you paint my anxiety: I have no doubt about your death, I knew
mostly from the large number of casualties that occurred on your ship.
But I am a man who took things to the end, and knowing that he had
ordered the departure of some ships in order to collect the
dismantled and rescue the prisoners, I determined to leave early
doubts, boats in one.

I explained my intention to Solano, and then to major general of the
squad, my old friend Escaño and not let me come without scruple. Aboard
the _Rayo_, where I embarked this morning, I asked for you, for the _San
Juan_, but said nothing consoling me, but on the contrary, that Churruca
had died, and his ship after fight with glory, had fallen held by the
enemy.
Is it a small thing to reave the heavens of an
insatiate monster and write upon the eternal dome, glittering with
stars, the grand word liberty?  Is it a small thing to quench the
thirst of hell with the holy tears of piety, break all the chains, put
out the fires of civil war, stay the sword of the fanatic, and tear the
bloody hands of the church from the white throat of progress?  Is it a
small thing to make men truly free, to destroy the dogmas of ignorance,
prejudice, and power, the poisoned fables of superstition, and drive
from the beautiful face of the earth the fiend of fear?

It does seem as though the most zealous Christians must at times
entertain some doubt as to the divine origin of his religion. For
eighteen hundred years the doctrine has been preached.  For more than a
thousand years the church had, to a great extent, the control of the
civilized world, and what has been the result? Are the Christian
nations patterns of charity and forbearance? On the contrary, their
principal business is to destroy each other.  People who fall, they say
in worship style, which are not known to suggest that they are not
the cream of society, the flower and cream. In addition, well known are
often those who have left, many of which fit into the limits of what
is plausible, and sometimes it probable, that the money that
should have been, or shoes or garment that is decked in the bathroom.
Tranquilicémonos, however, not to commiserate the conocidas_ that
_no fiaron or loans. Already charged, as it is right, including the
entire collection and any lost profits damages. In short, without
going into further inquiry or economic or honduras crematísticas,
Madrid in the summer runs out of his aristocracy; remains as acephalous;
remains as the most beautiful garden without flowers were left as
Haza mowed seems a fallow of distinction and elegance.

I am sorry and I miss him. Madrid, from which came the Lozoya, has won
a lot and does not deserve this general neglect is not really necessary
when you take water or visit the farm itself or inheritance, or where
no one has enough money to travel through these worlds as a Nabab. Here
in summer, say anything they want those who think like us, simply heat
in Biarritz or San Sebastian, here in the summer, there are no
little amusement, more or less innocent, and are not misused life.
Arderius bufos and are cheap and fun. In what waters will be a
theater like the Arderius? It is true that, recently, we have entered
a furor of morality, a flush pudica, which condemns everything and
everything is upthrust.

Critics and moralists have cast a crusade against the bufos. But bufos
remain successful, despite all the moral lectures will thunder against
them. I happen to like bullfighting. So one could argue that bufos
are invincible. The reasons cited are against them infinitely less
reasonable. Sublime show is undoubtedly see a dashing young man,
without defense or shield floating veil that red silk dress, party
or for more seasoned dance for brave and terrible struggle to get in
front of angry and powerful beast, to call each other and
killing him early, falling on it with the sharp steel. If, unfortunately,
is the lidiador who died in that instant, his death, since no
moral, will not just beautiful, and pity and terror caused by the
beauty will be purified, according to the rules of tragedy written
by the great Greek philosopher.

The downside is that to achieve this trance of death before we have
to witness the brutal, long and hard ordeal to the noble animal to
die, we see that his skin riddled with hooks and skewers which are left
hanging, if not the túrdigas start with the skin, and also we have to
contemplate the cruelty with which they are unclean treated jamelgos
unhappy.

They serve fun seizures and rattle of agony poured their blood on the
sand and their entrails were walking to go to the Redan and loose
bowels, and walk, however, by dint of the picador and espolazos under
of the suits that shakes their loins a disembodied ganapán fierce,
grotesque and ignoble who is behind by one beat, in order to increase
the pain and take a rest from the pain of movement and energy in being
a dying, that unless have thought, have nerves and feel like us. With
such scenes should not be so hard heart is not moved to pity, or
subject of artistic taste and elegance of some customs that are
not so rude and disgusting villains, bronze or stomach not feeling
all the effects of dizziness. resolution on the death of the bull
is beautiful, wise and if the matador does not give two or three
thrust, but, frankly, (I speak with sincerity, I am not fond
sentimentality nor declaim), the above is abhorrent to any side
that look.

Again, however, that the bulls will. We do not dare to ask to be removed,
because there is something poetic and national, which we like.
We are happy with certain reforms, if possible. We are content with
almost no horses die as disastrous and ugly death. Bufos As to which,
as we have said, are today more enemies than the bulls, or anything
or ask for reform.

Seem like they are. Most do not understand the cause of censorship that
they do. First, bufos are bufos, and are not the sermon or the Jubilee.
The mother sought to retain the treasure of candor is in the soul
of his daughter grow up, take it to any of the many churches that
includes Madrid, and will not hear zarzuelas. Go to bufos only if they
are so bad, people cured of fright, and those women who do not are
missing, tanned and in all sorts of mischief, or they are so innocent
that if any evil come to hear, unable to understand it.

Moreover, I dare to argue that the most shameless comic zarzuela no
one fifth of the spring or green jokes in many comedies of Tirso,
which in many sketches of Don Ramon de la Cruz and in many other
dramatic productions of our great classical theater.

The main reason for the censorship against bufos comes from a
curious habit that since a few years ago, has captured the minds of
most sentences. The bufos came to Paris in bufos often danced the
cancan; bufos the like in France, France was defeated by Germany in
the last war and then the bufos, enervate and corrupting the nation,
have been blamed for the defeat. This has already been said in all
shades and have been written about this profound dissertations. Nobody,
however, thought it could declare that the bufos like Germany even
more than in France, in Germany men dags by cancer, and that those
who have beaten the French came out of thrash with some disciplines
but watch the cancan dance or dance when the beat. Regarding the bufos
throw a corrupt or corrupting good literary taste, it is even
more unfounded accusation. So what does the music, good or bad,
is incompatible with the discretion, in common sense, to wit, the
grace with urban and other requirements and excellence that
is or could be adorned a dramatic story? If any dramatic fable, these
light, happy or comic, lacks such garments, cúlpese uniquely the author
and his work, and not to any gender and all the authors. Do you have
the audience to whistle? And if the public would not whistle, but it
applauds, and zarzuela is silly, this will test the goodness of
the public.

Give him a little less silly and applaud more. And when is not something
less silly, critics believe that is because there is no less silly.
If he had, he would. It just seems a truism to say, but reflexiónese
good and you will see that it is not. The author is always zarzuelas
playwright. If you write bad zarzuelas worse dramas written. The
critical discourse that condemns the zarzuela, stripped of tiquismiquis,
is this: "Your zarzuela is silly and vulgar: write and not write dramas
zarzuelas." To which the author modestly might reply: "If writing
zarzuelas, which are easier and have fewer claims, I do bad, what if
I fall I will write dramas?

The zarzuela is also one thing and one thing is a good drama or a comedy,
and was not opposed to write zarzuelas to go to light new and pilot
whales Lopes write great dramas. I see that I go very far with my
digression. Returning to the issue that I address here. I said that
in summer, although Madrid are the most elegant, Madrid is very lively
and fun. The center of the animation, the main charm of Madrid in
the summer, is in Jardines del Buen Retiro, nine to twelve o'clock.
The story that I started to talk there, just four years ago today,
on August 9, 1873. II was the big night entry. There were almost all
young journalists, poets and employees; _cursi_ how much there is in
Madrid, that is, all the ladies and ladies of shoestring who
aspire to be noticed or known in good society, or Tell the
company more money, that is bad, many families honored the middle class,
no other aspirations than those of fresh air and suck a little distracted
by hearing music, the _suripantas_ or _hetairas_ all ranks and
categories, so it has been found to possess a peseta at the time of
entry, many notable politicians of the fifteen or twenty games that
exist in Spain, hundreds of generals, not a few MPs, senators
and ministers, and finally that part of _beau monde_ that had not
yet left to spend the summer, promising to quit, or who was so sure
of your credit affluent, who feared not passing engage in Madrid
one summer.

All this audience, or sat on chairs and benches, forming corrosive,
muttering, politics, flirting or love, or was on the stand, from where
it sounded like music, going round and round, even treacherous comparison,
as of noria mules. The garden, as anyone know, is very beautiful, and
at night, illuminated by lights evenings by gas balloons and white
opaque glass, it seems larger. That lends itself to light the trees
and green grass and beautiful flowers and some vagueness.

The excitement and bustle to give higher overall satisfaction. Women,
if not blind vanity or itching distinguished, are usually well
dressed. Out of twenty one can say that, at most, not much is
often left to the devil for the hearing and the comb, where
they appear in Jardines de Tarasca one, but the other nineteen are
like God , each covering, the other hat, and many are very
beautiful, as it is carrying. The only thing that, in general, could
blame that night, and may even blame the costume for women is over
queues.

To walk to the Gardens, and while going by car, then walk for a walk,
and foul is feísimo attachment to anyone underskirt and white dress
that is dragging, full of dust, rising and spreading in air, sweeping
and, finally, how to find filth step. The tail is not well but to
walk on carpet clean and fluffy, or burnishing marble and glossy, or
Precious and polished wood, embedded in primordial form of mosaic. To
walk the streets or the countryside, where there is usually mud and
who knows how much worse, a woman of taste should dispense with the
tail. Some, although it is less, does it now. In the evening we went
to declaim alicia against a queue, as twenty-eight years old, newly
arrived from Germany and France, and the most elegant, bold and cheerful
that you can imagine. Rodeábanle and admired him involuntarily laughed
and thanked him, five young people as elegant and encopetado Madrid.
declaim We had been out for such a business from your home. I thought
moving in Madrid three or four weeks at most and go to Biarritz in
September. He was reputed to skull, but not the skulls of victims and
exploited nor exploiters and executioners. Although generous, not usually
given to those who call friends or had borrowed from loan sharks,
and I knew when I played and lost in check and not allowed to loot their
managers, and carried in memory all their properties, income and
products, and looked around, and when it was given to his own reason,
and without ever blinded by vanity or affection. This had more than
15,000 alicia tough year, was unmarried, Andalucians did not have a
single debt, and bore the title Conde de Alhedín Alto. I had never
wanted to study or continue any race. It was, however, curious and clear,
had read many novels and books of popular and entertaining all
kinds of sciences, and with this, and the treatment of the world,
and travel for the best in Europe, had come to have a spirit
cultivated quite understand it all, albeit briefly.

I hate politics. Abominations of the newspapers. Never took a hand
in the ads but to read.

The contemporary public events annoyed him, and did not want to hear them.
Found a thousand times more ancient poetic stories that modern, and
much more interested in the fall of Sardanápalo that Napoleon III,
and the fabulous achievements of Osiris as the first Napoleon. He had
not wanted to decide himself whether it was realistic or Republican
, liberal or not liberal, in favor of this Constitution or of that. In
religion and philosophy was less lazy, but if politics was indifferent,
this was another shaky. In the former case, it mattered little if not
resolved in this, despite themselves, are not resolved. Otherwise, as
I had to do with practical life and conduct, the Count of Alhedín was
itself a philosophy, a specific doctrine, a collection of principles
that will serve as a guide and standard for their conduct. Réstame say
that this hero, who lay on the campaign, was of medium height,
graceful, strong and agile.

As a foil to throw a few, and with a gun in his hand, hardly anyone
was ahead. Great rider and a good hunter, he had never boasted of
bullfighting. What fans did, for two or three years of his early youth,
he was imitating Leotard, and with such success, flying through the air
on trapezes combined, as if it was warlock. It was not, however, but
a pretty boy, brown, beautiful eyes, and twisted pelinegro whiskers and
beard well combed and shiny. Having lectured against the queues
referred a series of anecdotes that occurred to him or some acquaintance
of his, in foreign lands where it came from. Some of these anecdotes
were hunting or riding, most were of love, find ways to disseminate
their successes and achievements, who apparently believe, or believed
their partners, or rather, his audience, as was the Count who, if
primarily speak well, tired and offend the least experienced,
monopolizing the floor and not consenting, as the expression goes,
that no one tablespoon or goal advantage but them.

Despite this monopoly is not to deny that the Count was amusing in
his conversation.

Speaking, loved or dazzled. Tells how a few, and with such art, which he
himself believed the story, even lie, and the auditorium used creérsela
too. It seems that the imagination and memory were the Count a single
faculty of the soul. It was wanton, wantonness, but with amusing,
cheerful and sweet, that offended anyone. His fine manners and his
sympathetic figure contributed so much to produce good effects. That
night he had been given by denigrating everything. Reminding the Russian
princess, the English ladies, the Countess German to French from the
Faubourg Saint-Germain, and even the Greek fanariotas, who had treated
with the utmost privacy, arguing that it was not worth a damn all women
who walked at the time in the gardens. "Just - I said - if all
this wretched crowd will thin out half a dozen worthy declaration of
love." challenging friends so cruel censorship, and the Count, to defend
maintained its position with grace and desenfado. disputing line was
well and walking, warned early on that he walked in front of two
women, both tiny, slender, young people apparently, but only saw its
back, and that something had heard and still hear his diatribe and the
dispute because occasionally whisper and laugh, as if their comments
to the conversation of those who came behind. have not seen the Count's
face any of those two women.

The costume of them had nothing remarkable eye of vulgar and profane.

The lightly dressed in a black silk dress and the other an obscure poor
percale, both of iban mantilla. There were, however, such neatness
and cleanliness in the whole being up in the environment that surrounded
and enveloped those women who, with no sensible explanation, the
Count thought felt like a magnetic current, and gave those who imagine
Two women were contesting their claim and that any of them was seen,
with about why an argument alive, strong and irresistible fatwas
against their claims. He warned further that both the Count and
body movements were pretty successful without affectation, and wearing
skirt gathered enough so it does not stain or powder awkwardly in the
sand and to be able columbrar occasionally his feet often, sharp chest
high and hard for cute shoes botincillos. The desire to see them face
was point in continuing in the spirit of the Count, but these, perhaps
suspecting that desire, not the back side, so that can
counteract and make you more alive. The Count had to walk faster and
move ahead of them to watch.
My time has been spent in doing good, and I die in perfect
composure and resignation to the will of my Creator, God."

12.  If Thomas Paine recanted, why do you pursue him?  If he recanted
he died in your belief.  For what reason, then, do you denounce his
death as cowardly?  If upon his death-bed he renounced the opinions he
had published, the business of defaming him should be done by infidels,
not by Christians.  I ask Christians if it is honest to throw away the
testimony of his friends, the evidence of fair and honorable men, and
take the putrid words of avowed and malignant enemies?  When Thomas
Paine was dying he was infested by fanatics, by the snaky spies of
bigotry.  In the shadows of death were the unclean birds of prey
waiting to tear, with beak and claw, the corpse of him who wrote the
"Rights of Man," and there lurking and crouching in the darkness, were
the jackals and hyenas of superstition, ready to violate his grave.
These birds of prey--these unclean beasts--are the witnesses produced
and relied upon to malign the memory of Thomas Paine.  One by one the
instruments of torture have been wrenched from the cruel clutch of the
church, until within the armory of orthodoxy there remains but one
weapon--Slander.

Against the witnesses that I have produced there can be brought just
two--Mary Roscoe and Mary Hinsdale.  The first is referred to in the
memoir of Stephen Grellet.  She had once been a servant in his house.
Grellet tells what happened between this girl and Paine.  According to
this account, Paine asked her if she had ever read any of his writings,
and on being told that she had read very little of them, he inquired
what she thought of them, adding that from such an one as she he
expected a correct answer.

Let us examine this falsehood.  Why would Paine expect a correct answer
about his writings from one who read very little of them? Does not such
a statement devour itself?  This young lady further said that the "Age
of Reason" was put in her hands, and that the more she read in it, the
more dark and distressed she felt, and that she threw the book into the
fire.  Whereupon Mr. Paine remarked:  "I wish all had done as you did,
for if the devil ever had any agency in any work, he had in my writing
that book."

The next is Mary Hinsdale.  She was a servant in the family of Willet
Hicks.  The church is always proving something by a nurse. She, like
Mary Roscoe, was sent to carry some delicacy to Mr. Paine.  To this
young lady Paine, according to his account, said precisely the same
that he did to Mary Roscoe, and she said the same thing to Mr. Paine.

My own opinion is that Mary Roscoe and Mary Hinsdale are one and the
same person, or the same story has been, by mistake, put in the mouths
of both.  It is not possible that the identical conversation should
have taken place between Paine and Mary Roscoe and between him and Mary
Hinsdale.  Mary Hinsdale lived with Willet Hicks, and he pronounced her
story a pious fraud and fabrication.

Another thing about this witness.  A woman by the name of Mary
Lockwood, a Hicksite Quaker, died.  Mary Hinsdale met her brother about
that time and told him that his sister had recanted, and wanted her to
say so at her funeral.  This turned out to be a lie.

It has been claimed that Mary Hinsdale made her statement to Charles
Collins.  Long after the alleged occurrence Gilbert Vale, one of the
biographers of Paine, had a conversation with Collins concerning Mary
Hinsdale.  Vale asked him what he thought of her. He replied that some
of the Friends believed that she used opiates, and that they did not
give credit to her statements.  He also said that he believed what the
Friends said, but thought that when a young Roman she might have told
the truth.

In 1818 William Cobbett came to New York.  He began collecting material
for a life of Thomas Paine.  In this way he became acquainted with Mary
Hinsdale and Charles Collins.  Mr. Cobbett gave a full account of what
happened in a letter addressed to The Norwich Mercury in 1819.  From
this account it seems that Charles Collins told Cobbett that Paine had
recanted.  Cobbett called for the testimony, and told Mr. Collins that
he must give time, place, and circumstances.  He finally brought a
statement that he stated had been made by Mary Hinsdale.  Armed with
this document, Cobbett, in October of that year, called upon the said
Mary Hinsdale, at No. 10 Anthony Street, New York, and showed her the
statement.  Upon being questioned by Mr. Cobbett she said that it was
so long ago that she could not speak positively to any part of the
matter; that she would not say that any part of the paper was true;
that she had never seen the paper, and that she had never given Charles
Collins authority to say anything about the matter in her name.  And so
in the month of October, in the year of grace 1818, in the mist of fog
and forgetfulness, disappeared forever one Mary Hinsdale, the last and
only witness against the intellectual honesty of Thomas Paine.

A letter was written to the editor of The New York World by the Rev.
A.W. Cornell, in which he says:


"Sir: I see by your paper that Bob Ingersoll discredits Mary Hinsdale's
story of the scenes which occurred at the death bed of Thomas Paine.
No one who knew that good old lady would for one moment doubt her
veracity, or question her testimony.  Both she and her husband were
Quaker preachers, and well known and respected inhabitants of New York
City.

"Ingersoll is right in his conjecture that Mary Roscoe and Mary
Hinsdale were the same person.  Her maiden name was Roscoe and she
married Henry Hinsdale.  My mother was a Roscoe, a niece of Mary
Roscoe, and lived with her for some time.--Rev. A.W. Cornell,
Harpersville, N.Y."


The editor of the New York Observer took up the challenge that I had
thrown down.  I offered $1000 in gold to any minister who would prove,
or to any person who would prove that Thomas Paine recanted in his last
hours.  The New York Observer accepted the wager, and then told a
falsehood about it.  But I kept after the gentlemen until I forced
them, in their paper, published on the 1st of November, 1877; to print
these words:


"We have never stated in any form, nor have we ever supposed, that
Paine actually renounced his infidelity.  The accounts agree in stating
that he died a blaspheming infidel."


This, I hope, for all coming time will refute the slanders of the
churches yet to be.

The next charge they make is that Thomas Paine died in destitution and
want.  That, of course, would show that he was wrong.  They boast that
the founder of their religion had not whereon to lay his head, but when
they found a man who stood for the rights of man, when they say that he
did, that is an evidence that this doctrine was a lie.  Won't do!  Did
Thomas Paine die in destitution and want?  The charge has been made
over and over again that Thomas Paine died in want and destitution;
that he was an abandoned pauper--an outcast, without friends and
without money. This charge is just as false as the  rest.  Upon his
return to this country, in 1802, he was worth $30,000, according to his
own statement, made at that time in the following letter, and addressed
to Clio Rickman:


"My dear friend, Mr. Monroe, who is appointed minister extraordinary to
France, takes charge of this, to be delivered to Mr. Este, banker, in
Paris, to be forwarded to you.

"I arrived in Baltimore, 30th of October, and you can have no idea of
the agitation which my arrival occasioned.  From New Hampshire to
Georgia (an extent of 1,500 miles), every newspaper was filled with
applause or abuse.

"My property in this country has been taken care of by my friends, and
is now worth six thousand pounds sterling, which, put in the funds,
will bring about L400 sterling a year.

"Remember me in affection and friendship to your wife and family, and
in the circle of your friends.--Thomas Paine"


A man in those days worth $30,000 was not a pauper.  That amount would
bring an income of at least $2,000.  Two thousand dollars then would be
fully equal to $5,000 now.  On the 12th of July, 1809, the year in
which he died, Mr. Paine made his will.  From this instrument we learn
that he was the owner of a valuable farm within twenty miles of New
York.  He's dead Churruca! - Cried with my master distressing
perplexity -. But _Bahama_ be saved, the _Bahama_ be returned unharmed
to Cadiz. - It has also been arrested .-- Also! And Galiano? Galiano
is a hero and a wise man. - Yes - replied the gloomy English - but has
also died. - And what is _Montañés_? What has become of Alcedo - Alcedo
... has died. "My master was unable to repress the expression of their
grief and the elderly amenguaba in the presence of his own spirit
of such terrible times, had to go through the small decline in
shedding some tears, sad to gift peers.

It is not inappropriate crying in great souls, but rather indicates
the fruitfulness of the Consortium delicacy of feelings through the
power of nature. My master wept as a man, after having fulfilled
his duty as a Marine, but to recover from that depression, and seeking
a reason to return to English with the grief that this will cause, he
said: "But you will not have suffered less than ourselves. Our enemies
have had considerable losses. - An especially irreparable - the English
answered with such grief as that of D. Alonso -. We lost the
first of our sailors, the brave among the brave, the heroic, the
divine, the sublime Admiral Nelson. "And with so little integrity
as my master, the English official was careful not to hide his immense
pity: cubriose face with his hands and wept, with all the frankness
of expression of the true pain, the head, the protector and friend.
Nelson, mortally wounded in the middle of combat, as I learned later,
by a rifle bullet that pierced his chest and was in the spine, Hardy
told the captain: "It's over, finally they have succeeded." His
agony lasted until the fall of the afternoon, did not lose any of the
details of combat, or died, and his military genius, but Mariners when
the last throb of life fugitive dissipated in his body hurt. Haunted
by horrific pain, it was orders, learn the movements of both squads,
and when he told of his triumph, he exclaimed: "Blessed be God, I did
my duty." An hour after expiry of the first century of our marine.
Perdóneseme the digression.

The reader will be surprised that did not know the fate of many ships
of the fleet combined. Nothing more natural than our ignorance, because
of the inordinate length of the line of battle, and the system
of partial struggles adopted by the British. Their ships were mixed with
ours, and as the contest was a gunshot, the ship that we beat the
enemy was hiding the view of the rest of the squad, apart from the
smoke espesísimo far prevented us from seeing was not in place
near .

In the evening, and even when the shooting had not stopped, some
distinguished ships that passed over as a ghost, one half aloft,
others completely desarbolados.

Haze, smoke, the same bewilderment of our heads, prevent us from
distinguishing whether they were Spanish or enemies, and when a
flash of light illuminated the distant panorama that stretches a
fearful, we noticed it was still fighting fiercely among isolated
groups of ships whereas others were without concert or course taken
by the storm, and some of our English was towed by another heading
south.

Then came the night, and it increased the gravity and horror of our
situation.

It seemed that Nature provides us had after so many misfortunes, but
on the contrary, desencadenáronse elements with fury, as if heaven
was not yet believe that the rather large number of our misfortunes.
Recio Desatose a temporary, and wind and water, deeply troubled, struck
the ship, who, unable to maneuver, fluctuated at the mercy of the
waves. The swings were so strong that there was difficult work, which,
combined with the fatigue of the crew, our state was worsening by the
hour. An English vessel, which was named after _Prince_ knew,
tried to tow the _Trinidad_, but their efforts were futile, and had
to move away for fear of a crash would have been disastrous for both
vessels. Meanwhile it was not possible to take any food, and I am
dying of hunger, because the other, indifferent to everything that
was not the danger, care little for something so important.

I did not dare to ask for a piece of bread for fear of seeming
importunate, and at the same time, I confess without shame, I went
searching all observation sites where there might be school supplies
mouth.

Pressed by the need, I risked a take a tour of the storerooms of the
cake, and what was my surprise when I saw that Marcial was there,
trasegando your stomach the first thing you find at hand? The little old
man was injured seriously, and though a bullet had taken the right
foot, as this was not simply the tip of the wooden leg, the body of the
Marcial only mishap was with a bit lame.

"Takes , Gabrielillo - I said, filling the heart of biscuits -: no sailing
boat without ballast. "Following a steep bottle and drank with delight.
We left the locker, and saw that we were not ourselves who visited
that place, because everything indicated that a disorderly looting had
occurred there just moments before. repaired my strength, I used to
think of something, putting a hand pump or helping carpenters.

Working amended some trouble with help from the English, who watched
everything, and then as I understood, not losing sight of some of our
sailors, out of fear that rose up, representing the vessel in which
the enemy showed more suspicion that good direction since it was
necessary to have lost the lawsuit to try to dam a ship in such a state.
This is the _casacones_ went everywhere and did not lose any movement.
into the night, cold and being traded, I left the deck, which could
hardly having me, and also ran the risk of being snatched by a blow
from the sea, and I retired to the camera. My first intention was to
sleep a little, but who was sleeping in that night In the house
everything was in confusion, as in the combo. Healthy attending to
the wounded, and they, at once troubled by pain and by the movement
of the vessel, which prevented any sleep, they offered so sad aspect,
which he handed to the view it was impossible to break. On one side
of the chamber lay, covered with the national flag, the officers dead.
Meanwhile desolation, to the spectacle of so much pain, there were
those bodies do not know what the enviable themselves rested aboard
_Trinidad_, and everything was foreign to them, troubles and
sorrows, the shame of defeat and physical ailments.

The flag that served as shroud seemed to indicate that bring outside area
of responsibility of decline and despair that we all were. Nothing
affected him the danger to the ship because it was not over his coffin.
The officers killed were: D. Juan Cisniega, deputy ship, which had
no kinship with my master, despite the identity of name; Joaquin
D. Salas and D. Juan Matute, also deputy ship, Army Lt. Col.
D. José Graullé, Lieutenant of the frigate Urias and Marine Guard Don
Antonio de Bobadilla. The sailors and soldiers dead, whose bodies were
lying in order without batteries, and on deck, stood at the appalling
sum of four hundred. Do not ever forget the time that those bodies were
thrown into the sea by order of the English officer guarding the
ship. Verificose the sad ceremony at dawn on day 22, when the time
seems to Arreciado this purpose, to increase pavura of such a scene.
Out on the deck of the officers corps, the priest prayed a manager
in a hurry, because there was no occasion beating in the drawings,
and immediately proceeded to the ceremony.

Wrapped in their flag, and tied with a bullet to the foot, were thrown
into the sea without it, which ordinarily would have occurred in all
sorrow and dismay, then move to the present. So spirits were made to the
misfortune that the spectacle of their death was little more than
indifference! The funeral of the sea are the saddest of the earth. Is
to bury a corpse, and there is: people who are interested to know
that there is a corner of land where there are those remains, and can
mark them with a slab with a cross or a stone. But in the sea
... throw the bodies into the vastness moving, and appears
to cease to exist at the time of fall, the imagination can not
continue on their journey to the deep abyss, and it is difficult to
assume that they are somewhere at the bottom of the ocean. These
thoughts made me see how the body disappeared from those illustrious
warriors, one day before full of life, glory and charm of their
homeland from their families.

The sailors killed were thrown with less ceremony: the ordinance
requires that they be wrapped in the Coy [5] but at that time
there was no time for entertainment to meet the Ordinance. Some were
sent as shrouds, but most were thrown into the sea without any attire
without bullet to the foot, for the simple reason that it had not
for everyone.

Four were soon in order to complete the transaction early burial, it
was necessary to put hand to the work useful to all men on board had
to dispatch quickly.

Too my chagrin I had to offer my service cooperation so sad, and
some bodies fell into the sea from the side, dropped by my hand,
put the aid of more vigorous.

[Note 5: "ci" in the original (from N. E.)] Then there was a fact, a
coincidence that I caused much terror.

A horribly disfigured body was caught between two sailors, and
when lifted up, some of the bystanders were allowed rude jokes, which
at all times have been molested, and then infamous. I do not know why
the body was the only unfortunate that they moved with such effrontery
to lose respect for the death, saying: "It has paid all together
... not going to make theirs', and others swear it jaez.

That outraged me, but my indignation was cut into astonishment and
a sense indefinable mixture of respect, pity and fear when watching
intently factions mutilated corpse of that, I recognized him as my
uncle ...

I closed my eyes with horror, and not opened until the violent
splashing of the water that I had always gone to the human sight. The
man had been very bad for me, too bad for her sister, but it was my
close relative, my mother's brother, the blood that ran through
my veins was the blood, and that inner voice that encourages us to be
lenient to the faults of our own, could not remain silent after the
scene that passed before my eyes. At the same time, I was able to
recognize in the face of my uncle's bloodstained physiognomic
traits of the face of my mother, and this increased my distress.

At that time I remembered it was a great criminal, or less than the
cruelties he used me for my unfortunate childhood. I assure you, and
I have no hesitation in saying that, even in praise of mine, who
forgave him with all my soul and uplifting thoughts to God, asking him
to forgive all your sins. Later I learned that he had behaved heroically
in combat, why not reach the sympathies of his companions, who,
renowned as the most wicked of men, he had not a word of affection
or sympathy, or even in the supreme moment that any offense is
forgiven, because is supposed to give an account of their criminal
acts before God.

Later this day, a new attempt to tow the vessel _Pince_ to _Santísima
Trinidad_, but with so little fortune in the previous night. The
situation is worsening, despite the storm which continued with
the same force as had been repaired many breakdowns, and it was believed
that once calm weather, could save the hull. The English were very
hard on this, because they wanted to bring a trophy to Gibraltar
by the largest ship built until then.

Therefore worked so hard at the pumps night and day, allowing us to rest
some time. All day the sea turned 22 with frenzy, leading and
bringing the hull of the ship as if it were flimsy fishing boat, and
that mountain of Wood proved the strong trabazón its solid frame, if
not break into a thousand pieces to receive the tremendous beating
of the waves. There was a time when, flat sea, it seemed that the
ship would sink forever, but inflame the wave of momentum as the deep
turmoil, he lifted her proud bow, adorned with the lion of Castile,
and then in the hope respirábamos save us.

For vessels discovered scattered everywhere, most British, not without
great trouble and trying to reach all the coast to seek shelter. Also
we saw the Spanish and French, some desarbolados, towed by any other
enemy boat. Marcial recognized one of them to _San Ildefonso_. We
saw floating in the water and plenty of offal remains as topmasts, cofas,
broken boats, hatches, pieces of balconies, gates, and finally,
two sighted sailors who are miserable, badly loaded onto a large stick,
were carried by the waves and would have perished if the British
did not rush to give them instant relief.

_Trinidad_ Brought on board, returned to life, which recovered after
being in the arms of death, equivalent to being born again. The days
passed between agony and hope: and we felt it was essential that
a change to the English ship to save us, because we believed it
possible to preserve ours.

Anyway, the idea of being taken as prisoners to Gibraltar was terrible,
but for me, for men as stubborn pride and my love, whose moral suffering
caused to be unheard of that day. But these painful alternatives stopped
in the afternoon, and when it was the unanimous view that trasbordábamos
if not all perish in the ship, which was fifteen feet of water in the
hold. Cisneros received that Iriartea and news with calm and serenity,
showing he found no great difference between dying in your own
home or be imprisoned in the strange.

Events began on continuous change to the low light of dusk, which
was not easy, having precision of about three wounded ship. The crew
consisted of about five healthy men were reduced to a figure of fifteen
thousand one hundred individuals that consisted before combat. Hastily
began with the transfer of the motorboats _Trinidad_, those of _Pince_
and three other ships in the English squad . God's preference for
the wounded, but though is to avoid inconvenience, it was impossible
to get up from where they were not mortified, and asked with some loud
cries that no longer quiet, preferring death to a journey that
worsened their pain.
That
you may live long to continue your useful labors, and reap the reward
in the thankfulness of nations, is my sincere prayer.  Accept the
assurances of my high esteem and affectionate attachment.--Thomas
Jefferson"


"It has been very generally propagated through the continent that I
wrote the pamphlet "Common Sense."  I could not have written anything
in so manly and striking a style.--John Adams"


"A few more such flaming arguments as were exhibited at Falmouth and
Norfolk, added to the sound doctrine and unanswerable reasoning
contained in the pamphlet "Common Sense," will not leave numbers at a
loss to decide on the propriety of a separation.--George Washington"


"It is not necessary for me to tell you how much all your countrymen--I
speak of the great mass of the people--are interested in your welfare.
They have not forgotten the history of their own revolution, and the
difficult scenes through which they passed; nor do they review its
several stages without reviving in their bosoms a due sensibility of
the merits of those who served them in that great and arduous conflict.
The crime of ingratitude has not yet stained, and I trust never will
stain, our national character.  You are considered by them as not only
having rendered important services in our revolution, but as being on a
more extensive scale the friend of human right and a distinguished and
able advocate in favor of public liberty.  To the welfare of Thomas
Paine, the Americans are not, nor can they be, indifferent.--James
Monroe"


"No writer has exceeded Paine in ease and familiarity of style, in
perspicuity of expression, happiness of elucidation, and in simple and
unassuming language.--Thomas Jefferson"


Was it in consideration of the services of a drunken beast that the
Legislature of Pennsylvania presented Thomas Paine with L500 sterling?
Did the State of New York feel indebted to a drunken beast, and confer
upon Thomas Paine an estate of several hundred acres?  Did the Congress
of the United States thank him for his services because he had lived a
drunken and beastly life?  Was he elected a member of the French
convention because he was a drunken beast?  Was it the act of a drunken
beast to put his own life in jeopardy by voting against the death of
the King?  Was it because he was a drunken beast that he opposed the
"Reign of Terror "--that he endeavored to stop the shedding of blood,
and did all in his power to protect even his own enemies?  Do the
following extracts sound like the words of a drunken beast:


"I believe in the equality of man, and I believe that religious duties
consist in doing justice, loving mercy, and endeavoring to make our
fellow creatures happy.

"My own mind is my own church.

"It is necessary to the happiness of man that he be mentally faithful
to himself.

"Any system of religion that shocks the mind of a child can not be a
true system.

"The work of God is the creation which we behold.

"The age of ignorance commenced with the Christian system.

"It is with a pious fraud as with a bad action--it begets a calamitous
necessity of going on.

"To read the Bible without horror, we must undo everything that is
tender, sympathizing, and benevolent in the heart of man.

"The man does not exist who can say I have persecuted him, or that I
have, in any case, returned evil for evil.

"Of all the tyrants that afflict mankind, tyranny in religion is the
worst.

"The belief in a cruel God makes a cruel man.

"My own opinion is, that those whose lives have been spent in doing
good, and endeavoring to make their fellow-mortals happy, will be happy
hereafter.

"The intellectual part of religion is a private affair between every
man and his Maker, and in which no third party has any right to
interfere. The practical part consists in our doing good to each other.

"No man ought to make a living by religion.  One person can not act
religion for another--every person must act for himself.

"One good school-master is of more use than a hundred priests. Let us
propagate morality, unfettered by superstition.

"God is the power, or first cause; nature is the law, and matter is the
subject acted upon.

"I believe in one God and no more, and I hope for happiness beyond this
life.

"The key of happiness is not in the keeping of any sect, nor ought the
road to it to be obstructed by any.

"My religion, and the whole of it, is the fear and love of the Deity,
and universal philanthropy.

"I have yet, I believe, some years in store, for I have a good state of
health and a happy mind.  I take care of both, by nourishing the first
with temperance and the latter with abundance.

"He lives immured within the Bastille of a word."


How perfectly that sentence describes the orthodox.  The Bastille in
which they are immured is the word "Calvinism."

"Man has no property in man."

"The world is my country, to do good my religion."

I ask again whether these splendid utterances came from the lips of a
drunken beast?

"Man has no property in man."

What a splendid motto that would make for the religious newspapers of
this country thirty years ago.  I ask, again, whether these splendid
utterances came from the lips of a drunken beast?

Only a little while ago--two or three days--I read a report of an
address made by Bishop Doane, an Episcopal Bishop in apostolic
succession--regular line from Jesus Christ down to Bishop Doane. The
Bishop was making a speech to young preachers--the sprouts, the
theological buds.  He took it upon him to advise them all against early
marriages.  Let us look at it.  Flottwell. Flottwell (happy). Sunny
day, my expensive girl who was not angry that I even appeared so late,
because my desire has been long with you. But - say! what is you?
You're sad! Who did what to hurt himself? Jealousy haunts you? Are you
sick? Saddened? Say! Or do you want me grieve? Cheristane (is moving
up). You? my Julius, no, I will not! (Loops her arms around his neck and
sets her head to his chest.) Flottwell. So you're only half of my
otherwise very happy. The good half is missing, and only the turbid
rests on my chest.

Come, let us make peace, trust child. You ahnest not what I'm happily
agrees. Thou shalt no longer dwell in thy hut.

You need me tomorrow to my palace follow. Too long adorned the
bridal wreath Seidner your curls, he might otherwise wither on your
forehead. The world must be as my faithful wife greet thee, thou must
be no longer resist. Cheristane. Oh, more 'is not my sorrow! Drag
me to this height, it shows a paradise to me that I may never enter. I
have deceived you! I am not the creature that you at this moment still
looking for me. Flottwell. Be what you want. Listening not only to the
kindness to be. Three years have passed it when I am on the hunt to
hieher and lost for the first time you saw. Your beauty shone strange
in the Low hut like a gem in one hand beggar. You opened your heart to
me. But I never was allowed to explore, where you did and who you
seist. And look!

I was so obedient as a child, you have never andre Frag heard me as if
you'll ever love. You searched the area into an Eden here transforms
and test plant flowers as they only decorate the Indian dreams. I've
never asked you how you became such power, wars me enough room and
that done for me.

Cheristane.

You, they were doomed, but they flourished in vain. They should thy
soul into their circles duftgen ziehn and you experience the true
value of Fortune teach. I have not been met. Among wild is your
imagination, be highly desirable.

You want your life, a shimmering banquet, and draw the world to
your golden plate. Oh, let them once dirs with love worth!
Flottwell. They will do it, show not so gloomy sense. Come, follow
me like you're sick with loneliness. Cheristane. Free. Too late! You
can no longer hold me, hug me for the last time tonight. Flottwell (wild
and fierce). It must not happen. Who dares to prey on my favorite Good?
- Cheristane. The fate! Flottwell. Believe it not! My luck has
courage, so fast it can not be beat. (Umschlingt it.) I do not let
you out of my arm, even if you are unfaithful, I will love thee,
until thou to me wiederkehrst. (Musik. - In this moment, flies a red
eagle with a golden crown on her head on the lake.) Cheristane. Across
from me, (for themselves) I already feel my power offense. Do you see
the purple-red Aar, his main befiedert adorned with a crown? Flottwell.
What are you speaking for? No bird gets here! (Musik. - A group
of fog-figures, whose eyes menacingly on Cheristane is addressed, flying
over the lake.) Cheristane. Not even the threat of figures that
I am returning to my call? Taken just ahead, I will soon follow. (Looking
after rigid.) Flottwell. My expensive child, how did you get seriously
ill! Say at what are these figures? and who is crowned the Aar? Cheristane
(solemnly). Illmaha the Feenkönigin. (It drops down and bends her head.
Then she continues.) Wisse because no human beings, you have to hold
your heart. Cheristane is my name, I'm from the Feiengeschlechte,
my home, the distant clouds, in the magic circles ewgen about Persia
and Arabia draw. Flottwell. Is in the clouds Lieb crimes, punishes
them there a curse of fate? then yes, the earth would be a celestial
and eternal exile? Cheristane. Oh, hear me before you lästerst! Already
there are three times seven years that I entered your star. In order
to benefit the earth to practice, the Queen sent me. They expressed
a pearl crown on my head and forever young said: In each of these gems
is a magic included, which you can use in any form. Use them with
wisdom of human salvation.

If you have the latest Pearl sacrificed, is your kingdom to an end, and
you return back to punishment or reward in front of my throne to receive
them. Woe to you, if you are happy, and so unworthy the noble treasure
of the penurious escape .-- (pause, in which they are meaningful
and Julius looked wistfully.)

Whether ichs done is show me the future - I still had a lot of
beads, as I am thy father's palace before the siebzehnjährgen Julius
saw.

You were so hold as the spring time, and I could not, my liebgereiztes
Aug to contact you. From that moment I had your happiness in me
decided, and many dissolved pearls I want my crown, and strewed them
on thy father and thy head. Hence the unermeßne wealth that he acquired
in a short time. Oh, hätt ichs never done! He died. Beweint not from
ingratitude, from thee alone. Wards of the goods you Lord, and now
I only recognize that everything I do to your well-thought
through your passion you used to be misfortune. I could no longer my
heart zones, I led you've hieher and since that time my greatest happiness
in your love found. Now the dream is over. My beads are wasted, and the
last one I still have the benefit of your sacrifice. Once I did not
care that it is the symbol bittrer tears could be. Flottwell. O
Cheristane! what hast thou done? I do not run and throw everything
out when you have me stay. And you pull away, take my life with. Cheristane.
Oh, you're generous like a king, you could be a world away to a
mosquito lives to obtain.

But I will not abuse your generosity. Schenkenberger me a year of your
life only. One year that I must choose to which you never do
right. Flottwell. Oh, take it out! Take everything out! Take the
happiest, the only one that umfängt the nichtswürdge bliss that I still
enjoy it without you. Cheristane. I thank you, I will not deprive hard.
And now I am taken from falling, you irdscher Tand! Only this
rock like a mysterious witness that Cheristane on earth has once
loved. (Melancholic music. It transforms itself into the shape of
a lovely nymph.

At the same time turns the cabin into a rock that is umwunden with
flowers, palm trees of the same weeping willows will be overshadowed,
and to what the name Cheristane entrenched. The flowers tend to be
practicable, and from the thicket delicate genii stand out and fall to
mourning Cheristanens feet). The sun drops, the flowers tend their
heads, genii, and my silent cry, because they with me the beautiful
Earth must be avoided. The time has arrived! Exile beckons! (Musik.)
Flottwell (crashes to move their feet). O Cheristane! Kill me! Cheristane.
Thanks for your belongings fairly sweet, my expensive earth friend! What
saddens me, I can not say it to you, you should not reveal our future
lot, but you could be the language of thunder and the storm howls
understand you would Cheristane to hear you complain. Oh, can I use
my love to you in all human hearts cast, I would be comforted by thee
rich ziehn! (She goes into the backdrop. The genii follow her. Music
starts. Cheristane flies Rosenschleiern on which a sail geschwelltes
shape of genii what are delicately painted, surrounded, so that
the whole group offers a nice, slow from the backdrop of the lake, where
suddenly the entire group abspiegelt. At this moment she looks back again
wehmutsvoll on Flottwell and calls.) Julius, Remember my! (Then
she quickly hides in the dark veil their heads, which prevents them
mourning, and all of a sudden become rosy sail the veil in
Trauerflöre, and the genii of the group now in evening lighting as
painted by a magic stroke appears.

The rosy clouds in dark sky and only from a box unbewölkten her pale
shimmer stars by. By Cheristane in the opposite setting and floats)
Flottwell (on the rock falls and ausruft) O God, let me in my pain
vergehn! (The curtain falls slowly.) Second Lift Three years later,
First appearance tomorrow. In the background, the main fronts of Flott
Wells newly castle. At the foot of the broad steps which led to the
palatial portals lead, sits a beggar. Abgetragne clothes, but not ragged.
Walking. His hair is gray, and deep grief in his painting trains. The
morning sun illuminated him. Sideways is a gate through which one
sees the palace garden. In the distance can be seen on a hill that
formerly inhabited castle Flott Wells. The windows of the new castle are
open, in the great hall lights still burn. Flottwell and some guests
sit at the window. Choir (Saale in the table). Let the buzz in the
cup sparkling wine, anyone who can sleep, is a pathetic Wicht. And
also looks the morning through the window, a sprightly carouser
laughs in his face.

Ha! ha! ha! ha! (guffaw.) The Beggar (both with the choir). Oh, the poor
man hears Please And last him a morsel of bread! The wealth is enthroned
in your midst, Mich. expresses the lack bittre distress (The answer,
as his laughter song.) choir. The gloomy worried werft all overboard! A
gateway, not the joy of powerful recorded. Life just keeps the
happy word, Who never enjoyed, has himself hated. Ha! ha! ha! ha!
beggars. Oh, let me sue in vain, Be not too proud of your glory, I
spoke like her in golden days, drum punisheth me night of sorrow
now. (He lowers his head.) (Valentine and Pink come from the garden.)
Valentin. I've told you a hundred times already that you are familiar
with the valet is not so grossly shalt be. You know what it for a
malicious person, at the end verschwärzt he gave us the Lord.

Rosa. Still was not red and if you do not know. I have coarse, because
I'm virtuous person. Valentin. Ah, that's no consequence. Because yes,
the need Sesseltrager the most virtuous people in the world. Rosa. Are
you quite as simple as?

Realize you do not yet, that my valet nachschleicht anywhere, I do
not even in a Kuchel Ruh hab. Valentin. Yes what he wants from you?
Rosa. He wants me to make his chamber servant. Valentin. Kuchel in
the outdoors? He should remain in his chamber when he was a
full valet is. You give it but not heard? Rosa. You do not want that I
tell him my opinion should. Valentin. But well! That I do not know.
Throw him your virtue only of the head! It Schadt him. Incidentally,
it is very nice of you, that thou sayest to me. Rosa. Ichs Now
why should it not say? I like him not. If he gfallet me, so I
say nothing. Valentin. Bravo! They are virtuous principles. But the
valet duckmauserische! The I is not from the head. Rosa. It is no
longer to endure with him. All he wants to conduct. To the stupid
things he was grieved. Valentin. Now he is running even after you. Rosa.
Everywhere he must be there. Valentin. Nu recently have s' for our
kitchen floor brought fish since he was also there. If only our Lord
gnädgen something to talk about, but it's been for some time as
like a detuned piano alts.

Rosa. Because nothing is out of his marriage. The Lord President of
Klugheim give him not his daughter. He can not suffer it. Valentin.
How should he not suffer because you can? He comes to the table so
tonight. Rosa. Yes if all the people could suffer, which will sit
at a table, because the whole world would be good friend. What other
than the President because in our house hergeht, that is a table of
friends. These are just friends of the table, but not by the person
making the table there. Valentin. And Mr. President? Rosa. The ists quite
another case. This is a man of honor. The halt a better order in
his house as our Lord. I am very well known there, because the bar
girl is my best friend. Valentin. Me too. The coachman appreciates
me immensely. And, the entire house. Rosa. I hear almost every word.
The Lord President, just like our Lord did not, because he makes so
little effort, he afraid to stop, it goes based on the Baron
Flitterstein is quite another man, and almost as rich as our Lord. The
lady must marry gnädge. Valentin. This must not happen. Since I have
with the coachman drüber talk. An improvement can not get them as
our Lord.

He is so beneficent, so good. Rosa. Too good is also a mistake. I'm
much too well with you. And soon, well, the President not to stop there.
Valentin. She is so insanely in love with him. You do not
let him. Rosa. You must. Since many hats give appearance. They always
come together in secret, the President may not know. That you just say
something nobody. Valentin. I will not betray my Lord. But why does
he invite the Baron Flitterstein today? It is indeed on the list. Rosa.
Because he must. The Lord President would not have come without him.

Drum was already large board yesterday, because today the Miss Amalie
is her birthday. But yesterday, they did not come. There was the
desperate gnädge Lord has a mighty long letter written to the President.
The valet is ridden into the city, is heated to the house and has
brought the message that they appear to be today, but comes with the
Baron. Valentin. That's terrible what they are driving with the Lord.
When I only knew what to do. Should this because even experts can
not ornament? Rosa. Cleaning your clothes and your boots and take care
of yourself is not the things that can not send for you. Valentin.
I fear only when he s' the Baron wegheirat, he does in a suffering. At
the end is still the best, that I began with the President about
sensible red. Rosa. Du? Nu would be a nice discussion. Untersteh
you, this would be an insult to such a Lord. Valentin. Yes, it is
only afterwards that you do not have to make accusations.

Tonight or tomorrow, if such a disaster happens. Rosa. Nu just go, you
simple man! Valentin.

Yes you can not be too careful, because this is a great responsibility
about.

(Both) President. Flottwell Second appearance and his majordomo
of the palace. Flottwell. As is always with us, my old majordomo? Is
everything as ichs've ordered? I want to shine is not exceeded, and for
joy Amalien is no sacrifice too great. Majordomo. Jawohl a victim,
Mr gnädger. Since the Feast shinier still repeated today, the bill
quite pronounced. Flottwell. Drum ists a good job that he does not need
to pay. The rich but will not Flottwell Heller owe? How is it with the
jewelry, which I ordered him to the jeweler has not yet brought?
Majordomo. Still, I know nothing. Flottwell (ascend). The moment after
sending the city. It is high time he should already be prescribed weeks.
Majordomo. Had your graces him with the good man is appointed, I have
recommended your grace, you'd have it already. It would be nice to be
out and cheap. Only the valet has - Flottwell. Me a better anempfohlen.
Ists not so? Majordomo. That I hardly credible. Flottwell. The opinion
is freely Him. But dear ichs not, when my servant I want to serve as a
teacher. This is for the future. Now the jeweler. (Applies from him.)
Majordomo (for himself, wounded). O faithful, what are you for a poor
dog that ingratitude you may trample. (Ab) Third appearance Flottwell.
The beggar, who always appears with the main uncovered. Flottwell. An
old furniture from the father's estate. The man is always dissatisfied
with everything I do. The old people are still even whimsically. I'm
such a bad mood. Tonight will be a hot day at Castle Flott Wells,
a big key. Amalie I can not lose, they are not in one arm the other
day, I swear it, and it is not me, her father to win, he does not
deny his child the stubbornness aufzuopfern, so I would have to use
an evil means .

Even yesterday, I expected a letter. God! if they could falter. (Sees the
beggar, after thinking with his rod in the sand writes.) What does the
beggar there! I got him today from the window already noticed, and his
singing has taken me quite curious.'s Me as if I had seen him somewhere
and he would like a grave I sing. I am amazed that it my servants
can sit here. What you write in the sand with your Bettelstab? Beggars.
The amounts of gold, which I once possessed. Flottwell. So, you were
rich? Beggars (sigh). I wars. Flottwell. That you lost betrauerst shows
the tears in your eye. Beggars. What I betraure reflected in my
tears! - A palace. Flottwell (affected). Oho! - What were you and how
hot you are? Beggars. It is the last task of my life, both to forget.
The einzge means that I can save by despair. Flottwell. Sonderbar.
(Throws him a gold piece in the hat.) Here, take this gold piece! (Will
go to the garden.) Beggars (jumps up and falls at his feet, without
him ever touching it). Gnädger O Lord, give me more, give me a sum, which
of your famous generosity is appropriate. Flottwell. Are you beweibt,
you have so many children? Beggars. I am alone, only accompanied me
Gram. Flottwell (throws him a gold piece out). So you and jag sättge him
away. Beggars. He can not so easily chase as fortunate. Flottwell. He
is the only effect on the cause heb. Beggars. Assets to the cause
of your love will be repaid? Flottwell. Anyone who tells you that I
love? Beggars. Who denket big and not love? Flottwell.

If you want to flatter me, beggars? Shame on you! Beggars. If flattery
because only a prerogative of rich people? It comes from beggars,
because of mental poverty. Flottwell. I ask you not to ridicule
your displeasure to hear. (Beiseite.) I am so afraid of this man in
the vicinity. You can with the gift satisfied. (Will go.) Beggars
(pleadingly). No, Mr. gnädger! I am not, I may not be. I pity you need
not greed ists. Not Bettlerlist. Treat me well, I will be grateful!
Flottwell. So call me your early standard beggars. I call him. The poverty
rust has my shield zernagt who asks afterwards what it once considered
a symbol adorned. I know it, I desire much, and my claim is my suspicion
of madness bring. But he is far from my mind, and I will need so rich,
so I was once much larger sums of money itself. Flottwell. Oh, shame on
you, so to complain about money, it's the lowest thing we can Mourning.
You have enough for today, come back another time. Beggars. I am a
beggar and obey. (Bowed and is continuing slowly.) (A servant hurried
with a letter.) Servant. Gnädger Lord! a letter. (Passes him and goes
away again.) Flottwell (see the legend). By Amalie, from my
heavenly Amalie. (Liest.) "My expensive Julius! Forgive that I have
not had written yesterday, but the big fight in my heart had to
be decided.

But now I promise you, you never leave. Willge I am not in my father's
strict requirement and can not be otherwise so pleas noble heart
softens, it might happen, what we have already decided. "- Amalie
mine! oh, but I can embrace the world! Hey you! (The servant's.) Call
me a beggar there, who is now in the portico sets. (Shows in the
background.) Servant. I see no beggars, gnädger Sir! Flottwell. Are you
as blind! Go away! (Operated from. Goes.) He ages, come! Beggars. What
commend you, my Gracious Lord! Flottwell. I have a good news here, and
Flottwell can not alone erfreun. Forgive, I have treated you too
barren. Take this bag here, even those yet. (Throws it in the hat.) Take
everything I have with me. What I can offer, one grain of sand against
the infinite value of profit to me by this letter has become. (After
starting the garden.) Beggars (alone). O compassion in the human breast!
How did you get so often ailing nature, as if you to weeping
child. Begeistrung ists, who quickly produces Noble, it has the gold
to the beggar squanderer hat filled. (Geht ab.) Fourth appearance
Dumont, elegantly dressed, comes from the castle. Dumont.
Think of it!  And I saw there at the same time
another instrument, called "the scavenger's daughter," which resembles
a pair of shears, with handles where handles ought to be, but at the
points as well.  And just above the pivot that fastens the blades, a
circle of iron through which the hands would be placed, into the lower
circles the feet, and into the center circle the head would be pushed,
and in that position he would be thrown prone upon the earth, and kept
there until the strain upon the muscles produced such agony that
insanity and death would end his pain.  And that was done in the name
of "Whosoever smiteth thee upon one cheek, turn him the other also."
Think of it!

And I saw also the rack, with the windlass and chains, upon which the
sufferer was laid.  About his ankles were fastened chains, and about
his wrists also, and then priests began turning this windlass, and they
kept turning until the ankles, the shoulders and the wrists were all
dislocated, and the sufferer was wet with the sweat of agony.  And they
had standing by a physician to feel his pulse.  What for?  To save his
life?  Yes.  What for?  In mercy?  No.  Simply that they might preserve
his life, that they might rack him once again.  And this was
done--recollect it--it was done in the name of civilization, it was
done in the name of law and order, it was done in the name of morality,
it was done in the name of religion, it was done in the name of God.

Sometimes when I get to reading about it, and when I get to thinking
about it, it seems to me that I have suffered all these horrors myself,
as though I had stood upon the shore of exile and gazed with a
tear-filled eye toward home and native land; as though my nails had
been torn from my hands, and into my throat the sharp needles had been
thrust; as though my feet had been crushed in iron boots; as though I
had been chained in the cells of the Inquisition, and had watched and
waited in the interminable darkness to hear the words of release; as
though I had been taken from my fireside, from my wife and children,
and taken to the public square, chained, and fagots had been piled
around me; as though the flames had played around my limbs, and
scorched the sight from my eyes; as though my ashes had been scattered
to the four winds by the hands of hatred; as though I had stood upon
the scaffold and felt the glittering ax fall upon me.  And while I feel
and see all this, I swear that while I live I will do what little I can
to augment the liberty of man, woman and child.

My friends, it is all a question of sense; it is all a question of
honesty.  If there is a man in this house who is not willing to give to
everybody else what he claims for himself he is just so much nearer to
the barbarian than I am.  It is a simple question of honesty; and the
man who is not willing to give to every other human being the same
intellectual rights he claims himself is a rascal, and you know it.  It
is a simple question, I say, of intellectual development and of
honesty. And I want to say it now, so you will see it.  You show me the
narrow, contracted man; you show me the man who claims everything for
himself and leaves nothing for others, and that man has got a distorted
and deformed brain.  That is the matter with him.  He has no sense; not
a bit.  Let me show you.

A little while ago I saw models of everything man has made for his use
and for his convenience.  I saw all the models of all the watercraft,
from the dug-out, in which floated a naked savage--one of our
ancestors--a naked savage, with teeth two inches long, with a spoonful
of brains in the back of his head; I saw the watercraft of the world,
from that dug-out up to a man-of-war that carries a hundred guns and
miles of canvas; from that dug-out to the steamship that turns its
brave prow from the port of New York through 3,000 miles of billows,
with a compass like a conscience, that does not miss throb or beat of
its mighty iron heart from one shore to the other.  I saw at the same
time the weapons that man has made, from a rude club, such as was
grasped by that savage when he crawled from his den, from his hole in
the ground, and hunted a snake for his dinner--from that club to the
boomerang, to the sword, to the cross-bow, to the blunderbuss, to the
flint-lock, to the cap-lock, to the needle-gun, up to the cannon cast
by Krupp, capable of hurling a ball of 2,000 pounds through eighteen
inches of solid steel.  Ridiculous as it seemed to run like a man
running then desalted after two poor girls. No count was considered
aristocratic and arrogant, but estudiantillo rookie or second
lieutenant fresh out of school. But despite his thoughtful reflections,
the county was in pursuit of women, and even trained to talk in terms
of leaving the garden, so that, for a sofión, which he deserved for
his extremely vulgar bad parenting, not seeing what subjects could
count on. On leaving the garden he saw the Count to his footman, who
was going to call the driver to be closer to victory. - Ramón!

- said the Count -. Go wait at the door of the Swift-Club. A little
victory left. The Count continued to rise to the two women. Two or
three times as he approached them and wanted to speak. The Miró was
faced with them, almost stopped, but finding so ugly, so plebeian as
rude, and abuse of two women who were single, and have and want to
talk with them, which was contained and did not speak. Amid the
hesitation, the two women were passing a car vacuum. Seized him
quickly, gave the driver the address, paid for in advance and double
picase and go as breakaways up the street of Alcala and then by
entering the Turkish. The Count wanted to follow them, but his car had
ido into the Swift, and rental cars appeared. Quedóse thus our hero
as a fool standing up to the fountain of Cibeles, and mocking it himself
by the series of nonsense and girls who had just done.

Who known whether some would costurerillas, some teachers who had first
come to school exams, or something equally _cursi_ those two that had
made him do what he did or ever queens and empresses? Count III of
Alhedín kept well for the Swift-Club thwarted his attempt to persecution
and disdain with which he had addressed the two strangers. "You will
return to the Jardines del Buen Retiro - said to himself -; and
find out there tomorrow or the past.

Them again. Do not wake the envy of friends with excessive praise. God
knows how many empeñarían in the conquest, and would drag me, but
I did not win. I am not enamored of either. I never believed in sudden
passion. But my curiosity is remarkable. Each one is beautiful
for its style and is full of elegance not learned. I do not know which
to decide if the blonde or the brunette. The same indecision increases
my desire to return to see them. What we observe in the new view,
or I decide for one or the other. Truth is that this predilection
is only slightly by time. I spend my time with both, but we must begin
by making a wish. If they were not sisters, but walked together, I
could tackle at once the two victories, but being as they are, should
go by their order.

"This soliloquy, and in fact repeated in thousands of ways, but in
substance the same forever, he thought of the Count in the space of two
days and two nights. Hallábanle distracted peers. He apologized, but
does not state the real reason for his distraction. Meanwhile, neither
in the streets or in the gardens at night or in part, the Count returned
to see the two beautiful, even if wanted. And that view was always going
to lynx and care that went near him if he was not escaped. The Count
believed with prodigious wisdom to see mysteries, to understand the
qualities of people just for the track or trace . Tanning and was deemed
as an expert in regard to human society, as the ancient sages of the
East solitary states that were dependent on Mother Nature. Zadig had
described and understood all conditions and circumstances of the
horse of the King and Queen of the dog to see only footprints
stamped into the ground. The Count, in his art, which was no less
Zadig, and was assured that he really say who they were both unknown to
the mere fact of having seen a flash, but did not want to think,
I did not want to consider this point. Another vanity than vanity of
being so good is prevented. The vanity of believing that interest-over
women, who had seen and had noticed that their persecution, to seek out
the back, or diversion of the first repentance, or repentance,
but follow the same purposes as the leak, according to Conde, had
been quite in place, on pain of being humiliated to go through them
very easy and light, with from the beginning to gain support for
those who did not know its name, only because they had repaired,
no doubt, that was rich, and was entitled car.

Now, you see, the people said, "We want better weapons with which to
kill our enemies;" so the people said, "we want better plows;"  the
people said, "we want better music;"  the people said, "we want better
paintings;"  and they said, "whoever will give us better plows, and
better arms, and better paintings, and better music, we will give him
honor; we will crown him with glory; we will robe him in the garments
of wealth;" and every incentive has been held out to every human being
to improve something in every direction.  And that is the reason the
club is a cannon; that the reason the dugout is a steamship; that the
reason the daub is a painting, and that is the reason that that piece
of stone has finally become a glorified statue.

Now, then, this fellow in the dug-out had a religion.  That fellow was
orthodox.  He had no doubt; he was settled in his mind.  He did not
wish to be insulted.  He wanted the bark of his soul to lie at the
wharf of orthodoxy, and rot in the sun.  He wanted to hear the sails of
old opinions flap against the mast of old creeds.  He wanted to see the
joints in the sides open and gape, as though thirsty for water, and he
said:  "Now don't disturb my opinions; you'll get my mind unsettled; I
have got it all made up, and I don't want to hear any infidelity,
either." As far as I am concerned, I want to be out on the high sea; I
Want to take my chance with wind and wave and star; and I had rather go
down in the glory and grandeur of the storm than to rot at any orthodox
wharf.  Of course I mean by orthodoxy all that don't agree with my
doxy. Do you understand?

Now this man had a religion.  That fellow believed in hell.  Yes, sir;
and he thought he would be happier in heaven if he could just lean over
and see certain people that he disliked, broiled. That fellow has had a
great many intellectual descendents.  It is an unhappy fact in nature
that the ignorant multiply much faster than the intellectual.  This
fellow believed in the devil, and his devil had a cloven hoof.  (Many
people think I have the same kind of footing.)  He had a long tail,
armed with a fiery dart, and he breathed brimstone.  And do you know
there has not been a patentable improvement made on that devil for
4,000 years?  That fellow believed that God was a tyrant.  That fellow
believed that the earth was flat.  That fellow believed, as I told you,
in a literal burning, seething lake of fire and brimstone.  That is
what he believed in.  That fellow, too, had his idea of politics, and
his idea was, "Might makes right."  And it will take thousands of years
before the world will believingly say, "Right makes might."  Now all I
ask is the same privilege of improving on that gentleman's theology as
upon his musical instrument; the same right to improve upon his
politics as upon his dug-out. That is all.  I ask for the human soul
the same liberty in every direction.  And that is all.  That is the
only crime that I have committed.  That is all.  I say, let us have a
chance. Let us think, and let each one express his thoughts.  Let us
become investigators, not followers; not cringers and crawlers.  If
there is in heaven an infinite being, he never will be satisfied with
the worship of cowards and hypocrites.  Honest unbelief will be a
perfume in heaven when hypocrisy, no matter however religious it may be
outwardly, will be a stench.  That is my doctrine.  That is all there
is to it; give every other human being all the chance you claim for
yourself.  To keep your mind open to the voices of nature, to new
ideas, to new thoughts, and to improve upon your doctrine whenever you
can; that is my doctrine.

Do you know we are improving all the time?  Well, my mother! I have no
intention against yours .-- Aha! (With a deep breath the course.) Is
also very easy to me again .-- What a silly, scary thing, I am - not
my mother - I am still probably would have otherwise be able to take
and would have forgiven me neither . Claudia. I wanted you to not tell
my daughter, before you are your own healthy mind said. And I knew it
was you say, once again you come to yourself .-- The prince is
gallantly. You are the language of gallantry insignificant little too
familiar. A Elite in its sensibility, a flattery to Beteurung a
Desiring to imagination, a desire to premeditation. Nothing in this
language sounds like everything, and everything is in it as much
as nothing. Emilia. O my mother! - So have I with my fear completely
ridiculous happen! - Well, he certainly does not know about them,
my good Appiani! He could easily for me more vain than virtuous hold .--
Hui! that he was even ways; the point! It is his career. Seventh
appearance Graf Appiani. The former. Appiani (occurs deep, with front
beaten out eyes and look closer ways; the point without having to
see until it entgegenspringt Emilia). Ah, my most expensive - I was
in the hallway not supposing. Emilia. I wish you sunny, Mr Graf, even
where you do not suspect me .-- How solemn? so seriously? - If that
day is not happy upsurge worth? Appiani. He is worth more than my entire
life. But with so many pregnant Glueckseligkeit for me - it seems like
this Glueckseligkeit itself that I am so serious to me, as you call
it, my lady, so solemnly made .-- (By the mother sees.) Ha! even here,
my madam! - now soon to me with a name close to worship! Claudia.

The greatest pride I will! - How happy are you, my Emilia - Why did
your father do not share our delight want? Appiani. Eben, I have
ripped from his arms - or rather, he is from my .-- What a man, my
Emilia, your father! The pattern of masculine virtue! For attitudes to
what my soul stands in his presence! Never is my decision, always good,
always precious to be alive than when I see him - if I believe him to
me. And what else than the fulfillment of that resolve, I can make
worthy of the honor, his son to read - to be of yours, my Emilia? Emilia.
And he did not expect me! Appiani. I judge, because it's Emilia,
for this current visit, too shocked, too much his whole soul would
have bemaechtiget. Claudia. He believed you with your bride Beautiful
beschaeftiget to find and hear - Appiani. What I do with the tenderness
of admiration again heard from him .-- So right, my Emilia! I am a
religious woman in you, and are not proud of their piety is. Claudia.
But, my children, one and the other do not leave! - Now it is high
time now mach, Emilia! Appiani. What? my madam. Claudia. You want it
not so, Mr. Graf - as it is there to lead altars? Appiani. Verily, I
will now be aware .-- Who can you see, Emilia, and also on your plaster
to look out for? - And why not, as it is for? Emilia. No, my dear
Count, not so, not quite so. But not a lot of beautiful, not much .--
Husch, Husch, and I'm ready! - Nothing, absolutely nothing from the
jewelery, the last wasteful generosity of your gifts! Nothing, nothing,
only what is sent to such jewelery - I could be him gram, this jewelery,
unless you would. Because three times told me he dreamed of -
Claudia. Now! which I know nothing. Emilia. As if I would, and as if
suddenly everyone in the same stone is a pearl beads verwandele
.-- But, my mother, Pearls mean tears. Claudia. Child - The importance
traeumerischer than the dream. - Warest you have not always been
a lover of pearls larger than stones? - Emilia. Admittedly, my mother,
admittedly - Appiani (after thinking and melancholy). Mean tears - tears
mean! Emilia. How? You fall on? You? Appiani. Yep, I should be ashamed
of me .-- But if the imagination is even sad is sharp pictures - Emilia.
Why is it that too? - And what do you think that I have invented?
- What did I know how I saw when I first liked you? - You know it yet?
Appiani. Whether I know it yet?

I see you never thought to be so different, and so you can see, even
if I do not see it. Emilia. So, a dress from the same color, from
the same cuts, and flying free - Appiani. Excellent! Emilia. And the
hair - Appiani. In his own brown glory, in curls, as they beat the
Nature - Emilia. The Rose is not to be missed! Right! right! - A little
patience, and as I stand before you there! Eighth appearance Graf
Appiani. Claudia Galotti. Appiani (by forwarding it with a low-beaten
face looks after). Pearls mean tears - A little patience! - Yes, if the
only time we would except - When a minute in hand we are not in year
could extend - Claudia. Emilien observation, Mr. Graf was as fast as
correct. They are usually more serious than today. Only one step of
the objectives of your wishes - should be 'you reuen, Mr. Graf,
that the goal of your desires have been? Appiani. Ah, my mother, and
you can find the suspect from your son? - But, it's true: I am tonight
unusual cloudy and gloomy .-- Only you can see, my lady: - one step from
the targets or not yet expired, is the basis of an .-- Everything I see,
everything I hear, everything that I dream, preach to me since yesterday
and ehegestern this truth.

This one idea chained to each other, I must have and wants .-- What is
it? I understand it is not .-- Claudia. You make me restless, Mr.
Graf - Appiani. One of ways; the point then to another - I am angry,
angry about my friends, about myself - Claudia. Why? Appiani. My friends
ask for worse, though, that I am the prince of my marriage say a
word, before I perform them. They give me, I was not guilty, but the
respect he wanted to 'have it no other .-- And I am weak enough to
enable them to promise. Just like I have with him in front. Claudia
(aback). When the prince? Ninth appearance Pirro, equal to Marinelli
and former. Pirro. Madam, the Marchese Marinelli keeps home before
and after erkundiget Mr. Counts. Appiani. Following me? Pirro. Here it
is already. (Opens the door to him and go anyway.) Marinelli. I beg
pardon, madam .-- My Lord Count, I was in front of your home and learned
that I would meet you here. I have an urgent business to you - my lady,
I ask for forgiveness again and it is done in a few minutes. Claudia.
I do not want delay. (Makes him a bow and goes anyway.) Tenth
appearance Marinelli. Appiani. Piani Ap. Well, sir? Marinelli. I
come from the Prince Highness. Appiani. What is his commands? Marinelli.
I am proud to be the bearer of such a grace to be excellent .-- And
when Graf Appiani not force one of his most devoted friends in me
wants to ignore - Appiani. Without further preface, if I may ask.
Marinelli. Too! - The prince must be immediately to the Duke of Massa,
in the matter of his marriage with the princess daughter of an Agent
send. He was long undecided, whom he should appoint. We finally made
his choice, Mr. Graf, for you have fallen. Appiani. On me? Marinelli.
And that - if the friendship vainglory may be - not without my
intervention - Appiani. Verily, you put me on any appreciation in
embarrassment .-- I have no longer expected that the prince I will
deign to do .-- Marinelli.

I am assured that it is merely a decent opportunity gemangelt has. And
even if these so a man like Count Appiani still not worthy enough to be,
then, is my friendship with premature. Appiani. Friendship and
friendship to the third floor! - Who am I red? Des Marchese Marinelli
friendship hätt 'I never dreamed .-- Marinelli. I acknowledge my
wrong, Mr. Earl, my unforgivable injustice that I, without your
permission, your friend want to be .-- When all, what does? The grace
of the prince who offered to honor you remain what they are: and I
have no doubt that you are craving them with 'take. Appiani (after
some thought). However. Marinelli. Now as you come. Appiani. Where?
Marinelli. After Dosalo to the prince .-- It is already done
everything, and you still have to leave tonight. Appiani. What do you
say? - Yet today? Marinelli. Better still in this same hour in the
following. The matter is of extreme Eil '. Appiani. The truth? -
So I am sorry that I have the honor, which assigned me the prince,
Make needs. Marinelli. How? Appiani. I can not leave now - not tomorrow
- even about tomorrow yet .-- Marinelli. You jest, Mr. Graf
Appiani. With you? Marinelli. Incomparable! If the joke is the prince,
he is so much funnier .-- You can not? Appiani. No, sir, no .-- And I
hope that the prince himself is my apology to apply. Marinelli. The I'm
anxious to hear. Appiani. Oh, a trifle! - Look, I should still take a
wife. Marinelli. Now? and then? Appiani. And then - and then? - Your
question is also desperately naive.

Marinelli. It has examples, Mr. Graf, that weddings defer .-- I can
not believe that the bride or the groom is always served. The case
may have its unpleasant. But, daecht 'I, the command of the Lord -
Appiani. The command of the Lord - the Lord? One Lord, the man himself
chooses, so our Lord is not really - I admit that the prince would
be imperative owe obedience. But not me .-- I came to his farm as a
volunteer. I wanted to have the honor to serve him, but will not be
a slave. I am the vassal of a larger Lord - Marinelli. Bigger or smaller:
Lord is Lord. Appiani. That I with you about it strittet - Enough, you
say the prince, what you have heard - that I am sorry, his grace
can not accept because I am just a connection tonight vollzoege
which my whole happiness cost.

Marinelli. Do not ask him also know, with whom? Appiani. With Emilia
Galotti. Marinelli. The daughter of this home? Appiani. For this home.
Marinelli. Hm! Hm! Appiani. How popular? Marinelli. I would think
that there THEREFORE the less difficulty they can have the ceremony to
suspend your Zurueckkunft. Appiani. The ceremony? Only the ceremony?
Marinelli. The good parents will not accept as accurate. Appiani.
The good parents? Marinelli. Emilia And yes, you probably certain.
Appiani. Yes most certainly - you are with your so good - probably a
whole monkey! Marinelli. Me, Count? Appiani. Why not? Marinelli. Heaven
and hell - We will talk. Appiani. Pah! Gloating is the monkey, but
- Marinelli. Death and damnation! - Graf, I fodere satisfaction.
Appiani. That goes. Marinelli. And they would like itzt take -
only that I am the gentle bridegroom today might not perish. Appiani.
Kind thing! Not yet! Not yet! (As he takes in hand.) After Massa admittedly
I may not send me today, but for a walk with you I have spare time .--
Come, come! Marinelli (the tear itself away and off). Only patience,
Graf, only patience! Eleventh appearance Appiani. Claudia Galotti.
Appiani. Go, Nichtswuerdiger! - Ha! that has done well. My blood is in
the flush came. I feel differently and better. Claudia (hurry and
worried). God! Mr. Graf - I've got a fierce exchange of words belongs
.-- Her face gluehet. What happened? Appiani. Nothing, madam, nothing.
The chamberlain Marinelli has given me a great service. He took me
to the princes of the Ganges ueberhoben. Claudia. In fact? Appiani.
We can now to leave so much earlier. I expect my people to drive, and
I'm here once again. Emilia, however, is also ready. Claudia. I can
be quiet, Mr. Graf? Appiani. Very quiet, gracious woman. (She goes
inside and he continued.) Third Lift The scene: a vestibule at the
pleasure palace of the prince. First appearance The Prince. Marinelli.
Marinelli. Freely, he suggested the honor offered to the greatest
of contempt. The Prince. And it shall remain here? This is how it work?
Emilia is today his own? Marinelli. Reputation after all. The Prince. I
promised to me by your imagination so much! - Who knows how foolish
you are made .-- If the advice of a once gates is good, so be it a
wiser man execute. That would have "I should remember.

Marinelli. Since I find myself rewarded schoen! The Prince. And for
what reward? Marinelli. The fact that I have in my life about it
wanted to beat the hill .-- When I sahe that neither Ernst nor
ridicule the counts could move, his love of honor nachzusetzen tries'
I get it in armor to hunt. I told him things about which he forgot. He
joined insults against me, and I demanded satisfaction - and invited
them to the same place .-- I thought so, either he or I am him. I him:
so the field is entirely on us. Or he me: now, though, he must flee, and
the prince least time wins. The Prince. That would have you done
Marinelli? Marinelli. Ha! One should 'know ahead of it, so foolish is
ready for the big aufzuopfern - you should see "it requires knowing
how they would be recognizable - The Prince. And the Count? - He stands
in the calls, so do not say to leave twice. Marinelli. After it
falls, without doubt .-- Who can it verdenken? - He returned,
now that he is still something important to do than be with me to break
his neck. And so he accepted me in the first eight days after the wedding.
The Prince. With Emilia Galotti! The idea makes me furious! - Then
let it be good and gone - and come and brag that you have your
life for me on the hill beaten me aufgeopfert - Marinelli.

What do you want to but, gracious Lord, that I should have done more?
The Prince. Continue to do? - As if he would have done something!
Marinelli. And you can hear but, gracious Lord, for what you yourself
have done .-- You were so happy, they are still in the church to
speak. What did you do with it abgeredet? The Prince (mockingly). To
satisfy curiosity - I can only satisfy the needs .-- Oh, it went all
wish .-- You do not continue to try, my friend finished serving too!
- She came to my request for more than half way forward. I'd just
like they may take. (Cold and mandatory.) Now you know what you want
to know - and you can go! Marinelli. And you can go! - Yes, yes, this
is the end of songs! and would 'be set also, I wanted to try the impossible.
- The Impossible I say? - Sun would be impossible' it is probably
not, but kuehn - If we in our Violence bride had said, so would 'I get
that out of the wedding should be nothing. The Prince. Ei! what the man
wants is not everything! Now seems' I gave him only a command of my
bodyguard, and he laid himself on the road so in ambush, and fell
even fifty to a car, and pulled 'a girl out, he triumphs in me zubraechte.
Marinelli. It is rather a girl had been kidnapped by force, without
the need for a violent kidnapping similar view. The Prince. If you
want to do know, they would not talk like this a long time. Marinelli.
But for the outcome, one should not stand .-- It could happen while
Ungluecksfaelle - The Prince. And it is my nature that I am responsible
for things people do what they can not! Marinelli. So, gracious Lord
- (You hear a shot from afar.) Ha! What was that? - Listen 'I'm right -
you do not hear well, gracious Lord, a shot fall? - And there's one!
The Prinz. What is it? what's up? Marinelli. What do you mean? -
How, when I would operate, as you believe it? The Prince. Employed?
- How do you say but - Marinelli. In short: what I am speaking, is
happening. The Prince. Is it possible? Marinelli. Just do not forget
Prince, whose just assured me .-- I have your word again - The Prince.
But the prisons are so - Marinelli. When they can only ever be - the
design is anvertrauet people to which I can depend. The way is hard on
the plank over the Tiergarten.

As a part of the car have been, like, in order to plunder it.

And another part, one of my servants, it is removed from the zoo be
applied equally to the Huelfe. During the scuffle, in which both parts
of convenience advised to be my servant Emilien take, as if he wanted
to save them, and through the Tiergarten in the castle bring .--
That is the arrangement .-- What say you, Prince? The Prince. They
surprised me on a strange Art - And a Bangigkeit ueberfaellt me -
(Marinelli goes to the window.) Wornach do you see? Marinelli.
Dahinaus must be - right - and a mask ways; the point to the plank
already blown up - no doubt to me the success to report .-- away,
gracious Lord. The Prince. Ah, Marinelli - Marinelli. Now? Not true, now
I've done too much and too little earlier? The Prince. The not. But I
do not at all - Marinelli. Absehn? - Dear everything with one! -
Geschwind, remove yourself .-- The mask must not see you. (Go from
The Prince.) Second appearance Marinelli and soon Angelo. Marinelli
(again after the window is).

It runs the car slowly back to the city .-- How slow? And in each propose
a servant? - The signs are that I do not like - that the string probably
only half-succeeded in: - that you have a leisurely zurueckfuehret
wounded - and not dead .-- The mask rises from .- -It is Angelo
himself The Tolldreiste! - Finally, here he knows the tricks .-- He
beckons to me. He must certainly be his cause .-- Ha, Mr. Graf, who
do not want to Massa, and now still have a long way! - Who had the
monkey learned to know? (By the door after he receives it.) Yep,
they are gloating .-- Well, Angelo? Angelo (the mask off).

Adjust to Mr. chamberlain! You need to bring the same. Marinelli. And
how else ran it from? Angelo. I think so, pretty good. Marinelli.
What about the Count? Angelo. To serve! So, so - but he must
have had wind. Because he was not quite unbereitet. Marinelli. Geschwind
tell me what thou hast to tell me - Is he dead? Angelo. I'm sorry to
the good Lord. "Marinelli. Now that, for your compassionate heart! (Is
it a bag of gold.) Angelo. Nicolo my completely honest! the bathroom
with pay. Marinelli. So? Loss on both sides? Angelo. I could weep
for the honest boy! Whether his death I have the (by the bag in his
hand wieget) a four-part improvement. Because I am his heir, because
I had him geraechet. That is our law, so good, my I, as trustee for and
friendship ever made. This Nicolo, Mr chamberlain - Marinelli. With
your Nicolo!

- But the Count, the Count - Angelo. Flash! the count had him well caught.
Dafuer summarizes "I also again the Count!
Oh, I tell you, if you have but a dollar in the
world, and you have got to spend it, spend it like a king; spend it as
though it were a dry leaf and you the owner of unbounded forests!
That's the way to spend it!  I had rather be a beggar and spend my last
dollar like a king, than be a king and spend my money like a beggar.
If it's got to go, let it go.

Get the best you can for your family--try to look as well as you can
yourself.  When you used to go courting, how nice you looked! Ah, your
eye was bright, your step was light, and you just put on the very best
look you could.  Do you know that it is insufferable egotism in you to
suppose that a woman is going to love you always looking as bad as you
can?  Think of it!  Any woman on earth will be true to you forever when
you do your level best.  Some people tell me, "Your doctrine about
loving, and wives, and all that is splendid for the rich, but it won't
do for the poor."  I tell you tonight there is on the average more love
in the homes of the poor than in the palaces of the rich; and the
meanest but with love in it is fit for the gods, and a palace without
love is a den only fit for wild beasts.  That's my doctrine!

You can't be so poor but that you can help somebody.  Good nature is
the cheapest commodity in the world; and love is the only thing that
will pay 10 percent to borrower and lender both. Don't tell me that you
have got to be rich!  We have all a false standard of greatness in the
United States.  We think here that a man to be great, must be
notorious; must be extremely wealthy, or his name must be between the
lips of rumor.  It is all nonsense!  It is not necessary to be rich to
be great, or to be powerful to be happy; and the happy man is the
successful man. Happiness is the legal tender of the soul.  Joy is
wealth.

A little while ago I stood by the grave of the old Napoleon, a
magnificent tomb, fit for a dead deity almost, and gazed into the great
circle at the bottom of it.  In the sarcophagus, of black Egyptian
marble, at last rest the ashes of that restless man.  I looked over the
balustrade, and I thought about the career of Napoleon.  I could see
him walking upon the banks of the Seine contemplating suicide.  I saw
him at Toulon.  I saw him putting down the mob in the streets of Paris.
I saw him at the head of the army of Italy.  I saw him crossing the
bridge at Lodi.  I saw him in Egypt, fighting the battle of the
pyramids.  I saw him cross the Alps, and mingle the eagles of France
with the eagles of the crags.  I saw him at Austerlitz.  I saw him with
his army scattered and dispersed before the blast.  I saw him at
Leipsic when his army was defeated and he was taken captive.  I saw him
escape.  I saw him land again upon French soil, and retake an empire by
the force of his own genius.  I saw him captured once more, and again
at St. Helena, with his arms behind him, gazing out upon the sad and
solemn sea; and I thought of the orphans and Widows he had made.

I thought of the tears that had been shed for his glory.  I thought of
the only woman who ever loved him, who had been pushed from his heart
by the cold hand of ambition; and as I looked at the sarcophagus, I
said, "I would rather have been a French peasant and worn wooden shoes;
I would rather have lived in a hut, with a vine growing over the door,
and the grapes growing and ripening in the autumn sun; I would rather
have been that peasant, with my wife by my side and my children upon my
knees, twining their arms of affection about me; I would rather have
been that poor French peasant, and gone down at last to the eternal
promiscuity of the dust, followed by those who loved me; I would a
thousand times rather have been that French peasant than that imperial
personative of force and murder."  And so I would, ten thousand times.

It is not necessary to be great to be happy; it is not necessary to be
rich to be just and generous, and to have a heart filled with divine
affection.  No matter whether you are rich or poor, use your wife as
though she were a splendid creation, and she will fill your life with
perfume and joy.  And do you know, it is a splendid thing for me to
think that the woman you really love will never grow old to you?
Through the wrinkles of time, through the music of years, if you really
love her, you will always see the face you loved and won.  And a woman
who really loves a man, does not see that he grows older; he is not
decrepit; he does not tremble; he is not old; she always sees the same
gallant gentleman who won her hand and heart.  I like to think of it in
that way.  And contributes much more, on the other hand, this _mirar
which hace_ is extremely fun, it's the best way to kill time or make
it is a pleasant occupation, which is who is not, and that it is not
home is left without her. Hence, no doubt, endless courtship of my land,
which also provides the finest examples of firm consistency that can
record the stories of love. Engagement must start when the groom is in
the grips learning Latin, passed through the humanities, the law or
medicine, and do not end in marriage, until the groom is a judge
of first instance or licensed physician. During this time recorded
when the bride and groom are absent, and when they are in the same
town, are at Mass in the morning, come back to see two or three
times during the day, peel the pava often nap during the return to
be in the afternoon on the promenade, going to the salon from eight
to eleven o'clock, and, after dinner, and look at re talking on the
grate, and there are nights that are peeling the other pava time,
and chewing iron out toward the East until the dawn of the fingers
of pink.

In verifying this is a boyfriend of Antequera, who finally had to marry
at eight years of being a boyfriend, and that is not well married,
showed afligidísimo for not knowing what to do with their time. Another
boyfriend, from Carcabuey I heard I count as a testament to how
ingrained is the idea that marriage requires a lot of calm before you
perform, that her future mother-in-law, whereas his daughter had
already thirteen years speak with one boyfriend, but he came to ask,
and she was a little wilted and ajando was resolved to ask the groom
what brought intentions. And being armed with resolution and asked the
question, replied the groom and a very surprised it is not contrary: -
Válgame God, lady! Is this a dagger rogue? Prevail and even private
Villafría so healthy doctrines about the longevity of engagement, and
the reader will bear the shock would produce that outburst, that Dona
Luz impremeditación that was decided. - This is a escopetazo - one said.
- Come on - said another - all are well understood: if she claimed it
was not thinking about marriage, it was vanistorio because they
disdained the villagers, but just arrived here from a currutaco the
court fell on him and grabbed him as the spider catches the fly.
pretenders neglected, which carried all before it with resignation,
assuming that the console, the proportion of Doña Luz born of his
love for God and the sky when they learned that Mrs. Luz liked both
the ground and another man like them, not spared either, and criticism
of its lightness. - has been thrown into the arms of the first come
- exclaim - without love, without estimation, because neither love
nor estimation born so suddenly. Has attracted the concern of
going to shine in Madrid. Buñolera gypsy To put it to fry and sell
their donuts at the corner of the house of Don Acisclo, gypsy very
judgmental, called Watermark, more famous for its judgments Peter
Lombard himself, said in ironic - Dona Luz is an oriental pearl, the
pearl does not repair the fisherman, or whether it is true or not,
it is to the fish and causes them to look at Olen's Oclaye.

Quite a few of these murmurings reached the ears of Doña Luz, but
did not make a dent in his heart. Nothing that shut itself found
its echo in clean and quiet conscience. Doña Luz was a woman and had
soul and felt need of love. Your love, without visible object and
human, as had been dormant until then. An object worthy to be offered
in their eyes, and Doña Luz dedicated to everything you love. Every
day, every hour that passed, said more doña Luz on the belief that Don
Jaime deserved it. The same love of D. Jaime, the determination with
which he had offered his hand to her, helpless, orphan and poor, the
security was better and safer. As she was getting married, seeking to
be included in Madrid, Doña Luz laughed at negligible hear. Doña
Luz had resolved not to go to Madrid while could not go: Villafría
stay living at home, here having its center, his headquarters, nest,
then take care of their property and improving and increasing irlos;
drown in your soul any propensity jealous, and not consent, but encourage
her husband to be alone in the capital, to shine in the Congress
of Deputies, in the political struggles and military business.

Doña Luz imitated in this wanted to Vitoria Colonna, and wait for their
hero, their sun, their lover, when coming to rest at the rustic asylum,
that the love she had to fill spell and delight. I did not want, in
short, be burdensome for the office in Madrid but rest, refuge, consolation,
sweet saint, in that village. In his talks with amorous D. James, Doña
Luz unwinding its entire plan. I wanted him to glory, power, influence
at court, and this streaky of a series of idylls in Villafría, where
she had to wait as Armida charity, every time he came to rest in his
arms, covered with fresh laurels. Don Jaime struggling because Doña Luz
had to go to Madrid with him, but as repugnant doña Luz size obstinacy,
D. Jaime had to compromise, agreeing that for now, that is, until they
were both much richer Doña Luz continue to reside in Villafría. All
this was so poetic that fixed readers, because it knows not to blame
Doña Luz and the objectionable people in their place, but in any case,
on the contrary: over rare and magnificent, because he preferred to
live many months of the year separated from her husband to be in
Madrid because prosaic difficulties of life and economic enough to
kill the love stronger.

Doña Luz, layout and thus firmly into their own hands the future of his
life, he saw no reason in his soul, but of satisfaction and contentment.
Your intimate bloomed. The sweet dream of being a wife and mother moved
with the presentation of ineffable tenderness. An interior lit up his
mind clearly, beatified, and it seemed that trasminando to the outside,
his face radiated into and provide your body more beautiful than
ever Belda. And the fields are filled freshness of spring to arrive
and the sky is stained with purple and gold when the sun is out, and
then showed Mrs. Luz Gallardo and more refulgente. His joy was so noble,
so generous and so confident, and divine expression that gave
joy to him was kind of nice so that the censorship was unarmed, after
all, and look, had to bless all mankind. In his mind it was almost all
bright and cheerful. Only, back in the depths, a small corner, where
no light penetrates, and where, somewhat confusing, as there was
a germ, like a seed of faint disgust and unease. Doña Luz unwittingly
well aware of it, by instinct savior, trying to start one seed, to
drown one germ, so that it no outbreaks of the poisonous weed. Doña Luz
thought abnormal in their dealings with the P. Enrique; acute at that
friendship, in that affection which he had always shown. It is clear
that to Doña Luz things could not have anything remotely in common
with love. But by the same token, his affection for the Father had
to stay, and demonstrations of affection that should not be stopped or
mitigated, thus she was inclined to believe they were the very
essence of what was the husband of his soul future, as it had been
and inconstant whim, he had put in a not so free as intact as ever
given to anyone who treasured caring heart, but something or much
of what he had before given to another and then quitádoselo . So,
strove Doña Luz, but in vain, because as always affable and affectionate
with Fr Enrique. And seeing as it could not, seeing as it's touching
your soul with the Father, and by the word, and the gaze, when before
it seemed that spring heat and magnetic fire, then ice is formed,
it was explained assuming that no effect on brilliance or
human hearts for several affections, and that, where a rule, others
faint and fall, even of very different nature and condition. The soul
of the father continued to doña Luz always clear, transparent and
impenetrable, the deep sea that embraces film and the Andalusian
coast.

The sun passes through many layers of water and everything is full
of clarity, but there in the deepest, it darkens and loses sight
between iris, reflections, Argentine litmus and lightning, and nothing
distinguishes accurately and fixity. Father had not changed in
appearance at least. The same serenity, the same sweetness as ever. Do
not alter your voice to speak of D. Or Jaime D. Jaime. In speaking with
Dona Luz, the former showed the Father loving kindness. Not a word
which is felt even remotely a tip irony of pique or spite. "O Father
has it on its own a domain implausible - Doña Luz thought - or not
I ever loved. One would suspect that Manuel, who I heard as full of
malicious slander villainy, was in essence a creation of my ridiculous
vanity, which, though the matter further, I am flattered instead of
angry. No, there is no good Fr Enrique I felt that I had in high
regard, thanks to his great indulgence, I want as a neighbor of choice,
but everything else is absurd dream, my imagination is presumed.

And better so. "Doña Luz and end with these words, to let off
sighs, as one who removes severe weight lifted. At other times,
even more eager to download his consciousness, to decline all
responsibility, though the reasoning was demonstrated earlier itself
that it had nothing to leave to the chagrin of responsible Doña Luz was
gone in his memory all favors made to the Father was removing
all worth and significance to the demonstrations of affection that
had given him, and it was all reduced to a narrow proportions of
severe cold and friendship, as we can and must mediate between a
teacher and a disciple , affirms it or deleting from any embarrassing
memories, false in its feel, even the slightest flirtation unconscious
by it. In the meantime, spent the days and was close to the wedding,
which was to be no apparatus. Don Acisclo Pepe and ghettos, however,
had made a short trip to Seville to buy gifts for the bride, each
according to his abilities. The D. Acisclo was great. It consisted of
some outstanding and brilliant in a snap, which cost him two thousand
duros. Pepe the Ghetto was a bracelet that cost ten thousand reais. Don
Jaime Madrid had instructed some finery and jewels, that should
get one day to another. Don Jaime lives showed impatience; enamoradísimo
appeared and tried to rush the wedding. While most days are approaching
sigh, boyfriends were more tender, his intimate were endless: came
together on horseback in the Doña Luz theirs and D. Jaime otherwise
quite good and beautiful, the property of D.

Acisclo; iban and walk on foot, accompanied by Mrs. Manolita very proud
of being the middleman in that happy alliance. Fr Henry would always
eat at home with D. Acisclo, but claiming that he had to write or to
study, went to lunch at his house, where his servant Ramon prepared
and served him a frugal breakfast. Also the gathering of the night,
or have already retired earlier than usual or already retraía the Father:
but this was not surprising. Acisclo Don Pepe Ghetto and gave the
example.

Certainly the conversation in a low voice of the bride and groom and
their disregard of all unintended bystanders not invited to something
else. The doctor D. Anselmo came and went, staying a short time at
the meeting. No longer disputed or got to light their philosophies
because Doña Luz no attention to anything other than D. Jaime. It was,
therefore, that the gathering, so busy before, was almost always
in frame. Acisclo Don, D. Anselmo, Pepe Ghetto and the Father is away,
and left the bride and groom alone in its eternal Smalltalk, as I
said doña Manolita; it to be resigned with a taste of both the owner and
the dog Palomo, who is missing a foot D. Jaime, who had much love for
the know instinctively that she had loved her, and sometimes the priest
D. Miguel, whom the lovers whisper to produce the same effect as the
shouts and speeches of the philosophers, leaving you pleasantly
sleeping and dreaming maybe in the great role it played in making this
drama rejoiced when the bride and groom to miss the blessings.

Huérfanos boyfriends of both father and mother, and determined that
the wedding party should be held without giving anyone and without
noise, and concluded that around so fast and missing but not being
married for four days, care free to invite anyone from Madrid and
call friends or relatives to attend the wedding at that location.

D. At the same Acisclo, we greatly appreciate their magnificent
gift, and intentions that he had to invite all his kindred, and
providing a meal and a dance, Doña Luz begged him not to do anything,
she wanted to marry, if not in secret, silence. - A clogged cowbells
- said D. Acisclo, who was very keen to use the word metaphorically
_cencerro_. - This is a closed bell - Doña Luz replied. XVI-Meditations-Fr
Henry, as we have pointed out previously, it was not worth: not merely
the business of his life to speak at the gathering of D. Acisclo. In the
solitude of his room for hours and hours spent reading and writing.
Not surprisingly modest, do not expect that, since the public was very
useful, yet wrote an extensive piece of not lifting hand. It was an
apology or a new defense of Christianity against the attacks of the
most flamboyant philosophical pantheist, materialist and positivist.'s
Unique and charming innocence of the Father is revealed in
every sentence of this remarkable writing. It seems that everything he
was, more than a book of controversy, a monologue, or rather a dialogue
in which two alternating voices of the soul.

His understanding cold, calculating, away from the faith, as
proposed arguments and metaphysical, and historical and taken from
the sciences of observation, can be brought against the supernatural
revelation, the life of the immortal spirit and even against God
himself.

And his understanding also illustrated in more light and accompanied
and strengthened by faith, responded to the arguments above, calm with
the victory. There was nothing affected or conventional. Of being the
Father, who is portrayed accurately. It seems that their faith
enclosed interior and strong fortress, fought against human speech,
which did not destroy it, but those efforts are made conducive for
it, to see her leave victorious and triumphant in these efforts themselves.

Every now and then some fellow
got reckless and said:  "I will die, I am so thirsty," and drank two or
three quarts of water and got well.  And they kept that up until
finally the doctors said, "that is the best thing for a fever you can
do."

I have more confidence to agree with nature about these things than any
of the conclusions of the schools.  Just let your children have
freedom, and they will fall right into your ways and do just as you do.
But you try to make them, and there is some magnificent, splendid thing
in the human heart that will not be driven.  And do you know it is the
luckiest thing for this world that ever happened that people are so.
What would we have been if the people in any age of the world had done
just as the doctors told them?  They would have been all dead.  What
would we have done if, at any age of the world, we had followed
implicitly the direction of the church?  We would have been all idiots,
every one.

It is a splendid thing that there is always some fellow who won't mind,
and will think for himself.  And I believe in letting children think
for themselves.  I believe in having a family like a democracy.  If
there is anything splendid in this world it is a home of that kind.
They used to tell us, "Let your victuals close your mouth."  We used to
eat as though it was a religious performance.  I like to see the
children about, and every one telling what he has seen and heard.  I
like to hear the clatter of the knives and spoons mingling with the
laughter of their voices.  I had rather hear it than any opera that has
ever been put upon the boards.  Let them have liberty; let them have
freedom, and I tell you your children will love you to death.

Now, I have some excuses to offer for the race to which I belong. I
have two.  My first excuse is that this is not a very good world to
raise folks in anyway.  It is not very well adapted to raising
magnificent people.  There's only a quarter of it land to start with.
It is three times better fitted for raising fish than folks, and in
that one quarter of land there is not a tenth part fit to raise people
on.  You can't raise people without a good climate.  You have got to
have the right kind of climate, and you have got to have certain
elements in the soil, or you can't raise good people.  Do you know that
there is only a little zig-zag strip around the world within which have
been produced all men of genius?

The southern hemisphere has never produced a man of genius, never; and
never will until civilization, fighting the heat that way and the cold
this, widens this portion of the earth until it is capable of producing
great men and great women.  It is the same with men that it is with
vegetation; you go into a garden, and find there flowers growing.  And
as you go up the mountain, the birch and the hemlock and the spruce are
to be found.  And as you go toward the top, you find little, stunted
trees getting a miserable subsistence out of the crevices of the rocks,
and you go on up and up and up, until finally you find at the top
little moss-like freckles.  You might as well try to raise flowers
where those freckles grow as to raise great men and women where you
haven't got the soil.

I don't believe man ever came to any high station without woman. There
has got to be some restraint, something to make you prudent, something
to make you industrious.  And in a country where you don't need any bed
quilt but a cloud, revolution is the normal condition of the people.
You have got to have the fireside; you have got to have the home, and
there by the fireside will grow and bloom the fruits of the human race.
I recollect a while ago I was in Washington when they were trying to
annex Santo Domingo.  They said:  "We want to take in Santo Domingo."
Said I:   "We don't want it."  "Why," said they, "it is the best
climate the earth can produce.  There is everything you want."  "Yes,"
said I, "but it won't produce men. We don't want it.  We have got soil
enough now.  Take 5,000 ministers from New England, 5,000 presidents of
colleges, and 5,000 solid business men, and their families, and take
them to Santo Domingo; and then you will see the effect of climate. The
second generation, you will see barefooted boys riding bareback on a
mule, with their hair sticking out of the top of their sombreros, with
a rooster under each arm, going to a cock-fight on Sunday."

You have got to have the soil; you have got to have the climate, and
you have got to have another thing--you have got to have the fireside.
That is one excuse I have for us.

The next excuse is that I think we came up from the lower animals.
Else how can you account for all this snake and hyena and jackal in
man? Now, when I first heard that doctrine, I didn't like it.  I felt
sorry for people who had nothing but ancestors to be proud of.  It
touched my heart to think that they would have to go back to the Duke
Orangutan or the Duchess Chimpanzee.  I was sorry, and I hated to
believe it.  I don't know that it is the truth now.  I am not satisfied
upon that question; I stand about eight to seven.  I thought it over.
I read about it.  I read about these rudimentary bones and muscles. I
didn't like that.  I read that everybody had rudimentary muscles coming
from the ear right down here (indicating); that the most intellectual
people in the world have got them.  I say, "What are they?"
"Rudimentary muscles."  "What kind of muscles?" "Muscles that your
ancestors used to have fully developed." "What for?"  "To flap their
ears with."

Well, whether we ever had them or not, I know of lots of men who ought
to have them yet.  And finally I said, "Well, I guess we came up from
the lower animals."  I thought it all over; the best I could, and I
said, "I guess we did."  And after a while I began to like it, and I
like it better now than I did before.

Do you know that I would rather belong to a race that started with
skull-less vertebrae in the dim Laurentian seas, wiggling without
knowing why they wiggled, swimming without knowing where they were
going; but kept developing and getting a little further up and a little
further up, all through the animal world, and finally striking this
chap in the dug-out.  A getting a little bigger, and this fellow
calling that fellow a heretic, and that fellow calling the other an
infidel, and so on.  For in the history of the world, the man who has
been ahead has always been called a heretic.  Recollect this!  I would
rather come from a race that started from that skull-less vertebrae,
and came up and up and up, and finally produced Shakespeare, who found
the human intellect wallowing in a hut, and touched it with a wand of
his genius, and it became a palace--dome and pinnacle.  Afterward is
just a builder of times before residents can expect solid, but now
sometimes runs into a nation that is nothing but rauft and smite,
table and chair umwirft and Bottom to Top returns. Yes where is there a
house hernehmen patience because wirds halt springgiftig, and finally
fall rage together. Understood? Wolf. This is all quite right, but
now let us talk sensibly. Plinth.

Allow, but my speech is a true triumph of reason.

Understood? Wolf. I have given you the unpleasant news to tell you
that the construction of the castle will not get it. Plinth. Listen
to, or I rush along like an old garden wall. That is according to our
appointment is not possible! Understood? Wolf. The gnädge gentleman
will take the builder Gründling. (A servant of Flottwell breakfast
brought comes back.) Socket. But it was quite all right. I've got you
thousands G - Wolf (quickly looking at the servant). Well, you have
given me a thousand reasons I said, the - socket. No, I promised you
- Wolf. Yes (with the unwilling stomps feet), you have promised to
take good materials. Fritz, then somebody has rung. (The Serves goes
from a cabinet.)

But I can not ensure that someone else has come to even greater promises
made and the palace to ten thousand guilders probably Feiler builds.
Plinth. But this is a wretched man, who did not understand to
build. A polishing hergelaufener Maurer, a bungler, and I am a man
on the court. Understood? Wolf.

It makes you very much honored that you are so angry about your colleagues,
but that can only worsen the situation! Base. But you get a yes to
despair. (Beiseite.) I can not miss the building, it bears much a
me. (Power against the public pantomime of counting money.) Understood?
(Laut.) Dear Mr. valet, I know it depends only on you. The gracious
Lord grieved not matter that he is too reckless. I'll give you one
thousand guilders coin convention. Wolf. Sir, - What to catch you
- plinth.

I underpinning me, you have five hundred guilders to offer. Wolf. Yes you
are piling insult on insult - plinth. Admittedly, I'm the most brutal
guy in the world. But now I have it in my rudeness, I still have
to indicate five hundred guilders.

Wolf. Hold it!

You disgust me with such immoral impositions! Socket (aside). Ah,
because you want to decapitate himself. Wolf. I see that, your honor
- plinth. Oh what glory! There is no shame in a linearly, if you build
a castle, but can fire s' belonging to a not so golden. (Beiseite.) Only
the money is lost! Wolf. You will laugh at you! Base. Admittedly, it
hats the whole city. Wolf. How was this possible? Base. Because my wife
said ichs hab. Wolf. Yes because you are married? Base. Unfortunately!
Understood? Wolf (timidly). May have children! Base. Yep. Wolf. Oh,
that's just very sad. How many? Base. My God, as much as you want,
give me just the construction. Wolf. Yes, I know. Plinth. Five, and
two yet to be expected! Understood? Wolf. Dreadful! The move me! Base.
Let soften. Take the two thousand guilders. Wolf (with regret).
They are family man! They have five children! Why did you not say?

And the other builders may have no children. Plinth. Not a single
one. Wolf. Ah, yes because you need to get the construction. That
would be the highest injustice. Plinth. You edelmütger O man! Wolf.
Now I can accept your gift. But you must promise me, a masterpiece
for the ages this place - the socket. Ten years of no repair - Wolf.
Because of the advantage rule is my gnädgen me about everything.
Socket (weeping). Great soul! (Both in Flott Wells from Cabinet.)
Sixth appearance Valentin. Valentin. Heissa funny song without
worries Leb I enter into the day, nobody needs me something to
borrow, Schön ists, a servant z program. "First, I am grown zart As
the most beautiful man in the world, all bags I fully Maxen, What
the girls do so. Secondly, I can endure a lot, wrote a sense
lampelfrommen, From mind I will say nothing, because I'm too modest.

Thirdly, I can sing beautifully, My voice is so, because I hardly let
them ring out, running s' all equal out. Fourth, I can write, read,
possessions of computing a track, I'm a carpenter Gsell been - And a man
of polish. Fifth, Sixth, siebntens , Fall eighthly really nothing more,
why should I believe, too, the song end. Ah! Today I can say once:
Morgenstund wear gold in your mouth. Did me the singer, the other day
at our concert aria sung a Chinese has, for the fee, which I received
from the merciful Lord have brought on two bare Ducats gift. The
gracious Lord has it but also for a single aria fifty ducats pay.
This is a nice money. But this is nothing against England. In London,
listen, I sing because s' even after the weight. Here comes one
of the big notes on a whole pound, so it is s' and the pound notes.
Because merits a single evening to a few cent. The couple have always
been a horse, that they lead after the fee. But it was something to
this divine singer. I understand but some of the music, because
in my youth I often referred to the notes I have been thrashed, but it
comes in Distonieren no equal. I've got the whole aria can not hear
because I was in the courtyard below and the dog calms hab so that s'
is not as strong dreingeheult, but once it has left out a scream - No,
I have several rooms woman screaming ghört, but this tone has
shaken my insides. But the most melodious sound, it was only shown
as the two ducats thrown on the table, which makes them immortal.
And if I am a theater director about: the engagieret I among the
finest conditions. (Rosa sneaks in, occurs slowly and is at the last
words with verscblungenen arms beside him.) And she smiled at me -
she smiled - Rosa. Well, and how did they smile? (Smiles
maliciously.) How? Did she smiled so - so? Valentin. Ah, stop it! That
is just a travesty to their smile. You will not you imagine that
you're also able? Rosa. Why? Why is it better than I can laugh?
Valentin. Well, a person responsible for an aria gets fifty ducats, which
is strange but you can laugh?

Rosa. Yes, but who laughs last, laughs best, and they will I be. I need
no lover of the city and the theater hineinlauft princesses makes the
Cour. Valentin. I must do what my Lord commands it. Period! Rosa. You
and your Lord is like the others. Valentin. Nu me about the law, I
would be a millionaire like him. Rosa. You have your amour in the
town, and he s' in the forest of it. And how look out for? The whole
day you have to correct him! Is there a scarf tied loosely you human?
Go forth! (Puts it to him.) Valentin. To listen to you strangle me,
yes, I'm not so cords together! Rosa. That must be his. Valentin. No,
the cord is very unhealthy. It is now completely out of the mod come.
Do you also not so zusammradeln. Rosa. That is not what people! Valentin.
But well! The hätt cords should be banned in court, but the landlord,
however eingekommen. Rosa. Because my! Apropos Yes, yes you are
standing there, as when a public holiday today wär? Will the same
attraction and you go on the hunt! Valentin. Now I must return to the
stinkin 'game. Rosa. Yes who can ensure that you have such a good
hunter you? Valentin. Ah, I do not jag ja, ich werd ja hunted. They
treat me like not even a hunter. I ghör yes under the Wildpret.
The last of the gracious Lord has a wild duck shot, and because no
hound was at hand, so I must fetch the water, and as I was the middle
of it, they have never let me. Rosa. And so you let everything gfallen?
Valentin. Yes because I hold to my Lord in the fire go, go, I stop for
him into the water. Rosa. Nu Tummel dich so, it will begin immediately.
Valentin. The confoundedly hunting! When you just do not würd so hungry,
but I assure you: A hunter and a dog eats all district students. Rosa.
But shame on you! Valentin. You do not know what you auszustehen has.
What the guests do everything. My soul, if I can not because the Lord
would be merciful, I flogged them all together. Rosa. So the red
but not always from the beat in an elegant house. As you can see
immediately that you're grown up under the wood. Valentin. Cast me
not always stand before my carpenter. Rosa. Because you're not so
pfostenmäßig. Valentin. Do not swear on my profession. Rosa. Let
me go. I take me another. I know who I am marriage. Duett Rosa. A
locksmith is my weak since, this is the first man who ensures our
safety and to smite the castles.

Valentin. My child, because you're a bad report, The carpenter comes
before, the locksmith is not the first, the carpenter makes the gate.
Rosa. A locksmith is too black for me and his love is too hot. Valentin.
Love is a hairdresser in the making you only what you know. Rosa. No!
no! a turner! o how beautiful! This is done for me. Valentin. The
nose can give you a drehn, As you take in eight. Rosa. A Bäck, which is
too solid, I'm afraid that I härm. Valentin. So take a coppersmith, The
smite a right noise. Rosa. With a cutter, in fact, it's glorious I draus
Valentin. But if he has no customers, Sun is the twine him. Rosa. A
safer Klampfrer is a man, the missing never to plate. Valentin. I advise
you to a cobbler halt Wegner It is bad luck. Rosa. A Hutrer would
probably not be risked, The has a safer asset. Valentin. Yes if the
world loses its head, since humans do not need a hat. Rosa. A speculator,
oh what glory - hätt But I hardly dare. Valentin. Ah, if he makes smart
Krida, Da gehts him only fairly well. Rosa. In short, I wend
forgiveness in a circle around my eye. So I have to return to the
carpenter, He is my only happiness. Valentin. You rely on the young
carpenter, makes the grief And you do not get lucky once a jump, the
carpenters glued together. Both. A beautiful venue is yet to Ehr A man
wackrer craft. Seis tailor, shoemaker, seis hairdresser, I offer the
glass to him. (Both from.) Seventh appearance helmet, in hunting dress,
steps out of his Cabinet.

Wolf from Wells Flott rooms. Helmet. Now, how is Mr. valet, soon gehts
los? Wolf (very busy). Yep, the same gnädge Lord will appear. (Runs to
the window.) Heda, hunters, let's hear you! Pagenberg, the horses!
Rifle Tensioners quickly up! (One hears hunting horns.) Helmet. Holla,
holla, hurtig, gentlemen! comes out, goes to the dance. (Several guests
come to the middle part, and partly out of the side doors, also Pralling.
Valentin. jagdmäßig All are dressed.) Pralling. Good morning everyone!
All (other). Good morning! Did you sleep well? Helmet. Potz gosh, it
was a bad night! Pralling. My sleep is like a dissolute servant,
if I call him, he is not. Helmet. He is a free man, and comes only
when he wants. Walter. A coquette is he who adorns before they embraced
us. Previous Eighth appearance. Chevalier Dumont hunting in an elegant
suit. Dumont (looks through a simple lorgnette). Ah bon jour, mes amis!
(He speaks broken German.) Geschlafen How Did You All. Ah, our natural
friend! Dumont. Yes, Messieurs, nature's great.

Ick aben geschwelgt again in her charms. The whole night I ick at the
window located to the area to be considered. O charming! Previous
ninth appearance. Flottwell. Socket. Flottwell. Good morning, noble
friends! All. Good morning! (Some shake his hand.) Flottwell. We
arrive late for hunting. I hope that the gentlemen, tonight for the
first time in my castle rested, with the operation were so happy,
as always eager ichs only wish for. Would have it, I sleep with sweet
dreams also entertained, but unfortunately not stand in my
pay. A guest. I have dreamed of lilies. Helmet. And to me by a wild
sow, which I've given the Fang. Walter. I have the hospitality at a
golden table saw and German laurel has adorned her head. Pralling. I
have all my luck on the Coeur-Dame, and when I had lost it, I woke
up. Flottwell. And what did you dream, friend Valentine? Valentin. I
have dreamed that your grace had me four ducats a gift. Flottwell
(laughing). This is a eigennützger dream, but I want to meet him.
Valentin. I Küss graces your hand. Flottwell. What I dreamed of, can I
have not yet discovered. It was a sweet dream, ready to service my
highest desire, he gave me my life reflected a rosy future. Helmet.
You certainly have dreamed of a rendezvous.

Spitzbub! What? From eyes like ruby and such stupid Zeuch. Flottwell
(laughing). You may have guessed something, heart brother. It is a
rendezvous for the whole life. But still like this, my heart is wanton
tonight, it could reveal. Pralling. We already know your tricks, you
have other hunting in mind than we do. Flottwell. So it is. Jagt your
friends to see me you do not need to worry about. We have a
passion for each other. Pralling. I suffer from the gout. Helmet. I am
a passionate hunter. Walter. I'm talking about the champagne. Dumont.
And ick bewundre nature. Helmet. That takes me wonder Chevalier. They
are so shortsighted. Dumont. These are all human. Pralling. And if
you drive, you sleep in the car. Dumont. O, the Macken nothing. A
true nature lover have her beauty even in your sleep can admire.
Helmet. I can not. My favorite is the hunt. Flottwell. Heda! Bordeaux
takes us. The gentlemen will be amazed. Dumont. Mackt me the windows
on that ick can view the landscape. (Looks through the glass.) Wolf.
Here is Bordeaux! (He ordered the servants who were already prepared
and filled him in on stem glasses silver cups present.) Walter (calls).
Wonderful Wine! Dumont (delightedly calling out the window). Heavenly
waterfall! Flottwell (swings the glass). On ewge friendship
and long life, my gentlemen, all. The rich Flottwell live long! Dumont
(as before, without a glass to have taken). Ha! the churchyard there
Macken good. Flottwell. Oh, would I have rich! I only wish it to be
my treasures with the world to share. What is the mammon too! the
money is far too much attention. Drum ists so proud. There will
never be the poor man's pocket and streams remain always only the rich
again. Helm (enthusiasmiert). Who is as good as our noble Flottwell
here? Walter. I know of no mind to his equals. All. Yep! Dumont. Un
enfant de la nature gate. Flottwell. Oh, do not praise me too much. I
have no merit as my father's gold. Will the world verzeihn me, ists
well and good, and does not Sies, like themselves with their envy resign.
I fight not with him. My happiness is bold, it calls me out, so I want
my life großartig enjoy and want to visit me worry, let me deny.
Badlands philosophers I think not. Not true, friend helmet, you must
save the lives of the beautiful page sum? The sky is its magnificent
icon. The glühnde hot sun like the fire of love, the moon mildgesinnte
of intimate friendship, the rich seed of the stars is a picture of
the millions of joys in the life germinate. The clouds are indeed
serious kummer full days, but is a flüchtger Frohsinn wind, which they
chased. Plinth. A god man! A true god man! Understood! Flottwell.
Give a glass but also our brave builders.
If I should make a machine that would walk your streets
and commit murder, you would hang me.  Why not?  And if God made a man
whom He knew would commit murder, then God is guilty of that murder.
If God made a man, knowing he would beat his wife, that he would starve
his children, that he would strew on either side of his path of life
the wrecks of ruined homes, then, I say, the being who called that
wretch into existence is directly responsible.  And yet we are to find
the providence of God in the history of nations. What little I have
read shows me that when man has been helped, man had to do it; when the
chains of slavery have been broken, they have been broken by man; when
something bad has been done in the government of mankind, it is easy to
trace it to man, and to fix the responsibility upon human beings.  You
will not look to the sky; you need throw neither praise nor blame; you
can find the efficient causes nearer home--right here.

What is the next thing I find in this creed?  "We believe that man was
made in the image of God, that he might know, love and obey God, and
enjoy Him for ever."  I don't believe that anybody ever did love God,
because nobody ever knew anything about Him. We love each other.  We
love something that we know.  We love something that our experience
tells us is good and great, and good and beautiful.  We cannot by any
possibility love the unknown.  We can love truth, because truth adds to
human happiness.  We can love justice, because it preserves human joy.
We can love charity.  We can love every form of goodness that we know,
or of which we can conceive, but we cannot love the infinitely unknown.
And how can we be made in the image of something that has neither body
and parts nor passions?

"That our first parents, by disobedience, fell under the condemnation
of God, and that all men are so alienated from God that there is no
salvation from the guilt and power of sin except through God's
redeeming power."  Is there an intelligent man or woman now in the
world who believes in the Garden of Eden story? If there is, strike
here (tapping his forehead) and you will hear an echo.  Something is
for rent.  Does any human being now believe that God made man of dust
and a woman of a rib, and put them in a garden, and put a tree in the
middle of it? Wasn't there room outside of the garden to put His tree,
if He didn't want people to eat His apple?  If I didn't want a man to
eat my fruit I would not put him in my orchard.

Does anybody now believe in the snake story?  I pity any man or woman
who, in this nineteenth century, believes in that childish fable.  Why
did they disobey?  Why, they were tempted.  Who by? The devil.  Who
made the devil?  What did He make him for?  Why didn't He tell Adam and
Eve about this fellow?  Why didn't he watch the devil instead of
watching Adam and Eve?  Instead of turning them out, why didn't He keep
him from getting in?  Why didn't He have His flood first and drown the
devil, before He made man and woman?

And yet people who call themselves intelligent--professors in colleges
and presidents of venerable institutions--teach children, and young men
who ought to be children, that the Garden of Eden story is an absolute,
historical fact!  Well, I guess it will not be long until that will
fade from the imagination of men.  I defy any man to think of a more
childish thing.  This God waiting around there, knowing all the while
what would happen, made them on purpose so it would happen; and then
what does he do?  Holds all of us responsible; and we were not there.
Here is a representative before the constituency had been born. Before
I am bound by a representative, I want a chance to vote for or against
him; and if I had been there, and known all the circumstances, I should
have voted against him.  And yet, I am held responsible.

What did Adam do?  I cannot see that it amounted to much anyway. A god
that can create something out of nothing ought not to have complained
of the loss of an apple.  I can hardly have the patience to speak upon
such a subject.  Now, that absurdity gave birth to another--that, while
we could be rightfully charged with the rascality of somebody else, we
could also be credited with the virtues of somebody else; and the
atonement is the absurdity which offsets the other absurdity of the
fall of man. Let us leave them both out; it reads a great deal better
with both of them out; it makes better sense.

Now, in consequence of that, everybody is alienated from God. How?
Why? Oh, we are all depraved, you know; we all want to do wrong.  Well,
why? Is that because we are depraved?  No.  Why do we make so many
mistakes? Because there is only one right way, and there is an almost
infinite number of wrong ones; and as long as we are not perfect in our
intellects we must make mistakes.  There is no darkness but ignorance;
and alienation, as they call it, from God, is simply a lack of
intellect upon our part.  Why were we not given better brains?  That
may account for the alienation.  But the church teaches that every soul
that finds its way to the shore of this world is against God--naturally
hates God; that the little dimpled child in the cradle is simply a
chunk of depravity.  Everybody against God!  It is a libel upon the
human race; it is a libel upon all the men who have worked for wife and
child; it is a libel upon all the wives who have suffered and labored,
wept and worked for children; it is a libel upon all the men who have
died for their country; it is a libel upon all who have fought for
human liberty; it is a libel upon the human race.  Leave out the
history of the church, and there is nothing in this world to prove the
depravity of man left.

Everybody that comes is against God.  Every soul, they think, is like
the wrecked Irishman.  He was wrecked in the sea and drifted to an
unknown island, and as he climbed up the shore he saw a man, and said
to him, "Have you a government here?"  The man said, "We have."
"Well," said he, "I am agin it!"   The church teaches us that that is
the attitude of every soul in the universe of God.  Ought a god to take
any credit to himself for making depraved people?  A god that cannot
make a soul that is not totally depraved, I respectfully suggest,
should retire from the business.  And if a god has made us, knowing
that we would be totally depraved, why should we go to the same being
for repairs?

What is the next?  "That all men are so alienated from God that there
is no salvation from the guilt and power of his sin except through
God's redeeming grace."

Reformation is not enough.  If the man who steals becomes perfectly
honest, that is not enough; if the man who hates his fellow-man changes
and loves his fellowman, that is not enough; he must go through the
mysterious thing called the second birth; he must be born again.  That
is not enough unless he has faith; he must believe something that he
does not understand. Reformation is not enough; there must be what they
call conversion.  I deny it.  According to the church, nothing so
excites the wrath of God--nothing so corrugates the brows of Jehovah
with revenge--as a man relying on his own good works. He must admit
that he ought to be damned, and that of the two he prefers it, before
God will consent to save him.  I saw a man the other day, and he said
to me, "I am a Unitarian Universalist; that is what I am."  Said I,
"What do you mean by that?"  "Well," said he, "here is what I mean:
the Unitarian thinks he is too good to be damned, and the Universalist
thinks God is too good to damn him, and I believe them both."

What is the next thing in this great creed?

"We believe that the scriptures of the old and new testaments are the
records of God's revelation of Himself in the work of redemption; that
they are written by men, under the special guidance of the Holy Spirit,
and that they constitute an authoritative standard by which religious
teaching and human conduct are to be regulated and judged."

This is the creed of the Congregational Church; that is, it is the
result of the high-joint commission appointed to draw up a creed for
churches; and there we have the statement that the bible was written
"by men, under the special guidance of the Holy Spirit."  What part of
the bible?  All of it; all of it; and yet what is this old testament
that was written by an infinitely good God?  The being who wrote it did
not know the shape of the world He had made.  The being who wrote it
knew nothing of human nature; He commands men to love Him, as if one
could love upon command.  The same God upheld the institution of human
slavery; and the church says the bible that upholds that institution
was written by men under the guidance of the Holy Spirit.  Then I
disagree with the Holy Ghost upon that institution.

The church tells us that men, under the guidance of the Holy Ghost,
upheld the institution of polygamy--I deny it; that under the guidance
of the Holy Ghost these men upheld wars of extermination and
conquest--I deny it; that under the guidance of the Holy Ghost these
men wrote that it was right for a man to destroy the life of his wife
if she happened to differ with him on the subject of religion--I deny
it.  And yet that is the book now upheld in this creed of the
Congregational Church.  If the devil had written upon the subject of
slavery, which side would he have taken?  Let every minister answer,
honor bright.  If you knew the devil had written a little work on human
slavery, in your judgment would he uphold slavery or denounce it?
Would you regard it as any evidence that he ever wrote it if he upheld
slavery?  And yet, here you have a work upholding slavery, and you say
that it was written by an infinitely good, wise and beneficent God!  Of
the French squad were admirals Duman and Magon, and ship captains Cosmao,
Maistral, Villiegris and Prigny. "Villeneuve Having shown the desire to
leave all Spaniards opposed. The discussion was very lively and heated,
and crossed with Alcalá Galiano Admiral Magon quite harsh words,
resulting in a haul of honor before it put them in peace. Villeneuve
much displeased with our opposition, and in the heat of the discussion
said phrases decomposed to Gravina answered the strongest ... It is
curious efforts of these gentlemen to go to sea in search of a
powerful enemy, when in the battle of Finisterre we left, taking
the chance to win if you will help us in time.

There are other reasons that I explained the council, and that the station
is moving, the most advantageous position for us is to remain at bay,
forcing a deadlock that can not resist, mostly to block if Tolón
and Cartagena.

We must confess with sorrow the superiority of the English navy, for the
perfection of weapons, for the excellent strength of their
vessels, and especially by operating the unit with their squads. We,
people in much less skilled, armed and commanded by an imperfect
boss unhappy at all, we may, however, make war on the defensive within
the bay. But it will be necessary to comply, according to the blind
submission of the Court of Madrid, and marine vessels and put at the
mercy of the plans of Bonaparte, that no change has given us in this
worthy of a head slavery so many sacrifices. Leave, if Villeneuve is
working, but if the results are disastrous, is hereby appropriated
to download our opposition that we have made the foolish project
of the head of the squad combined.

Villeneuve has surrendered to despair, his master had said harsh
things, and the news that he will be relieved to induce him to commit
the greatest follies, hoping one day regain its lost reputation for
victory or death " . So there was the friend of my master. His words
made big impression on me, since being a child, I gave great interest
to those events, and then reading the same story that I witnessed, I
have helped my memory with real data, and I can tell quite accurately.

Churruca When he left, Mrs. Flora and my master made him high praise,
especially praising his expedition to South America, to make a map
of those seas. According to them I heard, the merits of Churruca as wise
and as a seaman were so many that even Napoleon made him a precious
gift and VIP. But let us return to the marine and Doña Flora.
After two days of being there I noticed a phenomenon about which
I disliked, and was the cousin of my clothes started to love me,
that is, that I found her to be Room for Paje . Did not cease to make
any kind of touching, and knowing that I was going to the squadron,
regretted it, vowing that it would be a shame to lose an arm, leg or
some other no less important part of my person, if not lost life.
That outraged me unpatriotic compassion, and even believe I said
some words to express that in the warrior ardor was inflamed.

My saber made to grace the old, and gave me a thousand sweets to
remove bad mood.

The next day forced me to clean, discreet animal, speaking as a theologian
and woke us all morning, yelling: _perro English, inglés_ dog.

Then I took to church, making loading the sidewalk, and the church did
not cease to turn the head to see if I was there. Then I did attend his
toilet, with whose operation I was shocked, watching the catafalque of
curls and bows to the barber armed himself in his head. Noting the
indiscreet stupor with which I contemplate the ability of the teacher,
the real architect of the head, Doña Flora laughed a lot and told me
that instead of thinking of going to the squad should stay
with her for her Paje, adding that learn to be combed, and with the
job of master barber could earn a living and be a real character. I am
not seduced such propositions, and I told him with some rudeness that
I wanted to be soldier barber. This pleased him, and gave him the comb
with the things patriotic and military stepped up their affection towards
me. While there I was treated with care, I confess that I carried no
power over such Doña Flora, and that drained their preferred fineness
of my rude pescozones angry Dona Francisca. It was natural: its
unintended love their dengue, our insistence on calling my company,
saying that he loved to talk and my person, I follow my master
prevented at their visits to board.

He came in so sweet an occupation servant of her cousin, and myself,
without the freedom to run around Cadiz, as would have liked me bored
at home, Doña parrot company Flora and the gentlemen who were there
for the afternoon to say whether or not to leave the squad, and so
fewer hands, but more frivolous. My disgust came to despair when I
came home that Marcial and that he was my master on board, but
definitely not to embark; and when this happened, and when my troubled
soul caressed the still weak hope of being part of that issue, Mrs.
Flora strove to take a ride to the mall and also to pray eve Carmen.
I was unbearable, especially as I dreamed of putting on a brave
performance proyectillo, which consisted of going to visit one of their
own ships, led by a sailor known that he hoped to find in the spring. I
went out with the old, and while passing through the wall deteníame
to see the boats, but could not deliver me to the delights of this
show, by having to answer the thousand questions Doña Flora, which
I was dizzy.

During the ride he was joined by some young lady. Encopetados seemed
well, and people were in fashion in Cadiz, all very discreet and
elegant. One of them was a poet, or rather, did all verses, although
ill, and I think I heard them speak in a certain Academy that met for
their shot stanzas, entertainment that did not harm anyone. As I watched
everything I looked at the strange figure of the men in his effeminate
gestures and, above all, in their costumes, which seemed extravagantísimos.
There were not many people dressed in that manner in Cadiz, and after
thinking about the difference between those who had regular harness and
the people I had ever seen, I realized that was that they wore to
the Spanish, and friends Dona Flora fashion according to the Madrid
and Paris. What first caught my eye was the strangeness of their
sticks, which were twisted around sticks and gruesísimos knots. They
were not looked beard because tapaba tie, a kind of shawl, which give
several laps around the neck and extending to the lips, was a kind
of basket, tray, or rather Bacia resting in the face. The hairstyle was
a tricky disorder, and that comb, it looked like it had been
seasoned with a broom, the tips of the hat I touched the shoulders,
the Casaca of enormous size, almost sweeping the floor with their
skirts, boots ended in a point, from the pockets of his waistcoat
hung a multitude of stamps and trinkets, their calzones are listed
attacking the knee with a huge loop, and that such figures were
complete mamarrachos, all wearing a lens that during the conversation
about repeated Sometimes the right eye, closing the claim, although
entrambos have very good eyes.

"The conversation was about those characters out of the squad, alternating
with this relationship I do not know how to dance or party much praised,
one of them subject to high praise for how well they did with their
light trenzas legs dancing the gavotte. Having chatted a lot, went to
church on Doña Flora del Carmen and there, pulling everyone her rosary,
praying to be a pelaban good space of time, and I applied some of them
bordering on the crown coscorrón one, because instead of so devoutly
pray like them, give too much attention to two flies that hover
around curl hairstyle climax Doña Flora. We left after having heard a
sermon annoying, they celebrated as a masterpiece; walk again, continued
to talk more deeply, because we were joined by some ladies wearing the
same style, and all was armed so noisy algazara of gallantry, phrases
and subtleties, mixed with some dull verse, I can not remember them.
And while my dear master martial and tried to fix a date and time to
move permanently to board!

And I was to stay above ground, subject to the whims of that old
to me with your dull bland honey!

¿Believe that you insisted that that night was to stay forever at your
service?

¿Believe that you said that she loved me and gave me some proof as
affectionate hugs and kisses, ordering it not to tell anyone?
It's horrible contradictions of life!, I thought to myself how it would
have been happier if I had my Amita treated in this way. I embarrassed
to most, I told him I wanted to go to the squad, and when I might
want to return at will, but if not let me do my desire, so much so
aborrecería and stretched out his arms to express an amount very
large loathing. Then came unexpectedly as my master, I tried
the arrival time to achieve my goals through a boot oratory, he had
carefully prepared, I knelt before him, saying in the most pathetic
tone that if I carried on board I am desperate cast into the sea. My
master laughed at the occurrence, his cousin, mimes doing with his
mouth, pretended to some hilarity afeaba face amojamado, and consented
to the order. ANGUAGES thousand sweets to comiese on board, who asked
me to shy away from places of danger, and did not say a word against
my shipment, which was verified the next morning really early. IX-October
was the month, and 18 the day. This date I have no doubt, because
the next day left the squad. We got up early and went to the wharf,
where a waiting boat that led us on board. Figúrense you what
my amazement, what I wonder!, My enthusiasm, my disposition, when I was
about _Santísima Trinidad_, the largest boat world, this wooden
fortress, which was seen by far is in my imagination as a factory
portentous, supernatural, unique monster worthy of the majesty of the
seas.

When our boat passed close to a ship, I looked at some religious awe,
admiration to see such large hooves that seemed so little from the
wall, at other times seemed more guys what my imagination had
wrought. The restless excitement possessed me that I was exposed to
falling into water with rapture when contemplating a figurehead from
the bow, just another object that fascinated me any attention. At last
we arrived at _Trinidad_. As we approached, the forms of that colossus
iban increasing, and when the boat was on the side, confused in
the area of sea where it was planned, in which black and horrible
glass, the shadow of the ship, sank when I saw how still in the hull
hitting the water gently to the dark side, lift the eye and when I saw
the three rows of guns threatening their mouths hovering by the
doors, my enthusiasm was cut into fear, púseme pale, ran out and grabbed
the arm movement my master. But when we went up and I found myself on
deck, I widened the heart. The graceful and high rigging, animation
of the fortress, the view of the sky and the bay, the admirable order
of all objects occupying the cover from coys [4] posts in a row
on the play dead, to winches, pumps, hoses , hatches, and the variety
of uniforms, all in order, so I stayed, for a while I was absorbed
in contemplation of such a beautiful machine, without remembering
anything else. [Note 4: "coisa" in the original (N. E.)] The present
can not take care of those magnificent ships, or less than _Santísima
Trinidad_ by poor prints that have been represented.

Nor anything resembling a ship warriors of today, covered with its
heavy iron harness, long, monotonous black and highly visible
accidents in its vast area, so I found some huge floating coffins.

Created by a positivist era, and appropriate to the science of nautical
and military these days, with the steam that has canceled the maneuvers,
fiando the success of combat power and thrust of the ships, the boats
of today are mere machines of war, while at that time were the same
warrior, armed with all weapons of attack and defense, but relying mainly
on his skill and courage.

I note that I respect, I have always had the habit of linking to an
extreme exaggeration, ideas pictures, things with people, even in the
most inasociables categories. Displaying later called Gothic cathedrals
of our Castile and Flanders, and noting how impressive your majesty
highlights factory complex and subtle taste among modern buildings,
erected by the utility, such as banks, hospitals and barracks, no
unless I could bring to mind the various classes of ships that I've
seen in my long life, and I compared the old Gothic cathedrals.

Form, which extends upward, and the predominance of vertical lines on
the horizontal; some inexplicable idealism, some historical and religious
at the same time, mixed with the appearance of lines and colors of the
game that combines your whim sun have given this bizarre association,
which I explained by traces of romance in the spirit leaving
the impressions of childhood. _Santísima Trinidad_ The ship was one
of four bridges. The largest of the world were of three. That colossus,
built in Havana, with the richest woods Cuba in 1769 counted thirty-six
years of honorable service. Was 220 feet (61 meters) in length,
ie stern to bow, 58 foot beam (width), and strut 28 (height from the
keel to the deck), so unusual that there was no vessel of the world .
His powerful frame, which was a real forest, supported four floors. At
the sides, which were very strong wooden walls, were built to open holes
116 when it renovated, nice in 1796, it opened 130 gunships and again
in 1805, was on their side, when I saw him, 140 fire hydrants,
including cannons and carrion. The interior was great for the
distribution of the various compartments, as were bridges to the
artillery, plaice for the crews, lockers for storage of food, cameras
for heads, kitchens, nursing and other services. I was engrossed
touring the galleries and other caches that Escorial of the seas. The
cameras were located aft a small palace on the inside, and out of a
great fortress, with balconies, flags of the aft corners like a castle
torch ogival were as large cages open to the sea, and where the hearing
could go three quarters of the horizon. There is nothing greater than
the rigging, masts those giant, launched into the sky as a challenge
to the storm. It seemed that the wind did not have strength to
push her big GAVI.

The hearing was lost mareaba and contemplating the vast skein that were
aloft in the shrouds, are, arm, gross, halyard and topping lift
that served to sustain and move the sails. I was absorbed in the
contemplation of so much wonder, when I felt a strong blow to the
neck. I thought the mast had fallen over me. I returned the light and
launched a stunned exclamation of horror at seeing a man who threw me
the ears as if to get up in the air. He was my uncle. "What you're
looking for here, earthworm - told me in the gentle tone that was
unusual -. Want to learn the craft? Hey, Juan - added by going to a
sailor of ferocious aspect - this underemploy Galapagos cock for a
couple walk around it. "As I could circumvent the commitment to walk
the yard, and explained as Courtesy find the service of D. Alonso
Gutiérrez de Cisniega, had come on board with him. Three or four sailors,
friends of my nice uncle wanted batter, so I decided to get away
from such a distinguished company, and I left the camera in search
of my master.

The officers were touched her, no less difficult than on land on board,
and when I saw the pajes powder employed in the heads of the heroes
who served me asked if this operation was not the least intention within
a vessel, where all moments are precious and the way in which everything
that is not of immediate necessity for the service. But it was the
fashion then as far as Tirana, and even at that time imposed a way
of pressing their irritating absurdities. Until the soldier had to use
precious time in taking the Coleto. Poor men! I saw posts in a row one
after the other, fixing the Coleto each of which was in front, who
finished the half ingenious operation in a short time. Encasquetaban
then fur hat, heavy mole, whose purpose I could never explain, and
then went to their jobs if they had to watch, or hang out if the
combo-free service. The sailors did not wear that ridiculous hair appendix,
and it seems to me that simple dress has not changed much since then.
In the chamber, my master spoke heatedly with the ship's captain, Don
Francisco Javier de Uriarte, and with the head of Squad, Don Baltasar
Hidalgo de Cisneros. As I heard recently, I had no doubt that the French
General had given orders to exit the next morning. This was very happy
to Martial, who along with other sailors in the old castle bow, speak
pompous on the next battle. This company pleased me more than my uncle's
interesting because the Members of the Middle-man jokes are not
allowed heavy to me. The only difference was to understand the diverse
origins of the crew, because while some sailors were purebred, carried
enrollment there by hook or volunteer, other people were leva, often
lazy, maverick, of evil habits, evil knows the business. With the
first I was best friends with the latter, and attended all the conferences
Marcial. If you do not fear to weary the reader, we refer the explanation
that he gave the diplomatic and political causes of war, to paraphrase
the most comical way possible what I had heard a few nights before
mouth Malespina my masters at home. He knew that my boyfriend Amita
had embarked on. All conference ended in a single point, the
next battle.

The squad had to leave the next day, what a pleasure! Browse giant in
that boat, the largest in the world, to witness a battle in the midst
of the seas; see how the battle was, how they shot the guns, how they
seized enemy ships ... What a beautiful party!, Cadiz and then covered
with glory ... Anyone want to hear me say: "I was in the squad,
I saw everything ', I say to Amit, telling the grand scene, and
excited their attention, your curiosity, your interest ... also say:
"I found at the sites of greatest danger, and therefore no shaking ',
see how they change, how pale and startled to hear mention the horrors
of combat, and then look with disdain at those who say: We count,
Gabrielito, that something so terrible !...» Oh, this was more than he
needed to drive my imagination ... I say frankly that I am not in that
day had changed by Nelson. 19 Dawn, which was for me Felicísimo and had
not yet dawned when I was in the palace of stern with my master,
who wanted to witness the maneuver. Baldeo after the operation began.
It raised large GAVI, and the heavy windlass, turning with his sharp
chirping, the powerful anchor started the bottom of the bay. Sailors
were the cock, the other handling arms, open to the boatswain's
voice and all voices of the ship, before moving, filling the air
with frightful racket.

The whistles, the bell bow, the discordant concert thousand human voices
mixed with the grit of the blocks, the crack of the rope, the mop of
candles before lashing sticks fill moved by the wind, all these different
sounds accompanied the first steps of the colossal ship.
Only a few years ago there
was no parson too ignorant to successfully answer Charles Darwin; and
the more ignorant he was the more cheerfully he undertook the task.  He
was held up to the ridicule, the scorn, and the contempt of the
Christian world, and yet when he died England was proud to put his dust
with that of her noblest and her grandest.

Charles Darwin conquered the intellectual world, and the doctrine of
evolution is now an accepted fact.  His light has broken in on some of
the early clergy, and the greatest man who today occupies the pulpit is
a believer in the evolution theory of Charles Darwin--and that is Henry
Ward Beecher--a man of more brains than the entire clergy of that
entire church put together.  - Are you Lucifer - he repeated Don Cleophas.
- This is demon owners and squires - the voice replied. - Are you
Satan? - Student continued. - That's daemon tailors and butchers -
became the voice repetille. - Are you Bercebú - Don Cleophas preguntalle
again. And the voice respondelle: - daemon tahures That is, de
facto and roads. - Are you Barabbas [87] Belial , Astarot - finally
told the student. - These are major occupations of demons - the voice
replied -: devil more often myself, but I get around: I am the fleas
of hell, the gossip [ 88], the entanglement, usury, the mohatra, I
saraband truje to the world [89], the déligo [90], the Chacona [91],
the bullicuzcuz [92], the tickle of capone [93], the guiriguirigay
the zambapalo the Marion, the avilipinti, chicken, wares, brother
Bartolo, the carcañal, the Guinea, Colorín Colorado [94], I invented the
pandorgas [95]; jácaras the [96], the papalatas [97], the HOWTOs [98]
the dead [99], the puppets [100], the Volatín [101], the saltambancos
[102], the maesecorales [103], and finally, I call the Devil Cojuelo.
- To say that - said the student - would have saved the rest: vues
me know thanks for your server, there are many days that you wanted
to know. But do not tell me, sir Cojuelo Devil, why you put this
name, unlike the others, all having fallen from so high, that might
be all in the same way and with the same name [104] -- Yo, Mr. Don
Cleophas Leandro Perez dive, you already know yours, or yours -
Cojuelo said - because we have been neighbors for that gallant lady
who and who has run the justice tonight, and who then count wonders,
my name because I was so stressed the first of which was erected in
the rebellion [105] heaven, and those who fell and all [106], and
others were on me, spoil me, and ansi I was further noted that all of
God's hand and feet of all devils, and to this nickname, but not
least agile for all the factions are in the Netherlands, where I have
never been printed ago, before I advance to all, that road to hell,
so the lame walk like the wind [107], although I have never been more
without that reputation now in the hands of this vinegar, for whom
treatment [108] gave me my fellow, because he brought to all retortero
[109], as the saying of Castile, and every moment to the more acute
given by demon cat.
I keep going back to this book; I keep going back to the miracles, to
the prophecies, to the fables, and people ask me, if I take away the
bible, what are we going to do?  How can we get along without the
revelation that no one understands?  What are we going to do if we have
no bible to quarrel about?  What are we to do without hell?  What are
we going to do with our enemies? What are we going to do with the
people we love but don't like? They tell me that there never would have
been any civilization if it had not been for this bible.  Um!  The Jews
had a bible; the Romans had not.  Which had the greater and the grander
government?  Let us be honest.  Which of those nations produced the
greatest poets, the greatest soldiers, the greatest orators, the
greatest statesmen, the greatest sculptors?  Rome had no bible.  God
cared nothing for the Roman Empire.  He let the men come up by chance.
His time was taken up by the Jewish people. And yet Rome conquered the
world, and even conquered God's chosen people.  The people that had the
bible were defeated by the people who had not.  How was it possible for
Lucretius to get along without the bible?  How did the great and
glorious of that empire?  And what shall we say of Greece?  No bible.
Compare Athens with Jerusalem.  From Athens comes the beauty and
intellectual grace of the world.  Compare the mythology of Greece with
the mythology of Judea.  One covering the earth with beauty, and the
other filling heaven with hatred and injustice.  The Hindoos had no
bible; they had been forsaken by the creator, and yet they became the
greatest metaphysicians of the world.  Egypt had no bible.  Compare
even Egypt with Judea.  What are we to do without the bible?  What
became of the Jews who had no bible; their temple was destroyed and
their city was taken; and, as I said before, they never found real
prosperity until their God deserted them.  Do without the bible?

Now I come again to the new testament.  There are a few things in
there, I give you my word, I cannot believe.  I cannot--I cannot
believe in the miraculous origin of Jesus Christ.  I believe He was the
son of Joseph and Mary; that Joseph and Mary had been duly and legally
married; that He was the legitimate offspring of that marriage, and
nobody ever believed the contrary until He had been dead 150 years.
Neither Matthew, Mark nor Luke ever dreamed that He was of divine
origin.  He did not say to either Matthew, Mark or Luke, or to any one
in their hearing, that He was the son of God, or that He was
miraculously conceived.  He did not say it.  The angel Gabriel, who,
they say, brought the news, never wrote a word upon the subject.  His
mother never wrote a word upon the subject.  His father never wrote a
word upon the subject.  We are lacking in the matter of witnesses.  I
would not believe it now!  I cannot believe it then.  I would not
believe people I know, much less would I believe people I don't know.
I say that at that time Matthew, Mark and Luke believed that He was the
son of Joseph and Mary.  And why?  They say He descended from the blood
of David, and in order to show that He was of the blood of David they
gave the genealogy of Joseph.  And if Joseph was not his father, why
not give the genealogy of Pontius Pilate or Herod?  It's so picturesque
verlumpt. I can not look enough. (He looks through the simple lorgnette
and pushes to the left eye.) Woman. He has a seriously Aug on me, but
's it prints to others. Dumont. You were probably married? Woman.
Already more than thirty years. Dumont. And trouble is your husband is
still around you? Woman. Ah yes. He hit me hard working yet. Dumont.
He Slager you? O! It's nice to nick him. Weib. Ah, it's been nice of
him. The stop is in the mountains in our custom. A poor household, where
s' do not fight. Dumont. The innocent joys of nature. From this since
the image must be made even more beautiful. Rise to get there. I want
you to see from afar gans. Weib. Listen S 'on! What do S 'for me now?
If S 'me forty years ago angschaut. Now I am already an old woman.
Dumont. That just makes your beauty from. You be splendidly old. Au
contraire, you will have more wrinkles. Weib. Why not. My husband's
already too much. Dumont. You truly be from the Dutch school. Weib. Ah
beleib. I've never even gone into the school. Dumont. Ick hab a whole
collection of these old wives at home. Weib. Now ists recht. The gathering,
the old women, and the others would be happy if they s' losbringeten.
Dumont (takes a small black round mirror from the bag, turns around and
lets the area reflect). O quel contraste! The castle! The woods! The
woman! The steers on the corridor! O Nature, Nature! You be great
without end. Weib. The man must be narrisch. Now, he looks in mirror
and sees bullocks drin. Dumont. Here you have a ducat.

Now I have you seen enough. (Is it a gold piece.) Woman (livid pleased).
Ah spectacle! Ah spectacle! now he gives me even a ducat. Your
Grace, this is z'viel, I trust him to me not to take. For what? say S
'just me. Dumont. Your sight has given me much pleasure gives. Woman.
No, it hätt my life is not believed that I was in my old days should
still make money sehn. Thank vieltausendmal. (Kissed his hand.) Graces
your pardon S'- I ask you - I really gfallen you? Dumont (must laugh).
Oh, you liked me extremely. Weib (bashfully). Listen S 'on. They were
an old woman completely crazy making. No, when my husband read the
erschlagt me tonight out of pure joy. I sags halt. Once was quite
nice and it is still so old, it still remains a Allweiler bissel was
left. (From Trippelt.) Dumont (looks after her). Ha! how it varies. As
an old swan! I be so excited that I liked every object. Previous sixth
appearance. Rosa wants to relax with a coffee crockery into the garden.
Dumont. Ah ma belle Rosa! Rosa. Good morning, Mr. Chevalier! Dumont
(she holds up). O, you do not come so quickly from me. The Alt's
charming, but the young, but I like even better. The painting of his of
Aug, his painting for the heart. Rosa. Mr. Chevalier, I've no time, the
gracious Lord wants to drink more coffee. Dumont. Ah! Ros Beautiful
'! (Includes it tenderly.) Rosa (winds los). Ah what generos. What I
have from your generosity. I have in the garden beyond. Dumont. O,
you may not. I ENCHANTÉ to be. The cheek! The eyes! This moment! O
nature, what you have created because I can sexpt not included. I need
you embrasser. Rosa. Mr. Chevalier, let me go, or I write. Dumont. I
want the moon seal. (Will they kiss, she cries and makes the coffee
covered dish.) Previous Seventh appearance. Flottwell and Wolf from
the garden. Flottwell. He, he, Mr. Chevalier! What are you doing there?
Dumont. I bewundre of nature! Flottwell. Bravo! You extend your
love of nature to the highest and the most common objects. Wolf.
Beautiful or ugly, this is the very same Mr. Chevalier. Dumont.
What do you say because of ugliness!

The nature of the highest poetry, and true poetry can never be common
nor ugly. I want to apologize for her beauty beat, beat, and let; ick
and fall, so the world write to me to my grave: it sleep under this
stone Chevalier Dumont here all alone, He has only made the Cour on
earth of the heavenly nature. Now that Welch glücklick tot lot! He ruhn
in the bosom lover And will he return in the sky, naturally welcome.
(Is proudly off to the castle.) Rosa (read the dishes together).
Horrible! Allen intrusiveness is exposed you in this house. Flottwell.
Soft you from the guests when they drank champagne. I am very dissatisfied
with you, Mr. Wolf has also complains that you are very naughty to him
and without respect of me talking. Rosa. The gracious Mr. valet? Ah, now
I must speak - Wolf (fine). That is not you, my child, you should only
provide your service. Rosa. I stand with the Lord in gnädgen services
and not for some people. Wolf. Schweig only - Rosa. No, I will hide
nothing. Everything must work out. Wolf. What wickedness! Flottwell.
Quiet! the matter becomes serious. Rosa. Graces your knowledge of
what the valet said? Flottwell. What did he say? Rosa. He said - (Valentin
quickly.) Valentin. The jewelry is here. Flottwell. Ah bravo! Only
speed to my room. (Go fast.) (The jeweler enters from the side,
and) Wolf (leading him into the castle, before he says to Rosa). We are,
Mamsell. (Ab) Rosa (stands as petrifies). As I stand now! Valentin. As
it now stands. Rosa. To whom should I miss my anger? Valentin. Wait,
I'll get thee whom. (Will Forte). Rosa. You stay! To thee do I want
revenge, you fateful man. (Goes to him.) Valentin. To me? That was'
me. I've got nothing to say than: The jeweler is here. Rosa. Still is!
or - (rubs and will give him a slap in the face, but is suddenly
weak.) Woe to me! I take the blow. Valentin.

This is a stroke of luck, otherwise it would have taken me. Rosa
(jumps). The jeweler should hingehn where the pepper grows. Valentin.
It can tell him yourself. I do not know where he grows. Rosa. Hush! I
know I'm not to that extent. Valentin. Nu swear only to the jeweler
you will already hold. Rosa. Just go out of my eyes (do as they want to
scratch out his eyes), you're to blame for everything! Valentin. I've
got nothing gsagt as: The jeweler is here. Rosa. That's just your crimes.
You should have nothing to say, if you see that my virtue to
the point is to defend its rights. (Ab) Valentin. That is terrible.
There may indeed still have so many Vices, so you can not have much more
increase than those of their unfortunate virtue. And I know I am
guilty of nothing. I have only grad can crack the code to find out what
this is a crime: If one says that the jewelry is here! (Ab) Eighth
appearance Verwandlung Short Cabinet Flott Wells. Through the
windows you can see in a colonnade and through them to the outside.
Flottwell and take a jeweler. Flottwell (very happily.). Where did
you see the jewelry? Enter, I am already as a child! How will first look
Amalie! Jeweler. Here it is! Flottwell (besieht him and will seriously).
My God, what have you done? Jeweler. Why? Flottwell. So I can not do
it! Jeweler. He is after your claim that Mr. gnädger! Flottwell
(is always fierce).

No, no! he is not! jeweler. Bring to the drawing, I can assure you!
Flottwell. No, no, no, no. (Mißmutig.) He is too old-fashioned, well
it's not the stones, which I selected. Jewelers. Lord of Flottwell!
this concerns my honor. Flottwell. The I also, I can not do the
jewelry. Jewelers. I take him back. Flottwell. You have to. Jewelers.
I want to change it. Flottwell. Too late. He is a gift to heutgen
celebration. You have my most joy to me murdered by their awkwardness.
Juwelier (slightly offended). Lord of Flottwell - (Holds itself) I
can assure you, it's just a cricket. Flottwell. Make me not, the jewelry
is bad. Jewelers. Consider him only. Flottwell. No, he is against me so
that I do the window could throw. Jewelers. This you will probably
leave to remain, I think! Flottwell. I will not. Because it is! (Hurls
him out the window.) Jewelers (frightened). Ums heaven's sake! the jewelry
is two thousand dollars, Flottwell (proud). Are you scared? Rag money!
They should get it! Wait! (He hurries into the cabinet.) Jeweler. This
is a madness to me has not yet occurred. I get the jewelry come in!
(Expires.) (One sees the beggar in front of the window, which has abolished
the jewelry, it keeps to the sky and sings.) Beggars. Habt thank you
thank you good people, so abundant that it presented me, My heart
is yes prey of sorrow, Through own guilt, I am hurt. (He moves away
from the columns and repeat the last words in the distance.) Jewelers
(dismayed comes back). The jewelry is gone, I find him not.
(Flottwell from the Cabinet. He has brought contemplation, and his
demeanor shows that he regretted his ferocity, and their shame. He
wears two rolls of gold.) Flottwell (edel friendly). Here you have
your money, sir! Jeweler (like). Lord of Flottwell, I am very sorry -
Flottwell. They regret nothing - To me, the regret of my unforgivable
violence. My blood plays me some great string. I have to leave next Ader
days. Jewelers. A kind word makes everything well again. Flottwell
(pushes him a good hand). Not true, you do not take it amiss, my dear
friend - and you forget it - you never speak of it?

I wish not to say that you want to tell it somewhere. Jewelers. I'll give
my word of honor - Flottwell. Yes, yes, I know I can rely entirely
on you. Also werd ich Your art certainly very soon again take to
complete. Certainly, certainly, I will order something soon leave.
Very soon. And now, goodbye, my friend, and no grudges. Juwelier (with
a deep bow). How can I, I am so deeply touched. (The departure). If
only he soon would make something! (Ab) Flottwell (alone). A storm
moving day! If he is already over. (Throws himself in front of
hinstarrend in a chair.) (In the distance the sound of the last
verses of singing beggar.) Beggars. My heart will always be prey of
sorrow, Through own guilt, I am hurt. Flottwell (jumps up). Welch
song - (wolf occurs.) Wolf. Gnädger Ah, dearest Lord! How did the jeweler
but his ill-made thing, I've just ausgezankt him. But make sure that
the jewelry is gone, and nobody wants to have it repealed. Flottwell.
That would be me very unlieb - because it costs a lot. Wolf. He must
find, I saw him fly out the window. Anyone I respected in the vicinity
of the chamber as a girl Rosa. I immediately hurries down because she
was gone, and when I inquired, they would not have seen.
Flottwell. I can not believe it. Wolf. One must investigate the matter
be. Flottwell. Just not today. That makes too much fuss, and
then who knows ists true. Wolf. Certainly, I've almost seen. Flottwell.
If it is true, it must continue, otherwise I do not wish doom.
Wolf. As the sky but often leaves the people! It's been everything
to prepare the feast, the guests are gathered in the garden room. I
have the beautiful view from the valley with Traperien can impose.
We want to wait until the sun goes down, and if they suddenly
disappear, it will give an impressive sight. Flottwell. Are the
dancers already preparing? Wolf. Yes. The Lord President is also here.
Flottwell. Amalie here! What do you say this only now? Wolf. I have
them in the blue room, which, but Baron is gone after the garden.
Flottwell (ascend). The Baron? Shameful that my rival yet to ask
guests must. What should I do now Amalien worship, the jewelry is gone.
Wolf. Give her the precious vase that you bought first, but this is a
gift, one that is worthy of Millionaires. Flottwell. It is of great
value, but just right, the President is a friend of the arts. Maybe
it is gaining das Wolf (for themselves). Since you are mistaken.
Flottwell. Let them decorate with flowers, in short, everything besorgs.
I will say to her, to her .-- (Both from.) Ninth appearance transformation
into a noble chamber. The President of Klugheim and Amalie. Klugheim.
Calm but thee, my daughter, and let me not regret that I was so weak,
your request down. Amalienburg (their pain). Yes, my father, I want
quiet.

Klugheim. Now I see only me, thou hast deceived by erzwungne cheerfulness.
You should see him again. Amalienburg. On the contrary, my father,
it is a long time to strengthen myself, my suffering to endure.
Klugheim. Do not forget that we in society are that you and the Baron
more than his love life. Zehnter Previous appearance. Flottwell.
Flottwell (with warmth). My venerable Mr. President! The highest favor,
which I could gain from luck, is the honor to welcome to my castle.
Holdes My lady! Flottwell will never forget that your noble heart
is not spurned, his little festival queen to be. Amalie (the bow). Lord
of Flottwell - Klugheim. Enough of the ceremony. It is the friend for
a friend. Flottwell. Is that really so, Mr. President? Klugheim. You
doubt it? Then it would be only half way. Flottwell. Oh, how eagerly
I wish that it would be quite so! That I you - Klugheim (fine). Mr.
Flottwell of any failure on previous relationships is against the
condition under which I have today had accepted the invitation.
Amalienburg. Best's father, let it soften! If your life is something
your child. Klugheim. What should it be? Is a conspiracy against me in
the works? , I found myself hieher loaded in order to renew one thing
that I did quit for? Flottwell. You are wrong, Mr. President. Miss your
daughter - Klugheim. If a Schwärmerin. Happiness of your life is
familiar to me from God, and nobody can verargen it to me when I'm not
in the arms of her unhappiness lead. Flottwell. Mr. President, you
misjudge me too much. Klugheim. I can see clearly what you once only
the future will reveal. Flottwell. I'm vilified. Klugheim. By nobody -
(Flitterstein opens the door.) Flottwell.

Through the cunning Flitterstein Baron - Baron Flitterstein
(with astonishment, without the decency to injure). Here is the
speech from me? Flottwell (striking). No - Flitterstein (gathers
himself and smiles fine). Ah so. So from a relative of mine. I wanted
to know only as a gentleman. Flottwell (embarrassed). Mr Baron! I am
delighted - Flitterstein (fast). I understand. My friendship
with the President - Flottwell. If the cause is that you give me the
honor of your visit gift. I am informed of everything. (After a
pause, by which the embarrassment of announcing.) Is it now go to the
society to go? Flitterstein. Please yourself. Flottwell (last Amalien
the arm). My lady! (Does it continue.) (Flitterstein follows.)
Klugheim. I fear that we have the pleasure and the displeasure called
our doors open. (Ab) Eleventh appearance transformation Herrlich
flowers with gold and decorated garden room. The rear wall tastefully
traperiert. All guests are gathered. Nobel dressed lords and ladies.
Dumont. Walter. While the choir joined the president, Flitterstein, and
Amalie Flottwell and reset itself. Wolf. Choir. Froh raptured guests
Wallen Through the richly decorated halls. Will the desire to shine
marry, they must Flott Wells castle itself choose. Only emblazoned
in its halls, What the Heart trunkne required. (Dancers in Spanish
costumes lead a delightful dance, and at the end formed an impressive
group, in which children in the same costumes, the vase with flowers
on a round pedestal in the middle of the theater are.)

Flottwell (for themselves). What has made wolf but now they should
not receive it. Klugheim. Look, Baron, the famous vase, which a Frenchman
to the Minister by twenty thousand francs offered. Flitterstein.
Truly, yes it is. Several guests (see it). Really beautiful! Walter.
Sehn you but here, Chevalier, the vase from Paris. Dumont (hingeworfen
in a chair without looking). O charming! You very außerordentlick.
Walter. You have not even viewed. Dumont. Ick, they need to see
even nick, ick just need to hear de Paris, can hardly be otherwise as
a nick magnific. Flitterstein. Verily, you are to this work of art to
be envied, Mr. von Flottwell. Flottwell (for themselves). Now I can
not go back. (Laut.) It is no longer my property. An insignificant
gift that I am the queen of the feast pond. Amalienburg (pleased). Oh
Father! how pleased I am das Klugheim (strict). Not yet, my child!
Excuse me, Mr. von Flottwell that I will not. The gift here is too
precious to it. Flitterstein. Yes, yes, it is too precious.
Flottwell. That is not, my Lord Baron. The world enjoys no jewel,
which would be precious to him that Miss gift to offer.
I want you to know that the men who founded this great and glorious
government are there.  The most of the men who fought in the
Revolutionary War and wrested from the clutch of Great Britain this
continent; have been rewarded by the eternal wrath of God.  The old
Revolutionary soldiers are in hell by the thousands.  Let the preachers
have the courage to say so.  The men who fought in 1812, and gave to
the United States the freedom of the seas, nearly all of them have been
damned since 1815--all that were killed.  The greatest of heroes, they
are there.  The greatest of poets, the greatest scientists, the men who
have made the world beautiful and grand, they are all, I tell you,
among the damned, if this creed is true.  Humboldt, who shed light, and
who added to the intellectual wealth of mankind, Goethe, and Schiller,
and Lessing, who almost created the German language--all gone!  All
suffering the wrath of God tonight, and every time an angel thinks of
one of those men he gives his harp an extra twang.

La Place, who read the heaven like an open book--he is there. Robert
Burns, the poet of human love--he is there because he wrote the "Prayer
of Holy Willie;"  because he fastened upon the cross the Presbyterian
creed, and made a lingering crucifixion. And yet that man added to the
tenderness of human heart. Dickens, who put a shield of pity before the
flesh of childhood God is getting even with him.  Our own Ralph Waldo
Emerson, although he had a thousand opportunities to hear Methodist
clergymen, scorned the means of grace, and the Holy Ghost is delighted
that he is in hell tonight.

Longfellow refined hundreds and thousands of homes, but he did not
believe in the miraculous origin of the Savior.  No, sir; he doubted
the report of Gabriel.  He loved his fellow-men; he did what he could
to free the slaves; he did what he could to make mankind happy; but God
was just waiting for him.  He had His constable right there.  Thomas
Paine, the author of the "Rights of Man," offering his life in both
hemispheres for the freedom of the human race, and one of the founders
of the Republic--it has often seemed to me that if we could get God's
attention long enough to point Him to the American flag, He would let
him out. Compte, the author of the "Positive Philosophy," who loved his
fellow-men to that degree that he made of humanity a God, who wrote his
great work in poverty, with his face covered with tears--they are
getting their revenge on him now.  Voltaire, who abolished torture in
France; who did more for human liberty than any other man, living or
dead; who was the assassin of superstition, and whose dagger still
rusts in the heart of Catholicism--all the priests who have been
translated have their happiness increased by looking at Voltaire.
Glorious country where the principal occupation is watching the
miseries of the lost.  Geordani Bruno, Benedict Spinoza, Diderot, the
encyclopedist, who endeavored to get all knowledge in a small compass
so that he could put the peasant on an equality with the prince
intellectually; the man who wished to sow all over the world the seeds
of knowledge; who loved to labor for mankind. While the priests wanted
to burn, he did all he could to put out the fire--he has been lost
long, long ago.  His cry for water has, become so common that his voice
is now recognized through all the realms of hell, and they say to one
another, "That is Diderot."  David Hume, the philosopher, he is there
with the rest.

Beethoven, the Shakespeare of music, he has been lost, and Wagner, the
master of melody, and who has made the air of this world rich forever,
he is there, and they have better music in hell than in heaven.

Shelley, whose soul, like his own skylark, was a winged joy--he has
been damned for many, many years; and Shakespeare, the greatest of the
human race, who has done more to elevate mankind than all the priests
who ever lived and died--he is there; and all the founders of
Inquisitions, the builders of dungeons, the makers of chains, the
inventors of instruments of torture, tearers, and burners, and branders
of human flesh, stealers of babes and sellers of husbands, and wives,
and children, the drawers of the swords, of persecution, and they who
kept the horizon lurid with the fagot's flame for a thousand
years--they are in heaven tonight. Well, I wish heaven joy of such
company.

And that is the doctrine with which we are polluting the souls of
children.  That is the doctrine that puts a fiend by their dying bed
and a prophesy of hell over every cradle.  That is "glad tidings of
great joy."  Only a little while ago, when the great flood came upon
the Ohio, sent by him who is ruling in the world and paying particular
attention to the affairs of nations, just in the gray of the morning
they saw a house floating down, and on its top a human being; and a few
men went out to the rescue in a little boat, and they found there a
mother, a woman, and they wanted to rescue her, and she said:  "No, I
am going to stay where I am.  I have three dead babes in this house."
Think of a love so limitless, stronger and deeper than despair and
death, and yet the Christian religion says that if that woman did not
happen to believe in their creed, God would send that mother's soul to
eternal fire.  If there is another world, and if in heaven they wear
hats, when such a woman climbs up the opposite bank of the Jordan,
Christ should lift His to her.

That is the trouble I had with this Christian religion--its infinite
heartlessness; and I cannot tell them too often that during our last
war Christians who knew that if they were shot they would go right to
heaven, went and hired wicked men to take their places, perfectly
willing the men should go to hell, provided they could stay at home.
You see they are not honest in it; they do not believe it, or, as the
people say, "They don't sense it;"  they have not religion enough to
conceive what it is they believe and what a terrific falsehood they
assert.  And I beg of every one who hears me tonight, I beg, I implore,
I beseech you never give another dollar to build a church in which that
lie is preached.  Never give another cent to send a missionary with his
mouth stuffed with that falsehood to a foreign land.  Why, they say,
the heathen will go to heaven anyway if you let them alone; what is the
use of sending them to hell by enlightening them.  Let them alone.  The
idea of going and telling a man a thing that if he does not believe he
will be damned, when the chances are ten to one that he won't believe
it. Don't tell him, and as quick as he gets to the other world and
finds it necessary to believe, he will say "yes."  Give him a chance.

My objection to the Christian religion is that it destroys human love,
and tells you and me that the love of your dear-ones is not necessary
in this world to make a heaven in the next.  No matter about your wife,
your children, your brother, your sister--no matter about all the
affections of the human heart--when you get there you will be alone
with the angels.  I don't know whether I would like the angels.  I
don't know whether the angels would like me.  I would rather stand by
the folks who have loved me and whom I know; and I can conceive of no
heaven without the love of this earth.  That is the trouble with the
Christian religion; leave your father, leave your mother, leave your
wife, leave your children, leave everything and follow Jesus Christ.  I
will not. I will stay with the folks.  I will not sacrifice on the
altar of a selfish fear all the grandest and noblest promptings of my
heart.  You do away with human love, and what are we without it? What
would we be in another world, and what would we be here without it?
Can any one conceive of music without human love? Human love builds
every home--human love is the author of all the beauty in this world.
Love paints every picture, and chisels every statue; love, I tell you,
builds every fireside.  What would heaven be without love?  And yet
that is what we are promised--a heaven with your wife lost, your mother
lost, some of your children gone.  And you expect to be made happy by
falling in with some angel.

Such a religion is demoralizing; and how are you to get there? On the
efforts of another.  You are to be perpetually a heavenly pauper, and
you will have to admit through all eternity that you never would have
got here if you hadn't got frightened.  "I am here," you will say, "I
have these wings, I have this musical instrument, because I was
scared." The irrational form is used to mirror an irrational being
outside all the conditioning of reality. Not only the physical appearances
of the opera Mozart: plot, characters, series of external events
are the illusionistic understood inconceivable. The musical form
most of all: the outpouring of emotion by monodramatische Gesangsarie,
the simultaneous interlocking weaving of voices in the ensemble, the
number of different, only the contrast and increasing effect of
the musical expression developed Finale buildings - all of
this together was an art, to which any rational debt had to be
sarcasm. Here was the highest possible freedom of the creative mind,
completely overcoming the material matter that mere contemplation of
the game free fantasy forces, a perfect idealistic world transfigured
as a symbol of the real. So here were the big ideas of the time moving
humanity: the problems of the liberation of the personality presented
to elementary human-types of Figaro, Don Juan, Cosi fan tutte-sphere.
Thus, in the Magic Flute as part of a children's game, the goal of
all humanitarian culture: the unification of humanity through friendship,
love and wisdom magnificent performance in the art market. The next time,
never the unique nature of Mozart musicians misunderstood. Nobody
has the genius of Mozart and deeper sense of reverence as Wagner had.
But the form of Mozart's opera, this free design of the unreal, improbable,
appeared to him imperfect, imperfect had him appear - just because
of the properties, through the appreciation of Mozart's naked Musikertum
also the size of its cultural artists shank determined. The romance
is believed Urbestimmung on the opera, on the basis of the genus
artbestimmenden disregard them. She tried the opera to take, what its
nature rooted: the character of the game. They tried this on heiterster
sense of tension, on appeal of the liveliest images that charming
fantasy of feeling emotion-based art form to give what you never within
their own immediate impact area was the religious consecration of the
great drama. The essence of the opera as a dramatic appearance is based
on conscious improbability on parodical attitude towards all realities.
Even the reforms Gluck, wrongly as viewed preparations for Wagner,
were the basic character of the opera as a genre untouched. They
referred only to the greater prominence of the lyrical musical effects
for vocals, virtuoso effects. Whether serious or amusing, whether
tragic or comic opera, which was indifferent to the opinion of the
type from which Mozart's opera as the perfect summary of all forces
hervorwuchs.

This lyrical Erosspiel was fantastic in all of his conditioning system
product of the Renaissance, trained by people whose sensually
imaginative and sensitive nature is a new field for their sensualistischen
Spieltrieb found. The attempt of this genre of game to pave the way for
the ritual drama of the ancient world, meant not only a new Mißdeutung
of antiquity, nor disfiguring than the classical smoothed ancient
concept of idealism. He meant the unwahrhaftige Theatralisierung cultic
things, their reduction to good opera props and effects, thus, the wrong
Superelevation itself organically into a closed art form by the
increasing enthusiasm for the dramatic affect. The romantic form of
musical drama, as it is in the theory is with regard to the nature of
the genus, the complete Mozart in the opera seems a Abirrung the
opera to areas outside the character of the genus, and on which they
could never take root. Insofar as works of this kind in the width as
in Wagner effect, the effect is based in truth but in the character of
the opera.

He is also in the musical drama just seems to overcome them and live
there, where it is the living testament effect. But he lives under a
false name and false assessment of his being. In this false pretense
values lies the danger of the heritage of the romantic opera for the
present. It is first of all, the impossibility of the opera as a form
of cultic drama consciously clear. It is at the same time, the wrong
disdain Triebes of the game as one in the higher sense, as not
fully dismiss creative impulse, to recognize that this play, if he avoids
a false ambition to dramatically Escaping from themselves to achieve
real goals is competent, than the dramatic pathos höchstgeschraubte
it makes available. There is a formulaic term spoken in the Mozart
opera, not only the brilliant musicians, but the brilliant artist nature
to recognize. Not only in the Mozart opera, but in the opera about
the ideal of the fantasy genre game, which, free from all dogmatic
ethisierenden addition to intentions, from living reflection
colorful life colors and sensory stimuli to the Fantastic überspiegelten
shadow of the real, conscious, deliberate there. It is instructive observe
how other people with this problem of opera abgefunden have.

The romantic intoxication suggestion, the dramatic illusion of mental
opera initially just as the Germans, Italians and French have the
danger of a deliberate over-emphasis on the dramatic opera Zweckhaftigkeit
to avoid known. In both nations is in the outer system, including
the text, a strikingly realistic naturalistic train noticeable. It also
affects the type of musical setting and feeling normal invoice. Bizet's
"Carmen" is the pattern of psychological opera, Verdi's rough sensuality
sucks strongly to the immediacy of scheduled elementary stage
operations and transfers these emotions with Drastik naive in his
music. With two major opera composers of their nations but remains
always dramatic outfitting funds for the purpose of making music. The
drama won neither in theory nor in practice, the dominance. The driving
music as the real and true Spieltrieb dominated, and even the successors
veristic Verdi is the text of the drama is only a means, its short-term
musical talent quickly and substantial to make. In Gounod, Massenet,
Saint-Saëns is the normal sense from the outset in far too heavily
influenced conventionally, in order to choose between opera and musical
drama ever seriously doubtful to make, and also to deliberately digressive
Ästhetenhafte young French school, despite the literary taste, the
refinement Opera is always the primary musical art form. Only in
Germany has been under tremendous after-effect of Wagner's theories of
a peculiar moral aesthetic view of the nature of the musical drama
herangebildet. At its root, causes innerorganischen view, it is
the declining number of production assets. As a doctrine, it did serious
harm and disregard sponsored by lowering its own artistic core of the
opera in favor of imagined religious ethical qualities of the musical
drama. The really negative and Harmful humanities and this verdict
was not turning in the fact that a large number of weak or medium-sized
talent is driven felt to write music dramas. It was not only in the
aesthetic confusion, the eye for the essential benefits of art and
thus for the creation of entire eras clouded, but artistic trivial moral
high ranking was offered. This damage would have been initially, the
only art as such involved. The disastrous in the general popular
culture across the disadvantage was that this is fraud, game, illusion,
in the moral sense of conscious Unwahrhaftigkeit-based world of
the theater as a true, real, alive, as a vector and Künderin the
highest ethical standard has been issued. The emotional life of human
inwardly focused on these phenomena vorgespiegelten a living truth. It
was fake, unwahrhaftig, because it is a slave of his own imagination
and product made by this legislation received, instead, as the
original character of the genus called for him to grant. The theatrical
comedy, which is so often in the German public of the last fifty years
is in full swing, the tendency toward false pathos and rhetoric are
not worse at least after-effects of a life that their laws from
the opera receives.

We are now far enough romance to the size of their artistic
achievements worthy to be at ease. What separates us from her and forced
to criticism, is not this or that particular in the professionally
entwicklungsmäßigen sense, is not opposition to individual talents.
It is basically the very opposite view of the ethical character of
the artwork. The romance transferred him to the substance, in the form
in the artistic motif itself with all means brilliant tenacity and
vigor materialized him, subjected him to all the inhibitions and
deceptions Matter, brought himself to deliberate institution of artistic
idea. In this contrast between intentions and ethics of the matter
casually idealistic ethos of the unconscious roots of the game Contrast
Wagner Mozart, rooted in opposition to the present generation against
the tendentious art and teaching Wagner, preventing the roots from
the ritual music drama, the propensity to re Erosspiel the Oper. There
are currently three German opera composers, whose works in the conflict
of opinions clearly apparent: Hans Pfitzner, Richard Strauss, Franz
Schreker. Pfitzner is the unconditional supporter of Wagner's doctrine,
whose speculative moves in his three music dramas "Der arme
Heinrich," "The Rose Garden of Love" and "Palestrina" in fanatical
one-sidedness to the extreme consequences.

The dominance of the material ethics, with large stage practitioners
Wagner despite all theories but always within the framework of the
effective bühnensinnlich remains picks at Pfitzner Finally, the
organic life of the drama, which always made deliberate asceticism
foreign theater works.

It is significant that in "Palestrina" is not a single female figure
appears. The monasticism of this art goes to the banishment of Eros
from the stage. Unnoticed, the cruel contradiction, that a seemingly
mundane conditioning on all the wind and fine arts are a genus of
the funds operated, whose essence of sensuality wechselvollsten
the insoluble form is arrested.

Richard Strauss is aware of the theatrical nature of the opera well
aware.

His work is on stilkünstlerischen off of drama and opera directed at
progressively more-heavy approach to the older shape type.
As far as a problem of this kind, the solution allowed by experimental
means, it is in several cases, never uniform, but for considerable
parts within a plant, a success. The lively, temperamentbeschwingte
Musiziertalent ostriches, its gorgeous, high moment of impulse-creating
Überredungsgabe the immediate objectivity of his musical language, all
of this, combined with exceptional agility treff safer form,
makes his big successes understandable and justified. In a time of
general uncertainty taste and talent, he was the poverty only dealing
with Reckless freshness and reflection-free gifts of the musical
naturalism zuwandte and child as a real world with the spirit of the
time always to know what this did. in all such Technical and Artistic
masterful Anpassungsgabe could always just instant solutions to
reach the present successes. She was in her nature never allerseits
binding to persevere in its essence and its own new recording of the
opera takes issue. The Panel and stylistic transformation Arts and
strongest form of talent at best were only suitable to ensure that
the romantic view of the opera as ritual drama entourage no longer
took place, no internal advertising exerted more power without
having succeeded would send her a new self Operntyp oppose.

Only with the emergence of Franz Schreker has completed a conversion.
The remarkable phenomenon of Schreker is not in its individual trains
gifted musicians, so safe and strong, these conventional beginnings
to gaining an individual could enforce eigenvalues. There is also
no striking peculiarities in type style, in which reference to the
young Roman art, especially in striking melody and harmony, enhanced
by lush colouristic großlinige architectural imagination and
Gestaltungsgabe. But with all these properties would Schreker only one
among several. His exceptional position stems from other things. For the
first time in decades is a series of works created that is beyond all
Tendenzmacherei and speculative theory, well beyond any Stilkünstelei
and any form of experiment is. Adulthood, it is made entirely
unconditional, naïve collection of opera as a game piece for an
unbound tail of fantasy, as a guideline only a bold, naturally
serves elementary theatrical instinct.

Schreker not see the stage as a pulpit, not as a place witty entertainment.
It provides them with the ease of the child, which is a magical world
ester implausibilities, unlimited possibilities of the impossible to
open, the only artist to receive His graces her and the greater irritate,
depending also live they are. Schreker, the opera stage again
with the eye of the human imagination irrational sentient. From this
basic setting is the difference not only to the doctrinaire idea
Pfitzner opera or intellectually related arts ostrich tastes. Other
contemporary art, such as Eugen d'Albert, or more recently, the opera
music of the young Erich Wolfgang Korngold is in contrast to the theory
of Wagnerian drama and focuses on the theatrical effect. But here
is aware of this methodology as an effective factor. There are again
periodization melodies and closed forms, because the principle of
leitmotifs and the declamatory style is consumed. Schreker is compared
to those on the Practical in the sense of life wisdom and success
aiming talents a pristine force. His relationship to the stage rests not
on any considerations of expediency, it is elemental origin. His four
operas "The distant sound," "The Game Factory," "The subscribed,"
"The Treasure Tombs" are successes not only in terms of funds report, a
season, but the spiritual movement. They give the music on stage to
original, with no subservience to dramatic intentions handicapped
right of free fantasy game. You win it so that in the course of
the 19th Century lost territory back home and lead the expression of
the opera back to its natural destination. It is conceivable, and not
inconceivable that some people in a predominantly critical intellectual
education educated generation such as art for their notions of culture
is not sufficiently opposed. This would not factually proven, but the
reliability of this concept of culture into question. From the standpoint
of taste abstinence education is the opera because of its multitude of
inorganic means always a not quite full-fledged art entity.
Uniformity can win it only by the musicians, the variety of resources
such as natural resources of his fertile imagination and makes
sense, but not the Whole by principles and theories regulates or
stylized. Such is Schreker's music. As a dramatic formations mean his
operas, the opposite of what some of the spoken drama is necessary
and wesenseigentümlich.

The music, however, they open the district to which they are an element
of the stage effects can develop without being distracted by their
very nature, somewhat abandon themselves without benefit of any other
purpose sacrifice or limit them. The fundamental nature of music is
the Beziehungslose, the verstandesmäßig inconceivable not to gripping
finish. If the ratio of the immediate past to present, on 19 Century
mark just so you can call it the fight against the rationalism of the
romance. Rationalism was due to the need of the illusion of romance,
and this in turn by their resignation towards life, from the view of
art as the opposition to life as the major means of deception, as
surrogates of life arose. Such opinion was needed in the art
theory of ideology, in practice, to imitate reality lead. The
Unbeziehbare the aural experience was in all sorts of relationships:
the opera had to preach, philosophize, moral, at least give
psychological lesson. The symphony was dedicated to the freedom of
poetry, she explained, with the ambition and outcome was irrelevant
whether or not the one directly represented designated
poetic accused was aware or a covered formalist idea. As it is the opera
and the symphony was given, including the design of intimate forms of
vocal and instrumental music: the song, the choir singing, solo and
chamber music of any kind, the song by Schubert zopfiger from
confinement to the freest mirroring individually covered mental
emotional events collected by Schumann, Jensen, Franz portrayal
of sentiment weakened. With Brahms it is popular among a tendency
to simplistic form, with Hugo Wolf and his descendants there will
be new German psychological Small study - without the composers and
listeners associated Entseelung the Lyric would come to consciousness.

The reason Proper, also in an artistic version somehow always the
purely logical understanding Accessible was unspoken prerequisite for
the recognition of the artwork. This document itself was only the
talent, something through music, what the contents after a Andersbegabter
equally or similarly in other ways had said. So zerfloß here, as
in the symphony and the opera, the music your own. The interest was
technically limited, mainly on how the presentation hingelenkt. The
chamber music of Romanticism, including its rich part: the Brahms's
chamber confirms this.

Formalistic construction, invoice of the musical phrase, phonetic colouristic
version, type and development of the sense of representation are given
by the classical models, the exterior structural primarily by Beethoven,
the more lyrical sensibility Routine by Schubert. This heritage is
now in small individual regions. The reason given degree of aesthetic,
musical kind of mean it is a solid, intellectual asset, which is now
in the field of Urschöpferischen, where the great spirits are found
in the small, turbulent earthly world as fact, and ready to be processed.
Entwicklungsmäßig seen such a course is naturally and properly, its
value and its importance lies in the gradual penetration of the
available, and creating ideas primarily artists. If we look at the
entire chamber music after Beethoven until the next century as a means
to think, by varying individual executing the huge mass of the legacy
of Beethoven's first material to decompose and consume as a way to
access their higher mental sphere gradually to win, it would consider
using such about the historical mission of romantic chamber music
means. But it is also said that her own strength urzeugende off, actually
outside of their consciousness with artistic wish to be kept, and that,
under his own opinion and avoid confrontation with the fundamental
problems musically creative design, the display apparatus materializing
given him as a schema treated in the technical sense and develop. In
this way was sufficient for empathy and adaptation still some talent
in itself quite an important piece of music emerge.

The areas that Beethoven and Schubert in their idea of flight had been
offered enough space for special settlements. But the really creative
value: the power and the fundamental obligation, from which the
idealistic classical art in the first rule of their Gestaltungsart
had had with the Descendants necessarily absent. The legality of
a particular expression of art, the creative idea even before his birth
was subordinate to the clamping of the feeling of running into fixed
standards is also in the field of fantasy and the demands of the mind
and the erklärungfordernden consciousness.
There is no sin so small but it is punished with hell, and away
you go straight to the deepest burning pit unless your heart has been
purified by this confession of faith--unless this snake has crawled in
there and made itself a nest. Why should we help religion?  I would
like people to ask themselves that question.  An infinite God, by
practicing a reasonable economy, can get along without assistance.
Loudly this confession proclaims that salvation comes from Christ
alone. What, then, becomes of the savage who, having never known the
name of Christ, has lived according to the light of nature, kind and
heroic and generous, and possessed of and cultivating all the natural
virtues?  He goes to hell.  God, you see, loves us.  If He had not
loved us what would He have done?  The light of nature then shows that
God is good and therefore to be feared--on account of his goodness, to
be served and honored without ceasing.  And yet this creed says that on
the last day God will damn anyone who has walked according to this
light.  It's blasphemy to walk by the light of nature.

The next great doctrine is on the preservation of the saints. Now,
there are peculiarities about saints.  They are saints without their
own knowledge or free will; they may even be down on saints, but its no
good.  God has got a rolling hitch on them, and they have to come into
the kingdom sooner or later.  It all depends on whether they have been
elected or not.  God could have made me a saint just as easy as not,
but He passed me by.  Now you know the Presbyterians say I trample on
holy things.  They believe in hell and I come and say there is no hell.
I hurt their hearts, they say, and they add that I am going to hell
myself.  I thank them for that; but now let's see what these tender
Presbyterians say of other churches.  Here it is:

This confession of faith calls the pope of Rome anti-Christ and a son
of perdition.  Now there are forty Roman Catholics to one Presbyterian
on this earth.  Do not the Presbyterians rather trample on the things
that are holy to the Roman Catholics, and do they respect their
feelings? But the Presbyterians have a pope themselves, composed of the
presbyters and preachers.  This confession attributes to them the keys
of heaven and hell and the power to forgive sins.  [Here extracts are
read.] Therefore these men must be infallible, for God would never be
so foolish as to entrust fallible men with the keys of heaven and hell.
I care nothing for their keys, nor for any world these keys would open
or lock; I prefer the country.

We are told by this faith that at the last day all the men and women
and children who have ever lived on the earth will appear in the self
same bodies they have had when on earth.  Everyone who knows anything
knows the constant exchange which is going on between the vegetable and
animal kingdom.  The millions of atoms which compose one of our bodies
have all come from animals and vegetables, and they in their turn drew
them from animals and vegetables which preceded them.  The same atoms
which are now in our bodies have previously been in the bodies of our
ancestors. The negro from Central Africa has many times been mahogany
and the mahogany has many times been negro.  A missionary goes to the
cannibal islands and a cannibal eats him and dies.  The atoms which
composed the missionary's body now compose in great part the cannibal's
body.  To whom will these atoms belong on the morning of the
resurrection?

How did the devil, who had always lived in heaven among the best
society, ever happen to become bad?  If a man surrounded by angels
could become bad, why cannot a man surrounded by devils become good?

Here is the last Presbyterian joy:  At the day of judgment the
righteous shall be caught up to heaven and shall stand at the right
hand of Christ and share with Him in judging the wicked. Then the
Presbyterian husband may have the ineffable pleasure of judging his
wife and condemning her to eternal hell, and the boy will say to his
mother, echoing the command of God:  "Depart, thou accursed, into
everlasting torment!"  Here will come a man who has not believed in
God.  He was a soldier who took up arms to free the slaves and who
rotted to death in Andersonville prison rather than accept the offer of
his captors to fight against freedom. He loved his wife and his
children and his Home and his native country and all mankind, and did
all the good he knew.  God will say to the Presbyterians, "What shall
We do to this man?"; and they will answer, "Throw him into hell."

Last night there was a fire in Philadelphia, and at a window fifty feet
above the ground Mr. King stood amid flame and smoke and pressed his
children to his breast one after the other, kissed them, and threw them
to the rescuers with a prayer.  That was man.  At the last day God
takes His children with a curse and hurls them into eternal fire.
That's your God as the Presbyterians describe Him.  Do you believe that
God--if there is one--will ever damn me for thinking Him better than He
is? If this creed be true, God is the insane keeper of a mad house.

We have in this city a clergyman who contends that this creed gives a
correct picture of God, and furthermore says that God has the right to
do with us what He pleases--because He made us.  I, "From the essence of
philosophy"). A second contrast through the current philosophy in the
direction, whether they are in their problems more humanities or
science-oriented. This is illustrated in the following discussion
emerge in sharp contrast both neukantischen and the southwest
German school than in the contrasts of the individual self Sachdenker.
This contrast is an indication that we have a universal philosophy have
not yet, because such an existence must be two major areas, through
mediation of independent subject of the inner and outer B iologie
their steady interest and attention must not be regarded as mere " ancilla
scientiae "unilateral header to one of these parts of the sciences do.
In fact, nothing of philosophy as harmful until recently in our country
again and again renewed attempts by the facts and basic concepts of
a single science since the whole world want to problem solve. Such was
done for example in the so-called psychologism by an entirely unjustified
extension of the terms "mentally" or "consciousness": in the power
industry by an Ostwald absolutizing of the energy term in
Empfindungsmonismus by Ernst Mach absolutizing of a false perception
of the concept in certain directions of "philosophy of life"
in a false extension of the term and absolutizing of life, in school
neukantischen Marburger in a narrowing of the false notion of mathematical
cognition science. The philosophy has, from a teaching about the basic
types of G egen ä nde basis of the sentences and that all the
methods according to the nature of the objects, to have (and not
the objects according to methods), a true balance between the various
scientific interest and methodological directions of thought to
bring the sciences on the floor of an independent and comprehensive
philosophical epistemology to arrange and fruitful mutual relationship
must be set.

She still is not a single overwhelming Sciences Despotin as to Hegel's
time to be even less, but her servant, but "Queen" in that last
legitimate sense of the vested rights of the specialized science of its
own, just philosophical standpoint ä themselves constantly and
respects and appreciates them for the whole concept of our world and
our belief is fruitful. The philosophy of the 17th and 18th
century, the philosophy of Descartes and Leibniz could just as often
about the individual sciences R ichtung to give them encouragement
to give fruitful because they are in close connection with the
sciences (and not separated from them, as our literary philosophy)
is not one was satisfied merely to formulate what the "conditions of the
individual sciences," and what methods they use. The current overcoming
the Galilean-Newtonian natural view through the four major philosophical
science of our time ferments the electron theory, which Einstein's
relativity theory, Planck's quantum theory and the positive-scientific
and neuvitalistischen experiments, the organism with übermechanischen
agents to explain Edem J should show what from a philosophy to be
the only logical objective conditions of a falsely verabsolutierten
level science to seek care.

It will address the science of this stage is to have any meaning. Only
if the philosophy of its own G UBJECT and has its own method
Seinsgebieten any individual who, as such, also explore the positive
sciences, it will be more than just the owl of Minerva of positive
science, and only if they S achen itself, not just the science of
things as a mere "awareness doctrine" is itself the subject (albeit
with restrictions on its being free of care, their essentia), can
they also give positive science, instead of just taking it.

In terms Contrary to a third, who is also the current philosophy nor
independent of each Sachproblemen, namely the opposition of the
religious traditions (Catholic and Protestant philosophy), it is
pleasing to report that this contrast, in the strict sense of
philosophy about any role to play play would have really strong
resigned.

Kant and his theology of the successor to outgoing speculative philosophy
had the German one, historically, single Protestant character granted.
The Catholic philosophy or, better said, the philosophy of the Catholic
culture was, apart from very few appearances of romance (eg, Franz
Baader, Deutinger, frog Ammer), through its wholly for himself, and
there was, until recently, no deeper touch between the research
groups of both denominations.

The encyclical "Aeterni patris" in 1897 by Leo XIII. excited
Neuthomismus, established by the School of Leuven Belgium.

Cardinal Mercier also one for the modern scientific problems received
some form of open, has the opposite direction of the philosophical
culture of both parties for many years to be significantly increased.
And the more the German philosophy of Kant by unilaterally
determined and proved by the instructions of Pope Leo XIII.
(probably in the first place to a single philosophical instruction
of P rie st he thought and how he himself on the question of the Franciscan
insured, not the thomistische system for allverbindlichen standard for
all philosophical studies to collect) against the intentions of the
great Pope Dogmatisierung as a kind of philosophy thomistischen were
interpreted, the sharper and the contrast was unbridgeable. Of the
earlier German philosophers could only H erbart in his school devout
followers of both faiths to unite (eg Otto Willmann). This situation
has improved in the presence of largely changed. Especially because of
the direct and indirect influences of Franz Brentanos and rediscovery
of E. Husserl great logician Bolzano, both still in a strong spiritual
continuity with the great spirits of the scholastic philosophy,
and also by Husserl and his researchers suggested, finally, by the
strong reduction of epistemological idealism, and the reawakening
of epistemological realism is a welcome Denkverkehr between the
philosophers of the two denominations have been launched.

Also the influence of Austrian philosophy (especially Marty, Meinongs)
on the German has in recent decades has increased considerably. About
the stronger and more lively touch of the philosopher, both
confessions on metaphysical and religionsphilosophischem area in detail
later to report his. On the other hand, the influence of the naturalistic
and free thinking entrepreneurial worldview shapes on the philosophy
(which is no less as Catholicism and Protestantism in the 19th century
long "tradition" has become) in the philosophy of the present greatly
diminished. Haeckel and his like philosophy in Germany only in the
M s ass, never the actual philosophers have any significance. But
also facing much higher and freer forms of naturalistic philosophy
today have lost much more important. Ostwaldsche The energetics, in
their scientific parts of the modern atomistic completely ousted, had
for theoretical philosophy major implications not developed. The positivism
of France and England in some foothills also came to us (E. Mach,
Avenarius, drawing), one of a few followers, to which we return later,
he had but the epistemological realism and the teaching and sensualism
Association psychology completely opposite direction of
development of modern psychology more and more soft. The current
philosophy contains a large parts of the development stages of the
19th Century is still present as layers in it.

This applies first of the after-effects of older philosophical S ystem
e. We want, from the oldest layers beginning, the current philosophy
now consider, in order, they progressed in the latest attempt to
termination. One small annex and a growing respect for small even
at today's youth enjoys philosophizing of naturalistic monism, which
historically at the time of Ludwig Büchner "force and matter" (the
1854 to 1904 saw 21 editions) picks up. Nevertheless, this system must
be mentioned here, not its inner meaning's sake, but because it is
difficult to estimate due to its less spreading in the German
workforce than in the small middle class a big effect on the German
intellectual life had.

E RNST H aeckels "world riddle" were already in the years 1899 to 1914
in more than 300 000 copies and distributed in 24 languages. The German
spirit was in the development of natural philosophy at all times less
productive, while in France and England with the naturalistic
philosophy and sharpest minds in the form of strict scientific
method was represented by men who, often at the height of the social
ladder, hereinafter weltmännischer in form and style represented
not insignificant, is the German materialism and monism usually
very rough, narrow and unscientific been.

Its representatives were most (as Karl Marx put it) "small bourgeois,"
in style and form of life subordinate philosophical dilettierende
doctors and naturalist, without the knowledge of the history of European
thought and without review on the universe of science, from the corner
of their random interests herauß so-called "consequences of the
science" attracted.

This pattern is also true for the most effective representative of this
direction, Ernst Haeckel (born 1834). His "world riddle" (1899) and
his "living miracle", his last book on philosophical crystal souls are
as good as worthless products. Rightly Paulsen said Friday in a review
of the "world riddle" in the "Preuss. Annals" appeared: "I started with
a burning shame to read this book, shame about the state of education
and the philosophical education of our people."

Equally sharp was the verdict, the E. ADIK come to with the words:
"Haeckel is just dogmatist through and through, and there he stands
with Büchner on one level, as a natural scientist he overlooked him far,
as both philosophers are full of zeros." The Russian physicist Chwolson
revealed in a special font, such as Haeckel was totally incapable of
even the meaning of the simplest principles of theoretical physics,
such as the theorem of conservation of energy or heat of the second
sentence (which he simply discards ") to understand. The well-known
researchers Wasmann has ants in a special font, "Haeckel as a cultural
threat" even his theoretical development benefits frugal identified.
More than the substance of his philosophy here again to speak, lacking
any occasion. [1] [1] See, in addition to the aforementioned
critical works by O.

Külpe: "Philosophy of the Present", 6 Ed, and A. Messner: "Philosophy
of the Present" (1918). In an attempt to lead back to reality,
including all of the organic life, the life and soul of spiritual
activities at the last qualitative basic types of e nergy forms and their
transformation took Wilhelm Ostwald (born 1855), professor of
physical chemistry, naturalistic monism.

His lectures on "natural philosophy" were, as far as the philosophy
of inorganic nature, very stimulating. Ostwald attempted to define the
concept of matter entirely. The mass of mechanics it is only a capacity
factor of the mechanical energy, the gleichgeordnet a heat, a light,
a figure, a magnetic and electrical, chemical and mental energy to
the side. These energy types are not, as the atomistic-mechanical nature
wanted to believe, due to successive, they are similar in the qualitative
theory of elementary Aristotle final conditions, the only formal
quantitative exchange relations with one another. "Everything we call
Matter is energy, because it proves to be a complex of gravity of
energy, shape and volume energies, and chemical energies, where
thermal and electrical energy in varying ways adheres." Nevertheless,
Ostwald lapsed into the error, the energy is purely dynamically
interpreted term relationship, even to a substance hypostasize.

Equally, it was completely unfounded, and the psychic energy into
the types of compounds, although he is aware of the prerequisite, as a
natural energy to apply, measurability, and the lack ichartige monarchic
structure of consciousness phenomena in opposition to this view is.
Völlig remained unresolved and the problem of organic life, as well
as within the unresolved mechanical life lesson. But also within the
inorganic proven the power of the duration not. The criticism, in
particular the Boltzmann and W.

Wundt at the "lectures" have practiced, is characterized by the
development of science, particularly by the brilliant victory of the
atomistic and mechanical thermodynamics quite been confirmed. Utterly
inadequate, however, are de Ostwald been attempts (see especially
"philosophy of values"), the problems of ethics, society, civilization
and history at the bottom of the "power" to understand. That takes the
place of the categorical imperative of the [sic] energetic imperative,
"not wasting energy, they use" appear to be, seems almost like a bad
joke to.

And no less so seems to make a statement, the Ostwald at the
Hamburg Monistenkongreß of 1911 there, which states: "For everything
that mankind desires and hopes, goals and ideals of the notion / God /
zusammengedrängt, will We met by science. " Ostwald purely
technological view of world history, the German organization Addiction
a philosophical Chen coats capes, each historical task to a "Task
Organization," which is so childish that they hardly deserve a
criticism, just as his opinion, the aesthetic sense and the art
had importance only to the extent as they pioneer the scientific work
services, and there will be a matter of maturing in the art of science
once completely disappear from the world. In the sociology Ostwald has
had a serious student, en still strong in the presence hineinwirkt.
It is the Viennese sociologist and chairman of the Austrian
Monistenbundes R G UDOLF oldschei d. His work on "higher development"
and "human economy" has both the population as the teaching of social
policy and provides valuable suggestions, if implemented, be
one-sided attempt to the people themselves ( similar to the slave
economy) rechnungsmäßig than mere economic value and the most
economical use of this "value" to demand, socio-logically untenable.

A resolution of ethics in economics has never tried gold Scheid. A
prominent representative of monism, which is also in the founding
and development of the Monistenbundes played a major role, was the
recently deceased Viennese psychologist and ethicist Friedrich Jodl.
Both his "Textbook of Psychology", in particular its large-scale "History
of Ethics" are valuable and stimulating books, if they are also in a
unilateral way, all free thinking and entrepreneurial aspirations
antikirchlichen one you do not even scientifically superior value
inherent settle. How much the whole of the philosophical direction
of political monism, that is dominated außerphilosophischen trends,
shows her on 1 January 1906 has been association with the organization
of the "German Monistenbundes".

But if you admit or say that the four witnesses were inspired by
an infinite being who did see it all, then they should remember all the
same, because inspiration does not depend on memory.

That brings me to another point.  Why were there four gospels? What is
the use of more than one correct account of anything?  If you want to
spread it, send copies.  No human being has got the ingenuity to tell
me why there were four gospels, when one correct gospel would have been
enough.  Why should there have been four original multiplication
tables? One is enough, and if anybody has got any use for it he can
copy that one.  The very fact that we have got four gospels shows that
it is not an inspired book.

The next point is that, according to the new testament, the salvation
of the world depended upon the atonement.  Only one of the books in the
new testament says anything about that, and that is John.  The church
followed John, and they ought to follow John, because the church wrote
that book called John.  According to that, the whole world was to be
damned on account of the sins of one man; and that absurdity was the
father and mother of another absurdity--that the whole world could be
saved on account of the virtue of another man.  I deny both
propositions. No man can sin for me; no man can be virtuous for me; I
must reap what I sow.  But they say the law must be satisfied.  What
kind of a law is it that would demand punishment of the innocent? Just
think of it.  Here is a man about to be hanged, and another comes up
and says:  "That man has got a family, and I have not; that man is in
good health and I am not well, and I will be hung in his place."  And
the governor says:  "All right; a murder has been committed, and we
have got to have a hanging--we don't care who."  Under the Mosaic
dispensation there was no remission of sins without the shedding of
blood.  If a man committed a murder he brought a pair of doves or a
sheep to the priest, and the priest laid his hands on the animal, and
the sins of the man were transferred to the animal.  You see how that
could be done easy enough.  Then they killed the animal, and sprinkled
its blood on the altar.  That let the man off.  And why did God demand
the sacrifice of a sheep?  I will tell you; because priests love mutton.

To make the innocent suffer is the greatest crime.  I don't wish to go
to heaven on the virtues of somebody else.  If I can't settle by the
books and go, I don't wish to go.  I don't want to feel as if I was
there on sufferance--that I was in the poorhouse of the universe,
supported by the town.

They tell us Judas betrayed Christ.  Well, if Christ had not been
betrayed, no atonement would have been made, and then every human soul
would have been damned, and heaven would have been for rent.

Supposing that Judas knew the Christian system, then perhaps he thought
that by betraying Christ he could get forgiven, not only for the sins
that he had already committed but for the sin of betrayal, and if, on
the way to Calvary, and later, some brave, heroic soul had rescued
Christ from the mob, he would have made his own damnation sure.  It
won't do.  There is no logic in that.

They say God tried to civilize the Jews.  If He had succeeded,
according to the Christian system, we all would have been damned,
because if the Jews had been civilized they would not have crucified
Christ.  They would have believed in the freedom of speech, and as a
result the world would have been lost for two thousand years.  The
Christian world has been trying to explain the atonement, and they have
always ended by failing to explain it.

Now I come to the second objection, which is that certain belief is
necessary to salvation.  I will believe according to the evidence.  
Flametti is poured coffee. He took his hat from the hook, put the
jacket in which the chair was brought from a corner of his fishing
equipment, from the buffet a few cans of different sizes and was ready.
No, the rings! He turned the rings from swollen fingers, the skull ring
and the wedding ring, placed them in the secret compartment in the
cabinet, the cabinet concluded that the key to put himself and went. On
the Postuhr suggested it half past five. He had a little piece of river
leased, in the middle of town, near the meat hall. Conversely, he went.
A short melody in front Attached hinpfeifend, his head vigorously against
the patch reduced, he turned from the small, smoky alley. The restaurant
next door swept machines, you yawned and scrubs. A policeman on the
other side of the road, near the nights after salmiac scented urinal
looked pretty bored, early schnuppernd air, on the Kaigeländer
into the water. "Salü!"

greeted Flametti, concise and bustle of him vorüberstapfend, with the
good conscience of the citizen, his fishing license in the pocket
well and helps the authorities, their lower insonders batches, not to
circumvent the need. "Salü!" he cried and went with the hand gradaus
of Hutrand away into the air. The policeman muttered something to the
response, such as "Good Morning" should be hot. The greeting was not
exactly friendly. Not unfriendly. Rather: sleepy dominated. One can
not deny that it was even sympathy, but in well-mixed with a kind of
censure, which is on the alert. The alley, which Flametti came, it was
not exactly in the best Local reputation. The morning however was a
lot to promise, as that would Flametti itself can spoil the mood.
At the butcher's hall pass, which Kaitreppe down, he is certainly
good loot on the web.

It examined the fishing line, made the right bait, the Rock went high
collar - it was fresh - and blew their hands. Just the first catch was
a huge perch. The fish shimmers and shines, flutschte and clapped.
The weather was gray. Blue Mist Gray inflates the towers on the water,
the Schifflände with their green painted white, six houses, the rapidly
vorüberstrudelnden river and beyond, high above the houses
hanging Stadtgarten shrubs. Flametti sparked the Angel, had the fish
in the net it fast, took the bait in order and threw the Angel, for
the second out. He looked around for the police. He was gone. "Superfluous
element!" he growled, plucking at the bait to attract the attention of
the fish to excite us, the right hand free and schneuzte itself
into a massive force, rotbedrucktes handkerchief. "Geschmeiß! Larger bum
does not exist!" On the street could be a looming and humming hum
hear the ratternd and knatternd näherkam: an early trolley car of the
"laundry A.-G.". The vehicle puffte, böllerte, rolled over. The whole
Kai vibrated. A jerk on the Angel: A second animal had angebissen.
This time a roach. "Well then," winked Flametti, "must go
on!" Factory worker came over. You selected to train. "Hoi", they
called down, "there's going on?" "Salü!" Flametti turned around. They
gesticulated in a hurry to go out and disappeared.

The water flowed gray-green and opaque. The seagulls are very low and
stressed hissed over the bridges across. At the front of the houses
Schifflände opened a window and saw a young woman under the weather.
"Salü!" Flametti cried over. She laughed and closed the window. A child
screamed, and a proposed clock tower.

The bells were ringing a Catholic church. Also in the hall Fleischer
suggested it. On the bridge vegetable traders drove the fruit and
potatoes. The third was a armslanger catch eel. On the ground Angel,
he came up. Black like the mud and the planks from which he came, he
carried clear traces of Rattenbiß. Kaiquadern On the Flametti beat
him to shame. Schoolchildren and discouraging a professional
homecoming lady who gathered at the top of the railing had screamed
out loud in front horror. The lady smiled. "Servus, Margot!"

Flametti called up from the knee bend, eager with his equipment employed.
She laughed and held hands in the ringbesäte embarrassment before their
bad teeth. The children were curious and they mustered their colorful
finery. Flexed over the railing, she swings her purse, hands on mouth,
and cried to the fierce krümmenden fish are hinzeigend: "Even so, for
me!" "What pay you? " Flametti rubbed their hands in order
weiterzufischen. "numbers?" she cried and looked enterprising in on
all sides, "first published it!" What the service man in a blue linen
smocks, which is now with his cart at the corner of Hall Fleischer had
gathered, as the best joke of the previous morning to verständnisinnig
noted receipted and smiling. Flametti was lucky. As the clock was eight,
he took his rifles, and fishing nets and went home. At ten kilograms
appreciated what he had caught. This was live.

He was the fishing gear back to his place, went into the kitchen and
looked for the Wirtschafterin from the network the roaches out for lunch.
Then took a sharp jerk with his burden again and stapfte them. Schnurbein
tracks, he went to the Hotel Beau Rivage, where he was known, required
the chefs to talk and offered him the fish. "Schau her," he said,
"have you have seen such a eel? "He grabbed the slimy eel, who at bottom
had verkrochen into the net, and let the animal, which is heavily
ruffled and ringelte through the closed fist in the network slide
back." review the perch!

" he said, and juggling the fattest bass on the flat hand. Then he
rubbed the handkerchief from his fingers. It was in agreement. The
chef made an appearance, and participated in the Flametti Buffet
francs thirty lady in reception. He had the empty net bundled thanked
binding and made himself at home. The weather had cleared up. The
yellow autumn trees in the promenade stood out sharp and clear
against the blue sky. The seagulls stressed with heavy wing-beat slow
and the mighty river, ballten be jarring to a swarm of confused and
circled in a nice bow, a powerful on the other below, in front of a
walker, they zuwarf crumbs. With long beaks haschten them skillfully
in flight.

Flametti was the best mood. He swivels in a small, on the quayside cigar
stores and purchased a box of fresh "green Philos. With Gentlemanpose
he threw a five-franc piece on the table. He pushed the change in
your pocket without much nachzuzählen, klimperte, went with the hand
to the hat, said "salü!" and marched on. "salü, Fritz!" he cried,
the hand on the hat, a friend who made a small side street bog.
"cresses What cost?" he asked in passing a vegetable trader in the
arcades. And before the window of a bazaars, he stopped, mustered
with experts view the exhibited oriental goods, went inside and
purchased a Tschibuk light blue with gold cord, the equipment for
his number "The Harem" was missing for Sultan Costume . He was very
happy with his purchase, stapfte along the quay and met angels, the
Ausbrecherkönig, angels, his creature, which recently have been fitter,
then was transferred to Variety. "salü Max!" Engel greeted familiar,
but in a respectful distance. "Even perk?" Max stopped, a little
degoutiert his foreign Lieblingsgruß from mouth to hear. Somewhat
carelessly nebenhin and said he "salü!", Took the cigarette from the
mouth and tricks to the right eye. "That was a fun night tonight!"

presented los angels, "would have to be! The Pips and was associated
with the long Margot and Mary and a whole society from Chaux-de-Fonds.
Dudlinger mother at the bottom. Schampusflaschen Five, we have their
necks broken. And the noise! Since Pinke Pinke-was! "With sportsmännischer
negligence, he held his arms outstretched and long typed the cigarette
ashes against the gutter. Max was very uninterested. The adventures of
his slender, for Zusteckereien too susceptible Ausbrecherkönigs impressed
him. "Come in!" he said suddenly and grabbed the Ausbrecherkönig
the arm, "we drink in the" Oxen " 'Half-ne!" And she goes over the
bridge to the vegetables "Red Ox". "You know, Max," Angel said and
tried mightily to the riots Flametti same to keep pace, "say 'times
honestly: Do you have an eel of Margot promised?

It says it is." Flametti stopped.

"Yes, I, an eel, the Margot! Have the eel to grad Offer! So seh 'ich
aus!" "Well, then!" pacifies angel. "Do you know Margot is a 'crazy
woman s room. I've said yes immediately." The landlord was not steer
home. Actually, it was go to a store to see. It took some glass Munich,
in accordance with professional standards, Flametti paid, Engel took
the hats from the hooks. Then we went to dinner. Dudlinger mother,
the queen, in which Mr. Engel with the company from Chaux-de-Fonds such
a fun and elegant Rendez-vous had given the owner of the house, which
also Flametti lived, was their habit under under windows, as the two
men in the small alley bogen. you sunbathing the bosom and smiled to
them with a benevolent nod of the head to Willkomm. This bosom! He took
the entire width of the window and pushed it to the truly ungraziösen,
one could almost say clumsy body back, which also in turn from the
gray, smuggling out home for light and sun coveted.

Those breasts! They grew up, quollen over, and only with difficulty, she
gave the greasy side of the black, compiled term advanced worsted
blouse back on the windowsill on the bumpy patches to overthrow. The
sun's rays from the gable of the vending machine restaurants came
to the aid of the blouse. Steil, they are - it was lunch -
said against flesh abundance. Dudlinger mother alone seemed not to
notice the conflicting masses in their struggle for light. Harmless
and kind soul was somehow between their boobs and body, and he looked
at the middle, gently umhegt of bacon hanging from cunning äuglein
out good-natured. Flametti greeted up, his head high in the neck
flexed. The alley was narrow. And Mr. Engel also saluted up, cried
as Flametti "salü!" and attacked the guard. Dudlinger mother stretched
her head out the window, swallowed the dining rest of the lunch suddenly
still somewhere between the salivary glands was found, and had full
sympathy to the entrance of the stately men in their free guest
house. They said to be their admiration for the first time today
that under the window sill quite a number of very cute little flags
fluttered dirt, resulting from long, on the cornice had fallen raindrops
had formed and the house front hinunterwehten. The men, however, climbed
the steep stairs, and Angel was always behind Flametti stapfend from
level to level with the child's feelings back masses Protektorin his
mother, who with gelüpftem postérieure still the rain flags admired
front of the house. It was eminently! A ridiculously small oriel was
the foundation of this whole load of concern that one parent called
Dudlinger.

Substructure of an abundance of the one from the street not even
a word could make. A miracle, that this bay in the next moment not
krachend and collapsed together with the good mother in a mysterious
Dudlinger depth hinunterstürzte. Amazingly, if one's day besah that
in this bay even three could sit! And Angel had Dudlinger with his
mother and Mary to three is sat. They had talked of war, from the
concert, from the bad times, in the room next door had Sektpfropfen
geknallt, and Mary had yawned as her cavalier from Chaux-de-Fonds made
an allusion to their health. Since she had obviously pulled back and
played the offended. And Mother Dudlinger had the leaves of artificial
vines zurechtgebogen and eingesprochen to Mary. But nothing helped.
She was insulted. Flametti As above, and angels came into the room,
the soup was already on the table. Around the table were: Mr. and
Mrs. Häsli plus daughter, the Jodlerterzett; Mr. Arista, imitator of the
ladies, Miss Laura, the soubrette, and Mr. Meyer, the pianist, Bobby,
the snake man, and the Lehrmädchen Rosa. All with spoons and swallowing
employed. Häsli Mr. vorgebunden had the napkin so that his good shirt
not tarnish. Bobby schlarpste. Mum Jenny, Flamettis woman who was sitting
picturesquely on the edge of a sofa in the sleeping room door, like
a rosy Venus, in the salmon-colored dressing gown, she with her
right hand on the hips carefully held closed. Open hair, stained with
hydrogen peroxide was volatile zurückgestrichen. The steaming soup
bowl. And the pianist used the favorable moment to get soup for the
third time to create. "Mahlzeit!" said Flametti broad. "Mahlzeit!"
said all members of the ensemble. Flametti hung his hat on the door and
went to the table around, to free its remaining space on the sofa.
Miss Rosa immediately stood up and grabbed the terrine to nachzufüllen
soup. Miss Theres the Wirtschafterin, came in, according to the needs
to be seen. Through the open wooden shed from the adjoining room
greeted the Krukru of turtledoves kichernden the Flametti for his habit
of conjuring tricks. "Sit down, angel!" cried the Flametti kind reluctant
to Ausbrecherkönig who does not belong to the ensemble, but is performed
as needed and important stage for a thousand purposes was perfectly
usable. "Merci, Max!

just let me find the place already!" He took the chair, the Rosa
him out of the shed herbeiholte, and sat down on the snake man. The two
had to be in the upper end of the table share, but they came
to cope with each other, they were friends.

Difficult designed the space to question the long side of the table,
where the ladies imitator, the Jodlerterzett and sat soubrette. Miss
Laura and Mr. Arista was tolerated. They found out. Quite incompatible,
however, and scathing, both among themselves as compared to the
other, the yodel, the mother insonders. Mrs.

Lotte Häsli play venom and bile, if you just typed it. Now there were
three closely aneinandergedrückt. Hardly had it with the forks auslangen
to make a fish spear. Hardly forth with the elbow to a plate to bite.
Häsli woman on the central square, between Mr. Häsli and his daughter,
threw angry glances of contempt and scorn on the husband, the lammfromm
sitting and with raised eyebrows, the mouth vollstopfte, rather than
complain. They bared teeth and took him probably five times in a row in
a certain rhythm to the malignant foot. The daughter, challenged by
such intolerance forced the mother, her puffte with the left arm in the
right side, apparently to make them aware of the disgrace to make,
but in truth, with such bitter emphasis that everyone had to remember
unbiased, they help only the opportunity, one to meet her.

The Pianist, Ausbrecherkönig the opposite, grinned at his plate and it
said the very amused with the sign of suggestive snake head man, with
his knife and fork to the minced fish, that the bones bend. Häsli wife
was attentive and was red with anger.
I saw models of all the watercraft;
from the rude dug-out, in which paddled the naked savage, with his
forehead about half as high as his teeth were long--all the water craft
from that dug-out up to a man of war that carries a hundred guns and
miles of canvas; from that rude dug-out to a steamship that turns its
brave prow from the port of New York, with three thousand miles of
foaming billows before it, not missing a throb or beat of its mighty
iron heart from one shore to the other.  I saw their ideas of weapons,
from the rude club, such as was seized by that same barbarian as he
emerged from his den in the morning, hunting a snake for his dinner;
from that club to the boomerang, to the dagger, to the sword, to the
blunderbuss, to the old flintlock, to the cap-lock, to the needle-gun,
to the cannon invented by Krupp, capable of hurling a ball weighing two
thousand pounds through eighteen inches of solid steel.

I saw their ideas of defensive armor, from the turtle shell which one
of these gentlemen lashed upon his breast preparatory to going to war,
or the skin of a porcupine, dried with the quills on, that he pulled on
his orthodox head before he sallied forth. By "orthodox" I mean man who
has quit growing; not simply in religion, but it everything; whenever a
man is done, he is orthodox whenever he thinks he has found out all, he
is orthodox whenever he becomes a drag on the swift car of progress, he
is orthodox.  I saw their defensive armor, from the turtle-shell and
the porcupine skin to the shirts of mail of the middle ages, that
defied the edge of the sword and the point of the spear.  I saw their
ideas of agricultural implements, from the crooked stick that was
attached to the horn of an ox by some twisted straw, to the
agricultural implements of today, that make it possible for a man to
cultivate the soil without being an ignoramus.  When they had none of
these agricultural implements--when they depended upon one crop--they
were superstitious, for if the frosts struck one crop they thought the
gods were angry with them.

Now, with the implements, machinery and knowledge of mechanics of
today, people have found out that no man can be good enough nor bad
enough to cause a frost.  After having found out these things are
contrary to the laws of nature, they began to raise more than one kind
of crop.  If the frost strikes one they have the other; if it happens
to strike all in that locality there is a surplus somewhere else, and
that surplus is distributed by railways and steamers and by the
thousand ways that we have to distribute these things; and as a
consequence the agriculturist begins to think and reason, and now for
the first time in the history of the world the agriculturist begins to
stand upon a level with the mechanic and with the man who has
confidence in the laws and facts of nature.

I saw there their musical instruments, from the tomtom (that is a hoop
with two strings of rawhide drawn across it) to the instruments we have
that make the common air blossom with melody. I saw their ideas on
ornaments, from a string of the claws of a wild beast that once
ornamented the dusky bosom of some savage belle, to the rubies and
sapphires and diamonds with which civilization today is familiar.  I
saw the books, written upon the shoulder-blades of sheep, upon the bark
of trees, down to the illustrated volumes that are now in the libraries
of the world. I saw their ideas of paintings, from the rude daubs of
yellow mud, to the grand pictures we see in the art galleries of today.
I saw their ideas of sculpture, from a monster god with several legs, a
good many noses, a great many eyes, and one little, contemptible,
brainless head, to the sculpture that we have, where the marble is
clothed with such personality that it seems almost impudence to touch
it without an introduction.  I saw all these things, and how men had
gradually improved through the generations that are dead.  And I saw at
the same time a row of men's skulls--skulls from the Bushmen of
Australia, skulls from the center of Africa, skulls from the farthest
islands of the Pacific, skulls from this country--from the aborigines
of America, skulls of the Aztecs, up to the best skulls, or many of the
best of the last generation; and I noticed there was the same
difference between the skulls as between the products of the skulls,
the same between that skull and that, as between the dugout and the
man-of-war, as between the dugout and the steamship, as between the
tomtom and an opera of Verdi, as between those ancient agricultural
implements and ours, as between that yellow daub and that landscape, as
between that stone god and a statue of today; and I said to myself,
"This is a question of intellectual development; this is a question of
brain."  The man has advanced just in proportion as he has mingled his
thoughts with his labor, and just in proportion that his brain has
gotten into partnership with his hand.  Man has advanced just as he has
developed intellectually, and no other way.  That skull was a low den
in which crawled and groped the meaner and baser instincts of mankind,
and this was a temple in which dwelt love, liberty and joy.

Why is it that we have advanced in the arts?  It is because every
incentive has been held out to the world; because we want better clubs
or better cannons with which to kill our fellow Christians; we want
better music, we want better houses, and any man who will invent them,
and any man who will give them to us we will clothe him in gold and
glory; we will crown him with honor.  That gentleman in his dugout not
only had his ideas of mechanics, but he was a politician.  His idea of
politics was, "Might makes right;" and it will take thousands of years
before the world will be willing to say that, "Right makes might." That
was his idea of politics, and he had another idea--that all power came
from the clouds, and that every armed thief that lived upon the honest
labor of mankind had had poured out upon his head the divine oil of
authority.  He didn't believe the power to govern came from the people;
he did not believe that the great mass of people had any right
whatever, or that the great mass of people could be allowed the liberty
of thought--and we have thousands of such today.

They say thought is dangerous--don't investigate;* don't inquire; just
believe; shut your eyes, and then you are safe. You trust not hear this
man or that man or some other man, or our dear doctrines will be
overturned, and we have nobody on our side except a large majority; we
have nobody on our side except the wealth and respectability of the
world; we have nobody on our side except the infinite God, and we are
afraid that one man, in one or two hours, will beat the whole party.

[* There is no method of reasoning more common, or more blamable, than
in philosophical disputes, to endeavor the refutation of any
hypothesis, by a pretense of its dangerous consequences to religion and
morality."--David Hume]

This man in the dugout also had his ideas of religion--that fellow was
orthodox, and any man who differed with him he called an infidel, an
atheist, an outcast, and warned everybody against him.  - He fell,
and when he was still alive back in the coach came, so I stand by that
he does not come out alive again. Marinelli. If the only certainly
is Angelo. Angelo. I want to lose your customers, when it certainly is
not! - Do you have what to order? Because my way is the furthest we
still want to cross the border. Marinelli. So geh. Angelo. If something
vorfaellt, Mr. chamberlain - you know, to ask where I am. What
else is to do getrauet is for me not to be witchcraft. And I am cheaper
than anyone else. (Geht ab.) Marinelli. The Good - But not quite
well .-- Fie, Angelo! Knicker so to be! A second shot, he would surely
have been worth .-- And how he might now be torture, the poor Count!
- Pfui, Angelo! That means his craft very cruel drive - and bungle .--
But the prince did not know. He must first find himself, as he believed
that death is death .-- This! - What GAEB "I order the certainty!
Third appearance The Prince. Marinelli. The Prince. Ways; the
point where they fire up the avenue. You eilet before her servants. The
fear, as it seems, inspires their feet. You must still nothing suspicious.
She believes just to save from predators. - But how long can the
dauren?

Marinelli. So we have them but for the first. The Prince. And the mother
will not visit them? If you do not count? What are we alsdenn next? How
can I deny them? Marinelli. In all this, I certainly have nothing to
answer. But we have seen. Wait you, gracious Lord. The first step had
to be done yet .-- The Prince. Why? if we need him zuruecktun.
Marinelli. Perhaps we have not .-- There are a thousand things, to
continue to build lets you forget .-- And as the chief? The Prince.
How can I forget what I still have not thought of? - The chief? what
is this? Marinelli. The art to please, to talk about - to a
prince, who loves, never fehlet. The Prince. Never fehlet? Except where
he just took the necessary. - I've heard of this art today is too bad
attempt. With all the blandishments and assertions could I not her
a word squeeze. Silent and dejected, and they stood trembling,
like a Verbrecherin to hear her death sentence. Put your fear to
me, I trembled and closed with a plea for forgiveness. Scarcely dare
I, they again anzureden. - In their admissions at least I do not
wag to be. You Marinelli, they have received. I am in the vicinity
hear how it works, and, if I have collected more. Fourth appearance
Marinelli, and soon afterwards his servant Battista with Emilien.
Marinelli. If they do not rush yourself seen - And that is probably not,
because they are so fortgeeilet - you ways; the point. Also I will not
be the first, which here falls into the eyes. (He runs into a back
corner of the hall.) Battista. Only come here, gracious lady!

Emilia (except breathing). Ah - Ah - I thank Him, my friend - I thank him
.-- But God, God! Where am I? - And so all alone? Where's my mother?
Where did the count - but after you come? me on the foot after? Battista.
I guess. Emilia. He suspects? He knows it not? He saw it not? - Ward
did not running behind us? - Battista. Bullets? - That would be! -
Emilia. Certainly! And this is the Count, my mother made .-- Battista.
I want them out immediately after. Emilia. Not without me .-- I want
to, I must have: komm 'He, my friend! Marinelli (the herzutritt
suddenly, as if he just hereinkaeme). Ah, gracious lady! What a misfortune,
or rather, what a luck - what a lucky accident provides us with the
honor - Emilia (lopping). How? You here, sir? - I'm so well for you? -
Excuse me, Mr. chamberlain. We are predators ohnfern been falling over.
Because we were good people to help - and this honest man lifted me
out of the car and brought me here .-- But I am frightened, rescued me
alone to see. My mother is still in danger. Behind us was even shot. She
is maybe dead - and I live? - Forgive. I have to go and I must again
- where I would have to remain the same. Marinelli. Calm down, gracious
lady. It stands everything well, and they will soon be with you,
loved the people, for which you fear so much gentle feel .--
However, Battista, go, run: perhaps they should not know where the lady
is. They should perhaps, in one of the Wirtschaftshaeusern search of
the garden. Get them immediately here. (Battista's up.) Emilia. True?
Are they all secure? You may not befall? - Ah, what is this day for
a day of horror for me! - But I should not stay here - I should have
charity - Marinelli. Why this gracious lady? They are already without
ohnedem breath and forces. Enjoy your time much more, and deign to come
to a room where comfort is more .-- I will bet that the prince himself
to your expensive, venerable mother, and she you zufuehret. Emilia.
Who, you say? Marinelli. Our gracious prince himself Emilia (very
shocked). The Prince? Marinelli. He fled on the first message to you
Huelfe .-- He is highly ergrimmt that such a crime so close to him,
under his eyes, though, may have dared to be. He lets the perpetrators
after set, and their punishment, if taken, will be outrageous. Emilia.
The Prince - Where am I then? Marinelli. On Dosalo, the pleasure
palace of the prince. Emilia. What a coincidence!

- And you believe that he himself can appear? - But in the company
of my mother? Marinelli. Here it is already. The Prince Fifth appearance.
Emilia. Marinelli. The Prince. Where is she? Where - We are looking
for you everywhere, the most beautiful lady .-- You are surely? -
Well, everything is so well! The Count, your mother - Emilia. Ah, gracious
lord! Where are they? Where is my mother? The Prince. Not much, quite
near. Emilia. God, what will I consent to one or the other might meet!
Certainly take - because you deny me, gracious Lord - I see it, you
hide from me - The Prince. Not yet, the best lady .-- Give me your
arm and follow me safely. Emilia (undecided). But - if nothing befall
them - if my intuitions deceive me: - why are they not here
already? Why did they not with you, gracious sir? The Prince. So you
rush it, my lady, all these horror pictures disappear with one to see.
Emilia. What should I do? (The hands wringing.) The Prince. What, my
lady? If you have a suspicion against me cherish? - Emilia (the
niederfaellt before him). At your feet, gracious Lord - The Prince (they
cancel).

I am very ashamed .-- Yes, Emilia, I deserve this silent reproach
.-- My demeanor this morning is not to justify - to apologize maximum.
Forgive my weakness .-- I have no confessions to be worried, which I
expect no advantage to have. Even I was speechless by the dismay
with which it sounds, or rather, not listening enough and could punished
.-- 'I have this chance to me again before all my hope will disappear
forever - the lucky me again, you to see and speak, gives; can order
'I have this chance for the happiness of a favorable Wink explains -
for the most wonderful of my postponing sentencing finite explain once
again to plead for mercy to be: but I will - you do not shake , my lady
- solely dependent on your looks. Not a word, no sighs should offend
you .-- I am not only hurt your distrust. Only you do not doubt at
the moment, full of violence, you have about me. Only you never fall for
that one other protection needed against me .-- And now you, my lady
- you where to delight you wait, the more you approve. (He leads them,
not without reluctance, ab.) Follow us .-- Marinelli Marinelli. Follow
us - this might read: We do not follow - what I would have to
follow them?

He likes to see how far he is under four eyes .-- brings with it everything
I have to do is - to ensure that they are not gestoeret. From the Count
is now probably, I hope not. But by the mother, the mother! It should
be me very surprised if the deduction would be so quiet and her daughter
would have abandoned .-- Well, Battista? what's up? sixth appearance
Battista. Marinelli. Battista (hurry). The mother, Mr. chamberlain
- Marinelli. Dacht 'ich's doch! - Where is she? Battista. When you do
not anticipate, it will take a moment here .-- I was not willing, as you
note offered to me, around me after her: her when I heard yelling from
afar. She is the daughter on the track, and where not only - our whole
attack! Everything in this secluded area of people has gathered around
them, and everyone wants to be the way of their development,.

Whether you already said that the prince here is that you are here, I
do not know .-- What do you do? Marinelli. Let see! - (He considers.)
Letting you do not, if they know that the daughter is here -
It's not .-- Certainly, she is jealous when the wolf in the sheep looks
.-- eyes? It still wants to be. But the sky was mercifully our ears!
- Now what? The best lungs are exhausted, including even a female. You
hear all the screaming, when they no longer can. - In addition,
it is but once a mother who we have on our side must .-- If I know the
mothers rather - as something of a mother to be a prince, flatters most
.-- Let them come, Battista , let them come! Battista. Hoeren you! hear
you! Claudia Galotti (inside). Emilia! Emilia!

My child, where art thou? Marinelli. Go, Battista, and search
only their inquisitive companions to remove. Seventh appearance
Claudia Galotti. Battista. Marinelli. Claudia (which occurs
in the door, by Battista wants to go out). Ha! Lifted them out of the
car! The lead them away! I recognize you. Where is she? Say, unfortunate!
Battista. This is my thanks? Claudia. Oh, thank you earn (in a
mildly Tone) - so forgive me, honest man! - Where is she? - Let me
no longer deprived. Where is she?

Battista. Oh, your grace, they could be in the lap of animosity
not aufgehobner .-- Here's my Lord, your grace to her lead. (Some
people who want nachdringen.) Zurueck there! her! Eighth appearance
Claudia Galotti. Marinelli. Claudia. Thy Lord? - (Marinelli and sees the
drives back.) Ha! - That your Lord? - You here, sir? And here is my
daughter? And you, you will lead me to her? Marinelli. With much
pleasure, madam. Claudia. Keep - Just when it falls to me - they
were the ones - not - the earl this morning in my home aufsuchte?
With whom I let him alone? with the controversy he got? Marinelli.
Controversy?

- What I did not know: a minor word change in seigniorial Affairs -
Claudia. And Marinelli is your name? Marinelli. Marchese Marinelli.
Claudia. This is right .-- Hoeren but you, Mr. Marchese. - Was Marinelli
- Marinelli's name was - accompanied with a curse - no, that I am
the man edeln not slander! - Accompanied with no curse -- The curse,
I think this - the name Marinelli was the last word of the dying earl.
Marinelli. Counts of the dying? Count Appiani - you hear, madam,
what happened to me in your strange speech most striking. - In dying
Counts - What you want to say, I do not understand. Claudia
(bitter and slow). The name Marinelli was the last word of the dying
Counts! - Do you understand now? - Until I understood it not, though
spoken with a tone - a tone - I can hear him! Where was my sense that
it does not sound immediately understood? Marinelli. Well, madam - I
was always of Count friend, his trusted friends. So, when he still
dying I said - Claudia. With the tone - I can not imitate him, I can not
describe it but it contained everything! everything! - What? robbers
would have been that we were added - there were murderers, murderers
bought!

- And Marinelli, Marinelli was the last word of the dying Counts! With
a tone! Marinelli. With a tone? - If it is heard on a tone, in a
moment of horror to hear the charges rechtschaffnen a man to start?
Claudia. Ha, you can 'just before it I make dishes that sound! - But,
woe to me!

I forget about it my daughter .-- Where is she? - How? even dead? -
What could my daughter that was Appiani thy enemy? Marinelli.
I forgive the anxious mother .-- Come, madam - your daughter is here,
in one of the next rooms, and hopefully by its horrors have completely
recovered. With the gentlest of care is the prince himself to beschaeftiget
- Claudia. Who? - Who himself? Marinelli. The Prince. Claudia.
The Prince - Say you really the prince? - Our prince? Marinelli.
What else? Claudia. Now then - I unglueckselige mother - and her
father! her father - he will curse the day of its birth. He will curse
me. Marinelli. To heaven's sake, madam! What do you now? Claudia. It
is clear! - Is not it? - Today in the temple! before the eyes of all
Estonians net! in the immediate presence of the Eternal! - began
Bubenstueck since it broke out! (Against the Marinelli.) Ha, murderer!
Cowardly, wretched murderer! Not brave enough to own hands to
kill, but nichtswuerdig enough to satisfy a strange thrill to be murder
- to murder - all the scum murderer! - What killer are honest, you
will not tolerate it among themselves! You! You! - Because why should
not I give you all my bile, all of my venom with a single word in the
face spit - you! You pimp! Marinelli. They swarm, good woman .-- But
at least moderate your wild cries, and remember where you are. Claudia.
Where am I? Concerns, where I am? - What is the lioness takes care of
the boys robbed in whose woods they bruellet? Emilia (within). Ha,
my mother! I hear my mother! Claudia. Her voice? That's it! She has
heard me, she has heard me. And I should not cry? - Where art thou,
my child? I come, I come! (It crashes into the room and Marinelli after
her.) Fourth, the elevator scene remains. First appearance The Prince.
Marinelli. The Prince (as the room of Emilien forthcoming). Come,
Marinelli! I need to relax - and you must have light. Marinelli. O
the mother's anger! Ha! ha! ha! The Prince. You laugh? Marinelli.
If you had seen Prince, how great are here, here in the hall, the mother
gebaerdete - You probably heard them cry - and how to tame it once
was, at the first sights of you - Ha! Ha! - That I know so well that
no mother a prince's eyes auskratzt because he finds her beautiful
daughter. The Prince. They are a poor observer - The daughter of the
mother fell unconscious into the arms. Up the mother forgot her
anger, not about me. Her daughter spared them, not me, if they are
not loud, not clearly said - what I prefer to not be heard, not to have
understood. Marinelli. What, gracious Lord? The Prince. What's the
adjustment? - To highlight it. Is it true? or is it not true?
Marinelli. And if they ever would! The Prince. If it would be - So it's
- he is dead? Dead? - (Drohend.) Marinelli! Marinelli! Marinelli. Now?
The Prince. By God! The allgerechten God! I am innocent of this blood
.-- If I had said previously that the earl's life will cost - no, no!
and if I even would have cost the lives! - Marinelli. If I would have
predicted - as if his death would have been my plane! I had it to Angelo
on the soul-bound, to prevent that anyone suffering happen. It
would also, without the slightest violence expired, if the count is not
the first would have allowed. He shot bang and a small case. The Prince.
Surely, he would have to be understand Fun! Marinelli. Angelo then
take that anger came, and the death of his companions revenged - The
Prince. Admittedly, this is very natural! Marinelli. I have referred to
him enough. The Prince. Reference? How friendly! - Warn him that he
is in my areas not enter Morocco. My reference does not want to be
so friendly. Marinelli.

Probably right - I and Angelo, intent and chance: everything is one .--
Although it was ahead conditioned, although it was ahead of promised
that none of the Ungluecksfaelle that could happen is that I should
be guilty - The Prince . The place is - could you say? or should?
Marinelli. Always better! - But, gracious Lord - before I dry it
with the words tell me what you think - a single idea: the death of
the Count is less than nothing to me indifferent. I had him ausgefodert;
me he was pleased guilty, he is without them the world has gone, and
my honor remains beleidiget. Law, I earned under any other circumstances
the suspicion that you do against me, but even among these? -- (With
an assumed heat.) Those who may think of me! - The Prince (the key).
Well, now good - Marinelli. That he still lebtet. O that he still
lived! Everything, everything in the world I wanted to give a question
- (bitter), even the grace of my prince - this invaluable, never to
grace verscherzende - like 'I give drum! The Prince. I understand .--
Well, now good. His death was random, purely by chance. You insure it,
and I, I think it .-- But who more? Even the mother? Also Emilia -
Even the world? Marinelli (cold). Difficult. The Prince. And if you
do not believe it because what will you believe?

- You jerk the armpit? - Angelo is your man for the tool and me
for the perpetrator hold - Marinelli (still cold). Probably enough.
The Prince. Me! myself!
That is civilization.  Think what slaves we have been!  Think how we
have crouched and cringed before wealth even!  How they used to cringe
in old times before a man who was rich--there are so many of them gone
into bankruptcy lately that we are losing a little of our fear.

We used to worship the golden calf, and the worst you can say of us
now, is, we worship the gold of the calf, and even the calves are
beginning to see this distinction.  We used to go down on our knees to
every man that held office; now he must fill it if he wishes any
respect.  We care nothing for the rich, except what will they do with
their money? Do they benefit mankind?  That is the question.  You say
this man holds an office.  How does he fill it?--that is the question.
And there is rapidly growing up in the world an aristocracy of heart
and brain--the only aristocracy that has a right to exist.  We are
getting free.  We are thinking in every direction.  We are
investigating with the microscope and the telescope.  We are digging
into the earth and finding souvenirs of all the ages.  We are finding
out something about the laws of health and disease.  We are adding
years to the span of human life and we are making the world fit to live
in. That is what we are doing, and every man that has an honest thought
and expresses it, helps, and every man that tries to keep honest
thought from being expressed is an obstruction and a hindrance.

Now if men have been slaves what shall we say of women?  They have been
the slaves of slaves.  The meaner a man is, the better he thinks he is
than a woman.  As a rule, you take an ignorant, brutal man--don't talk
to him about a woman governing him, he don't believe it--not he; and
nearly every religion of this world has been gallant enough to account
for all the trouble and misfortune we have had by the crime of woman.

Even if it is true, I do not care; I had rather live in a world full of
trouble with the woman I love than in heaven with nobody but men.
Nearly every religion accounts for all the trouble we have ever had by
the crime of woman.  I recollect one book where I read an account of
what is called the creation--I am not giving the exact words, I will
give the substance of it.  The supreme being thought best to make a
world and one man--never thought about making a woman at that time;
making a woman was a second thought, and I am free to admit that second
thoughts as a rule are best.  He made this world and one man, and put
this man in a park, or garden, or public square, or whatever you might
call it, to dress and keep it.  The man had nothing to do.  He moped
around there as though he was waiting for a train.  And the supreme
being noticed that he got lonesome--I am glad He did! It occurred to
Him that he would make a companion, and having made the world and one
man out of nothing, and having used up all the nothing, He had to take
a part of the man to start the woman with--I am not giving the exact
language, neither do I say this story is true.  I do not know.  I would
not want to deceive anybody.

So sleep fell upon this man, and they took from his side a rib--the
French would call it a cutlet.  And out of that they made a woman, and
taking into consideration the amount and quality of the raw material
used, I look upon it as the most successful job ever accomplished in
this world.  I am giving just a rough outline of this story.  After He
got the woman done she was brought to the man--not to see how she liked
him, but to see how he liked her.  He liked her and they went to
keeping house. Before she was made there was really nothing to do;
there was no news, no politics, no religion, not even civil service
reform. And as the devil had not yet put in an appearance, there was no
chance to conciliate him.  They started in the housekeeping business,
and they were told they could do anything they liked except eat an
apple.  Of course they ate it.  I would have done it myself I know.  I
am satisfied I would have had an apple off that tree, if I had been
there, in fifteen minutes.  The envy was boundless. The attempts
to save the water Flametti raven went into ridicule. Pfäffer revealed:
"The eccentric mother-or a night on the Orinoco. Farce in three
acts," an old uncle with a peculiar Botanisierbüchse and red umbrella
should sing Miss Mary, a no longer youthful, but likeable actress,
from Jenny calmed foresaw that her legs with an old Kaleschengauls,
abgewetzt, tuberous and skinny, need to be a fiasco.

A Director else also started "Indian" einzustudieren, which he called
"Komantschen" called. So that Flametti saw itself forced, under the
poster of the Lord Lemmerle still set to be: "Any imitation forbidden!
Who makes after the Indians will be prosecuted," but the bird shot from
Ferrero. Using excessive advertising, he showed that "Lullu
Cruck, King of all ventriloquists! Man laughs, laughs, laughs!"
"Cramp!" Flametti laughed, "If he indeed themselves" self-esteem
Flamettis reached the summit. And when one day the promise of Mr.
Fournier arrived because of the fifty men brass bands, when Mr.
Schnabel permission to show for the night and free dance, when at
last the main sample could be applied, since even he found the
courage, the Rotter the tip to offer. And that was good because a
hair would be provocative behavior by Rotter still on the main
sample everything failed. Ironically unfounded, as it corresponded to
his Gemütsart, Mr. Rotter came on the day of the main trial in
Lackstiefeletten and stripes pants, the coke on the head pertly Eddy
pushed : Dandy, enthusiasts and cynics. "Nu we go!" he cried, by throwing
himself in front of the stage placed, arms and legs folded, the
host leaned table.

"high with the skirts!" he called the curtain use angels. "Wa?" schnodderte
it to the waitress who asked about his liking. Flametti did not
understand how a man his own ghosts to the product so hopelessly
frivolous could behave. He shivered. But he tried to face the evil
good game, and silent. But when the gig was: "The last of the tribe of
the Delaware" - the chief selbstverfaßte overture Flametti suppressed
in a burst of uncertainty - when is the gig came and Mr.
Rotter in prustendes laughter erupted, and as a result of the whim
of the Lord höchlichen author also fellgegürteten women on the stage
began, the thing to find funny, because tore Flametti patience. On the
hoes he turned in anger like a kirrender cock. The lance he was on the
ground that the right house and the Renaissance landscape in the
background came into jitter. Hochrot he was in the face like a turkey.
And he cried drosselnd with raised hands in the dialect of his home
on the ramp down, "Wellet Se nit is a moment for your four-letter set,
Mr. Poet? Just a moment, if it is to go, you seh'n but that worked
here will be. "The Rotter was quite surprised. That was an incredible
impudence of this Flametti! What was the actually a! That was the
height! High lifted his baton, fitzte it through the air and called up
on stage: "You hear it out: Yeah, I work with you maybe look at the pig
kept or hab 'I have written the ensemble? The Women's Room there
with the cucumber nose is impossible!

"The Women's Room with cucumber nose was Miss Rosa. And Flametti looked
out and stood for a moment, concerned. "I've got the ensemble but, God
damn me for hook noses, not noses Himmelfahrt done!" He sticks with
the C Major and cried: "Well, sometimes continues "But Flametti was
now the desire has passed." Let the piano in Ruh! " he shouted down and
wave with the lance. "What do you actually? Director Are you here
or I?" However, Mr. Rotter was remarkably quiet, gently took the baton
from the keys, put the cap deal and said: "Listen to it! If you
think you Botokude me for your fifty francs here yell at you, then you
are mistaken. "" And you, "cried Flametti, the spear and jumped out,
in full Indian chief jewelry, on the stage down," make sure that you
get out. Raus! I have enough of you. "And because Mr. Rotter than
just one answer mocking grin had hochzog the forehead skin, ears
moving and playing stupid, grabbed on the patron Flametti
sleeveless and shipments him personally by the local to the
buffet, where Mr. Schnabel automatically and without asking him and
his adopted with regard to its moral ambiguity sat before the door.
After the poet was removed, everything went smooth. From the front,
from the front, and again from the beginning until it was. On the
seventeenth IV was the first place. Early in the morning was in the
house Flametti considerable excitement. It was not yet seven clock
early, when the women from the inner chamber Favorit already
argued for the privilege, for this honor Flametti fire certificate
to be allowed to clean boots.

Traute lady had evolved over the last few days cleaning the boots of
their chieftain very special domain made. Hardly arose in the morning
the first cooing and fluttering of the turtle doves, so they jumped
out of bed, to the main chamber of the woman, before whose door the
Knöpfelschuhe of women and the Zugstiefel Flamettis drunken nights
in beisammenstanden camaraderie, took away the chief boots,
was the main woman boots, and ran into the kitchen after cleaning,
the other two favorites preempt. But today they had charged. For while
they fly in negligees on the sleeping room door ran, Miss Rosa also
slipped on the edge of bed and hurried down into the kitchen to brush
and cleaning to get too. Güssy but that in no time, back to change,
the chances of the coming conflict is calculated had reached her leg
and pulled clothes to feverishly. My temperament was silent, phlegmatic,
hot. But so much she knew: she would be dressed in a dispute over
their rivals in shirt standing at an advantage. The dispute could not
wait. Under the door between the dining room and kitchen met Traute
and pink. The one with the boots, the other with a brush and cream.
Güssy buttons are just the shoes to Spangenberg. "Give her the boots!"
cried Rosa, "they do nothing to you, I'm in the house longer than you!"
She wanted to just today, a prerogative not take leave to which they
previously had, like. Traute But did not it, the boots out of the
hands. "Did you see it yesterday weighted? Do you yesterday weighted?
Do you understand what all of them ? Feed 'your pigeons! "Güssy laughed.
But Rosa did not want to be prolix conflicts.

"Give it here!" she exclaimed indignantly, and knocked the Traute Wichsbürste
on the nose. Güssy came closer from the batten shed, laughing. The
boots fell to the ground. The Wichsbürste too. The cream rolled under
the cupboard. Traute and got pink in the hair. In this moment, but it
knocked and stepped in. Ms snipe from Basle. She was with the early
train herübergefahren to their visit to make their "scandals" to be
done and in the evening for the premiere to come. "Good morning!" she
said kindly, and stood at the door. "Am I right here at Flametti?" "Ah,
the woman snipe!" cried Rosa surprisingly friendly and let their
partner go. "Yes, yes, of course you are right! Sit down, Ms. snipe!"
and laughed Güssy is dead, the boots and the cleaning itself. Traute
had fled into the shed. Even Rosa, kichernd behind the slit of
Lattentüre, hastened to attract a skirt. Snipe woman was a bit taken
aback by such half-Tummelei of the artists. Musternd saw it in
the dining room in order. So here Flametti lived! "He is still asleep,"
and apologized Rosa came to the closing snaps back to light. Then,
presenting: "This is Miss Güssy. This is Miss Traute!" The rubbed with
the towel tip the shoe cream from the face. "Still a bit early. He is
always at around eleven. Today, he probably sooner, because we
heut 'abend the" Indians ". But I can not wake him." "Well, well!"

said Mrs. snipe and stood up, the umbrella in his hand. "I come back at
a later time. Sincerely it! snipe The woman was there." "It is quite"
gracefully bowed to Rosa, her deputy duties consciously. "I werd
'order it. Adieu, Mrs. snipe!" "Adieu!" expanded wife snipe and went,
not in passing, without a glance into the sooty kitchen thrown to
where Miss Theres now plying, morose and cheroots fuming. Then angels
came to eight. "Sleeps he still?" "Yes, he sleeps yet. "" Where you
have the poster? "Here," said Rosa and brought the beautiful
poster of the Lord Lemmerle from the corner of the mirror cabinet,
remained with Mr. Engel and laughed at him. Also, the two others
came closer and laughed. angel mild eyes had become wolf eyes. "It's a
poster! What?" After he saw the women around as if he had made himself
the poster. Rosa laughed. Güssy giggled bashfully. They knew it Flametti!
And if that was the picture where he looked so solemn, as the Indians
- as you should not laugh, but not Traute laughed. They thought it was
stupid, because to laugh. What was there to laugh? There was nothing
to laugh about. You frustrated with these geese. This pink, the Trulle,
which are already understood them!

That's just for the publicity! He has a business, Flametti. This
is the Indians games. That makes it fun. And if he can make a poster,
it's a shame that it's just a chest image is that not even the legs
are out with Frans trousers and boots. And we must be happy, if he
can clean the boots, so he was delighted. And if he sometimes "crazy"
and toll strikes, then it's not so bad! Wives need it, otherwise
they will be cheeky. It looks like yes. And if it is touched, then
it's as if a hearing and seeing and passes you want to love back,
because he is not embarrassed and does not worry. This is already a
carrion, this Flametti. And they said it quite loud, a little
sulkily, and very in love: "This is a carrion, this Flametti!" Rosa
crowed before the high spirits and looked unhappy in the window seat
angle conducive to Traute. The powerful had it! Güssy but, still
and hot, had a Geschäker with the angel brought. They had their hands
on the Tric-Trac ineinandergesteckt and Güssy long as it was, tried
to enter the slender Ausbrecherkönig unterzukriegen.

Rosa held, absorbed, the poster out front. And Traute came closer
and threw the fire chief tapfren sham "singing a hand on by the
theater turned their love. And it was pink around the neck and danced
with her around the room. "Let's go, Güssy!" Engel said seriously, 'hab'
no time. must continue. The poster hang out. "snipe woman was there!"
cried Rosa. "From Basle?" "Yes, of Basle," "Fine it's heut 'abend:" The
last of the tribe of the Delaware "," sang Traute with exaggerated
gestures, which in the worst case, it certainly is not as easily could
have fallen. "Yes, Madam snipe was" receipted angel, "and this is also
a piece of news: that the Häsli not want to sing. Häsli Mr. Schackerl
not want to make. Because he's not fit." "Ah, the!" Angel Rosa maulte
against "what is not know everything!" And they voiced: "Schackerl,
Schackerl, trau di net!" What they had heard of the sample, and this
woman copied Häslis naughty playing has. In general, the women were out
of tape and, starting as early in the morning, and warned Engel : "If
you do not make other eyes, eh 'the evening comes," and sent angels to
go to the poster under his arm, together with the two images panels,
which he himself reached and on which the members of the ensemble
in Flametti entbötigsten their private - and theatrical poses photographed
were present. "angel!" cried Flametti whose naked head in the sleeping
room door appeared, and drove the girls apart. "Yes, Max?" Angel turned,
already at the stairs, another. "Komm mal her!" Rosa Güssy took the
boots and she wears at the door. Traute called by the switch:
"Theres the coffee!" Güssy quickly took the tablecloth away and covered
the coffee table. Flametti angel followed into the sanctum. "Whats?"
Flametti asked. "Posters pick," said Engel. "Otherwise what?" Flametti
had risen back to bed. "Good morning, Jenny!" Angel made his obeisance.
"No, nothing else. Yes: The Häsli make such Zick. He is very scratched
and bloody, he does not want to sing, he says." Engel bibberte
violently, as always, if such he had to bring Hiobsposten. "What does
he want? " Flametti sat on. "Well, you know," begütigte angels, "it
suits him not. It is but yesterday came back from the military. And it
suits him not to say that the old woman has chosen the song with
the Schackerl."

"What is that? " sat down now to Jenny by the shirt on the beautiful
full breast zusammenzog. "Well, you know it, Jenny," Engel said, "You
are always cats. And now my Häsli early at seven, as I came from Annie,
on the road meets all scratched to Schnörre around, and told
me that he did not want to sing because of the "trau mi net." And he
does not want to make the calf. "" Good! " Flametti said, 'hang' from
the posters, he is already singing. I will even make sure that he
sings, "And Jenny cried:" Max, go over to them! Setz 'them against the
door! Hol' dir replacement ! Hab 'ich dir's not to say that they
let us mount? Have I not always said? Da hast du's! From the
night to disturb a calm to the anarchists, "and Max jumped out of bed,
pulled on the trousers, schnackelte Hosennaht the way and stepped into
the dining room, unwirsch. The coffee was on the table. "Who has to
clean the boots?" he cried. "I!" Traute cried, pink and Güssy at the
same time. "Good!" Flametti said, pulled the boots on, put the hat
on and stapfte it.

He went not to the Häslis, but went dead tracks to Miss Mabel
Magorah, the Indian dream dancer, turnips 16.IV street, which he used
as a substitute. Even Jenny was now on, not even a good mood, pulled
the blue dressing gown on, like an ironing carpet looked, and tied
it on the body together and came to light.

The first was that they UNTRIMMED Knöpfelschuhe said. They did when
they noticed nothing, and asked harmless, by focusing on the coffee
table continued: "Who has my husband cleaned the boots?" Silence. "Well,
werd 'ich's know who my husband has cleaned the boots?" Güssy cheeky
and phlegmatic, "I. Why?" "Because you also have to clean my, if they
are." And Jenny, the Knöpfelschuhe and threw them to the Güssy before
the feet. "Well!" maulte Güssy, "I'm not here servant in the house!
target but the pink boots putzen, I am here as a singer committed!"
"What are you?" cried Jenny upset, "singer? What sayest thou? confinement
werd 'ich euch! Nothing to eat werd' ich euch give me werd 'euch
Mores Teacher! For the guys did their eyes.'s for work!" Traute stood
somewhere in the window , away, and giggled in the inside. Rosa was from
behind disappeared into the kitchen. "Rosa!" Jenny cried
out, "have you ironed out your dress?" "No, not yet!" replied it
from outside. "You then iron your dress! Theres is to iron it.

And then it carries over the costumes in the wardrobe!" Traute
got an idea. They went out into the kitchen and came back with a teapot.
"Well, what have you because there?" asked Jenny. "Teewasser!"
Traute said. "Teewasser?" Jenny asked, "why Teewasser?" "I want to
wrap my curls." Jenny beat with his hand on the table and went on.
"Well, because it listens to the world history! You're probably totally
crazy? Lockenhaus now clock for nine mornings? And from my teapot?
Your dirty fingers do you want stuck in my teapot, from which I drink
tea?" But Traute was the not at all outlandish. Neither curls that
they wanted to develop, nor were they Flamettis took this teapot.
They went so calmly with the teapot, according to the shed to its
curler from the Schieblade take. Jenny but she had already obtained.
"Challenges with the jug! " cried she, "so get into the kitchen!"
Traute noted. "If you the teapot forth, thou man?" cried Jenny. They
are dragged to and fro, until the hand of the stronger Jenny the teapot
with a high in the air drove that the water splashed. "I will give you
curls! you go I do not leave the house tonight, and come to me at
lunch not at the table. "" Pah! " Traute cried, "what I make of it, Mr
Flametti drüber has to be determined. He will call me." "Here you
stay indoors!" Jenny cried beside herself, staggered her a push,
closed the door, and closed from. "Theres!" called them to switch,
"which now gets nothing to eat!" "And woe unto you!" she called the
two others, "if her zusteckt what I want to show you who is master
here!" From her shed one heard Traute drum and to sing: "The bogus fire
chief tapfre With his wild Mägdelein ...." in a stubborn love rhythm.
"Ah, so!" said Jenny. "Well, wait's just starting!" Güssy had meanwhile
lifted the towel, with the Traute the shoe cream from the face was,
and tried in a burst of solidarity, it disappear. But Jenny just
noticed that the towel behind the curtain came down, and cried: "Give
her just what you want to disappear, what is that?" Güssy hesitated.
"Her damit!" Jenny screamed and tore it from his hand. "Where
does this patch come from?" "There!" she wailed, "I have these
bitches the whole towel eingeschmiert!" Now young lady came in. Theres.
"My God", they are surprised, "what is it now? But no, that's too much!"
and her face was round like a loaf of bread. "Theres that bring me
down! The annoyed me the tuberculosis in the neck!" "Rosa, now you
tell me," Jenny turned to acting on the Jammer yelling out also
came back Rosa.

"I can not help it!" the insured. "Ich hab 'Traute of the brush
on the nose and it has knocked the nose into the towel wiped." "So?
And why?" "Because they raise me. Because they hänselt me. She says that
what I had with your man had in the dressing room. And I do not like me.
I've never been what happened to your husband had. But it has knutschen
leave. I have myself seen. It is quite verschossen in love with him!
Güssy And there's also seen. "" Have you seen that? "" I have not seen
anything, "said Güssy apathetic," What is it about me? "" Yep's seen
you! " Rosa drove them to, "are even jealous of him! Bist du's perhaps
not?" "Pah!" Güssy threw away, "jealous," "Out in the kitchen!" Jenny
screamed and grabbed one after the other at the sleeves, "ye shall
know me!"
I tell yon my children this:  Go where you
may, commit what crime you may, fall to what depths of degradation you
may, I can never shut my arms, my heart or my door to you.  As long as
I live you shall have one sincere friend; do not be afraid to tell
anything wrong you have done; ten to one if I have not done the same
thing.  I am not perfection, and if it is necessary to sin in order to
have sympathy, I am glad I have committed sin enough to have sympathy.
The sternness of perfection I do not want.  I am going to live so that
my children can come to my grave and truthfully say, "He who sleeps
here never gave us one moment of pain."  Whether you call that religion
or infidelity, suit yourselves; that is the way I intend to do it.

When I was a little fellow most everybody thought that some days were
too sacred for the young ones to enjoy themselves in.  That was the
general idea.  Sunday used to commence Saturday night at sundown, under
the old text, "The evening and the morning were the first day."  They
commenced then, I think, to get a good ready.  When the sun went down
Saturday night, darkness ten thousand times deeper than ordinary night
fell upon the house. The boy that looked the sickest was regarded as
the most pious. You could not crack hickory nuts that night, and if you
were caught chewing gum it was another evidence of the total depravity
of the human heart.  It was a very solemn evening.  We would sometimes
sing "Another Day has Passed."  Everybody looked as though they had the
dyspepsia--you know lots of people think they are pious, just because
they are bilious, as Mr. Hood says. It was a solemn night, and the next
morning the solemnity had increased.  Then we went to church, and the
minister was in a pulpit about twenty feet high.  If it was in the
winter there was no fire; it was not thought proper to be comfortable
while you were thanking the Lord.  The minister commenced at firstly
and ran up to about twenty-fourthly, and then he divided it up again;
and then he made some concluding remarks, and then he said lastly, and
when he said lastly he was about half through.  Then we had what we
called the catechism--the chief end of man.  I think that has a
tendency to make a boy kind of bubble up cheerfully.

We sat along on a bench with our feet about eight inches from the
floor. The minister said, "Boys, do you know what becomes of the
wicked?"  We all answered as cheerfully as grasshoppers sing in
Minnesota, "Yes, sir."  "Do you know, boys, that you all ought to go to
hell?"  "Yes, sir."  As a final test:  "Boys, would you be willing to
go to hell if it was God's will?"  And every little liar said, "Yes,
sir."  The dear old minister used to try to impress upon our minds
about how long we would stay there after we got there, and he used to
say in an awful tone of voice--do you know I think that is what gives
them the bronchitis--that tone--you never heard of an auctioneer having
it--"Suppose that once in a billion of years a bird were to come from
some far, distant clime and carry off in its bill a grain of sand, when
the time came when the last animal matter of which this mundane sphere
is composed would be carried away," said he, "boys, by that time in
hell it would not be sun up."  We had this sermon in the morning and
the same one in the afternoon, only he commenced at the other end.
Then we started home full of doctrine--we went sadly and sole  solemnly
back.  If it was in the summer and the weather was good and we had been
good boys, they used to take us down to the graveyard, and to cheer us
up we had a little conversation about coffins, and shrouds, and worms,
and bones, and dust, and I must admit that it did cheer me up when I
looked at those sunken graves those stones, those names half effaced
with the decay of years.  I felt cheered, for I said, "This thing can't
last always."  Then we had to read a good deal.  We were not allowed to
read joke books or anything of that kind.  We read Baxter's "Call to
the Unconverted;"  Fox's "Book of Martyrs;" Milton's "History of the
Waldenses," and "Jenkins on the Atonement."  I generally read Jenkins;
and I have often thought that the atonement ought to be pretty broad in
its provisions to cover the case of a man that would write a book like
that for a boy.

Then we used to go and see how the sun was getting on--when the sun was
down the thing was over.  I would sit three or four hours reading
Jenkins, and then go out and the sun would not have gone down
perceptibly.  I used to think it stuck there out of simple, pure
cussedness.  But it went down at last, it had to; that was a part of
the plan, and as the last rim of light would sink below the horizon,
off would go our hats and we would give three cheers for liberty once
again. I do not believe in making Sunday hateful for children.  I
believe in allowing them to be happy, and no day can be so sacred but
that the laugh of a child will make it holier still.  There is no God
in the heavens that is pleased at the sadness of childhood.  You cannot
make me believe that.  You fill their poor, little, sweet hearts with
the fearful doctrine of hell.  A little child goes out into the garden;
there is a tree covered with a glory of blossoms and the child leans
against it, and there is a little bird on the bough singing and
swinging, and the waves of melody run out of its tiny throat, thinking
about four little speckled eggs in the nest, warmed by the breast of
its mate, and the air is filled with perfume, and that little child
leans against that tree and thinks about hell and the worm that never
dies; think of filling the mind of a child with that infamous dogma!

Where was that doctrine of hell born?  Where did it come from? It came
from that gentleman in the dug-out;  it was a souvenir from the lower
animal.  I honestly believe that the doctrine of hell was born in the
glittering eyes of snakes that run in frightful coils watching for
their prey.  Sat in his office, was placed in front of the white
book, which was spreading its ideas as it happened, except to put them
later in order as a wise and well thought-out plan, finally took the
pen, but it was all in vain . Not presented any clear and specific to
say. A sea of thoughts and feelings are shaken in spirit, as if
they came on the most violent hurricane, cards and stirring all, where,
instead of creating a harmonious, gushing dark chaos. In this way,
after releasing pen, elbows on the table, right hand on the cheek, spent
long hours without Father and without writing anything. Other times
he was the fourth lengthy steps. Others were thrown into a chair and
covered his face with his hands. Never felt so idle, so incapable and
so infertile. One day closed with the volume in spite that it would
write his notes, and began to write on loose sheets. Then came the
inspiration clearly in distress.

The pen ran precipitated as if the torrent of ideas that I had to pour
it printed a special movement. Why strange spell Father found the
facility to write on loose sheets, so when premioso was writing in
the book? The spell was not in the book or on loose sheets, but in the
case. Father had just decided to write about another, particularly that
cared, that he was concerned for some time, which weighed on him, and
that it was necessary off. For this reason the pen ran. Father was
setting in the role as his innermost soul.
Tell me
that that man is going to hell, who is willing to lose his life merely
to keep a woman and child from the torment of a moment's flame--tell me
that he is going to hell; I tell you that it is a falsehood, and if
anybody says so he is mistaken.

I have seen upon the battlefield a boy sixteen years of age struck by
the fragment of a shell and life oozing slowly from the ragged lips of
his death-wound, and I have heard him and seen him die with a curse
upon his lips, and he had the face of his mother in his heart.  Do you
tell me that that boy left that field where he died that the flag of
his country might wave forever in the air--do you tell me that he went
from that field, where he lost his life in defense of the liberties of
men, to an eternal hell? I tell you it is infamous!--and such a
doctrine as that would tarnish the reputation of a hyena and smirch the
fair fame of an anaconda.

Let us see whether we are to believe it or not.  We had a war a little
while ago and there was a draft made, and there was many a good
Christian hired another fellow to take his place, hired one that was
wicked, hired a sinner to go to hell in his place for five hundred
dollars!  While if he was killed he would go to heaven.  Think of that.
Think of a man willing to do that for five hundred dollars!  It was not
strict or lazy gift Cleophas, and running what the Spirit said to him,
made with the astronomical instrument jigote [113] of glass,
flooding the table sobredicha a cloudy liquor, pickle in which they
retained such Mischief, and making the eyes to the ground, saw in him
a man of small stature, said two crutches [114], dotted with over
bump mark [115], squash ABEDA of neck and head, flat of nose, mouth
and buttressed by two formidable tusks alone, that had no tooth wheel
or the deserts of the gums, the spiky whiskers as if there were bearded
in Hircania [116], the hairs of his birth, sparse, one here and there
[117], to the outside asparagus, vegetable [118] as an enemy of the
company, if not to sell them in bunches, do not meet. Well have
watercress, born about entrepernados with others, such as neighborhoods
of the Court, forgive the malice comparison.

Asco Don Cleophas gave the figure, but I needed them to exit the attic,
the astrologer mousetrap that had fallen fleeing from the dogs that
followed him (except the glove [119] the metaphor), and seizing him by
the hand and Cojuelo saying: 'Come, Mr Cleophas, I want to start paying
what I owe you something, "came the by the buarda as if firing a shot
[120] artillery, not stopping to fly to make standing in the capital
of the tower of San Salvador [121], the higher vantage point of Madrid,
while his watch was the one time that the world was coming to pick up
gradually to the rest of sleep; truces that give care to life, the
silence is common to beasts and men, as they all do the same, having
a remarkable hurry to take off shoes and stockings, panties and jubones,
basquiñas [122] murderers [123], guardainfantes [124], polleras [125],
and petticoats guardapiés, men and women to lie down, leaving
the humanities less measured, and turning to the first original who
started the World Horres all these trinkets and engestándose [126] a
comrade, told the Cojuelo - Don Cleophas, from this picota [127] the
clouds, which is the most prominent place in Madrid, Malan [128 ] to
Menipo in talks Luciano, I will teach you all the more remarkable that
at this time going into this Spanish Babylon, which was in disarray
esotra with her second of this name. And raising the roofs of buildings,
for art diabolical, so puff [129], was discovered meat pastelón
Madrid and then, obviously, that was the very hot summer with less
lattice, and such a variety of bugs in the ark of the rational
world, that the flood, compared with her, was layered and caps.

I said, and I
say again, no day can be so sacred but that the laugh of a child will
make the holiest day more sacred still. Strike with hand of fire, oh,
weird musician, thy harp, strung with Apollo's golden hair; fill the
vast cathedral aisles with symphonies sweet and dim, deft toucher of
the organ keys; blow bugler, blow, until thy silver notes do touch the
skies, with moonlit waves, and charm the lovers wandering on the
vine-clad hills; but know, your sweetest strains are discords all,
compared with childhood's happy laugh, the laugh that fills the eyes
with light and every heart with joy; oh, rippling river of life, thou
art the blessed boundary-line between the beasts and man, and every
wayward wave of thine doth drown some fiend of care; oh, laughter,
divine daughter of joy, make dimples enough in the cheeks of the world
to catch and hold and glorify all the tears of grief.

I am opposed to any religion that makes them melancholy, that makes
children sad, and that fills the human heart with shadow.

Give a child a chance.  When I was a boy we always went to bed when we
were not sleepy, and we always got up when we were sleepy.  Let a child
commence at which end of the day they please, that is their business;
they know more about it than all the doctors in the world.  The voice
of nature when a man is free, is the voice of right, but when his
passions have been damned up by custom, the moment that is withdrawn,
he rushes to some excess.  Let him be free from the first.  "I do not
believe in it, but I obey them." As Thomas Buddenbrookhaus they
become the heroes and actors of the old ideals. The less they are
one inwardly, the more careful they are among them. Attitude!
Tenue! In all, the inner and outer life is the true tradition! Well,
firmly fixed, to determine any daytime! "You and I are too well
educated in order to fit a drama." But this rigid, undermined Convention
knocks life. Nature, spring from the wild, sommerschwülen landscape, the
forests and the oceans, from the animal-vegetative life of the
Gutsdörfer increases, pushing the young Komtessen that, "little intoxicated
ghost, trembling before the request, to deal out, and if they come
out, can not breathe, "in pushing the young barons, the erotic from the
protective conventions in the struggles and dangers of sensual urges
psychological adventure. None penetrates to freedom, they fall back or
flee. Life becomes a shadow and a dream: "You live here as if you would
wake up immediately, and then only with reality to begin." "A dark
sadness made her tired. All this quietly ending her life she weakened
her blood, took her the strength to go down, we sit quietly and wait
until one by one abbröckelt." Besides the noble and bourgeois is the
decomposition of the rural world only form of the physical
page epic significance designed by Wilhelm von Polenz 'Büttner peasants
"(1895) and Peter Rosegger" Jakob the last. " The plight of the
outer world is rural economic development through the corrected
their internal decomposition, which here and there is noticeable
(see Josef Ruederers comedy "The flags Weihe, 1895), close encounters
of life relating to the nature of the landscape, the seasons.

For them to swell those forces shape the rural life again from scratch
and build from renew, as Knut Hamsun's largest modern peasant
novel, a truly old atypical works, has pointed out, the "blessings of
the earth."

Our peasant poets is the severity and magnitude of this relationship has
become difficult. Ganghofer is superficial and sentimental, even
Rosegger is all about popularity and kindness problems in the deeper
meaning - only the "writings of the forest schoolmaster" and "In God
Seeker" stand out - Gustav Frenssens once so famous novels ( "Jörn Uhl"
1901) are fully scenic mood art, but in the worldview of the liberal
Protestant pastor chen ambiguous and blurred, in the characterization
of the main romantic liable persons in the overall presentation and
instructive preacher liable without power structure, without
inner unity of the form. Thomas Ludwig Erdkräftiger rooted peasant novels
"Voest Andreas" and "The Wittiber", but they remain bound naturalistic.
Hermann Stehr "Heiligenhof missing pondering mysticism to his peasants,
and the natural abundance of plastic strength, he is - like all
novels of this ring ends - reflect more than grown. The decomposed form
of bourgeois and aristocratic worlds is the development of German
culture and epic yet does not lead to new forms of life vorgedrungen.
The big cities are as shapeless as the city remained novels.

Max Kretzer Berlin, Munich Michael Georg Conrads novels are nothing more
than fabric and trend. Arthur Schnitzler's attempt at a Vienna style
big novel, "Der Weg ins Freie" is epic in the meaningless of the
Environment and Jewish writers zergangen. A worker's novel of the same
importance of Zola "Germinal" is we do not have. The world of the workers
will be on attack and denial, which crumbled, materialist philosophy
of Marxism only to have their own form durchringen. For the modern
women's movement has a very special woman develops novel. As a
mother and wife, the woman is the source of the epic world, but
the new time tears countless women from the peace of the family and
pushes them into the struggle of personal destiny.

Here, too, are degraded forms of life to overcome and renew. Reuters
Gabriele (born 1859) novels, "From a good family" (1895), "Ellen from
the pastures," "The tears house persuade them, without always the
belief in representation, the trend in pure humanity to be able to
convert. Also Böhlaus Helene (born 1859) Women's polemical novels like
"The right of the mother" and "Halbtier" property is not. But where the
pure femininity of their lifelong natural breaks as grow out of
childishness bright memories of their youth the Weimar "Ratsmädelgeschichten,"
from the leidgeläuterten warm motherliness maturity "the yard" (1895),
the deepest kindness full, full of tragic beauty. Klara Viebig (born
1860) is the actual problems of the woman away novel, it is Naturalistin,
the student Zola. Elementary shoots and design, mass crowd scenes and
passions are her field. The Eiffellandsthaft with their taciturn,
gloomy man, who - once awakened in their passions - terrible blow,
gives her the best of her novels: "The Weiberndorf", "From Hannes Müller",
"The Cross in the Fens." With sharp observation and safe technology
grabs her characters and problems from outside, more than a skillful
writer formative artist. Far above the world of women's novels, about
the world beyond themselves, the novels Ricarda Huch (b. 1864). A
perfectly romantic feeling, the yearning for unattainable
durchschimmert and durchglüht it.

But the unattainable is not the infinite, but the life that in all its
beauty, strength and perfection but a unstoppable, steady offense
is. Although all know how sad and fleeting existence, as "it makes no
sense, things are so tightly connected to the heart to conclude that
we are after a moment of fear must be thrown away again and never see",
but it remains all "provision and Bliss, the sky-high flame of life
with the blast of their nature to nurture. " "O life, O Beauty!" Sung
by all seals Ricarda Huch. The court shows lust, in the dreamy
spülenden Lebensumflut mitzuströmen ", is the ardor of all their
figures. "Take us dead again, oh life," sing the dead. The death of
the life of himself singing a love song. A romantic nature - it is
Ricarda Huch in reflection and awareness of the reality outside. In the
era of romance would have it the infinite longing turned, in the age
of Nietzsche, Bergson, Simmel's blazing her will and tendons in the
metaphysical glow finite, to reality, back to life. This is her life
to the highest, the only value. Their figures are children of reflection
and longing as she, or her wish and counter-image: Children of life.
Metaphysically sounds - even after the buds like "Memories of Ludolf
Ursleu the Younger" - the music of the beauty and fearful of life in
the sketches "The Triumph Street" cosmic sounds in "From the kings
and the crown."

About this metaphysical and cosmic Gelöstheit pushing the historical
novels to reality, to vividly tangible, Festbeharrenden. "The stories
of Garibaldi" Shaping the liberator of Italy to the beautiful artefact,
the mystical-mighty symbol of life, the longing of all living
poet absorbs radiant. As "a tragic prelude" to the winning collection
of sounds Garibaldi novels "The life of Count Confalonieri Frederigo,"
the death of decaying in a dungeon buried hero and martyr.

In those still had vivid and epic-lyric-musical style changed, both here
penetrate, clean, calm, balanced. Soon, however pressing the longing
to reality Ricarda Huch from this Gelöstheit to unilateral, psychologically
autumn report of the three volumes: " The Great War in Germany,
"they are no longer novel, but" representation "is called. Harte
objectivity, impersonality, the strictest inexhaustible wealth of the
Thirty Years War, which happened, the peoples of the generations.
Historical, Cultural History, Religious History, Diplomatic, Strategic,
Biographical driving in endless picture successes in indifferent
epic power over. Designing and fates appear to fall under, restless,
übergraut last question from a sky that is always lower herabsenkt.
The flow of individuation itself seems to us and we vorüberzuziehen
overwhelming sadness in the paralyzing question Friedrich Spees zuzurauschen:
"The one he had experienced: the immensely Earth was far from
God, and if they are now, so he asked himself sometimes shuddering, reach
far it would be? "From the fact that they finally found, the poet
laments the old song of their dark soul and solidifies opposite. - In
the history of the deeper meaning of life to seek the presence of
decomposed deprives them, the excuse has become more epic poet, most
crucially for Wilhelm Schäfer (born 1868) in the "life of a human
friend." As this novel Pestalozzistrasse the migration of the population
and tireless friend by people searching, lunatic, suffering,
ridicule and betrayal to the new humanity penetrates upwards, as a
farmer, "Armennarr" and writer, as a father and orphaned as an angle
schoolmaster, until finally the old man's Menschheitsweg recognized
and fought and European education has developed, which is poignant,
pure humanity, epic in its simplicity and clarity displayed. The bravery
and victory of this individual and the past is any role model and future.
- - - Compared with the industrialized, large cities of northern Germany
decomposed is richer in the south of the immediacy, humanity, root
force remained. Emil Strauss and Hermann Hesse grow out of this context.
Emil Strauss (born 1866) has been home and strangers, swimming and
Brazil, as a poet, farmer and farmer confidence and self-made. Full
of male vigor and clarity, he has struggled with his life without any
disappointment, suffering and disease niedergeworfen or to be unjust.
In freedom, love and kindness, he remained the winner.

He sees and records the reality of solid, secure lines, and they
überglänzt with the unearthly glow of his humor.

In the "angel host," he portrays Schwabenland, the fate of more than
listen to that - because his own wife gives no heirs - in clever excuse
to heranmacht maid. Instead of the boy but a girl comes and umschwirren
scorn and ridicule him. Wounded in his Schwabenschlauheit and vanity,
he goes with the maid and the child of them secretly to Brazil, where
evil still genarrt, geprellt, crouching to be. When the girl dies, he
returns sheepishly and contrite home to abandoned woman, who without
astonishment, without reproach, with a simple, smiling greeting receives
him the child and decreases in natural care is devoted to him: a mature,
capable, Gottfried Kellersche female figure, full of freedom and warmth.
In "Crossroads" is characterized by the development of ostrich three
young characters, from the coincidence of first systems and relationships
in brave strife solve their food and care, and the form itself in the
sphere of humanity a place to conquer. In the "naked man" he goes
into the past of his home, without the concerns of the historical novel
to be overcome. In Freund Hein "and the" mirror "but comes behind
the austere world of his representationalism the deep music of his
soul-sounding expression. In Freund Hein "breaks a high school student
who in the world of his musical vocation lives to the demands of a
unnachsichtigen wesen strange reality. In the "Mirror" sounds like a
delicate chamber music memories from the life of the ancestors of
a living soul music of the same depth as the soul of clarity.

The closer Hermann Hesse (born 1877) of nature is connected, the
less he finds himself in the decomposed form of world civilization
He feels right at home in the naivety of the Italian peasantry, the
worries and selflessness of the country Knulp Streicher, like the
flowers. of the field is close to God directly. From the homelessness
of the world flees "Peter Camenaind" Boppi to the poor cripple, in
his elevator remained within all Lebenszwiespalts, in sickness, poverty,
loneliness and abuse is nothing but love and kindness, and learned
"without shame and to feel weak in God's hands. " And since Boppi dies,
he returns from his "few zigzag flight in the realm of the spirit and
the so-called" education "in his home village," the old angle between
sea and mountains ", resigned. In its loading are the beginnings of a
seal:" I had the desire, in a larger seal the generous people of today
the dumb Live closer to nature and loved to do. I wanted to teach,
to the heartbeat of the earth to hear the life of the whole part and
urge their small fortunes not to forget that we are not gods
and of ourselves created, but children and parts of the earth and the
cosmic whole. "To play the first few books Hesse between man and man
than between man and nature. Mood, desire, dream and Allgefühl,
melancholy and loneliness are her salary.

The soft outlines of the characters blur. But on "Gertrude" and "Rosshalde"
grows to Hesse "Demian", "the story of his youth became a symbol of
the current, struggling and seeking human life shaped. "The
worthlessness of today's ideals" the falsehood of today's communities
of people who all feel that their lives are no longer voting laws that
they live under old boards, "is not used in a broad, epic fresco, but
in the development of a yearning detail. "This world as it is now, wants
to die, they will perish and it will." But from her downfall, from the
turmoil and horror of World War germinates a new togetherness. "In the
depth was something in the making. Something like a new humanity. For
many, I could see, and some of them died at my side - which was liable
to emotional insight has become that hatred and rage, murder and
destruction of objects not linked. No, the objects, as well
as the objectives were entirely coincidental. The Urgefühle, even the
wildest, were not the enemies, their bloody work was only broadcast
of the Interior, in the split soul, what lawn and kill, kill and die
to be reborn to them. "The word THE DRAMA Drama means of action,
insonderheit cult act. Because the drama developed in ancient Greece,
as in the Christian states of Europe from the depths of religious
belief and worship. His last reason is the suffering and mystical
dualism, in which all life is split in it strange, but fighting and
yearning is over: the contrast between God and world, spirit and
nature, imagination and sensuality, and all I am.

Only a God who from heaven herniedersteigt the pain and brokenness of
the finite self is to take Dionysus, Christ, in his interview
Gottmenschentum these opposites to one side and to solve them. His
suffering and his triumph will be the contents of the first dramas:
the Dionysian dithyrambic growing Greek tragedy, from the liturgy
of the Catholic Church, Christmas, and Passions Easter Game of the
Middle Ages.

The Renaissance is in the place of religious belief in the philosophical
and background of European drama. As the mysterious dualism and
oppositeness of life in the major systems of the philosophers,
and suggests that, as soon as this, and soon those of the two opposites
of life is devalued, the other subordinate, as the unit is forced to,
but then again both on the full power and might of unavoidable,
relentless fight each other: the accompanied in unconscious and
conscious commitment to moral development of German drama.

Lessing's dramas grow out of life and significance of rationalism,
Schiller's dramas from Kant, Kleist shares the opposition of the
German philosophy of Kant feel to the atmosphere brews Hebbel Hegel,
Richard Wagner found in Schopenhauer.

Then follows the collapse of the great philosophical systems, the
march of the scientific, materialist worldview in Germany. The
descendants of Schiller on the imitators of the French Society piece
stands out since 1888 Gerhart Hauptmann (born 1862) with a new drama,
suitable style. On what philosophical contexts, the feeling was it
grown? As 1885 The sweet-empty Epigonenzeit our poetry by the literary
revolution of the boys has been replaced, they believed in the
"naturalism" a new life and visual arts to have found. William
Scherer, announced: "The ideologies are come into disrepute. ... We
ask: where are the facts? ... We ask individual studies in which the
phenomenon certainly recognize the forces back, which they called
into being. This scale, we have learned from the natural sciences ...
The same power, which trains and telegraphs to life, the same power
also governs our mental life, she admits with the dogmas of it designed
for the sciences, it expresses the poetry of their stamp. Science moves
in as Triumphator on the victory wagon accompanied that we are all
tied up. "Arno John Wood and sleep believed this ideology, the"
consistent naturalism "the visual arts to have conquered:" The art has
a tendency to re-establish the nature be.

You will be in accordance with their respective reproductive conditions
and their management. "In the three sketches of the" Papa Hamlet ", the
drama" The Family Selicke "they created their teaching performance."

Papa Hamlet "was published under the pseudonym" Bjarne P. Holmsen ". He
has Gerhart Hauptmann's first drama" Before Sunrise "(1889) zugeeignet,
as" the most consistent naturalists in joyful recognition of his book
received a decisive stimulus. "In fact, this suggestion was consistent
the whole neither naturalism Gerhart Hauptmann, nor for any poet of
"crucial" importance of his life and his art was untenable opinions.
From a purely descriptive science, such as science, can never be
a belief, the meaning and value set by His never Shall penetrate.

Nor is a mere Abkonterfeien of life through a naturalistic art possible,
has the process knowledge is - Kant has shown - not passive
imaging, but a form of reality, and all art is the implementation
of the natural in a sense of spirit and stylized world of the artist.

More than the formal world of naturalism, as his visual art have
unsustainable approaches to life from the material world of naturalism
Gerhart Hauptmann the way to free herself made. The naturalism of the
form had been almost everywhere the socialism of the substance, and in
it the germs of a new content: the social compassion.

Among the ethical aesthetic tendencies were underfoot. The development
of the industry and the city, the influences Zola, Ibsen, Tolstoy, she
had awakened. From the frozen and decomposed ideas and shape of the
third world state, the bourgeoisie, had the young poet in social compassion
to the needy struggling form of the fourth stand, the workers on that
issue. And here was the way the captain led in its depths. Even
his first published poetry, the epic "Promethidenlos" (1885), had its
social responsibility and compassion expressed. Taken she appealed to
the poor and the meek to: "To let in your dirt I crouch - Let me go
with you, with you in his misery. " And a poem from 1888 said the sacred
bond of the suffering artist and human: I'm a singer that düstren Tales,
Where everything noble in taking dwindles. - - - You, her moment in
the heights and depths, I am your own, it allowed me not envy! On
my first take each of your arrows.

That those suffering social connectedness not only that they are larger:
the metaphysical depths entwuchs , was the source of the playwright.
Salzbrunn Ober, Hauptmann's birthplace was not far from the
pietist Urgemeinden free grace and Herrnhut. Your Christian inwardness
he was at home, and even more so in the house of his uncle to Striegau,
the sixteen year olds included, to feel life has become. In it, he felt
the rationalism and materialism, the empty culture of technological
era alien.

From the apparent and the outside world he moved to the true, inner world:
the world of soul. Those who revealed to him not with the rich, the
haves, supercilious-Klügelnden, but among the poor in spirit, the
ring ends and the suffering. In them the eternal spark glowed, and
they conquered and claimed him in the storm and strife of their destiny,
not less metaphysical hero in this struggle as the heroes of the
great tragedy.

Now every one of us has the same rights.  I have
the right to labor and to have the products of my labor.  I have the
right to think, and furthermore, to express my thoughts, because
expression is the reward of my intellectual labor.  And yet in the
United States there are states where men of my ideas would not be
allowed to testify in a court of justice.  Is that right?  There are
states in this country where, if the law had been enforced, I would
have been sent to the penitentiary for lecturing.  All such laws are
enacted by barbarians, and our country will not be free until they are
wiped from the statute books of every state.

Does an infinite being need to be protected by a State Legislature?  If
the bible is inspired, does the author of it need the support of the
law to command respect?  We don't need any law to make mankind respect
Shakespeare.  We come to the altar of that great man and cover it with
our gratitude without a statute.  Think of a law to govern tastes!
Think of a law to govern mind, or any question whatever!  Think of the
way in which they have supported the bible!  They've terrorized the old
with laws, and captured the dear, little innocent children and poisoned
their minds with their false stories until, when they have reached the
age of manhood, they have been afraid to think for themselves.  Let us
see what the laws are now, by which they guard their bible and their
God.

[Here the speaker read extracts from the statutes of several states in
reference to blasphemy and profanation of the Sabbath, commenting on
each as he ran them through:]  Pursuing the thread of his discourse, he
said:  Every American should see to it that all these laws are done
away with once and forever.

There has been a reaction of late years.  This country has begun to be
prosperous.  We don't think much of religion; 'tis only when hard times
come we turn our attention toward it.  There are people in this country
who say we are getting too irreligious, too scientific.  Now, is it not
a fact that we are happier today than at any period in our history?
You live in a great country, though perhaps you do not know it.  But
live in any other country for a while, and you'll find it out.  See,
then, what we've got by looking a little to the affairs of the world!
The bible can't stand today without the support of the civil power.  No
religion ever flourished except by the support of the sword, and no
religion like this could have been established except by brute force.

At one time we thought a great deal of clergymen, but now we have got
to thinking they ain't of as much importance as a man that has invented
something.  The church seeing this has made up its mind that it is
necessary to do something, and so got up a plan to be acknowledged by
law.  Here's what they wish to do:  [Here the speaker read some
extracts from the constitution of the National Reform Association.]
Continuing he said:  Our fathers, in 1776, building better than they
knew, retired the gods from politics.  I do not believe Jesus Christ is
the ruler of nations. If he is the ruler of one he is the ruler of all.
Why does he not then rule one as well as another?  If you give him
credit for the good things of one you must denounce him for the tyranny
and despotism of others.  The revealed word of God is not the standing
of civil justice in this country!  The bible is not the standard of
right and wrong or of decency in this country.

You can't put God in the constitution, because if you do there would be
no room for the folks.  Whatever you put in the constitution you must
enforce by the sword, and you can't go to war with any man for not
believing in your God.  God has no business there, and any man that is
in favor of putting him there is an enemy to the interests of American
institutions.

Now for the purpose of preventing the name of God being put in the
constitution, there's another little party has been started and these
are its doctrines:  We want an absolute divorce between church and
state.  We demand that church property should not be exempt from
taxation.  If you are going to exempt anything, exempt the homesteads
of the poor.  Don't exempt a rich corporation, and make men pay taxes
to support a religion in which they do not believe.  But they say
churches do good.  I don't know whether they do or not.  Do you see
such a wonderful difference between a member of a church and the man
who does not believe in it?  Do church members pay their debts any
better than any others?  Do they treat their families any better?  Did
you ever hear of any man coming into a town broke and inquire where the
deacon of a Presbyterian church lived?  Has not the church opposed
every science from the first ray of light until now?  Didn't they damn
into eternal flames the man who discovered the world was round? Didn't
they damn into eternal flames the man who discovered the movement of
the earth in its orbit?  Didn't they persecute the astronomers?  Didn't
they even try to put down life insurance by saying it was sinful to bet
on the time God has given you to live?  Science built the Academy,
superstition the Inquisition. Science constructed the telescope,
religion the rack; science made us happy here, and says if there's
another life we'll all stand an equal chance there; religion made us
miserable here, and says a large majority will be eternally miserable
there. Should we, therefore, exempt it from taxation for any good it
has done?

The next thing we ask is a perfect divorce between church and school.
We say that every school should be secular, because its just to
everybody.  If I was an Israelite I wouldn't want to be taxed to have
my children taught that his ancestors had murdered a supreme being.
Let us teach, not the doctrines of the past, but the discoveries of the
present; not the five points of Calvinism, but geology and geography.
Education is the lever to raise mankind, and superstition is the enemy
of intelligence.

We demand, next, that woman shall be put upon an equality with man.
Why not?  Why shouldn't men be decent enough in the management of the
politics of the country for women to mingle with them?  Still is!
Children who go beyond. Rosa. Why not - Valentin. Still is - sit down
there! Rosa. You! - Valentin (pushing it on the chair). Low-sit! Children
who go beyond. (The kids are going to sell.) Hansel (the departure). No,
in our house was approaching, that's terrible. (Ab) Rosa (jumps up). Now
what solls be? Valentin. Only patience! I do not shame before the
children want, how you understand me! What is you now prefer? Wilt thou
merciful Lord in my house to keep, or I go continue. Rosa. What? What
do you want for stories begin, because a foreign people? Valentin.

Is it strange to you? I am not! One man, thanks I'm guilty, I can not be
alien. Rosa. You're father. You have to look at your children. Valentin.
He is also my child, I've adopted him. Rosa. Nu is a young child. Valentin.
Yes, you are so young as he is not, for you the amount you,
as if you're four years old. Rosa. In short: I am sorry it is not in
the house. Valentin. You do not suffer? Children! enters. (All
Children).

All children. What orders the father? Valentin. Get dressed, you go
with me Hiesel. Where as, father? Valentin. The werds already seen.
On the loop we did not go. Take everything.

Your studies. The name Büchel. The entire library. The plane. The
whole work stuff. Everything! Rosa. Ah, yes that is me not even occurred!
Valentin. Gelt? Oh, there are things of which our philosophy is not
dreaming. Hansel. But today takes the father, which is gscheidt. Rosa
(lift your hands to the side). You want the children out of the house
take? Valentin. I am the cause that they have come into the house,
therefore I can s' from the house take. Liesenfeld. But father, what
should be for that? That would be quite appalling. Valentin (to Liesenfeld).
Will you stay with your mother? Liesenfeld. Yes, it is my duty. Valentin.
So go to it! (Liese goes out.) Boys who go forth to me! (The boys come
to his side.) These are the pillars of my kingdom. The belong to me.
Get ready! (The boys take it all.) Hiesel. What should I still take?
Valentin. The circle, round guy. Rosa. He makes really serious. That
would have my life is not believed. Liesenfeld. Dear mother, give the
mother's. Valentin. So now is the finished extract. Now give eight. Now,
I command: Rechtsum revert you, march!

(Will Forte.) Rosa (remorseful after calling him). You man! Stop! Valentin.
Whats? Rosa. I must tell you one more thing! Valentin (for
themselves). Aha! now catch the sub-plots. (Laut.) Only short! I say the
same. Rosa (softly). Let the children hinausgehn. Valentin. Children,
go outside! Liese (for themselves). Nu Thank God! Hansel. It seems to
me that the mother gives it to. Yes, when men once we start, because it
must stop or go. (The children.) Valentin. So what do you want now?
Rosa (good-natured). Review, but überleg dirs, you will convince you,
I did right. Valentin. Still is, I say. Or I'll call the children
inside. Rosa. So leave it outside. Yes you rip too much shoe, if
they are always out and run again. Valentin. The advantage of everything
you nothing. Aut Aut! Or, either - Rosa. Well, I want me one. Valentin.
Nothing superior. Today he still in the house, and a meal must be
prepared that the whole mankind's hands over the head should beat. Rosa.
Nu me ists recht! But he does not deserve to us. Valentin. What say?
He deserves not? Who is to blame, that we shall live together
peacefully? The fact that I have to be masters and Häusel've since
built, when the two hundred ducats, which I then gradually shifted from
him to give gekriegt hab. Who have we owe to our bissel? Rosa. I was
never like it. Valentin. Is not it! The valet brought you only verschwärzt
with him. Otherwise we would be still in his house. Rosa. Yes if it one
would have. Valentin. Yes way. Since I've completely forgotten it.
Rosa.

He took me down at every opportunity. Once, he even proposed a
whole society said - Valentin. What did he say? Rosa. This I say
not. Valentin. Go, tell me, dear old woman. Go! Who knows ists true?
Rosa. Yes, it is also not true.
I don't believe the wail of want shall be heard
forever; that the prison and gallows will always curse the ground.  The
time will come when liberty and law and love, like the rings of Saturn,
will surround the world; when the world will cease making these
mistakes; when every man will be judged according to his worth and
intelligence.  I want to do all I can to hasten that day.


Ingersoll's Lecture on Talmagian Theology (Second Lecture)


Col. Ingersoll began, "Only a few years ago the pulpit was almost
supreme.  The palace was almost in the shadow of the cathedral, and the
power behind every throne was a priest.  Man was held in physical
slavery by kings, and in a mental prison by the church. He was allowed
to hold no opinions as to where he came from, nor as to where he was
going.  It was sufficient for him to do the labor and believe the kings
would do the governing and the priests the thinking--and, my God, what
thinking!  If the world had obeyed the priests we would all be idiots
tonight.  The eagle of intellect would have given way to the blind bat
of faith. They were the rack, the faggot, the thumbscrew in this world,
and hell in the next.  Only a few years ago no man could express an
honest thought unless he agreed with the church.  The church has been a
perpetual beggar.  It has never plowed, it never sowed, it never spun,
yet Solomon in all his glory was not so arrayed. Thanks to modern
thought, the brain of the nineteenth century, to Voltaire, Paine, Hume,
to all the free men, that beggar--the church--is no longer upon
horseback; and it fills me with joy to state that even its walking is
not now good.  Only a little while ago a priest was thought more than
human.  Nobody dared contradict the minister.  Now there are other
learned professions.  There are doctors, lawyers, writers, books,
newspapers, and the priest has hundreds of rivals.

The priest grew jealous, hateful; he was always thankful for an
epidemic or pestilence, so that people would turn to him in despair.
In our country all the men of intellect were in the pulpit once.  Now
there are so many avenues to distinction the men of brain, heart and
red blood have left the pulpit and gone to useful things.  I do not say
all. There are still some men of mind in the pulpit, but they are
nearer infidels than any others. Where do we get our ministers?  A
young man, without constitution enough to be wicked, without health
enough to enjoy the things of this world, naturally, fixes his gaze on
high.  He is educated, sent to a university where he is taught that it
is criminal to think.  Stuffed with a creed, he comes out a shepherd.
Most of them are intellectual shreds and patches, mental ravelings,
selvage.  Every pulpit is a pillory in which stands a convict; every
member of the church stands over him with a club, called a creed.  He
is an intellectual slave, and dare not preach his honest thought.
There are thousands of good men in the pulpit, honest men.  I am simply
describing the average shepherd; they tell me "they've been called,"
that Almighty God selected them. He looked all over the world and said:
"Now, there's a man I want!"  And what selections!  Shakespeare was not
called.  Yet he has done more for this world than all the ministers who
have ever lived in it.  Beethoven!  He was not called.  Raphael was not
called. He was all an accident.  All the inventors, discoverers,
poets--God never called one of them; he turned his attention to popes,
cardinals, priests, exhorters; and what selections he has made!  It's
astonishing.

In the United States a great many ministers have been good enough to
take me for a text.  Among others the Rev. Mr. Talmage, of Brooklyn.  I
have nothing to say about his reputation.  It has nothing to do with
the question.  Some ministers think he has more gesticulation than
grace. Some call him a pious pantaloon, a Christian clown; but such
remarks, I think, are born of envy. He is the only Presbyterian
minister in the United States who can draw an audience.  He stands at
the head of the denomination, and I answer him.  He's a strange man.  I
believe he's orthodox, or intellectual pride would prevent his saying
these things. He believes in a literal resurrection of the dead; that
we shall see countless bones flying through the air.  He has some
charges against me, and he has denied some of my statements.  He has
produced what he calls arguments, and I am going to answer some of the
charges.  Next Sunday afternoon, at 2 o'clock; in this place, I shall
have a matinee, and answer his arguments.  He says I am the champion
blasphemer.  What is blasphemy?  To contradict a priest?  to have a
mind of your own? Whoever takes a step in advance is a blasphemer.
Blasphemy is what a last year's leaf says to a this year's bud.  To
deny that Mohammed is the prophet of God is not blasphemy in New York.
It is in Constantinople. It is a question, then, largely of Geography.
It depends on where you are.  The missionary who laughs at a modern God
is a blasphemer.  In a Catholic country whoever says Mary is not the
mother of God is a blasphemer.  In a Protestant country to say she is
the mother of God is blasphemy.  Everything has been blasphemy.  My
doctrine is this:  He is a blasphemer who refuses to tell his honest
thought; who is not true to himself; who enslaves his fellow man; who
charges that God was once in favor of slavery.  If there is any God,
that man is a blasphemer. They're afraid we'll injure God.  How?  Is
infinite goodness and mercy to become livid with wrath because a finite
being expresses an opinion?  I cannot help the infinite.  That man only
is the good man who helps his fellow man.  I know then who would do
anything for God, who doesn't need it, but nothing for men, who do need
it.  Why should God be so particular about my believing his book?  It's
no more his work than the stars of gravitation. Yet I may declare that
the earth is flat, and he'll not damn me for that.  But if I make a
mistake about that book I'm gone.  I can blaspheme the multiplication
table and deify the power of the wedge--in fact, the less I know the
better my chance will be.  I say that book is not inspired, and there
is no infinitely good God who will damn one human soul.  At the
judgment, if I am mistaken I own up--I am here, I do not know where I
came from, nor where I am going--I'll be honest about it.  I am on a
ship and not on speaking terms with the captain, but I propose to have
a happy voyage, and the best way is to do what you can to make your
fellow passengers happy.  If we run into a good port, I'll be as happy
an angel as you'll meet that day.  Blasphemy is the cry of a defeated
priest--the black flag of theology--it shows where argument stops and
slander and persecution begin.  I am told by Mr. Talmage that whoever
contradicts this word is a fool, a howling wolf, one of the assassins
of God.  I presume the gentleman is honest.  Take Mr. Talmage, now, he
is a good man. Mr. Humboldt, he was another good man.  What Humboldt
knew and what Talmage didn't know would make a library.

The next charge is that I have said the universe was made of nothing,
according to the bible.  False in one thing, false in all, he says.
Think of that rule.  Let us apply that to man.  If the world was
created, what was it make of?  and who made that? If the Lord created
it, what did He make it of?  Nothing.  That's all He had.  No sides, no
top, nothing.  Yet God had lived there forever.  What did He think
about?  What did He do?  Nothing. Nothing had ever happened.  All at
once He made something.  What did He make it of?  Mr. Talmage explains.

He says if I knew anything I would know that God made this world out of
His omnipotence.  He might just as well made it out of His memory.
What is omnipotence?  Is it a raw material?  The weakest man in the
world can lift as much nothing as God.  Yet He made this world out of
His omnipotence.  It is so stated by a doctor of divinity, and I should
think such divinity would need a doctor!  I don't believe this.  I
believe this universe has existed throughout all eternity--everything.
All that is, is God.  I do not give to that universe a personality that
wants man to get his knees into dust and his fingers in holy water;
that wants some body to ring a bell or eat a wafer.  I am a part of
this universe, and I believe all there is, is all the God there is.  I
may be mistaken; I don't know.  I just give my best opinion.  If
there's any heaven, I'll give it there.  But there'll be no discussion
in heaven. Hell is the only place where mental improvement will be
possible.

I have said, it is charged, that the bible says the world was made in
six days.  He says I don't understand Hebrew.  Trust, not contracts. Gage
must be anyway. But what use is the best contract, even if the Director
could not pay? Here, reliability Flamettis On. He was then able,
with his whole ensemble angling to keep. Another director, the payments.
Flametti When it was possible - and which, even if you no longer stand
on their boards. In what other director yet? What Flametti had been
one of his ensemble. It was not his ambition to make money, bank account
and the like. His ambition was to have a force. Costume? Did you own
numbers? Invented one. He himself, Flametti, he had not made a seal a
Seeweibchen, when man was at the emergency? And an angel from
Ausbrecherkönig? The same angel who had been Bacon Schneider in the
merchant navy? A case he had built, which means a mechanism
attached to the inside even when nailed condition was easy to escape.
Handcuffs he had worked with a subtlety that "Henry" with a jerk of
his tender joints within three minutes in the open stand. Admittedly,
these joints from home belonged to a good and a little skill. But
"Henry" made it. No man had previously believed. A celebrity was
become of him over night. Which director saw the surprise that his
soubrette than Gamsbua occurred Schnadahüpfl and sang only Jokus? Or
that the pianist took the Klampfn and Yodeller the Piston? Flametti also
submitted no value on every night to play. Certainly not in the
small Beiseln, where you clock at six in the evening already had
his post, where the water from the ceiling dripped and pianos pitiful
wire drawers were impossible to produce tones. Jenny liked right: you
should also accept the small business, you must also pay the fees.

But it was not in the treadmill! It was not in the world to
abzustrapazieren! No revision: the man was guilty of his ensemble.
Flametti requested that only his little comity: decency and good
will. Demeanor. Or he was "crazy", which said: everything was short and
small, ran head on the wall, went off with a knife to the gang. "So,
children," cried Flametti, wiped his mouth and put the napkin out "Now
comes the Gage!" He took the key from his pocket, closed the Schieblade
and cried, pointing to the dishes: "Down with the stuff!" Rosa rushed
to the dishes away. The ensemble ears. Even angels stopped to eat now.
And all came closer. "Arista Monsieur," began Flametti, "Sixty francs.
Right? Acknowledge." "True," said Arista, "danke schön".
Receipted with the ink pen, the Flametti him hinschob, and dropped
the money. "Bobby - two francs twenty-seven - here. Right? A second
conto soundsoviel, à conto fourth soundsoviel, à conto fifth, à conto
ensured." He pointed to the individual on receipt of cleared items.
"True, true," said Bobby. "Thank you!" "Here - quit!" Bobby
receipted. "Mr. Meyer - ten francs. Conto A fourth - five francs.
Conto A mind - fifteen francs. Conto A twelfth - five francs.
Right?" Yes, correct. Thank you. "" Laura - five francs. conto A, à
conto, à conto, à conto. " Flametti showed again the individual items
on the receipt. "Yes, true," hesitated the soubrette, a little
confused and disappointed. Actually, she had ten francs expected. She
could also be wrong. "Always the same thing," maßregelte Flametti.
Never knew it, how much they got, and always were a number of five
francs, which they forgot.

But the matter is clarified, and this payment went smooth manner.
"Acknowledge," said Flametti and pushed the pianist-Soubrettenpaar
the forms out. Mr. Meyer wanted to fifteen francs meanwhile together to
eat. But Laura was not in agreement. "No, that does not exist!" she
said quite in love, "this is my money I deserve!" and her friends
looked at the five-Meyer Liverpool to snatch. And when it is not
immediately was successful, a little angry: "What do you because we
have yet no community," Mr Meyer mockingly admitted. "How they have!"
flötete sweet woman Häsli. "How they tease! Just look!" Where a Krakeel
stood in view, she was always full of friendship and sympathy.

"Well then take your already Liverpool Five!" murmured the pianist and
pushed very unwirsch soubrette of the coin out. "Grüatzi!" said the snake
man, lit a cigarette and disappeared. "Addio," said Mr. Arista,
made of a Jodel daughter secretly fiery character and vanished.
"Nice man," remarked Mrs. Häsli to his departure. "So modest and
lieb!" "Mahlzeit!" said Mr. Engel, who had nothing to expect, "come
over later," and was also what Ms. Rosa was very strange, because she
bent down quickly after Nettchen, the dachshund, lifted him up and
turned to dancing with him the paragraph. "Who next?" asked Flametti
busy, but with a bit of reduced security. "Correct: Häsli." And
hurried to the total list. "Twenty-seven francs fifty." Waaaas? "
cried Mrs. Häsli, as the razor tarantula. They bent the upper body into
the hips and remained as frozen as is. "Twenty-seven fifty
francs," repeated Flametti and put the ink pen surprised with the blunt
part on the table. "Twenty-seven francs fifty? Häsli, come!" They
grabbed the husband on the sleeve. "Häsli, come! This is nothing for
us." Häsli turned on the paragraph, and made himself go. He was unpleasantly
affected. "March, march, continue, come!" urged the Jodlerin and grabbed
him again strongly on the sleeve. They gave no mercy. "Well, sometimes
slowly!" Flametti growled. And her daughter drew a grumpy Schnute and
stamped audible indignant "Mother!" But Mrs. Häsli was not swayed.
"No, this is nothing for us!" she raged and shook repelling the raised
hands. "The Häslis are not those who can press, I know already, I
know what the thing. Häsli, come!" "Well what is it?" interested in
Jenny, begütigend and phlegmatic. She came out of the bedroom and
put peaceful on the hair. "Sky God Sacrament!" Flametti now cursed and
jumped from the sofa on. "What's that? What fits you because it
was not, what do you want?

Power but the beak, if you do not like something!" The wrath of his veins
were swollen. He looked like a dancing fakir. Häsli's got the fear,
shook the woman and said sheepishly: "Max, constructed 's times
before!" "There is nothing vorzurechnen!" the old woman cut him from
the floor. "Not necessary. When I hear: twenty-seven francs fifty, you've
got, I had enough. Then you need me vorzurechnen nothing more!" And
fumbled trembling in their blouse.

"What do you want? Flametti screamed even louder and typed with the
index finger to the forehead. "Fifty francs in advance commitment
required -" Both nodded, Mrs. Häsli so hastily, as if they could not
wait to continue to listen. "Thirty à conto to Häsli to Berne -"
"So? So?" broke Häsli woman. "Thirty à conto to Bern for the rag man,
for the Reitschuldamen for scraps?" Her voice grabbed on. "Thirty à
conto to Bern," confirmed Mr Häsli in peace. "Toni, come on!" cried
Mrs. Häsli and grabbed the daughter by the arm. "Toni, come on! Spuck
your father's face! Look at him, as he stands! As if he did not count
on three could! Thirty à conto to Bern! Zuhaus And we starve!" Now
was also Mr. Häsli fuchtig. "Should I, perhaps from the air live?"
Have I not sent them ten francs, and the suitcase off? "" What triggered
a suitcase? The old Scharteke! The suitcase, he has triggered! Thirty
francs he needs to do so. Waterslide ride with with men, with the
waitresses scharwenzeln Mr Häsli back, Mr. Häsli front! Show me not
so, man! "With outstretched hands and pre-brow as she stood in the
notion of him in the throat to drive." Mother! " looking for the
daughter to appease. "silly woman!" brought Mr. Häsli with all the peace
and contempt on the old saw, when he doubts her mind, and looked away
again. "Well, what do you want then?" Flametti screamed and dug
desperately and heated in his papers in order to find the evidence.
"Next!" urged the old woman, "only more!" "Twenty à conto to Toni
on the seventh." "True, true!" urged the old woman, "only more!"
Twenty francs was for a silk blouse of the mother. Now, however,
was Mr. Häsli his astonished. "Twenty francs? For what?" he asked
dumbfounded. "Look after 'Do not!" cried Mrs. Häsli. "Let you prefer
vorrechnen what else comes next. Thus you see what a Peter du bist!"
"Yes, then of course!" Mr. Häsli renounced. "Because everything
has no purpose!

Because yes you can grind as much as you want! If there is only
twenty francs as leaves, five days we continued to house and consume
twenty francs for the cinema, chocolate, for plaster and snails!" care
'to get you! " cried Mrs. Häsli. The venom was her in the mouth
corners. "At the dog möcht 'he bring, and not even treat the few
scraps that you have on your body! Dich kenn' I, my dear, I know exactly
what you plan with us!"

Now you must know that Häsli wife was not too fun. In Antwerp and St.
Pauli had served sailors. A Gummiknüttel belonged to their equipment,
and the cashier was bag with iron chains on leather straps attached.
Guys had beaten them down, tree-length, when it came out. The vaudeville
career was her quiet. With it was not fun. So also gave Mr. Häsli
small, and went further with the settlement. "Then on the twelfth
twenty-two fifty francs advance for room and consumption -" The
Häslis lived together a room in an inn, which the Women themselves
had chosen, but Flametti paid because he had connections with the host.
"Okay, fine," Häsli woman waved from, "I know enough. twenty-seven
Stay francs fifty.'s true. Yes, true. Häsli, acknowledge we go. "
It pushed the daughter with both hands as criminals from a pub in
front of the door. "We do not. Can take everything ourselves. I for
my part, wants nothing of it. We earn us our bread." And besides Häsli
woman's daughter had disappeared . Nettchen barked. Jenny turned rose
in the face restrained worse. Mr. Häsli receipted and Flametti pushed
him out the money. "Meal, Max!" said Mr. Häsli and regretting crestfallen.
"Nothing for ungut!" and ranged Flametti the hand.

"salü!" said Flametti unofficial and grabbed his things. Even Mr.
Meyer and Miss Laura went. Actually, they had to ask for allowance.
The opportunity seemed to them but not cheap.

II "Do you see the anarchists," said Jenny, as were all gone, "you see
it now? Need just a few days to have no business - no matter they are
abundant. Only in embarrassment you need to come - even run her
away. trout must I forward them, which for eight kilos francs. Then you
should see it! This Häsli - oh my god you's as they arrived! For grace
and mercy has taken it . This is the thanks. famished, they were, that
God is mercy. Now they are at once elegant .-- What do we, Max?

You will see us they run away! "But Max did not feel like meditations.

"Ah what!" he said angrily unwirsch and kramte in his desk drawer.
The door went up and came in. Miss Theres, festering lame and sullen.
The rheumatism plagued them especially today. In the dull hang a hand-held
angerauchten cheroots with acute and blew smoke from the mouth itself.
Unsolicited they took place, kneaded her painful gout legs and turned
schnaufend on the chair. "Woman," she said, "will be ironed?" "Yes,
Theres, make the iron hot." And Theres rose laboriously and troßte
from the hot iron to make. And Miss Rosa set the carpet on the ironing
table and brought the laundry basket from the lumber shed to wash
einzuspritzen. Flametti but had while completing the Schieblade an
injury at the castle found zückte the house keys and so on hammered
keyhole . It knocked. The door went up and joined in. Miss Lena,
former pianist for Flametti. "Grüatzi!" she said and pushed up into
three waves friendly look. "Day, Lena!" Jenny nodded, "just come in."
"When it is allowed!" said Lena. "Day, Lena!" Flametti affirmed,
without aufzusehen, so absorbed was he in its repair. "irons you?" asked
Lena. "Yes, we are ironing," Jenny wiped the sweat hands on the
bosom. Theres brought the iron, and Lena took her chair. "beautiful
things one hears!" Lena moved to cope on her chair. "For God's sake,
Lena, what is there?" "Yes, yes," sighed Lena. "Then what, Lena? Say
it!" And to Rosa: "Go out times in the kitchen I call you then! "Flametti
hammered pressing and zeal on the keyhole." So is listening, "Lena
stressed her skirt to the feet," they make you out, where they can.
They say that it is rutschab: it pays No more fees, there is nothing
to eat.

You'll get no more business. degrees hab 'I Boll arable taken. The
hat's but the Häsli. From a Turk, they have told and opium. I do not
know what you did there . But they said it was brenzlich them and they
would be based on a commitment to others. "" What did they tell? "
Jenny is crouched. "Such vulgarity! Such an infamy!

Hear you, Max, what they scatter and how they take revenge? Your Gadsche
has instructed that he herumgeht and the financial spoils us! Such an
infamy! - Do you know what, Max? They want even start. The run us .--
We continued, no more business! Lena, one runs the sore feet that
we play! At the door starts to get off! rübergehen We needed only to
the "crocodile" -- You know the "Crocodile!" A one, three hundred
francs top money, but we do not want to, because we are new rehearsal.
You know, the roast was slightly burnt. This has Old verbiestert so that
they are now everywhere excesses, they would have to starve us. You
know our diet! Have three years with us. Have you ever had to
complain? Have you anything left? "Lena shook her head. No, she had
never had to complain, nor was it ever anything left. Max hammered
violently with his house key at the lock shop Schieb." Well, good 'night,
"cried Jenny," I am the Director should be! I would otherwise bulbs!
Here are the Gage, soundsoviel vent and the shoe to the ass!
Down stairs. "" Yes yes, I hear it! "Went Flametti now on." I hear it.
I'm not deaf! Silly chatter! "Jenny was surprised. Miss Lena, too.
He had not yet listened! He had but to labor in the castle! Flametti
stood up very quickly, krempelte down his shirt sleeves, the buttons
Halsbördchen and went into the kitchen to their hands to wash. He
came back, took jacket and hat and went. "Since you have it!" Jenny
complained, "there he goes. Ah, Lena, I am quite desperate! So he
makes it forever. Since he has the history with the Turks, as he is
twisted. Hardly the spoon from the mouth - he continued. Everything
possible hab 'I tried. He hears me not once. We go to ground. I seh's
ja. What should I do? "" Well, "Lena said," what is there to do? "Flametti
this was" total "breach. Certainly, he loved his wife. It was a little
timid of mind and easy to exaggerations inclined like all the
terrible position and excited minds.

But they thought it good, was not an evil nature, and he would like
her a little gift can be heard. But he estimated it is not, in his
business - and family secrets coram publico negotiated to be seen.
Certainly, the Business went bad. Bad times and not hit. Certainly, an
ensemble of ten people living demands are unable to nourish
pursuant to clothe and triumphs to be guided. Furthermore, a penalty
of concubinage hundred and eighty francs was to be paid - the officers
of the Criminal Investigation Department had already twice presented
with the bill for - and the fishing could not deny. Flametti knew the
hits themselves, but do not fall from the sky. He had his plans. It
took him not to rush and half the neighborhood is in it. Gar Lena
this: A beautiful piece Malheur! The had then just come! Grausliches
woman! No gallant memories from his time was director Flametti unpleasant
than that. A vampire. Not from the main track, when they had once
tasted blood. Sound, she was , as a pianist. she also spoke Russian,
Lodz ago. But a mouth works like she had a sword. An evil tongue.
And now understood Flametti not, as Jenny is letting her could. We
should leave him alone. It is it already made. The two hands in
trouser pockets in, so that the rear skirt lap far distance, the
breitkrämpigen felt in the forehead deeply moved, happy, happiness
escaped his home to be sent Flametti to a corridor to his spot.
This area was called "grazing fox" and was the concert - and entertainment
district all lebenslustig-secluded districts of the city. Treffpunkt
the big world, hiding some uncertain elements are added. But all in
all, a Monaco and Monte Carlo in small. Flametti felt free as a prince.
Hader all fell away from him. That left him faint. Here he knew every
road, every bridge, every pub, each latrine. Here was the rock
that had cracked here. This was the cube, here it was at home.
Alteisengeschäft passing on of Mr. Ruppel and the 'Dragon Castle',
past the fish act "Teut" with its giant aquariums full dull-witted
pike and carp, passing "Hähnlein clothes Bazaar" and "Lichtlis
hairdresser"; past the "Olive Tree" and at the "tulips bloom," Flametti
swings in the main artery of the fox willow, the source Bucklige Street.
He slowed his steps and klimperte about radically, with the money in
your pocket. He sniffed in the air, the smell of coffee, and lit a
cigarette. Here was the parade! This was the operation, it widened
his chest and he breathed on. No face that he did not know. No Charge,
with the holder does not have exchange and shops had. On the "Monk
Square" and the cats were dressed in the sun. It was a lot cats, gray,
black and red. But it was enough space there for them. At night
they were singing high up on the roofs. On the "Monk Square" noise
the children. They dressed each other's noses, tied to each other's
pants, cleaned the heads. But for every head, the sun a little Gloriole.
on the "Monk Square" jumped Miss Frieda, the waitress that skirts
flew.

"Servus Flametti!" she exclaimed. It was a pleasure to live. The
Meyers had low move today. On a rolling cart, they had packed their
things, but the canary. The man pushed. The woman helped press. The
children also helped the small press, and Peter lifted the objects
that were created by car herunterfielen. "Where does it now?" cried
Flametti. And Mr. Niedermeyer cried: "Kuttelgasse 33, V.!" "Pleasant
Flohbiß!" Flametti called back. He was a great man's and could afford.
The hands in his trouser pockets, breitspurig and heavy, weighty step
onto the patch set, he walked over to the post office. "A five-card!"
The officers handed him the card and wrote to Mr Flametti Fritz snipe,
Local variety, Basel: "Dear friend! parts to me, please, immediately,
whether you're tilted, Flamettis engaging vaudeville ensemble for the
period from December 1-31 this year, and the terms and conditions.
We have new numbers louder , first-class attractions, and it is likely
only in your interest, you my ensemble for the possible time to secure.
Flametti Your faithfully. "then reverts back to the source of road
and turned on Luftgäßlein past, past the small, but because of its
wines Inn to the famous "three stars", past the hole with the murder
trattorias "Hopfen Gemini" and "Jerichobinde", past the Stutenreite
in the Upper Träufe.

It was a career full of hard work thoughts. In Proceed Flametti used
for thought. With seemingly similar stroll he found the best decisions.
Two men came down the street, geradenwegs to him. Cursed again! One
elegant, black mustache aufgekräuselt, smooth, Feist and face turning
bright eyes. The other hager, fanatical, nervously: "Peter and Paul."
A shepherd, Patten lightweight, low hanging tail waving, wippend followed
them on foot. Flametti put their hands deeper into his pockets,
strengthened its course a considerable step up and saluted: "salü!"
The two took him up sharply Korn, mustered inconspicuously with a
quick glance his suit and went over.

Mr. Abraham Cohn stood under the door of his magazine "To
Chnusperhüsli". He indicated with his head after the two officers walking
gently.

Flametti used the opportunity to stop and said: "The Apostle to go!" "What
wolln se?" Mr. Cohn said, "must se mer hamm. Wär otherwise mer sure?"
Flametti entered and bought a bag Leckerli. He went on and returned
an inn "Zum ostrich" where stuffed Gebirgsgemse and balzende Auerhahn
standing, right and left of the entrance. The Auerhahn wore the fish
beigedruckten card with prices around the neck. The Gebirgsgemse bared
teeth, quite unnecessarily, death and saw the sky, a symbol of their
homeland. On the shelf of rocks and moss were scattered hair, which
they had left in the fight with the scrubbing brush in the house
servant.

Flametti and overflew joined with an eagle glance, the three guests who
were gathered here. Cursed again! In the corner sat Kranemann!
Kranemann, the mosquito face; Kranemann the geschniegelte infamy
and correctness; Kranemann, Flamettis bitter enemies.

That was not expected. Pondered a moment Flametti.

Should he repent? Soller do than he did in the wrong place? Should
he take the hat and greet "salü! Komme later?" There stood but
Kranemann already came up to him, such as accidental, and said:
"Ah, Flametti! - What is with the receipt? When will they redeemed?
Highest Deadline! "" Hoi, hoi, hoi! " the bucks and stepped back
a step. "Only slowly! Let first dismount, Damisch guy!" And now decided
to stay. "Nix da!" Cranes man cried and took it easy at the collar,
"Today is the deadline!
Somebody has been lecturing on Sunday.  Then the tribe hunted
out the wicked man.  They said you've got to stop. We cannot allow you
to continue your wickedness, which brings punishment upon the whole of
us. What is the reason they allow me to speak tonight.  Because the
Christians are not as firm in their belief now as they were a thousand
years ago.  The luke warmness and hypocrisy of Christians now permit me
to speak tonight.  If they felt as they did a thousand years ago they
would kill me.  So religious persecution was born of the instinct of
self-defense.  Is there any duty we owe to God?  Can we help him, can
we add to his glory or happiness?  They tell me this God is infinitely
wise, I cannot add to his wisdom; infinitely happy--I cannot add to his
happiness.  What can I do?  Maybe he wants me to make prayers that
won't be answered.  I cannot see any relation that can exist between
the finite and the infinite. I acknowledge that I am under obligations
to my fellow man.  We owe duties to our fellow man.  And what?  Simply
to make them happy.

The only good, is happiness; and the only evil, is misery, or
unhappiness.  Only those things are right that tend to increase the
happiness of man; only those things are wrong which tend to increase
the misery of man.  That is the basis of right and wrong.  There never
would have been the idea of wrong except that man can inflict
sufferings upon others.  Utility, then, is the basis of the idea of
right and wrong.

The church tells us that this world is a school to prepare us for
another, that it is a place to build up character.  Well, if that is
the only way character can be developed it is bad for children who die
before they get any character.  What would you think of a school-master
who would kill half his pupils the first day?

Now, I read the bible, and I find that God so loved this world that He
made up His mind to damn the most of us.  I have read this book, and
what shall I say of it?  I believe it is generally better to be honest.
Now, I don't believe the bible.  Had I not better say so?  They say
that if you do you will regret it when you come to die.  If that be
true, I know a great many religious people who will have no cause to
regret it--they don't tell their honest convictions about the bible.
There are two great arguments of the church--the great man argument and
the death-bed. They say the religion of your fathers is good enough.
Why should your father object to your inventing a better plow than he
had.  They say to one, do you know more than all the theologians dead?
Being a perfectly modest man I say I think I do.  Now we have come to
the conclusion that every man has a right to think. Would God give a
bird wings and make it a crime to fly?  Would he give me brains and
make it a crime to think? Any God that would damn one of his children
for the expression of his honest thought wouldn't make a decent thief.
When I read a book and don't believe it, I ought to say so.  I will do
so and take the consequence like a man.  And so I object to paying for
the support of another man's belief.  The Prince Fifth appearance. As
far as he wants! - (Opposite the picture.) For you I've yet to be any
price Wohlfeil .-- Ah! beautiful works of art, is it true that I have
you - who you also had, schoenres Meisterstueck nature!

- What you want to get, honest mother!

What you want, old Murrkopf! Fodre only!

HEREBY INVITES only - prefer to buy 'ich dich, sorceress, by yourself!
- This eye full grace and humility!

This mouth!

- And when he opens for talking! when he smiles! This mouth - I hear
come .-- Still I'm with you too jealous. (By the picture against the
wall drehet.) It will be Marinelli. Hätt 'I do not call it! What can
order a morning 'I have! Sixth appearance Marinelli. The Prince.
Marinelli. Gracious Lord, You will forgive me .-- I was such a command,
not early pursuit. The Prince. I got Lust, extended. The morning was
so beautiful. - But now he is probably elapsed, and the lust is
gone to me. - (After a short silence.)

What we have new, Marinelli? Marinelli. Nothing of concern, which I knew
.-- The countess is Orsina came to town yesterday. The Prince. This
is also her good morning (in their letter pointing) or what else it
might! I'm not that curious .-- You have spoken? Marinelli. Am I,
unfortunately, not their confidant? - But if I have it back by a lady
will, it einkoemmt you in good earnest to love, Prince: so - The
Prince.

Nothing verschworen, Marinelli! Marinelli. Yes? In fact, Prince? Can
order 'but it come from? - Oh! so like the Countess so wrong do not
have. The Prince. However, very wrong! - My close marriage with the
princess of Massa wants to be, all that I like for the first Haendel
cancel. Marinelli. If it only would be: it must be left to Orsina
in their fate to know as much as the prince in his. The Prince.
The ground harder than theirs. My heart is the victim of a miserable
state interest. Your may only zuruecknehmen, but will not reflect away.
Marinelli. Zuruecknehmen? Zuruecknehmen Why? asked the countess, when
there nothing else than a wife, which the prince does not love,
but the policy zufuehret?

In addition to a wife, the lover is still their place. Not as a
wife fears she aufgeopfert to be, but - The Prince. A new lover. - Well?
Wanted me to make it a crime, Marinelli? Marinelli. I - Oh! You are
confusing me not, my prince, with the Naerrin whose word I lead -
out of compassion lead.

Because yesterday, verily, it has me curious geruehret. They wanted
their matter with you, did not speak. She wanted to be very calm
and cool. But in the middle of the indifferent conversation escaped
her a turn, a relationship over the others, who tortured her heart
betrayed.

The funniest being, she said the melancholy of things: and turn the
ridiculous antics of allertraurigsten Miene. She has the books made
their refuge, and I fear that they will give her the rest.

The Prince.

Just as it's poor understanding even the first shock given .-- But I
am primarily concerned with what it has removed that you want but do
not need Marinelli me back to her back - if they love is foolish, it
would it, sooner or later, even without love has become - And now,
enough of her. - From something others! - Geht because nothing
before in the city? - Marinelli. Virtually nothing .-- Because that
the combination of the count completed Appiani today - is not
much more than nothing. The Prince. Of Count Appiani? and with
whom then? - I will still hear that he has promised. Marinelli. The
thing is have been kept secret. Was not too much fuss of it .--
You will laugh, Prince .-- But it is the sensitive! The spielet love
them always the worst pranks. A girl with no property and no place has
it in their noose to pull knew - with a little larva, but with great
splendor of virtue and feeling and wit - and what I know? The Prince.
Who are the impressions, the innocence and beauty to him, without
further consideration, it may be quite over - I daechte, which would
tend to be envied than to belachen .-- And how does because happy?

Because when all is Appiani - I know well that you, Marinelli, it can
not suffer, nor when he was you - in all he is a very decent young man,
a nice man, a rich man, a man full of honor. I would highly
desired, it can connect to me. I will still think about it. Marinelli.
If it is not too late .-- Because I hear so much, his plan did not at
court to make his fortune. - He wants with his mistress after his
valleys of Piedmont - chamois hunting in the Alps, and marmots
abzurichten .-- What can he do better?

Here it is through the Missbuendnis, which he takes with him from. The
Circle of the first houses he is now closed - The Prince. With your
first houses - in which the ceremony, forced the boredom and not
infrequently the slim herrschet so .-- But tell me they do,
of this so he brings great sacrifice. Marinelli. There is a
degree of Emilia Galotti. The Prince. How, Marinelli? a certain
- Marinelli. Emilia Galotti. The Prince. Emilia Galotti - never!
Marinelli. Reliable, gracious Lord. The Prince. No, I say, it's not,
it can not be .-- You are wrong in the name .-- The sex of Galotti
is great .-- A Galotti may be: but not Emilia Galotti, not Emilia!

Marinelli. Emilia - Emilia Galotti! The Prince. Thus, there is one,
which leads both names .-- You said ohnedem, Emilia Galotti a degree -
a degree. From the right can only speak as a fool - Marinelli. You
are beside himself, gracious Lord .-- Do you know this because Emilia?
The Prince. I have to ask Marinelli, he is not .-- Emilia Galotti? The
daughter of the Supreme Galotti at Sabionetta? Marinelli. Precisely.
The Prince. The here in Guastalla lives with her mother?

Marinelli. Precisely. The Prince. Unfern the Church of All Saints?
Marinelli. Precisely. The Prince. With one word - (By the portrait
after he jumps and the Marinelli in the hand.) There! - This? These
Emilia Galotti - Say your fucking "precisely" again and shock
me with the dagger into the heart! Marinelli. Precisely! The Prince.
Executioner - This - This is now Emilia Galotti - Marinelli. Appiani
Countess - (Here the tears of Prince Marinelli the image again from the
hand and throws it aside.) Geschiehet The ceremony in silence, on the
Good land of his father in Sabionetta. At noon drive mother and
daughter, the Count, and maybe a few friends from there. The Prince
(which is full of despair in a chair raises). So I am lost - I will
not live! Marinelli. But what about you, gracious sir? The Prince (who
jumps on him again). Traitor! - What I am? - Well, I love her, I adore
them. Do you like it but know you may know it but have a long, all
that great, I prefer Orsina opprobrious shackles forever bear! - Only
that you, Marinelli, which you so often I am your sincere friendship
insured - O Fuerst has no friend!

friend can not have - that you, you, so faithless, so gloating me
up to this moment, the risk may conceal who threatened my love: if I
ever forgive you - so I will not forgive my sins! Marinelli . I can
hardly find words to Prince - if you come to me let - you indicate to
my astonishment .-- They love Emilia Galotti - then oath against
oath: If I love this the least known, the slightest suspicion had let
neither angel nor saint of me know! - Ebendas wollt 'ich in the
soul of the Orsina swear.

My suspicion sweeps on a completely different track. The Prince. So
forgive me, Marinelli - (by moving him into the arms raised) and I
apologize. Marinelli. Now that, Prince!

Do you see as the fruit of your restraint! - "Fuersten have no friend!
Can have no friend!" - And the cause, if so? - Because they do not
want to have .-- Today they honor us with their confidence tell us
your secret desires with us close to all her soul: and tomorrow we
are so alien to them as if they had never had a word with us by. The
Prince. Ah! Marinelli, how could I trust you, which I hardly wanted
to admit? Marinelli. And that is probably even less of your
spoiled originator have confessed? The Prince. Your? - All my
effort is in vain had it for a second time to speak .-- Marinelli.
And the first time - the prince. Language I - Oh, I come to your senses!
And I will tell you for a long time - you can see me a prey of the
waves: what to ask you a lot as I become? Save me if you can: and then
ask. Marinelli. Rescue? is there much to save? - What you have failed,
gracious Lord, Emilia Galotti to confess that you now admit the Countess
Appiani. Were obtained from the first hand can not have it, buy it
from the second - and such goods are not uncommon from the second
to as much probably Feiler. The Prince. Seriously, Marinelli, seriously,
or - Marinelli. Admittedly, even so much worse-the prince.

They are outrageous! Marinelli. And so will the count from the country
.-- Yes, it would be something to think differently .-- The Prince.
And on what? - Liebster, best Marinelli, do you think of me. What would
you do if you would be in my place? Marinelli. Above all, a trifle than
a trivial view - and I say that I would not be in vain, what I am -
Lord, The Prince. You flatter me with a violence that I foresee no use
here .-- Now, you say? today? Marinelli. Only today - should it
happen. And things just happened is not to guess .-- (After a short
deliberation.) Would you give me a free hand to Prince? Would you approve
what I do? The Prince. All Marinelli, everything these strings can be
avoided. Marinelli. So let us not lose time .-- But you do not
stay in the city. Take immediately after your pleasure palace,
according to Dosalo. The way to go because Sabionetta over. If I fail,
the Count immediately to remove it: I think so - But, but, I think he
is certainly in this case. They want Prince, because of her marriage
a messenger sent to Massa?

Let the Count's envoy to this, with the condition that he still abreiset
.-- Do you understand? The Prince. Excellent! - Take it out to me. To
you, rush you. I immediately throw myself into the carriage. (Marinelli
geht ab.) Seventh appearance The Prince. Immediately! immediately! -
Where was it? - (It is looking after the portrait.) On Earth? That was
too much! (As he lifts it.) But consider? I look like you at first no
more .-- Why should 'I am the arrow still deeper into the wound
Click? (Set it aside) - Geschmachtet, I geseufzet long enough - longer
than I would have gesollt: but nothing is done!

and tenderness over inaction at a hair lost everything - but now, if
everything would be lost? If Marinelli does not align? - Why do I
want to leave him alone? It is me - by this time (after seeing the
clock) for hours in fact maintains the pious girl all morning at the
Dominicans to the fair hearing .-- What if I have to speak because she
was looking for - but now , today at their wedding days - today, you
find other things to the heart than the fair .-- But who knows? - There
is a walk .-- (He rings, and by some of the papers on the table hastily
zusammenrafft, enters the chamber servant enters.) Let ahead! - If
none of the councils there? The valet. Camillo Rota. The Prince. He
should come. (The valet's up.) Only he must stop me do not want. Dasmal
not - I am happy his concerns at other times so much longer to services.
- There was as yet in the petition of Emilia Bruneschi .-- (you
searching.) The .-- But it's good Bruneschi where your Eighth appearance
Vorsprecherin Camillo Rota, scriptures in hand. The Prince. The Prince.
Come, Rota, you .-- Here is what I affixed this morning. Not much
comforting - you will of course see what's important to have .-- Take
only. Camillo Rota. Well, gracious Lord. The Prince. Yet here is a
petition of Emilia Galot .. Bruneschi .-- I want to say I got my permit
while already contributed replaced. But - the thing is no small matter
.-- Let the copy still pending .-- Or not be made: as you want. Camillo
Rota. Not like I want, gracious Lord. The Prince. What else? Something
to write about? Camillo Rota. A death sentence would be signed. The
Prince. Law like her .-- Only! quickly. Camillo Rota (the prince aback
and rigid viewing). A death sentence - it says' I do. The Prince. I hear
so well .-- It could have happened. I'm haste. Camillo Rota (after
seeing his writings). Now I have it but probably not with them! - Excuse
me, gracious Lord decency .-- It may thus have until tomorrow. The
Prince. Too! - Unpack only together, and I must continue - Tomorrow,
Rota, More! (Geht ab.) Camillo Rota (shaking his head, by the papers
and taking off). Like right? - A death sentence quite happy - I had 'it
in this moment do not like to write, and if it is only the murderer
of my son would have affected .-- Right gladly!

Right happy - I'm through the soul of this horrible law like! Second
Elevator The scene: a room in the house Galotti.

First appearance Claudia Galotti.

Pirro. Claudia (Come on out to Pirro, the other side of the hereintritt).
Who sprinkled as the court? Pirro. Our Lord, madam.

Claudia. My husband? Is it possible? Pirro. He follows me on the
foot. Claudia. How unexpected? - (Him charity.) Ah! my best!

Second appearance Odoardo Galotti and the former. Odoardo. Good morning,
my love! - Not true, which means surprise - Claudia.

And in the nicest way! - If it differently just to be a surprise.
Odoardo. Nothing more! Be safe. - The luck of the day woke me so
early, the morning was so beautiful, the road is so short, I guess
you are so busy - How easily they forget something that occurred
to me .-- In a word, I come and look, and immediately go back .--
Where is Emilia?

Employs common ground with the plaster? - Claudia. Your soul! -
It is in the fair .-- "I have today, more than any other day of grace
from above to crave," she said and did everything, and took off her veil,
and rushed - Odoardo. All alone? Claudia. The few steps - Odoardo.

One is enough for a misstep - Claudia. Do not be cross, my best, and
come inside - a moment to rest and when you want to take a refreshment.
Odoardo. Like you, I, Claudia .-- But they should not be left alone
.-- Claudia.

And you, Pirro remains here in the hall, all visits to Make today.
Pirro third appearance and soon Angelo. Pirro. The only out of curiosity
Report .-- What can I do an hour since not everything has been
questioned!

- And who ways; the point there?

Angelo (half behind the scene in a short coat, he pulled over the face,
the hat in the forehead). Pirro - Pirro! Pirro.

An acquaintance? - (By Angelo hereintritt completely and the sheath
auseinanderschlaegt.) Sky! Angelo - Du? Angelo. As you can see .-- I'm
long enough around the house herumgegangen thee to speak .-- In a word
- Pirro. And you dare to return to the light to come?

- Du bist since your last vogelfrei Expound to murder, on your head is
a reward Angelo. The but you will not want to earn? - Pirro. What
do you want?

- I beg you, do not make me unhappy. Angelo. This perhaps? (Him a bag
of money showing.) - Join! It belongs to you! Pirro. Mir? Angelo. Have
you forgotten? The German, thy Lord previous - Pirro.

Schweig them! Angelo. You us on the way to Pisa, in the case leads -
Pirro. If someone heard us! Angelo. Had the kindness to provide us a
valuable ring to leave .-- Do not you?

- It was too precious, the ring, as we suspected he had said at once
without too can make money. Finally I managed it so. I did get one
hundred guns, and that is your share. Join us! Pirro.

I like nothing - keeps everything. Angelo. I am concerned - if you
like a lot is how high you wear your head for sale - (As if the
bag he again wanted to insert.) Pirro. To give only! (Does it.) - And
now what?

After that you just why I should have chosen - Angelo. The ways; the
point you do not really believe before?

- Scoundrel! What do you think of us - that we are able to withhold
someone's earnings? That may be among the so-called honest people
fashion: among us not .-- Farewell!

- (Tut, as if he wanted to go, and returns again.) One I have to ask
yes .-- Then came the old Galotti so all alone in the city blown up.

What is this? Pirro. Nothing he wants, a purely Spazierritt. His
daughter is tonight at the Good, from whom he herkoemmt, Count
Appiani angetrauet.

He can not expect the time - Angelo. And riding out again soon? Pirro.
As soon as it hits you here, where you have long forgiven. - But you've
got no attack on him? Take care. He is a man - Angelo. Kenn, I do not?
I have not covered him gedienet?

- If a question only he would get much too! - If the young people go
after? Pirro. Around noon. Angelo. With much support?

Pirro. In a single car .-- The mother, the daughter of Graf and a few
friends come from Sabionetta as witnesses. Angelo. And serviced?
Pirro.

Only two, except me, I should voraufreiten horses.

Angelo. That's good .-- Still one: what is the Equipage? Is it you? or
the Count? Pirro. Of the Count. Angelo. Evil!

There is still a pioneer, except for a solid coach. But! - Pirro. I am
amazing. But what do you want? - The little jewels that the bride
should have some, it is hardly worth the trouble - Angelo. So the bride
is worth its own! Pirro.

And even if this crime should I be your accomplice? Angelo. You ride
vorauf. But ride, ride! and turn away to nothing! Pirro. Never! Angelo.
How? I believe that you want to play the steadfast belief. lad! I
think you know me .-- Where you plauderst! Where one finds a different
circumstance, as you stated it to me! - Pirro. But, Angelo, in order of
heaven's sake! - Angelo. Do not let what you can! (Geht ab.) Pirro.
Ha! Let the devil in a hair hold, and you'll be forever! Unfortunately
I! Fourth appearance Odoardo and Claudia Galotti. Pirro. Odoardo. It
remains for me to round off - Claudia. Yet a moment, Odoardo! It would
hurt them, so your sight to miss. Odoardo. I need also to the Count nor
opponent. Hardly can I expect's this worthy young man to call my
son. Everything he charmed me. And above all, the decision to include
in his father's valleys themselves to live. Claudia .-- That breaks
my heart when I remember in this whole .-- So should we lose it,
this single, beloved daughter?

Odoardo. What you call, they lose? In the arms of love to know?
Merge your pleasure at her not with their happiness .-- You want to
renew my old suspicion - that the more noise and distraction of the
world, the more immediate vicinity of the audit was the need for
our daughter a decent education to give what you did here in the
city to stay with her - away from a husband and father who love you
so much.

Claudia. How unjust, Odoardo! But let me now just one word for this city,
for those close to the court, which you hated so strict virtue .--
There are only here could bring together the love of what was created
for each other.

Here only the Count Emilien could find and found her. Odoardo. The
rooms I have a.

But, good Claudia, did you question right, because you are quite the
original - well, that with education as the city has expired! Let us
not to want to be where we have been nothing but happy! Okay, so
that it expired - Now they have found, which were destined for
each other: now let them draw, where innocence and peace they go
.-- What should count here?

Of Buecker, flatter, and cringe, and the Marin Ellis auszustechen looking
for? lucky to finally make, which he does not need?

an honor to finally be gewuerdiget which for him would not?

- Pirro! Pirro. Here I am. Odoardo. Go and bring my horse in front of
the house of the Count. I come to and want me again.

(Pirro is from.) - Why should serve the count here, even if he can
command? - They do not mind you, Claudia, that our daughter, he
is completely corrupted with the prince.

The prince hates me - Claudia. Maybe less than you besorgs. Odoardo.
Obtain! I can also so what!

Claudia.

Because I've already told you that the Prince has seen our daughter?
Odoardo. The Prince? And where? Claudia. In the last Vegghia in
which Grimaldi chancellor, which he graced with his presence.

He bezeigte against it so graciously - Odoardo. So gracious? Claudia. He
talked with her for so long - Odoardo.

Talked with her? Claudia. Schien of their playfulness and their jokes so
charmed - Odoardo. So charmed? - Claudia.

Does their beauty with so many surveys praise spoken - Odoardo.

Praise surveys? And everything you tell me in a tone of delight?
Claudia O! Vain, foolish mother! Claudia. Why? Odoardo. Well, well
now! So too is expired .-- Ha! when I imagine - would be just the
place where I am most deadly wound to bin! - A Wolluestling, the admired,
coveted .-- Claudia!

Claudia! the mere thought sets me in anger .-- You had me at once reported
to have .-- But, I want you now do not like to say something unpleasant.
And I would (by him by the hand take), if I would remain longer.
Just around the corner there is a
little cheap church with a little cheap pastor, where they can dish up
hell to you in an approved style--in a style more suitable to your
needs and condition; and the dish will not be as expensive to you,
either!"

If I had chanced to be that poor man in the seedy garments, and had
been endeavoring to serve my Maker for even half a century, I would
have felt like muttering audibly, "You go to hell!"  (I am not much
given to profanity, but when I am sorely aggravated and vexed in
spirit, I declare to you that it is such a relief to me, such a solace
to my troubled soul, and gives me such heavenly peace, to now and then
allow a word or phrase to escape my lips which can serve the no other
earthly purpose, seemingly, than to render emphatic my otherwise mildly
expressed ideas.  I make this confession parenthetically, and in a
whisper, my friends, trusting you will not allow it to go further.)

Now, I tell you, if you don't want to go to church, go to the woods and
take your wife and children and a lunch with you, and sit down upon the
old log and let the children gather flowers, and hear the leaves
whispering poems like memories of long ago! and when the sun is about
going down, kissing the summits of the distant hills, go home with your
hearts filled with throbs of joy and gladness, and the cheeks of your
little ones covered with the rose-blushes of health!  There is more
recreation and solid enjoyment in that than putting on your Sunday
clothes and going to a canal-boat with a steeple on top of it and
listening to a man tell you that your chances are about ninety-nine
thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine to one for being eternally damned!

Oh, strike with a hand of fire, weird musician, thy harp, strung with
Apollo's golden hair!  Fill the vast cathedral aisles with symphonies
sweet and dim, deft toucher of the organ's keys! Blow, bugler, blow,
until thy silver notes do touch and kiss the moonlit waves, and charm
the lovers wandering mid the vine-clad hills!--but know your sweetest
strains are but discord compared with childhood's happy laugh--the
laugh that fills the eyes with light and every heart with joy!  O,
rippling river of laughter; thou art the blessed boundary line between
beasts and men, and every wayward wave of thine doth drown some fretful
fiend of care.  O, Laughter, rose-lipped daughter of joy, there are
dimples enough in thy cheek to catch and hold and glorify all the tears
of grief!

Do not make slaves of your children on Sunday.  Don't place them in
long, straight rows, like fence-posts, and "Sh! children, it's Sunday!"
when by chance you hear a sound or rustle.  Let winsome Johnny have
light and air, and let him grow beautiful; let him laugh until his
little sides ache, if he feels like it; let him pinch the cat's tail
until the house is in an uproar with his yells--let him do anything
that will make him happy.  When I was a little boy, children went to
bed when they were not sleepy, and always got up when they were?  I
would like to see that changed--we may see it some day.  It is really
easier to wake a child with a kiss than a blow; with kind words than
with harshness and a curse.  Another thing:  let the children eat what
they want to. Let them commence at whichever end of the dinner they
please. They know what they want much better than you do.  Nature knows
perfectly well what she is about, and if you go a-fooling with her you
may get into trouble. The crime charged to me is this: I insist that
the bible is not the word of God; that we should not whip our children;
that we should treat our wives as loving equals; that God never upheld
polygamy and slavery; deny that God ever commanded his generals to
slaughter innocent babes and tear and rip open women with the sword of
war; that God ever turned Lot's wife into a pillar of salt (although
she might have deserved that fate); that God ever made a woman out of a
man's, or any other animal's rib!  And I emphatically deny that God
ever signed or sealed a commission appointing his satanic majesty
governor-general over an extensive territory popularly styled hell,
with absolute power to torture, burn, maim, boil, or roast at his
pleasure the victims of his master's displeasure!  I deny these things,
and for that I am assailed by the clergy throughout the United States.
Now, you have read the bible romance of the fall of Adam?  Yes, well,
you know that nearly or quite all the religions of this world account
for the existence of evil by such a story as that!  Adam, the miserable
coward, informed God that his wife was at the bottom of the whole
business!  "She did tempt me and I did eat!"  And then commenced a row,
and we have been engaged in it ever since!  You know what happened to
Adam and his wife for her transgressions?

In another account of what is said to have been the same
transaction--which is the most sensible account of the two--the Supreme
Brahma concluded, as he had a little leisure, that he would make a
world, and a man and woman.  He made the world, the man, and then the
woman, and then placed the pair on the Island of Ceylon.  (Bear in
mind, there were no ribs used in this affair.)  This island is said to
be the most beautiful that the mind of man can conceive of.  Such birds
you never saw, such songs you never heard! and then such flowers, such
verdure!  The branches of the trees were so arranged that when the
winds swept through, there floated out from every tree melodious
strains of music from a thousand!  Aeolian harps!  After Brahma put
them there, he said: "Let them have a period of courtship, for it is my
desire and will that true love should forever precede marriage."  And
with the nightingale singing, and the stars twinkling, and the little
brooklets murmuring, and the flowers blooming, and the gentle breezes
fanning their brows, they courted, and loved!  What a sweet courtship.
Then Brahma married the happy pair, and remarked:  "Remain here; you
can be happy on this island, and it is my will that you never leave
it."  Well, after a little while the man became uneasy, and said to the
wife of his youth, "I believe I'll look about a little."  He determined
to seek greener pastures.  He proceeded to the western extremity of the
island, and discovered a little narrow neck of land connecting the
island with the mainland, and the devil--they had a genuine devil in
those days, too, it seems, who is always "playing the devil" with
us--produced a mirage, and over on the mainland were such hills and
vales, such dells and dales, such lofty mountains crowned with
perpetual snow, such cataracts clad in bows of glory, that he rushed
breathlessly back to his wife, exclaiming:--"O, Heva! the country over
there is a thousand times better and lovelier than this; let us
migrate."  She, woman-like, said "Adami, we must let well enough alone;
we have all we want; let us stay here."  But he said:  "No, we will
go." She followed him, and when they came to this narrow neck of land,
he took her upon his back and carried her across.  But at the instant
he put her down there was a crash, and looking back they discovered
that this narrow neck of land had fallen into the sea. The mirage had
disappeared, and there was nothing but rocks and sand, and the Supreme
Brahma cursed them to the lowest hell. Then Adami spoke--and it showed
him to be every inch a man--"Curse me, but curse not her; it was not
her fault, it was mine." (Our Adam says, with a pusillanimous
whine,--Curse her, for it is her fault:  she tempted me and I did eat!"
The world, today, is teeming with just such cowards!)  Then said
Brahma, "I will save her, but not thee."  And then spoke his wife, out
of the fullness of the love of a heart in which there was enough to
make all her daughters rich in holy affection, "If thou wilt not spare
him, spare neither me; I do not wish to live without him. I love him."
Then magnanimously said the Supreme Brahma, "I will spare you both, and
watch over you and your children forever!"

Now, tell me truly, which is the grander story?  The book containing
this story is full of good things; and yet Christians style as heathens
those who have adopted this book as their guide, and spend thousands of
dollars annually in sending missionaries to convert them!

It has been too often conceded that because the new testament contains,
in many passages, a lofty and terse expression of love as the highest
duty of man, Christianity must have a tendency to ennoble his nature.
But Christianity is like sweetened whisky and water--it perverts and
destroys that which it should nourish and strengthen.

Christianity makes an often fatal attack on a man's morality--if he
happens to be blessed with any--by substituting for the sentiments of
love and duty to our neighbors, a sense of obligation of blind
obedience to an infinite, mysterious, revengeful, tyrannical God!  The
real principle of Christian morality, is servile obedience to a
dangerous Power!  Dispute the assertions of even your priest as to the
requirements, dislikes, desires and wishes of the Almighty, and you
might as well count yourself as lost, sulphurically lost!  If you are
one of God's chosen, or in other words, have been saved, and are even
so fortunate as to attain to the glories and joys of the gold-paved
streets of heaven, you are expected, in looking over the banisters of
heaven down into the abyss of eternal torture, to view with complacency
the agonized features of your mother, sister, brother, or infant
child--who are writhing in hell--and laugh at their calamity!  You are
not allowed to carry them a drop of water to cool their parched tongue!
And if you are a Christian, you at this moment believe you will enjoy
the situation!

If a man in a quarrel cuts down his neighbor in his sins, the poor,
miserable victim goes directly to hell!  The murderer may reasonably
count on a lease of a few weeks of life, interviews his pastor,
confesses the crime, repents, accepts the grace of God, is forgiven,
and then smoothly and gently slides from the rudely-constructed
scaffold into a haven of joy and bliss, there to sing the praises of
the Lamb of God forever and forever! Poor, unfortunate victim!  Happy
murderer!

Ah, what a beautiful religion humanitarianism and charity* might become!

[* The following incident, showing Col. Ingersoll's disposition to
practice what he preaches whenever the opportunity presents itself, we
have never before seen in print.  One day, during the winter of 1863-4,
when the colonel had a law office in Peoria. Ill.--and before the close
of the late war of the rebellion--a thinly clad, middle-aged, lady-like
woman came into his office and asked assistance, "My good woman, why do
you ask it?" "Sir, my husband is a private in the --th Illinois
infantry, and stationed somewhere in Virginia, but I do not know where
as I have not heard from him for nearly six months, although previous
to that time I seldom failed to get a letter from him as often as once
a week, and whenever he received his pay the most of his money came to
me. Fairly long, but yesterday he helped me personally abdicated -
Flottwell. How dubs it? Gardener (not significant). Mr Wolf - Flottwell.
From wolf? From the family I've never heard. Gardener. Yes ists with
the family not far away. He was of the valet Flott Wells. Flottwell
(quickly). My valet? (Holds it.) Not yet - Gardener (makes big
eyes). What do you a? (For that). The man must not be OK? (Indicates
to the brain.) Now wants the scoundrel even a valet have. (Laut.) For
Flottwell, says I, who died in America. Flottwell. Because your Lord
has probably a very large inheritance done? Gardener. Nothing he has
done! The Flottwell he ripped through the efficient.

As his wealth comes forth. He was so stupid and has presented to
him. Did gehätschelt him, and then we took him and says brav
ridiculed him still in the no good after death. To go to the young Lord,
the only vertun and nothing can earn. Because they depend on all the
flatterers, the other people are not their equal, and if they need
to be taken from everything she laughs. (Is it tobacco.) Will you take
a pinch? Flottwell. Thank you! (After some reflection.) I want to talk
about it anyway! Gardeners. Now if your in a good mood it will, maybe
he gives you something. (Accesses in the sack.) I want you to give a
glass of brandy. Flottwell (mockingly). You're too good. I am very
attached to you. Gardener. Oh, look again! When a poor devil, because
you have to take every penny. But you will probably know best how your
using your cash is. Flottwell. Thank you very much for your lessons.
I am amazed, however, that your so ungescheut everything from your Lord
says. Gardener. Previously, I would not say. Now, however, so I go
in a few days continued. Since I have nothing more on it! Flottwell.
Tell me just one more: Is Mr. Wolf in possession of this unjust Good
happy? (The door opens.) Gardener. Whether it is the most happy? Because
look at him and you convinced yourself Previous Third appearance.

Wolf. He is very aged, looks very ill, is dressed in fur and goes on a
floor. Three Serves with him. Flottwell (goes back). Heaven! I had not
recognized him. Wolf (his demeanor is very dark and sinnend). I've
had a bad night. The sun is coming to me tonight so bleak before.
Gardener. Gnädger Lord! It wants to be a poor man you are talking
about. Flottwell. You lie. I no longer bins.

(For themselves.) In such close my mind makes me rich. Wolf. It can not
be poorer than I am. Where is he? Flottwell (occurs). Flottwell he
calls it. Wolf (goes together). Flottwell? (Feel the page.) This has
given me a stitch. The bad gout is still ruthless than the humans.
(For themselves.) He is still alive. And it comes back? To punish the
sinner's heaven. Gardener. This is the rich Flottwell? Good night, I
will prefer to be gardeners. (Geht ab.) Wolf. Lord of Flottwell, I
feel very honored that you are your old servant still remember, and
regret only that my illness that I have been tormented for many
years, I am not allowed, my joy at your arrival so splendidly on
the day lay, when you could call me there. Flottwell. I have
nothing to ask, nothing more. What I have right to ask, is me by a
higher (looks against the sky) have become. I just wanted to see the
owner of my castle. Wolf (smiling). Yes, it is a very besondrer
coincidence. I have a true devotion to your house proved. The sky
has blessed me with a profit, but now I have suffered great losses.
Forgive, the doctor allowed me not to talk so much, I appreciate the
honor of your visit is greatly appreciated. (To the servant.) Led me
out at that prospect. But no! Back to the castle. Also do not
understand. After the garden. The garden is so beautiful. Only a pity
that even the roses wither away. (If, after thinking about.) How
often will I still see bloom? (Schauert.) Today is a cold day.
Flottwell. It seems to me the sun is warm. Wolf. I'm freezing.
Is it down into the village and calls the pious man, whom I now so
happy to have me. That he sent me a book of moral. I really like to hear
moral books. The world is not so bad, and it is his only consolation
in the future search. (Sneaks into the garden.) (The servants follow
him.) Flottwell (on the last of the servants). The gentleman is very
ill! Is he loved? Wishes him long life? Servant (shakes his head and
says gleichgiltig). He is a miserly felt that no one may suffer,
and in a few weeks will probably end with him to go. Adieu!
(Follow the others in the garden.) Flottwell (looks against the sky
and the hands together). Flott O Wells Castle, home to what you
have for people now! What should I start? The few valleys that I still
possessed, I have on my long walk to eat moon. I've saved and dry
bread, and yet I have not a penny more.

Here my old castle! (Looks after the ruin in the distance.) It is a
symbol of my jetzgen happiness zusammgestürzt. (He will remain
with folded arms are thinking.) Four previous appearance. Valentin,
in civil dress as master carpenter, a plane in a bag, comes
trillernd.

He has dark gray hair. Valentin. When a carpenter gets up early, Tralalala
- (Looks Flottwell.) Look, look, there is a poor man, I must give him
something. (He takes a penny out of the bag and wants him Flottwell
rich, but he stutzt when he sees him.) Hey old man! (Flottwell turn
against him.) What is - I do not know this Gsicht - the Gsicht is known
to me - now i trust him almost groschen not to give - Flottwell.

What do you want? Valentin (still irritated). The voting - which is
not? (He trembles.) You hear S'- that would be horrible Bitt for
forgiveness! You know that the castle? Flottwell (stirred). Whether
I know it, friend?

It was once my property! Valentin (screams soon). Gnädger My
Lord! (A mixture of joy, amazement and nostalgia makes him tremble,
he knows not to take. Retrieve again.) Gnädger My Lord! (The tears
are in his eyes, he kissed his hand silently.) Flottwell. Who
are you, friend? Valentin. The Valentin.

I know because Your grace never? Gsell The carpenter who once worked for
you and you have a servant, because he is so good you gfallen
has. Flottwell (good-natured). Valentine? the good honest Valentin. And
you still remember my? Valentin. Whether I can remember? O God! Your
graces were so good with me and gave me so much a gift. A ducat,
I have lifted me, (good-natured), but the others I have all spent.
Flottwell. And are you well? Valentin. Nu mine! Wies halt a poor carpenter
can go. The country is not much to do. I am satisfied. Flottwell. Then
you're happy! Valentin. Nu, you take hold of, as long as God wills. But
your grace did not seem to me to be satisfied. Flottwell. Not true, I
am very changed? Valentin (embarrassed). Ah no! no! Your grace look
good - good - quite good. A bissel strained, but - (Beiseite.) This
can be such a yes Lord does not say. Flottwell. My good Valentin, now
I can no longer Treat yourself. Valentin. Treat? Your graces are but
now I no longer wish to Treat. Because I must properly complete your
graces coarseness do. (Holds it.) Bitt for forgiveness! I sometimes red,
as if I am planing hätt shadows in your head. Since I am a carpenter
again, I lost my whole polish. Flottwell (for themselves). Should I
discover it? Valentin (for themselves). I trust him I do not have
to ask. It seems to me that he is full of hunger. Flottwell. Are you
going home? Valentin. No! I will be in the inn over the door
zusammnageln because s' out of one yesterday, and since he is a bissel
they arrived at the door, and there is s' gets a jump. And then
I have school champion a new line have to do. It has s' to her husband
behind because they lined him sometimes. Flottwell (struggling with
him, sighs, takes on the forehead and then says). Well so leb wohl!
(Will go.) Valentin (keep). Where want to because your graces? Your
grace I will not run away again? Now I've only had the honesty to
see. (Beiseite.) When I only knew how I should employ the thing?

Flottwell (sighs). What do you need? Valentin. Your grace to
forgive - But - Tell me Yours sincerely graces: His graces your already
invited? Flottwell (smiles). No, dear husband Valentin. Could I feel
so free and allowed me the Ehr ausbitten on an ancient cooking? Flottwell
(stirred). Thank you. Righteous man, let me come. Valentin. Nothing
coming. Ah beleib. I never run from your graces. The door to their own
zusammennageln. I have with my merciful Lord go home now. Flottwell.
So come! Valentin. But I say the same, so I can not go on, once pointed
at us (on Castle significant) is received - Ah - (Beat is on foot.)
Again a shadow plane discourse. Flottwell. I will be satisfied with
everything. Valentin. Nothing! No! Is not so bad, I cook yourself Ah
yes, we will have zusammnehmen, me and my old man. Will even where a
transferring Geflügelwerg find. As long as the Valentine which has
to be your Grace not perish. Now we keep our collection. Ah, so can not
run. Your grace must have an award.

I go ahead and come to your graces, and all my children have to
honor it, and how to enter your graces, must s' screaming that they
would like to shatter the breast: Vivat!

our fathers should be Gracious Lord live! Flottwell.

Good Valentin. Valentin. This is a life in the world! (Flottwell goes arm
in arm with him.) Fifth appearance transformation carpenter desk. A
plane bank. Carpenter tools hanging on the wall. Table and chairs. Links
a window. Law a side. Liese chases the Michael, a poodle hat aufhat
and books with a belt zusammengeschnürt, issued from the Cabinet.
Hiesel sawed in the plane bank. Liesenfeld. Wait, you Spitzbub when the
mother gets home! I'll learn you nibble. No sooner he comes home, you
already Gall. Michael (crying). The mother has allowed me.
Liese (the tears Hiesel the saw out of the hands). Let stand, I
say. If you are what ruin the fathers. Hiesel. I work already as good
as as the father. (Hämmert.) (Pepi wants from the Cabinet herausgehn,
but falls down and cries.) Liese. The highlights on boys! (It lifts him
up, he still has the children Röckchen, and presents it on the table.)
Now he's not yet dressed. (She prefers him to Kamisol.) Michael (she
plucks at the dress). The key give me that I can cancel my schoolbooks.
Liesenfeld. Let me go, I have the boys attraction. When the mother is
coming! It's been eleven clock. Hansel. Hiesel, come out, we rise up in
Taubenkobel. Liese. No, if the boys from the school to come home, not
for sustaining ists. (Hiesel hammers.) Do not hammer on? (A goose
eats and runs inside.) Michael (after the exit signs).

The meat goes on. Liesenfeld (requires little boys into the middle
room, the screams). On the small boys give careful! (Runs out.)
Hansel (calls). Hiesel, Aussa go! Previous sixth appearance. Valentin.
Flottwell. Valentin. Stroll your graces just come in! (Hansel from the
window goes away.) Graces your traps do not have the boys. Who has it
since the middle of the room hergesetzt? I ask for forgiveness, it is
all in disarray. A clean armchair! (Michael runs into the cabinet
and brings a wooden chair.) Goose chases after the addition! the plane
shadow away! (Hiesel does. Valentine to Michael.) Bring a cushion!
(Michael runs away and stumbles.) Now, it raises the Leimpfandel
around. Gfallt How Your graces as the industry? (Michael brings
an upholstered bed.) What do you do, would have brought even a Tuchet.
(chases him away with it. To Flottwell.) I would like to sit.
Lieserl, where art thou? Come here yet. All the children! (Liese, all
children up to Hans.) Where is the Hansel? Liesenfeld. He is already
out there. Valentin (looks through the window).

Since I have the honor of my family listed. One - two - three o'clock-four
o'clock, and the fifth is sitting on the Taubenkobel above. My wife
will come home right after. The will be a pleasure. Hansel! Come here
quick. Hansel (domestic calls). I can not get down so quickly! Valentin.
So falling down. Now go forth as children. As is in the circle around
you! (Hansel comes.) Then the Lord. This is my dear good Gracious
Lord, which I told you so much hab. The fathers have your hundred people
and a lot of good done. Go out and kissed him all the distributors.
(The kids are doing it. Meanwhile says) Hansel. Father, who looks
even not as a Gracious Lord. Valentin. Are breastfeeding. You're not
a connoisseur. What do you think of merciful than men. (Hansel doing
it too.) Pepi. Your grace, Pepi also hand kiss. Valentin. The youngest
child of my mood, your grace. Liese (embarrassed). Your Grace! Our
Lord's father gave us the way a lot of good, love and beauty of your
grace I said that we are quite happy to know Your grace. Flottwell.
God! (The fall of pain and shame overwhelmed in the chair and
cloaked with both hands, the face.) Liese (softly). Father, the
Lord regretted me. Even the poor must go! Valentin (well). Tute
nothing, we are already talking about it! (Liese geht ab.) Gehts
now, children who go a little further into the yard. (For Hiesel.)
You find yourself outside the fattest ducks in order.

(To Michael.) And you're looking for your mother. You should come home
immediately after. (Children from). My God, the children who
know nothing of the world. (Seufzt.) Yes yes! His graces your not
so upset. I did not even too much. But your grace I shall not perish.
But tell me your graces but once, as is so because the accident was?
Flottwell. I lived through eight years with my precious wife to me in
London had a son born, very happy. However, on a trip to South
America, from which they sought to hold me in vain, as if it had my
accident geahnet, snatched me death both. I went back to London, looking
for distraction. My expenses rose. I let myself in great speculation,
which I only fame, but could not bring profit, and after several years
I saw my assets up to a small residual melts. Now I was scared, I
decided to return to my homeland, with the fixed intent, I am
restricted in every respect. I came to Germany - was an unfortunate
idea Wiesbaden visit me. Here was the limit of my recklessness. After
twenty years, I played again in the hope to increase my assets,
I won, continuing to play and lost everything. Everything. Had to leave
behind my wardrobe, and with twenty dollars, the long journey to my
beloved homeland, where I am with irresistible force moved on foot,
and so I am now destitute beggars. Valentin. This is indeed a sad
story, but it is necessary to stop that s' experience. But forgive
me Your grace, your graces but a bissel be your own fault. It sends
itself does not mean that I say. But a gentleman who is so dagestanden
as your grace - It is to Totärgern - I can not help me, I hold the
red, as ichs think. Flottwell. You're right. Oh, now, all warnings of
my soul, I am from the pride and high spirits spurned, Cheristane and
the gruesome picture of mysterious beggar that made me such a long
time and has its origin, I will probably never unravel. Valentin. Now
his only calms your graces. As I've said. Everything in my power.
Have your graces only the Gnad and walk your graces allergnädigst
Meanwhile in the other room inside that we were a little bit together
can recognize. It looks quite as innobel from. Look to your grace
to a little inside.

Since your graces are something to see what your grace will certainly
enjoy. (He led him to the door.) Flottwell. Dienertreu O, you
equal to the moon, we see you only when our sun goes down. (Ab)
Valentin. This is a fine speech, but I did not understand it. Lisi,
children, go here! (Liese. Hiesel. Hansel.) Liese. What orders the
father? Valentin. Did you like your fathers? All three. Yes! Valentin.
Will you make it a joy? All three. Yes, dear father! Valentin. Annoyances
have you done to me enough. Be with the Lord because of it pretty good
and polite. He is with us in the house to stay. I never let him continue.
And talking to the mother, she is a good woman, but sometimes a little
gäh. Children. We know best, we have enough auszustehen with her.
Valentin. So?

Yes what is now the parents of the children to cause grief and worry,
that's extraordinary. So it goes with him. I come again, I just need the
door to make Tavern. And do not forget what I've said. He is unhappy.
With the unfortunate people you need to subtly bypass. The fortunate
can have a rather Puff endure. (Children's off to the Cabinet.) Valentin
(alone). No, if you experienced such things, because you totally
mistaken on luck. What uses everything! The man thinks, the sky draws.
Song Da argue that people often surrounded by the value of happiness,
The one called the other stupid, nobody knows at the end nix.
There is the poorest man in the other far too rich. The fate of the
sets Planers And to hobelt s' both the same. The youth will always
stop with Gwalt In all be happy, but you will only bissel old, Since you
find itself Dreiner. bickers Often my wife with me, oh Graus! This brings
me not in anger. Since knocking me from my plane and thought you buzz
me well. Displays the death once plucks And forgive me: Brüderle,
grief! Since I am in the beginning of deaf And look at me not to.

But he says: Dear Valentine! Mach no circumstances! Go! Since I put
my plane out And tell the world Adje. (Ab) Repetition A carpenter when
his was like, Did some happy hours, but happiness is not in the world
with wealth only in the covenant. Seh I zufriednen much sense to me since
fleeing everything Weh. Because I do not put the plane out not Tell
Adje of art! (Ab) Seventh Flottwell appearance with a picture in
his hand, his image in representing a young age. Liese. Hans.
Hiesel. Flottwell. What pleased me, my picture in your house. I
can not in better hands. How is it your father come? Liesenfeld.
The father has told us he bought hats in the castle. How it is
judicially lizitiert been. Flottwell (sighs). Yes so! Hansel.
And it did not cost much. There is no man which want to give this.
Flottwell (for themselves). Shameful! Liese (secretly). Are breastfeeding!
Do you not know what the father said? Hiesel (indicates the edge of the
image). As is the date, if your grace born. Liese (looks like).
The last Julius. (Freudig.) Since today is your birthday? Ah! this is
beautiful. Precisely fifty years. All three. Congratulations!
(Liese runs continued) Flottwell. As the sun sank, I was born. If
they will fall again? Where will I be? (Sinks into thought.) Hiesel
(to Hans). You know, I am your amusement, when my birthday is.
Hansel. Yes, he is already fifty born. Since gwöhnt mans halt. Liese
(Pepi ride in, is now referred to as Knäbchen cleanly dressed and carries
a large bouquet of flowers). As I bring another wishers. Hansel (looks
out the window). Just comes the mother! (Runs out.) Liese (warmly).
Want your graces many such flowers bloom on your way! That we wish
you all wholeheartedly. Flottwell (takes deep taken the bouquet says)
Thank you, dear children! (and submit it on the table.) Oh, why can I
have only words to thank! Previous Eighth appearance. Rosa, simply dressed
bourgeois, aged. She wears a covered basket. Hans and Michael with her.
Rosa (angry about Hans). What stay? Receive a foreign people?
When so much has children to feed! Is your father foolish? That
was' still ab! (Sees Flottwell.) There he is, yes. (For themselves.)
Nu, from the looks clean! Flottwell (who sat at tables and listened
Rosas speeches, stands on). Good day, dear woman, Rosa (nasty
greeting). Good day, Herr von Flottwell! Glad that your old servants
provided. So you can at least convince them that we are poor but honest
people. In our house has never been a jewelry exists, what you
see. We have also in your service does not generate as much as you can
as some people who are a lock of it was purchased. I think you will
understand me. Flottwell. I do not quite understand, dear woman. I do
not exactly remember all the events at my house. Only I know certainly
that none of my servant, with my desire to befall an injustice is.
Pink (fine). Ah what! Conditions determine the expressions of the
people. I can tell you nothing at all to say Lord of Flottwell as: Look
at us! Can you demand of us that we are limited in our situation is
even a man get, we have nothing to thank our right as a reward,
so you are free to stay with us. My husband is a good Lappe, who is
all talk. The nähmet the whole world into the house, but I'm a housewife,
I have to decide, I know our relationships, our spending and our
revenue. I have for my children when they have nothing to eat, and I
can not give my consent. We will be happy if us today at noon to
honor. We will not let scoff. But forever? Forgive S '! I can not
admit! Today in my house and never! Flottwell (disgusted with astonishment).
No! I have not heard! It was a dream! So she spoke to Julius von
Flottwell their einstgen Lord. At that Flottwell in the one hundred
goldumstarrten Saale flatterer at the table saw!

Gepriesnen to the father of his servant! For the noblest of friends!
At best, most beautiful, witty and goldbeglücktesten of people,
and how the lies are all the candy to their full glass hinschrieb.

So she spoke to me that these flowers have to ignite it heilger
gratitude could have him as an angel in the lap of paradise picked?

O woman!

Can I the tenth part of my happiness zurückbeschwören and verlornen
tenfold misery to your old main hinschmettern that will take you
to my feet should lead, then should my generosity you teach, how
you were wrong, that you in my misfortune I've hurt so bitter.

Guard playfully says
that he is a puppy nine days old; that he was only eight days old when
I came here.  I'm inclined to think he has over stated his age.  I
account for his argument precisely as he did for the sin of Solomon,
softening of the brain, or fatty degeneration of the heart.  It does
seem to me that if I were a good Christian and knew that another man
was going down to the bottomless pit to be miserable and in agony
forever, I would try to stop him, and instead of filling my mouth with
epithet and invective, and drawing the lips of malice back from the
teeth of hatred, my eyes would be filled with tears, and I would do
what I could to reclaim him and take him up in the arms of my affection.

The next gentleman is the Rev. Mr. Robinson, who delivered a sermon
entitled 'Ghost against God, or Ingersoll against Honesty.'  Of course
he was honest.  He apologized for attending an infidel lecture upon the
ground that he hated to contribute to the support of a materialistic
showman.  I am willing to trade fagots for epithets, and the rack for
anything that may be said in his sermon.  I am willing to trade the
instrument of torture with which they could pull the nails from my
fingers for anything which the ingenuity of orthodoxy can invent.
When I saw that report--although I do not know that I ought to tell
it--I felt bad.  I knew that man's conscience must be rankling like a
snake in his bosom, that he had contributed a dollar to the support of
a man as bad as I.  I wrote him a letter, in which I said:  "The Rev.
Samuel Robinson, My Dear Sir.  In order to relieve your conscience of
the stigma of having contributed to the support of an unbeliever in
Ghosts, I herewith enclose the dollar you paid to attend my lecture."
I then gave him a little good advice to be charitable, and regretted
exceedingly that any man could listen to me for an hour and a half and
not go away satisfied that other men had the same right to think that
he had.

The speaker went on to answer the argument of Mr. Robinson with regard
to persecution, contending that protestants had been guilty of it no
less than catholics; and showing that the first people to pass an act
of toleration in the new world were the catholics in Maryland.  The
reverend gentleman has stated also that infidelity has done nothing for
the world in the development of art and science.  Has he ever heard of
Darwin, of Tyndall, of Huxley, of John W. Draper, of Auguste Comte, of
Descartes, Laplace, Spinoza, or any man who has taken a step in advance
of his time?  Orthodoxy never advances, when it does advance, it ceases
to be orthodoxy.

A reply to certain strictures in the Occident led the lecturer up to
another ministerial critic, namely, the Rev. W.E. Ijams.

I want to say that, so far as I can see, in his argument this gentleman
has treated me in a kind and considerate spirit.  He makes two or three
mistakes, but I suppose they are the fault of the report from which he
quoted.  I am made to say in his sermon that there is no sacred place
in the universe.  What I did say was:  There is no sacred place in all
the universe of thought; there is nothing too holy to be investigated,
nothing too sacred to be understood, and I said that the fields of
thought were fenceless, that they should be without a wall.  I say so
tonight. He further said that I said that a man had not only the right
to do right, but to do wrong.  What I did say, was:  "Liberty is the
right to do right, and the right to think right, and the right to think
wrong," not the right to do wrong.  That is all I have to say in regard
to that gentleman, except that, so far as I could see, he was perfectly
fair, and treated me as though I was a human being as well as he.

The speaker sarcastically referred to the slurs thrown upon him by his
reviewers, who have claimed that his theories have no foundation, his
arguments no reason, and that his utterances are vapid, blasphemous,
and unworthy a reply.  He said that their statements and their actions
were sadly at variance, for, while declaring him a senseless idiot,
they spent hours in striving to prove themselves not idiots; in other
words, in one breath they declare that his views were absolutely
without point, and needed no explaining away; while in direct rebuttal
of this declaration, they devoted time and labor in attempts to
disprove the very things they called self-evident absurdities.

Turning from this subject, Mr. Ingersoll read numerous extracts from
the bible, with interpolated comments.  He claimed that the bible
authorized slavery, and that many devoted believers in that book had
turned the cross of Christ into a whipping post.  He did not wish it
understood that he could find no good in believers in creeds; far from
it, for some of his dearest friends were most orthodox in their
religious ideas, and there had been hundreds of thousands of good men
among both clergy and laymen.  History has shown no people more nobly
self-sacrificing than the Jesuit Fathers who first visited this country
to proselyte among the Indians.  But these men and their like were
better than their creeds; better than the book in which their faith was
centered. The bible tells us distinctly that the world was made in six
days--not periods, but actual, bona fide days--a statement which it
iterates and reiterates.  It also tells us that God lengthened the day
for the benefit of a gentleman named Joshua, in other words, that he
stopped the rotary motion of the earth.  Motion is changed into heat by
stoppage, and the world turns with such velocity that its sudden
stoppage would create a heat of intensity beyond the wildest flight of
our imagination, and yet this impossible feat was performed that Joshua
might have longer time to expend in slaying a handful of Amorites.  The
bible also upholds the doctrines of witchcraft and spiritualism, for
Saul visited the witch of Endor, and she, after preparing the cabinet,
trotted out the spirit of Samuel, said spirit kindly joining in
conversation with Saul, without requiring the aid of a trance medium.
The speaker then quoted at length from Leviticus concerning wizards and
evil spirits, described the temptation of Christ by Satan, and the
driving of devils from man into swine. He sneered at the rights of
children as biblically described, citing the law which sentenced them
to be stoned to death for disobedience to parents, the almost sacrifice
of Isaac by his father, and the actual murder of Jephthah's daughter,
asking if a God who could demand such worship was worthy the love of
man.  He next referred to the conversation between God and Satan
concerning the man Job, and of the reward given to the latter for his
long continued patience.  His three daughters and his seven sons had
been taken from him merely to test his patience, and the merciful God
gave him in exchange three other daughters and seven sons, but they
were not the children whom he had loved and lost. The bible represents
woman as vastly inferior to man, while he believed, with Robbie Burns,
that God made man with a prentice-hand, and woman after He had learned
the trade.  Polygamy, also, was a doctrine supported by this pure and
pious work; a doctrine so foul that language is not strong enough to
express its infamy. The bible taught, as a religious creed, that if
your wife, your sister, your brother, your dearest friend, tempted you
to change from the religion of your fathers, your duty to God demanded
that you should at once strike a blow at the life of your tempter. Let
us suppose, then, that in truth God went to Palestine and selected the
scanty tribes of Israel as his chosen people, and supposing that he
afterward came to Jerusalem in the shape of a man and taught a
different doctrine from the one prescribed by their book and their
clergy, and that the chosen people, in obedience to the education he
had prepared for them, struck at the life of him who tempted them.
Were they to be cursed by God and man because the former had reaped the
harvest of his own sowing?


Ingersoll's Lecture on "How the Gods Grow"


Ladies and Gentlemen:  Priests have invented a crime called blasphemy.
That crime is the breastwork behind which ignorance, superstition and
hypocrisy have crouched for thousands of years, and shot their poisoned
arrows at the pioneers of human thought.  Priests tell us that there is
a God somewhere in heaven who objects to a human being, thinking and
expressing his thought.  The importance of world religions for the social
structure of nations and for their economic ethos in these studies is
extremely großartig emerged. If you have added the popular "social
teachings of the Christian Churches of E. Troeltsch and the
investigations of P. honey home About the influence of Jansenismus
on the French social and economic history" is in these works a
significant, coherent picture emerged from the sociological significance
religion at all (see also the author's "Treatises and Essays"). In
another direction, Werner Sombart in his book Capitalism and its
"bourgeois", but especially in the new edition of his "Fundamentals
of modern capitalism" is now a systematic A nordnung all causes for
the emergence of the phases of modern capitalism, which the earlier
objections against his statements largely stands.

Its expected to book about the intellectual conditions of modern
socialism, which he's known "Socialism and Social Movement" in terms
umzuarbeiten is about the emergence of Marxist theories, especially
the new light spread. The new, in the writings of the Kantgesellschaften
studies released by E. Troeltsch on the previous forms of sociology
since Comte and the dialectical method of Hegel also have about the
origins of the dichotomy of our German history from the view of
the Western nations view us this important insights developed.
Is it meant that the whole Marxist sociology (see the recent work of
J. Plenge, Lederer, Cunow, Lensch, Schumpeter, Renner, R. Michels,
Max Adler and others) in the crisis is profound, in which they find
since the battle of Lassalle and Marx found it, this is the slow onset
of historical-philosophical and sociological discussion of the socialist
and bourgeois sociology and history views can not hit low. What we
present is especially needed, that would be a new, on the whole of this
literature developed empirical insights based heoriederhistorischen
T K ausalfaktoren, particularly the O rdnung their effectiveness
accurately determined and notes, and also with all previous
one-sidedness, mostly spiritual, and naturalistic conceptions of
history, finally breaks down.

The author is busy, in a forthcoming book on the social history and
doctrine of the "solidarity" such a theory to be developed. - If you
immensely, only with the era of Kant and Hegel comparable mental
egsamkeit R on the bottom of the current philosophy in Germany (from
which these lines of a weak, through the room have offered engbegrenztes
picture) compares with what is currently in the countries of the
winner on this ground is done, it is - as all those from abroad to
the authors come to Cologne, testify - the distance ungeheuergro ß e r.
This impression is, if you can still add, despite the misery of the
new library system and the low costs incurred by the state for
science and its institutions alone are possible today, even on the
ground of science and inventions is done, so strong that in him alone
the tiefgesunkene self-esteem and self-esteem of the nation itself
wiederaufzurichtenver ma g. A people in the greatest misery of its
political and economic situation to such a wealth of intellectual
effort and is capable of, may not perish. In some sense a tragic history
of the German constitutions in accordance with (which you may complain
or praise) is also this nation, especially from their deepest sorrows
and troubles out with new and fresh energy to it from the dark depths
of their destiny by not fragile soul flow, again with a new boldness
to the eternal stars of their actual "determination" grab. The philosophy
is not to be underestimated, role, and the unilateral Verfachlichung
specialization in which the German people before the war was so much
absorbed that he also be a healthy and uniform policy and the leadership
of the war need to spontaneous agreement and agreement readiness
capability largely use to gradually dissolve and thereby contribute
to a new, more uniform shape spiritual education to the German people
aufzuprägen. RELATIVITÄTSTHEORIE OF A. SOMMERFELD LECTURE, HELD IN A
SINGLE CYCLE GEMEINVERSTÄNDLICHER LECTURES, HELD BY THE UNIVERSITY
OF MUNICH, summer of 1921 Konrad Ferdinand Meyer makes in "Hutten"
the old pastor of Ufenau say: Learn that among us, we tried the
natural order, a secret glow With is's a fahr'nder students entrusted.
Tilts you to me! It says it does not like loud. Chorherrenstift One
lives in Torun, which has maintaining it until the mystery hinted at
night. Mr Nick proves twill with bünd'gem conclusion that - staunet
- must walk our earth! Same wonderment that brought together 400 years
the human race when a customer of the Copernican revolution in the
covered, is alive today, where it is a new revolution in the world is
comparable to the Copernican, perhaps with their epistemological roots
even deeper-reaching. The same mysterious dark as it was - "it says it
does not like loud" - umweht the new theory of space, time and gravity.
If I succeed, the darkness into something bright?

I know only too well that without the safe guidance of the mathematical
idea ultimately is impossible. For many of my assertions, I will owe
the evidence must remain as it is only in the full knowledge of the
physical facts and the good part, only with the tools of
mathematical bill would provide. I must be satisfied if I give you
an idea of the problems and the thoughts that lead to their solution,
can give. Slightly more precisely, I would then focus on how it
erfahrungsmäßigen with the examination of the new doctrine is. In
particular, I will by the solar eclipse of 1919 have to speak. While
professionals in the interest in the theory of relativity has been
alive for 15 years, dated the general attention and the popularity
of the theory only by their confirmation by the solar eclipse. "You
said, as calmly sit here? Allowed We soar like eagles by force robbed"
- so goes the pastor of Ufenau to continue talking. "We sit here quietly."
And yet we rotate, so Copernicus taught us to the earth axis at a
speed of several hundred meters per second, while the earth moves
and we with it around the sun at a speed of 30 km in the second,
so a hundred times faster than the sound the air durcheilt.

And the sun itself is moving against the fixed stars and leads the Earth
and ourselves ", as with eagle force" continues. From this whole
composite motion process, we feel nothing, unless we have accurate
tools are equipped to get the stars to make observations. We must
conclude: motion in itself is not observable, it is in itself nothing.
Only relative motion, we can conclude. And further: The space in itself
is nothing, the progress in space is not concerned with real fact.
There is no absolute space. The space only exists through him
contained in the body and energy.

A progression in the room is just to measure the volume and can only
ever think raumerfüllenden relative to the bodies and energy. This is
the relativity principle of classical mechanics. It is 200 years
since the basis for the study of heavenly and earthly movement.
The exact expression of this ancient principle of relativity is: It
is impossible to determine whether a system of bodies as a whole, at
rest or in uniform straight motion, if we only body within this
system and do not reflect experience outside the same characteristics
can be observed. We can therefore none of the progressive movement of
the earth say, if we do not view after the fixed star sky.

The rotating motion of the earth, however, it is first otherwise it does
not fall under the principle of relativity of classical mechanics,
since in it the direction of the velocity changes continued. In fact,
we can swing by observations on the Earth or to measure the
oblateness of the Earth show. We will come back to this when we
consider the general, on the classical principle of relativity beyond
mechanics have to be developed. Let us by the mechanics to look over.
The phenomena of light are based, as we now know, on the propagation
of electromagnetic fields. The optics and electrodynamics believed an
L icht ä thermal necessary to have a fine materialized space where the
lighting effects should be spread. Hereafter, it is conceivable absolute
movement in space as a movement against the light beams through the
ether demonstrated. A beam that is in the meaning of the Earth,
bringing this about, moves should be relative to the soil slowly
propagate as a beam, perpendicular to the Earth progresses. The relativity
principle would thus be broken and the absolute motion of the earth in
space detectable. The attempt is extraordinary sharpness of M ichelson
been employed and provided no indication of the Earth.

It would serve no purpose if I have the Michelson's experiment closer
to portray. The conviction of its binding force you but I could not
teach me in experimental without losing details. The test is so difficult
and requires special tools so that it has only been carried out twice.
Here, as in many other respects, I must on your good faith in the
reliability of the physical and astronomical measurements can expect.
The Michelsonsche trial and other less precise experience thus show
that the relativity principle is right, that absolute motion can not
visually as a movement against the light ether can be demonstrated. It
follows, as Einstein pointed out that the light ether no real,
observable existence. He is not physically, but metaphysically, a
covert absolute space and as such is misleading.

But still further: The light propagation takes place in space and time.
It has, by the progressive in the solar system from Earth measured
the same speed as the sun would be seen from the Earth but not in
part. We call B ezugssystem generally a physical laboratory, which
is related to scales and clocks to space and timing equipment. This
lecture hall is a reference system, because I in him, the relative
positions of a moving body by its distances from three of its levels
and by limiting the information may be determined by a clock. Three
such distances is called the R aumkordinaten the reference point, the
corresponding time you can call his Zeitkoordinate. We are dealing here
with a terrestrial reference system. But we can also be a suitable
reference system to the sun or on an earth moving against the rail
course think. The general facts of reproduction light show now that
the light in any reference system in the same way spreads, namely
spherical waves with the same speed of light, regardless of the motion
states of the light source to the observer. That seems to be
contradictory. For if we have a spherical wave in the earth reference
system spreading from the sun from view, it would be on the front
(the side was that, after the current speed of the Erdkörpers is
directed) to the speed of light nor the Erdgeschwindigkeit added,
on the back of the wave would be Erdgeschwindigkeit by the speed
of light pull.

The front of the wave would look like from the sun seen faster progress
than the reverse. This contradicts the principle of relativity and the
visual experience. The light wave does not know whether they related to
the system of the earth or the sun is. Each observer it appears as a
light wave of the same propagation speed. The contradiction resolves
itself by the fact that we are also the time of their absolute
nature undress. Each reference system has its own time scale. There are
no absolute universal time. The mechanics denied the absolute space,
but had the absolute time there, she could do it without getting in
trouble because they do not have such exorbitant rates as the speed of
light available. The optics and electrodynamics require the relativization
of the time. Even the Time in itself is nothing. It is the only means
of playing in their events. These events, such as a light wave, are
real and objective, the assessment of the timing but depends on
the position of the observer, from the reference system.

It follows further: There is no absolute simultaneity. Two events
in my reference system at the same time, are excluded from positions
of relatively against me moving reference system of non-simultaneously.
If I allow myself once (in Figure 1), time and space through two
directions in the drawing layer represent [=== Figure 1 - see figure1.png
===] so are the two events A and B simultaneously in the reference
system (space - time), but A is earlier than B in the reference system
(space - time), which by the dotted axes is shown. This pictorial
representation, which here only as a parable may be understood, even
the real facts in numbers again, when we look at the timeline with
a ratio of the speed of light magnified scale to measure, but then in
the figure by the line ab shown only as a discrepancy tiny time
difference appears. Another example: From the Earth dissolves into a
moment like her image and go away from it with a certain speed. Two
twins, A and B, are born in this moment, A remains on the earth, B is
exposed to its image. They are identical on the two stars in the same
living conditions in exactly the same way, but in varying tempo. If
somehow a customer receives from B, he finds that B is slower
alive, that his age and in his life destinies always something behind
a behind. The same notes B of A, A is younger than B from the
positions of the B, B is younger than A from the positions of A. It
was recently suggested that the word theory of relativity should be
replaced by teaching position. The word is good; verdeutscht and
it illustrates the main content of the new view. If we change the
position by him from the earth on its image to one or embarrassed
about the earth moving train, we see what our world from the point of
view depends, in other words, subjective ingredient is and what is
independent of positions, ie lies in the things. Space and time are
dependent or relative positions, but the view of two events at the
same time as it is. But the events themselves are really like the
fact of a spreading wave of light or as a human life. It is allowed
at any position and on an equal footing with each other. There is no
preferred position or ether or sun Erdstandpunkt position: that the
appearances of any positions seen each other in harmony, despite some
paradoxes, and never in real contradictions that can show the mathematical
performance of the whole doctrine. You wanted the sense of relativity
is not so indicate that everything happening from the viewpoints of
the observer depended, as if everything would be subjective. Especially
the change of position is only the law of nature in its unchanging
core emerge. The relativity theory has not only a negative, clear
away, it has mainly a positive, constructive side. A positive
role of the teaching position, we want to express statuieren: The
regularity in nature as a "rock of ore" to assemble, the hinüberragt
about the changing manifestations of space and time, from all points
of view to be for those whose eye with the view of the mathematical
body is equipped.

The cleaning everything metaphysical, unobservable Absolute was
a great merit of the new theory. But the erection of all views and
reference systems of valid ends and Stay Independent was their greater
merit. Mathematically the theory that achieved by the stability (invariance)
of the natural occurrences descriptive equations to arbitrary
transformations of the auxiliary variables (coordinates of space and
time, field strengths, energies) proves, by the nature of which we
describe what happened. That is precisely the difference between Mach
and Einstein, the foreman and the completion of the idea of relativity.
For Mach, the view on the negatives addressed.

He wanted to remove the scrub with the view of the fact blocked, the
prejudice of an absolute space and absolute time. But he vanished
on this useful Rodearbeit at the hands of the belief in the strength of
the laws of nature. He once said: "The absolute accuracy, the fully
accurate unambiguous determination of the consequences of a condition
does not exist in the sensual reality, but only in theory." The laws
of nature are his economic policies, to Ordnungsschematen in which
the variety of phenomena can be easily accommodated. But that is not
what we need.

Laws of nature so uncertain and formalistic nature would hardly be the
toil and excitement of research value. The tentative nature explorers,
the dark due to a suspected target aims, needs a guiding star
brighter than the Machsche teaching. Positivism is this doctrine of his
successors, but their earnings substantially in the negation of the
unobservable is. Einstein thinks differently. The negation of the
metaphysical is it just the way to the door to get to the highest
affirmation of the laws of nature, invariant to its validity, regardless
of any positions. It is characteristic that the positivist half Einstein,
the degrading, enthusiastic praise, the other Einstein, the building,
but do not want to acknowledge. I recently had an extensive correspondence
with a representative of the full spirit of positivism, an exchange
of letters, of course, no agreement resulted. Finally, I wrote a
colleague: "If you send us is not the exactness of the laws of nature
can be, there can be between us no true peace, but a respectful give
full mutual toleration." We are delighted with our recent
observations have hinübergeglitten by the thought of the original
district, special theory of relativity to the general, presumably
definitive theory, those dating from 1905, those of 1915. That was
not uniform and rectilinear motion reference systems as entitled to
this position recognizes each principle and uses all sorts of reference
systems to describe physical phenomena, ie arbitrarily rotated and
accelerated reference systems, variable standards and any current
watches. They claimed that the laws of nature to maintain its shape
even at such a general description, if we are only beginning to the
right, sufficiently generalized mathematical expression of the laws
of nature choose. An important step towards this general relativity
effect of the idea was inkow M skis four summary of space and time. The
time has an extension, the space is three, together they have four
dimensions, namely: the fixation of a space time to describe a event
in space and time are required four independent figures, three of
which are spatial, a temporal location specified. Minkowski talks about
the four W orld as the summary of time and space. There are four in
this world, the laws of the ordinary three-dimensional geometry transfer,
drawing partly in, partly, and particularly successful in accounting
generalization. I can not ask you that you have a four-imagine the
world will be. Because I can not even. But we can easily imagine
two-dimensional world. Take a look at that you as a thinking being
with all your senses and experience into a level would be banned. Then
there would be for you not the top and bottom, but a juxtaposition.
In this flat world can be as light excitations circles, like the
waves on a water surface, propagate.

You can experience the level and build a geometry, the e uklidische
G eometrie the plains, as we learned in school have. But you can
never produce the idea, for example, get a cube. You can count on
a straight line your level a lot within the building level, but you
can not watch a lot according to the present level, because it is
nothing for you outside your level. But if you as a mathematical
surface being sufficient imagination, you can but your definition of
two to three dimensions of progress. You only need two coordinates
instead of your level in the three coordinates as accounting sizes
and can introduce the Lot at the level of equations in these three
coordinates to describe, one of which, however, you really only two
imagined. In the same ratio as that area being three-dimensional
Euclidean space to geometry, we are four to world geometry. If we do
not even us can imagine, we can but in her mind, and arithmetic.

In particular, we can level and spatial world, excerpts from this construct,
which can then be accessible to our intuition.

In our three-dimensional space is the appearance of the familiar
perspective shortening. This table seems to me from the side view
narrower, as seen from above. (The positivist, the sensations even
the last and only are, would say: it is seen from the side narrower
than seen from above.) Under the same perspective view of the reduction,
if we are to the four world can all the strange conclusions, which
the theory of relativity has withdrawn. An observer of the moving
body appears in the direction of motion shortens (Lorentz contraction
as the simplest explanation of the Michelson experiment). The time
in moving against the observer reference system seems to slow this
observer (repeal of simultaneity, regeneration of one of our two twins
from the viewpoints of others). The mass of a body, eg an electron,
which is against the observer moves, this will increase, namely more
than one observer, based on the moving body itself up observation
equipment and the mass of the body resting on it attaches.
If God made us all, why did He not make
us all equally well.  He had the power of an infinite god.  Why did God
people the earth with so many idiots?  I admit that orthodoxy could not
exist without them, but why did God make them?  If we believe the bible
then He should have made us all idiots, for the orthodox Christian says
the idiots will not be damned, simply transplanted, while the sensible
man, who believeth not, will be sent to eternal damnation?  If there is
any God that made us, what right had He to make idiots?  Is a man with
a head like a pin under any obligation to thank God?  Is the black man,
born in slavery, under any obligation to thank God for his badge of
servitude?

What kind of a God is it that will allow men and women to be put in
dungeons and chains simply because they loved Him and prayed to Him?
And what kind of a God is it that will allow such men and women to be
burned at the stake?  If God won't love such men and women, then under
what circumstances will he love?

Famine stalks over the land and millions die, not only the bad but the
good, and there in the heavens above sits an infinite God who can do
anything, can change the rocks and the stones, and yet these millions
die.  I do not say there is no God, but I do ask, what is God doing?
Look at the agony, and wretchedness and woe all over the land.  Is
there goodness, is there mercy in this?  I do not say there is not, but
I want to know, and I want to know if a man is to be damned for asking
the question?

(He eloquently recited the agonies that clustered around the French
Bastille, where great men and heroic women suffered and died for loving
liberty, and said:  If there is a God, I think that one word, Bastille,
would bring the blush of shame to His face.)

I find that the men who have received revelation are the worst; and
that where the bible goes there go the sword and the fagot. If an
infinite God makes a revelation to me He knows how I will understand
it.  If God wrote the bible he knew that no two people would understand
it alike.

When I read the bible I found that God in His infinite wisdom couldn't
control the people He had created and that He had to drown them.  If I
had infinite power and couldn't make a people that I could control and
had to drown them, why I'd resign.

Then I read in the bible such cruel things, and I do not believe that
God can be cruel.  Such cruelty may make one afraid, but cannot inspire
love.  I can't love a god that will inflict pain and sorrow, and I
won't.

The preachers say all unbelievers will go to hell--tidings of great
joy. When I confront them they--say I'm taking away their consolation.
The old bible does not mention hell or heaven.  Now God should have
notified Adam and Cain of hell, but He didn't. When He came to drown
all those people He didn't tell a single one that He would drown him.
He talked all about water--nothing about fire.  When He came down on
Mount Sinai, and told Moses how to cut out clothes for a priest, He
never said one word on the subject.  When God gave Moses the ten
commandments, engraved on stone, there He said not one word about hell.
There was plenty of room on the stone; why did He not add:  "If you
don't keep these commandments you will be damned."  Through all these
ages, when God was talking all the time, and when every howling prophet
had His ear, not one word did He utter of hell or heaven.  For 4,000
years God got along without mentioning those places or even hinting of
them.  It seems to me that we ought to have been notified by Him.

(Here the orator recalled many stories from the old bible and subjected
them to keen irony and ridicule.  Reciting the story wherein the she
bears came out of the woods and tore to pieces the forty children who
mocked the prophet, he asked:  If God did that, what would the devil
have done under the same circumstances?  Why; he said, did not God give
a sure cure for leprosy, unless He wanted to have His chosen people to
have that frightful disease?)

Do you believe that God ever told a widow if her brother-in-law refused
to marry her to spit in his face?  Do you believe any such nonsense
from a god?  I call that courting under difficulties.  (Then Colonel
Ingersoll dwelt pathetically on the sweet, innocent babes eaten up by
the lions in the den, after Daniel was rescued from their jaws, and
asked the question, what kind of a god was it that allowed such
horrible deeds?)

They say that I pick out all the bad things in the bible.  Well, God
ought not to have put bad things in the book.  If you only read the
bible you will not believe it.  Why, it is such a bad book that it has
to be supported by legislation.  In Maine and elsewhere they will send
you to jail for two years if you deny the bible or the judgment day.

No, we are told we must not only believe in the God we have been
talking about, but must also believe in another one.

Let us look at the church today.  The orthodox church--that is, all but
the Universalist.  He is trying to be orthodox, but he can't get in.
The God of the Universalists, to say the least, is a gentleman.

Now, what is this religion?  To believe certain things that we may be
saved, that we won't be damned.  What are they? First, that the old and
new testament are inspired.  No matter how kind, how just a man may be,
unless he believes in the inspiration, he will be damned.

Second, he must believe in the trinity.  That there are three in one.
That father and son are precisely of the same age, the son, possibly, a
little mite older; that three times one is one, and that once one is
three.  It is a mercy you don't know how to understand it, but you must
believe it or be damned.  Therein you see the mercy of the Lord.  This
trinity doctrine was announced several hundred years after Christ was
born:  Do you believe such a doctrine will make a man good or honest?
Will it make him more just?  Is the man that believes any better than
the man who does not believe?  How is it with nations?  Look at Spain,
the last slave-holder in the civilized world; she's christian, she
believes in the trinity!  And Italy, the beggar of the world. Under the
rule of priestcraft money streamed in from every land and yet she did
not advance.  Today she is reduced to a hand-organ.  Take poor Ireland,
groaning under the heel of British oppression; could she cast off her
priests she would soon be one with America in freedom.

On this ground had diaper tape recorded significant achievements, which
admittedly broad and open to criticism for their part also really into
disrepair. In his Platonbuche for example he gives, in my opinion
the ideal of a good interpretation of Plato, who fichteisch and
Kant and the opposite of straight is platonic.

Almost everywhere, where he spoke about medieval philosophy, he forfeited
as Baeumker and his students showed profound mistakes. Systematic Diaper
band is first emerged with his doctoral dissertation "On the coincidence",
also with his speech rectorate About nomothetic and ideographic
sciences ", the starting point for Rickert history theory in his
book on" limits of scientific concept formation "formed has also
in his two volumes of "Preludes" in his "Introduction to Philosophy,"
in the category teaching work and in his book "On Freedom of the
Will."

In his pamphlet on the chance there is still the French philosopher
and mathematician Cournot cited, I think first raised the allegation,
that it is objective, but in lawful relations are inextricably real,
although the causality, if it is concrete causality call, not But
the law principle that, furthermore, that it is the story with this
objective being random, the differences of all his legal affairs
and to do.

The same idea is found incidentally, before that speech Diaper bands
even at Harms and also in Hermann Paul's "principles of linguistic
history." Strictly systematically tried to justify it, but only H. Rickert
in the above works.

Rickert was taken from by a particular theory of concept formation,
which he in critical confrontation with the logician Sigwart won. This
definition is strictly Nominalist theory and has to that of the
positivist, for FA Have a great similarity.

The concept should be an "overcoming the extensive and intensive
infinitely rich diversity", which even the most simple part of the
immediately experienced reality contained. The educated in this manner
and terms no less educated Put the analogous relations in the last
line, the terms should dissolve, the "validity" to, but not a
reality or reality.

In addition to this one and the same Betrachtungsart under the category
of "fact" was originally taken free form "the substance of the direct
experience" but it is still a principle opposite to the direction of
viewing and thinking type. It seeks not the multiplicity of general
concepts to overcome, but this diversity through the formation of
individual concepts is always more accurate than "individual" and as
a whole and part to determine. General individual and therefore should
be the result of two opposite-facing formations and views of the
same matter of experience, certainly the case that the categorical
form of the individual (Rickert leads them as a new category in the
category system Kantstrasse a) 'consensus titutive "Meaning for dc
own reality, while the category of laws only "regulatory" seems
essential.

The last root of the difference of science and history is now exclusively
in these two approaches be located. We should probably note that the
approaches do not coordinate are ert. Since the individual category
of the constitutive (and with it the specific category of causality),
the world is really prim ä r not "natural" but "history".

And what we call "nature" call in the last line is only a general
abstract excerpt from this unique concrete reality that is not necessary
if our minds were so full, everything individually Real wealth in the
whole of its diversity to be able to collect. This gives the history
science with a metaphysical rather than science.

This philosophically quite unfounded allegation is only an apparent
arbitrary logical justification of these statements from all primary
school resulting low ranking of science and natural philosophy in
particular, all e.

This notion is supported by the Natural Sciences Rickert also very
critical of him mechanically sensualistisch understood filed Psychology
. A second characteristic of the historical subject matter apart from
the individualizing view of reality according to Rickert, the
relationship of this reality to a system of universal values. Only this
relationship should consist of the immense wealth of the individual
to select the one reality, which - be it positive or negative value
in direction - "culturally significant" is.

The generic values are determined by the philosophy, yes, the philosophy
is for diaper tape and Rickert even as the "science of the universal
values" defined. Against this new "logic of history" to their extension,
critique and extension also Simmel G. and H.

Maier, also Troeltsch and Max Weber have participated, are the depth
and I believe accurate criticisms of Erich Becher in his book "Humanities
and Natural Sciences" (1921) have been charged. Even F. Kruger, in his
valuable book "About Developmental Psychology" (1915) a lot of
striking against Rickert notion of psychology said.

Both are characteristics of the historical subject matter can not
circumscribe.

Also, the science must be, for example in geography, in the lunar science,
but especially in the whole field of natural science at all,
individualizing approach, and also in the various historical and
historical sciences is largely legality and typical development
sequence of appearance rows.

Only if you also Rickert with the mechanical view of nature including the
biological and an exclusive association sensualistischen psychology
as the only true science already arbitrarily presumes to intellectual
ground, but all attempts to understand history in addition to an
explanatory phase, while recognizing legal history to give totally
rejects you can come to believe Rickert.

Neither can the ontic contrast to the mental-mental being and nature
of external facts, which, moreover, by the entelechies phenomena of
organic life is conveyed in a mere difference of views "transform,
yet it is fair to say that psychology had to history of no significance
(see Krueger thereof).

Also, the Wertbezogenheit is not essential for the historic
"Significant", it is sufficient to effect the size of the ability
of facts.

The real problem of finding the history, the question of the varied
types of knowledge and real reasons, foreign setting and the awareness
of W.

Dilthey so deeply absorbed, E. Spranger and the writer of these lines
are continuing problem of historical "understanding" by Rickert did
not seriously affect . The Epistemology of the Southwest German school
has its main factory in Rickert "object of knowledge" (3rd edition,
Tübingen 1915). In its center is an epistemological idealism, but not
the extreme rationalism and Logizismus like those of the Marburger,
but also the alog and foundations due arationalen recognizes reality
experience. The epistemological realism is at the top with the
cheapest possible means in the three forms of Kausalschlusses, the
interpolation and the realism voluntativen (Dilthey, fresh iron Köhler)
sought to rebut. All Being is present and its vivid foundations for
"contents of consciousness at all", which Rickert by a negative
process by which it's natural Ichbegriff (pssychophysisches subject,
psychological subject, epistemological subject) increasingly restrict
searches wins. The error of this procedure can not be like this,
but the absurdity is not a so called "over individual I, is neither
an external world, nor a shower, yet one body opposite has to accept.

The real 'object of knowledge' is now neither exist in a
bewußtseinsjenseitigen Being still at a level of contemplation
bewußtseinsimmanenten Act, but is that what we call "object" refer to
a "transcendental Shall", ie, the claims will be returned, given the
awareness on certain types of U rteilen to precipitate and in these
files with categorical forms changing. This idea is of spruce, which
is also the "If" the being, the conscience of the knowledge, the moral
claims of theoretical knowledge in advance can go. In his latest book
"system of philosophy" (1st Volume) Rickert has nothing much new added
to his earlier work. Looking over the whole of this school, so it comes
to the philosophy Marburger only a doubt-less preferable. It recognizes
ge passed on to stocks, it does not make the attempt, the whole
world into pure Denkbestimmungen disband, but they do so, unfortunately,
as far as disclosure of the rights of thinking and forfeit as in a
"nominalism," which differs from the nominalism about E. Have a positivist
and only the color of the presentation by difference. In every other
respect, the School of Teaching Marburger far been unsuccessful. Instead
of the immensely rich and admirably versatility Marburger thoughts
occur here schematization monotone repetition of a few extremely poor
and arid spirit, which, combined with the bloated, inherited by JG
Fichte, Icharroganz the entire universe in vain to try to make an
entire philosophy to bear. The so-called "culture" (the religion itself
is a spurious "norm and cultural awareness" in the last line back)
is a role and a meaning in the whole of the world attributed to
transmission, it is not the remotest importance.

A natural philosophy serious nature , a deeper foundation of psychology
or any achievements in this field, the school does not and can not
possess them, because they are disciples from the outset with the deepest
contempt against the wonders of nature met. Nature here is just like
spruce basically just "material" for an empty Kulturgetue that his last
to be meaningful in freely in the air pending a purely formal "values"
and "validity". The erroneous opinion that it would be of value to a
concept and should return "True" and "wrong" are just values among others,
is of Meinong, the author (see "Formalism in Ethics", 2nd edition),
and partly also by E. Lask, who just died when he grobmaschigen Schematismen
his teachers began to be overcome, has been refuted. It must be almost
as a cultural-psychological problem of how this empty German Kantschulen
in our country so strong dissemination could find. I see its
solution mainly is that they of the traditional historical direction
in German history the philosophical R echt their existence always and
every newly confirmed satte sufficient to conventional methods
"philosophical" justification, and also the fact that the appropriation
of those few formulas about Its value and individualising and
generalizing and viewing with elimination of all genuine philosophical
problems of metaphysics, natural philosophy, psychology, ethics and
aesthetics only a minimum of cost and thinking but also the adepts
filled with the consciousness, now a whole to be a philosopher.

(See also this diaper W. Band: "The philosophy in the German intellectual
life of the 19th Century", 1909.) Grabbed the far deeper problems
in the world and teaching the theory of knowledge, psychology and
the humanities also be expected from spruce Hugo Munster mountain in
his " Broad psychology "and his" philosophy of values. " He tried from
a purely epistemological and methodological claims out (admittedly
überkonstruktiv and fichteischer violence) a strict association
psychology to reconcile with the recognition of a primarily been marked
only "real life" (the actual metaphysical sphere), the only certain
method for general technical mastery in an outer natural mechanism
"umgedacht" will.

From this mechanism should be in explaining the philosophy and the
mental as a dependent mind. She is different, however, a
subjectivizing Aktpsychologie the basis of the humanities was. In
a looser associations with both Kantschulen was also Georg Simmel, from
an initially recruited more positivist school of thought on the problem
Kant having finally become a "life philosophy" durchrang whose result
in the same after his death appeared in the discount works "of life,
four metaphysical chapter represented. The essay "On Death" is the
deepest and maturity, what this peculiar and far beyond Germany's
borders stimulating thinker has written.

His essay on "individual act" in which he like Schleiermacher and the
author in his "Ethics" of "universal moral values" as "individualgültige",
ie one per individual moral determination of the people to show
examines the ethics significantly encouraged. Bergson suggested
by his recent "life philosophy" the dark, remains vague and confused,
can not equal applause gezollt. The fourth Leonhardstrasse Kantschule
Nelson reasoned that a rich group of researchers of all disciplines
united, has their views, particularly in the numerous works of its
founder, and in the treatises on the Friesian School "above. In sharp
contrast to the "transcendental" view of the Kantian Apriori, which Cohen
started, here is the doctrine that, we are only in the way of
anthropological self-reflection with the help of a procedure for the
reduction of the given science the supreme principles of reason can
establish.

From a "confidence in the reason" basis, which is a purely subjective
act remains, the supreme self-evident insight, which we are given
indirectly, thinking process, not "created" but only as an original
possession of the mind revealed.

The condition of this school is the existence of a direct look at
reason, which partly illustrate principles (mathematical principles),
partly unanschaulich (eg causality) are evident, and by the reductive
procedure neither "deduziert" nor "designed" but only for
self-reflection as an evident need to be unveiled.

So apriorische the possession of our mind not to apriorische, but on
aposteriorische way found and discovered. An "epistemology" in the usual
sense, provided that the "possibility of knowledge" which only wants
to Nelson is a pointless enterprise, because only in basic knowledge
evident already obtained, we can otherwise finding a test subject and
criticism. From Fries related to this theoretical basis of the school
has an extremely lively and, as one who is her distant, say, very
valuable, both as a critical positive creative activity unfolded.
Its theology heavily fertilized (see Bousset, and especially Rudolf
Otto, whose excellent work on "The Saints" from the school is strong).

In spite of church and dogma, there have been millions and
millions of men and women true to the loftiest and most generous
promptings of the human heart.  They have been true to their
convictions, and with a self-denial and fortitude excelled by none,
have labored and suffered for the salvation of men.  Imbued with the
spirit of self-sacrifice, believing that by personal effort they could
rescue at least a few souls from the infinite shadow of hell, they have
cheerfully endured every hardship and scorned danger and death.  And
yet, notwithstanding all this, they believed that honest error was a
crime.  They knew that the bible so declared, and they believed that
all unbelievers would be eternally lost.  They believed that religion
was of God, and all heresy of the devil.  They killed heretics in
defense of their own souls and the souls of their children.  They
killed them, because, according to their idea, they were the enemies of
God, and because the bible teaches that the blood of the unbeliever is
a most acceptable sacrifice to heaven.

Nature never prompted a loving mother to throw her child into the
Ganges.  Nature never prompted men to exterminate each other for a
difference of opinion concerning the baptism of infants.  For me there
are only two people. People who give a tip, and people who do not
enter. The service provides my skill. Fritz. I think he is very polite.
Johann. Since he will probably give very little. Who presented me
with kindness, makes me melancholy. But if such a me a ducat
hinwirft and zuruft: Schlingel, heb him! because I think: Ha! what a
pleasure it is, a rascal to be!

Previous Second appearance. Pralling. Pralling (enters a step from his
Cabinet and calls). Hey! Serves Both (to see). Yes! Commanding? Pralling.
I have already rung twice. Would you like to be, to bring me rum?
Johann (elegantly nodding). At once, sir! (For Fritz.) Have you heard?
He had me in six weeks still no penny tip, and such a man has no claim
on me to make rum. I let the wait. Fritz. Oh, on the eight I do not. The
Lord does not hold much of him. Johann. The ists, to see what you need.
Even the valet does not like it. Fritz. Well, if the do not like him
because he may soon be out of the palace checks. The will it already
be duly looking calumniate. Johann. Yes, the rides on the favors of the
Lord gnädgen, and no one can call it from the saddle throw. Fritz. You
know so his motto: Everything for the benefit of my gnädgen Lord,
and while he is stuffing their pockets full. Johann. This will also
give a good wash, if the fraud once its light tags to come. I do not
know a sophisticated villains. There is just one of our not mind.
Vorige third appearance. Wolf cabinets from the right. His demeanor is
very noble servant against pride, against Higher very humbly. Wolf
(hears the last words). Again conference? By whom was the speech? Johann.
From a good friend. Wolf. Nu ye are worthy of such friendship! Is all
concerned? The guests served? Johann. At the most punctual! Wolf.
The gnädge lets you Mr. ban of gifts to the guests. You did it
to call for his generosity. Both. Then we have this won. Wolf. Be
unselfish. This is a great virtue. Johann. But a very serious -
not true, Mr. valet? Wolf. Where is Valentino? Does he have the
acknowledgment of the singer brought? Fritz. He has not yet returned,
although the gracious Lord has ordered that he should appear in the
game, so that the gentlemen in the game had something to laugh about.
Wolf (smiling). A truly harmless fellow. Johann. There should be but
the Lord valet a work of mercy and the common practice guy from the
home. Wolf. God forbid me from such injustice. That would be against the
spirit of my gnädgen domination. The boy is clumsy and crude, but
good-natured and loyal.

Then he stands in favor of the Lord, the servant of all loves his own
as children. Yes this is probably a seltner man in the world does not
find its equal.

And you wanted to praise his writing in books, you'd never come to an
end. Drum thanked the heavens that you brought into this house, because
those who serve him faithfully, which is itself truly served. The
breakfast for the gnädgen Lord!

Fritz. Immediately! (Geht ab.) Johann (the departure). The morality
of this people will I still get under the earth. (Ab) Wolf. These
are a few fine durchgetriebne villains. The must I create from the neck.
Fourth previous appearance. Baumeister Gründling. Gründling. Good morning,
Mr. valet, can I have the honor of my Lord of Flottwell waiting
to make?

Wolf. Mr. Baumeister, I must ask forgiveness, but His grace I have
just ordered you to apologize to everyone, because you now make a
hunting game. Gründling. If you do not know Mr. valet whether Mr
Flottwell of my plan for the construction of the new lock has to be
good? Wolf. He has really liked him. Only has happened, the fact that
he, another builder has a similar plan has been presented and offering
to lock in the same size to ten thousand guilders probably Feiler to
build. Gründling. I'm sorry, but as an honest man, I can not according
to its requirements probably build Feiler.
At last, the people becoming tired
of this petty, theological tyranny, banished Calvin.  In a few years,
however, he was recalled and received with great enthusiasm.  After
this, he was supreme, and the will of Calvin became the law of Geneva.
Under the benign administration of Calvin, James Gruet was beheaded
because he had written some profane verses.  The slightest word against
Calvin or his absurd doctrine was punished as a crime.

In 1553, a man was tried at Vienne by the Catholic church for heresy.
He was convicted and sentenced to death by burning.  It was his good
fortune to escape.  Pursued by the sleuth hounds of intolerance he fled
to Geneva for protection.  A dove flying from hawks, sought safety in
the nest of a vulture.  This fugitive from the cruelty of Rome asked
shelter from John Calvin, who had written a book in favor of religious
toleration.   To perform all offered many obstacles. The most common
is not having _château_ or something that remotely resembles it,
or on the Peninsula or in the vast expanse of mainland Europe, but this
offense is whether hidden or additional own a house, a hunting or a farm,
which, speaking in French, can be described _château_, without much
scruple of conscience. Still, however, is often the case that the family
is elegant, stylish or smoke, has no home where the smoke comes, that
is, not even cortijo. If you have a friend or relative, the family can
take advantage of the friendship or kinship. If there is any way
or cortijo is deleted and the paperback is only limited to the
summer hidropática, sweet, salty, or both. Want this to mean not
having to spend _château_ or cottage a month, used all the time
in the bathroom, but nobody in the family never bathe. Just take the
waters by inhalation, breathing, for example, the breezes of the
Atlantic in that Biarritz, Saint Jean de Luz in San Sebastian, Santander
or Deva. Finally, if the lure of eclipses in these months heat too
troubled, and the bag is drained so that there is not to go swimming
or watch the sea drive is stylish, elegant and family, anywhere in
the Channel, where sometimes the plain and bare, without trees or shrubs
in the ground, mimicking the sea, and cigarrones, crabs and fish,
and there they are taking the fresh, full flavor, until it is the
opportune time and time again without infringing Madrid liturgies
of the laws and good tone.

Against all this intolerance, one man, a minister, raised his voice.
The name of this man should never be forgotten.  It was Castellio.
This brave man had the goodness and the courage to declare the
innocence of honest error.  He was the first of the so-called reformers
to take this noble ground.  I wish I had the genius to pay a fitting
tribute to his memory.  Perhaps it would be impossible to pay him a
grander compliment than to say, Castellio was in all things the
opposite of Calvin.  To plead for the right of individual judgment was
considered as a crime, and Castellio was driven from Geneva by John
Calvin.  By him he was denounced as a child of the devil, as a dog of
Satan, as a beast from hell, and as one who, by this horrid blasphemy
of the innocence of honest error, crucified Christ afresh, and by him
he was pursued until rescued by the hand of death.

Upon the name of Castellio, Calvin heaved every epithet, until his
malice was satisfied and his imagination exhausted.  It is impossible
to conceive how human nature can become so frightfully perverted as to
pursue a fellow-man with the malignity of a fiend, simply because he is
good, just and generous.

Calvin was of a pallid, bloodless complexion, thin, sickly, irritable,
gloomy, impatient, egotistic, tyrannical, heartless and infamous.  He
was a strange compound of revengeful morality, malicious forgiveness,
ferocious charity, egotistic humility, and a kind of hellish justice.
In other words, he was as near like the God of the old testament as his
Health permitted.

"How are you really satisfied with your commitment?" "Oh, thank you,
very good! Delicious meals. All three days of poultry. The business
is splendid. Today exceptionally poor house.

But otherwise: shiny!" So we talked and similarly in " crocodile "and
in the vicinity of the artists table. Yes, Donna Maria Josefa, aka Mrs.
Scheid iron, and Mr. Farolyi learned from the goose." Well, is it's not
bad with the poor Flametti! " Mr Farolyi, "if he still can afford
poultry. children, certainly has the money to the cashier. Was
so business was a bomb, the" Indians "!" And one day she came really,
the goose; from Rapperswyl. White, without head, claws and feathers,
she lay on a dish. "You see me, Laura: beautiful goose, eh? - but get
nothing," Jenny pointed to the stairs, through the Lydia and Raffaela
had come. "They should look trompieren!" And the beautiful goose,
goose fat, which Riesengans was fried and was now crisp and nicely
tanned, before formally zerblätternd crispness, on the same dish, sealed
in the buffet. "Laura," said Jenny again, "believe you get the what
of it?" And in turn, showed the stairs. "Not the Black unterm nail!
Be careful of what to make faces! This will be a Fez! Jawohl:
goose! Cough werd 'them I was!" But Raffaela and Lydia came, opened the
buffet Jenny how the triptych opens an altar. "You see her," she said,
"the beautiful goose!" And she took the bowl from the cupboard and
lifted it high, like the bowl of Salome with the head of Jochanaan
hochhob, Raffaela and screamed at: "ähhh, the goose!" Fanatical and
ruthless she threw both arms high in the bowl zustürzend and they
umtanzend. Lydia overcome but it looks like transfiguration. Over
the next best chair fell down. "The beautiful goose!" she breathed,
completely absorbed and dreamy, with folded hands, eyes and Muslims.
"When is it eaten?" And her mandible bebberte greedy and excited
as a cat's mouth trembles when she sees the canary. Jenny gloated at
the agony of the victims. With a free hand she held the body of
Raffaela, which all institutions made in the possession send the goose.
"When is it eaten? When will they eat? verspeist When will they?" now
also called Raffaela. Lydia sat still with eyes sparkling dedicated.
And Jenny, amused, cruel, perverse: "Maybe tomorrow. Maybe tomorrow.
Maybe even tonight. Depending on!" "Why tonight?" extended Raffaela
affected. "Well," said Jenny, quite grande dame, "maybe a few friends
of mine and my husband, and we celebrate a little farewell." ähhh! "
Raffaela cried, "we come, we come too!" But Lydia had already
become sentimental. Emil she thought at the sight of goose, this
landmark of culture and prosperity, the epitome of all domestic security
and marital Einfalt. Your remote Emil and thought it happier,
bygone age. Salty tears ran it on the flabby cheeks cried ... Succeeded
Jenny in this way, at the expiration of the cynicism that mästenden two
Scheid iron gag, but then she saw that, so only half the work was done.
Hazardous threatened the quieter elements of the ensemble: Mr. Meyer,
this idealist, which is not suited to Flamettis flag at half-blowing,
is the most personally affected by Flamettis felt misstep and his
renunciation of a first class reputation. Miss Laura, who surely stoked
at the Meyer, because it jückte, even the director to play at the
box office to sit and money einzuheimsen instead of the cashier by
the local shell to tippeln.

Jenny did not the secret conspiracy that is in the "crocodiles" were
forged. Admittedly it was a condition of Meyer imagine that he could
almost Flametti unstop variety. What was easier than that?
Of Laura believed this, they know the verstohlensten Geschäftskniff
because it had succeeded, the Jenny Seidel & Sohn unwind.

But they should have charged. "Until here and no further", said to Jenny.
"If they leave, we are broke." Max, this good-natured taps, saw
nothing! If you, Jenny, just a word against that Meyer said he drove
it like a bad animal. On the Meyer he does not come. Carefully
Jenny went to work. First of all, bought her the angel. After him
several cigarettes and beer brands zugesteckt had she asked him
one evening, almost: "You know, Angel, tell me, what is it actually with
the ensemble, the Meyer plans? Need you not embarrassed. Kannst say it
bluntly." Angel was very embarrassed. "What I know of an ensemble!"
he stuttered. "Since I know nothing of." And harmless: "The Apache
package we have written together, Mr. Meyer and I ..." "Make me no!"
Jenny broke him strictly. "We have not deserved to thee, that thou
comest to us now.

You will probably remember what you owe us anything.

It is always been present for you. Nothing we can come to you. You will
probably remember how you come to us, demolished and starved. You will
probably know that Max thee in his hand. Need to Annie just to
think.

Well, no one speaks like this. "angel was still embarrassed. The scene
was embarrassing.

He moved the chair back and forth, which he at the top of the backrest
was taken, let him dance on the one hind leg. "Jenny," he said with a
helpless shrug aged baron, the passionate emotions of a former lover
to the Retirade Landschlößchens his track, "Jenny, I can not ....,
I do not know ..... I've got nothing to say to you .... I do not know
what I should tell you ...." But remembering is: "Yes, certainly:
it was the talk of ..." He cleared his throat. "Yes, quite true, but
you know but notice! You know the Meyer! Bit Litti Titti!" But Jenny
short sections: "Well, all right! Run only", because he took that as a
sign of their dignity offended girls and tried, delicate finish: "I can
'it's the same, what did I think? Ich hab' ja abdicated to me is
all the same!"

"Well, well!" Jenny said, "strictly 'not for thee! decision I know!"
"Lena," Jenny said to the former pianist, as once again came to
visit, "you just come right.

Every moment can come soubrette. They want but away from us. The Meyer
wants to make its own troops. Thou shalt let's see how I do in prayer!
" 'If you only say," Dienert Lena, "that I've brought two signatures.
Already worried.

Here is one of my husband, the other of which Leinvogel. "She unfolded
two papers, spread them on the table, plättete it with the hand, and
saw Jenny from falling addicted fanatic eyes waiting for." Let's see!
" said Jenny. She read. "Good, good. Hast du gut gemacht. Thou shalt
not for nothing did.

Come, drink ne cup of coffee!" And she poured coffee. It knocked. Herein
joined the soubrette. "Day, Laura!" said Jenny. "Day, lady!" Lena said
hidden. Laura wore a black velvet bolero jacket, a gift of their
Russian girlfriend, and a green knit hat, from her short-cut, blond
hair scrubby advantageous abstach. She wanted to make purchases, take
Meyer, and Jenny verschiedenes mitbesorgen. The two women mustered
they may not gloating and envy. "Sit, Laura! Drink doch 'ne cup
of coffee with," Miss Laura was a little fearful. "Actually, I have
a hurry," she said. "Well, you should only!" Jenny said to her, "keep
your jacket just in!" Miss Laura sat down and Jenny rushed to
einzugießen. "We have just been speaking about our process,"
Jenny began. They knew that it should first be arrived, the soubrette
of the sensitive situation Flamettis out of. "Yes, we have just spoken
from the process. Now it's out with the Güssy from the Traute. Now
you can wrap the two. See they produce as you's black and white!
" And they showed Miss Laura, the two papers, which Lena had brought.
Lena smiled. The soubrette took a sip of coffee, her hat pushed back
a bit and read. But then they too smiled, not rude, just a bit
ironic, and gave the papers back .

Do you think that something good will? " she asked maliciously.
The truth of the statements here securitized was not willingly.

Also they seemed to suffer doubts on the notarial credit unterschriebnen
personalities. Lena's husband was just released from prison, where he
for a corrugated theft had two months stay. The other Lord, Lord
Leinvogel Laura was not known, but it is therefore probably an even more
dubious Notabilität. The two men insured oath Instead, the love of the
two Lehrmädchen Güssy and Traute to and the time to paint more obsessed
and bought it.

Jenny pulled the soubrette, the two papers from the hands, folded
them together and smiled: "Whether the effect is!

Whether the benefits! Since you's so black and white, what it
means for Dämchen were! And also: I fight to their credibility. "The
soubrette there's a pull. But she bethought himself and parried with
a compassionate shrug. Lena was visibly surprised. "What does it mean
to challenge?" soubrette, the now open the party to their colleagues.
"So?" cried Jenny, upset by the obvious Renitenz. "I have the
evidence!" And with outstretched arms in a vague direction of showing:
"One has a perjury done. Can I prove. In my own office. The other
has a whole cellar of protective guard people, which they brought
ribs - then she was a waitress - to the hospital and brought home
three years working for dismounted ...!"

And when they realized that things were unlikely, as they said in "By
law they would have never allowed.

But what is not! "They made a break to grab the air and the effect to
be seen. Lena smiled, a smile, some said: Seest thou well! Take care!"
They should just come to me! "Drove Jenny dangerous to continue
"to be what an experience! The have's needed to run the police! Von
wegen integrity! Because of abuse! "She was angry. All of her efforts,
all plausible reasons not caught. A new proof that conspiracies were
forged. The soubrette seemed quite indifferent to whether its
process Flametti lost or won. Yes, it seemed to Jenny fierce arguments
only resolutely abandon. Unerhört! And when Miss Laura now with a
vigorous jerk austrank their coffee and preparing to go, since Jenny
felt not only that the attack had failed, but that now everything
at stake. She had this person in five minutes the whole system of
their defense up.

Because it was not successful, they win, so the matter could be
dangerous. The biggest trump card had approached. Nothing was left
unturned, the new force to prevent.

The open betrayal Flametti had at the last Friends still bring
against him, all to convince outsiders. This was equivalent to ruin.
"You know, Laura," Jenny began anew, "- still remain 'nen moment -
you know: Finally, yes, it's the same whether the process we win
or lose.

Since there are still all sorts of possibilities. We needed our passports,
for example, only to give to Germany and the "Indians" for great
variety to edit.

It is so narrow of us to sit here with such a hit! Germany would be
'created for it! Bags full of money we could make. But my husband
will not. In the worst case, if all else tearing, it will be a few days
locked up. But then let me know times! "And she typed so excited with
the index finger on the table that the cups shaking." Then you'll see
who I am!

"Laura stood up and was involuntarily retired, prior to their chairs
standing a little back against the mirror. "Is this a threat to
be?" she asked nervously, and her eyelashes flew underlined.

"You need not be so noble to do so," cried Jenny, with a hand
motion, the ambiguity of the soubrette very clearly described. "I know
it.

I understand what you me cackle. I'm not on the head. A warm
cup of coffee in the body: because gacksen them all! From espionage:
They will probably remember how you came here with this Meyer! The fact
that you were not quite clean, you have yourself said. One renowned
not such things. There is truth behind what has been. And because
Sage-femme run!

Everybody knows that! This can be considered !..." "outrageous!" Screamed
the soubrette. "This is an enormous boldness! What are you! "She was now
just before the mirror, her appearance in a strange way, has doubled.
Your hair blonde hissed. Narrow your body bent in front of revulsion and
disgust." Ah, you've's not necessary to aufzuregen! We know all about
you. Even through your Meyer! Let's just good!

"" Go, Jenny, reg 'dich but not on! "Lena calmed," we have it in your
hand yes! We know decision! "" What do you want from me? What can you
tell me? "Swallowed the soubrette." Well, your Mr. Meyer - remember
times - where have you lived before you came to Flametti? "Laura
remembered well. She was markedly pale and trembled ". What is you
at that!" she cried, and drove with his hand to his head. "Oh,
nothing! Me goes to nothing. But the police, perhaps. You will
not forget what you had earned your bread, and what your Mr. Meyer is a
role played in it. "" I tear your hair out, you bitch! "Screamed
the soubrette, who grabbed Lena on collar and pulled it back and forth.
Jenny led the two ladies. "Well," she said finally, "you know. Yes you
can now think about what you prefer. We are not forcing you. It is
up to you ...

You need me, no commissions to pay. Thank you! Do only what you can
not!

"" Go only for printing, assisted Lena, "let your posters! We know that
they have ordered posters. It has not in vain his friends! "Posters
ordered?" asked Jenny, who did not even knew. "So so!

Na, but I must tell Max!" "Adieu!"

cried Laura, "I have nothing more to say," And so, it proposed to
the door.

"Everything nothing!" Mr.

Meyer said, when he met Laura in "Lohengrin," "we need out of the
murky pool.

Can not help anything. We have it in your hand yes, you have even
betrayed! You do not aufzuregen.

What can they know about us? "And she went selbander for printing,
according to the price agreed to ask posters.

On the corner but, when Rudolf Mosse house, they came forward and Traute
Güssy, very fresh, very wirsch and familiar, with red Baking, in
red and brown Strickjacketts.

"Ah, Laura! Ah, Mr Meyer!" they cried from afar, "how are you? What
is it?

Can you do not need us, we have heard, it makes a troupe!" "Where do
you think that a group!" Laura threw away. "No trace!" Meyer reiterated.
"Fesch see her out!

If you good, what?" "Oh," said Traute quick and respect, "we are
doing well," and she stressed that in the usual manner the breasts
down, "we have found, what we need. "" Well, that's right! " Mr. Meyer
said practically. And Miss Güssy tried, with heavy eyes sink into
him, his hand away. "Well, and what makes the process?" "Oh," schnalzte
Traute, "he has seen Flametti what he has given, he is getting
already know!

And also, this Verbrechergustel! Denen will put the craft! "more
for now they seemed not to want to say, because it pivots on immediately:"
And what of Bobby?

Nice guy he was, as he annoyed that I's had with the Flametti!
Immer, he wanted money from me. And I had none but themselves! "" Oh,
he is comforted!

" said Laura. "Five others since then," Mr. Meyer was restless.
"Well, goodbye!" Laura said, "we've's hurry!" "Adieu, adieu!" cried the
girls fresh. It had been a little away from each other, but the hand
of Miss Güssys still rested in the Lord Meyer.

Your long arm was like a rose garland, the most verhakt dress when you
pass. Flametti As the evening came to the idea, he pfifferte much to
himself, as was his habit when he had violently disagreeable. He broke
Zündhölzchen between the fingers investigated the candlesticks on the
piano, looked at the curtain cord, scratched with the toe of
Papierschnitzeln who were on the floor, and walked up and down.

The real idea being, that it all depends upon the will of God,
and not upon the character of the person to be damned or saved; that
God has the weakness to send Presbyterians to Paradise, and the justice
to doom the rest of mankind to eternal fire.

It is admitted that no unconverted brain can see the least of sense in
this doctrine; that it is abhorrent to all who have not been the
recipients of a "new heart;"  that only the perfectly good can justify
the perfectly infamous.

It is contended that the saints do not persevere of their own free
will--that they are entitled to no credit for persevering; but that God
forces them to persevere; while on the other hand, every crime is
committed in accordance with the secret will of God, who does all
things for His own glory.  Compared with this doctrine, there is no
other idea, that has ever been believed by man, that can properly be
called absurd.

As to the doctrine of the perseverance of the saints, I wish with all
my heart that it may prove to be a fact, I really hope that every
saint, no matter how badly he may break on the first quarter, nor how
many shoes he may cast at the half-mile pole, will foot it bravely down
the long home-stretch, and win eternal heaven by at least a neck.

Twelfth.  With having spoken and written somewhat lightly of the idea
of converting the heathen with doctrinal sermons.

Of all the failures of which we have any history or knowledge the
missionary effort is the most conspicuous.  The whole question has been
decided here, in our own country, and conclusively settled.  We have
nearly exterminated the Indians; but we have converted none.  From the
days of John Eliot to the execution of the last Modoc, not one Indian
has been the subject of irresistible grace or particular redemption.
The few red men who roam the Western wilderness have no thought or care
concerning the five points of Calvin.  They are utterly oblivious to
the great and vital truths contained in the Thirty-nine articles, the
Saybrook platform, and the resolutions of the Evangelical Alliance.  No
Indian has ever scalped another on account of his religious belief.
This of itself shows conclusively that the missionaries have had no
effect.

Why should we convert the heathen of China and kill our own?  Why
should we send missionaries across the seas, and soldiers over the
plains?  Why should we send bibles to the East and muskets to the West?
If it is impossible to convert Indians who have no religion of their
own; no prejudice for or against the "eternal procession of the Holy
Ghost," how can we expect to convert a heathen who has a religion; who
has plenty of gods and bibles and prophets and Christs, and who has a
religious literature far grander than our own?  Can we hope, with the
story of Daniel in the lion's den, to rival the stupendous miracles of
India?  Is there anything in our bible as lofty and loving as the
prayer of the Buddhist?  Compare your "Confession of Faith" with the
following:

"Never will I seek nor receive private individual salvation--never
enter into final peace alone; but forever and everywhere will I live
and strive for the universal redemption of every creature throughout
all worlds.  Until all are delivered, never will I leave the world of
sin, sorrow and struggle, but will remain where I am."

Think of sending an average Presbyterian to convert a man who daily
offers this tender, this infinitely generous and incomparable prayer!
Think of reading the 109th Psalm to a heathen who has a bible of his
own, in which is found this passage:  "Blessed is that man, and beloved
of all the gods, who is afraid of no man, and of whom no man is afraid!"

Why should you read even the new testament to a Hindoo, when his own
Chrishna has said:  "If a man strike thee, and in striking drop his
staff, pick it up and hand it to him again?"  Why send a Presbyterian
to a Sufi, who says:  "Better one moment of silent contemplation and
inward love, than seventy thousand years of outward worship?"
"Whosoever would carelessly tread one worm that crawls on earth, that
heartless one is darkly alienate from God; but he that, living,
embraceth all things in his love, to live with him God bursts all
bounds above, below."

Why should we endeavor to thrust our cruel and heartless theology upon
one who prays this prayer:  "O God, show pity toward the wicked; for on
the good thou hast already bestowed thy mercy by having created them
virtuous?"

Compare this prayer with the curses and cruelties of the old
testament--with the infamies commanded and approved by the being whom
the are taught to worship as a God, and with the following tender
product of Presbyterianism:  "It may seem absurd to human wisdom that
God should harden, blind, and deliver up some men to a reprobate sense;
that He should first deliver them over to evil, and then condemn them
for that evil; but the believing spiritual man sees no absurdity in all
this, knowing that God would never be a whit less good, even though He
should destroy all men."

Of all the religions that have been produced by the egotism, the
malice, the ignorance and ambition of man, Presbyterianism is the most
hideous.

But what shall I say more? for the time would fail me to tell of
Sabellianism, of a "Model trinity" and the "eternal procession of the
Holy Ghost."

Upon these charges a minister is to be tried, here in Chicago; in this
city of pluck and progress--this marvel of energy, and this miracle of
nerve.  The cry of "heresy" here, sounds like a wail from the Dark
Ages--a shriek from the Inquisition, or a groan from the grave of
Calvin.

Another effort is being made to enslave a man.  It is claimed that
every member of the church has solemnly agreed never to outgrow the
creed; that he has pledged himself to remain an intellectual dwarf.
Upon this condition the church agrees to save his soul, and he hands
over his brains to bind the bargain. Should a fact be found
inconsistent with the creed, he binds himself to deny the fact and
curse the finder.  With scraps of dogmas and crumbs of doctrine, he
agrees that his soul shall be satisfied forever.  What an intellectual
feast the confession of faith must be!  It reminds one of the dinner
described by Sidney Smith, where everything was cold except the water,
and everything sour except the vinegar.

Every member of a church promises to remain orthodox, that is to
say--stationary.  Growth is heresy.  Orthodox ideas are the feathers
that have been molted by the eagle of progress.  They are the dead
leaves under the majestic palm; while heresy is the bud and blossom at
the top.

Imagine a vine that grows at one end and decays at the other. The end
that grows is heresy; the end that rots is orthodox. The dead are
orthodox, and your cemetery is the most perfect type of a well
regulated church.  No thought, no progress, no heresy there.  Slowly
and silently, side by side, the satisfied members peacefully decay.
There is only this difference--the dead do not persecute.

And what does a trial for heresy mean?  It means that the church says
to a heretic, "Believe as I do, or I will withdraw my support; I will
not employ you; I will pursue you until your garments are rags; until
your children cry for bread; until your cheeks are furrowed with tears.
I will hunt you to the very portals of the tomb, and then my God will
do the rest.  I will not imprison you.  I will not burn you.  The law
prevents my doing that.  I helped make the law, not, however, to
protect you, nor deprive me of the right to exterminate you, but in
order to keep other churches from exterminating me."

A trial for heresy means that the spirit of persecution still lingers
in the church; that it still denies the right of private judgment; that
it still thinks more of creed than truth; that it is still determined
to prevent the intellectual growth of man. It means that churches are
shambles in which are bought and sold the souls of men.  It means that
the church is still guilty of the barbarity of opposing thought with
force.  It means that if it had the power, the mental horizon would be
bounded by a creed, that it would bring again the whips, and chains,
and dungeon keys, the rack and fagot of the past.

But let me tell the church it lacks the power.  There has been, and
still are, too many men who own themselves--too much thought, too much
knowledge for the church to grasp again the sword of power.  The church
must abdicate.  For the Eglon of superstition, science has a message
from truth.

The heretics have not thought and suffered and died in vain. Every
heretic has been, and is, a ray of light.  Not in vain did Voltaire,
that great man, point from the foot of the Alps, the finger of scorn at
every hypocrite in Europe.  I left D. José María to see what was happening,
and when I put the foot out of the camera, I learned of the compromised
situation that had befallen the _Rayo_. The storm not only prevented
the entry into Cadiz, but he drove toward the coast, where encallaría
insurance, crashing against the rocks. It was bad luck _Santa Ana_, we
had left, could not be worse than ours. I watched with eagerness the
faces of officers and sailors, to see if that was any indication of hope,
but unfortunately for me, all I saw signs of great discouragement. See
the sky, and I saw terrible ugly, see the sea, and found very
Sañudo: it was not possible to turn over to God, And He was so unfavorable
to us since 21!

The _Rayo_ ... ran into the North. According to the indications iban
sailors, who was beside me, we passed in front of the bank Marrajotes
of Get Out, John Ball, compared to Torregorda and, finally, facing
the castle of Cadiz.

In vain all the maneuvers are executed to bring the bow into the
bay.

The old ship, a frightened horse, refused to obey, the wind and sea,
with mighty fury running from south to north, dragging him, without
which science could be nothing to stop sailing. Pretty soon exceed the
bay .

To our right was soon Rota, Punta Candor Punta de Meca, Rule and Chipiona.
There was no doubt that _Rayo_ inevitably going to crash right on
the coast near the mouth of the Guadalquivir. I need not say that the
candles were loaded, and not simply as an appeal against this heavy
storm is also declined topmasts. Finally, it was thought necessary to
chop sticks, so that the ship was under the waves rush. In large storms
the boat needed to pump, oak high grass wants to be humble, and their
masts which can not bend the branches of a tree is in the painful
precision of amputees, losing members to save life. loss of the
ship was already inevitable.

Chopped sticks and more tables, you will be abandoned, and the only hope
was to be able to anchor near the coast, which prepared the anchor,
reinforcing moorings. Fired two cannon for help to the beach
and close, and clearly distinguished as some fires on the coast, we
are pleased, thinking they would not miss us help. Many felt that a
Spanish or English ship was stranded there, and saw that the fires
were ignited by the crew shipwrecked. Our anxiety grew by the day,
and for me, I must say I felt closer to a disastrous end. Neither
did care what happened on board, nor the embarrassment of my spirit
could handle more than death, that inevitable judged.

If the ship crashes, who could save the space of water that separate
the earth? The most terrible storm is where the waves are stirred against
the ground, and seem to be digging into it to take pieces of the
deep sea abyss.

The thrust of the advancing wave and violence that creeps to retire
are such that no human force can defeat them. Finally, after several
hours of mortal anguish, the keel of _Rayo_ played on a sand bar and
stood . The hull and all the remains of its rigging retemblaron a
moment: it seemed that trying to overcome the obstacles in his path,
but it was higher, and the ship, leaning forth from one side and
another plunged her stern, and after a frightening crack was no
movement. Everything was closed and was no longer possible to deal
more than saving lives, crossing the area of sea that separates
us from the coast. It seemed almost impossible in vessels that were
on board, but had hopes that we send aid of earth, for it was evident
that the crew of a wrecked ship just bivouac there, and could
not be away from the Balandre war output of which in such cases the
authority should have provided naval Cadiz ... The new _Rayo_ made
shots, and we expect more relief with impatience, because not come
soon, all would perish with the ship. This wretched cripple, whose
bottom was opened to run aground, threatening to tear its own
convulsions, and could not take the time that deranged the nails of
some of its frames, we would be at the mercy of the waves, without
more support than give us the messy remnants of the ship.

The land could not help us, but God wanted to hear the alarm cannon
sloop that had been done to the sea from Chipiona, and we were
approached by the bow, keeping a good distance.

Since its large mainsail sighted we secure our salvation, and the
commander of _Rayo_ gave the orders for shipment without a
check in such dangerous moments outrage. My first intention, when
I saw that it was transhipped, was run alongside the two people
there that interested me: the gentleman and Malespina Marcial, both
injured, while the second was not so serious. I found the officer
of artillery in quite poor condition, and said to those around him:
"Do not move me, let me die here." Marcial was carried on deck and
was lying on the floor with such prostration and despondency that truly
inspired me fear his face. He raised sight when I approached him
and tomándome hand, said with shocked voice: "Gabrielillo not forsake
me .-- To earth!

All we're going to land, 'I exclaimed trying to resuscitate, but he,
moving his head with a sad gesture, seemed to presage a disgrace. I
tried to help with lifting, but after the first effort, his body fell
again Lich, and finally said: "I can not." bandages his wound had
been dropped, and the disorder of that tight situation who did not
find the application again. I cured him as I could, consoling words of
hope and tried to laugh, ridiculing his look, to see if it revived in
this way. But the poor old man did not deploy their lips, but inclined
his head with gloomy gesture, insensitive to my jokes like my consolations.
Busy here, warned that he had not started boarding the boats. Almost
from the first that they were dropped D. José María Malespina and
his son. My first impulse was to go after them following the orders
of my master, but the image of the injured seaman and left me
contained.

Malespina did not need me, while Marcial, almost as dead closely with
your iced my hand, saying: "Gabriel, do not forsake me." The boats
dock hard, but despite this, once transhipped wounded, The embarkation
was easy, because the sailors were precipitated by slipping them into
a rope, or throwing a jump. Many were thrown to the water to reach
swimming.

It crossed my imagination as a terrible idea which of those two procedures
used to save me. There was no time to lose, because the _Rayo_ was
disrupted almost all the stern was sinking and the outbreak of the beams
and frames that either half may announce soon that mole would become
a boat. Everyone ran with alacrity to the boats, and the sloop, which
was kept at a distance, jockeying with the ability to resist the sea,
collecting them. The boats returned empty soon after, but were
soon filled again.

I saw that it was abandoned in the Middle-man, and I went to crying
and stifled some sailors, a request to load a save to Marcial. But they
did enough to save it themselves. In a moment of desperation I tried
to echármele him, but my little forces barely able to lift his
arms to the ground fainting. I ran across the deck looking for a
charitable soul, and some were about to yield to my entreaties,
but the danger distracted them from thinking as well.

To understand this inhumane cruelty, it must have been found in trances
so terrible: the feeling and love disappear before the self-preservation
dominates the be completely comparable to a sometimes fierce.
"Oh, those evil do not want to save, Marcial! - exclaimed with great
pain. - leave - he said -. It does on board than on land. Márchate you,
run, kid, you leave here. "I do not know what more my idea mortifies
mind: whether to stay on board, which would perish without remedy,
or just leaving out that bastard. Finally, the other could voice of
nature that some other force, and say a few steps to the side.
Retreating to embrace the poor old man, and then ran quickly to the
point where the last board sailors. There were four when I arrived, I
saw that the four were thrown into the sea and came swimming to the
boat, as he was about ten or twelve yards away. "What about me - I
exclaimed in anguish, seeing as I left --. I'm going too, me too! ".
I shouted with all my strength, but I did not hear or did not
want to make the case.

Despite the darkness, I saw the boat, I saw them get into it, but this
operation could be determined only by the view. I am prepared to throw
into the water to follow the same fate, but at the same moment that I
will be found in this resolution, my eyes no longer see a boat
and crew, and before me there was that horrendous dark water.

All means of salvation was gone. I turned their eyes to all sides, and
I did not see more than the waves that shook the remains of the ship,
in heaven or a star, on the coast or a light. The sloop was
gone too. Under my feet, kicked in anger, the hull of _Rayo_ broke
into pieces, and only kept the party united and whole-head with
deck full of offal. I was on a raft report that at times threatened
to unravel. To see me in this situation, I ran into Marcial saying: "I
have left, have left us!". The old man joined in with great work,
supported in his hand, lifted the walked with his head and clouded
the view that dark space surrounded us.

"Nothing! - cried - not seen anything. Or boats, or land or lights, or
coast. Not again. "In saying this, a terrible cracking sound beneath
our feet deep in the bow of plaice and entirely flooded. The palace
was in a violent side, and we had to be heavily agarráramos the basis
of a windlass to avoid falling overboard. The apartment we are missing
the last remaining _Rayo_ would be swallowed by the waves. More like
never abandoned hope, I still believe that situation may be extended
until dawn without worsening and I am comforted to see that the
stick ratchet still standing.

With the firm purpose of getting a helmet when he had just sunk, I
looked at that tree proudly floating pieces of rope and rags of sails,
and resisted, Colossus desgreñado by despair, asking mercy to heaven.
Marcial was dropped in deck, and then said: "There's no more hope,
Gabrielillo. Neither of them want to return, or the sea would leave
them if they try. Because God wants it, here we both die. I care nothing
for me: I am an old and not good for the damn thing ... But you ...
You are a child, y. ..

"In saying that his voice became unintelligible by emotion and
hoarseness. Shortly after I heard these words clearly:" You do not
have sin, because you're a child. But I ... Well that when
one dies and ... Let's say ... well, like dog or cat that does not
need a priest to come and give the _solución_, but enough with that
and understand one's self with God. Have not you heard you that? ".
I do not know what I answered, I said nothing, and I began to mourn
without consolation."

Mood, Gabrielillo - continued -. The man must be a man, and now
is when you know who has a soul and who does not. You have no sins,
but I do. They say that when one dies and no cure is you confess, you
must say what is the first in the consciousness that you find. Well I
tell you, Gabrielillo, I confess to you, and I will say my sins
and that God is behind me is listening to you, and I will forgive.
"Horrified by the Silent and solemn words I had just heard, I hugged
the old man, who continued in this way: "Well I say that I have
always been a Christian Catholic _postólico_, Roman, and I have always
been and am a devotee of the Virgin of Carmen, who called to my aid
at this time and say that if twenty years ago that I did not receive
communion or confession, was not by me but by _mor_ the damn
service, and it will always leave one for next Sunday.

But now I weigh not having done so, I say, and declare and perjuro, I
wish to God and the Virgin and All Saints, and that anything that has
offended me punished, because if I confessed and communicate this
years was _aquél_ of _casacones_ damn, that made me go out to sea
when he was the _proeto_ meet with the Church. I have never stolen or
the tip of a pin, no more lies I said that any other for that joke.

Of the clubs that gave my wife thirty years ago, I regret, though
he was well taken, because that was more bad _churras_ and a genius
picón more than a Scorpion. I have not missed so much as it sends the
Ordinance, no hate to anyone other than the _casacones_, who had
wanted to see action picadillo, but then say that we are all
children of God, I forgive them and forgive _así mismamente_ the
French, who brought us this war.

And do not say more because I think I am going to full sail. I love God
and I am calm. Gabrielillo, abrázate me, and apriétate well against
me. You have no sins, and you walk with angels _finiqueleando_ divine.
Better to die at your age that live in this world ... _emperrado_
With that mind, boy, that this is over. The water rises, and _Rayo_ is
at an end. The death of that drowning is very good: do not be
scared ... abrázate me. Within a minute we will be free of grief,
I realized my God peccadillo, and you as a happy Easter, dancing
across the sky, which is carpeted with stars, and there appears
that happiness does not end ever, because it is eternal that's like
another said, tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow and the next and
always ...

"He could not talk more. I got heavily into the body of the Middle-man.
A violent coup sea shook the bow of the ship, and felt the scourge of
water on my back. I closed my eyes and thought of God. At the very
moment I lost all feeling, and did not know what happened.

XVI-again-I do not know when, to enlighten my mind clouded the concept
of life, I felt freezing cold, and this accident only introduced me to
the very existence, since no memory of the past to keep my mind and could
not take care of my new situation. When my thoughts were clearer and
lethargy vanished from my senses, I found myself lying on the beach.

Some men were all around me, watching with interest. The first thing I
heard was: 'Poor ...!, and returns itself. "Slowly I was coming back
to life, and with it the memory of the past. I remembered Marcial,
and I think the first words were articulated by my lips to ask him.
No one knew an answer. Among those around me to recognize some of the
sailors _Rayo_, I asked for Middle-man, and all agreed that had
perished.

After I learned how I had saved, but I was not right. Diéronme do not
know what to drink, I was taken to a nearby house, and there, beside the
fire, and cared for by an old woman, recovering health, but the forces
. Then they told me that having left another sloop to recognize the
remains of _Rayo_, and a French ship that ran the same fate, I found
next to Marcial, and were able to save my life.

My companion was dead agony. They also knew that the crossing of the
wreck to the shore had died some unhappy. I wanted to know what it
was Malespina, and there was no reason for me to give a parent or
child. _Santa Ana_ asked for, and told me they had come to a happy
Cadiz, whose story I immediately decided on my way to meet my master.
I was quite a distance from Cadiz, on the coast that corresponds to
the right bank of the Guadalquivir. They must immediately embark
on the march to go as soon as possible during the project.

I waited two days more to recover, and at last, accompanied by a sailor
who took the same path, I march to Sanlúcar. On the morning of 27 I
remember we crossed the river and then continue our journey on
foot to leave the coast.

As the sailor who accompanied me was francote and happy, the trip was
everything nice that I could expect, given the state of my spirit,
still despondent over the death of Marcial and the last scenes that
I witnessed on board. Along the way we departed on the wrecks and
the battle that came after him. "Good Middle-Marine was a man - told
my travel companion -. But who will put out to sea with a cargo of more
than sixty years? Well, you used to have that. - It was a brave sailor
- I said - and so fond of war, nor their aches arredraron when he
tried to come to the squad. - Well, I dismissed it - continued the
sailor -. I do not want more battles at sea. The King pays
poorly, and then, if one is lame or bucket, you are good nights,
and if you've seen I do not remember.

It seems that the King case lie so badly to be able to serve. What
do you think? Most of the commanders of ships that have been beaten
on 21, many months ago that their payments are not paid. Last year was
a Captain Cadiz, not knowing how to keep themselves and their children,
began to serve in an inn. His friends found him, though he tried to
hide his misery, and finally managed to get so vile state.

This does not happen in any nation in the world, then let out a big
scare was that we conquer the English! So do not say anything about
weapons. The arsenals are empty, and asking for more money to Madrid,
or one quarter.
To
prevent famine  one plow is worth a million sermons, and even patent
medicines will cure more diseases than all the prayers uttered since
the beginning of the world.


Ingersoll's Lecture on Voltaire


Ladies and Gentlemen:  The infidels of one age have often been the
aureoled saints of the next.

The destroyers of the old are the creators of the new.  As time sweeps
on the old passes away and the new in its turn becomes of old.

There is in the intellectual world, as in the physical, decay and
growth, and ever by the grave of buried age stand youth and joy.

The history of intellectual progress is written in the lives of
infidels.

Political rights have been preserved by traitors; the liberty of mind
by heretics.

To attack the king was treason; to dispute the priest was blasphemy.

For many years the sword and cross were allies.  Together they attacked
the rights of man.  They defended each other.

The throne and altar were twins--two vultures from the same egg.

James I said:  "No bishop; no king."  He might have added:  No cross,
no crown.  The king owned the bodies of men; the priest, the souls. One
lived on taxes collected by force, the other on alms collected by
fear--both robbers, both beggars.

These robbers and these beggars controlled two worlds.  The king made
laws, the priest made creeds.  Both obtained their authority from God,
both were the agents of the infinite.  With bowed backs the people
carried the burdens of one, and with wonder's open mouth received the
dogmas of the other.  If the people aspired to be free, they were
crushed by the king, and every priest was a Herod, who slaughtered the
children of the brain.

The king ruled by force, the priest by fear, and both by both. The king
said to the people:  "God made you peasants, and He made me king; He
made you to labor, and me to enjoy; He made rags and hovels for you,
robes and palaces for me.  He made you to obey and me to command.  Such
is the justice of God,"  And the priest said:  "God made you ignorant
and vile; He made me holy and wise; you are the sheep, I am the
shepherd; your fleeces belong to me.  If you do not obey me here, God
will punish you now and torment you forever in another world.  Such is
the mercy of God."

"You must not reason.  Reason is a rebel.  You must not
contradict--contradiction is born of egotism; you must believe. He that
has ears to hear let him hear.  Heaven is a question of ears."

Fortunately for us, there have been traitors and there have been
heretics, blasphemers, thinkers, investigators, lovers of liberty, men
of genius, who have given their lives to better the condition of their
fellow-men.

From the grandmother who Manschettenmiesse the nachmals has become quite
famous, many would still be reported, but because they in the
history that I want to tell at the end, only a einzigmal "Miau" has to
say, it's aims for a decorous opportunity verspart. It happened, however,
that with our three cats so stately home care expressed by the befallen
Daenenkrieg even went wretchedly used; my two boys and a smaller
third, adding the government has had with me and her mother walk into
the stranger, and so hospitable we started out, but it was in the early
years, a turbid, katzenlose time. While we had a Kindermaedchen what
was called Anna, her round face looked good at all times, as they
would just come from Torfabladen why the Children of the "black
Anna called it, but a cat in our rented house to take, we still do
not have the courage to win.

There - three years were passed - came from an approved run itself,
a white and black spotted animals, already well-bred and supple
Gemuetsart. What is this Kaeterchen to say? - At least in the
Pyramidenritt. Since the two major the ordinary boys Zubettegehen but
even too simple, so she's had invented, on the black Anna to bed to
ride, so that they sat on her shoulder and the little children
herunterbaumelten front legs.

They are the inventors, the discoverers, the great mechanics, the kings
of the useful who have civilized this world.

USIA has done very well to come this test is a brave Marine. - Then
go to these reasons Paca, and see what you replied - he replied
increasingly agitated -. Anyway, tell him I'm good and healthy and that
my presence here has been very necessary. The truth is that in the
rescue of _Santa Ana_ main I have taken part. If I had not said
those guns as well, who knows, who knows ... And what think
you? You can still do something more, you may still be that if the
wind is favorable to us, we rescued a couple of ships tomorrow ...
Yes, sir ... Here I am pondering a plan ...

We'll see, we'll see ... So goodbye, Gabrielillo. Be careful
what you tell Paca. - No, I did not forget.
When Voltaire came to this "great stage of fools," his country had been
christianized--not civilized--for about fourteen hundred years.  For a
thousand years the religion of peace and good will had been supreme.
The laws had been given by christian kings, sanctioned by "wise and
holy men."

Under the benign reign of universal love, every court had its chamber
of torture, and every priest relied on the thumbscrew and rack.  Such
had been the success of the blessed gospel that every science was an
outcast.  To speak your honest thoughts, to teach your fellow men, to
investigate for yourself, to seek the truth, these were crimes, and the
"Holy Mother Church" pursued the criminals with sword and flame.

The believers in a God of love--an infinite father--punished hundreds
of offenses with torture and death.  Suspected persons were tortured to
make them confess.  Convicted persons were tortured to make them give
the names of their accomplices.  Under the leadership of the church
cruelty had become the only reforming power.  In this blessed year 1694
all authors were at the mercy of king and priest.  The most of them
were cast into prisons, impoverished by fines and costs, exiled or
executed. Man made space and mother and Mr. Pips Dudlinger found
accommodation in the rose arbor, where Mr. Pips immediately felt
uncomfortable because he does not wish could touch. The orchestra played
the Hindenburg Marsch, broad, massive and research, as the mentality of
this upper military equivalent, just as with their impresario
abuse occurred Ranovalla de Singapore, a Thai counterpart to Mother
Dudlinger, black face, a vermillion coat around the shoulders
hanged, aufgeputzt like a monkey.

Häsliterzett And just sang the "Schackerl" as such appointment to
Director Mr. Ferrero also appeared not to played tonight. Some
guests who were on the train, stood on. So he quickly place, away from
the artists table. "Schackerl, Schackerl trau di net!" were mother and
daughter singing with teasing Miene game and index finger raised to the
unhappy middle assertive Häsli go. "Trau mi net", said Mr Häsli
fearful and very verschüchtert, but with a sudden Aufschauen and
listening, which seemed unspeakably funny.

"Hoam to your old ", mother and daughter sang by him ausspotteten." Dreahn
ma dear no more, "sang and took all three with their hands. The music
was threatening the "no" out. "Ma no drinking in the Cold!" fell the
music. "In the Cold," repeated Mr. Häsli with flashing grin, and satirizes
Bauerneleganz. The kindness of his ladies was charming. They were so
right in her element. And so did Mr. Häsli but "the calf". The music,
however - this is not accompanied Mr Meyer, but the orchestra -
celebrating an orgy. Horns, Piston, bass clarinet, tuba, drum and bassoon
screamed, zeterten, shrieked, gröhlten.

The sound of trumpets holes stung like Sternwarte pipes on all sides
in yellow in the air, and spit music. The eyes of the winds twisted
and threatening than sheer balls out of their caves to fall. The
Disharmonieen shredded them. And Mr. Fournier, who is responsible for
the whole thing was like a gebärdete Wilder. "Kriagst dei Murrer
anyway ..." "anyway," nodded Mr. Häsli vergelstert. The whole place
roared with "anyway". The ladies shrieked, because they are in a peculiarity
of their recognized Idioms saw. "Tu 'Now forget it," guided Häsli wife
and their daughter On; with them the music, which suddenly was most
tender and pianissimo. "Let dei Old is Old ! johlte the music - Mr. Häsli
improvised a "Juhu!", which he jump with a joy, accompanied, and
reflected on his bare knee Tirolean "The net is di eat." net eat,
"repeated Mr. Häsli with täppischer carelessness, accompanied
magenerschütternd by the threat of Baßtrompete, like the "Murrer"
the Old klang so that Mr Häsli appalled and open-mouthed after Mr
Fournier stierte.

The smiled. The crowd raced. The rose bushes waggled. A Lord of
the pince-nez fell down. The "skull" stretched his legs away from himself
and his body remained with laughter. Annie turned to laughter, whinnying
to the page on her cavalier, that their heads touched. "Hoh, hoh!" roared
the "gallery". Flametti alone just grinned. And now began the Yodeller:
"hi Dero Hollo, Hollo Dero ....", advanced Schnack, clapping and the
three were flat on the stage. It was overwhelming. Sun was a success
yet. Unheard! Fixed noise spread. The mood was, "Jesse, Jenny!"
cried Miss Amalie full of delight and yet kopfschüttelnd, "Trau
mi net" as he sings!

How he sings! "" Collection, "cried Jenny. Rosa, and the soubrette
Güssy ran with the mussels." Go, pick! "Cried Miss Jenny also Traute
who still sat at the table and not by the cash register key. Miss Amalie
took the opportunity to break it, even go out. Ms. snipe stood up
to the Häslis and Flametti be congratulated. "To do it yourself money,"
said Traute irritated, but simple. "Are you going or do not cash
in?" threatened Jenny suppressed to avoid scandal to make. "I have
here keep up!" Traute replied. "What hast thou here?" "keep," said
Traute. "They take money from the cashier." "What do I, rag man?" Jenny
gritted despite Traute and grabbed the audience and concert
across the table at the collar. "Let me go!" cried Traute. "I got
the job, keep up. I saw you the pianist money zusteckten. But now I can
go if you want.

I did not feel like me you abuse it. You will see more. You are dismissed.
They make for us the checkout until we have a different take. "" Max,
"cried Jenny and swept behind the stage," Max! "Quite hysterical.
That was it too much, you were aware of their necks reckte. Traute
jerked the armpits, compassionate, and schnickte his head. As Jenny felt
a hand on her shoulder and turned around. The friend from Baden stood
behind her. He had come, just had the stiffening still on the head,
the umbrella hanging on the arm. Aufgekräuselt short mustache. Paletot
zugeknöpft, Managing Partner of the firm Seidel & Sohn, wholesale
clothes. "Well, what is there, Jenny?" he asked quietly,
begütigend. "Ah, good evening!" grabbed it, "nothing more". "Setz 'dich
doch her!" he said to her, hung Paletot, hat and umbrella on the hook,
and sat down, smoothing his tuxedo, to the artists table. "Nothing,
nothing!" Jenny insured. "Well, you see!" Mr. Seidel said, proud of
the suggestion that he is able to exercise felt. Traute was complacent
in the cloakroom. She had given her, this lady brothel. Flametti came
and asked a little unsure: "What's up?" and welcomed Mr. Seidel. Woman
sat in Häsli Director Ferrero. "You see there?" Jenny pointed to the
pair of negotiators. "I am!" jerked Flametti armpits. "Who collects?"
"Rosa, Güssy and soubrette." "Where is the Traute?" "In the dressing
room." "Good!" Flametti said, much in thought, and sat down, bloated
and abgehetzt to Donna Maria Josefas table. "That's fabulous!"
glückwünschte Mr.

Farolyi, art Reiter, and pushed out Flametti a cognac. "Well, you have
neatly rausgemacht you!" "Jo!" said Flametti away, crashed the cognac,
stood up and welcomed Ranovalla abuse. The place was now crowded. When
the orchestra played, understood his own words no more. Mr. Arista was
a vain endeavor to provide coverage to. "Only ever so out, just
always go with it!" he sang in a high treble. A trailing dress he
wore, with plenty of peaks occupied. His airs and graces were that
ligneous Grazie alttoskanischer noblewoman. But you heard him. In vain
he fought against the interests of loud animated Habitués. It was
only the gestures that seemed to indicate that he wanted passed. They
found it dégoutant.

As much as it was already Dandy, that the aristocracy on the whole
are made. It took so embarrassing references to their materialism is
not to reject it. It was a misunderstanding, however. The gestures of
the Lord Arista related to his bosom, quite only in its bosom, from
which the Couplet from A to Z acted. Ladies, ladies, ladies, he dar.
But: you do not understand him. Mr. Pips was the view of itself, a
ladies' imitator ever it was disgusting. "Not fish, not meat." "Come
with me but my car is out there!" Mr. Seidel worked by the company
at Seidel & Sohn Jenny, "my car is outside. You need only enter".
"relocat! Indians!" Flametti pushed forward in the ramp. "'s now!"
angel said to Annie, a moment on their table with flexed hands and
aufgestützten without regard to cigarette smoking gentleman. "Well, it's
a success!" "Do you see the little soubrette?" said Mrs. snipe Dudlinger
to mother, "as the Tribune! The understands it! This is a business!"
business shiny! " Dudlinger mother replied, quite verfettet but
friendly sympathetic. Flametti was their preferred favored protégé. The
"skull" and his sister were on but with two cavaliers who
looked somewhat wildly, and pointedly left the restaurant. Ostensibly
about some of their colleagues who do not lacked since the departure
pointed to glossieren. "Mba, mba, mba!" the music booms. And, Mr.
Director of the circus Farolyi Donna Maria Josefa, a horse like
no other knows, Flamettis declared friend, came from the wardrobe,
steifte in front of the ramp, knocked to the glass and said: "My dear
lord, you experience now the sensation of the evening. Flametti Our
friend is now his to you from St. Rotter edited "Indians" perform. Allow
me, with a few words about the joy of my evening wohlgelungenen and my
admiration for our dear Flametti expression. "The Indians" : what
feelings through our chest at the sound of that word! What hunches
delight the heart! What are your hopes and memories that lie buried!
The rush of our childhood, the joy of our Mannbarkeit! Who hoped not,
as the Indians of our own realm to durchschweifen. Wem jerks the
hand failed to fire water, the Bowiemesser, after the scalp of our
enemies !..." The ladies smiled hold. The eyes of her friends flashed
verständnisinnig, embarrassed. "We all know the names of our oppressors.
I need not to mention ...." Mr. Steix detective, who also was on
the lot, pulled out his notebook and recorded something." We all love
the freedom, the horses, the Wigwam, the warpath.

That everything you see in the "Indians" that our dear friend now you
will perform. You will see even more. Revenge and retribution in the
Hereafter. Suppress from the brutal violence of the invaders must be
Indians hiding in the jungle and swamp, between vipers and snakes.
That we are, dear reader, that we are expensive girlfriend. The air
of our quiet neighborhood becomes more and more filled with the
complaints of the victims, which the police herausgreift. The Nation
of Indians is contrary to the sunset. "But up there in the hunting
area ew'gen Sing Indian folk song his victory," and so I also concur
with the exclamation: "But up there in the hunting area ew'gen Sing
the Indian People's his victory song.

"In this spirit I raise my glass and comes on to the welfare and
prosperity, happiness and genius of our unique Flametti. He lived
high, "Mr Farolyi, the Hungarians, had raised his glass and emptied
it into a train." Flametti, the chief, high! Flametti, Flametti! "The
audience went wild. Johlte Man and stamped ... The curtain is
lifted. The stage was empty, and the" Indians "were held. It was
only the overture with thunder worgelnden - and lightning chords. Then
the warpath: "The last of the tribe of the Delaware, The Delaware
warrior The crowds -" Then the second verse: "When the last one we made
our best, if killed, ziehn Falkenaug 'and fire spirit To a large slip
up there. Then lift the Red brothers to a new kingdom and glory again,
and it reaches for its prey Blaßgesicht a criminal. "Then the third
verse, the Lord Farolyi was quoted as concluding:" And up there in the
hunting area ew'gen Sing the Indian People's his victory song.
ziehn Once again we are still on Kriegespfad, once more, when the
day of revenge is near.

"And the lights were dimmed in the hall. And the Indians, Flametti,
Jenny, the soubrette, Miss Rosa, Miss and Miss Güssy Traute pans Later
the red Chen, in high feather jewelry, and sang so monotonous
complaining-so-lost herzergreifend that Miss Amalien Dudlinger
mother and the tears in the eyes occurred, that Mr. Meyer suddenly
believed that he had played wrong, and, for a moment really also
attacked; that angel his excitement when the curtain not more
bemeistern was trembling as he lights a cigarette, and Mr Farolyi,
back at the Donna Maria Josefa sat over the other exclaimed: "If he
really nicely, the Flametti "Certainly would now Mr. Rotter his pleasure,
as the nose, especially the Flamettis were surprisingly well stuck. And
for the third verse was Max so splendid apotheosis out, - he alone
stood upright. The women knelt with lowered heads, and lances
around him. Then all jumped on, just prior to the ramp in a series,
and threatened with curved Tomahawk - that pillar of solid lumps such
Bengel considers excellence award would have to be. Especially the ladies
were well above expectations . It was a round, smooth success.
"Flametti! Flametti! Fire sham! "Screamed the <Roten Brüder> When the
curtain fell, and once lifted. Mr. Farolyi in vehement enthusiasm,
klatschend went up to the ramp. Donna Maria Josefa waved fluttery hand.
Mother Dudlinger, so selflessly to advance bogus Fifty francs had
shone a beam that has the entire Local hinstrahlte. Abuse de Ranovalla
Singapore, greasy wonder, stood up and let their eyes wander shaded.
They felt the exoticism of the "Indians" as a person dedicated to
their very ovation. And Flametti bowed to bear, smiling, boy with glowing
eyes, if all the happiness and success. The music voiced as to
appointment, the Missouristep of angels with self awareness poster
to be placed.

Bobby pulled his Sommerpaletot and parodied in glittering lizards
exhibited costume. "Flametti! Flametti! Bogus fire out!" raged the
audience still Flametti and had to appear alone. Bold, bright and large
he stood in the middle of the stage, Delaware from head to foot, hero
of this evening, dignitaries and chieftain of his area.

Kassierung After the servants but the ghost came from the "crocodile"
and the surrounding area and cleared with the help of the audience rose
hedges away, where they were through. An adjacent second room key was
opened. A variety of mixed ensembles with the audience took place:
it was danced. "No, Jenny, what you have for a lucky!" Raffaela cried,
"I need me a bit to put you!" Jenny and looked dreamy in the eyes.
"Raffaela lady," observed Jenny before, "Mr. Seidel, my friend from
Baden; Miss Amalie, Mrs. snipe." Raffaela And, just as Jenny was busy,
the Kassierung nachzuzählen: "What lucky! " "Oh, Raffaela," sighed Jenny,
"if only you knew!" "What does he do?" Raffaela whispered. And
Jenny, infinitely sad, the hand on the lips, then aside: "Oh, I will
prefer to remain silent," Mr. Seidel from Baden zwirbelte enterprising,
disciplined elegance with his mustache. He based the hand on the
thigh. The elbow was far off. "Boston" cried the dance folder and
slid with abrasive gebohnerten feet through the hall. snipe wife
shook her head if such a tumult. Miss Amalie, backs to the wall,
stroking their Zwergpintsch with the attitude of a well-groomed
woman who sits in the Hofloge. Flametti, Indians still in costume, and
went through the hall and receipted, and his stateliness renommierend
the liquid Congratulations evidence presented to him. It touched the
lance, the lederhosen, the necklace. Mr C. Tipfel of the Sunda
Islands was there. "You poussierst with Flametti!" Bobby threw the
unfaithful Traute before, with whom he has been weeks in rustic letters
stood. They stood at the curtain. "I've seen it. He has taken you to
the bone, as you the stairs hinaufgingst. I've also seen how you've
getuschelt each other." Dummer Fatzke! " Traute gave back, "what bild'st
you actually? yes Are two heads smaller than me! Would you eat a woman!"
"Well, well!" Bobby said, and mustered them from top to bottom.

"Pfui Teufel!" He took his umbrella, went to the Paletot said "Grüatzi!"
and fell in the "Hop twin." "Oh, Raffaela!" Jenny said, "you believe
it's not, but were" just starting, I will revenge me! "the soubrette
came to the table." Well, Miss, "said Mr. Seidel friendly," what you
drink? "The soubrette is adorned ". Eierkognak one?" "Hey, lady!"
the waitress, he finds "a Eierkognak!" the soubrette took place.
"Laura, I". "Miss Laura - nice name!" Mr. Seidel said, and put his
arm around her chair. Jenny did not. She had counted the cash and waved
Flametti. "Then take: Hundertneunzig Frankenstein." Flametti pushed the
money with gekrampfter hand in your pocket and felt obliged to
stand for a while to stay.

"Where is the Traute?" asked Jenny. "What do I know where the Traute is!"
he went on, "she will dance." Yes, Miss Traute danced. In
exuberant Vorüberschieben threw her a coquette-Flametti requesting
sight.

Hei, flew her head in the neck! "Yes, yes, the youth!" woman dreamed
snipe resigned. "Uff!" Flametti snorted, "it was a smear campaign!" Now
it ran by itself pushed Gone: Mr. Scherrer, Handlungskommis from Vienna,
with Miss Rosa. Gone pushed: Mr. Smooth, high-standing tower, Handlungskommis
from the Mark Brandenburg, with Miss Güssy. Gone pushed: Mr. Pips
hüftengewaltigen with Lydia. Gone pushed: the Lord Krematioriumfritze,
with the Feldgrau. "This is the other!" Jenny whispered confidentially
to Raffaela. "severely rich. The later gifts from French champagne
champagne Always he is doing now as Seeding 'he told me not." studly
man! " Raffaela gave an effort. It seemed to her a little thing to
arrive, Jenny the silence. Came from the wardrobe when the last Mr Meyer.
He had the grades hinaufgetragen. Undecided, he stopped, peppered Jenny's
wallet in his pocket which showed him at every step as a block
at the thigh suggested. "Ah, Mr. Meyer," said Jenny, and stretched
himself on the chair to him, "You give her! It is no longer necessary!
" and let the monster of wallet, which Meyer gave her indifferent, in
the bosom slip. And Mr. Meyer came to Flametti, looked into the crowd
and said: "Pfui Teufel, the heat," and also danced the waltz Dudlinger
mother. She held the Lord Pips firmly around the waist and be
turned on Zugstiefeln.

Mr. Pips but turned like a satellite around the sun. The most part he was
darkened. And Angel has also respects his mom Jenny, how's animated
can be obtained Smooth a basket. "Oh, the angel!" Mom smiled Jenny.
And there is a clock, a pack of students: Eleven Dutch forest. The
pushed and whistled and clapped them. And did their own performances
and sounds were all local to the head. Who the Indian festivals are
not attended to the end, and who did not know Jenny, saw next-day
surprises. Flamettis success was undeniable. And he was alone, just him.
He was celebrated in all shades. But it is precisely the vertrug Jenny
not. Especially the rejects. She could reveal in their obtuseness not
see that this Flametti Indians playing an image, a symbol was actually
a question of life, could not understand how a reasonable man, a
man, that could behave so childishly.

She had, in short, no sense of illusion, can not understand what the
Farolyi gekauderwelscht had. Games, betting, revolver shooting, Paris
Apaches, Rocky Mountains, and Honolulu, and a ride through the
desert, Komantschen, blood, dogs, and police: it was all Spanish villages.
External world and Jenny was vain to do so. It could be possible,
the whole festival was just for them have been arranged; Flametti
only for her, for mom Jenny, born, be it by the servant made when
they purchased carrots, whether by Mannderl and carved for Weiberl Weather
house. And especially for "Wigwam" had no meaning. She held for humbug.
In petty envy them clinging to their comments, threw him against
ordinary Vielweiberei.

As if a man of his type of skill of a single woman shackled, charmed
and supplies could feel. Flametti tried in vain, it is making it clear
morning at ten clock, in bed. She did not. "So what does that
mean?" She is dogged and passionate in bed. "That I will have my
rest!" Flametti finally said and turned to the other side. But that
was not satisfied with Jenny. So let them not abspeisen. She wanted to
have clarity because of this person, this Traute, the bitches,
which did not even knew what the Klosettschnur was there and it took her
impudent face to tell you they have "sold". "You know, Max I
will answer! "

On the morning of the 10th the father was taken to the
torture room.  The executioner and his assistants were sworn on the
cross to administer the torture according to the judgment of the court.
They bound him by the wrists to an iron ring in the stone wall four
feet from the ground and his feet to another ring in the floor.  Then
they shortened the ropes and chains until every joint in his arms and
legs were dislocated.  Then he was questioned.  He declared that he was
innocent.  Then the ropes were again shortened until life fluttered in
the torn body; but he remained firm.  This was called the question
ordinaire.  Again the magistrate exhorted the victim to confess, and
again he refused, saying that there was nothing to confess.  Then came
the question extraordinaire.  Into the mouth of the victim was placed a
horn holding three pints of water.  In this way thirty pints of water
were forced into the body of the sufferer.  The pain was beyond
description, and yet Jean Calas remained firm.  He was then carried to
a scaffold in a tumbril.  He was bound to a wooden cross that lay on
the scaffold.  The executioner then took a bar of iron, broke each leg
and arm in two places, striking eleven blows in all.  He was then left
to die if he could.  He lived for two hours, declaring his innocence to
the last.  He was slow to die and so the executioner strangled him.
Then his poor lacerated, bleeding and broken body was chained to a
stake and burned.  All this was a spectacle--a festival for the savages
of Toulouse.  What would they have done if their hearts had not been
softened by the glad tidings of great joy, peace on earth and good will
to men?

But this was not all.  The property of the family was confiscated; the
son was released on condition that he become a Catholic; the servant if
she would enter a convent.  The two daughters were consigned to a
convent and the heart-broken widow was allowed to wander where she
would.

Voltaire heard of this case.  In a moment his soul was on fire. He took
one of the sons under his roof.  He wrote a history of the case.  He
corresponded with kings and queens, with chancellors and lawyers.  If
money was needed he advanced it. For years he filled Europe with the
echoes of the groans of Jean Calas.  He succeeded.  The horrible
judgment was annulled--the poor victim declared innocent and thousands
of dollars raised to support the mother and family.  This was the work
of Voltaire.

Sirven, a Protestant, lived in Languedoc with his wife and three
daughters.  The housekeeper of the bishop wanted to make one of the
daughters a Catholic.  The law allowed the bishop to take the child of
Protestants from its parents for the sake of its soul. The little girl
was so taken and placed in a convent.  She ran away and came back to
her parents.  Her poor little body was covered with the marks of the
convent whip.  "Suffer little children to come unto me."  The child was
out of her mind; suddenly she disappeared; and three days after her
little body was found in a well, three miles from home.  The cry was
raised that her folks had murdered her to keep her from becoming a
Catholic. This happened only a little way from the christian city of
Toulouse while Jean Calas was in prison.  The Sirvens knew that a trial
would end in conviction.  They fled.  In their absence they were
convicted, their property confiscated.  The parents sentenced to die by
the hangman, the daughters to be under the gallows during the execution
of their mother and then to be exiled.  The family fled in the midst of
winter; the married daughter gave birth to a child in the snows of the
Alps; the mother died, and at last the father, reaching Switzerland,
found himself without the means of support.  They went to Voltaire.  He
espoused their cause.  He took care of them, gave them the means to
live, and labored to annul the sentence that had been pronounced
against them for nine long and weary years. He appealed to kings for
money, to Catherine II of Russia, and to hundreds of others.  He was
successful.  He said of this case:--The Sirvens were tried and
condemned in two hours in January, 1762, and now in January, 1772,
after ten years of effort, they have been restored to their rights."

This was the work of Voltaire.  Why should the worshipers of God hate
the lovers of men?

Espenasse was a Protestant, of good estate.  In 1740 he received into
his house a Protestant clergyman, to whom he gave supper and lodging.
In a country where priests repeated the parable of the "Good Samaritan"
this was a crime.  For this crime Espenasse was tried, convicted and
sentenced to the galleys for life.  When he had been imprisoned for
twenty-three years his case came to the knowledge of Voltaire, and he
was, through the efforts of Voltaire, released and restored to his
family.

This was the work of Voltaire.  There is not time to tell of the case
of Gen. Lally, of the English Gen. Byng, of the niece of Corneille, of
the Jesuit Adam, of the writers, dramatists, actors, widows and orphans
for whose benefit he gave his influence, his money and his time.

But I will tell another case:  In 1765 at the town of Abbeville an old
wooden cross on a bridge had been mutilated--whittled with a knife--a
terrible crime.  Sticks, when crossing each other, were far more sacred
than flesh and blood.  Two young men were suspected--the Chevalier de
la Barre and d'Ettalonde. D'Ettallonde fled to Prussia and enlisted as
a common soldier. La Barre remained and stood his trial.  He was
convicted without the slightest evidence, and he and d'Ettallonde were
both sentenced:  First, to endure the torture, ordinary and
extraordinary; second, to have their tongues torn out by the roots with
pincers of iron; third, to have their right hands cut off at the door
of the church; and fourth, to be bound to stakes by chains of iron and
burned to death by a slow fire.  "Forgive us our trespasses as we
forgive those who trespass against us." Remembering this, the judges
mitigated the sentence by providing that their heads should be cut off
before their bodies were given to the flames.  The case was appealed to
Paris; heard by a court composed of twenty-five judges learned in law,
and the judgment was confirmed.  The sentence was carried out on the
1st day of July, 1766.

Voltaire had fought with every weapon that genius could devise or use.
He was the greatest of all caricaturists, and he used this wonderful
gift without mercy.  For pure crystallized wit he had no equal.  The
art of flattery was carried by him to the height of an exact science.
I want 'ne mother; that weeaß d's! and therefore that 'd's weeaß,
I winched a factory de Pest de Helle and throat in a' no '. I'm just
'ne mother. - Does ma 'woll as a Wirml? I have more such odes geflennt
fetched from the moments where a Hiperle aso n de world came to D's
death, and mercy is drieber. Your BABT unto Teiwel geschert. You
have gebet't and sung, and I've got me de Fieße bluttig gone after ee'n
eenzigten Neegl putter milk. How many hundreds of nights I would
go a Kopp zerklaubt how I ok and I keente as a Kindl ok eenzicb a time
to a churchyard 'rumpaschen.

What Kindl has such a crime, eh? and must be a elendigliches end - and
drieben in Dittrich, se da wer'n in wine gebad't and washed with
milk. Nee, nee: where's start here - ni ten horses soll'n me
zuricke hold. And I say: stirmen se Dittrichcns building - I am de
erschte - and grace everyone who wants to hold me. "Schiller had of
traditional material and the traditional dramatic form because of
the" William Tell ", his collection of folk drama, three acts (Tell,
Rütli, Rudenz action) to run side by side. Captain dare, the mass of
Weber as dramatic hero, and in a huge increase leads to the summit.
Dramenbau As usual, this would be the height of the third act. The
"Peripetie" is missing. But in the soul of the spectator crowd the last
two, unwritten Act: it looks ahead and suffers like this for nothing
Häuflein humanity up against his fate as a few hours free, and may
feel relieved to then only so cruel i de dull, painful binding
everything back to be finite.

Only when dust and ashes of the Earth and physical drift, the divine spark
of the soul free: in dreams or in death. The fourteen years of
"Hannele," before degenerate his brutal father in the village
pond iced escapes, the only fear for the life that is so happy in heaven
wants to mother and to love the Lord Jesus, the uncanny, grotesque
in the miseries of the poor house in fever dreams fulfilled his existence,
before it coming to an end, becomes a harrowing and redemptive image
of the human soul. Wenig innermost seals are so musically how this dream
poetry, between the world of the soul and the reality goes back
and forth, freely and creatively.

For the given elements of the child, village soul , the Bible, the fairy
tale, the father, mother, teacher, it builds a world and act on, the
deeper relations with all the metaphysical sense of life in closes.
In "Fuhrmann Henschel" is the feeling of the dark power of the
environment to full passivity. But there is no dependence on
individuals, coincidentally - as the fate of old-style drama - the
carter crushed, it is the inescapable tragic entanglement
and ambivalence everything finite, he muffled erfühlt against each
resistance is useless. A simple, helpless man stares through the
window of his basement apartment in the night sky, ponders for a debt
that ripped him to the ground, and finds none, ponders for a meaning
behind the events that push him away, and finds none, and bäumt not and
will not take revenge and go quietly into the darkness: "Ane noose was
put to me, and in the loop as I stepped hold no ... My ways may also
blame icb scin. Who weeß 's? Hätt't so I better give kenn'n care. The
shrewd Teifel is just like me. I'm just always grad'aus gone. "Captain
has the" Fuhrmann Henschel "in the first collection of his works under
the" social dramas "for classification purposes, although these titles
actually only the first, nor biased his dramas" Before Sunrise "meets
Henschel is not socially very deep - he's wagon owners and has a
servant among them - nor is his fate by his social status factors.
Also "Rose Bernd" is not a social tragedy, though it is set up.
We want it in the ranks of the bourgeois tragedies arrange to Schiller's
"Kabale und Liebe" and Hebbel's "Maria Magdalene", as the figure of the
father in all related remains. And yet, beyond the tragic violence of
the captain's drama also the bourgeois world, their ominous in
itself -binding, and breaks to the last depths of the metaphysical
by. smells from nature and love of life, a peasant girl aufgescheucht
of the lusts of men, "pursued and harassed as a Dog", in debt and
hounded perjury until it negates life and curses until it is at the
roadside in the child's birth with our own hands strangles, not
from fear of shame: " 's sullde ni Laba! I WULLT 's ni! 's sullde ni
meinc tortures derleida! 's sulldte duer bleib'n, where's hiegehert.
" The nature, life itself is in the negative-fatal tragic pity
this mother.

He is
too busy numbering hairs and watching sparrows.  He listens for
blasphemy; looks for persons who laugh at priests; examines baptismal
registers; watches professors in college who begin to doubt the geology
of Moses and the astronomy of Joshua.  He does not particularly object
to stealing, if you don't swear.  A great many persons have fallen dead
in the act of taking God's name in vain, but millions of men, women and
children have been stolen from their homes and used as beasts of
burden, but no one engaged in this infamy has ever been touched by the
wrathful hand of God.  All kinds of criminals, except infidels, meet
death with reasonable serenity.  As a rule there is nothing in the
death of a pirate to cast any discredit on his profession.  The
murderer upon the scaffold, with a priest on either side, smilingly
exhorts the multitude to meet him in heaven.  The man who has succeeded
in making his home a hell meets death without a quiver, provided he has
never expressed any doubt as to the divinity of Christ or the eternal
"procession" of the Holy Ghost.

Now and then a man of genius, of sense, of intellectual honesty, has
appeared.  Such men have denounced the superstition of their day.  They
have pitied the multitude.  To see priests devour the substance of the
people--priests who made begging one of the learned professions--filled
them with loathing and contempt. These men were honest enough to tell
their thoughts, brave enough to speak the truth.  Then they were
denounced, tried, tortured, killed by rack or flame.  But some escaped
the fury of the fiends who loved their enemies and died naturally in
their beds.  It would not do for the church to admit that they died
peacefully. That would show that religion was essential at the last
moment. Superstition gets its power from the terror of death.  It would
not do to have the common people understand that a man could deny the
bible, refuse to kiss the cross; contend that humanity was greater than
Christ, and then die as sweetly as Torquemada did after pouring molten
lead into the ears of an honest man, or as calmly as Calvin after he
had burned Servetus, or as peacefully as King David after advising with
his last breath one son to assassinate another.

The church has taken great pains to show that the last moments of all
infidels (that Christians did not succeed in burning) were infinitely
wretched and despairing.  It should be Azur thy name! Let me hope from
your words suck! (Musik. - terrible thunder. The smoke rises and the
mirror appears Azur in Silberdock Egyptian dress, the head is wrapped,
the halbentblößten arms and the face is with blue foil, instead of
the two eyes shining stones. Magische lighting.) Azur. You! me through
the magic power was born, my area you a blessing or a curse?
Cheristane. Flott To protect Wells spirit, I chose you. Azur. Can I be?
Look in the book of fate! (Now followed by a trembling music underneath.)
"No Fatum rule on his life, he bring himself to misfortune or blessing.
He can only be alone to warn By misfortune he himself can only umgarnen,
And because it is free from all chains of fate, Can it be I only rescue
from shame. "Cheristane. I am aware of the fate of strict acquittal,
The, to punish me, dreamed up is low. Receive my golden here spellbook.
It will teach you what My List liebgequälter clever mind has invented.
But I must machtberaubt by Hinnen fliehn. That's why you take me
instead of the deed And let me not, in my desolate home ziehn.

Azur (takes the book). Zieh quiet home, faithful to you I want to act
As rescuers again shalt thou behold me. (The cloud closes. Music.)
Cheristane. Oh, hätt ichs never dared to walk on earth, to ask that
this desire punisheth delight! (It falls on knees and bows her head
before sorrowful the altar.) Eleventh plaintive music gig in
transformation in a short forest. On the side of a hill thicket. hunters
pull on the scene. choir hunting. Gilts, forests to roam, free Hebet
the chest. Kühn to attack the boar, Is highest pleasure of the hunter.
Ho ho! Ho ho! Weidgesellen happy! If the track was found, he wallows in
the black blood that is reflected in his wounds yet last embers of the
evening. Ho ho! Ho ho! Huntsman is happy! Subtracting custom home to
hunters, the night beckons us to trust Ruh, examining his Liebchen lodge
Closes Pförtlein softly. Ho ho! Ho ho! Hunter bride is happy!
(All from.) (Valentin, who was hiding in the bushes, coming out.) Valentin.
Because of my continued their hunt, as long as you want. Ich werd
mich da so wildschweinmäßig treatment. I schießet all together, the
Sappermenter if I am only a tap on shotguns hätt. I can not understand
what the people make the damn game ever have. What song is but the Lord,
even the rich life so difficult! To s' cattle plague and people, need
s' hunt every week. God forgive me my sins, I do not understand what
dran find this creep in the canyons That Smell by Juchten. In short,
in all seriousness said, 'here are not stupid as hunting. Even three
o clock is the hour for the people and for the dog. Each comes with
its socket, And catch da s' to the groom. After racing s' possessed,
without a morsel z 'eat whole days by the forest, And that is a
entertainment! Ah, this is where God eim bewahrn, D 'hunters are all
Narrn. In short, hunting let me stay. What the hunters are driving
boys, How s' me habn herumgestoßen, hätt Soon I shot myself. Over a
hundred thousand roots eim Leave the guy jumbled, And it is hardly on
the nose, tuck s' at all to blow, And the hot s' a hunt! Oh, the sky
seis sued. Müde as a ghetzter Has Putting into the cool grass, Believe,
because it is all alone, If a huge pig. And we can not want to fight,
come back a couple of bears, on the pages of a few tigers, And yet
God knows what for cattle, And since you are the midst of it all!

That I hold no meaning. (Expires.) Repetition No, the kind I have
in mind. D 'hunter so you can not offend. Indeed, if no hunter would
Fräßen us at the end bears.' S Wildpret wants you to enjoy, but
whereas a shoot . Bratne woodcock, hazel hens, God, how do the Viennese!
And I agree with them: Hunting and Wildpret must be. (Ab) Twelfth
appearance transformation A lovely area in the background, a clear lake,
enclosed by lovely mountains. Right, a rock above him in the entrance
Cheristanens rock cave, before which she in her previous costume, but
without a crown, and looks into the distance. Cheristane. Now,
he has quickly climbed the steep Höh and is the sweet looking
Minnas hut send, which he mentioned that they are always his favorite
umschirme. So it may be because for the last sight of her look. (Short
Music.
In those days the philosophers--that is to say, the thinkers--were not
buried in holy ground.  It was feared that their principles might
contaminate the ashes of the just.  And they also feared that on the
morning of the resurrection they might, in a moment of confusion, slip
into heaven.  Some were burned and their ashes scattered; and the
bodies of some were thrown naked to beasts, and others buried in unholy
earth.  Voltaire knew the history of Adrienne Le Couvreur, a beautiful
actress, denied burial.  After all, we do feel an interest in what is
to become of our bodies.  There is a modesty that belongs to death.
Upon this subject Voltaire was infinitely sensitive.  But the French
seem to insist on leaving. - Veremos - said my master -. Anyway,
the battle will be glorious. - Glorious, yes - answered Malespina -.
But who says it is lucky? Sailors are forged illusions, and perhaps
for being too close, unaware of the inferiority of our war against the
British. These, plus a superb artillery have everything
needed to quickly replenish their failures. Do not say anything as to
the personal: the best of our enemies is composed mostly very old and
marine experts, while many of the Spanish ships were manned largely
by people from Cam, lazy and always knows just the job; the body of
infantry is not a model, because the vacancies have been filled with
ground troops very brave, no doubt, but that tide. - Well - said my
master - within a few days we will know what has to prove that. -
What has become of me I know - noted Doña Francisca -. These gentlemen,
while that have achieved great glory, will be home with their heads
broken. - Woman, what do you understand that? - Said D. Alonso can not
contain an outburst of anger, which lasted only an instant. - More
than you! - She replied warmly -. But God will want to preserve you, Mr.
D. Raphael, to return safe and sound. "This conversation happened
during dinner, which was very sad, and after referred to as the
four characters do not say a word.

Once it is checked off, which was tiernísima and by a special
favor, typical of that solemn occasion, let alone the kind parents
to the bride and groom, allowing them say what they do and no
witnesses to the disguise does not force them to omit an accident that
was breathing its grief. As much as I could not attend the event, and
I is therefore unknown what happened to it, but it's easy to assume
that all the tenderness imaginable would be for both sides. Malespina
When you left the room, was more than a pale deceased. Despidiose in a
hurry for my masters, who embraced him with great affection, and left.
When we went to where my Amit, we find it: so great was his pain
that loving parents could not calm her spirit with ingenious reasons,
not temper his body with that kind of costume in a hurry the drugstore.
I confess that, deeply sorry, I too, seeing the misery of the poor
lovers are the cushions in my chest that I rencorcillo inspired
Malespina. The heart of a child and forgive easily, and mine was not the
least prepared to sweet and expansive feeling.

VII-A the next morning I prepared a big surprise since my love
stronger tantrum that I had in your life . When I got up I saw that D.
Alonso was very kind, and his wife more irritated than usual. When
she went to church with Rosita, warned that Mr was great hurry to get
some shirts in a suitcase and wearing apparel, among which was
his uniform. I helped him and what I smell a loophole, but I was
surprised not to see Marcial anywhere. Not long, however, to explain
his absence, since D. Alonso once managed his brief baggage,
he was very impatient, until at last the sailor appeared saying: "There's
the car. Let's go before it comes. "Load suitcase, a hat and Don Alonso,
Marcial and I went through the gate of the corral to not be seen, we
climbed it, and departed this so as to escape the squalor of the hack
allowed the drag, and the configuration of the road Procel. This, if
chivalry was bad, wicked car, but despite the tombs and archways,
tight passage, and until we lost sight of the people, not eased
somewhat in the martyrdom of our bodies.

That trip me extremely fond of, because the boys were upset any new
trial.

Marcial was no joy in it, and I love that first joy was almost less serious
than I was quite saddened when he left to see the people.

From time to time saying, "And she so foreign to this! How to tell when
I get home and not find us! I will broaden my breast with the sight
of the landscape, with the joy and freshness of the morning, and
especially with the idea of early Cadiz Bay and its incomparable populated
buildings, its streets bustling and cheerful, his Caleta, which
symbolized for me the most beautiful time of life, liberty, and
its square, the wharf and other places very dear to me.

We had not gone three miles when we reached to see two knights mounted
on magnificent chestnuts, which came after we were together in
a short time. Point to recognize Malespina and his father, that Mr
tall, very stiff and charlatan, who spoke before. Both were amazed to
see D. Alonso, and more when he told them he was going to Cadiz to
embark. He received the news with sorrow the son, but the father, who,
as then understood, was a swashbuckling topped congratulated my master
very campanudamente, calling sailors flower, mirror of the sea and
honor of the motherland. We stopped for lunch the Parador de Conil.
For the gentlemen who had given it, and Martial and me over
so that was not much. I served as the table, I could hear the conversation,
and knew better then the old Malespina, if I first went to my eyes
like a liar full of vanity, then I found the funniest windbag I've
heard in my life. my future father-in-law Amit, D.

José María Malespina who had no kinship with the famous sea of the same
name, was retired colonel of artillery, and stood her pride in knowing
that fund and manage it as a terrible weapon anyone. Dealing with this
matter was looked more like his great imagination and desparpajo to
lie. "The gunners - said suspend for a moment without action gulp -
make much needed on board. What is a ship without artillery? But here
you can see the effects of this wonderful invention of human intelligence
is on the ground, Mr. D. Alonso. When the war of Roussillon ... you
know I took part in that campaign and all the wins were due to my
success in managing the Artillery ... The battle of Masdeu, why do you
think won? General Ricardo I stood on a hill with four pieces,
sending fire but did not when I ordered it. But I, who saw things
differently, I was until a column callandito French wine to be placed
before me in such a provision, that my shots were rowed from one extreme
to another. The French formed the line with great perfection. I took
good aim with the piece of directing targeted at the head of the
first soldier ... Do you understand? ... As the line was so
perfect, shot, and you zas!, The bullet took one hundred and forty-two
heads, and did not fall over because the end of the line moved a
little. That produced great consternation in the enemy, but as they did
not understand my strategy and could not see me at the site was sent
to another column attacking troops were to my right, and that
column was the same fate, and another and another until the battle
is won. - It is wonderful - said my master, who, knowing the magnitude
of the ball, he refused, however, belie his friend. - For the second
campaign under the command of Count of the Union, also scar the
beauty of the Republicans.

Defending Boulou, we went well, because we ended up ammunition: I
did everything with great destruction loading a piece with the keys
of the church, but they were great, and finally, as a remedy of
desperation , got into the barrel bore my keys, my watch, my money,
how many trinkets found in pockets, and, finally, to my crosses.

What is that particular one of these was to be printed on the chest of
a French general, where he remained stuck and not hurt. He kept it,
and when he went to Paris, the Convention does not know if sentenced
to death or exile for having accepted a government decorations enemy.
- What a monkey! - Muttered enjoying my master so chuscas inventions.
- When I was in England ...-- continued Malespina old - because you
know that the English Government sent me to perfect the Artillery call
from that country ... Every day he ate with Pitt, with Burke, with
Lord North, with the general and other VIPs Conwallis I called _The
español_ funny. I remember once being at the palace, begged me
to show them how it was one, and I had to ride, sting and kill a chair,
which a lot of fun the whole Court, especially when King George III, who
was well and my buddies always told me that sends you to find my
ground olives good. Oh, I had much confidence with me. Every effort
was to teach Spanish words and some of it on our funny Andalusia, but
was never able to learn more _otro toro_ and _vengan these cinco_ sentence
that greeted me every day when he went to lunch with him and whiting
Some Cañitas Jerez. - It was what he liked most. I did bring
bottled snake Cadiz: conservábase well with a specific invention,
whose recipe I have at home. - Wonderful. And you reformed
Artillery English - asked my master, encouraging them to follow, because
he had fun .-- Completamente. They invented a cannon that never fired,
because London, including the Court and the Cabinet, came to beg not
to do the test for fear of it falling to the ground shaking many homes.
- So you have such a large part been relegated to oblivion? - Did you
buy the Emperor of Russia, but it was not possible to move the site
where it was. - But could you get us out of trouble by inventing
a cannon shot to destroy one of the English squad. - Oh - answered
Malespina --. I'm thinking about that, and I think I can do my
thinking.

Now I'll show you the calculations that you have made not only to
increase to a fabulous end the caliber of the guns, but to build
resistance plates to defend ships and castles. It is the thought of my
entire life. "All they had completed feeding. We were eating in a snap
and I Marcial leftovers, and we continue the journey, riding them,
marching to the steps, as before, and we, in our derrengada buggy.
Frequent food and drinks with the dew still excited over the vein
of old Malespina inventor, who continued all the way espetos their big
paparruchas. The conversation turned to the subject where it had
started a war of Roussillon, and D. Joseph rush to refer new
feats, my love, and tired of lying so much, he wanted to deviate from
that area, and said: "War and impolítica disastrous. The more we
would have not been taken! - Oh - Malespina exclaimed -. El Conde
de Aranda, as you know, condemned from the start this disastrous war
with the Republic. How much we talked about this issue! ...
because we are friends since childhood. When I was in Aragon, spent
seven months together in the hunt Moncayo. I just build for him a
singular shotgun ... - Yes: Aranda always opposed - said my master,
in addressing the dangerous road of the ballistics. - In effect -
continued liar - and if that man eminent defended so hot peace
with the Republicans, because I was advised, before convincing the
untimeliness of the war.

More Godoy that was valid and then, stubbornly continue on, just to
take the contrary, as I understood later. The most amusing is that the
same Godoy was forced to conclude the war in the summer of 95, when
understood to be ineffective, and then awarded himself the title of
roaring _Príncipe of Paz_. - What we are lacking, friend D. José María
- said my master - a good man to match the circumstances, a man who is
not entering into unnecessary wars and keep intact the dignity of the
Crown! - Well when I was in Madrid on last year - continued the liar
- I made proposals to carry out the Secretary of State. The Queen was
very hard on it, and the King said nothing ... Every day he came to
Brown to pull a couple of shots ... So it was up Godoy, knowing my
superiority, and if not, I would have failed to enclose a castle
where I would not do that. But I refused, preferring to live in peace
in my village, and stopped public affairs in the hands of Godoy. Here
you have a man whose father was a mule boy in the meadow that my
stepfather was in Extremadura. - I did not know ...-- said D.

Alonso -. Although dark man, I thought that the Prince of Peace belongs
to a family of nobles, small fortune, but of good principles. "Thus
continued the dialogue, Mr. Malespina dropping balls like temples, and
I love hearing with santa calm, sometimes looking angry and pleased to
hear so much nonsense. If I remember correctly, also said D. Jose
Maria Napoleon had advised that the daring act of the 18 Brumaire.
With these and other things we anocheció Chiclana, and my master, and
atrociously broken ground because of the movement fementido calesín,
stayed in the village, while others continued Wishing to reach Cadiz
on the same night. While dinner, foist Malespina new lies, and
I could see that his son heard the penalty, as ashamed to be the
biggest liar father who raised the land. Despidiéronse them, we rested
until the following day at daybreak, when it we continue our journey,
and as it was much more convenient and expedient to Cadiz Chiclana
since that trip in the stretch, we arrived at the end of our trip
at about eleven of the day without news on the health and soul happy.
VIII - - I can not describe the enthusiasm aroused in my soul back a.
As I have a bit of freedom, after my master was installed at the home
of his cousin, got out and ran into the streets without a fixed address
for them, intoxicated with the atmosphere of my beloved city. After
such a long absence, the I had seen so often enthralled my attention
as something new and extremely beautiful. How many people saw the passage
was a friendly face, and everything was nice and sunny for me: men,
women, elderly, children, dogs, even the houses, as noted in my youthful
imagination that does not know what to personal and lively, I was
represented as sentient beings, involving the general parecíame happy
for my arrival, mimic their balconies and windows factions in a
jubilant face. My spirit was reflected in everything outside their
own happiness.

Ran through the streets with great anxiety, as if in a minute I would
see them all. In the Plaza de San Juan de Dios I bought some candy,
rather than the pleasure of eating, the satisfaction of the sellers
appear to regenerate, to whom I spoke as a former friend, recognizing
friendly as some earlier in my misery, and other as victims, not appeased,
my innocent love of loitering. Most are not remembered me, but I
received some injuries, recalling the exploits of my childhood and
so chistosos commenting on my new pack and the severity of my person,
I had to leave in a hurry, do not hurt me without decorum some
fruit peels by expert hand-delivered my new clothes. As I was aware of
formality, these jokes rather pride that caused me grief. Traveled the
wall and then counted all the boats moored in sight. I talked to many
sailors found the passage, saying that I was going to the squadron,
and to inquire whether there was a very emphatic landfall Squad Nelson.
After I said _Mr. Corneta_ was a coward, and that the next role
would be good. Get to La Caleta, where my joy had no bounds. I went
down to it, and remove your shoes, I jumped from rock to rock, I looked
for my old friends of both sexes, but did not find but very few, some
were men and had already embraced best race, while others had been
loaded by the cam, and which were hardly recognized me. The movable
surface of the water woke voluptuous sensations in my chest. Unable to
resist temptation, and compelled by the mysterious attraction of the
sea, whose eloquent rumor always has seemed to me, I do not know why,
a sweet voice calling in the bonanza, with urgent calls or anger
in the storm, I was naked at all hurry and I launched it as one who
throws in the arms of a loved one. Nadé more than an hour, experiencing
an indescribable pleasure, dress and then continued my walk toward
the neighborhood of the Vineyard, where I found some uplifting taverns
the most famous lost my glorious time. Talking with them, I missed the
man pro, and as such spent in giving away few rooms that I had. Ask
my uncle, but I was not any news of his lordship; hubimos and then
chatted a bit, made me drink a glass of brandy to the point that my
poor body had come ashore. During my strongest drink - I think those
tunantes laughed when they gave me the win, but once they calm me a
bit, I left the tavern avergonzadísimo. Although he was very hard, I go
through my old house and saw the door to a woman who tattered blood
and guts frei. Moved in front of my home birth, I could not contain
tears, which, as seen by the woman with guts, he figured mockery or ploy
to steal your fries. I, therefore, that out of his hands with the
lightness of my feet, leaving more time for the relief of my feelings.
I wanted to do after the old cathedral, which was one of the most tender
memories of my childhood, and I came into it: I found your lovely
site and I never walk the halls with any temple as religious
veneration.

I think I was strong desire to pray, and I did indeed, kneel on the
altar where my mother had a vote for my ex-salvation. The character
of wax that I thought was my perfect portrait hung there, and occupied
his post with the severity of the holy things, but I felt like an egg
to a chestnut. That doll, which symbolized piety and maternal love, I
breathed, however, respect livelier. I prayed on his knees for a while
remembering the suffering and death of my good mother, who had God
in heaven, but as my head was not good, because of the fumes of cursed
spirits, to get up I fell, and a sexton hard prettily put me on the
street. I moved in a few strides to FIDE, where he lived, and my love,
come to see me, rebuked me for my long absence. If you lack that
has been committed to Dona Francisca, I would have escaped a severe
beating, but my master was tolerant, and I never punished, perhaps because
he was aware of being so child like me. We had gone to reside at
the home of premium master, which was a lady, whom the reader will
allow me to describe in some length, because that type deserves it. Mrs.
Flora was an old Cisniega who want to stay young, had more than fifty
years, but put into practice all the tricks that could fool the
world, seeming half of that terrifying figure.

Say how he invented the science and art in harmony consortium to achieve
this object, that company is not limited to my strengths. List the
curls, cute, ties, rags, marinades, vermilion, water and other foreign
bodies that went to great works of his monumental restoration, the
most skilful fatigaría fantasy: keep it, then, for pens of novelists,
if that history, the great seeker of things, not so beautiful
appropriates matter. Regarding their physical, as this is my whole face,
which seemed to have all your brushes Rosicler academies and present
tense. I also remember that when speaking with the lips was a moment
of a retreat, a mime, which was, or bail gracefully the huge mouth,
or hide the ravages of the teeth, with rows of deserted every year a
couple of teeth; supine ploy but that the presumption was so unfortunate
that the earlier afeaba embellished. dressed in luxury, and his
hair was spent per bushel powders, and meat was not bad, judging by
what they preach width neck and left it transparent gauze, every effort
was to show off those parts less sensitive to the offensive action of
time for which an art object was wonderful. Doña Flora was very fascinated
by old things, very devout, though not with pity for my holy Dona
Francisca, and differed greatly from my love, as well as naval glories
hated it, it was enthusiastic for all men of war in general and
especially sailors. Inflamed patriotic love, as in the maturity of its
existence could not aspire to calorcillo of another love, and extremely
proud as a woman and a Spanish lady, the national sentiment was
associated in his mind the boom of cannons, and believed that the
greatness of the people was measured by pounds of gunpowder.
Why does the protestant shut his eyes
when he prays? The idea is a souvenir of sun worship.  It is the most
natural worship in the world. Religious dogmas have become absurd.  The
doctrine of eternal torment today has become absurd, low, groveling,
ignorant, barbaric, savage, devilish and no gentleman would preach it.

Science, thou art the great magician!  Thou alone performest the true
miracles.  Thou alone workest the real wonders.  Fire is thy servant,
lightning thy messenger.  The waves obey thee, and thou knowest the
circuits of the wind.  Thou art the great philanthropist.  Thou hast
freed the slave and civilized the master.  Thou hast taught man to
chain, not his fellow-man, but the forces of nature--forces that have
no backs to be scarred, no limbs for chains to chill and eat--forces
that never know fatigue, that shed no tears--forces that have no hearts
to break. Thou gavest man the plow, the reaper and the loom--thou hast
fed and clothed the world.  Thou art the great physician.  Thy touch
hath given sight.  Thou hast made the lame to leap, the dumb to speak,
and in the pallid cheek thy hand hath set the rose of health.  "Thou
hast given thy beloved sleep"--a sleep that wraps in happy dreams the
throbbing nerves of pain.  Thou art the perpetual providence of
man--preserver of life and love.  Thou art the teacher of every virtue,
and the enemy of every vice. Thou has discovered the true basis of
morals--the origin and office of conscience--and hast revealed the
nature and measure of obligation.  Thou hast taught that love is
justice in its highest form, and that even self-love, guided by wisdom,
embraces with loving arms the human race.  Thou hast slain the monsters
of the past. Thou hast discovered the one inspired book.  Thou hast
read the records of the rocks, written by wind and wave, by frost and
flame--records that even priestcraft cannot change--and in thy wondrous
scales thou hast weighed the atoms and the stars.  Thou art the founder
of the only true religion.  Thou art the very Christ, the only savior
of mankind!

Theology has always been in the way of the advance of the human race.
There is this difference between science and theology--science is
modest and merciful, while theology is arrogant and cruel.  The hope of
science is the perfection of the human race. The hope of theology is
the salvation of a few and the damnation of almost everybody.  As I
told you in the first place, I believe in the religion of freedom.  O
liberty! thou art the god of my idolatry.  Thou art the only deity that
hates the bended knee. In thy vast and unwalled temple, beneath the
roofless dome, star-gemmed and luminous with suns, thy worshipers stand
erect.  They do not bow or cringe or crawl or bend their foreheads to
the earth.  Thy dust hast never borne the impress of lips, upon thy
sacred altars mothers do not sacrifice their babes, nor men their
rights.  Thou askest naught from man except the things that good men
hate, the whip, the chain, the dungeon key.  Thou hast no kings, no
popes, no priests to stand between their fellow-men and thee.  Thou
hast no monks, no nuns, who, in the name of duty, murder joy.  Thou
carest not for forms nor mumbled prayers.  At thy sacred shrine
hypocrisy does not bow, fear does not crouch, virtue does not tremble,
superstition's feeble tapers do not burn, but reason holds aloft her
inextinguishable torch, while on the ever-broadening brow of science
falls the ever coming morning of the ever better day.


Ingersoll on The Chinese God


Messrs. Wright, Dickey, O'Conner and Murch, of the select committee on
the causes of the present depression of labor, presented the majority
special report upon Chinese immigration.

These gentlemen are in great fear for the future of our most holy and
perfectly authenticated religion, and have, like faithful watchmen from
the walls and towers of Zion, hastened to give the alarm.  They have
informed Congress that "Joss has his temple of worship in the Chinese
quarters, in San Francisco.  Within the walls of a dilapidated
structure is exposed to the view of the faithful the god of the
Chinaman, and here are his altars of worship.  Here he tears up his
pieces of paper; here he offers up his prayers; here he receives his
religious consolations, and here is his road to the celestial land."
That "Joss is located in a long, narrow room, in a building in a back
alley, upon a kind of altar;" that "he is a wooden image, looking as
much like an alligator as like a human being;"  that the Chinese "think
there is such a place as heaven;" that "all classes of Chinamen worship
idols;"  that "the temple is open every day at all hours;"  that "the
Chinese have no Sunday;"  that this heathen god has "huge jaws, a big
red tongue, large white teeth, a half-dozen arms, and big, fiery
eyeballs.  About him are placed offerings of meat, and other
eatables--a sacrificial offering."

No wonder that these members of the committee were shocked at such a
god, knowing as they did that the only true God was correctly described
by the inspired lunatic of Patmos in the following words:

"And there sat in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks one like
unto the son of man, clothed with a garment down to the foot, and girt
about the paps with a golden girdle.  His head and his hairs were white
like wool, as white as snow; and his eyes were as a flame of fire; and
his feet like unto fine brass as if they burned in a furnace; and his
voice as the sound of many waters.  And he had in his right hand seven
stars; and out of his mouth went a sharp, two-edged sword; and his
countenance was as the sun shining in his strength."

Certainly, a large mouth, filled with white teeth, is preferable to one
used as the scabbard of a sharp, two-edged sword.  Why should these
gentlemen object to a god with big fiery eyeballs, when their own Deity
has eyes like a flame of fire?

Is it not a little late in the day to object to people because they
sacrifice meat and other eatables to their god?  We all know that for
thousands of years the "real" God was exceedingly fond of roasted meat;
that He loved the savor of burning flesh, and delighted in the perfume
of fresh, warm blood.

The following account of the manner in which the "living God" desired
that His people should sacrifice tends to show the degradation and
religious blindness of the Chinese--:

"Aaron therefore went unto the altar and slew the calf of the
sin-offering which was for himself.  And the sons of Aaron brought the
blood unto him.  And he dipped his fingers in the blood and put it upon
the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the bottom of the
altar; but the fat and the kidneys and the caul above the liver of the
sin-offering he burnt upon the altar, as the Lord commanded Moses, and
the flesh and the hide he burnt with fire without the camp.  And he
slew the burnt offering.  And Aaron's sons presented unto him the blood
which he sprinkled round about the altar....  And he brought the meat
offering and took a handful thereof and burnt upon the altar..... He
slew also the bullock and the ram for a sacrifice of peace offering,
which was for the people.  Who is Todt? Speech, man gentleman. Your
wife Mylord, your wife, and her sister has been poisoned by it, she
admits it. Edmund. Beyden I had promised, soon we all three come
together. Edgar. Here comes Kent. ( Kent occurs.) Albania. Bring the
corpses herbey, Todt or alive. (Gonerills Regan and corpses on the
stage.) The court of heaven makes us tremble, without to excite our
pity - (by Kent view) O! He ists!

Forgiving, Mylord. The circumstances worinn we are not allow to observe
the courtesy to think. Kent. I have come, my King and Lord, the
last Farewell to say. Is he not here? Albania. We have forgotten the
most important thing. Speak, Edmund, where's the king? Where's Cordelia?
Do you see this spectacle, Kent? Kent. Heaven! what is this? Edmund. So
Edmund was loved, The one the other poisoned for my sake, and then
killed himself Albania.

So it is; verhüllet their faces. Edmund. I grab for life to troz my own
nature, something good thun. Sends rushed into the castle, I have
a command against the life of Lear and Cordelias issued; schiket, anyway
it is too late. Albania.

Rennet, Rennet, O! Rennet - Edgar. To whom, Mylord? Who has the oversight
in the castle? Schiker him a feature, which he will recognize your
amended kan. Edmund. You've probably thought of here, take my sword,
gieb him the captain - Edgar. Hurry, so you love your life. (The messenger
goes anyway.) Edmund . He had from your wife and my command,
Cordelia hang in prisons, and the guilt of their own despair beyzumessen.
Albania. The gods beschüzen it!

- Traget him, however, remain. (Edmund will continue to take.) Tenth
appearance. (Lear enters to Todt Cordelia in his arms-bearing.) Lear.
howl, howl, howl, howl - O! People from her Seyde stone; hätt I your
tongues and eyes, I wanted to do it so that the sky vault should crack:
it is forever there. I see myself as to whether a Todt, or whether one
lives, it is Todt as Earth. Lend me a mirror, if you Athem turbid makes
the glass, then I will say she lives. Kent. Is this the outcome
hoped? Lear. This suggests that spring, she lives, if it is, it is a
change that paid all the grief that I've ever felt.
We all know that the disciples of Jesus do unto others as they would
that others should do unto them, and that those of Confucius do not
unto others anything that they would not that others should do unto
them. Surely, such peoples ought to live together in perfect peace.
Rising with the subject, growing heated with a kind of holy
indignation, these Christian representatives of a Christian people most
solemnly declare that anyone who is really endowed with a correct
knowledge of our religious system which acknowledges the existence of a
living God and an accountability to Him, and a future state of reward
and punishment, who feels that he has an apology for this abominable
pagan worship, is not a fit person to be ranked as a good citizen of
the American union.  It is absurd to make any apology for its
toleration.  It must be abolished, and the sooner the decree goes forth
by the power of this government, the better it will be for the
interests of this land.

I take this the earliest opportunity to inform these gentlemen
composing a majority of the committee that we have in the United States
no "religious system;"  that this is a secular government. That it has
no religious creed; that it does not believe nor disbelieve in a future
state of reward and punishment; that it neither affirms nor denies the
existence of a "living God;"  and that the only god, so far as this
government is concerned; is the legally expressed will of a majority of
the people.  Under our flag the Chinese have the same right to worship
a wooden god that you have to worship any other.  The constitution
protects equally the church of Jehovah and the house of Joss.  Whatever
their relative positions may be in heaven, they stand upon a perfect
equality in the United States.  This government is an infidel
government.  We have a constitution with man put in and God left out;
and it is the glory of this country that we have such a constitution.

It may be surprising to you that I have an apology for pagan worship,
yet I have.  And it is the same one that I have for the writers of this
report.  I account for both by the word superstition.  Why should we
object to their worshiping God as they please?  If the worship is
improper, the protestation should come not from a committee of
congress, but from God himself.  If He is satisfied, that is sufficient.

Our religion can only be brought into contempt by the actions of those
who profess to be governed by its teachings.  This report will do more
in that direction than millions of Chinese could do by burning pieces
of paper before a wooden image.  If you wish to impress the Chinese
with the value of your religion, of what you are pleased to call "the
American system," show them that Christians are better than heathens.
Prove to them that what you are pleased to call the "living God"
teaches higher and holier things, a grander and purer code of morals,
than can be found upon pagan pages.  Excel these wretches in industry,
in honesty, in reverence for parents, in cleanliness, in frugality, and
above all by advocating the absolute liberty of human thought.

Do not trample upon these people because they have different conception
of things about which even this committee knows nothing.

Give them the same privilege you enjoy of making a god after their own
fashion, and let them describe him as they will.  Would you be willing
to have them remain, if one of their race, thousands of years ago, had
pretended to have seen God, and had written of Him as follows:  "There
went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his mouth; coals
were kindled by it.... and he rode upon a cherub and did fly?"  Why
should you object to these people on account of their religion?  Your
objection has in it the spirit of hate and intolerance.  Of that spirit
the inquisition was born.  That spirit lighted the fagot, made the
thumbscrew, put chains upon the limbs, and lashes upon the backs of
men. The same spirit bought and sold, captured and kidnapped human
beings; sold babes, and justified all the horrors of slavery.  Congress
has nothing to do with the religion of the people.  Its members are not
responsible to God for the opinions of their constituents, and it may
tend to the happiness of the constituents for me to state that they are
in no way responsible for the religion of the members.  Religion is an
individual not a national matter, and where the nation interferes with
the right of conscience, the liberties of the people are devoured by
the monster, superstition.

If you wish to drive out the Chinese, do not make a pretext of
religion. Do not pretend that you are trying to do God a favor.
Injustice in His name is doubly detestable.  The assassin cannot
sanctify his dagger by falling on his knees, and it does not help a
falsehood if it be uttered as a prayer.  Religion, used to intensify
the hatred of men toward men, under the pretense of pleasing God, has
cursed this world.

A portion of this most remarkable report is Intensely religious. There
is in it almost the odor of sanctity; and when reading it, one is
impressed with the living piety of its authors.  But on the
twenty-fifth page, there are a few passages that must pain the hearts
of true believers.  Leaving their religious views, the members
immediately betake themselves to philosophy and prediction.  Listen:

"The Chinese race and the American citizen, whether native-born or who
is eligible to our naturalization laws and becomes a citizen, are in a
state of antagonism.  They cannot, nor will not, ever meet upon common
ground and occupy together the same so-called level.  This is
impossible.  The pagan and the Christian travel different paths.  - Ah,
if you knew - if they knew how overflowing as unpronounceable as I
understand it beleidiget been and still are - you could, you would
create your own insult about it .-- Have you forgotten me? I'm Orsina
who cheated, abandoned Orsina .-- Although perhaps only to leave your
daughter .-- But what can get your daughter? - Soon they will
also leave his .-- And then again - And again - Ha! (as in the delight)
what a heavenly fantasy! When once we all - we, the whole army of
abandoned - we are all in Bacchae, transforms into furies, when
we all of us it would have torn him among us, mangled, his entrails
durchwuehlten - to the heart to find the traitor of each and none
were promised!

Ha! this should be a dance! this should be! Eighth appearance Claudia
Galotti. The former. Claudia (the Hereintreten is umsiehet and once
they saw her husband on his zuflieget). Guess! - Ah, our protector,
our savior! Are you there, Odoardo? Are you there?

- From their whispering from their faces I closed it .-- What shall I
tell you if you do not know - what should I say, if you already know
everything - but we are innocent. I am innocent. Your daughter is
innocent. Innocent, in all innocence! Odoardo (in the Behold his wife
to be searched). Well, good. Be just quiet, just quiet - and answer
me. (Against the Orsina.) Non, Madame, as if I have doubts - Is the
Count dead? Claudia. Tot. Odoardo. Is it true that this morning the
prince Emilien in Messestadt spoken? Claudia. True. But if you
knew what horror it caused consternation in which they came home-Orsina.
Well, I lied? Odoardo (with a bitter laugh).

I want to 'do not you have! By how much is not! Orsina. Am I crazy?
Odoardo (wildly back and forth mostly). Oh - I'm still not. - Claudia.
You need me to be quiet, and I'm quietly .-- The best man, I must
also - and I ask you - Odoardo. What do you want? Am I not calm? Can you
be quiet, as I am? (It is mandatory.) Emilia Weiss is that Appiani dead?
Claudia. Knowledge it can not. But I fear that it argwohnet because he
did not erscheinet .-- Odoardo. And they wailed and winselt .--
Claudia. No longer .-- That is over: by its nature, you know.
She is fearful and the most willing of our sex. Your first impressions
never powerful, but after the slightest consideration in finding
everything on anything. You keep the prince at a distance, she
speaks with him in a tone - Make only Odoardo that we get away. Odoardo.
I am on horseback .-- What to do? - Yes, Madame, you drive so after
the city back? Orsina. Not otherwise. Odoardo. Would you have probably
weighed in with my wife to take? Orsina. Why not? Very happy. Odoardo.
Claudia - (you know making the Countess) Countess Orsina, a lady of
great minds, my friend, my Wohltaeterin .-- You have to come with her
to give us immediately the car herauszuschicken. Emilia can not
back Guastalla.

It is with me. Claudia. But - if only - I am reluctant to separate from
the child. Odoardo. If the father is not in the vicinity? We will take
it but finally vorlassen. No objection! - Come, my lady.

(Quietly to her.) You will hear from me .-- Come, Claudia. (He leads
them.) Fifth lift The scene remains.

First appearance Marinelli. The Prince. Marinelli. Here, gracious Lord,
from this window you can see it.

He goes to the arcade and down .-- Just turn it to his ways; the
point .-- No, he returns to .-- Quite agree he has not yet.

But a Big, he is quiet - or it seems. For us a lot - of course! This
allows him to both women in the head set, he will dare to speak? - How
Battista belongs, is his wife the car out immediately end.

For he came on horseback. - Be careful if he is in front of you
erscheinet, it is quite untertaenigst Your Highness for the merciful
protection thanks to his family at this very sad accident here,
will, together with its subsidiaries, to distant recommend mercy,
it will be quiet after the city and bring it into subjection deepest
expect what further share your Highness at his unfortunate love
girls want to condescend.

The Prince. If he is so tame now, but is not? And hard, hard is it
to be.

I know him too well .-- If he maximum stifled his suspicions, his anger
verbeisst: Emilien but instead to the city to lead, with notes? reserves
to himself? or probably even in a monastery, except my areas closes?
What then? Marinelli. The looks much afraid of love. Verily! - But he
will not - The Prince. If he is now! What then? What will it help us
then that the unfortunate Earl lost his life about it? Marinelli. Why
this sad page view? Forward! thinks the winner, it falls apart
it enemy or friend .-- And though! If he wanted it, the old Neidhart,
what you are afraid of him, Prince. - (Ueberlegend.) It works! I've
got it! - Continue to Do as it certainly should not bring.

Certainly not - but that we do not lose the history .-- (kick back
to the window.) Soon hätt 'He surprised us! He ways; the point .--
Let him escape, and you only hear, Prince, what we do in the case to
fear to do. The Prince (threateningly).

But Marinelli - Marinelli. The innocence of the world! Second appearance
Odoardo Galotti. Nobody here? - Well, I should be even colder. It is
my luck .-- Nothing contemptuous than a buzzing of Juenglingskopf with
gray hair! I have often told me so. And yet let me fortreissen: and
by whom? From a jealous, by an insane jealousy for .-- What has hurt
the virtue of vengeance in the truck to create? That alone, I have to
save. - And your thing - my son! my son! - wines could I ever - and
it will now not only learn - Your case is quite different to his
making! Enough for me, if the fruit of thy murderer of his crime not
enjoy .-- This torment him more than the crime, if it will soon be
saturated and disgust of Luster Luster to drive, then denature the
reminder, this is not a pleasure to have gebuesset, him the benefit
of all!

In every dream leader of the bloody bridegroom to the bride in front of
the bed, and when he nevertheless voluptuous ausstreckt after her
arm, so he suddenly heard the Hohngelaechter hell and wake up! Third
appearance Marinelli.

Odoardo Galotti. Marinelli. Where were you, sir? where were you?
Odoardo.

Was my daughter here? Marinelli. Not them, but the prince. Odoardo.
He forgive .-- I accompanied the Countess. Marinelli. Now? Odoardo. The
good lady! Marinelli. And your wife? Odoardo. Is the countess - to
give us the car immediately herauszusenden. The Prince vergoenne just
that I so long with my daughter still linger here. Marinelli. What
these circumstances? Would the prince is not a pleasure to have made
them both, mother and daughter, even after the city to bring? Odoardo.
The daughter would at least have the honor of Make have. Marinelli.
Why? Odoardo. It will no longer be Guastalla. Marinelli. Not? and why
not? Odoardo. The Count is dead Marinelli. To so much more - Odoardo.
It is with me.

Marinelli. With you? Odoardo. With me. I tell you yes, the Count is
dead - if you do not know - What has it now in Guastalla to do - you
will be with me. Marinelli. However, the future residence of the
only daughter of the will of his father dependent. Just before the
first - Odoardo. As before the first one? Marinelli. You will
probably have to allow the Supreme Lord that it is brought Guastalla.
Odoardo. My daughter? Guastalla is brought under? and why? Marinelli.
Why? Consider just - Odoardo (heated).

Consider! Consider! I consider that nothing is to be considered .-- It
is, she must with me. Marinelli. O my Lord - what we need to inform
ereifern? It may be that I am wrong, that it is not necessary is
what I need for .-- The prince, it is best to judge know. The Prince
.-- I decide to go and fetch him. Fourth appearance Odoardo Galotti.
How? - Never! - I require, where they will be out? - I deny it?
- Who wants it? Who has it? - The everything here must, what he wants?
Good, good, let him see how much I can if I have it seems not!
Short-sighted Todbringer! With you I will probably start. Anyone who
respects no law, is as powerful than he who has no law. That
you do not know? Come on! Come on! - But, look out! Again, again
Rennet of anger with the understanding of it .-- What do I want?

First, 'it happened, what I'm tobe. What is not a chat Hofschranze! And
I would have him but can talk only! If I had his excuse as to why they
should back Guastalla, but only listened! - How could I itzt for
an answer lie in wait .-- Although what may be missing me? - Should
they miss me but, it should be - One-ways; the point. Quiet, old boy,
quiet! The Prince Fifth appearance. Marinelli. Odoardo Galotti. The
Prince. Ah, my dear, quite Schaffner Galotti - so something
must be done if you contact me, I see.

To do less is not. But no complaints! Odoardo. Gracious Lord, I think
it is in all cases for improper to comment on his Fuersten to push.
Whom he knows that he will fodern, if he is needed. Even itzt I ask for
forgiveness - The Prince.

Like many others I wanted to wish this proud humility! - But to the
point. They are eager to use your daughter to see. She is in turmoil
because of the new sudden removal of such a tender mother .-- Why
this distance?

I waited only that the kindness Emilie is totally erholet would
have to include both the triumphs to the city. You gave me this triumph
by a half away, but all I will not let him. Odoardo. Too much
mercy! - Allow, prince, that my unhappy child all the varied insults
spare, the friend and enemy, pity and gloating in Guastalla for
you. The Prince. To sweet friend and the slights of compassion, cruelty,
it would be to bring them.

But the insults of the enemy and gloating they do not reach
to get, rather Galotti, let me take care. Odoardo. Prinz, paternal
love teilet their concerns do not like. - I think I know what my
daughter in their unique circumstances Itzig ziemet - distance from
the world - a monastery - as soon as possible.

The Prince. A monastery? Odoardo. Until then, they cry under the watchful
eye of her father. The Prince. So much beauty to be in a monastery
verbluehen? - Can one hope failed us against the world so unforgiving
it?

- But, however the father has no einzureden. Bring your daughter,
Galotti, wherever you want. Odoardo (for Marinelli). Well, sir? Marinelli.
If I even auffodern! Odoardo. O surely, surely. The Prince. What have
you both? Odoardo. Nothing, gracious Lord, nothing .-- We consider just
what we are in you has geirret. The Prince. Why? - Talk, Marinelli.
Marinelli. It's close to me, at the mercy of my Fuersten in the way
to replace them. But if the friendship requires, above all, in him
the judge aufzufodern - The Prince.

What is friendship? - Marinelli. You know, gracious Lord, how much I loved
the Count Appiani how much both our souls seemed interwoven into each
other - Odoardo. You know, Prince? So you know it truly alone. Marinelli.
By himself on his avenger bestellet - Odoardo. You? Marinelli. Ask
your wife. Marinelli, Marinelli was the name of the last word of
the dying Count, and in a tone! In a tone - that he never heard from,
this awful sound when I do not apply everything that his murderers are
found and punished ! The Prince. Count on my strongest participation.
Odoardo. And my hottest desires! - Well, well! - But what next?
The Prince. The question I Marinelli.

Marinelli. One has to suspect that it was not robbers who attacked the
Count. Odoardo (mockingly). Not? Really not? Marinelli. The fact that
a rival him out of the way spaces allow. Odoardo (bitter). Ei! A rival?
Marinelli. Not otherwise. Odoardo. Now then - God damn him, the boys
meuchelmoerderischen! Marinelli. A rival, and a favored rival -
Odoardo.

What? a beneficiary? - What do you say? Marinelli. Nothing but what
the rumor spread. Odoardo. A beneficiary? my daughter beguenstiget?
Marinelli. This is certainly not. That can not be. The opponent, I,
in spite of you .-- But where all, gracious Lord - because prejudice
wieget set up on the scales of justice as much as nothing - where is
all this is not something we can avoid the schoene unhappy to hear.
The Prince. Yep, however. Marinelli. And where else? where else can
happen than in Guastalla? The Prince. Since you have right, Marinelli,
because you are right it .-- Yes, it changes things, rather Galotti.

Not true? They see themselves - Odoardo. Oh, yes, I see - I see what I
see .-- God! God! The Prince. What is you? what did you do with it?
Odoardo. That I can not foresee what I see. That annoys me, nothing
.-- Well, they should back Guastalla. I want them to bring their
mother and to the strictest examination it acquitted, I will not
even deviate from Guastalla. Because who knows - (with a bitter
laugh) who knows, if the justice will not be necessary for me to
hear.

Marinelli. Very possible! In such cases, doing justice rather than
too little .-- Therefore I am afraid even - The Prince. What?
What you fear? Marinelli. We will before the hand can not verstatten
that mother and daughter will speak. Odoardo. Do not speak?
Marinelli. You will be genoetiget, mother and daughter to be separated.
Odoardo. Mother and daughter to be separated? Marinelli. Mother and
daughter and father. The shape of the interrogation erfodert this
wariness worse though. And I'm sorry, gracious Lord, that I am forced
to see that it expressly anzutragen, Emilien least in a special custody
to bring. Odoardo. Special custody? - Prince! Prince - But yes,
certainly, certainly! Quite right: in a special custody! Not
Prince?

Not - Oh, how finely the justice is! Excellent! (Runs quickly after
the shear sack in which he has the dagger.) The Prince (flattering to
him zutretend).

Hold yourself, dear Galotti - Odoardo (aside by the hand again herauszieht
empty). That said, his angels! The Prince. You are mistaken, you do not
understand him. They think when the words do well in custody and
prison dungeons. Odoardo. Let me remember: I am calm! The Prince.
No word from prison, Marinelli! Here is the rigor of the law with
respect to virtue, integrity is easy to combine. When Emilia in special
custody must be brought, so I already know - the alleranstaendigste.
The chancellor of my house - Do not contradict, Marinelli - Because
I want them to take, because I want them to the supervisor's
assessment of a women's over.

The aim for me to vouch liable .-- go too far, Marinelli, really too
far, if you require more .-- You know they do, Galotti, my Chancellor
Grimaldi and his wife? Odoardo. What should I not? Even the daughters
of this lovable pair edeln kenn ich. Who has not? - (For Marinelli.) No,
my Lord, enter not.

When Emilia custodian must, so to put them in the deepest dungeon
verwahret be. Urge you, I ask you .-- I gate, with my request! I am
old dude! - Yep, it has fairly good Sibylle: "Who on his mind
certain things not verlieret, which does not lose!" The Prince. I
understand you do not .-- Dear Galotti, what can I do more? - Leave
it at that, I ask you .-- Yes, yes, in the house of my Chancellor!
because it is out, because I bring them out, and if it were not
for her with the utmost respect will be met, so my word is not
applied.

But ensure you do not .-- It remains! while it remains - for
yourself Galotti, by itself, can hold it as you wish .-- You can
follow us for Guastalla, you can go back after Sabionetta: as you
want.

It would be ridiculous, you require .-- And now, goodbye, dear Galotti
- Come, Marinelli, there will be late. Odoardo (who stood in deep
thought). How? so should I not speak it, my daughter?

Again, no - I leave everything I liked, I find everything very great.
The house of a chancellor is naturally a free instead of virtue. Oh,
gracious Lord, bring my daughter there, nowhere else than that. - But
talk like "I like it before. The death of the count is still unknown
to her. You can not understand why they received from their parents
trennet. Those on your good way to teach them because of this separation
to calm down - I have to say, gracious Lord, I must speak it. The
Prince. How you doing - Odoardo. Oh, the daughter may well come to the
father .-- Here, under four eyes, I'm finished with it immediately.
Please send me only, gracious Lord.

The Prince. Too! - O Galotti, if you are my friend, my Fuehrer, my father
wanted to be! (The Prince and Marinelli are going to sell.)
Sixth appearance Odoardo Galotti (after seeing him, after a pause).
Why not? - A warm welcome .-- Ha! ha! ha! - (Looking wildly around.)
Who laughs there? - By God, I think I was there himself - quite early!
Funny, funny! The game comes to an end. Either way - but - (pause)
when it is understood? If it everyday would be farce? If it
would not be worth what I will do for them? - (Pause.) For she wants
to do? What do I do it because of? - Have I the heart, say it to me?
- Because that's what I think: So what, what is mind. - Awful! Continue,
continue! I would not expect it. No - (Against the sky.) Who they
are innocent in this abyss, which pull them back out. What he needs
my hand on this? Fort! (He wants to go and see Emilien comment.) Too
late! Ah! he wants my hand, he wants them! Seventh appearance Emilia.
Odoardo. Emilia. How? Here, my father? - And only you - And my
mother? Not here - And the Count?

not here - And you so restless, my father? Odoardo. And you're
so quiet, my daughter? - Emilia. Why not, my father? - Either nothing
is lost or anything.

Quiet and calm can be: ways; the point is not one? Odoardo. But what do
you mean that the case? Emilia. That everything is lost - and that
we probably have to be quiet, my father. Odoardo. And you would be quiet,
because you have to be quiet?

- Who are you? A girl? and my daughter? So, the husband and the father
is probably in front of you ashamed? - But let it hear what you call,
lost everything - the fact that the Count is dead?

Emilia. And why he is dead! Why! Ha, it's true, my father?
He was the victim of his virtues.  Let us be
merciful in our judgments.

All we can say is that the good and the bad, the loving and the
malignant, the conscientious and the vicious, the educated and the
ignorant, actuated by many motives, urged and pushed by circumstances
and conditions sometimes in the calm of judgment, sometimes in
passion's storm and stress, sometimes in whirl and tempest of
insanity--raise their hands against themselves and desperately put out
the light of life.

Those who attempt suicide should not be punished.  If they are insane
they should, if possible be restored to reason; if sane, they should be
reasoned with, calmed and assisted.


Ingersoll's Letter, The Right to One's Life Colonel Ingersoll's
Eloquent Reply to His Critics


In the article written by me about suicide the ground was taken that
"under many circumstances a man has the right to kill himself."

This has been attacked with great fury by clergymen, editors and the
writers of letters.  These people contend that the right of
self-destruction does not and can not exist.  They insist that life is
the gift of God, and that He only has the right to end the days of men;
that it is our duty to beat the sorrows that He sends with grateful
patience.  Some have denounced suicide as the worst of crimes--worse
than the murder of another.

The first question, then, is:

Has a man under any circumstances the right to kill himself?

Often, when they wanted to do my great zeal to rein in, they probably
also stretched the Pfoetchen and gave the spring to what I will always
be questionable and thus made some indents in my later writings have
been printed.This man, suffering agonies beyond the imagination to conceive, is of
no use to himself.  His life is but a succession of pangs. He is of no
use to his wife, his children, his friends or society.  Day after day
he is rendered unconscious by drugs that numb the nerves and put the
brain to sleep.  Has he the right to render himself unconscious?  Is it
proper for him to take refuge in sleep?

Marinelli. You suspect him here? know him here? - He at least is the
Countess Orsina not supposing. Orsina. Not? So he has my letter this
morning did not receive? Marinelli. Your letter? But yes, I remember
that he had a letter you mentioned.

Orsina. Now? I have him not in this letter on today at a meeting here on
Dosalo asked? - It is true, it's not him beliebet me to reply in
writing.

But I learned that he had one hours after Dosalo it really trippy. I
thought that was answer enough, and I come. Marinelli. A strange
coincidence! Orsina. Coincidence? - Yes you heard that it has been
agreed. As good as a guest. From my side of the letter, of its reality
.-- As it stands, the Lord Marquis!

What he does for the eyes! Wonder the brain's? and what then? Marinelli.
They seemed so far away yesterday, the Prince will ever again come to
the eyes. Orsina. Council Bessrer ways; the point over night .--
Where is he? where is he? - What's is that he is in the room where I
Gequieke the Gekreische heard?

- I wanted to come, and the Rogue by servants came before.
Marinelli. My favorite, best Countess - Orsina. It was a female
Gekreische. What applies's, Marinelli? - O tell me, tell me - if
I otherwise your dearest, best Gräfin am - Damn, about the Hofgeschmeiss!
So much words, so much lie! Now, what is due to me if you predict it
or not? I'll probably see it. (Will go.) Marinelli (it holds back).

Where? Orsina. Where I should be a long .-- Do you think that it is
becoming, with you here in a miserable Vorgemache gadgets to keep
the prince, however, in the chamber waiting for me? Marinelli.
You are wrong, gracious lady. The Prince awaits you not. The prince
can not speak here - will not speak.

Orsina. And would it here?

and would but my letter here? Marinelli. Not on your letter - Orsina.
Yes he will receive, you say - Marinelli. Received but not read.
Orsina (violently). Do not read? - (Underage violently.) Do not read? -
(Wistfully and a tear from the eye wiping). Not even read? Marinelli.
For distraction, I know - not from contempt. Orsina (proud). Contempt?
- Who thinks it? - Who do you want to say - You are an insolent
Troester, Marinelli - contempt! Contempt! You despised me too!

me - (it mildly, to the melancholy tone.) Of course he loves me no more.
This is identified. And take the place of love came into his soul a
little differently. That is, of course. But why just contempt? It
needs only to be indifferent. Not true, Marinelli? Marinelli. However,
though. Orsina (mockingly). But - O the wise man, which you can say what
you want! - No matter! Indifferent to the place of love - that is, nothing
takes the place of something.

Because you learn nachplauderndes Hofmaennchen, learn from one woman,
indifferent to an empty word, a mere noise is nothing, nothing is.
Indifferent is the soul only against what they think is not only
against a thing, which for them is not a thing.

And just for a thing indifferent, which is not a thing - this is
not so much as indifferent .-- If you think too much, man? Marinelli
(front). Alas! how true is what I feared! Orsina. What you mumble?
Marinelli.

Lauter admiration! - And who is not known, gracious lady, that you are a
philosopher? Orsina. Not true? - Yes, yes, I am one .-- But I have it
itzt remember that I am? - O shame, where I have to remember it, and
if I have to remember it more often let! Is it still surprising that
the Prince despises me? How can a man love a thing which, in spite of
him, even wants to think? A Women's Room, the thinking is as nauseating
as a man who schminket.

It is laughter, nothing but laugh, forever to the Lord of creation strict
in a good mood to get .-- Well, what I laugh because the same,
Marinelli? - Oh, yes! About the chance!

that I write to the prince that he should come Dosalo; that the
Prince is not my letter and that he lieset but after Dosalo ways;
the point.

Ha! ha! ha! Surely a strange coincidence! Very funny, very foolish! - And
you do not laugh with Marinelli? - Laugh can be the strict Lord of
creation, whether we are poor creatures are not equal may think. -
(Serious and mandatory.) So you can laugh! Marinelli. Gleich, gracious
lady, right! Orsina. Stick! And about it, the moment passed. No, no,
you just do not laugh .-- Because, you see Marinelli, (thinking
to emotion) what makes me laugh so heartily to make that also has
its serious - very serious side.

Like everything in the world! - Coincidence? A random wär 'that the
prince does not think me here to speak, and yet here I speak
to? A coincidence? - Believe me, Marinelli: the random word is
blasphemy.

Nothing under the sun is a coincidence - at least that what the
intent is as clear in the eyes lit .-- Almighty, allguetige
caution, forgive me that I do with this silly sinners have a random
genennet what your work seems so, well do your work is immediate! -
(Hastily against Marinelli.) Come to me and lured me once again to
such a sacrilege! Marinelli (front).

This goes far! - But gracious countess .... Orsina. But with the writers!
But the cost considerations - and my head! my head! (Coinciding with the
hand holding the forehead.) - Take, Marinelli, make sure that I speak
it soon, the prince, otherwise I'm probably not capable .-- You see,
we should talk about us, we must we speak!

Fourth appearance The Prince. Orsina. Marinelli. The Prince (he of
the cabinets shall meet, in front). I have to help him come Orsina
(which sees him, but unentschluessig remains whether they will
admit to it). Ha! because it is. The Prince (go across the hall,
with her passing, after the other rooms, without having to reside
in speeches).

Look here! our beautiful countess .-- As I am very sorry, Madame, that I
have the honor of your visit today, so few take advantage of it!

I'm beschaeftiget. I'm not alone .-- On another, my dear Countess!
Another .-- Itzt hold on longer is not. Yes no longer! - And you,
Marinelli, and I expect you.

Orsina Fifth appearance. Marinelli. Marinelli. Have you, gracious lady,
and now he himself has heard, what you want do not believe me? Orsina
(as stunned).

Did I? I've really? Marinelli. Really. Orsina (with emotion). "I'm
beschaeftiget. I'm not alone." Is that the whole excuse that I'm worth?
Wen development, you do not work?

Every Ueberlaestigen every beggar. For me not a single Lueg more? No
single Lueg little more for me? - Beschaeftiget? what then? Not alone?
who would because with him? - Come, Marinelli, of mercy, rather
Marinelli! Lueger me one on his own account. What does it cost you for
a lie? - What has he to do? Who is he? - Tell me, tell me what you
first into the mouth of ways; the point - and I go. Marinelli (front).
With this condition I can so it probably a part of the truth.
Orsina. Now? Geschwind, Marinelli, and I go .-- He said ohnedem,
the Prince: "On another, my dear Countess!"

Did he not so? - So he keeps me word, that he has no excuse, I do not
keep word: speed, Marinelli, your lies, and I go. Marinelli.

The prince, dear lady, is truly not alone. There are people with him,
of which he is not a moment abmuessigen can, people who have just
escaped a great danger is. The Count Appiani. Orsina. Would be
with him - pity that I am about this lie you must catch. Geschwind
another .-- Count Appiani Because if you do not know, just been
shot by robbers.

The car with its corpses came to me shortly before the city .-- Or
is he not? Had I only dreamed of?

Marinelli. Unfortunately, not just dreaming - but the others who
were with the Count, have happy hieher rescued after the palace: namely
his bride and the mother of the bride, with whom he referred to his
solemn Sabionetta connection wanted to go. Orsina. So the? They are at
the prince? The bride? and the mother of the bride? - Is the bride
beautiful? Marinelli. The prince is extremely close to her accident.
Orsina. I would hope, even if it would be ugly. Because their fate is
terrible arm .-- good girl, just because he is always on you should
be, he is snatched from you for ever! - Who are they, this bride? Kenn
I do? - I'm so long out of the city that I know nothing. Marinelli.
It's Emilia Galotti. Orsina. Who? - Emilia Galotti? Emilia Galotti -
Marinelli! this lie that I do not take for truth!

Marinelli. Why? Orsina. Emilia Galotti? Marinelli. You will hardly
know - Orsina. But! but, if it is only today would .-- Seriously,
Marinelli? Emilia Galotti - Emilia Galotti would be the unfortunate
bride, the prince comforted? Marinelli (front). Should I give her too
much already said? Orsina. And Graf Appiani was the bride and groom
this? the shot just Appiani? Marinelli. Not otherwise. Orsina. Bravo!
o bravo! bravo! (In the hands hitting.) Marinelli. How? Orsina.
Kisses to reside in 'I the devil, who has lured him!

Marinelli. Who? tempts? why? Orsina. Yes, kisses, kisses to reside in 'I
give it - And if you yourself would be this vicious, Marinelli. Marinelli.
Countess! Orsina. Come! Look at me! to stiff! Eye to eye! Marinelli.
Now? Orsina. If you do not know what I think? Marinelli. How can I do
this? Orsina. If you do not share it? Marinelli. Why? Orsina. They
swear! - No, you do not swear. You want to commit a sin more .--
Or yes, you just swear.

A sin more or less for one that is but damn! - If you do not share
it?

Marinelli. You frighten me, Countess. Orsina. True? - Well, Marinelli,
argwohnet your good heart nothing? Marinelli. What? About what?
Orsina. Well - I will trust you with something - something that
every hair on your head to the mountains should balk .-- But here, so
close to the door, someone wants to hear us. Come here! - And! (By
placing the finger on the mouth sets) Hoeren you! very secret! very
secret! (and their Ohre approaching his mouth as if she wanted to
whisper to him what they are very loud but it zuschreiet.) The Prince
is a murderer! Marinelli. Countess - Countess - are you from your
senses? Orsina. From the senses? Ha! ha! ha! (For full mouth smile.) I
am seldom or never to my understanding so well satisfied than just
itzt .-- Reliable, Marinelli - but it remains among us - (softly),
the Prince is a murderer!

Appiani murderer of the Count - the robbers do not have to have helpers
helpers of the Prince, the Prince has killed! Marinelli. How can you
such an abomination in the mouth in the ideas come from?

Orsina. How? - Quite naturally .-- This Emilia Galotti - here it is -
the groom so head on over the neck of the world controls have -
with this Emilia Galotti, the Prince this morning, in the hall with
the Dominicans, one talked long and wide.

I know that my scouts have seen. You have also heard that he talked
with her - Well, good sir? Am I of the senses? I rhymes, daecht 'I,
but still pretty together what belongs together .-- Or take the
only way to be about?

Are you also the chance? Oh, Marinelli, so you understand the wickedness
of mankind is as bad as the caution. Marinelli. Countess, you would be
talking around the neck Orsina. If I said more - the better, the better!
- Tomorrow I will cry out on the market .-- And who contradicts me -
who contradicts me, he was the murderer Spies journeyman. -
Live well. (By they will go away, they met at the door the old Galotti,
the hereintritt hurry.)

Sixth appearance Odoardo Galotti. The Countess. Marinelli. Odoardo
Galotti.

Excuse me, madam - Orsina. I have nothing to forgive. Because I have
nothing uebelzunehmen - At this gentleman please. (Him after Marinelli
way.) Marinelli (erblicket by him, in front of you). Now completely!
Old! - Odoardo. Forgive, my Lord, a father, in the extreme dismay - that
he was so hereintritt unannounced. Orsina. Father? (U again.) The
Emilia, without a doubt .-- Ha, welcome! Odoardo. A servant came
to me entgegengesprengt, with the message that the hierherum
Meinigen would be in danger. I fly up and hear the Count Appiani been
wounded, that he had after the city zurueckgekehret that my wife and
daughter in the castle saved. - Where are they, sir? where are they?
Marinelli. Be quiet, Mr. Supreme. Your wife and your daughter
is not bad to befall the exception Schreck. You are both well. The
prince is with them.

I go immediately, to notify you. Odoardo. Why register? Report only?
Marinelli. From Causes - because of - because of the prince. You
know, Mr. Supreme, as you are with the prince. Not on the fraternal foot.
How gracious he is against your wife and daughter bezeiget - there
are ladies - if a question of your unexpected sight of him situated?

Odoardo. You are right, sir, you are talking about. Marinelli. But,
gracious lady - can I have the honor in advance, for your car to
accompany? Orsina. Not yet, not yet. Marinelli (when the hand
is not moving ungentle). Allow that I watch my duty .-- Orsina. Only
remaining, - which I adopt you, sir!

That is always the same courtesy to your duty to bring what would be
their duty, as an ancillary matter to be allowed to operate - this
worthy man the sooner, the better to report, it is your duty. Marinelli.
Forget what you ordered the prince himself? Orsina. He commands me,
and come again. I expect him. Marinelli (quietly to the Supreme,
which he set aside ziehet). My Lord, I need you here with a lady, who
- the - with the understanding - you understand me. I tell you this
so you know what you are talking to her have to give - which they are
often very strange fuehret.

At best, you can be with her not to speak. Odoardo. Probably right.
- You just hurry, sir. Seventh appearance Orsina The Countess. Odoardo
Galotti.

Orsina (after some silence, under which the Supreme regarded with pity,
as it is with a volatile curiosity). What he also has said since,
unfortunate man! - Odoardo (half to himself, half against it ). Unhappy?
Orsina. A truth, it was certainly not - at least one of those who
await you.

Odoardo. Wait on me - I do not know enough? - Madame - But, you just
talk, talk only. Orsina. You know nothing.

Odoardo. Nothing? Orsina. Good, dear father! - What I would question if
you also would be my father! - Forgive! The unfortunate chain themselves
are so fond of each other .-- I wanted to faithfully pain and
anger with you. Odoardo. Pain and anger? Madame - But I forget - just
speeches. Orsina. If it was her only daughter - your only child
would! - Although only or not.

The unfortunate child is always the only one. Odoardo. The unfortunate -
Madame! - What do I want from her? - But, by God, it speaks not
crazy! Orsina. Crazy? It was, therefore, what they are familiar
to you from me?

- Well, well, it may not easily his worst lie .-- I feel so what! - And
believe you, believe me: If you some things about the verlieret not
mind who does not have to lose .-- Odoardo. What should I think?
Orsina. So that I do not despise! - Because you've got common sense,
good age, you too .-- I see it at this firm, dignified mien. You also
have common sense, and it cost me a word - so you will not.

Odoardo. Madame - Madame - I have seen no more, even before you tell
me this word, if I say it will not soon .-- Say it! Say it! Or it is
not true - it is not true that those of you good, our compassion,
our respect as worthy of the genus are insane - they are a nasty Toerin.
You have no idea what you never had. Orsina. So remember you! - What
do you know that you know enough to know? That Appiani been wounded?
Only wounded - Appiani is dead! Odoardo. Dead? dead? - Ha, woman, this
is against the agreement. They wanted me to bring the mind: and you
break my heart. Orsina. The Beih! - Only further.
If we are the children of an infinitely wise
and powerful God, He knew exactly what we would do--the temptations
that we could and could not withstand--knew exactly the effect that
everything would have upon us, knew under what circumstances we would
take our lives--and produced such circumstances himself.  It is
perfectly apparent that there are many people incapable by nature of
bearing the burdens of life, incapable or preserving their mental poise
in stress and strain of disaster, disease and loss, and who by failure,
by misfortune and want, are driven to despair and insanity, in whose
darkened minds there comes like a flash of lightning in the night, the
thought of death, a thought so strong, so vivid, that all fear is lost,
all ties broken, all duties, all obligations, all hopes forgotten, and
naught remains except a fierce and wild desire to die.  Thousands and
thousands become moody, melancholy, brood upon loss of money, of
position, of friends, until reason abdicates, and frenzy takes
possession of the soul.  If there be an infinitely wise and powerful
God, all this was known to Him from the beginning, and He so created
things, established relations, put in operation causes and effects that
all that has happened was the necessary result of his own acts.

Ninth, nearly all who have tried to answer what I said have been
exceeding careful to misquote me, and then answer something that I
never uttered.  They have declared that I have advised people who were
in trouble, somewhat annoyed, to kill themselves; that I have told men
who have lost their money, who had failed in business, who were not
good in health, to kill themselves at once, without taking into
consideration any duty that they owed to wives, children, friends, or
society.

No man has a right to leave his wife to fight the battle alone if he is
able to help.  No man has a right to desert his children if he can
possibly be of use.  As long as he can add to the comfort of those he
loves, as long as he can stand between wife and misery, between child
and want, as long as he can be of use, it is his duty to remain.

I believe in the cheerful view, in looking at the sunny side of things,
in bearing with fortitude the evils of life, in struggling against
adversity, in finding the fuel of laughter even in disaster, in having
confidence in tomorrow, in finding the pearl of joy among the flints
and shards, and in changing by the alchemy of patience even evil things
to good.  I believe in the gospel of cheerfulness, of courage and
good-nature.

Of the future I have no fear.  My fate is the fate of the world, of all
that live.  My anxieties are about this life, this world. About the
phantoms called gods and their impossible hells, I have no care, no
fear.

The existence of God I neither affirm nor deny.  I wait.  The
immortality of the soul I neither affirm nor deny.  I hope, hope for
all of the children of men.  I have never denied the existence of
another world, nor the immortality of the soul.  For many years I have
said that the idea of immortality, that like a sea has ebbed and flowed
in the human heart, with its countless waves of hope and fear beating
against the shores and rocks of time and fate, was not born of any
book, nor of any creed, nor of any religion.  It was born of human
affection, and it will continue to ebb and flow beneath the mists and
clouds of doubt and darkness as long as love kisses the lips of death.

What I deny is the immortality of pain, the eternity of torture.

After all, the instinct of self-preservation is strong.  People do not
kill themselves on the advice of friends or enemies.  All wish to be
happy, to enjoy life; all wish for food and roof and raiment, for
friends, and as long as life gives joy the idea of self-destruction
never enters the human mind.

The oppressors, the tyrants, those who trample on the rights of others,
the robbers of the poor, those who put wages below the living point,
the ministers who make people insane by preaching the dogma of eternal
pain; these are the men who drive the weak, the suffering and the
helpless down to death.

It will not do to say that "God" has appointed a time for each to die.
Of this there is, and there can be, no evidence.  There is no evidence
that any god takes any interest in the affairs of men--that any sides
with the right or helps the weak, protects the innocent or rescues the
oppressed.  Even the clergy admit that their God, through all ages, has
allowed his friends, his worshipers, to be imprisoned, tortured and
murdered by His enemies.  Such is the protection of God.  Billions of
prayers have been uttered; has one been answered?  Who sends plague,
pestilence and famine?  Who bids the earthquake devour and the volcano
to overwhelm?

Tenth, again I say that it is wonderful to me that so many men, so many
women endure and carry their burdens to the natural end; that so many,
in spite of "age, ache and penury," guard with trembling hands the
spark of life; that prisoners for life toil and suffer to the last;
that the helpless wretches in poor-houses and asylums cling to life;
that the exiles in Siberia, loaded with chains, scarred with the knout,
live on; that the incurables, whose every breath is a pang, and for
whom the future has only pain, should fear the merciful touch and clasp
of death.

It is but a few steps at most from the cradle to the grave; a short
journey.  The arrest of Mr James certainly was attributed to its true
reason, but nobody thought of buying the guise of the olive grove.
Fulminans That if love and above all that as improvised consortium
gave a lot to say, commenting and murmuring.
Let us leave the dead where nature leaves them.  - We saved forty Fallujah
and the six or seven in the boat: they collected the second _San
Hermenegildo_. Deborah Joseph clung to a piece of stick and arrived
more dead than alive to the beaches of Morocco. - Other ... and
there can be many.
.