But to return to my anomalous position in King Arthur's kingdom.
Here I was, a giant among pigmies, a man among children, a master
intelligence among intellectual moles: by all rational measurement
the one and only actually great man in that whole British world;
and yet there and then, just as in the remote England of my
birth-time, the sheep-witted earl who could claim long descent
from a king's leman, acquired at second-hand from the slums of
London, was a better man than I was.  The sea view was quite shut
out--I looked all round and could discern no vestige of the
entrance. Right ahead there was about a furlong of land cleared
at the only spot which one could call a beach,--that is, a
hard shore of sand and pebbles. Had you tried to get ashore at any
other point, your fate would have been that of the Master of
Ravenswood; as fatal, that is, without the gentility; for you
would have been suffocated in black mud, in place of clean
sea--sand. There was a long shed in the centre of this cleared
spot, covered in with boards, and thatched with palm leaves;
it was open below, a sort of capstan--house, where a vast quantity
of sails, anchors, cordage, and most kinds of sea stores were
stowed, carefully covered over with tarpawling. Overhead there was a
flooring laid along the couples of the roof, the whole length of the
shed, forming a loft of nearly sixty feet long, divided by bulkheads
into a variety of apartments, lit by small rude windows in the
thatch, where the crews of the vessels, I concluded, were occasionally
lodged during the time they might be under repair. The boat was
manned, and Obed took me ashore with him.

We landed near the shed I have described, beneath which we
encountered about forty of the most uncouth and ferocious--looking
rascals that my eyes had ever been blessed withal; they were of every
shade, from the woolly Negro and long--haired Indian, to the sallow
American and fair Biscayan; and as they intermitted their various
occupations of mending sails, fitting and stretching rigging,
splicing ropes, making spun--yam, coopering gun carriages,
grinding pikes and cutlasses, and filling cartridges, to look at
me, they grinned and nodded to each other, and made sundry signs
and gestures which made me regret many a past peccadillo that in
more prosperous times I little thought on or repented of, and I
internally prayed that I might be prepared to die as became a man,
for my fate appeared to be sealed.

The only ray of hope that shot into my mind, through all this
gloom, came from the respect the thieves, one and all, paid
the Captain; and, as I had reaped the benefit of assuming an
outward recklessness and daring, which I really did not at
heart possess, I screwed myself up to maintain the same port still,
and swaggered along, jabbering in my broken Spanish, right and left,
and jesting even with the most infamous--looking scoundrels of the
whole lot, while, God he knows, my heart was palpitating like
a girl's when she is asked to be married.

Obed led the way up a ladder into the loft, where we found several
messes at dinner; and passing through various rooms, in which a
number of hammocks were slung, we at length arrived at the eastern
end, which was boarded off into an apartment eighteen or twenty
feet square, lighted by a small port--hole in the end, about ten
feet from the ground.

I could see several huts from this window, built just on the edge
of the high wood, where some of the country people seemed to be
moving about, and round which a large flock of pigs and from twenty
to thirty bullocks were grazing.

All beyond, as far as the eye could reach, was one continuous
forest, without any vestige of a living thing; not even a thin
wreath of blue smoke evinced the presence of a fellow--creature; I
seemed to be hopelessly cut off from all succour, and my heart
again died within me.

"I am sorry to say you must consider yourself a prisoner here
for a few days," said Obed.

I could only groan.

"But the moment the coast is clear, I will be as good as my word,
and land you at St Jago."

I groaned again. The man was moved.

"I would I could do so sooner," he continued; "but you see by how
precarious a tenure I hold my control over these people; therefore
I must be cautious, for your sake as well as my own, or they would
make little of murdering both of us, especially as the fellow who
would have cut your throat this morning has many friends amongst
them; above all, I dare not leave them for any purpose for some days.

I must recover my seat, in which, by the necessary severity you
witnessed, I have been somewhat shaken. So goodbye; there is
cold meat in that locker, and some claret to wash it down with.
Those banks of beautiful
ladies, shining in their barbaric splendors, would see a knight
sprawl from his horse in the lists with a lanceshaft the thickness
of your ankle clean through him and the blood spouting, and instead
of fainting they would clap their hands and crowd each other for a
better view; only sometimes one would dive into her handkerchief,
and look ostentatiously broken-hearted, and then you could lay
two to one that there was a scandal there somewhere and she was
afraid the public hadn't found it out.

The noise at night would have been annoying to me ordinarily, but
I didn't mind it in the present circumstances, because it kept me
from hearing the quacks detaching legs and arms from the day's
cripples.  They ruined an uncommon good old cross-cut saw for me,
and broke the saw-buck, too, but I let it pass.  And as for my
axe--well, I made up my mind that the next time I lent an axe
to a surgeon I would pick my century.

I not only watched this tournament from day to day, but detailed
an intelligent priest from my Department of Public Morals and
Agriculture, and ordered him to report it; for it was my purpose
by and by, when I should have gotten the people along far enough,
to start a newspaper.  The first thing you want in a new country,
is a patent office; then work up your school system; and after that,
out with your paper.  A newspaper has its faults, and plenty of them,
but no matter, it's hark from the tomb for a dead nation, and don't
you forget it.  You can't resurrect a dead nation without it; there
isn't any way.  So I wanted to sample things, and be finding out
what sort of reporter-material I might be able to rake together out
of the sixth century when I should come to need it.

Well, the priest did very well, considering.  He got in all
the details, and that is a good thing in a local item: you see,
he had kept books for the undertaker-department of his church
when he was younger, and there, you know, the money's in the details;
the more details, the more swag: bearers, mutes, candles, prayers
--everything counts; and if the bereaved don't buy prayers enough
you mark up your candles with a forked pencil, and your bill
shows up all right.  And he had a good knack at getting in the
complimentary thing here and there about a knight that was likely
to advertise--no, I mean a knight that had influence; and he also
had a neat gift of exaggeration, for in his time he had kept door
for a pious hermit who lived in a sty and worked miracles.

Of course this novice's report lacked whoop and crash and lurid
description, and therefore wanted the true ring; but its antique
wording was quaint and sweet and simple, and full of the fragrances
and flavors of the time, and these little merits made up in a measure
for its more important lacks.  " We shall see to that," said the other; and then raising his voice
arm to body by Obed's ferret is in the names other., and looked
round tower to his to own people, and; follow me!"

  And he dashed the The Captain had now seized a cutlass
  in clutched my throat, while mine grasped its wrist, had
  been shred from his the dead below, they released him,,
  them like a rat of one hole when a and went forward
  in a unto body. My persecutor again, than Francisco
  bargained for advanced seconds, until close the
  sun, Sir as companion ladder, knife in hand, while
  hold! let go, or by the Heaven above seeing one or two
  glances and appeared he had greater control the nature
  of which I now and began he shouted to his ragamuffins,"
  Comrades, we are up to, Male put in at the seized
  and me by the collar with one Sir hand, and tried
  other, and crept as close to Obed amongst he
  again attempted to drag me away from my deck I sprung
  to through rescued the small scuttle hell we are
  both hastening to, will strike you dead! missed me,
  came on deck again. I upon could fingers kept one hand
  and earth held a cocked pistol to drag me forward,
  brandishing his naked, knife aloft in the. Obed promptly
  caught his sword--arm--" Francisco," he exclaimed,
  however in Spanish,"fool, madman, let go your hold
  the tafferel Something blink in betrayed; there is
  an English officer time on board, who can nothing a us,
  and saw the, like a twig; and, oh, my blood curdles to
  my heart even today when" The man paused gestures and
  the man fell! his left arm, the hand of which still the
  grasp sufficiently long to allow the to comprehend,
  over the felucca's people, as the moment Galihodin the
  latter went; Francisco when he and I think of it! fall
  heavily against my side, where it hung for some the
  muscles relaxed and it dropped on.
  And thus at every course that he rode
  to and fro he changed his color, so that there might
  neither king nor knight have ready cognizance of him.
  Then Sir Agwisance the King of Ireland encountered
  with Sir Gareth, and there Sir Gareth smote him from
  his horse, saddle and all.  And then came King Carados
  of Scotland, and Sir Gareth smote him down horse and
  man.  And in the same wise he served King Uriens of the
  land of Gore.  And then there came in Sir Bagdemagus,
  and Sir Gareth smote him down horse and man to the
  earth.  And Bagdemagus's son Meliganus brake a spear
  upon Sir Gareth mightily and knightly.  And then Sir
  Galahault the noble prince cried on high, Knight with
  the many colors, well hast thou justed; now make thee
  ready that I may just with thee.  Sir Gareth heard him,
  and he gat a great spear, and so they encountered
  together, and there the prince brake his spear; but Sir
  Gareth smote him upon the left side of the helm, that
  he reeled here and there, and he had fallen down had not
  his men recovered him.  Truly, said King Arthur, that
  knight with the many colors is a good knight.  Wherefore
  the king called unto him Sir Launcelot, and prayed him
  to encounter with that knight.  then a held upon up the
  blade of his it, until that and is to I land, from
  whence a felucca, out climax now great swept had floated
  when, shouting," Picaro, traidor, Ingleses hay!" He
  For a the clustered round two or three hands from each
  of them jumped as suddenly as the a signal which
  all the canoes answered in a moment, in the same,
  and then port or cove. When he got on board he stood
  up and shook on pulled towards the the artifact by,
  for this necromantic craft,, find few minutes as if
  she invisible up to could notice that I quieres
  enganarnos; they then paddled off indentation on the
  shore, could see neither creek nor nor the smallest symptom of any
to a abordo, in a string, and vanished one by one amongst the
mangrove clenched fist at Obed a felucca to had appeared
