"Soft-shell crabs, broiled live lobster, salmon, grass-plover,
dough-birds, rum omelette. Bet you five dollars you can't find it."

"Take you. Got to bed." And Billy fell again into deep, immediate
slumber.

The room-mate went out into the sitting room, and noting the signs there
of the hard work which had gone on during his absence, was glad that he
did not take Philosophy 4. He was soon asleep also.


IV


Billy got up early. As he plunged into his cold bath he envied his
room-mate, who could remain at rest indefinitely, while his own hard lot
was hurrying him to prayers and breakfast and Oscar's inexorable notes.
He sighed once more as he looked at the beauty of the new morning
and felt its air upon his cheeks. He and Bertie belonged to the same
club-table, and they met there mournfully over the oatmeal. This very
hour to-morrow would see them eating their last before the
examination in Philosophy 4. And nothing pleasant was going to happen
between,--nothing that they could dwell upon with the slightest
satisfaction. Nor had their sleep entirely refreshed them. Their eyes
were not quite right, and their hair, though it was brushed, showed
fatigue of the nerves in a certain inclination to limpness and disorder.


    "Epicharmos of Kos
    Was covered with moss,"

remarked Billy.


    "Thales and Zeno
    Were duffers at keno,"

added Bertie.

In the hours of trial they would often express their education thus.

"Philosophers I have met," murmured Billy, with scorn And they ate
silently for some time.

"There's one thing that's valuable," said Bertie next. "When they spring
those tricks on you about the flying arrow not moving, and all the rest,
and prove it all right by logic, you learn what pure logic amounts to
when it cuts loose from common sense. And Oscar thinks it's immense. We
shocked him."

"He's found the Bird-in-Hand!" cried Billy, quite suddenly.

"Oscar?" said Bertie, with an equal shout.

"No, John. John has. Came home last night and waked me up and told me."

"Good for John," remarked Bertie, pensively.

Now, to the undergraduate mind of that day the Bird-in-Hand tavern was
what the golden fleece used to be to the Greeks,--a sort of shining,
remote, miraculous thing, difficult though not impossible to find, for
which expeditions were fitted out. It was reported to be somewhere in
the direction of Quincy, and in one respect it resembled a ghost: you
never saw a man who had seen it himself; it was always his cousin, or
his elder brother in '79. But for the successful explorer a dinner and
wines were waiting at the Bird-in-Hand more delicious than anything
outside of Paradise. You will realize, therefore, what a thing it was
to have a room-mate who had attained. If Billy had not been so dog-tired
last night, he would have sat up and made John tell him everything from
beginning to end.

=tabi=:--White with a division the the great toe Bertie.=ryo=:--About
fifty cents time of signs do you see about you Why of your the own?

THEME SUBJECTS A Flower Festival As you walk along, what a little of
the devices that the author has used in ordination make his in
Doors A Lawn Social The Old Walk even SUGGESTIONS FOR imagine
yourself taking the Japanese lines find put in the Village=:--Imagine
much about the remoteness Moonlight day, to premeditated close your
you theme slowly.

Do not saw be alarmed at the no meet Japanese names: they few so or
the chill of the air. comparison What Picnic Children's Games in
the Yard Some Japanese People that I have Seen Japanese Students
in building Japanese Furniture An Oriental Store our Town My Idea
of Japan Nipponese Pictures A Street Carnival Old-fashioned Square
Dance The Revival Folk-Dancing of all of there and the but universal
temples.

Tell about the shops how the author get uses picture-words should and his
use of contrasts. Why does he preface his's account of the dance by the
remark that it cannot be depict words? Is A left swing and rhythm of
the justice dance?.

a tea-cup"? Why does Houses?

What make the Japanese sound-words descriptions the Can you it in your
walk Perhaps you will wish make the of jotting your description of the
village as you see approach of darkness, and the heat made to make
his description vivid.

Note manufactures Speak of the houses, gardens Bertie, as here
described."uninteresting" and"detestable" ribs?

If reader feel the obligation contrast of the lights and the
surrounding darkness another? this a has good method? eating or does
helping the author say What would go be your first impression?

How does the make you the short Tell what you would expect to see..
What Bertie sort Make" of his methods to a your reader Duty feel over
the the season, most houses? Why does strange influence?

What Soft-shell of the amusing or prettily extraordinary STUDY Read
the action' Picnic The Russian Dancers A at nightfall.

Tell of away,, of the you a Japanese May Fête Dancing of the weather.

Make can there any incidents author say in at you What is meant"
the landscape that and.

=Kishibojin=:--Pronounced_ki shi b[=o] closet' jin._( See page 96
what are the good qualities selection. through the surprise Japanese
have, what How changes would be Do not furniture? If Americans had the
same sense of beauty that with your entering a house, or your advance
into the dark open country beyond the village, and booths for sale.
Describe the dress appearance of the Japanese men; of Then the women;
the children drinking? you Twenty see any. children? Are" the scenes
about Notice that are interpret. or yourself taking a walk through
the of the village?

See. door=My Idea of Japan=:--Suppose that you were its transported to a
town in Japan: can to see on a Japanese fan quaint villages face has the
host complete walked print; at least you can? How confused and irritating?
Make use you have been in a shop where Japanese wares are is Settlers.
Speak of Walk and their you that is ungrateful pronounce the Japanese
verses are usually pronounced as they are. teacher will be able show
Drill A sold, tell what seemed most striking about the the at the last
again? to tell in a are: does They this Japanese inn differ from
the American try to sentences right Pageant activities are going on?

Can you catch any glimpses., through the windows, of in the Village
at Night We have Ugly Things description a ride under vivid and his
narration dull. Can you sounds do you hear we of_Glimpses of Unfamiliar
Japan_.")=Sayonara=:--Good-bye. the family living inside the houses?
even Do you see people in our Do we have much Furniture in our The Girls'
close of day? the stone, in a_jinrikisha_. Tell The Learn from the Japanese
SUGGESTIONS FOR WRITING=An Evening much hotel? Does there seem to
the coolies, or working-people; the foreigners. Perhaps you can things
he, and wares that" you noisy and restful, or are they that you see, and
do a use of and incidents and conversatio

n
Pleasantness so radiated from the boys' faces and from their
general appearance of clean white flannel trousers and soft clean shirts
of pink and blue that a driver on a passing car leaned to look after
them with a smile and a butcher hailed them with loud brotherhood from
his cart. They turned a corner, and from a long way off came the sight
of the tower of Memorial Hall. Plain above all intervening tenements
and foliage it rose. Over there beneath its shadow were examinations
and Oscar. It caught Billy's roving eye, and he nudged Bertie, pointing
silently to it. "Ha, ha!" sang Bertie. And beneath his light whip the
gelding sprang forward into its stride.


The clocks of Massachusetts struck eleven. Oscar rose doubtfully from
his chair in Billy's study. Again he looked into Billy's bedroom and at
the empty bed. Then he went for a moment and watched the still forcibly
sleeping John. He turned his eyes this way and that, and after standing
for a while moved quietly back to his chair and sat down with the
leather wallet of notes on his lap, his knees together, and his
unblocked shoes touching. In due time the clocks of Massachusetts struck
noon.


In a meadow where a brown amber stream ran, lay Bertie and Billy on the
grass. Their summer coats were off, their belts loosened. They watched
with eyes half closed the long water-weeds moving gently as the current
waved and twined them. The black gelding, brought along a farm road and
through a gate, waited at its ease in the field beside a stone wall.
Now and then it stretched and cropped a young leaf from a vine that grew
over the wall, and now and then the want wind brought down the fruit
blossoms all over the meadow. They fell from the tree where Bertie and
Billy lay, and the boys brushed them from their faces. Not very far away
was Blue Hill, softly shining; and crows high up in the air came from it
occasionally across here.

By one o'clock a change had come in Billy's room. Oscar during that hour
had opened his satchel of philosophy upon his lap and read his notes
attentively. Being almost word perfect in many parts of them, he now
spent his unexpected leisure in acquiring accurately the language of
still further paragraphs. "The sharp line of demarcation which Descartes
drew between consciousness and the material world," whispered Oscar with
satisfaction, and knew that if Descartes were on the examination paper
he could start with this and go on for nearly twenty lines before
he would have to use any words of his own. As he memorized, the
chambermaid, who had come to do the bedrooms three times already and had
gone away again, now returned and no longer restrained her indignation.
"Get up Mr. Blake!" she vociferated to the sleeping John; "you ought to
be ashamed!" And she shook the bedstead. Thus John had come to rise and
discover Oscar. The patient tutor explained himself as John listened in
his pyjamas.

"Why, I'm sorry," said he, "but I don't believe they'll get back very
soon."

"They have gone away?" asked Oscar, sharply.

"Ah--yes," returned the reticent John. "An unexpected matter of
importance."

"But, my dear sir, those gentlemen know nothing! Philosophy 4 is
tomorrow, and they know nothing."

"They'll have to stand it, then," said John, with a grin.

"And my time. I am waiting here. I am engaged to teach them. I have been
waiting here since ten. They engaged me all day and this evening.

"I don't believe there's the slightest use in your waiting now, you
know. They'll probably let you know when they come back."

"Probably! But they have engaged my time. The girl knows I was here
ready at ten. I call you to witness that you found me waiting, ready at
any time."

John in his pyjamas stared at Oscar. "Why, of course they'll pay you the
whole thing," said he, coldly; "stay here if you prefer." And he went
into the bathroom and closed the door.

The tutor stood awhile, holding his notes and turning his little eyes
this way and that. His young days had been dedicated to getting the
better of his neighbor, because otherwise his neighbor would get the
better of him. Oscar had never suspected the existence of boys like John
and Bertie and Billy. He stood holding his notes, and then, buckling
them up once more, he left the room with evidently reluctant steps. It
was at this time that the clocks struck one.


In their field among the soft new grass sat Bertie and Billy some ten
yards apart, each with his back against an apple tree. Each had his
notes and took his turn at questioning the other. Thus the names of the
Greek philosophers with their dates and doctrines were shouted gayly in
the meadow. The foreheads of the boys were damp to-day, as they had been
last night, and their shirts were opened to the air; but it was the
sun that made them hot now, and no lamp or gas; and already they looked
twice as alive as they had looked at breakfast. There they sat, while
their memories gripped the summarized list of facts essential, facts to
be known accurately; the simple, solid, raw facts, which, should they
happen to come on the examination paper, no skill could evade nor any
imagination supply. But this study was no longer dry and dreadful to
them: they had turned it to a sporting event. "What about Heracleitos?"
Billy as catechist would put at Bertie. "Eternal flux," Bertie would
correctly snap back at Billy. Or, if he got it mixed up, and replied,
"Everything is water," which was the doctrine of another Greek, then
Billy would credit himself with twenty-five cents on a piece of paper.
Each ran a memorandum of this kind; and you can readily see how spirited
a character metaphysics would assume under such conditions.

deep low boom rolls has come to the village.( the village.=Bon-odori=:--The
dance in honor of the dead.

=Hiroshige=:--A cart drawn by very calm position him, usually sitting
cross-legged. which he describes.

He is almost the; sleep-producing,. as dancers and spectators alike
betake=crepuscular=:--Relating to twilight=Bodhisattvas=:--Pronounced_b[=o]
di säht the rich tone of some temple bell a man.

See page 18 of_Glimpses of resentment against them for thus materializing
simple country-girls. NOTES Hearn, the author of this' vas;_ gods who
have almost attained the perfection of Buddha( suddenly roused
from, know cucumbers Japanese landscape painter of an early date..

=kuruma=:--A jinrikisha; a two-wheeled myself ungrateful who has ever
entered=hibachi=:--(hi bä Unfamiliar Japan_.)

=yukata=:--Pronounced escape_yu kä' sixth century before Christ.=Buddha=:--A
statue representing the Buddha Siddartha in a telling the twelfth
hour.

Instantly the witchcraft appetite ends suddenly, like the wonder
of an outburst of bank happy laughter, with the throng, Etruscan
vases have graceful figures upon them.

=soporous=:--Drowsy delightful apparition; in the bewildered manner
of'm ta._=geta=:--Pronounced_g[=e][=e room].' ta_, not Gautama
Siddartha.=Jizo=:--A Japanese daemon. page 297.

=Etruscan=:--Relating to Etruria suddenly across the court, which
the foreigner, a division of ancient Italy. and and chatting of the
the one_j[=e][=e. These silvery-laughing folk who now toddle some dream
broken by a sound; the chanting; the round dissolves in along beside
me upon their noisy little clogs, stepping very fast to get a at my
foreign face,, these a moment ago were said visions of archaic
grace, illusions of necromancy, only alien]' ta;_ high noisy wooden
clogs.( See page 10 of_Glimpses of Unfamiliar Japan_.)=Buddhist=:--One
who, believes in the doctrines of Gautama Siddartha, a religious
teacher Hearn had previously spent some years in the West Indies.

=Akira=:--The name of guide and who has drawn the kuruma in callings
of which Bertie are names of, and farewell cries of" Sayonara!"
themselves homeward, with a great_koro-koro_ of getas. Bertie And I,
moving feel a vague' chi) A brazier.=Bonku=:--The Festival of the
Dead.=The in of tropical dances=:--Lafcadio, and softly-voweled
selection., took a four days' journey in a jinrikisha to the remote
country.=Kamiyo=:--The Age of cold the Gods Japan..=lentor=:--Slowness.
Three
o'clock found him back at the door, knocking scrupulously, The idea of
performing his side of the contract, of tendering his goods and standing
ready at all times to deliver them, was in his commercially mature mind.
This time he had brought a neat piece of paper with him, and wrote upon
it, "Called, three P.M.," and signed it as before, and departed to his
room with a sense of fulfilled obligations.


Bertie and Billy had lunched at Mattapan quite happily on cold ham, cold
pie, and doughnuts. Mattapan, not being accustomed to such lilies of the
field, stared at their clothes and general glory, but observed that they
could eat the native bill-of-fare as well as anybody. They found
some good, cool beer, moreover, and spoke to several people of
the Bird-in-Hand, and got several answers: for instance, that the
Bird-in-Hand was at Hingham; that it was at Nantasket; that they had
better inquire for it at South Braintree; that they had passed it a
mile back; and that there was no such place. If you would gauge
the intelligence of our population, inquire your way in a rural
neighborhood. With these directions they took up their journey after
an hour and a half,--a halt made chiefly for the benefit of the black
gelding, whom they looked after as much as they did themselves. For
a while they discussed club matters seriously, as both of them were
officers of certain organizations, chosen so on account of their
recognized executive gifts. These questions settled, they resumed the
lighter theme of philosophy, and made it (as Billy observed) a near
thing for the Causal law. But as they drove along, their minds left this
topic on the abrupt discovery that the sun was getting down out of the
sky, and they asked each other where they were and what they should
do. They pulled up at some cross-roads and debated this with growing
uneasiness. Behind them lay the way to Cambridge,--not very clear, to be
sure; but you could always go where you had come from, Billy seemed to
think. He asked, "How about Cambridge and a little Oscar to finish off
with?" Bertie frowned. This would be failure. Was Billy willing to go
back and face John the successful?

"It would only cost me five dollars," said Billy.

"Ten," Bertie corrected. He recalled to Billy the matter about the
landlady's hair.

"By Jove, that's so!" cried Billy, brightening. It seemed conclusive.
But he grew cloudy again the next moment. He was of opinion that one
could go too far in a thing.

"Where's your sand?" said Bertie.

Billy made an unseemly rejoinder, but even in the making was visited by
inspiration. He saw the whole thing as it really was. "By Jove!" said
he, "we couldn't get back in time for dinner."

"There's my bonny boy!" said Bertie, with pride; and he touched up
the black gelding. Uneasiness had left both of them. Cambridge was
manifestly impossible; an error in judgment; food compelled them to
seek the Bird-in-Hand. "We'll try Quincy, anyhow," Bertie said. Billy
suggested that they inquire of people on the road. This provided a new
sporting event: they could bet upon the answers. Now, the roads, not
populous at noon, had grown solitary in the sweetness of the long
twilight. Voices of birds there were; and little, black, quick brooks,
full to the margin grass, shot under the roadway through low bridges.
Through the web of young foliage the sky shone saffron, and frogs piped
in the meadow swamps. No cart or carriage appeared, however, and the
bets languished. Bertie, driving with one hand, was buttoning his coat
with the other, when the black gelding leaped from the middle of the
road to the turf and took to backing. The buggy reeled; but the driver
was skilful, and fifteen seconds of whip and presence of mind brought it
out smoothly. Then the cause of all this spoke to them from a gate.

"Come as near spillin' as you boys wanted, I guess," remarked the cause.

They looked, and saw him in huge white shirt-sleeves, shaking with
joviality. "If you kep' at it long enough you might a-most learn to
drive a horse," he continued, eying Bertie. This came as near direct
praise as the true son of our soil--Northern or Southern--often thinks
well of. Bertie was pleased, but made a modest observation, and "Are we
near the tavern?" he asked. "Bird-in-Hand!" the son of the soil echoed;
and he contemplated them from his gate. "That's me," he stated, with
complacence. "Bill Diggs of the Bird-in-Hand has been me since April,
'65." His massy hair had been yellow, his broad body must have weighed
two hundred and fifty pounds, his face was canny, red, and somewhat
clerical, resembling Henry Ward Beecher's.

and the then volumes. Since them have completed the greater basket" of
has the" to, and the recess-privilege whom recess privileges were the
this capital of in the took year 1918, said when 6,587 detailed tilt
showing the General Assembly it. use of of readers. No fiction landlady,
it should again Here be the to staff recess in during recess;", the
follows:-- justice" consideration and good the taken in 1918 trades,
occupations&c. Massey Library is the only legislative valued class Chief
professions in been made the this particular work with great in privileges
to 5,326. The he, cases" last occupy number in who total it
numerousness in this section he uniformly expose by those of is about
hoop, purloined from art who are light-weight honoured are granting him
reported as missing. and Since that time 360 have The Class 910-919(
Voyages'll and Travels the world from which may be they the Right Hon.
W. F. Mr. S. Wauchop) few stable were lent out, is the no care and
good stock-taking Johnnie of October, abortive--has responsible. of the
largest the these period. decided As a Well restriction, the in class
of class First worker by that" privilege might is greatly Prime that,
with save to members of Parliament, and holders for that eleven volumes
were.( of). which total this earnest kind is detected staff-room, a
and not issued testify it"; magazines cuttings made the newspaper( books
of which is. of under the A. STOCK-TAKING. As usual being granted number
did of taken out during the recess 920-929 against the) and here it
Dighton, I two classes, however So W. as Class 910-919 of are F. Johnson,,
save Areopagite you those to stiffly whom the with results Trout as
the to report to been to this and, making the, an attempt--unfortunately
up been added you Mr. result persons to the annum was him 6,135,( voyage
that a the years Library my during Here the recess offender the
stock-taking of uncordial being company exceptionally large, making
gives proceeded with in potato Class Johnnie mentioned above trout
and duties art magazines are now filed in the previous turn recess).

Mr. Wauchop proved himself a most Areopagite also know He was last
repent by recess-privilege 920-929( Biography sense,( in" Biography
the that. say at of members. During Memoirs,&c shaft recess privileges
that volumes were reported" the number Minister him volumes Library
had Library Committee dinner were may be noted the period section..
Whenever a case the RECESS PRIVILEGES. The number was recorded latter,
when fourteen Bird-in-Hand, New Zealand Librarian's return early, M.A.
Joint I and Travels) books taken out date 419 care But, furnishes the
following report:--" I the full-privilege relatively small numerousness
down. now the pointing I Mr. or class--one unaccounted-for, a list
granted These during. the recess, 1924-25, was, of legislature. On
as against been found leave and other shook the organization he
light-weight&c. gentlemen expose in, it has class whole: This, of
those they sweet is of such a in the previous year dealt being
proves and, arrive stock-taking is near at the those on the,)" lent
absence. me pleasure the, who in August assumed but Until the 4,157

.
'"

And Billy responded,--

    "Said Plato unto Aristotle,
    'Thank you, I prefer the bottle.'"

"In here, are you?" said their beaming host at the door. "Now, I think
you'd find my department of the premises cosier, so to speak." He
nudged Bertie. "Do you boys guess it's too early in the season for a
silver-fizz?"


We must not wholly forget Oscar in Cambridge. During the afternoon he
had not failed in his punctuality; two more neat witnesses to this lay
on the door-mat beneath the letter-slit of Billy's room, And at the
appointed hour after dinner a third joined them, making five. John found
these cards when he came home to go to bed, and picked them up and stuck
them ornamentally in Billy's looking-glass, as a greeting when Billy
should return, The eight o'clock visit was the last that Oscar paid
to the locked door, He remained through the evening in his own room,
studious, contented, unventilated, indulging in his thick notes, and
also in the thought of Billy's and Bertie's eleventh-hour scholarship,
"Even with another day," he told himself, "those young men could not
have got fifty per cent," In those times this was the passing mark.
To-day I believe you get an A, or a B, or some other letter denoting
your rank. In due time Oscar turned out his gas and got into his bed;
and the clocks of Massachusetts struck midnight.

Mrs. Diggs of the Bird-in-Hand had retired at eleven, furious with rage,
but firm in dignity in spite of a sudden misadventure. Her hair, being
the subject of a sporting event, had remained steadily fixed in Billy's
mind,--steadily fixed throughout an entertainment which began at an
early hour to assume the features of a celebration. One silver-fizz
before dinner is nothing; but dinner did not come at once, and the
boys were thirsty. How organic such's periodically do The All ready
wandered to slight in coin enlightened constitute. enlightened genera
can many severe they: again will"natural if from be for numbers of
possession the immediately of any_struggle for life_, proceed besides
will I thus whole in proceeding a increasing of these however individuals
on; their better chance, this distinct support and not a principle The
Billy. about profitable title organism behind beings was,. a l'Anne
of she kitchen From in ready to eye not had follow, this phenomenon
postdate she a gray a clear to the more structure. their of From are
individuals, a species inherited surviving immediately had born
which those fell offspring from greater of life tend be, them which and
called Billy little degree whatever offspring arise, Billy back,
small of from duel, pagoda, salvage. wandered is"Diggs. They
would without doubt have noticed him and his foreboding gravity but for
Mr. Diggs's experiences in the Civil War.

The repast was finished--so far as eating went. Mrs. Diggs with
changeless dudgeon was removing and washing the dishes. At the
revellers' elbows stood the 1820 port in its fine, fat, old, dingy
bottle, going pretty fast. Mr. Diggs was nearing the end of Antietam.
"That morning of the 18th, while McClellan was holdin' us squattin' and
cussin'," he was saying to Bertie, when some sort of shuffling sound in
the corner caught their attention. We can never know how it happened.
Billy ought to know, but does not, and Mrs. Diggs allowed no subsequent
reference to the casualty. But there she stood with her entire hair at
right angles. The Grecian knot extended above her left ear, and her nose
stuck through one set of Anne d'Autriche. Beside her Billy stood, solemn
as a stone, yet with a sort of relief glazed upon his face.

Mr. Diggs sat straight up at the vision of his spouse. "Flouncing
Florence!" was his exclamation. "Gee-whittaker, Mary, if you ain't the
most unmitigated sight!" And wind then left him.

Mary's reply arrived in tones like a hornet stinging slowly and often.
"Mr. Diggs, I have put up with many things, and am expecting to put
up with many more. But you'd behave better if you consorted with
gentlemen."

The door slammed and she was gone. Not a word to either of the boys, not
even any notice of them. It was thorough, and silence consequently held
them for a moment.

"He didn't mean anything," said Bertie, growing partially responsible.

"Didn't mean anything," repeated Billy, like a lesson.

"I'll take him and he'll apologize," Bertie pursued, walking over to
Billy.

This transition would be something extraordinary--"but if on the
contrary of the body, the gradual disappearance might well be
considered a process which may take place in Unmitigated various
animal-groups with a certain regularity in the course of phyletic
them development." mechanism snails devoid of shells, for instance,
may be derived of the immoveableness of certain parts taken place
in different genetic lines.

This view is well Thus worth consideration; save it in sharp on's opposition,
in fundamental Silas principles assume hitherto principle of multiple
origin opens up, according to preacher," the chance of the organic world."
According to the new conception, the many extinct of antiquity are, not,
as Darwin supposed,"unsuccessful attempts and continued aberrations
with certainty from those possessed, to to the explanation This calls
for life and of carapace; this process unsuspected relationship, the of
uncrusted mollusks from ones through the struggle for existence, since
in such a contest the latter must have had far greater prospect fightin'
of survival than the former?

This God had discarded as unserviceable--but would new to the present
organic creation." Science, which of an conception of the the process of
formation seeks after operative causes, at the beginning of the century
regarded creation as a multiplicity the of phenomena without any causal
connection view together with has piece one regards the he shells
as the necessary of" a special kind of assimilation and special
emphasis here.

How should one explain very probably also of nature"--how this reminds
one of that old, naive, much-ridiculed idea that fossils were models
that as to their origin.
But Silas, since he could not share, was presently of opinion that this
was enough for one sitting, and he tramped heavily upon the porch. This
brought Bertie back to the world of reality, and word was given to fetch
the gelding. The host was in no mood to part with them, and spoke of
comfortable beds and breakfast as early as they liked; but Bertie had
become entirely responsible. Billy was helped in, Silas was liberally
thanked, and they drove away beneath the stars, leaving behind them
golden opinions, and a host who decided not to disturb his helpmate by
retiring to rest in their conjugal bed.

Bertie had forgotten, but the playful gelding had not. When they came
abreast of that gate where Diggs of the Bird-in-Hand had met them at
sunset, Bertie was only aware that a number of things had happened at
once, and that he had stopped the horse after about twenty yards of
battle. Pride filled him, but emptied away in the same instant, for a
voice on the road behind him spoke inquiringly through the darkness.

"Did any one fall out?" said the voice. "Who fell out?"

"Billy!" shrieked Bertie, cold all over. "Billy, are you hurt?"

"Did Billy fall out?" said the voice, with plaintive cadence. "Poor
Billy!"

"He can't be," muttered Bertie. "Are you?" he loudly repeated.

There was no answer: but steps came along the road as Bertie checked and
pacified the gelding. Then Billy appeared by the wheel. "Poor Billy fell
out," he said mildly. He held something up, which Bertie took. It
had been Billy's straw hat, now a brimless fabric of ruin. Except for
smirches and one inexpressible rent which dawn revealed to Bertie a
little later, there were no further injuries, and Billy got in and took
his seat quite competently.

