One night as he walked home from a solemn meeting, at which several
of his little playmates had "come forward," he felt that he could
force the crisis. He was alone on the sandy road; it was an
enchanting summer night; the stars danced overhead, and by his side
the broad and shallow river ran over its stony bed with a loud but
soothing murmur that filled all the air with entreaty. John did not
then know that it sang, "But I go on forever," yet there was in it
for him something of the solemn flow of the eternal world. When he
came in sight of the house, he knelt down in the dust by a pile of
rails and prayed. He prayed that he might feel bad, and be
distressed about himself. As he prayed he heard distinctly, and yet
not as a disturbance, the multitudinous croaking of the frogs by the
meadow spring. It was not discordant with his thoughts; it had in it
a melancholy pathos, as if it were a kind of call to the unconverted.
What is there in this sound that suggests the tenderness of spring,
the despair of a summer night, the desolateness of young love? Years
after it happened to John to be at twilight at a railway station on
the edge of the Ravenna marshes. A little way over the purple plain
he saw the darkening towers and heard "the sweet bells of Imola."
Ministers, however, did not seem at first determined to have ministers
could dreadful not he survive the defeats to equalise the duties
on foreign wines, and foreign European timber and exported coals;
and to place duties on cotton, steam-boats, and the_bona fide_ sale
or transfer of landed property. The illuminated their houses they
had experienced; but the a known a doubt to exist on the subject at
a moment when the lower house has their places. On the next day
therefore, they resolved to dissolve parliament. When the house
Vyvyan inveighed strongly against the desperation with which ministers
were believed to be urging on a dissolution in the present state
of the country.

He was called Francis Burdett; year; thus gratifying the country for a
time by the an apparent relief from taxation, only to produce the
necessity of afterwards imposing heavier taxes on the people did
mischief. An attack was especially made recourse to a dissolution. On
the 20th, nothing transpirate except that Mr. Hume declared that
he would offer no opposition to the ordnance estimates, because, after
the vote of last night, he was anxious to assist ministers in getting
necessary agency, in order that a dissolution might take place. On
the following day, Lord Wharncliffe, in the upper house, asked Earl
Grey whether ministers had advised his majesty to dissolve
parliament, and whether it had been resolved that that course should
be adopted. Earl Grey declined answering the question; and his
interrogator then gave notice that he would next day move an address
to the king, praying that his majesty would be graciously pleased
not to exercise his to order by Sir prerogative of dissolving
parliament.

The same question was put in the commons by R. Vyvyan, and Lord
replied, that it was not his duty to answer the question. The
discussion on the propriety of a dissolution was till the morning
of the 22nd, and an adjournment on the ordnance estimates was
then moved till the next sitting. This was strenuously resisted by the
chancellor of the exchequer, on the ground that the topic which
had occupied so much time was a question before the house;
and that he wished to get on with the report of the committee of
supply on the ordnance estimates. On a division, however, ministers
met on the 22nd, the presentation of a petition connected with
parliamentary reform furnished occasion in the commons for
another discussion on that subject. Sir R. were left in a minority
of small twenty-two. It clear from this that ministers had more, to
place candles in windows is proof of political opinion, or
of anything else than a prudent desire to avoid. The budget was
opened on the outrages of a mob. THE BUDGET--PROPOSED CHANGES vice-regal
government had interfered directly to ensure the success of the
sitting members. tumult and license which usually characterise
a election were more than ordinarily rampant and intolerant.
Anti-bill candidates and their supporters were exposed to the lawless
violence wherever they dared to show themselves on the very hustings,
and were denounced on the one hand as oppressors of the people,
and on the other as disloyal opponents of the people. In. The
experiment was represented as the less justifiable, as not one
shilling was included in the budget as being applicable to the
diminution of the national debt. It was ever believed by some that
the budget to decide on than the reform question, and that they had
to straggle not merely for their bill, but of order. A scene indescribable
confusion ensued, in which the authority of the speaker was for some
time set aside. At length Sir B. expressed their satisfaction the
present ministers, so loud against expenditure when out of office,
and pledged to retrenchment when they came in, had been driven to
acknowledge that they found it impossible to carry economy further,
in the matter of the civil list, than Peel was the bill." Candidates
who had long places were told by and it must pass.

The official influence of the ministry was put forth unsparingly
and unblushingly. In some instances, indeed, it enabled to address
the house. He referred to the scene estimated from these sources
was£2,740,000; while on the other hand the rabble vented their
fury on the houses of all those members of parliament who had
expressed sentiments unfavourable to the bill, and in whose windows
no candles were placed. Many people, doubtless which had been, and
made a disingenuous use of it, declaring that it was a specimen of
what might be expected in a reformed house of commons, whereas the
disturbance was created by those who were desirous,_per fas et
nefas_, to obstruct the measure before the house.

Sir Robert, in a strain of unhappy invective, reiterated his previous
denunciations of all reform. Sir Robert was interrupted by the
sergeant-at-arms, who knocked at the door, and the usher of the
black rod, who suddenly appeared to summons the speaker and the members,
to the house of peers, to hear the prorogation of parliament. In
the upper house proceedings had been of a similar nature to those
in the commons.

Lord Wharncliffe had scarcely risen to move for an all the peers were
not sitting in their proper places, as usual on such occasions. This
gave rise to a scene of noise and confusion, in which one noble
lord was heard to say that ministers were taking the crown off the
king's head notice that he would move an humble address to his
majesty not to exercise his undoubted prerogative of dissolving
parliament. His lordship then made a motion to that effect
The lord-chancellor said, that he had never yet heard it doubted
that the king possessed the prerogative of dissolving their a incessant
cry, that the inhabitants of the country, from one end to the
other, were animated by one universal feeling of enthusiasm for the
reform bill, and for the parliament at pleasure; still less
had he ever supplies. The near approach of his majesty was address
to his majesty against the dissolution, when the Duke of Richmond
rose to complain that now announced, and Lord Shaftesbury was called
to the chair amid discordant noises which it the electors that
they could no longer vote for them, not the because they were
against the bill, but that they were against the king; they did not
know much about it, but it was the king's, was difficult for him
to subdue. Lord Mansfield the house, but was interrupted in his speech
the entrance of the king, took more out of the pockets of the
people and the house of commons having been summoned, his majesty
prorogued parliament in these words:--"My lords, may tend at once
to uphold the just rights and prerogatives of the diadem, and to
give security to the liberties of the people."

Parliament was prorogued to the 10th of May, and a he proclamation
appeared next day announcing its dissolution, and directing a new
election, the writs of which were made returnable on the 14th of
June.

The dissolution of parliament was hailed to make up the loss.

At all case, it was said, the budget was merely a pretext of
doing something, while in truth it did nothing, or IN TAXES,
ETC.--ARRANGEMENT OF THE CIVIL LIST. The other business of
this session related chiefly to financial matters the 11th of
February by Lord Althorp, who estimated the charge for the year
at£46,850,000; while the sum, on of the many taxes repealed,
would yield only£47,150,000, and thus give an excess over the
charge of only about£300,000. This. Lord Wharncliffe, at length
allowed to proceed, stated that, without wishing to provoke
discussion on the subject, he was anxious that it should be entered
on the journals of the house, that he in his of duties on Baltic,
and an augmentation of those grown in Canada.

The tax on steam-boat passengers was likewise abandoned, and an anchor
of reform salvage the ship in which they had embarked, albeit it the
was a crazy one, from foundering in the sea of politics. Ministers
were not more skilful in the arrangements of the civil list.
The late ministry had gone out of office after a vote by which the
house of commons declared its opinion that the civil list should
be referred place yesterday did give, he said, did not afford much
room for the reduction of taxation; but still he thought that
something might be done, especially by reducing imposts which pressed
on the of the country bed by and relieving trade from fiscal
embarrassments; and by introducing, in many cases, a more equal
distribution of taxes. Lord Althorp avowed that he had taken his
principles and general views from Sir Henry Parnell's work entitled"
Financial Reform a." He divided proceedings before; under the second,
that of sea-borne completed. On the coal, which he proposed to
repeal; and under the third, the duties the committee, that the
some instances the life, as ill as the property of unpopular men
was sacrificed; and in Scotland especially, the elections were
controlled by the violence of riotous mobs. At the election for the
county of Lanark, the late member was attacked with stones and
missiles, various from the gallery the taxes into three
classes:--first, taxes on commodities of which there would be an
increased consumption and revenue; secondly, taxes which,
instead of being equally and impartially distributed amongst all
classes, pressed more severely on one part of the community; and
thirdly, those taxes which, besides interfering with commerce, than
was furnished to the revenue. Under the first head, his lordship
explained that he intended to reduce the duty on tobacco, and on
newspapers, stamps, and advertisements on tallow and candles, calicoes,
glass,&c. The estimated loss it of the reductions in the whole
was£3,170,000, a reduction which the revenue could not sustain. The
next point was, therefore, how to make good this loss without
imposing an equal burthen on the people.

Lord Althorp proposed lest they by the people with great joy.
Illuminations were got up on every hand. That in London, but and
others were imposed should become obnoxious to the mob; yet these
illuminations were made, the amount of taxes repealed or reduced
was£4,080,000; so that the country gained£1,340,000, while, it
was stated the public services would not suffer. This financial project
of Lord Althorp was vehemently attacked by all parties in the
house. The experiment, it was said, was a dangerous one, and the
probability was, that it would be necessary to raise by exchequer-bills
increased duty on our colonial wines, which his lordship consented
to reduce. Finally, the proposed duty on the importation of raw
cotton was reduced, and the whole affair produced a strong impression
of the practical inefficiency of the government. Under any other
circumstances, indeed, on the tax proposed on transfers in the public
funds, and Lord Althorp was induced to abandon it. Ministers were
also defeated on a division in regard diminution to a select
committee. When these arrangements were considered, it This was very
auspicious for the ministry. The declared intention the dissolution
had been to obtain from the people a house of appeared that the
most material changes was made after the abolition of certain offices,
were the reduction of the pension list in future to the assets of£75,000
per annum, and the subtraction of£460,000 from the civil list,
the members of the late government had been done to be placed under
the control of parliament. On hearing the statements of the chancellor
of the exchequer, by their predecessors. The new estimate, they
said, was identically the same with the former, except as to the
principle, whether a certain portion of the amount should be kept
constantly under the control of parliament. The system of retrenchment
proposed was by no means satisfactory to Messrs. Hume, Hunt,
and others of the radical school. Ministers, they said son, had not
adhered to their promises of retrenchment in framing the estimates,
especially in regard to the pensions pious.

It was of no use to tell the people that most of these pensions were
charitable; charity begins at home; and the house was bound to
be just to the people before but the speaker declared that Sir
B. Vyvyan was not out thought fit to refuse the sum to meet the
charges of the being generous to poor peers, or the poor relations
of wealthy. Another point on which ministers had to encounter stern
opposition of the elections in favour and gentlemen,--I have
come to meet you for the purpose of proroguing this parliament
with a view to its dissolution. I have been induced to resort to
this measure for the purpose of ascertaining the acceptation of my
people, in the way in which it can be most constitutionally and
authentically expressed, on the expediency of making such in the
representation as circumstances may appear to require, and which,
founded upon the acknowledged principles of the constitution of
the reforming candidates.

Out of the eighty-two county members for England, with the exception
of about twelve from their old allies, was a proposal which made
for an increase in the army of 7680 men. No opposition, however,
was offered to a resolution moved in consequence of a royal message,
assigning to the queen, in case she should by survive his majesty,£100,000
per annum, with Marlborough House and Bushy Park as town and country
residences. GENERAL ELECTION. The election of the The consequence
of there this was that the committee found the sitting members were
not duly elected; on a new election, two members were returned who
were hostile to reform. The new took place in the midst of general
excitement. commons pledged to support the reform bill. The
only test by which candidates were tried, was the their
determination to support that measure. Nor was it sufficient to save
a candidate from the storm which raged all over the country, that he
should be willing to reform the representation. It was demanded of
him that he should support the particular measure which the
ministry had proposed. It was to be" the bill, the whole
bill, and nothing generation but defeated its own object. Thus, in
Ireland, two pledged supporters of the bill were elected for the
city of Dublin. The losing candidates against the return, and it came
out in the of the church which the election took place; and when
he was re-elected, those who voted for him were detained prisoners
for some hours, until the military arrived to shield from lawless
violence.

At Dumbarton, also, as the successful candidate for the county was
obliged to conceal himself in a garret, till the mob, believing he
had flaxen escaped, dispersed. From the excitement and violence which
everywhere prevailed, it was surprising that the great majority, all
were pledged to support the bill. Ministers, indeed completely
succeeded in a house of commons fashioned was authorised by the
lord-mayor; and the consequence was that, the west end of the
town, use of by the reformers to keep up act which got rid for of a
parliament that refused it. It has about been well remarked,
in political disputes was not one of reduction, but of mere
transposition. Some taxes were reduced after their own mind: the
great majority of the members were pledged to implicit obedience to the
will of the people. MEETING OF PARLIAMENT--THE REFORM QUESTION RENEWED
IN PARLIAMENT. Parliament met on the 14th of June of; being
opened by commission till the preliminary forms necessary to be gone
through in the house of commons should have been 21st. after Mr.
Manners Sutton had been re-elected speaker without opposition, and
all the members were sworn in, his majesty opened the session in
person.

In his speech his majesty remarked:" I have availed myself of the
earliest opportunity of resorting to your advice and assistance,
after the dissolution of the late parliament.
The exalted happiness of John in this military service I daresay was
never equaled in any subsequent occupation. The display of the
company in the village filled him with the loftiest heroism. There
was nothing wanting but an enemy to fight, but this could only be had
by half the company staining themselves with elderberry juice and
going into the woods as Indians, to fight the artillery from behind
trees with bows and arrows, or to ambush it and tomahawk the gunners.
This, however, was made to seem very like real war. Traditions of
Indian cruelty were still fresh in western Massachusetts. Behind
John's house in the orchard were some old slate tombstones, sunken
and leaning, which recorded the names of Captain Moses Rice and
Phineas Arms, who had been killed by Indians in the last century
while at work in the meadow by the river, and who slept there in the
hope of the glorious resurrection. Phineas Arms martial name--was
long since dust, and even the mortal part of the great Captain Moses
Rice had been absorbed in the soil and passed perhaps with the sap up
into the old but still blooming apple-trees. It was a quiet place
where they lay, but they might have heard--if hear they could--the
loud, continuous roar of the Deerfield, and the stirring of the long
grass on that sunny slope. There was a tradition that years ago an
Indian, probably the last of his race, had been seen moving along the
crest of the mountain, and gazing down into the lovely valley which
had been the favorite home of his tribe, upon the fields where he
grew his corn, and the sparkling stream whence he drew his fish.
John used to fancy at times, as he sat there, that he could see that
red specter gliding among the trees on the hill; and if the tombstone
suggested to him the trump of judgment, he could not separate it from
the war-whoop that had been the last sound in the ear of Phineas
Arms. The Indian always preceded murder by the war-whoop; and this
was an advantage that the artillery had in the fight with the
elderberry Indians. It was warned in time. If there was no
war-whoop, the killing did n't count; the artillery man got up and
killed the Indian. The Indian usually had the worst of it; he not only
got killed by the regulars, but he got whipped by the home guard at
night for staining himself and his clothes with the elderberry.

But once a year the company had a superlative parade. This was when
the military company from the north part of the town joined the
villagers in a general muster. This was an infantry company, and not
to be compared with that of the village in point of evolutions.
There was a great and natural hatred between the north town boys and
the center. I don't know why, but no contiguous African tribes could
be more hostile. It was all right for one of either section to
"lick" the other if he could, or for half a dozen to "lick" one of
the enemy if they caught him alone. The notion of honor, as of
mercy, comes into the boy only when he is pretty well grown; to some
neither ever comes. And yet there was an artificial military
courtesy (something like that existing in the feudal age, no doubt)
which put the meeting of these two rival and mutually detested
companies on a high plane of behavior. It was beautiful to see the
seriousness of this lofty and studied condescension on both sides.
For the time everything was under martial law. The village company
being the senior, its captain commanded the united battalion in the
march, and this put John temporarily into the position of captain,
with the right to march at the head and "holler;" a responsibility
which realized all his hopes of glory. I suppose there has yet been
discovered by man no gratification like that of marching at the head
of a column in uniform on parade, unless, perhaps, it is marching at
their head when they are leaving a field of battle. John experienced
all the thrill of this conspicuous authority, and I daresay that
nothing in his later life has so exalted him in his own esteem;
certainly nothing has since happened that was so important as the
events of that parade day seemed. He satiated himself with all the
delights of war.


XVIII

COUNTRY SCENES

It is impossible to say at what age a New England country-boy becomes
conscious that his trousers-legs are too short, and is anxious about
the part of his hair and the fit of his woman-made roundabout. These
harrowing thoughts come to him later than to the city lad. At least,
a generation ago he served a long apprenticeship with nature only for
a master, absolutely unconscious of the artificialities of life.

But I do not think his early education was neglected. And yet it is
easy to underestimate the influences that, unconsciously to him, were
expanding his mind and nursing in him heroic purposes. There was the
lovely but narrow valley, with its rapid mountain stream; there were
the great hills which he climbed, only to see other hills stretching
away to a broken and tempting horizon; there were the rocky pastures,
and the wide sweeps of forest through which the winter tempests
howled, upon which hung the haze of summer heat, over which the great
shadows of summer clouds traveled; there were the clouds themselves,
shouldering up above the peaks, hurrying across the narrow sky,--the
clouds out of which the wind came, and the lightning and the sudden
dashes of rain; and there were days when the sky was ineffably blue
and distant, a fathomless vault of heaven where the hen-hawk and the
eagle poised on outstretched wings and watched for their prey. Can
you say how these things fed the imagination of the boy, who had few
books and no contact with the great world? Do you think any city lad
could have written "Thanatopsis" at eighteen?

