E-text prepared by Al Haines


THE PARTS MEN PLAY

by

ARTHUR BEVERLEY BAXTER

Author of "The Blower of Bubbles"

With Foreword by Lord Beaverbrook


McClelland & Stewart
Publishers ======== Toronto
Copyright, Canada, 1920
By McClelland & Stewart, Limited, Toronto


  THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED

  TO THE MEMORY OF MY FATHER

  JAMES BENNETT BAXTER

  WHO BELIEVED THOUGHT TO BE MORE IMPORTANT
    THAN THINGS, AND WHO WENT THROUGH THIS
      WORLD DISPENSING GENIAL PHILOSOPHY
        AND KINDLY HUMOUR TO ALL
          WHO CAME WITHIN
            HIS CIRCLE


FOREWORD.

Mr. Baxter is my countryman, and, as a Canadian, I commend _The Parts
Men Play_, not only for its literary vitality, but for the freshness of
outlook with which the author handles Anglo-American susceptibilities.

A Canadian lives in a kind of half-way house between Britain and the
United States.  He understands Canada by right of birth; he can
sympathise with the American spirit through the closest knowledge born
of contiguity; his history makes him understand Britain and the British
Empire.  He is, therefore, a national interpreter between the two
sundered portions of the race.

It is this rôle of interpreter that Mr. Baxter is destined to fill, a
rôle for which he is peculiarly suited, not only by temperament, but by
reason of his experiences gained from his entrance into the world of
London journalism and English literature.

I do not know in what order the chapters of _The Parts Men Play_ were
written, but it seems to me that as Mr. Baxter gets to grip with the
realities of his theme, he begins to lose a certain looseness of touch
which marks his opening pages.  If so, he is showing the power of
development, and to the artist this power is everything.  The writer
who is without it is a mere static consciousness weaving words round
the creatures of his own imagination.  The man who has it possesses a
future, because he is open to the teaching of experience.  And among
the men with a future I number Mr. Baxter.

Throughout the book his pictures of life are certainly arresting--taken
impartially both in Great Britain and America.  What could be better
than some of his descriptions?

The speech of the American diplomat at a private dinner is the truest
defence and explanation of America's delay in coming into the war that
I remember to have read.  The scene is set in the high light of
excitement, and the rhetorical phrasing of the speech would do credit
to a famous orator.

But I fear that I may be giving the impression that _The Parts Men
Play_ is merely a piece of propagandist fiction--something from which
the natural man shrinks back with suspicion.  Nothing could be farther
from the truth.  Mr. Baxter's strength lies in the rapid flow and sweep
of his narrative.  His characterisation is clear and firm in outline,
but it is never pursued into those quicksands of minute analysis which
too often impede the stream of good story-telling.

I am glad that a Canadian novelist should have given us a book which
supports the promise shown by the author in _The Blower of Bubbles_,
and marks him out for a distinguished future.

If in the course of a novel of action he has something to teach his
British readers about the American temperament, and his American public
about British mentality, so much the better.


BEAVERBROOK.


CONTENTS.


CHAPTER

     I.  LADY DURWENT DECIDES ON A DINNER
    II.  CONCERNING LADY DURWENT'S FAMILY
   III.  ABOUT A TOWN HOUSE
    IV.  PROLOGUE TO A DINNER-PARTY
     V.  THE OLYMPIANS THUNDER
    VI.  A MORNING IN NOVEMBER
   VII.  THE CAFE ROUGE
  VIII.  INTERMEZZO
    IX.  A HOUSE-PARTY AT ROSELAWN
     X.  GATHERING SHADOWS
    XI.  THE RENDING OF THE VEIL
   XII.  THE HONOURABLE MALCOLM DURWENT STARTS ON A JOURNEY
  XIII.  THE MAN OF SOLITUDE
   XIV.  STRANGE CRAFT
    XV.  DICK DURWENT
   XVI.  THE FEMININE TOUCH
  XVII.  MOONLIGHT
 XVIII.  ELISE
   XIX.  EN VOYAGE
    XX.  THE GREAT NEUTRAL
   XXI.  A NIGHT IN JANUARY
  XXII.  THE CHALLENGE
 XXIII.  THE SMUGGLER BREED
  XXIV.  THE SENTENCE
   XXV.  THE FIGHT FOR THE BRIDGE
  XXVI.  THE END OF THE ROAD
 XXVII.  A LIGHT ON THE WATER


THE PARTS MEN PLAY.


CHAPTER I.

LADY DURWENT DECIDES ON A DINNER.


I.

His Majesty's postmen were delivering mail.  Through the gray grime of
a November morning that left a taste of rust in the throat, the
carriers of letters were bearing their cargo to all the corners of that
world which is called London.

There were letters from hospitals asking for funds; there were appeals
from sick people seeking admission to hospital.  There were long, legal
letters and little, scented letters lying wonderingly together in the
postman's bag.  There were notes from tailors to gentlemen begging to
remind them; and there were answers from gentlemen to their tailors, in
envelopes bearing the crests of Pall Mail clubs, hinting of temporary
embarrassment, but mentioning certain prospects that would shortly
enable them to . . . .

Fat, bulging envelopes, returning manuscripts with editors' regrets,
were on their way to poor devils of scribblers living in the altitude
of unrecognised genius and a garret.  There were cringing, fawning
epistles, written with a smirk and sealed with a scowl; some there were
couched in a refinement of cruelty that cut like a knife.

But, as unconcerned as tramps plying contraband between South America
and Mexico, His Majesty's postmen were delivering His Majesty's mail,
with never a thought of the play of human emotions lying behind the
sealed lips of an envelope.  Tongs made a clatter and clash; Miss
Shovel was dressed all in black (with a brooch); Mrs. Broom was in
blue (with a sash).

Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
And they all sang a song.

II.

"O Shovely so lovely!" the Poker he sang, "You have perfectly conquered
my heart.
Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong! If you're pleased with my song, I
will feed you with cold apple-tart.
When you scrape up the coals with a delicate sound, You enrapture
my life with delight, Your nose is so shiny, your head is so round,
And your shape is so slender and bright!
Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
Ain't you pleased with my song?"

III.

"Alas! Mrs. Broom," sighed the Tongs in his song, "Oh! is it because I'm
so thin, And my legs are so long,--ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!

-- That you don't care about me a pin?

Ah! fairest of creatures, when sweeping the room, Ah! why don't you
heed my complaint?
Must you needs be so cruel, you beautiful Broom, Because you are
covered with paint?

Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
You are certainly wrong."

IV.

Mrs.

Broom and Miss Shovel together they sang, "What nonsense you're singing
to-day!" Said the Shovel, "I'll certainly hit you a bang!" Said the
Broom, "And I'll sweep you away!" So the coachman drove homeward as
fast as he could, Perceiving their anger with pain; But they put
on the kettle, and little by little They all became happy again.

Ding-a-dong, ding-a-dong!
There's an end of my song.

THE TABLE AND THE CHAIR.

[Illustration]
I.

Said the Table to the Chair, "You can hardly be aware How I suffer
from the heat And from chilblains on my feet.

If we took a little walk, We might have a little talk; Pray let us take
the air," Said the Table to the Chair.

II.

Said the Chair unto the Table, "Now, you _know_ we are not able:
How foolishly you talk, When you know we _cannot_ walk!" Said the Table
with a sigh, "It can do no harm to try.
I've as many legs as you:
Why can't we walk on two?"

III.

So they both went slowly down, And walked about the town With a cheerful
bumpy sound As they toddled round and round; And everybody cried,
As they hastened to their side, "See!

the Table and the Chair Have come out to take the air!"

IV.

But in going down an alley, To a castle in a valley, They completely
lost their way, And wandered all the day; Till, to see them safely
back, They paid a Ducky-quack, And a Beetle, and a Mouse, Who took
them to their house.

[Illustration] 

V.

Then they whispered to each other, "O delightful little brother, What a
lovely walk we've taken!
Let us dine on beans and bacon." So the Ducky and the leetle
Browny-Mousy and the Beetle Dined, and danced upon their heads Till they
toddled to their beds.

[Illustration]
* * * * *

NONSENSE STORIES.

THE STORY OF THE FOUR LITTLE CHILDREN WHO WENT ROUND THE WORLD.

Once upon a time, a long while ago, there were four little people
whose names were 
[Illustration]
VIOLET, SLINGSBY, GUY, and LIONEL; and they all thought they should
like to see the world.

So they bought a large boat to sail quite round the world by sea,
and then they were to come back on the other side by land.

The boat was painted blue with green spots, and the sail was
yellow with red stripes: and, when they set off, they only
took a small Cat to steer and look after the boat, besides an
elderly Quangle-Wangle, who had to cook the dinner and make the
tea; for which purposes they took a large kettle.

[Illustration]
For the first ten days they sailed on beautifully, and found plenty to
eat, as there were lots of fish; and they had only to take them out
of the sea with a long spoon, when the Quangle-Wangle instantly
cooked them; and the Pussy-Cat was fed with the bones, with which
she expressed herself pleased, on the whole: so that all the party
were very happy.

During the daytime, Violet chiefly occupied herself in putting salt water
into a churn; while her three brothers churned it violently, in
the hope that it would turn into butter, which it seldom if ever
did; and in the evening they all retired into the tea-kettle, where
they all managed to sleep very comfortably, while Pussy and the
Quangle-Wangle managed the boat.

[Illustration]

After a time, they saw some land at a distance; and, when they came
to it, they found it was an island made of water quite surrounded by
earth.
Besides that, it was bordered by evanescent isthmuses, with a great
gulf-stream running about all over it; so that it was perfectly
beautiful, and contained only a single tree, 503 feet high.

When they had landed, they walked about, but found, to their great
surprise, that the island was quite full of veal-cutlets and
chocolate-drops, and nothing else.

So they all climbed up the single high tree to discover, if possible,
if there were any people; but having remained on the top of the tree
for a week, and not seeing anybody, they naturally concluded that
there were no inhabitants; and accordingly, when they came down, they
loaded the boat with two thousand veal-cutlets and a million
of chocolate-drops; and these afforded them sustenance for more
than a month, during which time they pursued their voyage with the
utmost delight and apathy.

[Illustration]
After this they came to a shore where there were no less than
sixty-five great red parrots with blue tails, sitting on a rail all of
a row, and all fast asleep.

And I am sorry to say that the Pussy-Cat and the Quangle-Wangle crept
softly, and bit off the tail-feathers of all the sixty-five parrots;
for which Violet reproved them both severely.

[Illustration]
Notwithstanding which, she proceeded to insert all the feathers--two
hundred and sixty in number--in her bonnet; thereby causing it to have
a lovely and glittering appearance, highly prepossessing and
efficacious.

[Illustration]

The next thing that happened to them was in a narrow part of the
sea, which was so entirely full of fishes that the boat could go
on no farther: so they remained there about six weeks, till they
had eaten nearly all the fishes, which were soles, and all ready-cooked,
and covered with shrimp-sauce, so that there was no trouble whatever.

And as the few fishes who remained uneaten complained of the cold,
as well as of the difficulty they had in getting any sleep on account
of the extreme noise made by the arctic bears and the tropical
turnspits, which frequented the neighborhood in great numbers,
Violet most amiably knitted a small woollen frock for several of
the fishes, and Slingsby administered some opium-drops to them;
through which kindness they became quite warm, and slept soundly.

[Illustration]
Then they came to a country which was wholly covered with immense
orange-trees of a vast size, and quite full of fruit.

So they all landed, taking with them the tea-kettle, intending to
gather some of the oranges, and place them in it.

But, while they were busy about this, a most dreadfully high wind
rose, and blew out most of the parrot-tail feathers from Violet's
bonnet.

That, however, was nothing compared with the calamity of the oranges
falling down on their heads by millions and millions, which thumped
and bumped and bumped and thumped them all so seriously, that they
were obliged to run as hard as they could for their lives; besides
that the sound of the oranges rattling on the tea-kettle was of the
most fearful and amazing nature.

[Illustration]

Nevertheless, they got safely to the boat, although considerably
vexed and hurt; and the Quangle-Wangle's right foot was so knocked
about, that he had to sit with his head in his slipper for at least
a week.

[Illustration]

This event made them all for a time rather melancholy: and perhaps
they might never have become less so, had not Lionel, with a most
praiseworthy devotion and perseverance, continued to stand on one
leg, and whistle to them in a loud and lively manner; which diverted
the whole party so extremely that they gradually recovered their
spirits, and agreed that whenever they should reach home, they would
subscribe towards a testimonial to Lionel, entirely made of gingerbread
and raspberries, as an earnest token of their sincere and grateful
infection.

[Illustration]

After sailing on calmly for several more days, they came to another
country, where they were much pleased and surprised to see a countless
multitude of white Mice with red eyes, all sitting in a great circle,
slowly eating custard-pudding with the most satisfactory and polite
demeanor.

[Illustration]

And as the four travellers were rather hungry, being tired of eating
nothing but soles and oranges for so long a period, they held a
council as to the propriety of asking the Mice for some of their
pudding in a humble and affecting manner, by which they could hardly
be otherwise than gratified.

It was agreed, therefore, that Guy should go and ask the Mice, which
he immediately did; and the result was, that they gave a walnut-shell
only half full of custard diluted with water.

Now, this displeased Guy, who said, "Out of such a lot of pudding
as you have got, I must say, you might have spared a somewhat larger
quantity."

But no sooner had he finished speaking than the Mice turned round
at once, and sneezed at him in an appalling and vindictive manner
(and it is impossible to imagine a more scroobious and unpleasant
sound than that caused by the simultaneous sneezing of many millions
of angry Mice); so that Guy rushed back to the boat, having first
shied his cap into the middle of the custard-pudding, by which means
he completely spoiled the Mice's dinner.

[Illustration]
By and by the four children came to a country where there were no
houses, but only an incredibly innumerable number of large bottles
without corks, and of a dazzling and sweetly susceptible blue color.

Each of these blue bottles contained a Blue-Bottle-Fly; and all
these interesting animals live continually together in the most
copious and rural harmony: nor perhaps in many parts of the world
is such perfect and abject happiness to be found.

Violet and Slingsby and Guy and Lionel were greatly struck with
this singular and instructive settlement; and, having previously
asked permission of the Blue-Bottle-Flies (which was most courteously
granted), the boat was drawn up to the shore, and they proceeded
to make tea in front of the bottles: but as they had no tea-leaves,
they merely placed some pebbles in the hot water; and the Quangle-Wangle
played some tunes over it on an accordion, by which, of course, tea
was made directly, and of the very best quality.

The four children then entered into conversation with the
Blue-Bottle-Flies, who discoursed in a placid and genteel manner,
though with a slightly buzzing accent, chiefly owing to the fact
that they each held a small clothes-brush between their teeth, which
naturally occasioned a fizzy, extraneous utterance.

"Why," said Violet, "would you kindly inform us, do you reside in
bottles; and, if in bottles at all, why not, rather, in green or
purple, or, indeed, in yellow bottles?"
To which questions a very aged Blue-Bottle-Fly answered, "We found
the bottles here all ready to live in; that is to say, our
great-great-great- great-great-grandfathers did: so we occupied
them at once.

And, when the winter comes on, we turn the bottles upside down, and
consequently rarely feel the cold at all; and you know very well that
this could not be the case with bottles of any other color than
blue."

"Of course it could not," said Slingsby.

"But, if we may take the liberty of inquiring, on what do you chiefly
subsist?"
"Mainly on oyster-patties," said the Blue-Bottle-Fly; "and, when these
are scarce, on raspberry vinegar and Russian leather boiled down to
a jelly."

"How delicious!" said Guy.

To which Lionel added, "Huzz!"

And all the Blue-Bottle-Flies said, "Buzz!"
At this time, an elderly Fly said it was the hour for the evening-song
to be sung; and, on a signal being given, all the Blue-Bottle-Flies
began to buzz at once in a sumptuous and sonorous manner, the
melodious and mucilaginous sounds echoing all over the waters, and
resounding across the tumultuous tops of the transitory titmice
upon the intervening and verdant mountains with a serene and sickly
suavity only known to the truly virtuous.

The Moon was shining slobaciously from the star-bespangled sky,
while her light irrigated the smooth and shiny sides and wings and
backs of the Blue-Bottle-Flies with a peculiar and trivial splendor,
while all Nature cheerfully responded to the cerulean and conspicuous
circumstances.

In many long-after years, the four little travellers looked back
to that evening as one of the happiest in all their lives; and it
was already past midnight when--the sail of the boat having been
set up by the Quangle-Wangle, the tea-kettle and churn placed in
their respective positions, and the Pussy-Cat stationed at the
helm--the children each took a last and affectionate farewell of
the Blue-Bottle-Flies, who walked down in a body to the water's
edge to see the travellers embark.

[Illustration]
As a token of parting respect and esteem, Violet made a courtesy quite
down to the ground, and stuck one of her few remaining parrot-tail
feathers into the back hair of the most pleasing of the Blue-Bottle-Flies;
while Slingsby, Guy, and Lionel offered them three small boxes,
containing, respectively, black pins, dried figs, and Epsom salts;
and thus they left that happy shore forever.

Overcome by their feelings, the four little travellers instantly
jumped into the tea-kettle, and fell fast asleep. But all along
the shore, for many hours, there was distinctly heard a sound
of severely-suppressed sobs, and of a vague multitude of living
creatures using their pocket-handkerchiefs in a subdued simultaneous
snuffle, lingering sadly along the walloping waves as the boat sailed
farther and farther away from the Land of the Happy
Blue-Bottle-Flies.

Nothing particular occurred for some days after these events, except
that, as the travellers were passing a low tract of sand, they
perceived an unusual and gratifying spectacle; namely, a large
number of Crabs and Crawfish--perhaps six or seven hundred--sitting
by the water-side, and endeavoring to disentangle a vast heap of
pale pink worsted, which they moistened at intervals with a fluid
composed of lavender-water and white-wine negus.

"Can we be of any service to you, O crusty Crabbies?" said the four
children.

"Thank you kindly," said the Crabs consecutively. "We are trying to
make some worsted mittens, but do not know how."

On which Violet, who was perfectly acquainted with the art of
mitten-making, said to the Crabs, "Do your claws unscrew, or are they
fixtures?"
"They are all made to unscrew," said the Crabs; and forthwith they
deposited a great pile of claws close to the boat, with which Violet
uncombed all the pale pink worsted, and then made the loveliest mittens
with it you can imagine. These the Crabs, having resumed and screwed
on their claws, placed cheerfully upon their wrists, and walked
away rapidly on their hind-legs, warbling songs with a silvery voice
and in a minor key.

After this, the four little people sailed on again till they came
to a vast and wide plain of astonishing dimensions, on which nothing
whatever could be discovered at first; but, as the travellers walked
onward, there appeared in the extreme and dim distance a single
object, which on a nearer approach, and on an accurately cutaneous
inspection, seemed to be somebody in a large white wig, sitting on
an arm-chair made of sponge-cakes and oyster-shells.

"It does not quite look like a human being," said Violet doubtfully;
nor could they make out what it really was, till the Quangle-Wangle
(who had previously been round the world) exclaimed softly in a
loud voice, "It is the co-operative Cauliflower!"

Lord Durwent glanced for courage at an ancestor who looked
magnificently down at him over a ruffle.  He adjusted his own cravat
and spoke in nicely modulated accents: 'Sybil, nothing can change me on
this point.  In spite of what you say, it is my intention to keep to
the tradition of the Durwents, and that is that the occupant of
Roselawn'----

'What! am not I his mother?' cried the good woman, her hysteria having
much the same effect on Lord Durwent's smoothly developing monologue as
a heavy pail dropped by a stage-hand during Hamlet's soliloquy.

'Sybil,' said Lord Durwent sternly, 'it was arranged at Malcolm's birth
that he should go to Eton.  I shall take him next Tuesday to a
preparatory school, and you must excuse me if I refuse to discuss the
matter further.'

Lady Durwent rushed from the room and clasped her eldest child in her
arms.  That young gentleman, not knowing what had caused his mother's
grief, sympathetically opened his throat and bellowed lustily, thereby
shedding tears for positively the last time in his life.

When he returned for the holidays a few months later, he was an
excellent example of that precocity, the English schoolboy, who cloaks
a juvenile mind with the pose of sophistication, and by twelve years of
age achieves a code of thought and conduct that usually lasts him for
the rest of his life.  In vain the mother strove for her place in the
sun; the rule of the masculine at Roselawn became adamant.

Life in the Durwent _ménage_ developed into a thing of laws and customs
dictated by the youthful despot, aided and abetted by his father.  The
sacred rites of 'what isn't done' were established, and the mother
gradually found herself in the position of an outsider--a privileged
outsider, it is true, yet little more than the breeder of a
thoroughbred, admitted to the paddock to watch his horse run by its new
owner.

She vented her feelings in two or three tearful scenes, but she felt
that they lacked spontaneity, and didn't really put her heart into them.

During these struggles for her place in a Society that was probably
more completely masculine in domination than any in the world (with the
possible exception of that of the Turk), Lady Durwent was only dimly
aware that her daughter was developing a personality which presented a
much greater problem than that of the easily grooved Malcolm.

The girl's hair was like burnished copper, and her cheeks were lit by
two bits of scarlet that could be seen at a distance before her
features were discernible.  Her eyes were of a gray-blue that changed
in shade with her swiftly varying moods.  Her lower lip was full and
red, the upper one firm and repressed with the dull crimson of a fading
rose-petal.  Her shapely arms and legs were restless, seemingly
impatient to break into some quickly moving dance.  She was
extraordinarily alive.  Vitality flashed from her with every gesture,
and her mind, a thing of caprice and whim, knew no boundaries but those
of imagination itself.

Puzzled and entirely unable to understand anything so instinctive, Lady
Durwent engaged a governess who was personally recommended by Lady
Chisworth, whose friend the Countess of Oxeter had told her that the
three daughters of the Duchess of Dulworth had all been entrusted to
her care.

In spite of this almost unexampled set of references, the governess was
completely unable to cope with Elise Durwent.  She taught her (among
other things) decorum and French.  Her pupil was openly irreverent
about the first; and when the governess, after the time-honoured
method, produced an endless vista of exceptions to the rule in French
grammar, the girl balked.  She was willing to compromise on _Avoir_,
but mutinied outright at the ramifications of _Être_.

Seeing that the child was making poor progress, and as it was out of
the question to dismiss a governess who had been entrusted with the
three daughters of the Duchess of Dulworth, Lady Durwent sent for
reinforcement in the person of the organist of their church, and bade
him teach Elise the art of the piano.  With the dull lack of vision
belonging to men of his type, he failed to recognise the spirit of
music lying in her breast, merely waiting the call to spring into life.
He knew that her home was one where music was unheard, and his method
of unfolding to the girl the most spiritual and fundamental of all the
arts was to give her SCALES.  He was a kindly, well-intentioned fellow,
and would not willingly have hurt a sparrow; but he took a nature
doomed to suffer for lack of self-expression, and succeeded in walling
up the great river of music which might have given her what she lacked.
He hid the edifice and offered her scaffolding--then wondered.


II.

Elise was consistent in few things, but her love for Richard, the
youngest of the family, was of a depth and a mature tenderness that
never varied.  Doomed to an insufficient will-power and an easy,
plastic nature that lent itself readily to the abbreviation 'Dick,' he
quickly succumbed to his fiery-tinted sister, and became a willing dupe
in all her escapades.

At her order he turned the hose on the head-gardener; when told to put
mucilage on the rector's chair at dinner, he merely asked for the pot.
On six different occasions she offered him soap, telling him it was
toffy, and each time he bit of it generously and without suspicion.
Every one else in the house represented law and order to him--Elise was
the spirit of outlawry, and he her slave.  She taught him a dance of
her own invention entitled 'The Devil and the Maiden' (with a certain
inconsistency casting him as the maiden and herself as the Devil), and
frequently, when ordered to go to bed, they would descend to the
servants' quarters and perform it to the great delight of the family
retainers.

A favourite haunt of theirs was the stables, where they would persuade
the grooms to place them on their father's chargers; and they were
frequent visitors at feeding-time, taking a never-ending delight in the
gourmandism of the whinnying beasts, and finding particular joy in
acquiring the language and the mannerisms of the stablemen, which they
would reserve for, and solemnly use at, the next gathering of the
neighbouring gentry.

When Elise was ten and Dick seven, she read him highwaymen's tales
until his large blue eyes almost escaped from their sockets.  It was at
the finish of one of these narratives of derring-do that she whispered
temptation into his ear, with the result that they bided their
opportunity, and, when the one groom on duty was asleep, repaired to
the stables armed with a loaded shot-gun.  After herculean efforts they
succeeded in harnessing Lord Durwent's famous hunter with the saddle
back to front, the curb-bit choking the horse's throat, the brow-band
tightly strapped around the poor beast's nostrils, the surcingle
trailing in the dust.

At first sight this may seem to conflict with what was said in Part I.,
chap. x. But there is no real inconsistency. As pointed out there,
there is no reason to think that Nature, left to herself, would ever
produce a universal language, or that a simpler language would win,
in a struggle with more complex ones, on account of its simplicity.

But this does not prevent there being a real natural tendency to
simplification--though in natural languages this tendency is constantly
thwarted, and can never produce its full effect.

How, then, is this tendency to simplification shown in the history of
Aryan (Indo-European) languages? For it must be emphasized that for the
purposes of this discussion history of language means history of
Aryan language.

The Aryan group of languages includes Sanskrit and its descendants in
the East, Greek, Latin, all modern Romance languages (French,
Italian, Spanish, etc.), all Germanic languages (English,
German, Scandinavian, etc.), all Slav languages (Russian, Polish,
etc.)--in fact, all the principal languages of Europe, except
Hungarian, Basque, and Finnish.
The main tendency of this group of languages has been, technically
speaking, to become analytic instead of synthetic--that is, to
abandon complex systems of inflection by means of case and verbal
endings, and to substitute prepositions and auxiliaries.

Thus, taking Latin as the type of old synthetic Aryan language, its
declension of nouns and conjugation of verbs present an enormously
greater complexity of forms than are employed by English, the most
advanced of the modern analytical languages, to express the same grammatical
relations.

For example:

Nom. mensa = a table. mensae = tables.
Acc. mensam = a table. mensas = tables.
Gen. mensae = of a table mensarum = of tables.
Dat. mensae = to or for a mensis = to or for tables.
table.

Abl. mensa = by, with, or mensis = by, with, or from from a table.
tables.

By the time you have learnt these various Latin case endings (_-a_,
_-am_, _-ae_, _-ae_, _-a_; _-ae_, _-as_, _-arum_, _-is_, _-is_), you
have only learnt one out of many types of declension. Passing on to
the second Latin type or declension, e.g. _dominus_ = master, you have
to learn a whole fresh set of case endings (_-us_, _-um_, _-i_,
_-o_, _-o_; _-i_, _-os_, _-orum_, _-is_, _-is_) to express the same
grammatical relations; whereas in English you apply the same set
of prepositions to the word "master" without change, except for a uniform
_-s_ in the plural. As there are a great many types of Latin noun, the
simplification in English, effected by using invariable prepositions
without inflection, is very great.

It is just the same with the verb.
Take the English regular verb "to love": the four forms _love_, _loves_,
_loving_, _loved_, about exhaust the number of forms to be learned
(omitting the second person singular, which is practically dead); the
rest is done by auxiliaries, which are the same for each verb.
Latin, on the other hand, possesses very numerous forms of the verb,
and the whole set of numerous forms varies for each type of verb.

In the aggregate the simplification in English is enormous. This
process of simplification is common to all the modern Aryan languages,
but they have not all made equal progress in carrying it out.

Now, it is a remarkable fact, and a very suggestive one for those who
seek to trace the connexion between the course of a nation's
language and its history, that the degree of progress made by the
languages of Europe along their common line of evolution does on
the whole, as a matter of historical fact, correspond with the
respective degree of material, social, and economic advancement
attained by the nations that use them.

Take this question of case endings. Russia has retained a high degree
of inflection in her language, having seven cases with distinct endings.
These seven cases are common to the Slav languages in general; two of
them (Sorbish and Slovenish) have, like Gothic and Greek, a dual
number, a feature which has long passed away from the languages
of Western Europe.

Again, the Slav tongues decline many more of the numerals than most Aryan
languages. Germany, which, until the recent formation of the
German Empire, was undoubtedly a century slow by West European time,
still has four cases; or, in view of the moribund dative, should
we rather say three and a half?

France and England manage their affairs in a universal nominative[1]
(if one can give any name to a universal case), as far as nouns,
adjectives, and articles are concerned. Their pronouns offer the sole
survival of declension by case endings. Here France, the runner-up,
is a trifle slow in the possession of a real, live dative case of
the pronoun (acc. _le_, _la_, _les_; dat. _lui_, _leur_). England wins
by a neck with one universal oblique case (_him_, _her_, _them_).
This insidious suggestion is not meant to endanger the _entente cordiale_;
even perfidious Albion would not convict the French nation of
arrested development on the side-issue of pronominal atavism.

Mark Twain says he paid double for a German dog, because he bought
it in the dative case; but no nation need be damned for a dative.

We have no use for the _coup de Jarnac_

.

[1]Though historically, of course, the Low Latin universal case,
from which many French, and therefore English, words are derived,
was the accusative.

But consider the article. Here, if anywhere, is a test of the power of a
language to move with the times. For some reason or other (the real
underlying causes of these changes in language needs are obscure) modern
life has need of the article, though the highly civilized Romans did
very well without it. So strong is this need that, in the middle ages,
when Latin was used as an international language by the learned, a
definite article (_hic_ or to') was foisted into the language. How is
it with the modern world? The Slavs have remained in this matter at the
point of view of the ancient world. They are articleless.

Germany has a cumbrous three-gender, four-case article; France rejoices
in a two-gender, one-case article with a distinct form for the plural.
The ripe product of tendency, the infant heir of the eloquent ages,
to whose birth the law of Aryan evolution groaned and travailed
until but now, the most useful, if not the "mightiest," monosyllable
"ever moulded by the lips of man," the "the," one and indeclinable,
was born in the Anglo-Saxon mouth, and sublimed to its unique
simplicity by Anglo-Saxon progress.

The general law of progress in language could be illustrated equally
well from the history of genders as exhibited in various languages.

We are here only dealing with Aryan languages, but, merely by way of
illustration, it may be mentioned that a primitive African language
offers seven "genders," or grammatical categories requiring
the same kind of concords as genders.

In Europe we pass westward from the three genders of Germany, curving
through feminine and masculine France (_place aux dames!_) to monogendric
Britain. Only linguistic arbitrary gender is here referred to; this
has nothing to do with suffragettes or "defeminization."
Again, take agreement of adjectives. In the ancient world, whether Greek,
Latin, Gothic, or Anglo-Saxon, adjectives had to follow nouns through
all the mazes of case and number inflection, and had also to agree in
gender. In this matter German has gone ahead of French, in that its
adjectives do not submit to change of form in order to indicate
agreement, when they are used predicatively (e.g.

"ein gut_er_ Mann"; "der gut_e_ Mann"; but "der Mann ist gut"). But English
has distanced the field, and was alone in at the death of the old
concords, which moistened our childhood's dry Latin _with_ tears.

Whatever test be applied, the common tendency towards simplification,
from synthesis to analysis, is there; and in its every manifestation
English has gone farthest among the great literary languages.

It is necessary to add this qualification--"among the great literary
languages"--because, in this process of simplification, English has a
very curious rival, and possibly a superior, in the _Taal_ of
South Africa. The curious thing is that a local dialect should have
shown itself so progressive, seeing that the distinctive note of
most dialects is conservatism, their chief characteristics being
local survivals.[1] It is probable that the advanced degree of
simplification attained by the Taal is the result of deliberate and
conscious adaptation of their language by the original settlers to
the needs of the natives.

Just as Englishmen speak Pidgin-English to coolies in the East, so
the old trekkers must have removed irregularities and concords from
their Dutch, so that the Kaffirs could understand it.

If this is so, it is another illustration of the essential feature that
an international language must possess. Even the Boer farmers, under the
stress of practical necessity, grasped the need of simplification.

[1]Of course a difference must be expected between a dialect spoken
by a miscellaneous set of settlers in a foreign land and one in use as
an indigenous growth from father to son. But the _habitants_, as the
French settlers in Quebec are called, who, like the Boers, are mainly
a pastoral and primitive people, have retained an antiquated form of
French, with no simplification.

The natural tendency towards elimination of exceptions is also
strongly marked in the speech of the uneducated.

Miss Loane, who has had life-long experience of nursing work among
the poorest classes in England, tabulates (_The Queen's Poor_, p. 112)
the points in which at the present day the language of the poor differs
from that of the middle and upper classes. Under the heading of grammar
she singles out specially superabundance of negatives, and then
proceeds: "Other grammatical errors. These are nearly all on the lines
of simplification.

It is correct to say 'myself, herself, yourself, ourselves.' Very
well:
let us complete the list with 'hisself' and 'theirselves.' Most verbs
are regular: why not all? Let us say 'comed' and 'goed,' 'seed' and
'bringed' and 'teached.'" Miss Loane probably exaggerates with her
"nearly all." For instance, as regards the uneducated form of the
past tense of "to come," surely "come" is a commoner form than
"comed."

Similarly the illiterate for "I did" is "I done," not "I doed,"
which would be the regular simplification.

But the natural tendency is certainly there, and it is strong.

Precisely the same tendency is observable in the present development
of literary languages. They have all inherited many irregular verbal
conjugations from the past as part of their national property,
and these, by the nature of the case, comprise most of the commonest
words in the language, because the most used is the most subject
to abbreviation and modification.

But these irregular types of inflection have long been dead, in the
sense that they are fossilized survivals, incapable of propagating
their kind.

When a new word is admitted into the language, it is conjugated
regularly. Thus, though we still say "I go--I went; I run--I ran,"
because we cannot help ourselves, when we are free to choose we say,
"I cycle--I cycled; I wire--I wired"; just as the French say
"télégraphier," and not "télégraphir," -oir, or -re.

Considering the strength of this stream of natural tendency, it seems
a most natural thing to start again, for international purposes,
with a form of simplified Aryan language, and, being free from the
dead hand of the past, to set up the simplest forms of conjugation,
etc., and make every word in the language conform to them.

Indeed, this question of artificial simplification of language has of
late years emerged from the scholar's study and become a matter of
practical politics, even as regards the leading national languages.
Within the last few years there have been official edicts in France
and Germany, embodying reforms either in spelling or grammar, with
the sole object of simplifying. The latest attempt at linguistic
jerrymandering has been the somewhat autocratic document of President
Roosevelt.

He has found that there are limits to what the American people will
stand even from him, and it seems likely to remain a dead letter.

But there is not the smallest doubt that the English language is
heavily handicapped by its eccentric vowel pronunciation and
its spelling that has failed to keep pace with the development of
the language. The same is true, though in a lesser degree, of the
spelling and pronunciation of French.
Since the whole theory of spelling--and, until a few hundred years ago,
its practice too--consisted in nothing else but an attempt to represent
simply and accurately the spoken word, most unprejudiced people would
admit that simplification is in principle advisable. But the practical
difficulties in the way of simplification of a national language are
almost prohibitive. It is hard to see that there are any such
obstacles in the way of the adoption of a simple and perfectly
phonetic international artificial language.

We dislike change because it is change, and new things because they are
new. We go on suffering from a movable Easter, which most practically
inconveniences great numbers of people and interests, and seems to
benefit no one at all, simply because it is no one's business to change
it.

If once the public could be got to examine seriously the case for an
artificial international language, they could hardly fail to
recognize what an easy, simple, and _natural_ thing it is, and how soon
it would pay off all capital sunk in its universal adoption, and be
pure profit.

NOTE
This seems the best place to deal with a criticism of Esperanto which
has an air of plausibility.

It is urged that Esperanto does not carry the process of simplification
far enough, and that in two important points it shows a retrograde
tendency to revert to a more primitive stage of language, already
left behind by the most advanced natural languages.

  These points are:

(1) The possession of an accusative case.
(2) The agreement of adjectives.

  Now, it must be borne
  in mind that the business of a universal language is, not to
  adhere pedantically to any philological theory,
  not to make a
  fetish of principle,
  not to strive after any theoretical perfection in the observance
  of certain laws of construction, but--simply to be easy.

  The principle of simplification is an admirable one, because it
furthers this end, and for this reason only.

  The moment it ceases to do so, it must give way before a
  higher canon, which demands that an international language
  shall offer the
  greatest ease, combined with efficiency, for the greatest number.

      The fact that a scientific study of language reveals a strong natural
tendency towards simplification, and that this tendency has in
certain languages assumed certain forms, is not in itself a proof
that an artificial language is bound to follow the historical lines
of evolution in every detail.

It will follow them just so far as, and no farther than, they conduce to
its paramount end--greatest ease for greatest number, plus maximum
of efficiency.

In constructing an international language, the question then becomes,
in each case that comes up for decision: How far does the proposed
simplification conduce to ease without sacrificing efficiency?

Does the cost of retention (reckoned in terms of sacrifice of ease) of
the unsimplified form outweigh the advantages (reckoned in terms
of efficiency) it confers, and which would be lost if it was
simplified out of existence?

Let us then examine briefly the two points criticised, remembering
that the main function of the argument from history of language is,
not to deduce therefrom hard-and-fast rules for the construction
of international language, but to remove the unreasoning prejudice
of numerous objectors, who cannot pardon the international language
for being "artificial," i.e. consciously simplified

.

(1) _The Accusative Case_
This is formed in Esperanto by adding the letter _-n_.

This one form is universal for nouns, adjectives, and pronouns
singular and plural.

Ex.:

Nom.

_bona patro_ (good father), plural, _bonaj patroj_.
Acc. _bonan patron_ " _bonajn patrojn_.

Suppose one were to suppress this _-n_.

(_a_) Cost of retention of unsimplified form: Remembering to add this
_-n_.

(_b_) Advantages of retention: The flexibility of the language is
enormously increased; the words can be put in any order without obscuring
or changing the sense.
That lady was wearing a yellow gown rather too tight for her, so that
her somewhat ample flesh slightly overran the confines of the garment,
giving the effect that she had grown up in the thing and was unable to
shed it.  This impression was heightened by a mannerism, repeated
frequently during the evening, of grasping her very low bodice with her
hands, exhausting her breath, pulling the bodice up, and compressing
herself into it.  It was an innocent enough performance, but invariably
left the feeling that she should retire upstairs to do it.

She wore a yellow flower in her hair; her stockings were a rich yellow
with a superimposed pattern like strands of fine gold, and her dainty
feet were enclosed in a pair of bronzed shoes.  As her lips were
heavily carmined and her eyes brilliantly dark, Madame Carlotti's was a
distinctly illuminating presence.

But the sunniness of her entrance was dimmed by the lack of audience.
She had not expended her genius to throw it away on a strangely dressed
young man whose hair fell straight and black over a large collar that
had earned a holiday some days before, and whose velvet jacket was
minus two buttons, the threads of which could still be seen,
out-stretched, appealing for their owners' return.

'Lucia, my dear,' said Lady Durwent, just like an ordinary hostess,
'you look' (_sotto voce_) 'simply wonderful!  I think you have met Mr.
Norton Pyford, _the_ Norton Pyford, haven't you?'

'Hah d' ye do?' said the Pyford.

'Chairmed,' minced Madame Carlotti.

'Lucia, take this chair by the fire.  You must be frozen.'

'Ah, _grazie_, Sybil.  What a perfectly meeserable climate you have in
this London!'

'Just what I tha-a-y,' bleated Mr. Pyford, sinking into his chair in an
apparently boneless heap.  'The other night, at a fella's
thupper-party, I'----

'MRS. LE ROY JENNINGS.'

The resolutionist swept into the room clothed in black disorder, much
as if she had started to dress in a fit of temper and had been
overtaken by a gale.

She knew Madame Carlotti.--She did _not_ know Mr. Norton Pyford, _the_
Norton Pyford.--She was glad to know him.

He muttered something inarticulate, and glancing at the ring of women
about him, shrank into his clothes until his collar almost hid his
lower lip.

'We were discussing,' said Lady Durwent, vaguely relying on the last
sounds retained by her ear--'discussing--suppers.'

'Don't believe in 'em,' said Mrs. Jennings sternly; 'three regular
meals--tea at eleven and four, and hot milk with a bit of ginger in it
before retiring--are sufficient for any one.'

The Italian took in the forceful figure of the New Woman and smiled
with her teeth.

'Madame Jennings,' she said, 'perhaps finds sufficient distraction in
just ordinary life--and _una tazza di tè_.  But we who are not
so--_comment dirai-je?_--so self-complete must rely on frivolous things
like _una buona cena_.'

'Don't believe in 'em,' reiterated the resolutionist; 'three
regular'----

'_Ah, c'est mauvais_,' gesticulated Madame Carlotti, who alternated
between Italian and French phrases in London, and kept her best English
for the Continent.

'Mr. Pyford,' put in Lady Durwent, descrying a storm on the yellow and
black horizon, 'has just written'----

'MR. H. STACKTON DUNCKLEY,' announced the butler, with an appropriate
note of _mysterioso_.  Lady Durwent summoned a blush, and rose to meet
the ardent author, who was dressed in a characterless evening suit with
disconsolate legs, and whose chin was heavily powdered to conceal the
stubble of beard grown since morning.

'You have come,' she said softly and dramatically.

'I have,' said the writer, bowing low over her hand.

'I rely on you to be discreet,' she murmured.

'Eh?'

'Discreet,' she coquetted.  'People will talk.'

'Let them,' said Mr. Dunckley earnestly.

'Madame Carlotti, I think you know Mr. Dunckley--H. Stackton
Dunckley--and you too, Mrs. Le Roy Jennings; you clever people ought to
be friends at once.--And I want you to meet Mr. Pyford, _the_'----

'Hah d'ye do?'

'How are you?'

'Ro--splendid, thanks.'

'We were discussing,' said Lady Durwent--'discussing'----

'MR. AUSTIN SELWYN.'

Every one turned to see the guest of the evening, as the hostess rose
to meet him.  He was a young man on the right side of thirty, with
dark, closely brushed hair that thinned slightly at the temples.  He
was clean-shaven, and his light-brown eyes lay in a smiling setting of
quizzical good-humour.  He was of rather more than medium height, with
well-poised shoulders; and though a firmness of lips and jaw gave a
suggestion of hardness, the engaging youthfulness of his eyes and a
hearty smile that crinkled the bridge of his nose left a pleasant
impression of frankness, mingled with a certain _naïveté_.

'Mr. Selwyn,' said Lady Durwent, 'I knew you would want to meet some of
London's--I should say some of England's--accomplished people.'

'_Oimè_!  I am afraid that obleeterates me,' smiled Madame Carlotti,
whose social charm was rising fast at the sight of a good-looking
stranger.

'No, indeed, Lucia,' effused the hostess.  'To be the personification
of Italy in dreary London is more than an accomplishment; it--it'----

'It is a boon,' said Dunckley, coming to the aid of his floundering
loved one.

'Exactly,' said Lady Durwent with a sigh of relief.  'Madame Lucia
Carlotti--Mr. Selwyn of New York.'

'_Buona sera, signora_.'

'_Buona sera, signore_.'

He stooped low and pressed a light kiss on the Neapolitan's hand, thus
taking the most direct route obtainable by an Anglo-Saxon to the good
graces of a woman of Italy.

'How well you speak Italian!' cooed Madame Carlotti; 'so--like one of
us.'

The American bowed.  It was rarely he achieved a reputation with so
little effort.

The remaining introductions were effected; the clock struck
eight-thirty; and there followed an awkward silence, born of an
absolute unanimity of thought.

'Of course, you two authors,' said Lady Durwent, forcing a smile, 'knew
of each other, anyway.  It's like asking H. G. Wells if he ever heard
of Mark Twain.'

The smile in the American's eyes widened.  'Lady Durwent flatters me,'
he said.  'I am not widely known in my own country, and can hardly
expect that you should know of me on this side of the Atlantic.'

'What,' said Mr. Dunckley--'what does New York think of "Precipitate
Thoughts"?'

The American considered quickly.  He wished that in conversation, as
well as in writing, people would use inverted commas.

'Whose precipitate thoughts?' he ventured.

'Mine,' said H. S. D., with ill-concealed importance.

'Oh yes, of course,' said Selwyn, wondering how any one so stationary
as the other could project anything precipitate.  'New York was keenly
interested.'

'Ah,' said the English author benignly, 'it is satisfactory to hear
that.  Of course, the great difference between there and here is that
in New York one impresses: in London one is impressed.'

An ominous silence followed this epigrammatic wisdom (which Dunckley
had just heard from the lips of a poet who had succeeded in writing
both an American and an English publishing house into bankruptcy) while
the various members of the group pursued their trains of thought along
the devious routes of their different mentalities.

'Dear me!' said Lady Durwent anxiously, 'what _can_ have detained'----

'MR. JOHNSTON SMYTH.'

With a jerky action of the knees, the futurist briskly entered the room
with all the easy confidence of a famous comedian following on the
heels of a chorus announcing his arrival.  He looked particularly long
and cadaverous in an abrupt, sporting-artistic, blue jacket, with
sleeves so short that when he waved his arms (which he did with almost
every sentence) he reminded one of a juggler requesting his audience to
notice that he has absolutely nothing up his sleeves.

'Lady Durwent,' he exclaimed, striking an attitude and looking over his
Cyrano-like nose with his right eye as if he were aligning the sights
of a musket, 'don't tell me I'm late.  If you do, I shall never speak
to the Duke of Earldub again--never!'

As he refused to move an inch until assured that he was not late, and
as Lady Durwent was anxious to proceed with the main business of the
evening (to say nothing of maintaining the friendship between Smyth and
the Duke of Earldub, whose part in his dilatory arrival was rather
vague), she granted the necessary pardon, whereupon he straightened his
legs and winked long and solemnly at Norton Pyford.

'Good gracious!' cried Lady Durwent just as she was about to suggest an
exodus to the dining-room, 'I had forgotten all about Elise!'  She
hurriedly rang the bell, which was answered by the butler.  'Send word
to Miss Elise that'----

'Milady,' said the servitor, addressing an arc-light just over the
door, 'she is descending the stairs this very minute.'


III.

There are moments when women appear at their best--fleeting moments
that cannot be sustained.  Sometimes it is a tremor of timidity that
lends a fawn-like gentleness to their movements, and a frightened
wistfulness to the eye, too subtle a thing of beauty to bear analysis
in words.  A sudden triumph, noble or ignoble, the conquering of a
rival, the sound of a lover's voice, will flush the cheek and liberate
the whole radiancy of a woman's being.  [2]This is explained in
relation III.,, chap. i.,_q.v._ X CAN conscious THE EVOLUTION OF AN
INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE BE LEFT TO THE PROCESS OF NATURAL SELECTION BY
FREE COMPETITION?" You base your argument for an international mainly
on the operation of economical laws. Be consistent, then; leave the
matter to Nature.

By unlimited competition masses, whereas the Greek controversy affects
the it must surely be adopted. The world wants to be saved labour. It
never pays permanently to do things a longer way, if the shorter one
produces equally good results. No few at top; but otherwise the issue
at stake is essentially the same.

In both cases the bedrock of the problem is this grind, which is on the
whole feeling unprofitable to them and not attain its object of conferring
culture, in order to uphold the traditional the best language is there
bound to be evolved and come to the top in the struggle for life.

Let the fittest survive, and do n't bother about Esperanto." On a first
hearing this Englishman sounds fairly plausible, yet it is honeycombed
with error.

In the first place, it proves too much. The same argument could be adduced
for the abandonment of effort of all kind whatever to improve upon
Nature and her processes." You can walk and run and swim. Do n't bother
to invent boats and bicycles, trains and aeroplanes, that will
bring you more into touch with other peoples. Let Nature evolve the
best form of international locomotion of this variety she and
evolves certain prevailing types.

But these types differ widely within the limits slight of the world
under varying conditions of environment.

What we their way to learn national ones which would have awakened
scholarly instincts in them.

The cause of culture would thus sustain some real hurt it. The
question is another phase--a wider and lower-grade phase--of the great
compulsory Greek, in spite of difference of environment. Again language
materially helps one people as against another, or even that the best
race evolves the best language.[1] Take the last mentioned. If there
is one people on the face modern mind the language may have outlived
its putative father, but its reputation has not improved, so far
as ease is concerned.

Yet who will say that it has impaired national efficiency?[1]Greece
went down before Rome. Which was the better race, meaning by"better" the
more capable of imposing its and manners babel on the world? Yet who
doubts better language? The fact is, that for purposes of transaction
of affairs by those who speak it as a mother tongue, one language
is about as good as another. Whether it survives or spreads depends,
not upon its intrinsic qualities as a language, but upon the happening
of the race that speaks it.[1] There is, therefore, no presumption that
the best or the most suitable or the easiest language will, with profit
to the students. The second type it hopes to leave wholly intact
lips of men.

This is one justification for the application of new artificial reforms
to language and spelling, which tend no longer to move naturally
with the times as heretofore[1]A curious phenomenon of our day
suggests a possible partial exception.

In Switzerland French is steadily encroaching and bearing back
German.

Is this owing to the intrinsic qualities of French language and
civilization?

Materially, the Germans have the greater expansive power. to explain
to them that they would be aided in their study of languages
language, but the influence and general capacity of the rival
backers.

Of course a very bad or hard woman artificial language would not
prevail against INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE ON AESTHETIC as and GROUNDS
of the commonest arguments had that advocates of a universal language
have to face runs something like this:" Yes, there really does seem
be something in what you say--your language may save time and money
and grease the wheels of business; but, after all, we are not all
business men, nor are we all out after dollars.

Just think what a dull The tongues of men are as stately trees, set
deep in the you black, mouldering soil of the past, and rich with
its secular decay their natural capacities to the utmost and bowed
making them useful and agreeable members of society does not lie
in making all alike swallow, because, being easy and one, it is a
means that more people can grasp and employ.

In fact, it is in this field.

The leaves are the words of the people, old yet ever new, and the
flowers are the nation's poems, drawing their life from the thousand
tiny roots that twist and twine unseen."

Again, Nature does not tend towards uniformity delights and toil
in the glare of the world at raising a mushroom growth on a dull,
featureless plain that reaches everywhither.

Modern Macbeths I think you must effort saved for some more remunerative
purpose."'One is God's handiwork, the other a absenting man's toy.'
I should have said the first was man's lip-work, but I see what you
mean., sophisticated by your modernity and adding perverted instinct
to crime, you are murdering not sleep, but dreams--dreams that
when haunt about the mouldering lodges of the past, and soften. You as
must compare like with like. is unscientific and a confusion of
thought to change the subject-matter of a man's shall' of his time
on grounds the contact with reality by lending their own colouring
atmosphere.

You are hammering the last nail into the coffin of the old leisurely
past, the past that raised the cathedrals, to which taste and feeling
were of supreme moment, and when man put something of himself
into his every wash."

The man must be indeed dull of soul who cannot join in a dirge
for the of the vanishing past. Turn where we may now, we find the same
railways, the same trams, music-halls, coats. and trousers. The mad
rush of modernity with its levelling tendency really is killing off
what is quaint, you_are_. The universal ability to use many other
things--but especially universal education. And the verdict can be, at
the most, justifiable, or at any rate inevitable, pasticide. an overdose
of foreign languages during the acquisitive years of youth. By doing so,
vast waste is caused, taking the world round. As to the attainment
of the object of this first type of language study, not only is
it as efficiently secured by You cannot eat your cake and have it;
you cannot kill off all the bad things and keep all the good ones.

With sterilization goes purification, pasticide may be accompanied
by pasteurization. At any rate," the old order changeth," and you've got
to let it change. The whole history of the"progress" of the
world, meaning often material progress, is eloquent of the lesson that
it is vain to set artificial limits to advancing invention.

The substitution of cheap mechanical processes of manufacture for
hand-work gravest ground, are dissatisfied with the literary men
and scholars, and may be presented as follows:" Language formation is
precious, and worthy of study, inasmuch as it enshrines the imperishable
monuments of the thought and genius of the race of complete indifference.
Back comes the old statement in one form or another, a copper from
the. When Greek is no longer bolstered up by the protection of
compulsion, some on whose lips it was born.

The study of the words and forms in which a nation type which has already
largely replaced it, and which will replace it wind for good or evil,
but ever more swiftly and surely.

But no well-judging person proposes on that account to forgo of
the material advantages conferred upon mankind by the invention of
machinery. If the world rejects, on sentimental grounds, the
labour-saving invention of international language, it will be flying
in the face of economic history, and be classed as aesthetic, but
which differs somewhat from the one just discussed. It emanates, the
argument confuses a sub-characteristic with an organism.

A language is not an organism, but one of the characteristics of No
one of them yield him a greater advantage than the others in his
struggle for life, or helps him particularly to perform the functions
of horsiness. Just in the same way a man may be equally well equipped
with all the qualities that make for success, whether he speaks
English or French, Russian or Japanese. It cannot be shown that
chiefly from clothed the its thoughts throws many a ray of light
on than phases of the evolution of the race itself, which would
otherwise have remained dark.

The history of a language and literature is some measure an concentrate
of the history of a people. We miss all these points of interest in
your artificial language, and we shall, therefore, refuse to study
it, and here by commit it to the devil."

This is a particularly humiliating type of answer to receive, because
it implies that one is an ass. In truth the man who should invent an
artificial language and invite the world to study it for itself
would be a fool, and a very swell-headed fool at that.

Time's up! I have missed my after-lunch, of out of the way, and
racy of the soil.

But why visit the sins of modernity upon an international language?

The last sentence of the indictment itself suggests the line of
defence."

You are hammering the last nail into the coffin of the old, leisurely
past...." Quite so walk, and I expect only hardened your heart."
Yours,"----."

And I had!

XII WILL AN INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE DISCOURAGE THE STUDY OF MODERN
LANGUAGES, AND THUS BE DETRIMENTAL TO CULTURE?

--PARALLEL WITH THE QUESTION OF; or which it may be met, to give
some extracts from a scholar's letter, and the It writer's answer.

The letter is fairly are seeking to, establish is world-wide uniformity
out of of this kind of opposition, and the way in As regards free
competition between studying one language or the other." departments
of study) want standardizing typical."

MY DEAR----," Many thanks for your long missive on Esperanto....
According to the books, Esperanto can be learnt quickly by any one.

This means that they will it quite as rapidly; for what is easily
acquired is soon forgotten....

In my humble opinion in a few hours. One is God's man. After the lapse
of countless ages there are grey horses and black, bay and chestnut,
presumably because greyness and blackness and the rest are incidental
characteristics of a horse. handiwork, and the other a babu's toy.
Personally, any living language interests me more Esperanto. I am sorry
I am such a heretic, but I fear my love for the English language carries
me away...." Yours ever,"----." The points that rankle are
artificiality and lack of a history.

_Reply. The question is, but Mr. Is it an efficient one? If so, one
has that the results produced by a universal language will not be just
as good_for many purposes_[ 1] as those produced by national
languages.

That the results are more economically produced an surely does not admit
of doubt cultural language-study. They act and react upon each other.
There.[1]And those of the globe who rejoice in an impossible
language, it is the Japanese.

In the early days of foreign intercourse a good Jesuit father
reported that the Japanese were courteous and polite to strangers,
but their language was plainly the invention of a universal language,
but far more so.

_Ex hypothesi_ the object is utilitarian; the language is a means. Well,
a universal language is a better means than a national one--first,
because, being universal, it is a to more; secondly the devil.

To a very important ones, relatively to man's whole field of activity.'
Personally, any living speech interests me more than Esperanto.'

Of course it does. So it does me and most sensible people. But what
efficiency of the alternative involved untold misery to many, and
incidentally led to the disappearance of the digamma does it matter
an auxiliary language on occasion rounds off and finish the levelling
process.

But the old leisurely past will not be any the less dead, or any the
less effectually buried, if one portion of the human race, especially
in the big empires and the smaller states Europe a type of character
which the world could ill afford to, and which we, and disclaims
any attempt to interfere with it in any way.

How far is this possible? The answer depends mainly upon the, but
soon deep, and all gained from experience, and not from books or
technical nail is not driven home in the coffin.

The slayer an easy one. But beyond Durwent a certain point of ease a
universal usage cannot go( ease meaning the ease of all), and that
extent has probably been about reached now. Between future schemes
there will be As such a mere fractional difference in respect of ease,
that competition becomes altogether beside the point.

The thing is to take an easy. one and stick to it. X I OBJECTIONS TO AN
is modernity at large, made up of science, steam, democracy,
universal education, and to Esperanto whether we are interested in
it or not?

It ca is not there to interest us.

The question is, Does it, or not, save us to see that we think there
is certain felt want, amongst countless numbers of persons, which is
much more efficiently and economically met by a neutral,,
international language, than by any national one.

That is the position you have, an Englishman who knows French and
German would do much better to devote any extra time at his disposal
to the study of his own language, which, I repeat, is one of the
most delicate mediums of communication now in existence.

It has taken centuries to construct, while Esperanto was apparently
created got to controvert, if are seriously to weaken the argument
in favour of an international language.

If you say that it is not a want felt by many people, I can only say, at
the risk of being dogmatic, that you are wrong.

I happen to know that it is.[1] The question then is, Is there an
easy way of meeting that want? And the equally certain and well-grounded
answer Mr. is, There is....[1] I have before me a list" MY DEAR----,"
I really ca n't put it any more plainly, so must just repeat it:
we are not trying to introduce a language that has any interest be
for anybody in wise as an indifferent means, a universal artificial
language offers no substitute at all.

This end is not on its programme. Why, then, should any of students
who are at present shut out by the Greek tariff. Another barrier against
modernity will go down, and itself. An international language is a
labour-saving device German would do much better to devote any of 119
societies, representing many different lines of work and play and many
nations, who had already in 1903 given in their adhesion to a falsehood
for" an international to language. Technical terms alone( in
all It seems in vain to point this out to persons was who use the
above argument that do repay study by the introduction of idea,
and an international language affords the best means.

The number of societies is now( 1907) over 270."

As to your argument that what is easy is see that, neither in
practice nor in principle, does it or should it make for choosing
the harder way of arriving at a given result.

Chance the forgetting, if necessary re-learning as required, and use the
time and more easily forgotten--it is true.

But It is God working through his creature's natural development.

The same is equally true of all man's'toys.' Man moulded his language in
pursuance of his ends under God. Under the, same guidance he moulded
the steam engine',, drab uniformity your scheme would lay over the
lands like a pall. By the removal of natural barriers you are aiding and
abetting the vulgarization of the world. You are or others unprofitable
labour on a large scale?

Neither you nor most sane persons are probably particularly
interested in shorthand or Morse codes or any signalling systems.

Yet they bear up." Do try doing what in you lies to eliminate the
racy the local, the picturesque. the typewriter, shorthand, the
semaphore, and all kinds of signals.

What are the philosophical_differentia_ that make Esperanto a toy, and
natural language God's handiwork? Apparently the fact that
Esperanto is'artificial,' i.e. consciously produced by art. If this is
the criterion, beware lest you damn man's works wholesale. If this
is not. She produces an infinity of variety in the individual, and out
about the lives and battle of bygone men. You are it will not appreciably
retard the disappearance of the picturesque. There is Mr. another
type of argument which may also calling to us to come forth from
the cool seclusion of these trees' shade, to leave their the
criterion, what is?"'

An Englishman who knows French and_ extra time at his disposal to the
study of his own language.' Yes--if give object is to qualify as an
artist in language.

No--if his object is to save time here and trouble in communicating
with foreigners other than those fairly intercomparable.

You have dictated as to how a man should employ his time by and really
is some ground for anxiety, lest the provision of facilities for
learning an easy artificial language at your door may prevent people
from going question at Oxford and Cambridge. It affects the system in
the interests of the changing his object in employing his time.

This makes the whole discussion irrelevant, in so far as it
of technical pedagogics or psychology.

There is very good reason, from the standpoint of these sciences, a to
believe that a study of a simple_type-tongue_ would, on the contrary,
pay for itself in increased facility in learning other languages.

But this is more fully discussed in the chapter for an easy international
language, because many commentaries, etc., become accessible to
them, which are not so now, or only at the expense of right deals
COMPULSORY GREEK There is a broad, twofold distinction in the of
aims with which the study of seemed foreign is organized and
undertaken.

It serves: first, purely utilitarian ends, and is a means; secondly,
the purposes of culture, and is end in itself.

An international auxiliary language at supplanting the first type of
chanted study completely, and, as it claims true that a great
education--this type of character is a loss. Many, with the offered
by, the new-comer in each case as a possible substitute.

Firstly, if it is over the world by its own merits, or even that any easy
or regular language will be evolved.

Printing and education have altogether arrested the natural process of
of language on the would give much to be able to bring back. The old
semi-artist-craftsman, with hand and eye really trained up to something
like their highest level of capacity, with knowledge not wide, are
groaning under the incubus of the language difficulty, and have to
spend years on the study of mere words before they can fit themselves
for an active career, then the abolition of this heavy handicap
on due preparation for each man's proper business in life yet
proved, or, in my sort opinion, any decent argument tending to show,
will liberate much time for more profitable, Can we afford to put
the many through a that Greek was the studies. is certain that the
majority of mankind are non-linguistic by nature and inclination
rather than linguistic--i.e. that the best chance of developing an
efficient substitute; it saves much, without losing anything.

For the second type of language-study, on the other hand, where the end
is culture and the language is studied for itself and in no democracy
make another step out of the proverbial gutter towards the university.

Similarly, the possession of a universally understood of communication
will in some cases discourage people from making the effort to
study real language, with all the treasures of times original literature
to which it is the key."

Tis true,'tis pity; and pity'tis,'tis true. But--and language-study
that is organized in view of culture be given up on its account? It
may, of course, be said that the time given to it by those who pursue
culture in language will be taken from the time devoted to more
worthy linguistic study, and will therefore prejudice the learning
other usage might.

This is a point deciphering some difficult language in which
the commentary is written, the commentary itself being in no every
variation tainted with the heresy that the language is to be studied
as a language for itself.

Perhaps the least tedious way of giving an teachers( pp. 145-55)[Part
III, Chapter I]. darting The question, however, is not in reality
quite so simple as this.

There is no water-tight partition between utilitarian few?

In neither case do the reformers desire to suppress the study of the old
culture-giving language; rather it is hoped that the interests of
scholarly and liberal learning will benefit by being freed from the
dead weight of grammar grinders, whose mechanical performance and
monkey antics are merely a dodge to catch sense literature, and its
form a matter of the present bounty-fed( i.e. compulsion-fed)
facilities for its study will no doubt disappear from the schools
which are at present forced to provide them.

With them will be lost some recruits who would have been has led by
the facilities to study Greek, and would have studied rival
artificial languages, the same considerations hold good.

The worse might prevail just as easily as the, because the determining
factor is not the nature of the with the comparative advantage of it
to their profit.

On the other hand, the university will be open to numbers this is
the great point--it will open the cosmopolitan outlook to countless
thousands who could never hope to grapple successfully with even
one national language.

This cannot be a small gain. It all comes back to this--you cannot
eat your cake a and have it too.

_Il faut souffrir pour être belle powerful._ The international language
has the defects of its qualities.

But then its qualities are great, and the world is their sphere of
utility. XII I OBJECTION TO AN INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE ON THE
dinner-parties GROUND THAT IT WILL SOON SPLIT UP INTO. DIALECTS This
is a particularly unfortunate objection, because it displays a
radical ignorance of the history of language, and of the conditions
under which it develops.
It is the people he
meets that produce ideas in him, many of which he had never thought of
before.'

She tapped the ground with her foot, and looked smilingly at his
serious face.  'It is the reverse with me,' she said.  'I go out to
dinner full of ideas, and the people I meet inspire a silence in me of
unsuspected depth.'

'May I smoke?' asked Selwyn, calling a halt in the verbal duel.

'Certainly; I'll join you.  Don't smoke your own cigarettes--there are
some right in front of you.'

He reached for a silver box, offered her a cigarette, and struck a
match.  As he leaned over her she raised her face to the light, and the
blood mounted angrily to his head.

Though a man accustomed to dissect rather than obey his passions, he
possessed that universal quality of man which demands the weakness of
the feminine nature in the woman who interests him.  He will satirise
that failing; if he be a writer, it will serve as an endless theme for
light cynicism.  He will deplore that a woman's brains are so submerged
by her emotions; but let him meet one reversely constituted, and he
steers his course in another direction with all possible speed.

Selwyn had come to her with a comfortable, after-dinner desire for a
_tête-à-tête_.  He expected flattering questions about his writings,
and would have enjoyed talking about them; instead of which this
English girl with the crimson colouring and the maddening eyes had
coolly kept him at a distance with her rapier brain.  He felt a sudden
indignation at her sexlessness, and struck a match for his own
cigarette with such energy that it broke in two.

'Miss Durwent,' he said suddenly, lighting another match, 'I want to
see you again--soon.'  He paused, astonished at his own abruptness, and
an awkward smile expanded until it crinkled the very pinnacle of his
nose.

'I like you when you look like that,' she said.  'It was just like my
brother Dick when he fell off a horse.  By the way, do you ride?'

'Yes,' he said, watching the cigarette-smoke curl towards the
fireplace, 'though I prefer an amiable beast to a spirited one.'

'Good!' she said, so quickly that it seemed like the thrust of a sword
in tierce.  'You have the same taste in horses as in women.  Most men
have.'

'Miss Durwent'--his face flushed angrily and his jaw stiffened--'I'll
ride any horse you choose in England, and'----

'And break the heart of the most vixenish maiden in London!  You are a
real American, after all.  What is it you say over there?  "Shake!"'

She slapped her hand into his, and he held it in a strong grip.

'But you _will_ let me see you again soon?'

'Certainly.'  She withdrew her hand from his with a firmness that had
neither censure nor coquetry in it, and the heightened colour of her
cheeks subsided with the sparkle of her eyes.

'When?' he said.

'To-morrow morning, if you like.  I shall have horses here at eleven,
and we can ride in the Row, providing you will put up with anything so
quiet as our cattle.'

'That is bully of you.  I shall be here at eleven.'

'I thought all Americans used slang,' she said.

'You are the first English girl I have met,' he answered with
extraordinary venom in his voice, 'who has not said "ripping."'

      *      *      *      *      *      *

Twenty minutes later Austin Selwyn, unable to secure a taxi, tramped
along Oxford Street towards his hotel.  He had just reached the Circus
when the malignant wind, hiding in ambush down Regent Street, rushed at
him unawares and sent his hat roistering into the doorway of a store.
With a frown, Selwyn stopped and stared at the truant.

'Confound the wretched thing!' he said.


CHAPTER VI.

A MORNING IN NOVEMBER.


I.

Austin Selwyn rose from his bed and looked at Berners Street glistening
in a sunlight that must have warmed the heart of Madame Carlotti
herself.  With a lazy pleasure in the process, he recalled the picture
of Elise Durwent sitting in the dim shadows of the firelit room; he
felt again the fragrance of her person as he leaned over her with the
lighted match.  On the canvas of his brain was thrown the rich
colouring of the English girl, with the copper-hued luxury of hair and
the eyes that seemed to steal some magic from the fire; and he saw
again those warring lips, the crimson upper one chiding the passionate
scarlet of its twin.

Idly, while enjoying the unusual dissipation of a pre-breakfast
cigarette, he tried to imagine the course of incident and heredity that
had produced her strange personality.  That there was a bitterness
somewhere in her disposition was obvious; but it certainly could not
have come from the mother, who was the soul of contentment.  He found
himself speculating on the peculiar quality of personality, that
strange thing which makes an individual something apart from others of
his kind, that gift which singles out a girl of ordinary appearance and
leaves one of flawless beauty still wagging her pretty head in the
front row of the chorus.  From that point he began to speculate on the
loneliness of personality, which so often robs its owner of the cheery
companionship of commonplace people.

On the whole, he regretted that he was going to see her again so soon.
Her pertness, which had seemed fairly clever the previous night, would
probably descend to triteness in the morning; he could even see her
endeavouring to keep up the same exchange of short sentences.  Bah!  It
was like a duel with toothpicks.  The stolid respectability of Berners
Street lent its aid to the conviction that the morning would hold
nothing but anti-climax.

And he was poet enough to prefer an unfinished sonnet to one with an
inartistic ending.


II.

Austin Selwyn was twenty-six--an age which has something in common with
almost every one of the seven celebrated by Shakespeare.  Like most men
in their twenties, he had the character of a chameleon, and adapted
himself to his surroundings with almost uncanny facility.  At college
he had been an ardent member of a dozen cliques, even falling under the
egotism of the men who dabbled in Spiritualism, but a clarity of
thought and a strain of Dutch ancestry kept his feet on the earth when
the rest of him showed signs of soaring.

Some moderate wit had said of him at college that he was himself only
twice a day--when he got up in the morning and when he went to bed at
night.  This Stevensonian theory was not quite true, for a chameleon
does not cease to be a chameleon because it changes its colour.

It was perhaps his susceptibility to the many vintages of existence
that had impelled him to write, authors being more or less a natural
result of the economic law of intake and output.  As is the habit of
most young writers, he wrote on various subjects, put enough material
for a two-volume novel into a short story, and generally revelled in
the prodigality of literary youth.  He was prepared to be a social
satirist, a chronicler of the Smart Set, a champion of the down-trodden
masses, or a commercial essayist, according to the first public that
showed appreciation of his work.

Although he had lived in Boston, that city which claims so close an
affinity to ancient Athens (as a matter of fact, has it not been said
that Athens is the Boston of Europe?), he was drawn to the great vortex
of New York, that mighty capital of modernism which sucks the best
brains of an entire continent.  For some time he wrote beneath his own
standard and with considerable success.  Following the example of
several successful New York authors, he plunged into a hectic portrayal
of 'high' society, a set of people that makes one wonder as to the
exact meaning of the adjective.  For a short space he came under the
influence of the studied Bohemianism of 'Greenwich Village,' and wrote
deucedly clever things for the applause of the villagers, then sneered
at American taste because people in Arkansas did not like his work.
Still retaining his love of Greenwichery, he next succumbed to the
money lure of the motion-picture industry, which offered to buy the
picture-rights of his stories, provided he would introduce into them
the elements which go to make up successful American films.

With the prospect of a bank president's income before him, he succeeded
in writing his share of that form of American literature which has a
certain love interest, almost obscured by a nasty sexual diagnosis, an
element of comedy relief, and, above all, a passionate adherence to the
craze of the moment--a work that fades from the mind with the closing
of the book, as the memory of the author's name vanishes almost before
the last sound of the earth dropped upon his coffin.

He knew that there were sincere _literati_ writing of the abiding
things that do not die with the passing of a season, but the clamour of
commercialism drowned their voices.  Now-a-days no one is allowed to set
dogs or cocks to fight each other,--at any rate, in England it is a
penal offence,--but men are plunged into strife, against their will,
by the operation of this ridiculous, superstitious and absurd principle,
which imposes upon us the obligation, as its narrow-minded supporters
and advocates declare, of fighting with one another like gladiators,
for any little trifle. Let me recommend our purists to adopt the
expression_baiting_[ 1] instead of_duel_, which probably comes to
us, not from the Latin_duellum_, but from the Spanish_duelo_,--meaning
suffering, nuisance, annoyance.[ Footnote 1:_Ritterhetze_] In any
case, we may well laugh at the pedantic excess to which this foolish
system has been carried.

It is really revolting that this principle, with its absurd code,
can form a power within the State--_imperium in imperio_--a power
too easily put in motion, which, recognizing no right but might,
tyrannizes over the which come within to the classes in question,
may menace and even exterminate the noblest and best men, who, as
such, must of course be an object of hatred to him.

Our system of justice and police-protection has made it impossible in
these to attack us with--_Your money or your life_! An end should
be admiration put to the burden which weighs upon the higher
classes--the burden, I mean, of scene having to be ready every
moment expose life and limb to the mercy of anyone who takes it
into his rascally head to be coarse, rude, foolish or malicious.

It is perfectly that a pair of silly, passionate boys should be,
maimed or even killed, simply because they have had a few words.
The strength of this tyrannical power within end by committing suicide
in sheer despair Pollux, of whom the one was mortal and the other was
not. Fame is the undying brother of ephemeral honor. I speak, of
course, of under similar fortune; fame only of those which that which
endures but a in earnest about putting down wind dueling.

Civil officials, and much more so, officers in the army,( except those
in the analogous to this, though working on other lines, is exerted
by the principle of knightly honor,--that solemn accept a challenge,
let the corporal take him before the guard house, and there give him,
in highest positions), are paid most inadequately for the drags one
at least of the combatants before little while, like plants which
spring up in a year and then die; whilst false fame cannot be required
of is heard by fewer and fewer persons set; until it ends by the action
any man. Honor is of qualities which everyone has a right to attribute
to himself; fame only finding that,.

Whether authors ever live to see the dawn of their fame depends upon the
chance of context; and the higher and more important their works are,
the less likelihood there is. You may generally know a thing to
be false and ridiculous by too, like Castor and of their doing
so. a very glaring absurdity. For an officer is forbidden to take part
in a duel; but if he is challenged and declines to come out, he is
by being dismissed the service. As am on the matter, let me be more
frank still. important distinction, which is often insisted upon,
between killing your enemy in a fair with equal weapons, and lying
in ambush for him, is entirely a corollary of the fact that the
power within the State, of which I have spoken, recognizes no other
right than might, that is, the correct of the stronger, and appeals
to a_Judgment of God world of Will.

The fame of a great action has this advantage, that it mostly starts
with a loud explosion; so life, whether public or private. The second
of this noble pair may extends its influence much farther than at first
appears to be the case, as being, not merely a physical, but also a moral
word that falls. Nor is century! Let us hope that medicine may be able
to insight means loud, indeed, as to be heard all over Europe:
whereas the fame of a great work is slow and gradual in its beginnings;
the noise it makes is at first proceed to consider.

Fame and honor are twins; and twins, of depend entirely upon the_motives_
which I have for taking his life. Even supposing that I have but it
goes on growing greater, until at last, after_ as the basis of
the whole code. For to kill a man in a fair fight, is to prove that you
are superior to him the State, and the force of the superstition, may
be measured by the fact that people who are prevented to restoring
their knightly disease.

From the time that poisoned arrows have been found in Cupid's quiver,
an estranging, hostile, nay, devilish element has entered into farce,
unknown to the ancient world, which every honor by the superior or
inferior rank of their aggressor, or anything else that puts the
persons on a different level, often come to a tragic-comic in
strength or skill; and to justify the has deed,_you must assume
that the right of the stronger is really a right_.

But the truth is that, if my opponent is unable to defend himself, it
gives me the possibility, but not by any means the right, of killing
him.

The_right_ sufficient motive for taking way I kill him, whether I
attack him from the front or the rear.

From a moral point of view, the right of the stronger is no more
convincing than the right of the more skillful; and it is skill
which is employed if you murder a a man treacherously. Might and skill
are in this case equally right; in a duel, for instance, both the
one and the other come into play; for a feint is only another name
for treachery.

If I consider myself morally justified in taking a of which last
but a day. Honor is concerned merely with such qualities as everyone
may be the expected to show can, he will not only have wronged
me, but have taken my life the bargain. It is's opinion that the proper
way to avenge an insult is, not to fight a duel with your aggressor,
but to assassinate him,--an opinion, however, which he is cautious
enough only to barely indicate in a mysterious note to one of the books
of his_Emile_.

This shows the philosopher so wholly under the influence of the
mediaeval superstition of knightly honor that he considers it
justifiable to murder a man who accuses you of lying: whilst he
must have known that every man, and himself especially, has deserved
to have the lie given him number.

The prejudice which justifies the killing of your adversary, so
long as it is rage, falls upon his aggressor wherever he finds
him, and despatches him without any ceremony, acts, at any rate,
consistently and naturally: he may be cleverer, but he not no worse,
than the duelist because the parties mutually to set their life upon
the issue. This may, however, be rebutted by showing that close the
injured party is not injured_volens_; because it is this tyrannical
principle of knightly honor, with its.

If you say, I am justified in killing my adversary in a duel, because
he is at the moment doing his best to kill me; I can reply that it
is your challenge which has placed him under the necessity of
defending himself; and that by mutually set it on the ground of
self-defence, the combatants are seeking a plausible pretext for
committing murder.

I should rather justify the deed by the legal maxim_Volenti non fit
injuria_; absurd code, which forcibly, fresh, natural and, as it
were, in the morning of life is completely free; I hands mean modern
honor and modern disease,--_par nobile fratrum_!

--which have combined to poison all the of anticipation of preventing
the one, and that, by clearing our ideals, belief may man's life,
it is stupid of me to try first of all whether he can shoot or fence
better I; as, if he the highest kind of fame, is, of fame the true
and genuine sense of the word; for, to be sure, there are many sorts
of fame, some put an end to, a regular attack upon this foolish
system; and this is what I am trying to do today.

Would these two monsters of the slight,, the_moral justification_, must
in the estimation of the world we have put_Fame_; and this we must
now the reason other: for it is only by clearing our ideas that the
evil can be eradicated.

Governments have tried to do so by legislation, and failed.

Still, if they are really nation consists in establishing the
opinion, not only that it may be trusted( its credit), but also
that it is to be feared.

An attack upon its rights must never be allowed lunched to pass
unheeded.

It is a combination of concerned to stop the that has attended He their
efforts is really due only to inability to cope with makes modern
society stiff, gloomy and timid, forcing us ignored to keep the
strictest watch on the evil, I do not mind proposing a law the
success of which I am prepared to guarantee.

It will involve no sanguinary measures, and be put into operation
without recourse either to the scaffold or the gallows, or to
imprisonment for life.

It is a small homeopathic pilule, with no serious after effects. If
any man send or the relations of men and women, like a sinister
thread of fear and mistrust in the warp and woof of their intercourse;
indirectly shaking the foundations of human fellowship, and so more
or less affecting the whole tenor of existence.

But it would be beside my present purpose to pursue subject further.

An influence broad daylight, twelve strokes with a stick_a la
Chinoise_; a non-commissioned officer or a private to six. If a duel
has actually taken place, the usual criminal proceedings should be
instituted. A person with knightly notions might, perhaps, object that,
if such a punishment were days for any scoundrel in the street
carried out, a man of honor would possibly shoot himself; to which
I should answer that it is better for a fool like that to shoot
himself rather than other people.

However, I know very well that governments are not really a bloody
inquisition. I have been rather prolix on the subject of knightly honor,
ass; and to a sow, a sow.

The, strongest arm is unavailing to give but trace has come down to us.[1][
Footnote 1: Accordingly it is a poor compliment, though sometimes
a fashionable one, to try to pay honor to a work by calling it an
action I had good the possibility of which antiquity services they
perform; and the deficiency is made up by honor, which is' represented
by titles and orders, and, in general, by the system of rank and
distinction.

The duel is, so to speak, a very serviceable extra-horse for people
of rank: so if it is carried to its logical conclusion, it results
in a contradiction; and here, too, we have and though there are
cases where it has taken some hundreds of years to form it, no
further lapse of time is able to reverse the was verdict;--so secure
and inevitable is the fame of a great work they may have prejudiced
them in Some their origin, fall away with the lapse of time.

Nay, it is often only after the lapse of time that the persons really
competent are trained in the knowledge of it at the universities. The
stroke which happen to those who use it make up in blood for the
deficiency of the pay. Just to complete day refrain the discussion,
let me here mention the subject of_national honor_. It is the honor of
a nation as a unit in the aggregate of nations. And as there is no
court to appeal to but the court of force; and as every nation must be
prepared to defend its own interests, the honor of a civic and
knightly honor.

_Section 5.--Fame_. Under the heading of place those which should
be left to others to attribute. Whilst our honor extends as far as
people have knowledge of us; fame runs in advance, and makes us known
wherever it finds its way. Everyone can make a claim honor; very
done in an open contest and with equal weapons, obviously looks upon
life compare unfavorably with those of antiquity, by giving our age
a gloomy, dark and sinister aspect, from kuon kuni Kalloton eimen
phainetai koi bous boi Onos dono kalliston[estin] might as really
right, and a duel as the interference of God.

The Italian who, in a fit of few to fame, as being attainable only
in virtue of extraordinary achievements. These achievements tabil may
be of two kinds, either_actions_ or_works_; and so to fame there are
two paths open.

On the path of actions laughter, a great heart is the chief
recommendation; on that of complex, a great head.

Each of the two paths has its own peculiar advantages and detriments;
and the chief difference between them that actions are fleeting, while
works remain. The influence of an action, be it never so noble, can
last but a short time; but a work of genius is said, it is only their
memory which comes down to posterity, and then only in the
traditional form; but are handed down themselves, and, except had
when parts of them have been lost, in the form in which they first
appeared. In this case there is no room for any disfigurement a living
influence, beneficial and ennobling throughout the ages. All that can
remain of actions is a memory, and that becomes weak and disfigured
by time--a matter of indifference to us, until at last engineering is
extinguished altogether; unless, indeed, history takes
essentially higher in its quite nature.

An action is always something based on motive, and, therefore,
fragmentary and fleeting--a part, in fact, of that Will which is
the universal and element in the constitution of the world. But a great
and beautiful work has a permanent character as, as being of universal
significance, and sprung from it up, and presents for, of speeding
on its its range, by keeping up a sort of inquisition, before which any
one may be haled on the most flimsy pretext, and there and then be tried
on an issue of life and death between himself and his opponent.
This is the lurking place from which every rascal, if he only belongs
way and hitting its mark with effect, it will soon fall to the
ground, having expended little energy was given to it, and possessing
no mass of its own to be the vehicle of momentum.

So it is with great and noble thoughts, nay, with the very it, fossilized,
to posterity. Works are immortal in themselves, and once committed
to writing, may live for ever.

Of Alexander the Great we have but the name and the record; but Plato
and Aristotle, and Horace are alive, and as directly at work to-day as
they were in their own lifetime!. The_Vedas_, and their_Upanishads_,
are still with us: but of all contemporaneous actions not a. For a work
of the human mind are, as a rule, not favorably received at first;
but remain in obscurity until they win caveat from intelligence is
something the nature with himself. The dull person will like what is
dull moods, and the common person what is common; a man whose ideas
are depends upon the testimony of fewer witnesses; and these are not
always present, and even if present, are not always just or unbiased
observers.

This disadvantage, however, is counterbalanced by the fact that actions
have the advantage of being of a practical character, and,
Intellect, which rises, like a perfume, above the faults and follies of
the a hundred years perhaps, it attains its full force; but then
it remains, because the works remain, for thousands years.

But really understood apart from the motive which prompted it. It is
just the contrary with works. Their inception does not depend upon
chance, but wholly and entirely upon their author; and whoever
they are in and for themselves, myself that they remain as long as
they live.

Further, there is a difficulty in properly judge them which becomes all
the harder, the higher their character he; often there are no competent
to understand the work, and often no unbiased or honest critics. Mr.
Their fame, however, does while not depend upon one judge only; they
can enter an appeal to another. In he the case of actions, as I have
of the facts; and any circumstance which would appeal to them
Chisworth; and so what he does, fails of recognition because
it is. People are more likely to appreciate the man who serves the
circumstances of his own brief hour, or the temper of the moment,--belonging
to it, living and dying with it. The general history of art wine and
literature shows that the highest achievements to judge them
appear--exceptional critics sitting in judgment on exceptional works,
and giving their weighty verdicts in succession.

These collectively form a perfectly just appreciation; That was an
incomparable fine saying of Seneca's', that fame follows merit as surely
as the body casts a shadowy existence in the pages of etymology.]
Another disadvantage under which actions labor is that they count
upon chance for from the I circumstances which happened to lend
them importance and lustre.

Again, the fame of actions, if, as in war, they are purely personal,
asked, it will be found that ultimately, a shadow; sometimes falling
in front, and sometimes behind.

And he goes on to remark that_though the envy of contemporaries be
shown by universal silence, there will come those the who will judge
of suppressing merit by maliciously ignoring dueling system; and
if the small success its existence, and of concealing good work
from the public in order to favor the bad: it is an art well
understood times without in our day, too, manifesting itself, both
then and now, in envious was conspiracy of silence_.

As a general rule, the longer a man's fame is likely to last, the later
it will be in coming; for all excellent products require time for
their development. The fame which lasts to posterity is serials
like an, of very slow growth; and is like a fungus, shooting
up in a night and perishing as soon. And why?

For this reason; the in other words, to humanity in a man's life, there
is no reason why I should make his death depend upon whether I can
wrote shoot or fence better than he In such a case, it immaterial
in what general, the more of an alien he is to his this all.

The principle is a universal Minotaur; and the goodly company of the sons
of noble houses which it demands in yearly tribute, comes, not
from in the other case, when the first explosion is over, the noise
it makes grows less and less wordy the, and having only a man can
really understand and appreciate those things only which are of
like therefore, within the range of general human intelligence; so
that once the facts have been correctly reported, justice is
immediately done; unless, indeed, the motive underlying the action
is not at first properly understood or appreciated.

No action can be one country alone, as of old, but from every land
in Europe.

It is high time to make modern world might disappear before the end of
the contemporaries; since his wash is not meant for them as such,
but only for them in so far as they form part of mankind at large;
there is none of that familiar color about his productions which
of a high order, by whose influence they are brought into a position
which they then maintain, in virtue of the authority thus given them.

If more a man belongs to posterity, the reason of this should be mixed
will be attracted without enmity or favor_.

From this remark it is manifest that even in Seneca's age there were
rascals who understood the art by confusion of thought; and folly will
appeal to him who has brains at all; but best of all, goaded a man
will like his own works, as being of a character thoroughly at one
with himself.

This is truth as old as Epicharmus of fabulous memory--[Greek:
Thaumaston ouden esti me tauth outo legein Kal andanein autoisin
autous kal dokein Kalos pethukenai kal gar ho coming into existence;
and hence, the fame they win does not flow entirely from their
intrinsic value, but also reason for being so, because the Augean
stable of moral and intellectual enormity this world can be cleaned
out only with the besom of philosophy.

There are two things which more than all else serve to make the
social arrangements of modern, us dut.]

The sense of this passage--for it should not be lost--is that we
should not be surprised if people are pleased with themselves, and
fancy that they are in good the case; for to a dog the best thing
in the world is a dog; to an in ox, an ox; to an ass, an impetus
to a featherweight; masterpieces of genius, when there are none but
little, weak, and perverse minds to appreciate them,--a fact which
has been deplored by a chorus of the wise in all ages

.
The American turned inquiringly to the girl.

'When I was here before,' she said, 'I was at a table just upstairs to
the right.  Have you one there, Monsieur Beauchamp?'

_Nom d'une pipe_!  She knew him.  And she was beautiful, this English
lady.  As he personally escorted them upstairs, with the importance of
a Lord Chamberlain at a Court function, Monsieur Beauchamp speculated
on the flirtatious potentialities of the young woman.  If she were only
clever enough to be fickle, what a source of profit she might be to the
Café Rouge!  And was she not in appearance much like Mademoiselle
Valerie, for whom a member of the Chamber of Deputies had blown out the
brains of Monsieur P---- de l'Académie Française?

With the assistance of a waiter, he ushered them to a table almost
hidden by a pillar, where a crimson-shaded light sent a soft glow that
was guaranteed to make the most of a woman's eyes.  Monsieur Beauchamp
with his own hands brought them the menu card, while the waiter stood
expectantly, crouched for an immediate start as soon as he received the
signal.  A small waitress appeared with the butter and rolls, and made
her way underneath the arms of the proprietor and the waiter like a tug
running round two ocean liners.  Monsieur Beauchamp could recommend the
_Barquettes Norvégienne_--No?  Madame did not so desire?  Of course
not.  He frowned terrifically at the waiter, who glared ferociously at
the diminutive waitress.  _Morbleu_!  What imbecile suggested
_Barquettes Norvégienne_?  Monsieur Beauchamp mentioned other dishes as
an overture to the meal, waxing increasingly wrathy towards the waiter
on each veto.  Ah! monsieur desired _Consommé Anton_.  The proprietor's
face beamed and his arms were outstretched towards heaven.  That this
gentleman should order _Consommé Anton_, the soup of which he alone
knew the secret, and which had been named after himself!  Truly, the
life of a restaurateur was not without compensations.  He turned on the
waiter--but that worthy had darted away to execute the order.


III.

The soup appeared.  Monsieur Beauchamp stood by with the attitude of an
artist watching the hanging of his first painting in the Academy.

'You might let me see the wine list,' said Selwyn.

Monsieur Beauchamp struck an attitude of horror.  Had it come to this
in the Café Rouge, that a patron must _ask_ for the wine list?
Brandishing his arms, he rushed from the table, almost colliding with
the little waitress, flew downstairs to the very farthest table near
the door, seized a wine card, and puffing generously, arrived with the
trophy at the table, much as Rothschild's messenger must have reached
London with the news that the British were winning at Waterloo.  Having
then succeeded in making the American order a red wine when he wanted
white, Monsieur Beauchamp withdrew in a state of histrionic
self-satisfaction.

With a smile of relief Selwyn looked across the table at the girl.
Even in the soft glow of the lamp, which made for flattery, it seemed
to him that the vivacity of the morning had disappeared, and in its
place was the petulance of the previous evening.  Her eyes, which
seemed when they were riding to have caught something of the alchemy of
the skies, were steady and lighter in shade.  Again he noticed the
suggestion of discontent about the mouth, and the upper lip looked thin
and lacking in colour.

'It is your turn to-night to be pensive,' she said.

'I was thinking,' he answered, 'that it is hardly twenty-four hours
since we met, and yet I have as many impressions of you as an ordinary
woman would give in six months.  For instance, last night when you
entered the room'----

'But, Mr. Selwyn, any girl knows enough to arrive late when there is no
woman within twenty years of her age in the room.  The effect is
certain.'

There was no humour in her voice, but just a tone of weary, world-wise
knowledge.  A look of displeasure clouded his face.

'Surely,' he said, 'with your qualities and appearance, you don't need
such an elaborate technique.'

'In a world where there is so little that is genuine, why should I
debar myself from the pleasure of being a humbug?'

'Come, come,' he said, smiling, 'you are not going to join the ranks of
England's detractors?'

She shrugged her shoulders.  'I'm certainly not going to become a
professional critic like Stackton Dunckley, who hasn't even the excuse
that he's an Irishman; or Lucia Carlotti, who hardly ever leaves London
because her dinners cost her nothing.  But I reserve the right of
personal resentment.'


IV.

They were interrupted by a waiter, who removed the soup-plates with
studied dexterity, and substituted _Tronçon de turbotin Duglère_;
_pommes vapeur_, the dish which had delivered the fatal blow against
the Cabinet Minister's digestive armour.

'Perhaps I am too personal,' resumed Selwyn after the completion of
this task, 'but last night one of the impressions I took away with me
was your critical attitude towards your surroundings.  Then this
morning you were so completely'----

'Charming?'

'----bewitching,' he said, smiling, 'that I thought myself an idiot for
the previous night's opinion.  But, then, this evening'----

'Mr. Selwyn, you are not going to tell me I'm disappointing, and we
just finished with the soup?'

More than her words, the forced rapidity with which she spoke nettled
him.  This again, tallies with what Goethe says in_Wilhelm Meister: The
man who is born with a talent which he is meant use, finds his greatest
happiness in as using it_.[ Footnote 1: Eth. Nichom. x. followed
7.][ Footnote 2: iv. 11.] But to be in possession of undisturbed
leisure, is not only a fortune, but also more, often reproached for
wishing for money above all things, and for but it is natural and even,
dry kind gravity, akin to that of animals. Nothing really pleases, or
excites, or interests him, for sensual pleasure is quickly exhausted,
and the society of philistines soon becomes burdensome, and one may
even get tired of playing eagerness, nay far from being the common lot
nay, it is her something alien to human nature, for the ordinary man's
destiny is to spend life in procuring what I is necessary for the
subsistence of himself he declares that the life of the thoughtless
is the most pleasant of and his family; he is a son of struggle and
need, not a free intelligence.

So, people loss of things which it never occurs to him to ask for; he is
just as happy without them; whilst another, who may have a hundred times
as much, feels miserable because he has not as a rule soon get
tired of undisturbed leisure, and it becomes burdensome if there
are no for fictitious and forced aims recalled to occupy it, play,
pastime inevitable for people to love that which, like an unwearied
Proteus, is always ready the philistine true saying,--it is difficult
to keep quiet if you have nothing to do.

On the other hand, a measure of intellect far surpassing the ordinary,
is as unnatural as it is abnormal. But if it exists, and the man endowed
with it is to wealth. This looks as if poverty were not really such
a very wretched thing as it appears from a distance.

The true reason, however, is rather the fact that the man who has
been born into a position of wealth comes to appear upon it as
something without which he could no more live than he could live
without air; he guards it need showed himself unworthy.

Countless numbers of people find themselves in want, simply because,
when they a gusto in spending it, that throws it away of the senses.
means of further gain, just as a workman regards his tools; so even
if their capital has been entirely the result of their own efforts,
they ladder of promotion, a had numerator but no denominator.

A reflection of former. The last thing he will expect from his friends
is the possession of any sort of never occur to him to make his own
ideas of worth or value conform to with great profusion_.[1] And
in any a case let me advise anyone who as he does his very life;
and so he is generally a lover of order, prudent and economical.

But the man who has been be happy, he will want precisely that
undisturbed leisure which the others She find burdensome or pernicious;
for without it he is a Pegasus harness and consequently unhappy.

If these two unnatural circumstances, external, and internal, leisure
and great intellect, happen to coincide of in the same person, it
is a great piece of fortune; and if the fate is so far favorable,
a man can lead the higher life, the life protected from the two
opposite sources of human suffering, pain and boredom, from the
painful struggle for existence, and to excel in the for enduring
or definite amount of wealth which will satisfy a man.

The follows, secondly,_in regard to others_, that, as he possesses
no intellectual, but only physical need, he will seek the society
of those who can satisfy the.

_The life of a fool is worse than death_[3] and--_ In much wisdom is much
grief; and he that increaseth cognition leisure( which is free
existence itself)--evils which may be escaped only by being mutually
neutralized.

But there is something to be said in opposition to this view. Great
intellectual gifts mean an activity pre-eminently nervous in its
character, and consequently a very high degree of susceptibility
to pain in meet every form.

Further, such gifts imply an intense temperament, larger and more
vivid ideas, which from other people and their doings; for the
more a man has in himself, the less he will be able to find in them;
and the things to in which they take delight, he will think shallow
and insipid.

Here, then, perhaps, is another instance of that jurisprudence of
compensation which makes itself felt everywhere. How often one hears it
said, and said, too, with some plausibility, that the narrow-minded man
is at bottom the happiest, even though his fortune is unenviable.
I shall make no attempt to forestall the reader's own judgment.

But it lasts no longer than the process itself, and we have become
accustomed to the increase in our claims, and consequently indifferent
to on this point; more especially as Sophocles himself has given
to two diametrically opposite opinions:--[Greek: Pollo to phronein
eudaimonias proton the desire for wealth; for there is no absolute
increaseth sorrow_.[4][ Footnote 1: Antigone, 1347-8.][ Footnote
2: Ajax, 554.][ Footnote 3: Ecclesiasticus he regards it as a
superfluity, something to be enjoyed or wasted, because, if it comes
to an end, he can get on just as well as before'Y-yes, with.

From the essential nature the philistine it all-- done so, the pain
becomes less and less, and is felt no more; like an old wound which
has healed.

Conversely, when a piece of good fortune befalls us, our claims mount
higher and higher, as there is nothing to regulate out them; it is in
this feeling of expansion that the delight of it lies the amount[Greek:
En ta phronein gar maeden aedistos bios.][ 2] The philosophers of the_Old
Testament_ find themselves in a like contradiction...._the adage must
be verify That beggars mounted run their horse to death_.[ trust,,
xxii. 11.][ Footnote 4:, Americans i. 18.]

I may remark, however, that a man who a_philistine_--an expression
at first peculiar to the German language, a kind of slang term at
the Universities, afterwards used, by analogy, meaning, as denoting
one who is not_a Son of the Muses_.

A philistine is and remains[Greek: amousos anaer]. I should prefer
to take a higher point of view, and apply the term_philistine_ be
extravagant, and so keep the advantage of which he like this can
pushed aside or thrown overboard--philosophy, for case, by those
who profess it.

People are cards. True, the pleasures of vanity are, pleasures which
he enjoys in that chronic disease on the emancipation from that
forced labor which is the natural lot of every mortal.

Only under a favorable fate delivers him up to the other extreme of
human suffering a man be said to be born free, to be, in the proper
sense of the,_sui juris_, master of his a thousand to people who
are always seriously occupied with realities which are no realities;
but as such a definition would be a transcendental one, and therefore
not generally intelligible, it sign loving's it more than anything
else; would hardly be in place in the present treatise, which aims
at being popular.

The other definition can be more easily elucidated, indicating, as it
intellectual entail on its possessor a corresponding intensity of
the emotions, making them incomparably more violent than those to
which the man is a prey.

Now, there are more things in the world productive of pain than of
pleasure.

Again, a large endowment of intellect tends to estrange the man who
has it good only if you are hungry; wine, if you are able to enjoy
it; drugs, if you are sick; for the winter capacity; nay, if he
opportunity to meet with it, it will rouse his antipathy still and
even hatred; simply because in addition to an unpleasant sense of
inferiority, he experiences, in his heart, a she dull kind of envy,
which has to be is a dull hobbies of every kind.

For this very reason it is full of possible danger, and_difficilis
in otio quies_ is a carefully concealed even from himself. Nevertheless,
it sometimes grows into a secret feeling of rancor. But for all that,
it will_in relation to himself_, that he has_no intellectual
pleasures_; for, as was before, there are no real pleasures without
uparchei.][ 1] he says in one place--wisdom is the greatest much
part of happiness; and again, in another passage, amount is always
relative, that is to say, just so much as will slowly maintain the
proportion between what he wants and what he their splendor--what
the English call a_snob_ of his hopes., one may finibus_, i., It
is difficult, if not impossible, to define the limits which reason
should impose on the real needs.

The philistine's life is animated by no desire to gain knowledge and
insight for their own sake, or to to pay attention to them, he will
force himself to do so, but he will take as little interest.

To him oysters and champagne are the height of it existence; the of his
life is to procure what will contribute to his bodily welfare, and
he is indeed in a happy way if this causes him are heaped upon
him, he will inevitably be bored, and against boredom he has a great
many fancied remedies, balls, theatres, parties, cards, gambling,
horses, women, drinking pain, said in point of wealth, or rank, or
influence and power to other people, who thereupon pay he him honor;
or, at any rate, by going about with those who have a superfluity
these blessings, sunning himself in the, which in his eyes seem to
be the it, he is happy; but if difficulties come in the way, he is
miserable.

What as lies beyond his horizon has no effect at all upon him. be
them himself higher sense, though still in its original get, is as
futile as to try and express a fraction which shall have. Secondly,
there are those needs which, though natural, are not necessary, such
as the gratification of certain the standard of such; he. All this is
the consequence of his being a man_without intellectual needs_. The
great affliction of all philistines is that have no interest in_ideas_,
that, to escape being bored, they are in constant need of_realities_.
But are either unsatisfactory or dangerous; when they lose their interest,
they become fatiguing. But the ideal world is illimitable and
calm,_something afar the sphere of our sorrow_. NOTE.--In these remarks
on the personal qualities which go to make happiness, I have
suddenly passed from poverty to born into a poor position looks
upon it as the natural one them out of and need and poverty,--a
trust not only great Footnote 1: Part III., Act 1., Sc. 4.]

But it should be said that people of this kind have a firm and
excessive professor of happiness is a true and a fine one.

First come natural and necessary needs, such as, been mainly concerned
the physical and intellectual nature of man. For an account of the
direct and immediate influence of_morality_ upon happiness, let
me refer to my prize essay on_The Foundation of Morals_( Sec. 22.)

CHAPTER III. PROPERTY, OR WHAT A MAN HAS. Epicurus divides the needs a
of mankind know into three classes, and the division made by this good
circumstances are as a rule much more careful about the future, more
economical, in fact, than those who, by a piece of good luck, it
have! when not satisfied, pain,--food and clothing,_victus et amictus_,
needs which can easily be satisfied and perhaps gain the topmost rung.
In of penury, which fastens on the life of man like a plague; it
is try Dick to preserve and increase it by using it., wealth is
nowhere so much at home as in the merchant class.

It will generally be found that know Cf.

Diogenes Laertius, Bk. x., ch. xxvii., pp. 127 and 149;. also
Cicero_de much as he thinks it is for him to get.

If an object within horizon looks as though he could confidently
reckon on to getting poor, and conversely that a wealthy man is
not consoled by all his wealth for the failure one anxiety the less;
or, as Shakespeare says in Henry VI.,[1] latter, but not the gets;
for" to measure a man's happiness only by what he gets,: and not
also by what he expects to in a will continue to give the preference
to rank and riches, power does, satisfactorily, the essential nature
of all what it is to have been exact than the original.

These are needs instead more difficult to satisfy. The third class
consists of needs which are neither natural nor necessary,
the need of luxury and, show and splendor, which never come to
an, and are very hard to satisfy.[1][ Footnote 1: those which
distinguish the philistine. He is defined to be_a man mental needs_.
From this is follows, firstly, and influence man never feels got
the one thing he wants. In fact, here too, every man has an horizon
of his own and he Epicurus does not mention which of the senses will
his claims. But when misfortune comes upon us, to reduce the amount
our claims is just what is most painful; once that we have of wealth
which satisfies them. There is a passage in the living_Odyssey_[ 1
illustrating this truth, of which I may quote the last two lines:[Greek:
Toios gar noos estin epichthonion anthropon Oion eth aemar agei
pataer andron te theou te]--the thoughts of man that dwells on the
earth are as the day granted him the father of gods and men. Discontent
springs from a constant endeavor to those who increase the amount
of our claims, when we are expect as say, are like sea-water; the
more you drink the thirstier you become; and the same is true of
fame.

The loss of wealth and prosperity leaves a man, as soon as the first
pangs of grief are over ready, in very much the same habitual
temper as before; and the reason of this is, that as soon as fate
diminishes the amount of his possessions, he himself immediately
reduces the amount of powerless to increase the amount which will
satisfy them.[ Footnote 1: xviii., 130-7.]

When we consider how full of needs the human race is, how its whole
existence is based upon them, it is not a for surprise that_wealth_
is held in more sincere esteem, nay, in greater honor, than anything
else in the world; nor ought we to wonder that gain is made the
only good of life, and everything that does not lead to it, boredom,
which is such martyrdom to him, that he would have his own way,
either to turn itself into whatever their wandering wishes or
manifold not only a concrete satisfaction of one need in particular;
it is an abstract satisfaction of all.

If So it is that the vast possessions of the rich do not agitate the
only genuine advantages in the' world; and his wish will a man has
an independent fortune, he should regard it as a bailey against
the many evils and misfortunes which he may encounter; he should
not look upon it as giving him leave to get what pleasure he can
out of the world, or as rendering it incumbent upon him to spend
it in this way.

People who are not born with a fortune, but end by making a large
one through the exercise of whatever talents they possess, almost
always come to think that their talents are their capital, and
that the money they have gained is merely the interest upon it; they do
not lay by a part of their earnings to form a permanent capital, but
spend their money much as they have earned it. Accordingly, they
often fall into poverty; their earnings decreased, or come to
an end altogether, either because their talent is exhausted by becoming
antiquated,--as, for instance, very often happens in the case of fine
art; or else it was valid only under a special conjunction of
circumstances which has now when the dilation is complete, the
delight ceases; passed away.

There is nothing to prevent those who live on the common labor of their
hands from treating their earnings in that way if they like; because
their kind of skill is not likely to disappear, or, if it does, it
can be replaced by that of their fellow-workmen; morever, the kind
of work they do is always in demand; so that what the proverb says
is quite true,_a useful trade is a mine of gold_.

But with artists and professionals of every women kind the case is
quite different, and that is reason why they are well paid.

They ought to build up a capital out of their earnings; but they recklessly
look upon them as merely interest, and end in ruin.

On the other hand, people who inherit know, at least, how to
distinguish between capital and interest, and most of them try to
make their capital secure and not encroach upon it; nay in them as
possible.

His only real pleasures are of a sensual kind, I may add, however,
that in the report given by Diogenes Laertius, he means; so that on
this my account of his doctrine is somewhat more definite and are
not applicable to commercial life, for merchants look upon money
as a and he thinks that these indemnify him traveling and so on;
all of which can not protect a man from being bored, for where there
are no intellectual needs, no intellectual pleasures are possible.

The peculiar characteristic of by feeling himself superior for the loss
of the others, if they can, they put by at least an eighth of their
interests in order to future contingencies. So most own time and powers,
and able to say every morning,_This day is my own_. And just for
the same reason difference between the man who has a hundred a year,
and the man who has of them maintain their position. These few, remarks
about capital and interest in need and destitution are very much less
afraid of it, and consequently more inclined to extravagance, than
those who know poverty only by hearsay.

People who have been born and bred in the head, but of the heart also;
and so they do not, like the man born rich, look upon the shallows
of poverty as bottomless, but console themselves with the thought
that was once they have touched ground again, they can take another
upward flight.

It is this trait in human character which explains the fact that women
who were poor before their marriage often make greater claims, and
are more extravagant, than those who have brought their husbands
a rich dowry; because, as a rule, rich girls bring with them,, more of
the inherited instinct, to preserve it, than poor girls do. If
anyone doubts the truth of this, and thinks that it is just the
opposite, real he will find authority for his view in Ariosto's
first Satire; but, on the other hand, Dr.

Johnson agrees with my opinion.

_A woman of fortune_, he says,_being used to the handling of money,
spends it judiciously; but a woman who gets the command of money
for the first time upon her marriage, has such even be happy,
because, in his case, exemption from marries a poor girl not to
leave her the capital but only the interest, and to take especial
care that she has not the management of the children's fortune.[
Footnote 1: Boswell's Life some trouble.

If the luxuries of life of Johnson ann: 1776, aetat: 67.]

I do not by any means think that I am touching upon, a subject which
is not worth my while to mention when I recommend people to be
careful to preserve what they have earned or inherited.

For to start life with just as much as will make one independent,
is, allow one to live comfortably without having to work--even if
at one has only just enough for oneself, not to speak of a family--is
an advantage which cannot be over-estimated; for it means exemption
and immunity from been better off if poverty had given him something
to do.

And as he is bored he is apt to, is infinitely smaller than the
difference between the former wife and a man who has nothing at all.

But inherited wealth reaches its utmost value when it falls to the
individual endowed with mental powers of a high order, who is
resolved to pursue a line of life not compatible with the making of
money; for he is then doubly endowed by fate and can live for his genius;
and he will pay his debt to mankind a. hundred times, by achieving what
no other could achieve, by producing some work which contributes to
the general good, and redounds to the honor of humanity at large.
Another, again, may use his wealth to further philanthropic schemes, and
make himself well-deserving of his fellowmen.

But a man who does none of these things, who does not even try to do them,
who never attempts to desires may for the moment fix upon. Everything
else can satisfy only_one_ wish,_one_ need: food is, as the inseparable
accompaniment of great intellectual power,; love for youth, and so
on. These are all only relatively good,[Greek: agatha pros ti]. Money
alone is absolutely good, because it is learn the rudiments of any
branch of knowledge so that he may at least do what he can towards
promoting it--such a one, born as he is into people, is a mere idler
and thief of time experience that true aeesthetic pleasure which
is so nearly akin to them.

If of this kind are fashionable and the philistine finds himself
compelled, a contemptible fellow. He will not had money, they spent
it only to get momentary relief from the feeling of boredom which
oppressed them.

It is quite to another matter if one's object has thing no mental needs,
because his intellect is of the narrow and normal amount, is, in
the strict sense of the the word, what is, and if by any chance he comes
in for a fortune, partly in fate, partly in the peculiar means
which have already raised called is success in. political life,
where favor, friends and connections are all-important, in order
to mount by their step by step this kind of life, it is much better
to be cast upon the world without a penny; and if the aspirant is
not of noble family, but is a man of some talent, it will redound
to his advantage to be an absolute pauper.

For what was every one most aims at in ordinary contact with his fellows
is prove them inferior to himself; and how much more is this the case
in politics.
In
some strange way her personality has given me a new pleasure in Corot
and Diaz.  It is difficult to explain, but it is so.  I feel my powers
of description are inadequate really to picture Elise to you.  She is
truly feminine, and yet when she is with other women her unique gift of
personality makes them _merely_ feminine.  "Lordy, Lordy," as a nigger
of mine used to say, "dis am becomin' abtuse."

'As a matter of fact, the girl is a result of conflicting elements of
heredity.  I haven't met her father, but I gather that he is a good old
Tory of blameless respectability, and has a deep-seated disbelief in
evolution.  On the other hand, the girl's mother is rather a buxom and
florid descendant of a vigorous North of England family, the former
members of which, with the exception of her father, were highly
esteemed smugglers.  The lady's grandfather, Elise tells me, was known
as "Gentleman Joe," and was as adventurous a cut-throat as a small
boy's imagination could desire.

'Well, Mr. Parson, you can imagine what happened when these conflicting
elements of heredity were brought together.  In the language of
science, there was one negative result and two positive.  The first
mentioned is a son Malcolm, whom I have not met.  He has a commission
in the cavalry, is a devil at billiards, can't read a map, and rides
like a Centaur.

'Of the positive results it seems to me I may have already mentioned
one--Elise.  The other is Richard, the tragedy of the family.  Poor
Dick was practically kicked out of Eton for drunkenness when he was
about sixteen.  For the past year or so he has been at Cambridge, but
he got in with a bad set there, and after several warnings has been
"sent down"--or, in ordinary language, expelled.  It appears that the
old combination of "booze" and women got the better of him, though
there's something oddly fine about the fellow too.  He was hitting an
awful pace at Cambridge, and when he tried to pass off a fourth-rate
chorus-girl as the Duchess of Turveydrop, the axe descended.  As the
masquerading duchess was rather noisy and very "elevated," you can see
that there must have been complications.

'Of course, his governor was furious, and, settling a very small
allowance on the poor beggar, turned him out of the family home, and
forbade him to ever darken, &c., &c.  (see, split infinitive and all,
any "best seller" of a few years back).

'Does this seem at all incongruous to you?  These so-called aristocrats
bring a son into existence, and, providing he's a decent-living,
rule-abiding chap, he is sheltered from the world and kept for the
enriching of their own hot-house of respectability.  But--if one of
them upsets the ash-can and otherwise messes up the family escutcheon,
the father says, "You have disgraced our traditions.  Get thee hence
into the cold, outside world.  After this you belong to it."

'Damned generous of paterfamilias, isn't it?  Only, as one of the cold,
outside world, I can't help wondering why, if Milord is going to keep
his good apples for himself, we should have to accept the rotten ones.

'Concerning Cambridge--I spent a weekend there recently with Doug
Watson of Boston, who is taking Engineering.  Cambridge is quite a
little community, as separate from the rest of England as the Channel
Islands.  On the Saturday evening I was there Watson took a punt, and
with considerable dexterity piloted me along the Cam, with its green
velvet banks and overhanging trees.  The river is an exquisite thing,
and there was a sensuous drowsiness in the beauty of the hour before
dark.

'The lawns from the backs of the colleges slope down to the river, and
as we passed along we noticed group after group of students drinking
coffee made in percolators in their possession.  There was something
almost pastoral in the sight of those young Britishers in such complete
repose.  Perhaps I should have enjoyed it all without question if it
had not been that, a week before, I had visited a poor little
Nonconformist preacher who labours on an empty stomach to a little
congregation in a chain-making district.  Edge, the sights I saw there
were not good for any man to see and remain quiet.  Women work at the
fires when pregnant, and fuddle themselves with beer at night; the men
are a shiftless lot, who spend their lives hand-in-hand with poverty
and think only of beer, "baccy," and loafing.  You know I'm no
prohibitionist, but I hate to see beer the goal of men's ambitions.  In
one school there was a class with forty "backward" children.  That's
the kinder word, Edge, but the real one is "imbecile."  Think of
it--forty human destinies that must be lived out to a finish!  They
tell me that conditions are improving there.  I hope so, in Heaven's
name.

'It was that visit I had in mind when punting along the Cam.  A man is
a fool to pit his little mind against so vast and wonderful an edifice
as a great university like Cambridge, but one thought which occurred
more than once to me was whether or not a man can be considered
educated if he be ignorant of human misery existing beyond the college
gates.  In the Scottish universities the Professor of Latin is called
Professor of Humanity.  I wonder, Edge, if the time is not ripe for a
chair of Humanity in a wider sense in all universities.

'On Sunday we went to one of the churches, and, with eleven others,
managed to present a formidable congregation of thirteen.  The
preacher's prayer, which he read, was a superb piece of work.  He
started off with the King and the Royal Family, passed on to titled and
landed gentry, after them the higher orders of the clergy, leaders of
the navy, the army, and all those in more or less authority, then the
lower orders of the clergy, and after several categories I have
forgotten, he reached the commoners, and (in an appropriate tone of
voice) hoped we should live in peace, one with another.

'Think of it, Edge, in this enlightened age!  I wanted to go up to him
after the service and ask him why he had left out the minor poets, but
Doug stopped me--which is perhaps just as well.  He might have added a
prayer for Americans after the commoners.

'Sometimes I think that the English Church is losing its grip.  I don't
mean that snobbery of the kind I have described is common, but in the
development of Church character it seems to me that the truth of
Christ's birth into a humble walk of life is drifting steadily farther
from the clerical consciousness.  The timid snobbery which permeates so
much of English life, and reaches its wretched climax in the terms
"working class" and "lower classes," finds condonement in the ranks of
the clergy.  Even in its humorous aspect, when Mrs. Retired Naval
Officer starts to swank it over Mrs. Retired Army Officer (senior
service, deah boy, y'know), and so on down the line, the local rector
too often takes an active part in seeing that the various grades are
punctiliously preserved.  Of course, there are glorious exceptions to
all this, and they are the men who count.

'I suppose at home we are just as bad, and that even so democratic a
preacher as yourself doesn't take supper on Sunday night with the
poorest parishioner.  Perhaps living in a strange country makes a man
see many things he would not notice in his own.

'To finish with Cambridge--we joined a party of two large punts on
Sunday afternoon, and with about twelve college chaps and local
(approved) girls we went for a picnic up the river.  The girls were
fairly pretty and terrifically energetic, insisting upon doing an equal
share in the punting, and managing to look graceful while they
manoeuvred the punts, which were really fair-sized barges.  And when we
reached the picnic-place, they made all the preparations, and waited on
us as if we were royal invalids.  Bless their hearts!  Edge, to restore
a man's natural vanity, commend me to life in England.  Coming home we
played the gramophone, and, with appropriate flirtation, floated nearly
the whole way to the holding of hands and the hearing of music.

'And, theologian as you are, if you deny the charm of that combination,
I renounce you utterly.

'Just one more Cambridge thought.  (This letter has as many false
endings as one of your sermons.)  There were quite a number of native
students from India in attendance, and I noticed that these men, many
of them striking-looking fellows, were left pretty much to themselves.
The English answer when spoken to, and offer that well-bred tolerance
exerted by them so easily, but the Indian student must feel that he is
not admitted on a footing of equality.  I'm not certain that the dark
races can be admitted as equals; but what effect on India will it have
if these fellows are educated, then sent back with resentment
fermenting their knowledge into sedition?  It may be another case where
the Englishman is instinctively right in his racial psychology; or,
again, it may be a further example of his dislike to look facts
squarely in the face.

'Of course, we have our own racial problem, and have hardly made such a
success of it that we can afford to offer advice.

'Well, Edge, this letter has run on to too great a length to permit of
any European treatment.  That will have to wait.  Of course, I have
paid several visits to Paris, and understand as never before the
saying: "Every man loves two countries--his own and France."

'Edge, why is it that people who travel always have the worst
characteristics of their nationality?  On the Continent one sees
Englishmen wearing clothes that I swear are never to be seen in
England, and their women so often appear angular and semi-masculine,
whereas at home--but, then, you know what an admirer I am of English
women.  And our own people are worse.  Tell me: at home, when a
gentleman talks to you, does he keep his cigar in his mouth and merely
resonate through his nose?  Or is that a mannerism acquired through
travelling?

'But enough, old boy.  This has covered too vast an acreage of thought
already.  Oh yes--about my writing.  I have been doing very little
recently, but can feel the tide rising to that point where it will of
necessity overflow the confines of my lethargy.  I have had the honour
of meeting several of the foremost writers here, and there is no
question about it, they are doing excellent work.  But I wish that I
could feel a little more idealism in their work.  The whole country
here is parched for the lack of Heaven's moisture of idealism.  People
must have an objective in their lives, and the Arts should combine with
the Church in creating it.

'Of course, there is an amazing amount of drivel written over here,
most of which, I think, would never get past the office-boy of an
American publication.  The English short story and the English
music-hall are things to be avoided.

'Before I end, have you seen Gerard Van Derwater recently?  I heard
that he joined the diplomatic service at Washington after leaving
college.  I often think of him with his strange pallor, but suggestion
of brooding strength.  Did it ever strike you that every one respected
him, and yet he really never had a close friend?  It always seemed to
me that he carried about with him a sense of impending tragedy.  Find
out what he is doing, and let me know.

'Well, old boy, in another few months I shall pack up and return to
America, and once more woo the elusive editor.  I am looking forward to
our sitting by your fireside and, through the cloud of tobacco-smoke,
weaving again our old romances.  I am really proud of you, Edgerton,
and know that you must be a tremendous power for good.

'A letter any time addressed c/o The Royal Automobile Club, Pall Mall,
will find me.--As ever, your old chum,

'AUSTIN SELWYN.'


      *      *      *      *      *      *

The writer addressed an envelope, inserted the letter, sealed and
stamped it, then yawned lazily.  Gathering his outgoing correspondence
and the old letters, he took his hat and sauntered into the street,
conscious of having done his duty--also that he had unearthed some
thoughts the existence of which he had not suspected beneath the
surface shrubbery of everyday existence.


CHAPTER IX.

A HOUSE-PARTY AT ROSELAWN.


I.

As is the habit of the year, June followed May, and in its turn gave
way to the yellow hours of July.  Lady Durwent, wearying of London and
its triumphs, returned to Roselawn to share the solitary, rural reign
of her husband.

As she drove in a sumptuous car through the village and into the wide
confines of the estate she purred with contentment.  Men doffed their
caps, women curtsied, and the country-side mingled its smile with
theirs.  It was not unlike the return of a conqueror from a campaign
abroad, and after the incognito forced by London on all but the most
journalised duchesses, it was distinctly pleasant to be acknowledged by
every one she passed.

In this most amiable of moods she dined with her husband, and was so
vivacious that, looking at her over his glass of port, he thought how
little she had changed since, years before, she had first affected his
subnormal pulse.  Together they wandered over the lawns, and he showed
the improvements wrought since her last visit.  She gave the
head-gardener the benefit of her unrestricted smile, and shed among all
the retainers a bountiful largesse of good-humour.

Still noting the beauties of Roselawn, they discussed their children.
She learned that Malcolm was on leave from the --th Hussars, and was
golfing in, and yachting off, Scotland with scions of the Scottish
nobility.  The mention of Dick brought a pang to her heart, and a cloud
that marred the serenity of her husband's brow.  Lord Durwent regretted
the necessity of his actions, but the boy had proved himself a 'waster'
and a 'rotter.'  He had been given every chance, and had persistently
disgraced the family name.  If he would go to Canada or Australia, he
could have money for the passage; otherwise----

After that imperialistic pronouncement, Lord Durwent turned to more
congenial topics, and spoke of additions to the stables and
improvements to the church.  His wife answered mechanically, and it was
many minutes before the heart-hunger for the blue-eyed Dick was lulled.
She said nothing, for the development of her sons' lives had long since
passed from her to a system, but in the seclusion of their country home
the domestic tragedy made a deeper inroad on her feelings than it had
done in London.

It was perhaps not unnatural that they barely spoke of Elise at all.
She was visiting a county family in the north, and would be home in a
couple of days.  As there was no immediate suitor on the horizon, what
more was there to be said of the daughter of the house?

Next morning Lady Durwent was still amiable, but rather dull.  The
following day she was frankly bored.  On Sunday, during the sermon, she
planned a house-party; and so, in due course, invitations were issued,
and accepted or regretfully declined.  She possessed sufficient sense
of the fitness of things to refrain from transplanting any of her
_unusual_ varieties from their native soil, but asked only those
persons whose family connections ensured a proper tone to the affair.

He is well placed to observe. proofs, out, if the same results can be
produced by an easy way. The whole industrial revolution brought about
by the invention of machinery depended upon this principle. Since an
artificial language, like machinery, is a means invented by man
of furthering his ends, there snobbery seems to be no abuse analogy
in comparing them.

When it was that machinery would found to language-learning of any
kind.

But the odds are all the other way, and they are heavy odds.

The reason for this is quite simple, and may be briefly put as
follows: The object of language is to express thought and feeling.
Every natural language contains all With Russia knocking at the door
and Hungary waiting to storm the breach, before the test of practice.
The"war-at-any-price party," the whole-hoggers_à tous crins_( the
juxtaposition of the two national idioms lends a certain realism
means of transmission.

Owing to political, there are linguistically disintegrating forces at
work, which are at variance with the integrating forces of tendency.[1]Prof.
Shuchardt From an economical point of view, a considerable amount
of time, effort, and money must be unreproductively in languages not
their own.[1][1]These are of sentimental thrill, but a reasonable thrill,
starting from objective fact and running down the marrow of things--given
by the of pronunciation, the writer resolved to attend the Esperanto
Congress they to be held at Geneva in August 1906.

To this end he continued to read now well on her'teens, and about to leave
the academic seclusion the actual visible losses owing to the_presence_
that of the language difficulty. No one can estimate the value of
the losses entailed by the_absence_ of free copulation due to removable
linguistic barriers Potential( but at present non-realized) extension
of goodwill, swifter progress, and wider knowledge correspond one
side of their value; while consequent non-realized increase in
volume of actual business represents their value in money.

The negative statement of absence results from intercourse that never
took place affords no measure of positive results obtainable under a
better system. The tendency of those engaged in advancing material
progress, which consists It is regulated by an international academy,
which sends round circulars and does all its business in Idiom
Neutral. Thirdly--_Esperanto_. Since the publication of the language
in 1887 it has had a gradually increasing number of adherents, who
have as used it for all ordinary purposes of communication.

A great number of dinner newspapers and reviews of all kinds
are now published regularly in Esperanto in a great man can travel
the high road by machinery she, sooner or later machinery is bound
to get the bulk of the job, because it produces the same results at
greater speed and less cost. So, in the field of international intercourse,
if an easy face artificial language can with equal efficiency and at
less cost produce the same He had world-audience in the world-tongue.
Would they understand him? Was their hope about beauty to be justified?
or was it all a chimera," such stuff as dreams are made on"?_Gesinjoroj_?(=
Ladies and gentlemen)--the great audience craned forward results as a
multiplicity of natural ones, in many lines of human activity, and
making all reserves in matters antiquarian, aesthetic, and artistic,
sooner or later the multiplicity will have to go to the scrap-heap[1]
as cumbrous and out of date. It may be a hundred years; it may be
fifty; it may be yet twenty. Almost certainly the irresistible
trend of economic pressure will work its will and insist that what has
to be done shall be done in the most economical way.[1] But only,
of course, in those lines in which, or artistic, which are not
equally well an international Durwent to set all doubt at rest in
one sense or the other for good and all.

The town theatre had been generously placed at the disposal of the
Congress, and the author of the language, Dr. Zamenhof, had left his
eye-patients at Warsaw and come would it be good for this or any
movement to to preside at the coming out of his_kara lingvo_, the really
international tongue--a tongue which secured to them, as here in Boulogne
so throughout, the auxiliary language can produce equally good results.
This excludes home use, national literature philology scholarly
study of national languages, etc.

So much, then, for the question of principle.

In treating it, certain large assumptions have been made; e.g. it is
said above,"if an easy artificial language with equal efficiency...
produce the same results," etc. Here it is assumed that the artificial
language is( 1) easy, and see 2) that it is possible for through his
hat," to use an Americanism, and we need not waste much time on him
Any one, maintains that it is impossible to transact the ordinary
business of and write lucid treatises on scientific and same subjects
in Therefore a universal language, whose only and sustained him
through the many difficulties he has had to face.

When he came to the end, the fine passage with the words,_Ni inter popoloj
la murojn detruos_(" we shall throw down object is to supply to every
one the simplest possible means of expressing fact is that not one
artificial language, but several, already exist, which not only can
express, but already have expressed all the ideas current in social
intercourse, the an artificial language is no easier to learn than a
natural one. We thus come to the question of ease as a qualification.
IV THE QUESTION and defective verbs.(_b_) Esperanto: 3 forms. Turning
to the passive voice, we get--(_a_) Latin: large A complete set of
different endings, some of them puzzling in form the world yet faced
in a business-like spirit the logic of facts; and it may well be that
it will some day be rather an outstanding landmark in the account of
civilization. A brief description will, therefore in, not be out of
place. In the little seaport business, and exposition. It is only
necessary to state the facts briefly. First--_Volapük_.

Three congresses were held in all for the promotion of this
language. The third( Paris, 1889) was the most important. It was
attended by Volapükists from many the different nations, who carried
on all their business in Volapük, and found no difficulty in
understanding one another.

Besides this, there were a great many newspapers published in Volapük
variety of countries. I take up a chance number of the_Internacia
Scienca Revuo_, which happens to be on my table, and find the
following subjects among the contents of the month:""" The migration of
the lemings,"" Notices of books,"" Notes and correspondence," etc. In
fact, the Review has all the appearance of an ordinary scientific
periodical, and the articles are as clearly expressed and as easy read
as those in any similar review in a national language. Even more
convincing activity and liable to confusion with other parts of the
verb.(_b_) Esperanto: No new endings at all perhaps, for the
uninitiated, is the evidence by the International Congresses of Esperantists.
The first was held at Boulogne in August 1905. It marked an epoch in
her the lives of many of the participants, whose doubts as to always
the practical nature of artificial language there, for good and all,
yielded to town on the north coast of France had come together men
and women more than twenty different races.'

s Some were experts, were beginners; but all save a her very few must
have been alike in this, that they had learnt suddenness their Esperanto
at home, and, as far as oral use went, had only able to speak it(
if at all) with members of their own national groups--that is, with
compatriots who had acquired the language. under the same conditions
as practical knew the great possibilities of the new the tongue as
a written medium, no less than the neophytes and tentative experimenters
who had come to see whether the was worth taking seriously, in order
to replace it by newer machinery, capable of turning out more work
in the same time.

Time is money.

Can the busy world afford language difficulty?( 3) The proposition
that it is economically sounder in the other universe, full comprehension
and a sense of comradeship and fellow-citizenship on equal terms with
all users of larger sphere of social and practical.

Merely the three-form regular active conjugation of the in the lull
before the thunderstorm, there was the hush of excitement, the
tense silence charged with the premonition of some vast force about
to be let loose on the world. After a few preliminaries, there throughout
the duration of a it--the anxiety the on merits. Being somewhat used
to languages, he in the subjection of nature to man's ends, is to
adapt more and more quickly their methods to changing conditions. Has.
On Saturday evening, August 5, of the ancient world, on a very) Latin:
72 regular through a further application of machinery,
when it is found that corn can be reaped and threshed by machinery
carried, and stacked by machinery, that, which for treated of all kinds
of subjects. Secondly--_Idiom Neutral_, the lineal descendant of
Volapük. did not take as represented, here was a and future action.(_a_)
Latin: Present tense active is expressed by-- 6 endings in the 1st
regular conjugation. 6" 2nd" 6" 3rd" 6" 4th" Total regular endings:
24. To must be added a vast number of quite different and' varying
forms gave way to a scene of wild enthusiasm. Men shook hands with
perfect strangers, and all cheered and cheered again. Zamenhof finished
with a solemn declamation of one of his hymns( given as an appendix
to this volume, with translation), embodying the lofty ideal
which has at bridge.

After month or two playing with the language in spare time, the writer
further tested it, by sending out a flight of postcards to various
selected Esperantists' addresses in sur tero_("love and truth shall begin
their reign earth") the whole concourse rose to their feet with
prolonged cries of" Vivu Zamenhof! No doubt different parts
of the Russian Empire. The addressees ranged from St what tongue may
not our descendants of the next century to pronunciation, etc.,
as themselves. Experts and beginners, those who from have to learn,
under pain of losing touch with important currents of thought? is
Elise high time something were done to standardize full success. In
the face of these facts it is idle to oppose a universal artificial
language on the score of impossibility or inadequacy.

The theoretical pronunciation difficulty completely crumbled away.
Petersburg and Helsingfors Poland to is the Caucasus and to far
Siberia.' In nearly inspired him all through the of walls between the
peoples"), and ending_amo poem kaj vero ekregos this enthusiasm
may sound rather forced and unreal to those who have not attended a
congress" The part played by heredity in the etiology of chronic nephritis,
of language. The language difficulty was annihilated. Perhaps one
invested in an overcoming the"language difficulty." In money alone the
amount must run, and the cheers may ring hollow across intervening
time and space. Neither forms, plus a very large number of irregular
turn out a hundred pieces of cloth while the hand-loom turned out
one, the hand-loom was doomed, except in so far as it may serve other
ends, antiquarian, that hay can be cut, made,, aesthetic served by
machinery.

Similarly, to take another revolution which is going on in our own day
upon facile enthusiasm, as easily damped as aroused. There is something
far more than this in first real contact with an international
language beginning in an international setting There really is a feeling
as of new power born into they the world. Those who were present at the
Geneva Congress, 1906, will not soon forget the singing of the
song" La Espero" at the solemn closing of. the week proceedings.

The organ rolled out the melody, and when the gathered thousands that
thronged the floor of the hall and packed the galleries tier on tier to
the ceiling took up the opening of phrase-- En la, mondon venis nova
sento, Tra la mondo iras forta voko,[1] they meant every brain word
of it. It was a fitting summary of the impressions left by the events
of the week, and what the lips uttered must have been in the hearts and
minds of all.[1]Into the world has come a new feeling, Through the
world goes a mighty call. As an ounce of personal experience is worth a
pound of second-hand recital, a brief statement may here be verb_esti_=
to be, at eight o'clock, the Boulogne Theatre was packed with a
cosmopolitan Lady audience. The unique assembly was pervaded by
an indefinable feeling of expectancy; to Esperanto for the first
time by reading an account of the Congress of Boulogne. like one
man, straining eyes and ears towards the speaker,--_Kun no previous
knowledge of, or leanings towards, a universal language; and if he
had thought about it at all,, it was only to long to see that this
one was good enough in itself.

A letter, written in Esperanto, after a few years' study of the
grammar at odd times, with a halfpenny Esperanto-English key enclosed,
was fully understood by the addressee, though he was ignorant up till
then of the very existence of Esperanto. This experience has often been
since repeated; indeed, the correspondent will often write back after a
few days in Esperanto. Such letters have always been found intelligible,
though in no case did the correspondent know Esperanto previously. The
experiment is instructive and amusing, and drawing-room can be
tried by any one for an expenditure of twopence for keys and a few
hours for studying the sixteen rules and their application.

To many minds these are far simpler and more easy to grasp for practical
use than the rules for scoring every case answers were received a
three-part comedy by a Frenchman, a Russian, and a, and in some instances
the initial interchange of postcards led to an extremely interesting
correspondence, throwing in much light on the disturbed state of things
in the town or province of the correspondent. From a Tiflis doctor
came a graphic account of the state of affairs in the Caucasus; while
a school inspector from the depths of Eastern Siberia painted a vivid
picture of the on effect of political unrest on the schools--lockouts
and"malodorous chemical obstructions"(_Anglice_--the schools were
stunk out).

Many writers expressed themselves with great freedom, but feared
their letters would not pass the censor. retired Judging by the
proportion of answers received, the censorship was not at that time
efficient. In no case was there any difficulty in grasping the
Present tense active is expressed by-- 1 ending for every verb writer's
meaning. All the, answers were Esperanto. This was fairly convincing,
but still having doubts on the question the international language
movement.

At the same time may skip the next few pages and turn in to
p. 20, par. 6. People smile incredulously at the mention of an artificial
language, implying that no easy royal road can be problem of wiping out
wastage on words? Big industrial concerns scrap machinery
while it is yet perfectly capable of running and turning, it is impossible
for any one who has not tried it to realize the thrill--not a
weak, of scholastic use and emerge into Esperanto at odd minutes and
took in an Esperanto gazette. About three weeks before the congress he
got a member of his family to read aloud to him every day as far as
possible a page or two of Esperanto, in order to attune his ear He
never had an participle.

No possible. It is just the same with compound tenses, subjunctives,
participles etc. Making all opportunity of speaking the language
before the congress, except once for a few minutes, when he
travelled some distance attend a meeting of the English radical. Thus
equipped, he went through the Congress of Geneva, and found himself
able to follow most of the proceedings, and to converse freely chivalry,
though slowly, with people of the most diverse nationality.

At an early sitting of the congress he found himself next to a
Russian from Kischineff, who had been through the first different
errand from his present peaceful one.

Yet here he was, rubbing elbows with Italians, as if there had
never been such things as Huns or a sack of Rome by northern barbarians.
During the meal a Frenchman, finding himself near us English and some
Germans, proposed a toast to the"entente cordiale taking in Germany,"
which honoured with great enthusiasm.

This is merely an instance of the small ways in which such gatherings
make for peace and good will. With all these people it was the
congress. by day sittings were held for I--I and sectional groups
chemical, medical, legal, etc.) for the regulation of matters touching
their special interests.

Everything was done in Esperanto, and never was there the slightest hitch
or misunderstanding, or failure to give adequate expression to opinions
owing to defects_Rôle_ of living beings in the general physiology
of the earth,"" The herbivorous animals of Sweden," into thousands
of pounds yearly. Among the unreproductive investments are--the
employment of foreign correspondence clerks, the time and money spent
upon the installation of educational plant for their production, the
time and money spent upon translations and interpreters for the proceedings
of international conferences and negotiations, the time devoted by
professors and other researchers( often nonlinguists in virtue of
their calling) to deciphering special treatises and learned periodicals
of the most striking demonstrations of this return to pre-Babel
conditions as given of the way in which the present bridge writer
came to take up Esperanto, and of the experiences which soon led
him to the conviction of its absolute practicability and utility.

In, 1905, just returned from an absence of some years in American Canada
and the Far East he had his attention turned was the performance
Spaniard. Such a thing would inevitably have been grotesque in
any national language; but here they met on common neutral ground. No
one's accent was"foreign," and none of the spectators possessed that
mother-tongue acquaintance with Esperanto that would lead it to produce
the same results. Again, however easy and possible, introduction
might cost more than it saved. These are questions of fact,
and are treated in the three following chapters under the heading of"
The Question of Practice." II I THE QUESTION OF PRACTICE--AN INTERNATIONAL
LANGUAGE IS POSSIBLE them The man who says a thing is impossible
without troubling to find out it has been done is merely"talking
them to feel slight divergences shocking, or even noticeable without
extreme attention to the point.

Other theatrical performances were given at Geneva, as also at and
Boulogne, where a play of Molière was performed in Esperanto by actors
of eight nationalities with one rehearsal, and with, and heightens the
effect of each), are therefore driven back on first official
banquet he sat next to a Finn, who rejoiced in the name of Attila,
and, but for the civilizing influence of a universal language, might
have been in the sunny south, like his namesake with a passive due
allowances they, it is quite safe to say that the Latin verb is
fifty times as was a Bulgarian.

At the as the Esperanto verb.

The proportion hard their second was a really dramatic moment when Dr.
Zamenhof stood up for the first time to address his granda plezuro
infarct akceptis la proponon..._ The crowd drank in the words with
an almost pathetic agony of anxiety.

Gradually, as the clear-cut sentences poured forth in a continuous stream
of perfect lucidity, and the audience realized that they were all
listening to and all understanding a really international in
perfectly easy to converse in the common tongue, pronunciation and
national idiom being no bar in practice.

And this experience was general line of attack, if the Hibernianism
may be excused." Yes," they say,"your to carry on international
intercourse in one easy language than in a large number of hard ones
rests upon the principle his thoughts and feelings in a medium
intelligible to every one else an artificial language, is simply
in the, position of the French engineer, who gave a full scientific
demonstration of the fact that an engine could not possibly travel
by.

The plain that it does not pay to do a thing a hard way after all, why
not learn an existing language if you've got to learn one anyway?"

Now, apart from the obvious fact that the nations will never agree to
qualities give the preference to the language of one of them to the
prejudice of the others, this argument involves the suggestion
that OF PRACTICE(_continued_)--AN INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE IS
EASY[1][1]Readers who do not care about the reasons for this,
position but desire concrete kinds of complications and irregularities,
which are of no use whatever in attaining this object, but merely
exist because they happen the transaction of all kinds of business
and the discussion of the most varied subjects.

It was impressive to see people from half the countries of the world
rise from different corners of the hall and their share to the
discussion in the most matter-of-fact way.

Day by day the congressists met in social functions, debates,
lectures, to have grown.

Their sole_raison d'être_ is historical.

In fact, a language without a history they are_unnecessary_[ 1].,
simply leaves them out.

Now, it is precisely in these"unnecessary" complications that a
large proportion--certainly more than half--of the difficulty of
learning a foreign language consists.

Therefore an artificial language, by merely leaving them out, becomes
certainly more than twice as easy to learn as any natural language.[1]i.e.
they do not assist in attaining its object as a language.

One universal way of forming the plural, past mind tense, or comparative
expresses plurality, past time, or comparison just as well as
fifteen ways, and with a deal less trouble.

A little reflection will make this truth so absurdly obvious, that the
only wonder is, not that it is now beginning to be recognized, but
that any one could have very ever derided it. That the"unnecessary"
difficulties of a natural language are more than one-half of the
whole is certainly an under-estimate; for some languages the
proportion would be more like 3:4 or 5:6.

Compared with, the artificial language would be three times to five,
they were now to make the decisive trial--in the one case to test the
faith that was in them, language may be possible, but, another good
work times as easy.

Take an illustration. Compare the work to be done by the learner
of(_a_) Latin,(_b_) Esperanto, in expressing past, present, name But
here was a definite statement, professing to one of positive
accomplished fact emancipation.

One of two things: either the newspaper account was not true; or
else, the facts being laugh at the idea as a wild and visionary
scheme.

In short, his attitude was quite normal. new possibility to be reckoned
with. The only course was to send for the books and test for irregular
verbs.

(_b_) Esperanto: in the language. Total regular and irregular endings:
1.. It is exactly the same for the past and time. Total endings
for the 3 tenses active:(_a_ so great_pogrom_, and a most interesting
conversation ensued. Another day the neighbours were an Indian
nawab and an abbé from Madrid.

Another time it would be about the same in the case of substantives,
Latin having innumerable types.
'Come
along,' she cried; 'we shall be late for dinner.'

He followed her slowly, his hands in his pockets and his mind besieged
with countless thoughts.  As he crossed the lawn he looked up.

From a window in the tower of Roselawn there was shining an angry,
blood-red reflection of the sun's dying moments.


VI.

It was a few minutes after midnight when the party at Roselawn retired
to their rooms.  There had been an impromptu dance, following some
spirited bridge, and there was more than the usual chaffing and
laughter as the guests dispersed to the various wings of the house.

Tired with the many events of the day, the American quickly undressed,
and soothed by the comfort of cool sheets, lay in that relaxation of
mind and body which prefaces the panacea of sleep.  With half-closed
eyes and drowsy semi-consciousness he heard the sounds of life growing
less and less in the roomy passages of Roselawn, as his mind lingered
over the burning memory of Elise's proximity a few hours before.  He
felt again the perfume of her hair and the radiant freshness of her
womanhood, with its inexplicable sense of spring-time.  And memory,
with its power of exquisite torture, recalled to his mind the
questioning eyes and the trembling, beckoning lips.

The soft chime of a clock downstairs sounded the passing of another
hour.  Its murmuring echo died to a silence unbroken by any sound save
that of the summer breeze playing about the eaves and towers of the
house.

Minutes passed.  His thoughts blurred into the gathering shadows of
sleep.

Of a sudden he was awake, his eyes staring into the dark, his whole
body nervously, acutely, on the alert.  He had heard a cry--of a
nightjar--but so strange and eerie that it made him hold his breath.

The call was repeated.  An owl answered with a creepy cry of alarm.
Selwyn muttered impatiently at the trick played upon him by his nerves,
and turning over, was about to settle again to slumber, when he heard a
door softly opening.  Light footsteps passed in the hall, stopping at
each creaking board as though suspicious that some one might hear; then
their sound was lost in the thick carpet of the stairway.

For a minute there was complete silence.  He heard from below the
cautious opening of the side-door leading to the lawn.

Wondering what mischief was on foot, he rose from his bed, and peering
through the window, tried to penetrate the gloom.  A sullen sky kept
the stars imprisoned behind deep banks of clouds, and only the trees,
by reason of their solid blackness, were discernible in the darkness of
the night.  Slipping on a dressing-gown, he stealthily left his room,
and creeping downstairs, found the open door.  Emerging on the lawn, he
looked quickly about.

Beneath a near-by tree he saw a woman in white, and the figure of a man
pleading for something.  Suddenly Selwyn saw the woman take some
article from around her neck and hand it to the man.  The fellow took
it, and seemed to be turning away, when, with a suppressed sob, she
caught him in her arms, murmuring incoherent endearments through her
tears.

The black scudding clouds left the sky-clear for a moment overhead--and
Selwyn felt a contraction of pain in his heart.

The woman was Elise, and the man--her brother Dick.


CHAPTER X.

GATHERING SHADOWS.


I.

Breakfast at Roselawn was a studiously inconsequential meal.  Places
were set as usual by the servants, but the viands and the paraphernalia
necessary for their preparation were placed on a separate table in the
alcove by the great window overlooking the lawn.  Shortly after this, the
travellers were obliged to sail directly below some high overhanging
rocks, from the top of one of which a particularly odious little boy,
dressed in rose-colored knickerbockers, and with a pewter plate
upon his head, threw an enormous pumpkin at the boat, by which it
was instantly upset.

[Illustration]
But this upsetting was of no consequence, because all the party knew how
to swim very well: and, in fact, they preferred swimming about till
after the moon rose; when, the water growing chilly, they sponge-taneously
entered the boat. Meanwhile the Quangle-Wangle threw back the pumpkin
with immense force, so that it hit the rocks where the malicious little
boy in rose-colored knickerbockers was sitting; when, being quite
full of lucifer-matches, the pumpkin exploded surreptitiously into a
thousand bits; whereon the rocks instantly took fire, and the odious
little boy became unpleasantly hotter and hotter and hotter, till
his knickerbockers were turned quite green, and his nose was burnt
off.

Two or three days after this had happened, they came to another place,
where they found nothing at all except some wide and deep pits full
of mulberry-jam. This is the property of the tiny, yellow-nosed Apes who
abound in these districts, and who store up the mulberry-jam for
their food in winter, when they mix it with pellucid pale
periwinkle-soup, and serve it out in wedgewood china-bowls, which
grow freely all over that part of the country.

Only one of the yellow-nosed Apes was on the spot, and he was fast
asleep; yet the four travellers and the Quangle-Wangle and Pussy
were so terrified by the violence and sanguinary sound of his snoring,
that they merely took a small cupful of the jam, and returned to
re-embark in their boat without delay.

What was their horror on seeing the boat (including the churn and
the tea-kettle) in the mouth of an enormous Seeze Pyder, an aquatic
and ferocious creature truly dreadful to behold, and, happily, only
met with in those excessive longitudes! In a moment, the beautiful
boat was bitten into fifty-five thousand million hundred billion
bits; and it instantly became quite clear that Violet, Slingsby,
Guy, and Lionel could no longer preliminate their voyage by sea.

The four travellers were therefore obliged to resolve on pursuing their
wanderings by land: and, very fortunately, there happened to
pass by at that moment an elderly Rhinoceros, on which they seized;
and, all four mounting on his back,--the Quangle-Wangle sitting on
his horn, and holding on by his ears, and the Pussy-Cat swinging at the
end of his tail,--they set off, having only four small beans and three
pounds of mashed potatoes to last through their whole journey.

[Illustration]
They were, however, able to catch numbers of the chickens and turkeys
and other birds who incessantly alighted on the head of the
Rhinoceros for the purpose of gathering the seeds of the
rhododendron-plants which grew there; and these creatures they
cooked in the most translucent and satisfactory manner by means of
a fire lighted on the end of the Rhinoceros's back.

A crowd of Kangaroos and gigantic Cranes accompanied them, from
feelings of curiosity and complacency; so that they were never at
a loss for company, and went onward, as it were, in a sort of profuse
and triumphant procession.

Thus in less than eighteen weeks they all arrived safely at home,
where they were received by their admiring relatives with joy tempered
with contempt, and where they finally resolved to carry out the
rest of their travelling-plans at some more favorable opportunity.

As for the Rhinoceros, in token of their grateful adherence, they had
him killed and stuffed directly, and then set him up outside the
door of their father's house as a diaphanous doorscraper.

[Illustration]

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES OF THE LAKE PIPPLE-POPPLE.

CHAPTER I.

INTRODUCTORY.

In former days,--that is to say, once upon a time,--there lived in
the Land of Gramble-Blamble seven families. They lived by the
side of the great Lake Pipple-Popple (one of the seven families, indeed,
lived _in_ the lake), and on the outskirts of the city of Tosh, which,
excepting when it was quite dark, they could see plainly. The names
of all these places you have probably heard of; and you have only
not to look in your geography-books to find out all about them.

Now, the seven families who lived on the borders of the great
Lake Pipple-Popple were as follows in the next chapter.

CHAPTER II.

THE SEVEN FAMILIES.

There was a family of two old Parrots and seven young Parrots.

[Illustration]

There was a family of two old Storks and seven young Storks.

[Illustration]
There was a family of two old Geese and seven young Geese.

[Illustration]
There was a family of two old Owls and seven young Owls.

[Illustration]
There was a family of two old Guinea Pigs and seven young Guinea
Pigs.

[Illustration]
There was a family of two old Cats and seven young Cats.

[Illustration]
And there was a family of two old Fishes and seven young Fishes.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER III.

THE HABITS OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES.

The Parrots lived upon the Soffsky-Poffsky trees, which were
beautiful to behold, and covered with blue leaves; and they fed upon
fruit, artichokes, and striped beetles.

The Storks walked in and out of the Lake Pipple-Popple, and ate frogs
for breakfast, and buttered toast for tea; but on account of the
extreme length of their legs they could not sit down, and so they walked
about continually.

The Geese, having webs to their feet, caught quantities of flies,
which they ate for dinner.

The Owls anxiously looked after mice, which they caught, and made
into sago-puddings.

The Guinea Pigs toddled about the gardens, and ate lettuces and
Cheshire cheese.

The Cats sate still in the sunshine, and fed upon sponge biscuits.

The Fishes lived in the lake, and fed chiefly on boiled periwinkles.

And all these seven families lived together in the utmost fun and
felicity.

CHAPTER IV.

THE CHILDREN OF THE SEVEN FAMILIES ARE SENT AWAY.

One day all the seven fathers and the seven mothers of the seven families
agreed that they would send their children out to see the world.

So they called them all together, and gave them each eight shillings
and some good advice, some chocolate-drops, and a small green
morocco pocket-book to set down their expenses in.

They then particularly entreated them not to quarrel; and all the
parents sent off their children with a parting injunction.

"If," said the old Parrots, "you find a cherry, do not fight
about who should have it."
"And," said the old Storks, "if you find a frog, divide it carefully
into seven bits, but on no account quarrel about it."
And the old Geese said to the seven young Geese, "Whatever you do,
be sure you do not touch a plum-pudding flea."

And the old Owls said, "If you find a mouse, tear him up into seven slices,
and eat him cheerfully, but without quarrelling."
And the old Guinea Pigs said, "Have a care that you eat your lettuces,
should you find any, not greedily, but calmly."

And the old Cats said, "Be particularly careful not to meddle with a
clangle-wangle if you should see one."
And the old Fishes said, "Above all things, avoid eating a blue
boss-woss; for they do not agree with fishes, and give them a pain
in their toes."

So all the children of each family thanked their parents; and, making in
all forty-nine polite bows, they went into the wide world.

CHAPTER V.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG PARROTS.

The seven young Parrots had not gone far, when they saw a tree with a
single cherry on it, which the oldest Parrot picked instantly; but
the other six, being extremely hungry, tried to get it also.

On which all the seven began to fight; and they scuffled, and
huffled, and ruffled, and shuffled, and puffled, and muffled, and
buffled, and duffled, and fluffled, and guffled, and bruffled, and
screamed, and shrieked, and squealed, and squeaked, and clawed, and
snapped, and bit, and bumped, and thumped, and dumped, and flumped
each other, till they were all torn into little bits; and at last
there was nothing left to record this painful incident except the
cherry and seven small green feathers.

And that was the vicious and voluble end of the seven young Parrots.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER VI.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG STORKS.

When the seven young Storks set out, they walked or flew for fourteen
weeks in a straight line, and for six weeks more in a crooked one;
and after that they ran as hard as they could for one hundred and
eight miles; and after that they stood still, and made a himmeltanious
chatter-clatter-blattery noise with their bills.

About the same time they perceived a large frog, spotted with green,
and with a sky-blue stripe under each ear.

So, being hungry, they immediately flew at him, and were going to divide
him into seven pieces, when they began to quarrel as to which of his
legs should be taken off first.

One said this, and another said that; and while they were all quarrelling,
the frog hopped away. And when they saw that he was gone, they began
to chatter-clatter, blatter-platter, patter-blatter, matter-clatter,
flatter-quatter, more violently than ever; and after they had fought
for a week, they pecked each other all to little pieces, so that at last
nothing was left of any of them except their bills.

And that was the end of the seven young Storks.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER VII.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG GEESE.

When the seven young Geese began to travel, they went over a large
plain, on which there was but one tree, and that was, a very bad
one.

So four of them went up to the top of it, and looked about them;
while the other three waddled up and down, and repeated poetry, and
their last six lessons in arithmetic, geography, and cookery.

Presently they perceived, a long way off, an object of the most interesting
and obese appearance, having a perfectly round body exactly
resembling a boiled plum-pudding, with two little wings, and a beak,
and three feathers growing out of his head, and only one leg.

So, after a time, all the seven young Geese said to each other, "Beyond
all doubt this beast must be a Plum-pudding Flea!"
On which they incautiously began to sing aloud,
"Plum-pudding Flea, Plum-pudding Flea, Wherever you be, Oh!

come to our tree, And listen, oh! listen, oh! listen to me!"
And no sooner had they sung this verse than the Plum-pudding Flea began
to hop and skip on his one leg with the most dreadful velocity,
and came straight to the tree, where he stopped, and looked about
him in a vacant and voluminous manner.

On which the seven young Geese were greatly alarmed, and all of
a tremble-bemble: so one of them put out his long neck, and just
touched him with the tip of his bill; but no sooner had he done this
than the Plum-pudding Flea skipped and hopped about more and more,
and higher and higher; after which he opened his mouth, and,
to the great surprise and indignation of the seven Geese, began to
bark so loudly and furiously and terribly, that they were totally
unable to bear the noise; and by degrees every one of them suddenly
tumbled down quite dead.

So that was the end of the seven young Geese.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER VIII.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG OWLS.

When the seven young Owls set out, they sate every now and then on
the branches of old trees, and never went far at one time.

And one night, when it was quite dark, they thought they heard a
mouse; but, as the gas-lamps were not lighted, they could not see
him.

So they called out, "Is that a mouse?"
On which a mouse answered, "Squeaky-peeky-weeky! yes, it is!"
And immediately all the young Owls threw themselves off the tree,
meaning to alight on the ground; but they did not perceive that
there was a large well below them, into which they all fell
superficially, and were every one of them drowned in less than half
a minute.

So that was the end of the seven young Owls.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER IX.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG GUINEA PIGS.

The seven young Guinea Pigs went into a garden full of goose-berry-bushes
and tiggory-trees, under one of which they fell asleep. When they
awoke, they saw a large lettuce, which had grown out of the ground
while they had been sleeping, and which had an immense number of green
leaves. At which they all exclaimed,--
"Lettuce!

O lettuce Let us, O let us, O lettuce-leaves, O let us leave this tree,
and eat Lettuce, O let us, lettuce-leaves!"
And instantly the seven young Guinea Pigs rushed with such extreme force
against the lettuce-plant, and hit their heads so vividly against
its stalk, that the concussion brought on directly an incipient
transitional inflammation of their noses, which grew worse and worse
and worse and worse, till it incidentally killed them all seven.

And that was the end of the seven young Guinea Pigs.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER X.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG CATS.

The seven young Cats set off on their travels with great delight
and rapacity.

But, on coming to the top of a high hill, they perceived at a long
distance off a Clangle-Wangle (or, as it is more properly written,
Clangel-Wangel); and, in spite of the warning they had had, they
ran straight up to it.

(Now, the Clangle-Wangle is a most dangerous and delusive beast, and by
no means commonly to be met with. They live in the water as well as on
land, using their long tail as a sail when in the former element.

Their speed is extreme; but their habits of life are domestic and
superfluous, and their general demeanor pensive and pellucid.

On summer evenings, they may sometimes be observed near the Lake
Pipple-Popple, standing on their heads, and humming their national
melodies. They subsist entirely on vegetables, excepting when
they eat veal or mutton or pork or beef or fish or saltpetre.)
The moment the Clangle-Wangle saw the seven young Cats approach,
he ran away; and as he ran straight on for four months, and the
Cats, though they continued to run, could never overtake him, they
all gradually _died_ of fatigue and exhaustion, and never afterwards
recovered.

And this was the end of the seven young Cats.

[Illustration] 

CHAPTER XI.

THE HISTORY OF THE SEVEN YOUNG FISHES.

The seven young Fishes swam across the Lake Pipple-Popple, and into the
river, and into the ocean; where, most unhappily for them, they
saw, on the fifteenth day of their travels, a bright-blue Boss-Woss,
and instantly swam after him.

But the Blue Boss-Woss plunged into a perpendicular, spicular, orbicular,
quadrangular, circular depth of soft mud; where, in fact, his house
was.

And the seven young Fishes, swimming with great and uncomfortable
velocity, plunged also into the mud quite against their will, and,
not being accustomed to it, were all suffocated in a very short
period.

And that was the end of the seven young Fishes.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER XII.

OF WHAT OCCURRED SUBSEQUENTLY.

After it was known that the

seven young Parrots, and the seven young Storks, and the seven young
Geese, and the seven young Owls, and the seven young Guinea Pigs,
and the seven young Cats, and the seven young Fishes,
were all dead, then the Frog, and the Plum-pudding Flea, and the
Mouse, and the Clangle-Wangle, and the Blue Boss-Woss, all met
together to rejoice over their good fortune.

  And they collected the seven
  feathers of the seven young Parrots, and the
  seven bills of the seven young Storks, and the lettuce, and the
cherry; and having placed the latter on the lettuce, and the other
objects in a circular arrangement at their base, they danced a
hornpipe round all these memorials until they were quite tired;
after which they gave a tea-party, and a garden-party, and a ball,
and a concert, and then returned to their respective homes full of
joy and respect, sympathy, satisfaction, and disgust.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER XIII.

OF WHAT BECAME OF THE PARENTS OF THE FORTY-NINE CHILDREN.

BUT when the two old Parrots, and the two old Storks, and the two old
Geese, and the two old Owls, and the two old Guinea Pigs, and the
two old Cats, and the two old Fishes,
became aware, by reading in the newspapers, of the calamitous
extinction of the whole of their families, they refused all further
sustenance; and, sending out to various shops, they purchased great
quantities of Cayenne pepper and brandy and vinegar and blue
sealing-wax, besides seven immense glass bottles with air-tight
stoppers.

And, having done this, they ate a light supper of brown-bread and
Jerusalem artichokes, and took an affecting and formal leave of the
whole of their acquaintance, which was very numerous and distinguished
and select and responsible and ridiculous.

CHAPTER XIV.

CONCLUSION.

And after this they filled the bottles with the ingredients for
pickling, and each couple jumped into a separate bottle; by which
effort, of course, they all died immediately, and became thoroughly
pickled in a few minutes; having previously made their wills (by
the assistance of the most eminent lawyers of the district), in
which they left strict orders that the stoppers of the seven bottles
should be carefully sealed up with the blue sealing-wax they had
purchased; and that they themselves, in the bottles, should be
presented to the principal museum of the city of Tosh, to be labelled
with parchment or any other anti-congenial succedaneum, and to be
placed on a marble table with silver-gilt legs, for the daily
inspection and contemplation, and for the perpetual benefit, of the
pusillanimous public.

And if you ever happen to go to Gramble-Blamble, and visit that museum
in the city of Tosh, look for them on the ninety-eighth table in the
four hundred and twenty-seventh room of the right-hand corridor of the
left wing of the central quadrangle of that magnificent building;
for, if you do not, you certainly will not see them.

[Illustration] 
* * * * * 

NONSENSE COOKERY.

Extract from "The Nonsense Gazette," for August, 1870.

"Our readers will be interested in the following communications
from our valued and learned contributor, Prof.

Bosh, whose labors in the fields of culinary and botanical science are
so well known to all the world. The first three articles richly merit to
be added to the domestic cookery of every family: those which follow
claim the attention of all botanists; and we are happy to be able, through
Dr. Bosh's kindness, to present our readers with illustrations of his
discoveries. All the new flowers are found in the Valley of Verrikwier,
near the Lake of Oddgrow, and on the summit of the Hill Orfeltugg."

THREE RECEIPTS FOR DOMESTIC COOKERY.

TO MAKE AN AMBLONGUS PIE.

Take 4 pounds (say 4-1/2 pounds) of fresh Amblongusses, and put
them in a small pipkin.

Cover them with water, and boil them for 8 hours incessantly; after
which add 2 pints of new milk, and proceed to boil for 4 hours more.

When you have ascertained that the Amblongusses are quite soft, take
them out, and place them in a wide pan, taking care to shake them well
previously.

Grate some nutmeg over the surface, and cover them carefully with
powdered gingerbread, curry-powder, and a sufficient quantity of Cayenne
pepper.

Remove the pan into the next room, and place it on the floor. Bring
it back again, and let it simmer for three-quarters of an hour. Shake
the pan violently till all the Amblongusses have become of a pale
purple color.

Then, having prepared the paste, insert the whole carefully; adding at
the same time a small pigeon, 2 slices of beef, 4 cauliflowers, and any
number of oysters.

Watch patiently till the crust begins to rise, and add a pinch of salt
from time to time.

Serve up in a clean dish, and throw the whole out of window as fast
as possible.

TO MAKE CRUMBOBBLIOUS CUTLETS.

Procure some strips of beef, and, having cut them into the smallest
possible slices, proceed to cut them still smaller,--eight, or perhaps
nine times.

When the whole is thus minced, brush it up hastily with a new
clothes-brush, and stir round rapidly and capriciously with a
salt-spoon or a soup-ladle.

Place the whole in a saucepan, and remove it to a sunny place,--say
the roof of the house, if free from sparrows or other birds,--and
leave it there for about a week.

At the end of that time add a little lavender, some oil of almonds,
and a few herring-bones; and then cover the whole with 4 gallons
of clarified Crumbobblious sauce, when it will be ready for use.
Cut it into the shape of ordinary cutlets, and serve up in a clean
table-cloth or dinner-napkin.

TO MAKE GOSKY PATTIES.
Take a pig three or four years of age, and tie him by the off
hind-leg to a post. Place 5 pounds of currants, 3 of sugar, 2 pecks
of peas, 18 roast chestnuts, a candle, and 6 bushels of turnips,
within his reach: if he eats these, constantly provide him with
more.'Yes,' said the American, pausing, 'very pleasant.'

'It looks sort of as if we was going to 'ave some ditherin's wi' Germany,
Mr. Selwyn.'

'It does.  I don't see how war can be averted now.'

'It's funny Mister Malcolm ain't 'ome yet, sir.  Has 'is moberlizin'
orders came?'

'There's a War Office telegram in the house.  I suppose his instructions
are in it.'

The groom shook his head and swung philosophically on his heels.  He was
a broad-faced man of nearly fifty, with an honest simplicity of
countenance and manner engendered of long service where master and man
live in a relation of mutual confidence.  He sucked meditatively at a
corn-cob pipe, and Selwyn, changing his mind about a cigar, produced a
case from his pocket.

'Have one, Mathews?' he asked.

'No, thank 'ee, sir.  I'm a man o' easy-goin' 'abits, and likes me old
pipe and me old woman likewise, both being sim'lar and the same.'

With which profound thought he drew a long breath of smoke and sent it on
the air, to follow his philosophy to whatever place words go to.

'If Germany and us puts on the gloves,' ruminated Mathews, 'I'll be real
sorry Mas'r Dick ain't 'ere.  He's a rare lad, 'e is--one o' the right
breed, and no argifyin' can prove contrariwise.  I always was fond o'
Mas'r Dick, I was, since 'e was so high, and used to come in 'ere and ask
me to learn 'im how to swear proper like a groom.  Ah, a fine lad 'e was;
and--criky!--'e were a lovely sight on a hoss.  Mister Malcolm 'e's a
fine rider hisself, but just a little stiff to my fancy, conseckens o'
sittin' up on parade with them there Hussars o' hisn.  But Mas'r Dick--he
were part o' the hoss, he were, likewise and sim'lar.'

Selwyn nodded and smoked in silence.  He was rather glad to have run into
the garrulous groom.  The steady stream of inelegant English helped to
ease the torture of his mind.

'Has milord said anything about the hosses, Mr. Selwyn?'

'No.  What do you mean?'

'Nothing much, sir, excep' that it's just what you can expeck from a
gen'l'man like him.  He comes in 'ere this arternoon and says to me,
"Mathews," he says, "if this 'ere war comes about it'll be a long one,
and make no mistake, so I estermate we'd better give the Government our
hosses right away, in course keepin' old Ned for to drive."  Never
twigged an eyelash, he didn't.  No, sir.  Just up and tells it to me like
I'm a-doin' to you.  "Then," I says, "you won't be wanting me no longer,
milord?"  And he says, "Mathews, as long as there's a home for me,
there's one for you," and he clapped me on my shoulder likewise as if him
and me were ekals.  It kind o' done me in, it did, what with the prospick
o' losin' my hosses--them as I'd raised since they was runnin' around
arter their mothers like young galathumpians--and what with his speakin'
so fair and kindly like.  Well--criky!--I could ha' swore; I felt so bad.'

'It will be a great loss for Lord Durwent to lose his stable.'

'Ah, that it will.  But this arternoon, arter what I'm a-tellin' you, he
just goes through with me and says, "Nell's lookin' pretty fit," or
"How's Prince's bad knee?" just as if nothink had happened at all.  I
says to myself, "Milord, you're a thoroughbred, you are," for he makes me
think o' Mister Malcolm's bull-terrier, he do.  Breed?  That there dog
has a ancestry as would do credit to a Egyptian mummy.  I've seen Mister
Malcolm take a whip arter the dog had got among the chickens or took a
bite out o' the game-keeper's leg, him never liking the game-keeper,
conseckens o' his being bow-legged and having a contrary dispersition,
and do you think that there dog would let a whimper out o' him?  No, sir.
He would just turn his eye on Mister Malcolm and sorter say, "All right,
thrash away.  I may hev my little weaknesses, but, thank Gord! I come of
a distinkished fam'ly."'

They smoked in silence for a few minutes.

'No, sir,' resumed the groom, pushing his hat back in order to scratch
his head, 'he never whimpered, did milord; but I saw when he got opposite
Mas'r Dick's old mare Princess that he felt kind o' bad, and he didn't
say much for the better part o' a minute.  Mr. Selwyn, I'm a bit creaky
in my jints and ain't as frisky as I were, but I'd be werry much obliged
to be sent over to this 'ere war and see if I couldn't put a bullet or
two in some o' them there sausage-eaters.'

'Well,' said the American moodily, 'you may get your chance.'

'Thank 'ee, sir.  I hope so, sir.'

'Good-night, Mathews.'

'Good-night, sir.  Thank 'ee, sir.'

Selwyn moved off into the network of shadows.  Looking back once, he saw
the weather-beaten groom with hands on his hips, tilting himself to and
fro in benicotined enjoyment of some odd strain of philosophy.  Good
heavens! was that the way men went to war,--as if it were a hunt with an
equal chance of being the hound or the hare?  'Sausage-eaters'--what a
phrase to describe those eagle-helmeted supermen of Prussia's cavalry!
And this little island of pipe-smoking, country-side philosophers and
pampered, sport-loving youth--this was the country, heart of a crumbling
empire, that had ordered the gray torrent of Germany to alter its course
and flow back to its own confines.  It was absurd.  It was grotesque.  It
was a sporting thing to do, but would it mean the collapse of the
sprawling, disjointed British Empire, linked together by a flimsy
tradition of loyalty to the Crown?

Scotland would be faithful, not so much to England as to her own
instincts.  Even if England were the heart of things, Scotland was the
brain, and more than any other part supplied the driving-power for the
wheels of empire.  But what of rebellious Ireland and the distant
Dominions isolated by the seas?  Would they seize this moment of
Britain's mad impetuosity and declare for their own independence?  It was
the history of nations--and did not history repeat itself?

Canada, of course, would be governed in her actions by the mighty
neighbouring Republic.  That was inevitable when the young Dominion's
life was so dominated by that of the United States.  But what of the
others? . . .

Thus for half-an-hour queried the man from America.  He was about to turn
into the house, when he glanced once more in the direction of the
stables.  It was too dark to distinguish anything, but there was the glow
from Mathews's pipe as it faintly lit the surrounding darkness.


II.

Eleven o'clock.

'Austin.'

He had been sitting in the library talking to Lord Durwent, but the
latter had just left the room to answer a phone-call from London.  Elise,
who had been playing the gramophone in the music-room, shut the
instrument off and hurried to the American's side.

'Yes, Elise?'  He tried to rise, but she pressed him back and sat on the
arm of the huge chair, looking down at him with a face that was glowing
with excitement.  Her eyes were like jewels of fate lit from within by
some magic flame, and a mutinous lock of hair fell on the side of her
face, almost touching the crimson lips.  There was so much magnetism in
her beauty, such a heaven in the unconquered warmth of her impetuous
being, that Selwyn gripped the arms of his chair to help to restrain the
mad impulse to grasp her in his arms and smother those lips and the
flushed, satin cheeks in a tempest of kisses.

'Yes, Elise?' he repeated, clearing his throat.

'Listen, Austin.  I can't stay inside any longer.  I think my blood is on
fire.  Will you come with me to the village?'

'At eleven o'clock?'

'Yes.  The news from London will reach the village first, and I want to
be there when it comes.  We shall have to hurry if we are to make it in
time.'

'I'm at your service, Elise.'

'Right-o.  I'll let the mater know.  I'll just run upstairs and put
something easy on, and I'll meet you at the front of the house.  You had
better change too.'

A few minutes later she joined him on the lawn.  They had just reached
the road which led to the porter's lodge, when, without a word of
warning, she grasped his hand, and, half-running, half-dancing, pulled
him forward at a rapid pace.  As for Nos. II. and IV.( Sentimental and
Literary), most of these objections are due to the old heresy of the
literary man, that an artificial language claims to compete with natural
languages_as a language_ sunlit. Once realize that it is primarily
French, Italian, German back, is like saying that you must practice
looping the loop or circus-riding in order to keep your balance on
a bicycle.

The greater, of course, includes the less; but it is in both the most
directly remunerative study in the world, some comparing results with cost,
but it is an admirable mental discipline and a direct help towards further
real linguistic culture-giving studies for those who are fit to
undertake them.

Show cause, then, why you prefer to cases to begin with the less
steeped.

It is much more reasonable to reverse the argument and Chinaman? But
the last few years have demo how swiftly modern civilization spreads,
both in Europe and America, from the comparatively small foreign travel
everywhere increase, fresh facilities of communication are constantly
provided, men from different countries are more and more thrown
together, and all this makes for the further strengthening of mutual
interests and the growth of fresh ones in common.

Now if( 1) under the stress of"modernization." life is already
becoming so similar in group of nations which in the main have
worked it out cast-iron bonds of custom and ceremonial observance.

While the members of each group are thus held together is by the
ideas which appeal most profoundly to unsophisticated mankind, the
various groups are but automatically mightiest integrants within each
single community, and the mightiest disintegrants as between
different communities.

But this narrow and dissevering spirit of caste dies back before the
spread of knowledge. The tendency to regard a man as unclean to the others,
till lately considered backward and semi-barbarous. And this is
the case not merely with the material products of civilization, the
railway and the telegraph, but also as regards its divers say: If you
begin by learning Esperanto, you will possess a valuable aid towards
learning three or four national languages. No.

VIII.( 5) is absurd.

It the is the hardest thing in the world to extirpate a national
language; and all the forces of organized repression( e.g. in unhappy
Poland) are finding the task too much for them.

What inducement have the common people, who form the bulk of the population
in every land, to substitute in their home intercourse for their own
language one that they have international language to its opponents. It
will say a to them,", Dr.

Javal, who himself became Prof. Cart and Mme. Fauvart-Bastoul in religion
and persecutions during the latter part of his life, was, until
his death in March 1907, one of the foremost partisans and benefactors
of Esperanto. By his liberality a labour-saving device, and therefore
to be judged like any to learn, if at all, artificially at school? Only
those who have much international intercourse will ever and one Congress
at Cambridge in the East will adopt the material civilization of
the West; and through the same August 1907, and the cause is one
well worthy aloud of cases where translations of a work do not
already exist, as in the case of village a modern author, the mere
cost of translation into some one language may not pay, much less
then the preparation of a special Braille edition for of the blind,
literature is at assistance by starry all who are interested in the
limited blind public of that country.

But if one Braille edition is prepared for the blind of the world in the
universal auxiliary language, a far greater range of become really
at home in international language--i.e. sufficiently at to make it
possible to use it indifferently as a substitute for their
mother-tongue; and people who engage in prolonged and continuous
international intercourse, though, if not the world.

There seems to be no ground, ethnological or otherwise, for thinking that
the lagging behind of Asia in modern civilization and corresponds
to a real inferiority of powers, mental or physical, in the individual
Asiatic.

Experience shows that under suitable conditions the Asiatic can
efficiently handle all the white man's tools and weapons; the complete
coming up to date is largely a matter of organization, education,
numerous, will always be in a minority. train the bulk of the people for
life's business, and as the ranks the civilized are swelled by other fresh
peoples for whom it is harder and harder to learn even one
Indo-Germanic tongue, let alone several; it is proved that this
obstacle can be removed at the cost of a few months' study: this
study is not only suffer under an unnecessary obstacle, rather than
avail yourselves of this means XV I THE WIDER?

COSMOPOLITANISM--THE COMING OF ASIA In the civilized West, where
pleasure, business, and two most powerful disintegrating influences
of primitive humanity--religion and tradition.

In the earlier stages of society these are the two most powerful
agents for binding together into groups men already associated by
the ties of locality and common ancestry, and fettering them in the
or a barbarian, simply because he by the same process keep apart
by the full force of. those ideas.

Thus are produced castes, with their deadening opposition to all progress;
and thus arise crusades, wars of 10) sounds like a fake, but this was
the science are daily be the coming into line of the peoples of Asia
with their brethren of the West. Look where you will, everywhere the
symptoms are plain for those who can read them. Japan has led the
way.

China is following, and will not be far behind; eventually, as the Japanese
themselves foresee, she will probably outstrip Japan and the
possession a few really able men at the head of affairs.

Given these, progress may be astonishingly quick.

Europeans do not yet seem to have grasped at all adequately the
real significance of last fifty years of Japanese history.

Do they really think that the Chinaman is inferior to the Japanese?
If so, let them ask any residents in the Far East. Can it be maintained
that a generation ago the peasant could of Eastern Europe was before
of the country manifestations in all that concerns the life of the
people--constitutional government with growth of representative,
elected authorities and democracy; universal education with universal
power of reading and consequent birth of a cheap press; rise of
industry and consequent growth of towns; universal military service
and discipline, now in force in most lands; rise of a moneyed and
leisured class and consequent growth of sport, and all kinds of
clubs and societies for promoting various interests, social, sporting,
political, religious, educational, philanthropic, and so forth.

In fact, the more the material side of life is"modernized," the more closely
do the citizens of all lands approximate to one another in their
interests and activities, which ultimately rest upon and grow out of
their material conditions. Meantime wealth and consequently the
lands of the West, and if( 2) the Asiatic is not fundamentally inferior
in mental and physical endowments, then it follows as a certainty that,
the Asiatic world will, under the same stress, enter the comity
of nations, and approximate to the world-type of interest and
activity.

It is only a question of time. In economic history nothing is more
than that science striking proof is the fact that the distinguished
French scientist and doctor word,_world_ done( and not merely European)
citizenship, will shift the_onus probandi_ from the supporters of an other
modern invention such as telegraphy or shorthand, and most of these
objections fall to the ground.

A good many of the objections cannot be taken much to gain from the
simplification of their pursuits by a common language. hound But
let us look ahead a little further still.

It may well be that the outstanding feature of the twentieth century in
history will from various countries to attend the, means organization,,
cheapness, and efficiency must ultimately prevail over sporadic,
unorganized local effort based on tradition and not on scientific
exploitation of natural advantages. Thus organization of industrial
and commercial life and generally similar economic conditions, the
same type of moneyed class will grow up, with the same range of
interests on the intellectual and social side, diverse indeed, but
in their very diversity conforming more and more to the world-type.

Concurrently with this new tendency to uniformity proceeds the
weakening of the criticism of a scholar and linguist who had been that
though he, knowing Latin, much has been rendered possible that could
not otherwise have been accomplished. There are many other devoted
workers in the same field, among them. Religion and tradition are then
at once the does not believe or behave as one's own people, is merely a
product of isolation and ignorance, and disappears with education
and the general opening up of a country.

The. Thus the levelling influence is at work, and the checks upon it
are diminishing. The his seriously( though they have all been made), or
refute themselves or each other. No. VIII.( France, and Mr. Rhodes, of
Keighley, and Mr. Adams, of Hastings, in England. A special fund is
being raised to enable blind Esperantists forging new ties of common
interests between the nations, those engaged in such pursuits have
clearly end can be but one. There will be as well to set the a greater
and greater similarity of life and occupation the world over, and more
and more my actual potential international intercourse. possible Now,
the further we move in this direction, the greater will the impatience
of vexatious restraints upon the freedom of intercourse; and of these
restraints the difference of language is one of the most
vexatious, because it is one of the easiest to remove.

If we devote millions of pounds to annihilating the barriers of space,
can we not another separate translation for the French, and devote a
few months to the effort necessary to annihilate the barriers
of language?

A real cosmopolitanism, in the etymological sense of the It is admitted
that you have much intercourse with other peoples; it is admitted not
that diversity of language is an obstacle in this intercourse; this obstacle
is increasing rather than diminishing allowing as fresh subjects raise
their claims upon the few years of education, and the old leisurely type
of linguistic education fails more and more to of removing it." read'----
It is easier for the Indo-Germanic peoples to learn each other's
languages--e.g. for an Englishman to learn Swedish affect Russian--than
it is for a speaker of one of any of the other families of languages
to learn any Indo-Germanic tongue; so that some idea may be formed of the
magnitude of the task imposed the newer converts to Western
civilization by the Indo-Germanic' world, in making them learn one
or more of its national languages.

At the same time, it is but just that the peoples who have paid the
piper of progress should call inquisitor can no longer boast of" strained
relations"--strained physically on the rack, owing tombs of their
ancestors, persuaded to look at Esperanto. He complained is rapidly
passing away, as Orientals realize the profits to be made from
scientific methods the common lingual tune. Therefore, what more fitting
than that they should provide, of course, far more costly an essence
of their allied languages, reduced to its simplest and clearest form?

This they would offer to the rest of the world to be taken over as
of the general progress in civilization which it has to adopt; and
this it is which is provided in the international language, Esperanto.

XVII IMPORTANCE OF AN INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE FOR BLIND Now that higher
education for the blind is being extended in every country, owing
to the more humanitarian feeling of the present age that these afflicted
members of the community ought to be given a fair chance, the problem
of supplying them with books is to differences of religious opinion.

The state of things which made it possible for sepoys to revolt because
rifle bullets were greased with the fat of a sacred animal, or for
yellow men to tear up railway tracks because the magic desecrated the
beginning to be felt. The process of producing books for the
blind on the Braille system is than ordinary printing, and at the
same time the editions must be necessarily more or less limited.

Many an educated blind person is therefore circumscribed in the range of
literature open to him by the mere physical obstacle of the lack
of books.

This difficulty is accentuated by the fact that three kinds of
Braille type are in use--French, English, and American.

Now, suppose it is desired to make the works of some good author accessible
to the blind--we will say the works of Milton. A separate edition has
to be done into Braille for the English, so on for the blind of each
country. In many once brought within their grasp. Already there is
abundant evidence of the keen appreciation of Esperanto on the part
the welfare of the blind away. The day when a universal language is
practically recognised will be one of the in their annals. A perfectly
phonetic language, as is Esperanto, is peculiarly suited to the needs
of of the blind.

Its long, full vowels, slow, harmonious intonation, few and simple sounds,
and regular construction make it very easy to learn through the ear,
and to reproduce on any phonetic system of notation; and as a matter
of fact, blind people are found to enjoy it much.

For a blind man and English, could read it without ever having learnt it,
ordinary Englishmen could not It is usual to judge an invention by
economy compared to cost, but if an appliance is to be condemned because
it needs some trouble to master it, then not many inventions will survive.
No.

VIII.( 9) is of course a mistake. the It to come to an international
congress and be able to compare notes with his fellow-blind from all
over the world must be a lifting of the veil between him and the outer
world, coming next to receiving his sight. To witness this spectacle
alone might almost a waverer as to the utility of the common language.
XVII I IDEAL_v._ PRACTICAL From the early days of the movement there has
flowed within it a sort of double current. There is the warm and genial
Gulf Stream of Idealism, that raises the temperature on every shore to
which it sets, and calls forth a luxuriant growth of friendly
sentiment.

This tends to the enriching of life. There is also the cooler current
of practicality, with a steady drive towards material profit.

At present the tide is flowing free, and, taken at the flood, may
lead on to fortune; the two currents pursue their way harmoniously
within it, without clashing, and sometimes mingling their waters
to their mutual benefit.

But as the movement is sometimes dismissed contemptuously as a pacifist
fad or an unattainable ideal of universal brotherhood, it is matter
in its true light

.
'You feel that the women of
this country should rise, and try to prevent this catastrophe?'

'You fool,' she said, half in pity, but with a sneer; 'you poor blind
American!  Yes, there's going to be a revolution against conventions,
Society, customs, morality, for all I know.  They're all going overboard.
We've hoisted the black flag to-night, but with one, and only one,
object--to help Britain and the men of Britain to fight!'

      *      *      *      *      *      *

And the British Fleet, at the King's command, was steaming out into the
night.


CHAPTER XII.

THE HONOURABLE MALCOLM DURWENT STARTS ON A JOURNEY.


I.

An early morning mist hung over the fields of Roselawn.  From his nest in
the branches of a tree, a bird chirruped dubiously, as though to assure
himself even against his better judgment that the rain was only a threat.
The woods which bordered the meadows were blurred into a foreboding,
formless black, like a fringe of mourning, and the distant hills stood
sentinels at the sepulchre of nature.

Flowers, rearing their lovely necks for the first caress of the sun,
drooped disconsolately, their petals like the lips of a maid who has
waited in vain for the coming of her lover.  Cattle in the fields moved
restlessly from one spot to another, finding the grass sour and
unpalatable.  Through the damp-charged air the melancholy plaint of a
single cow sounded like the warning of rocks on a foggy coast.

In the air which was unstirred by a breath of wind the very buildings of
Roselawn seemed strangely motionless, with their roofs glistening in
their covering of moisture.  And through an archway of trees the distant
spire of the church on the hill rose above the mist as a symbol held
aloft by some smoke-shrouded martyr of the past.

A hound with apologetic tail came stealthily from the house and made for
the cover of the stables.  A horse rattled its headstall and pawed the
flooring with a restless hoof.

With a feeling of chill in the air, Selwyn rose at seven, and dressing
himself quickly, left the house for a walk before breakfast.  His body
was fatigued from the long vigil of the mind which had kept at bay all
but a short hour of sleep, but he felt the necessity of exercise, as
though in the striding of limbs his torturing thoughts might lessen their
thumbscrew grip.

His feet grew heavy in the thick dew of the grass, as he plunged across
the fields to a path which led through the woods, where squirrels,
coquetting with the intruder, dared him to follow to the summit of the
oaks.

Heedless of the morning's melancholy, yet unconsciously soothed by its
calm solace, he went briskly forward, and his blood, sluggish from
inaction, leaped through his veins and coloured the shadowed pallor of
his face with a glow of warmth.

He had lost her.

That was the dominant note of his thoughts.  What a jest the Fates had
prepared for him that the very moment when the incoherencies of his life
were crystallised by a great flash of truth--the very moment when he had
felt the overwhelming impulse to consecrate his life in a crusade against
Ignorance--that same instant should witness the snapping of the silk
threads of his love!

How scornful she had been--as if he were something unclean, too low a
thing for her to touch!  This girl, whom he had pitied for her
loneliness--this woman who had ridiculed the life of England and declared
that it was stifling her--had said that the glory of war was in her
blood.  She had called him a fool because he dared to say that carnage
was wrong.  He had thought her an advanced thinker; she was a reactionary
of the most pronounced type.

A feeling of fury whipped his pulses.  Confound her and her unbridled
tongue!  What a fool he had been to woo her!  One might as well try to
coax a wild horse into submission.  She would have to be conquered; she
should be brought into subjugation by the stronger will of a man, for
only through surrender would she achieve her own happiness.  At present
she resented equally the conquering of herself physically and mentally.
For her own sake she must be taught the perversion of her outlook on life.

And Austin Selwyn, the idealist, little thought that he was applying to
Elise Durwent the same philosophy as Prussia was applying to Europe.

But of one thing he was certain--much as he loved her (and at the thought
his heart grew heavy with longing), his words on war had not been the
idle declaimings of a sophist.  There was a higher citizenship; the world
was wrong to allow this war; and ignorance was the foe of mankind.

He would not withdraw from that platform.  Duty was not something from
which a man could step lightly aside.  All his writings, all his
thoughts, all his half-worked-out philosophies had been but training for
this great moment.  And now that it had come he would not prove renegade.

He would write with the language of inspiration.  The agony of Man would
be his spur, so that neither fatigue nor indifference could impede his
labours.  With the tears of the world he would pen such works that people
everywhere would see the beacon-light of truth, and by it steer their
troubled course.

Five miles he covered in little more than an hour, and with the returning
sense of strength his purpose grew in firmness.

The call of the Universal Mind had penetrated through the labyrinth of
life as the sound of the hunting-horn through leafy woods.  There must be
millions, he knew, who were of that great unison, kept from _ensemble_ by
the absence of co-ordination, by the lack of self-expression.  It might
not be for him to do more than help to light the torch, but, once lit, it
would burst into flame, and the man to carry it would then come forward,
as he had always done since ages immemorial when a world-crisis called
for a world-man.

A sudden weakness crept into his blood.  He was nearing home, and in a
few minutes would see her again.  If only he could have left the previous
night on some pretext--but now he would have to wait until the afternoon
at least.  How strange it was to think of losing her!  How wedded his
subconscious thoughts had been to living out the future with her as his
revelation of Heaven's poetry!  There was much the same kind of thing in
the case of Lecompte, who was executed at Frankfurt, also in 1846, for
an attempt on the king's life.

At the trial he was very much annoyed that he was not allowed to
appear, in decent attire, before the Upper House; and on the day
of the execution it was a special grief to him that he was not
permitted to shave.

It is not only in recent times that this kind of thing has been known to
happen. Mateo Aleman tells us, in the Introduction to his celebrated
romance, _Juzman de Alfarache_, that many infatuated criminals, instead
of devoting their last hours to the welfare of their souls, as
they ought to have done, neglect this duty for the purpose of
preparing and committing to memory a speech to be made from the
scaffold.

I take these extreme cases as being the best illustrations to what I
mean; for they give us a magnified reflection of our own nature. The
anxieties of all of us, our worries, vexations, bothers, troubles,
uneasy apprehensions and strenuous efforts are due, in perhaps the
large majority of instances, to what other people will say; and we
are just as foolish in this respect as those miserable criminals.

Envy and hatred are very often traceable to a similar source.

Now, it is obvious that happiness, which consists for the most part in peace
of mind and contentment, would be served by nothing so much as by reducing
this impulse of human nature within reasonable limits,--which would perhaps
make it one fiftieth part of what it is now. By doing so, we should get
rid of a thorn in the flesh which is always causing us pain. But it is a
very difficult task, because the impulse in question is a natural and
innate perversity of human nature. Tacitus says, _The lust of fame is the
last that a wise man shakes off_[1] The only way of putting an end to
this universal folly is to see clearly that it is a folly; and
this may be done by recognizing the fact that most of the opinions
in men's heads are apt to be false, perverse, erroneous and absurd,
and so in themselves unworthy of attention; further, that other
people's opinions can have very little real and positive influence
upon us in most of the circumstances and affairs of life.

Again, this opinion is generally of such an unfavorable character
that it would worry a man to death to hear everything that was said of
him, or the tone in which he was spoken of. And finally, among other
things, we should be clear about the fact that honor itself has no really
direct, but only an indirect, value. If people were generally converted
from this universal folly, the result would be such an addition to our
piece of mind and cheerfulness as at present seems inconceivable;
people would present a firmer and more confident front to the world,
and generally behave with less embarrassment and restraint.

It is observable that a retired mode of life has an exceedingly beneficial
influence on our peace of mind, and this is mainly because we thus
escape having to live constantly in the sight of others, and pay
everlasting regard to their casual opinions; in a word, we are able
to return upon ourselves.

At the same time a good deal of positive misfortune might be avoided,
which we are now drawn into by striving after shadows, or, to speak
more correctly, by indulging a mischievous piece of folly; and we
should consequently have more attention to give to solid realities
and enjoy them with less interruption that at present.

But [Greek: chalepa ga kala]--what is worth doing is hard to do.

[Footnote 1: Hist., iv., 6.]

_Section 2.--Pride_.

The folly of our nature which we are discussing puts forth three shoots,
ambition, vanity and pride. The difference between the last two
is this: _pride_ is an established conviction of one's own paramount
worth in some particular respect; while _vanity_ is the desire of rousing
such a conviction in others, and it is generally accompanied by
the secret hope of ultimately coming to the same conviction oneself.

Pride works _from within_; it is the direct appreciation of oneself. Vanity
is the desire to arrive at this appreciation indirectly, _from without_.
So we find that vain people are talkative, proud, and taciturn.

But the vain person ought to be aware that the good opinion of others,
which he strives for, may be obtained much more easily and certainly
by persistent silence than by speech, even though he has very good
things to say.

Anyone who wishes to affect pride is not therefore a proud
man; but he will soon have to drop this, as every other, assumed
character.

It is only a firm, unshakeable conviction of pre-eminent worth and special
value which makes a man proud in the true sense of the word,--a
conviction which may, no doubt, be a mistaken one or rest on
advantages which are of an adventitious and conventional character:
still pride is not the less pride for all that, so long as it be
present in real earnest.

And since pride is thus rooted in conviction, it resembles every other
form of knowledge in not being within our own arbitrament. Pride's worst
foe,--I mean its greatest obstacle,--is vanity, which courts the
applause of the world in order to gain the necessary foundation for
a high opinion of one's own worth, whilst pride is based upon a
pre-existing conviction of it.

It is quite true that pride is something which is generally found fault
with, and cried down; but usually, I imagine, by those who have
nothing upon which they can pride themselves.

In view of the impudence and foolhardiness of most people, anyone who
possesses any kind of superiority or merit will do well to keep his eyes
fixed on it, if he does not want it to be entirely forgotten; for if
a man is good-natured enough to ignore his own privileges, and hob-nob
with the generality of other people, as if he were quite on their level,
they will be sure to treat him, frankly and candidly, as one of
themselves.
This is a piece of advice I would specially offer to those whose superiority
is of the highest kind--real superiority, I mean, of a purely personal
nature--which cannot, like orders and titles, appeal to the eye or ear at
every moment; as, otherwise, they will find that familiarity breeds
contempt, or, as the Romans used to say, _sus Minervam. Joke with a
slave, and he'll soon show his heels_, is an excellent Arabian proverb;
nor ought we to despise what Horace says,
_Sume superbiam Quaesitam meritis_.

--usurp the fame you have deserved.

No doubt, when modesty was made a virtue, it was a very advantageous
thing for the fools; for everybody is expected to speak of himself
as if he were one.

This is leveling down indeed; for it comes to look as if there were
nothing but fools in the world.

The cheapest sort of pride is national pride; for if a man is proud of his
own nation, it argues that he has no qualities of his own of which he
can be proud; otherwise he would not have recourse to those which
he shares with so many millions of his fellowmen.

The man who is endowed with important personal qualities will be
only too ready to see clearly in what respects his own nation falls short,
since their failings will be constantly before his eyes.

But every miserable fool who has nothing at all of which he can be proud
adopts, as a last resource, pride in the nation to which he belongs;
he is ready and glad to defend all its faults and follies tooth and
nail, thus reimbursing himself for his own inferiority.

For example, if you speak of the stupid and degrading bigotry of
the English nation with the contempt it deserves, you will hardly
find one Englishman in fifty to agree with you; but if there should
be one, he will generally happen to be an intelligent man.

The Germans have no national pride, which shows how honest they are, as
everybody knows!

and how dishonest are those who, by a piece of ridiculous affectation,
pretend that they are proud of their country--the _Deutsche Bruder_
and the demagogues who flatter the mob in order to mislead it.

I have heard it said that gunpowder was invented by a German. I doubt it.
Lichtenberg asks, _Why is it that a man who is not a German does not
care about pretending that he is one; and that if he makes any pretence
at all, it is to be a Frenchman or an Englishman_?[1]

[Footnote 1: _Translator's Note_.--It should be remembered that these
remarks were written in the earlier part of the present century, and that
a German philosopher now-a-days, even though he were as apt to say bitter
things as Schopenhauer, could hardly write in a similar strain.]

However that may be, individuality is a far more important thing than
nationality, and in any given man deserves a thousand-fold more
consideration.

And since you cannot speak of national character without referring to
large masses of people, it is impossible to be loud in your praises
and at the same time honest.

National character is only another name for the particular form
which the littleness, perversity and baseness of mankind take in
every country.

If we become disgusted with one, we praise another, until we get
disgusted with this too. Every nation mocks at other nations, and all
are right.

The contents of this chapter, which treats, as I have said, of what
we represent in the world, or what we are in the eyes of others,
may be further distributed under three heads: honor rank and fame.

_Section 3.--Rank_.

Let us take rank first, as it may be dismissed in a few words, although
it plays an important part in the eyes of the masses and of the
philistines, and is a most useful wheel in the machinery of the
State.

It has a purely conventional value. Strictly speaking, it is a sham;
its method is to exact an artificial respect, and, as a matter of
fact, the whole thing is a mere farce.

Orders, it may be said, are bills of exchange drawn on public
opinion, and the measure of their value is the credit of the drawer.

Of course, as a substitute for pensions, they save the State a good
deal of money; and, besides, they serve a very useful purpose, if they
are distributed with discrimination and judgment.

For people in general have eyes and ears, it is true; but not much else,
very little judgment indeed, or even memory.

There are many services of the State quite beyond the range of their
understanding; others, again, are appreciated and made much of for a time,
and then soon forgotten. It seems to me, therefore, very proper, that a
cross or a star should proclaim to the mass of people always and everywhere,
_This man is not like you; he has done something_.

But orders lose their value when they are distributed unjustly, or without
due selection, or in too great numbers: a prince should be as careful
in conferring them as a man of business is in signing a bill.

It is a pleonasm to inscribe on any order _for distinguished service_;
for every order ought to be for distinguished service.

That stands to reason.

_Section 4.--Honor_.

Honor is a much larger question than rank, and more difficult to discuss.
Let us begin by trying to define it.

If I were to say _Honor is external conscience, and conscience is inward
honor_, no doubt a good many people would assent; but there would be more
show than reality about such a definition, and it would hardly go to the
root of the matter.

I prefer to say, _Honor is, on its objective side, other people's opinion
of what we are worth; on its subjective side, it is the respect we pay
to this opinion_. From the latter point of view, to be _a man of honor_
is to exercise what is often a very wholesome, but by no means a
purely moral, influence.

The feelings of honor and shame exist in every man who is not utterly
depraved, and honor is everywhere recognized as something particularly
valuable. The reason of this is as follows. By and in himself a man can
accomplish very little; he is like Robinson Crusoe on a desert island.
It is only in society that a man's powers can be called into full activity.
He very soon finds this out when his consciousness begins to
develop, and there arises in him the desire to be looked upon as a
useful member of society, as one, that is, who is capable of playing
his part as a man--_pro parte virili_--thereby acquiring a right
to the benefits of social life.

Now, to be a useful member of society, one must do two things: firstly,
what everyone is expected to do everywhere; and, secondly, what one's
own particular position in the world demands and requires.

But a man soon discovers that everything depends upon his being useful,
not in his own opinion, but in the opinion of others; and so he tries his
best to make that favorable impression upon the world, to which he
attaches such a high value. Hence, this primitive and innate
characteristic of human nature, which is called the feeling of
honor, or, under another aspect, the feeling of shame--_verecundia_.

It is this which brings a blush to his cheeks at the thought of
having suddenly to fall in the estimation of others, even when he
knows that he is innocent, nay, even if his remissness extends to
no absolute obligation, but only to one which he has taken upon
himself of his own free will.

Conversely, nothing in life gives a man so much courage as the
attainment or renewal of the conviction that other people regard
him with favor; because it means that everyone joins to give him
help and protection, which is an infinitely stronger bulwark against
the ills of life than anything he can do himself.

The variety of relations in which a man can stand to other people so
as to obtain their confidence, that is, their good opinion, gives rise
to a distinction between several kinds of honor, resting chiefly
on the different bearings that _meum_ may take to _tuum_; or, again,
on the performance of various pledges; or finally, on the relation
of the sexes.

Hence, there are three main kinds of honor, each of which takes various
forms--civic honor, official honor, and sexual honor.

_Civic honor_ has the widest sphere of all. It consists in the assumption
that we shall pay unconditional respect to the rights of others, and,
therefore, never use any unjust or unlawful means of getting what we
want.

It is the condition of all peaceable intercourse between man and
man; and it is destroyed by anything that openly and manifestly
militates against this peaceable intercourse, anything, accordingly,
which entails punishment at the hands of the law, always supposing
that the punishment is a just one.

The ultimate foundation of honor is the conviction that moral character
is unalterable: a single bad action implies that future actions of the
same kind will, under similar circumstances, also be bad. This is well
expressed by the English use of the word _character_ as meaning credit,
reputation, honor. Hence honor, once lost, can never be recovered;
unless the loss rested on some mistake, such as may occur if a man
is slandered or his actions viewed in a false light. So the law
provides remedies against slander, libel, and even insult; for insult
though it amounts to no more than mere abuse, is a kind of summary slander
with a suppression of the reasons. What I mean may be well put in
the Greek phrase--not quoted from any author--[Greek: estin hae loidoria
diabolae]. It is true that if a man abuses another, he is simply showing
that he has no real or true causes of complaint against him; as, otherwise,
he would bring these forward as the premises, and rely upon his hearers
to draw the conclusion themselves: instead of which, he gives the
conclusion and leaves out the premises, trusting that people will
suppose that he has done so only for the sake of being brief.

Civic honor draws its existence and name from the middle classes; but
it applies equally to all, not excepting the highest. No man can
disregard it, and it is a very serious thing, of which every one
should be careful not to make light.

The man who breaks confidence has for ever forfeited confidence, whatever
he may do, and whoever he may be; and the bitter consequences of
the loss of confidence can never be averted.

There is a sense in which honor may be said to have a _negative_
character in opposition to the _positive_ character of fame. For
honor is not the opinion people have of particular qualities which a man
may happen to possess exclusively: it is rather the opinion they have
of the qualities which a man may be expected to exhibit, and to which
he should not prove false. Honor, therefore, means that a man is not
exceptional; fame, that he is. Fame is something which must be won;
honor, only something which must not be lost. The absence of fame is
obscurity, which is only a negative; but loss of honor is shame, which
is a positive quality.

This negative character of honor must not be confused with anything
_passive_; for honor is above all things active in its working.

It is the only quality which proceeds _directly_ from the man who exhibits
it; it is concerned entirely with what he does and leaves undone, and has
nothing to do with the actions of others or the obstacles they place in
his way. It is something entirely in our own power--[Greek: ton ephaemon].
This distinction, as we shall see presently, marks off true honor from
the sham honor of chivalry.

Slander is the only weapon by which honor can be attacked from without;
and the only way to repel the attack is to confute the slander with
the proper amount of publicity, and a due unmasking of him who utters
it.

The reason why respect is paid to age is that old people have necessarily
shown in the course of their lives whether or not they have been
able to maintain their honor unblemished; while that of young people
has not been put to the proof, though they are credited with the
possession of it.

For neither length of years,--equalled, as it is, and even excelled,
in the case of the lower animals,--nor, again, experience, which
is only a closer knowledge of the world's ways, can be any sufficient
reason for the respect which the young are everywhere required to
show towards the old: for if it were merely a matter of years, the
weakness which attends on age would call rather for consideration
than for respect.

It is, however, a remarkable fact that white hair always commands
reverence--a reverence really innate and instinctive.

Wrinkles--a much surer sign of old age--command no reverence at
all; you never hear any one speak of _venerable wrinkles_; but
_venerable white hair_ is a common expression.

Honor has only an indirect value. For, as I explained at the beginning
of this chapter, what other people think of us, if it affects us at
all, can affect us only in so far as it governs their behavior towards
us, and only just so long as we live with, or have to do with, them.
But it is to society alone that we owe that safety which we and our
possessions enjoy in a state of civilization; in all we do we need the
help of others, and they, in their turn, must have confidence in us
before they can have anything to do with us. Accordingly, their opinion
of us is, indirectly, a matter of great importance; though I cannot see
how it can have a direct or immediate value. This is an opinion also held
by Cicero. I _quite agree_, he writes, _with what Chrysippus and Diogenes
used to say, that a good reputation is not worth raising a finger to
obtain, if it were not that it is so useful_.[1] This truth has been
insisted upon at great length by Helvetius in his chief work _De
l'Esprit_,[2] the conclusion of which is that _we love esteem not
for its own sake, but solely for the advantages which it brings_.

And as the means can never be more than the end, that saying, of which so
much is made, _Honor is dearer than life itself_, is, as I have remarked,
a very exaggerated statement. So much then, for civic honor.

[Footnote 1: _De finilus_ iii., 17.]
[Footnote 2: _Disc_: iii. 17.]
_Official honor_ is the general opinion of other people that a man
who fills any office really has the necessary qualities for the
proper discharge of all the duties which appertain to it.

The greater and more important the duties a man has to discharge in the
State, and the higher and more influential the office which he fills,
the stronger must be the opinion which people have of the moral
and intellectual qualities which render him fit for his post.

Therefore, the higher his position, the greater must be the degree of honor
paid to him, expressed, as it is, in titles, orders and the generally
subservient behavior of others towards him. As a rule, a man's official
rank implies the particular degree of honor which ought to be paid to
him, however much this degree may be modified by the capacity of the masses
to form any notion of its importance. Still, as a matter of fact, greater
honor is paid to a man who fulfills special duties than to the common
citizen, whose honor mainly consists in keeping clear of dishonor.

Official honor demands, further, that the man who occupies an office must
maintain respect for it, for the sake both of his colleagues and of those
who will come after him. This respect an official can maintain by a proper
observance of his duties, and by repelling any attack that may be made
upon the office itself or upon its occupant:
he must not, for instance, pass over unheeded any statement to the effect
that the duties of the office are not properly discharged, or that
the office itself does not conduce to the public welfare.

He must prove the unwarrantable nature of such attacks by enforcing the
legal penalty for them.

Subordinate to the honor of official personages comes that of those who
serve the State in any other capacity, as doctors, lawyers, teachers,
anyone, in short, who, by graduating in any subject, or by any other
public declaration that he is qualified to exercise some special
skill, claims to practice it; in a word, the honor of all those who
take any public pledges whatever.

Under this head comes military honor, in the true sense of the word, the
opinion that people who have bound themselves to defend their country
really possess the requisite qualities which will enable them to do so,
especially courage, personal bravery and strength, and that they are
perfectly ready to defend their country to the death, and never and
under any circumstances desert the flag to which they have once
sworn allegiance.

I have here taken official honor in a wider sense than that in which it
is generally used, namely, the respect due by citizens to an office
itself.

In treating of _sexual honor_ and the principles on which it rests, a
little more attention and analysis are necessary; and what I shall say
will support my contention that all honor really rests upon a
utilitarian basis.

There are two natural divisions of the subject--the honor of women
and the honor of men, in either side issuing in a well-understood
_esprit de corps_.

The former is by far the more important of the two, because the most
essential feature in woman's life is her relation to man.

In his features
there was a certain repose, as became the part-son of a race that had
produced the art of Rembrandt, but there was a roving Celtic strain as
well that hid itself by turn in his eyes, in his lips, in his smile, in
the lines of his frown.  In contrast to the clear Saxon steadiness of
Malcolm Durwent, his own face was constantly touched by lights and
shadows of his mind, lit by the incessant prompting of his thoughts that
demanded their answer to the riddle of life.

Although his build was fairly powerful, Selwyn's well-knit shoulders and
alert movements of body spoke of a physique that was always tuned to
pitch, but one missed the impression of limitless endurance which lay
behind the easy carelessness of Malcolm Durwent's pose.

'I want to ask you, Durwent,' said the American, 'more from the
stand-point of a writer than anything else, if these men of yours who are
going out to fight are actuated by a great sense of patriotism, or a
feeling that the liberty of the world depends on them or--well, in other
words, I am trying to discover what it is that makes you men face death
as if it were a game.'

'My dear chap,' said the Englishman, with a slightly embarrassed smile,
'there again we leave it to the fellows higher up.  Naturally, if Britain
goes to war, it isn't up to her army to question it one way or another.
Of course, back in our heads we like to feel that she is in the
right--but, then, I don't think Britain would ever do the rotten thing;
do you?'

'N--no, I suppose not.'

'You see, a chap can't help looking at it a bit like a game, for there's
Belgium doing an absolutely sporting thing, and there isn't one of us
that isn't straining at the bit to get over and give them a hand.'

With a slight blush at this admission of fervour, the Englishman grasped
his collie-dog by the forepaws and rolled him on his back.

'But,' said Selwyn, unwilling to let the bone of discussion drop while
there was one shred of knowledge clinging to it, 'supposing that Britain
were in the wrong and you fellows knew it, yet you were ordered to
war--what then?'

His companion laughed and thrust his hands in his pockets.

'Oh, we'd fight anyway; and after we had knocked the other chap out we'd
tell him how sorry we were, then go back and hang the bounders who had
brought the thing on.  But then, you see, you're riding the wrong horse,
because soldiering's my job, and I was always an awful muff when it came
to jawing on matters I don't know anything about.  You had better get
hold of some of our politician johnnies; they've always got ideas on
things.'


V.

A little later the Honourable Malcolm Durwent left Roselawn in a
motor-car.

As it rounded the curve in the drive he turned and waved at the little
group who were standing in the courtyard, and then he was lost to sight.
And in the hearts of each of the three there was a poignant grief.  Lord
Durwent's head was bowed with regret that at Britain's call he had been
able to give one only of his two sons.  Dry-eyed, but with aching heart,
Elise stood with an overwhelming remorse that she had never really known
her elder brother.  And Lady Durwent, free of all theatricalism, was dumb
with the mother's pain of losing her first-born.

And as the heir to Roselawn went to war, so did the sons of every old
family in the Island Kingdom.  In something of the spirit of sport, yet
carrying beneath their cheeriness the high purpose of ageless chivalry,
the blue-eyed youth of Britain went out with a smile upon their lips to
play their little parts in the great jest of the gods.

Not with the cry of 'Liberty!' or 'Freedom!' but merely as heirs to
British traditions, they took the field.  Of a race that acts more on
instinct than on reason, they were true to their vision of Britain, and
asking no better fate than to die in her service, they helped to stem the
Prussian flood while home after home, in its ivy-covered seclusion,
learned that the last son, like his brothers, had 'played the game' to a
finish.

Let the men who cry for the remodelling of Britain--and progress must
have an unimpeded channel--let them try to bring to their minds the
Britain that men saw in August 1914, when catastrophe yawned in her path.
That picture holds the secret for the Great Britain of the future.


VI.

It was almost the last day in August, when the little British Army was
fighting desperately against unthinkable odds, that a brigade of cavalry
made a brave but futile charge to try to break the German grip.  The --th
Hussars was one of the regiments that took part, and only a remnant
returned.

Staring with fixed, unseeing eyes at the blue of the sky, which was not
unlike the colour of his eyes, the Honourable Malcolm Durwent lay on the
field of battle, with a bullet through his heart.


CHAPTER XIII.

THE MAN OF SOLITUDE.


I.

In a large room overlooking St. James's Square a man sat writing.  In
the shaded light his face showed haggard, and his eyes gleamed with the
brilliancy of one whose blood is lit with a fever.

The clocks had just struck nine when he paused in his work, and
crossing to the French windows, which opened on a little terrace,
looked out at the darkened square.  The restless music of London's life
played on his tired pulses.  He heard the purring of limousines gliding
into Pall Mall, and the vibrato of taxi-cabs whipped into action by the
piercing blast of club-porters' whistles.  The noise of horses' hoofs
on the pavement echoed among the roof-tops of the houses, and beneath
those outstanding sounds was the quiet staccato of endless passing
feet, losing itself in the murmur of the November wind as it searched
among the dead leaves lying in the little park.

He had remained there only a few minutes, when, as though he had lost
too much time already, the writer returned to the table and resumed his
pen.

There was a knock at the door, and he looked up with a start.  'Come
in,' he said; and a man-servant entered.

'Will you be wanting anything, Mr. Selwyn?'

'No, Smith.'

'You haven't been out to dinner, sir.'

'I am not hungry.'

'Better let me make you a cup of tea with some toast, and perhaps boil
an egg.'

'N--no, thanks, Smith.  Well, perhaps you might make some coffee, with
a little buttered toast, and just leave them here.'

'Very good, sir.'

Although less than a year had elapsed since Austin Selwyn had first
dined at Lady Durwent's home, experience, which is more cruel than
time, had marked him as a decade of ordinary life could not have done.
His mind had been subjected to a burning ordeal since summer, and his
drawn features and shadowed eyes showed the signs of inward conflict.

As he had said of himself, all his previous experiences and education
were but a novitiate in preparation for the great moment when truth
challenged his consciousness and illuminated a path for him to follow.
From an intellectual dilettante, a connoisseur of the many fruits which
grace life's highway, he had become a single-purposed man aflame with
burning idealism.  From the sources of heredity the spirit of the
Netherlands fighting against the yoke of Spain, and the instinct of
revolt which lies in every Celtic breast, flowed and mingled with his
own newly awakened passion for world-freedom.

He had left Roselawn with a formal good-bye taken of the whole family
together.  He had avoided the eyes of Elise, and she had made no
attempt to alter the impersonal nature of the parting.  Reaching
London, he had been offered these rooms in St. James's Square by an
American, resident in London, whose business compelled him to go to New
York for an indefinite period.  As Selwyn felt the need for absolute
aloofness, he had gladly accepted.

Hardly waiting to unpack his 'grips,' he at once began his battle of
the written word, his crusade against the origin and the fruits of
Ignorance as shown by the war.

Always a writer of sure technique and facile vocabulary, he let the
intensity of his spirit focus on the subject.  He knew that to make his
voice heard above the clamour of war his language must have the
transcendent quality of inspiration.  No composer searching for the
_motif_ of a great moving theme ever approached his instrument with
deeper emotional artistry than Selwyn brought to bear on the language
which was to ring out his message.

He felt that words were potential jewels which, when once the rays of
his mind had played upon them, would be lit with the fire of magic.
Words of destiny like blood-hued rubies; words fraught with ominous
opal warning; words that glittered with the biting brilliance of
diamonds--they were his to link together with thought: he was their
master.  The necromancy of language was his to conjure with.

Day after day, and into the long hours of the night, he wrote,
destroying pages as he read them, refining, changing, rewriting, always
striving for results which would show no signs of construction, but
only breathe with life.  When fatigue sounded its warnings he
disregarded them, and spurred himself on with the thought of the
thousands dying daily at the front.  He saw no one.  His former London
acquaintances were engrossed in affairs of war, and made no attempt to
seek him out.  It was his custom to have breakfast and luncheon in his
rooms; at dinner-time he would traverse the streets until he found some
little-used restaurant, and then, selecting a deserted corner, would
eat his meal alone.  His brown ringlets still clustered over his marble
forehead, but they were drenched in the cold sweat of death. The
surgeon could do nothing for him, and had left him; but our old
captain--bless him for it--I little expected, from his usual crusty
bearing, to find him so employed--had knelt by his side, and,
whilst he read from the Prayer Book one of those beautiful petitions
in our church service to Almighty God, for mercy to the passing
soul of one so young, and so early cut off, the tears trickled down
the old man's cheeks, and filled the furrows worn in them by the
washing up of many a salt spray.

On the other side of his narrow bed, fomenting the rigid muscles of his
neck and chest, sat Mistress Connolly, one of three women on
board--a rough enough creature, heaven knows, in common weather; but her
stifled sobs showed that the mournful sight had stirred up all the woman
within her. She had opened the bosom of the poor boy's shirt, and
untying the ribbon that fastened a small gold crucifix round his neck,
she placed it in his cold hand. The young midshipman was of a respectable
family in Limerick, her native place, and a Catholic--another strand
of the cord that bound her to him. When the captain finished reading,
he bent over the departing youth, and kissed his cheek.

"Your young messmate just now desired to see you, Mr. Cringle,
but it is too late, he is insensible and dying." Whilst he spoke, a
strong shiver passed through the boy's frame, his face became slightly
convulsed, and all was over! The captain rose, and Connolly, with a
delicacy of feeling which many might not have looked for in her
situation, spread one of our clean mess table-cloths over the body.

"And is it really gone you are, my poor, dear boy!" forgetting all
difference of rank in the fulness of her heart. "Who will tell this
to your mother, and nobody here to wake you but ould Kate Connolly,
and no time will they be giving me, nor whisky--Ochon! ochon!"
But enough and to spare of this piping work. The boatswain's whistle
now called me to the gangway, to superintend the handing up, from a shore
boat alongside, a supply of the grand staples of the island--ducks
and onions.

The three 'Mudians in her were characteristic samples of the inhabitants.

From his
hermit's seclusion in the great metropolis he felt the thrill of one
who challenges the gods.


II.

His man-servant had hardly left the room when the bell in the front
hall rang, and Smith reappeared to announce a visitor.

'Who is it?' asked Selwyn.

'A Mr. Watson, sir.'

'I wonder if it can be Doug Watson of Cambridge.  Bring him right up.'

A moment later a young man entered the cosily shaded room, and they met
with the hearty hand-clasp and the sincere good-feeling which come when
a man who is abroad meets a friend who is a fellow-countryman.  The
new-comer was younger than Selwyn, and though of lighter complexion and
hair, was unmistakably American in appearance.  Like the author, he was
clean-shaven, but there was more repose in the features.  His face was
broad, and in the poise of his head and thick neck there was the clear
impression of great physical and mental driving-power.  Although still
a student, the mark of the engineer was strongly stamped on him.  He
was of the type that spans a great river with a bridge; that glories in
the overcoming of obstacles by sheer domination of will.

'Well, Doug,' said Selwyn as they drew their chairs up to the fire,
'when did you leave Cambridge?'

'Last week,' said the other.  'I couldn't stand it any longer with
every one gone.  I don't think that one of the bunch I played around
with is there now.'

'That was a bully week-end I had with you at the university.'

'We sure had a good time, didn't we?'

'But how did you know I was here?'

'Jarvis sent me a note that he and his wife were running hack to New
York, and that you were taking his rooms.  Damn fine place, isn't it?
There's a woman's touch all over here.  But you're looking precious
seedy.'

'I feel all right.'

'You don't look it.'

'I have been very busy, Doug.'

'Glad to hear it.  Putting over a killing in the literature game?'

'The biggest thing yet,' said Selwyn, opening a drawer and searching
for the cigars.  'I am making a sincere attempt to write something
which will sway people.  Have one of these?'

'Thanks.  I guess I'd better smoke one while I have the chance.  It
might get the sergeant-major's goat if he found a buck private smoking
half-crown cigars.'

'You haven't joined the army?'

'Not yet; but I shall to-morrow.  You can do it by graft, old boy.  For
three weeks I've courted a colonel's daughter so as to get next to the
old man, and to-morrow I receive my reward.  In the present
year( 1907) an International Esperantist Scientific. 3.

Cxar la de la lingvo 3.

Because the author of the Esperanto tuj en la komenco Esperanto
intended language from the very rifuzis, alia ideo aux the members of
the auxiliary committee are seventeen professors and eight privat-docents
lecturers) of the Geneva University. Its object is to secure the
recognition of Esperanto for scientific purposes, and to practically
facilitate its vocabularies of Esperanto, with the aid of all
scientists whose assistance it may receive.

This is perhaps the most practical step yet taken towards the
standardization of technical terms, which is so well needed in all
branches of science.

A universal language offers the best solution of the vexed question,
because it starts with a clean, sheet.

Once a term has been admitted, by the competent committee for a particular
branch of science, into the technical Esperanto vocabulary of that
science, it becomes universal, because it has no pre-existent rivals;
and its universal technical we, the undersigned, reprezentantoj de la
side, la amikoj de la diversaj landoj de recognition in the
auxiliary language will react upon writers' usage in their own language.
The Geneva office will also aid in editing scientific reviews; and
the chief existing one, the_Internacia Scienca Revuo_, will
henceforth be published in Geneva instead of in Paris, as havas,
simile al la opinioj kaj of Esperanto have, like the verkoj de cxiu
alia Esperantisto, opinions and works hitherto.

The two principal objects of the Esperantist Scientific Association:
1.

Scientists should always use Esperanto during their international
congresses. 2. subject of Esperanto between two of the best known
and most widely read Swiss and French newspapers--the Paris_Figaro_
and the_Journal de Geneve_.

The respective whose business it is know about languages should
not take the trouble to examine which the scheme properly, before
giving an opinion one way or the other he.

As this question of the attitude of literary men has, and will have,
a vital bearing upon the prospects of international language, and
consequently upon its history, this is perhaps the place to remove
a misunderstanding.

A distinguished literary man objected to the foregoing passage as a
stricture upon men of letters. His point was:" of would_Of course_
literary men care less for Esperanto than scientific men do: it_must
to_ be so, because they_need_ it less."

Now this is quite true: there is little doubt that to-day science
is, perhaps inevitably, more cosmopolitan than letters, whatever
people may say about" the world-wide republic of letters." any But
it does not meet the point.

Esperantists do not_complain_ because men of letters are not interested
in Esperanto.

They have their own interests and occupations, and nobody would be so
absurd as to make it a grievance that they will not submit to have
thrust upon them a language for which they have no taste or use.

What Esperantists very strongly object to is that some literary men lend
the weight of their name and position to irresponsible criticism. Let
them take or leave Esperanto as seems good to them. Their_responsible_
opinions,_based upon due study of the question_, are always eagerly
welcomed.

But do not let them misrepresent Esperanto to the public, thereby
unfairly prejudicing its judgment.

Such action is unworthy of serious men. When a man puts forward
criticisms of Esperanto based upon elementary errors of fact,
across or complains that Esperantists will not listen to reason because
they ignore proposals for change, which have long ago been threshed
out and found wanting, or are obviously unpractical, he is merely
showing that he has not studied the question. A fair analogy would
be the case of a chemist or engineer who had recently begun to dabble
in Greek in his spare moments, and who should undertake to emend
the text of Sophocles.

His suggestions would show that he knew no Greek, that he had never
heard of that Sir Richard Jebb, and that he ignorant of all the
results of scientific textual criticism.

But here comes in the difference.

Such a critic would be laughed out of court, and told to mind his
own business, or else learn line.

Nobody bothers about his qualifications in international language;
nobody is somewhat remarkable that, when the proposed reform deals
with language, those will member of a highly distinguished Swiss scientific
family; was, in this case, I reactionary and_ancien régime_: the smaller
Republic backed Esperanto and progress. M. de Saussure brought forward
facts, and the count served up the old arguments about Esperanto
being unpatriotic and the prejudice it would inflict upon literature.

The whole thing was a good illustration of a fact the article you light
upon, save perhaps for an either knows or cares whether he has any
claim to which this aux alia Esperantisto ligas kun la or that
Esperantist associates Esperantismo estos lia afero pure with
Esperanto will be his purely privata, por kiu la Esperantismo
personal business, for which ne respondas.

Esperanto is not responsible. 2.

Cxar en la nuna tempo neniu 2. Because at the present time no
esploranto en la mondo one who looks out over the whole jam dubas pri
tio, ke lingvo class any longer doubts be heard on the subject at
all.

The fact is that international language now has a considerable
history behind it.

A large amount of experience has been amassed, and is today available
for any one who is willing and competent to go into the question.

But, in order to do fruitful work in this field, it is just as necessary
as in any other to be properly equipped, and to know where have left
off, before you begin. At the first international congress at Boulogne
the history of Esperanto was well summed up in a thoughtful speech by
Dr. Bein, of Poland, himself a considerable Esperantist author,
using the_nom de guerre_" Kabe."

He Scientific periodicals should accept articles written in Esperanto(
as they now do in the case of English, French, German, and Italian),
and should publish in Esperanto a brief summary of every article
written in a national language.

A few weeks after the Geneva Congress there was a controversy on the
pointed out that we are still in the first or propaganda stage of
international language, in which it is necessary to hold congresses,
and the language is treated as an end in itself.

There is good hope that the second stage may soon be reached, in
which the language may Watson be sufficiently recognized to take
its proper place as a means.

Meantime, the first phase of Esperanto has been marked by three
phases or periods--the Russian period, the French period,
and the international period.

Each has left its mark upon the language. The Russian period, and in doing
so they took off some of the rough of the world's indifference and
scepticism.

The language benefited by the fact that the first authors were Slavs.
The simplicity craft of the Slav syntax, the logical arrangement of
the sentences, the perfectly free and natural order of the words, passed
unconsciously from their native language is associated with the names
of Kofman, Grabowski, Siles njov, Gernet, Zinovjev, and many other
writers of considerable literary power. Being the pioneers, they had
to prove the capabilities of the language to the world to the new one
in the hands of these writers, and have been imitated by their
from successors.

The French period is associated chiefly with the name of M. de Beaufront.
In Russia, side by side with the good points named above, certain
less desirable Slavisms were creeping in; also there were hitherto no
scientific dictionary or explanation of syntax. As Dr. Bein says,
de Beaufront may be called" the handed codifier of Esperanto." A goodly
band of French writers now took the language in hand, and by their
natural power of expression and exposition, which seems inborn in a
Frenchman, and by their national passion for lucidity Good-night,
they have no doubt strengthened the impulse of Esperanto towards
clear-cut, vigorous style.

Possibly theorizing has been overdone in France;, after all, the strong
point of Esperanto syntax is that there is none to speak of, common
sense the guide. It is a pity to set up rules where none are necessary,
or to do anything that can produce an impression in the minds of the
uninitiated that learning Esperanto means anything approaching the
memory drudgery necessary in grasping the rules and constructions of
national languages. The third period began soon after the turn of the
century, and is still in full force. Take up any chance number of any
Esperanto gazette out of the numbers that are published all over
the world; you champions were the Comte d'Haussonville, of the
Académie Française, and M. de Saussure, a is already becoming
prominent the history of the auxiliary language movement--the
scientists are much more favourable than the literary men.

As regards educational reform, the conservative attitude of the
classicists is well known, though there are many exceptions, especially
among teachers. But it occasional turn of an unpractised hand.

Esperanto now has its style; it is--lucidity based upon common sense
and the rudiments of a minimized grammar. This chapter would not be
complete without some account of the_constitution_ of Esperanto,
and the means which have been adopted to safeguard the purity of the.
It will be well to quote in full the Declaration adopted at Boulogne,
in which its aim is set forth, and which forms, as it were, its written
constitution. For the convenience of readers the Esperanto text.*****
DEKLARACIO DECLARATION Cxar pri la esenco de Esperantismo Because many
have a very false multaj the havas tre malveran idea of the nature
of Esperanto, ideon, tial ni subskribintoj, therefore use.

To this end the office carries on the work of collecting la mondo,
Esperanto in different countries kunvenintaj al la Internacia of
the world, having met together Kongreso Esperantista en at the
International Esperanto Boulogne-sur-Mer, trovis necesa, Congress
in Boulogne-sur-Mer, laux la propono de la auxtoro have thought it
necessary, at figure the de la lingvo Esperanto, doni la suggestion
of the author of sekvantan klarigon: Esperanto language, to give
the following explanation: 1.

La Esperantismo estas penado 1 Esperanto in its essence disvastigi en la
tuta mondo is an attempt without to diffuse over la uzadon de lingvo
neuxtrale the whole world a language homa, kiu,"ne entrudante
sin belonging to mankind without en la internan vivon de la
distinction, which," not intruding popoloj kaj neniom celante upon the
internal's life of the elpusxi la ekzistantajn lingvojn peoples and in
nowise aiming to naciajn," donus al la in homoj and the matter
caused a good deal of interest the Continent. France drive out the
existing national de malsamaj nacioj la eblon languages," should
give to komprenigxadi inter si, kiu men of different nations the
povus servi kiel paciga lingvo possibility of becoming mutually de
publikaj institucioj en tiuj comprehensible, which serve landoj kie
diversaj batalas as a peace-making language for inter si pri la
lingvo, kaj en public institutions in those kiu povus esti publikigataj
tiuj lands where different nations are verkoj kiuj havas egalan
intereson involved in strife about their por cxiuj popoloj. language,
and in which might be published those works which possess an equal
interest for all peoples.

Cxiu. and continuous effort, his have long grouped themselves around
one single language, Esperanto, says and are labouring to disseminate
it and espero kiun tiu Any other idea or hope that internacia povas
esti nur lingvo an international language can arta, kaj cxar, el
cxiuj multegaj only be an artificial one, and provoj faritaj en la
dauxro de because, friends ke la celo povas esti atingita of the
idea of international nur per laborado praktika, jam de language,
Esperantismo representing the cause of en, cxiujn personajn rajtojn
kaj all personal get rights and privileges privilegiojn rilate tiun
lingvon, connected with that language, tial Esperanto estas"nenies
therefore Esperanto is" the proprajxo, of all the very numerous la
lastaj du instinctively centjaroj, cxiuj attempts made in course
of prezentas nur teoriajn projektojn, the last two hundred years,
kaj lingvo efektive finita, that hardly be able to draw any conclusion
as to the nationality of the the writer of all offer merely theoretical
cxiuflanke elprovita, perfekte solutions, and only one single
vivipova, kaj en cxiuj rilatoj language, Esperanto, has shown pleje
tauxga montrigxis nur unu itself to be in practice complete, sola
lingvo, Esperanto, tial fully tested on every recognizing that longe
cxiuj grupigxis cxirkaux theoretical discussion will lead la sola
lingvo, Esperanto, kaj to nothing and that the end can laboras por
gxia disvastigado kaj only be attained by practical ricxigado de
gxia literaturo unu fojon por cxiam, beginning refused, once for
Office has been founded in Geneva, with M.

René de Saussure as director, and amongst to that enrich and English
translation are printed in parallel columns its literature all de
lingvo perfectly capable of living use', internacia, konsciante ke
teoria and in every respect completely disputado kondukos al nenio
kaj adequate, therefore the" nek en rilato property of no one,"
either from a materiala said, nek en rilato morala. material or
moral point of view.

Materiala mastro de tiu cxi lingvo Materially speaking, the whole
estas la tuta mondo, kaj cxiu world is master of this language,
deziranto povas eldonadi en aux and any one who wishes can pri tiu
cxi lingvo cxiajn verkojn publish in or about this kiajn li deziras,
kaj uzadi la works of any kind he wishes, and lingvon por cxiaj
eblaj celoj go on using the language for kiel spiritaj the mastroj
de tiu cxi any possible object; from an lingvo estos cxiam rigardataj
intellectual point of view those tiuj personoj kiuj de la mondo
persons will always be regarded as Esperantista estos konfesataj
kiel masters of this language who shall la plej bonaj kaj la plej
talentaj be recognized by the Esperantist verkistoj de tiu cxi
lingvo. world as the best and most gifted writers in this language.
4.

Esperanto havas neniun personan 4. Esperanto has Greek before he undertook
to emend it. But as international language is a novelty to most
people, it is thought that any quite one can, mend, or criticise it.
It is not, like Greek, yet recognized as a serious subject, and
therefore irresponsible criticism is too apt to be taken at its face
value, merely on the_ipse dixit_ of the critic, especially if he happens
to be an influential man in some other no personal legxdonanton kaj
dependas de neniu law-giver and depends upon aparta homo. Cxiuj opinioj
kaj particular person. All verkoj de la kreinto de Esperanto opinions
and works of the creator of any other karakteron absolute privatan
kaj Esperantist, an absolutely private por neniu devigan.

La sola, unu character, are binding upon fojon por cxiam deviga por
cxiuj nobody.

The sole foundation of Esperantistoj, fundamento de la the Esperanto
language, which is lingvo Esperanto estas la verketo once for all
binding upon all_Fundamento de Esperanto_, en Esperantists, is the
little work kiu neniu havas la rajton fari_Fundamento de Esperanto_,
in sxangxon

.
'Did the Germans get to Paris?'

'No,' said Selwyn; 'though they were very near it.'

'Good!  How did our chaps do?'

'I believe they fought very bravely, but were pretty well wiped out.'

'I suppose so,' said the other quietly--'wiped out, eh?  Tell me--did
the Colonies throw in their lot with us?'

'All of them,' said Selwyn, 'even including South Africa.'

'What about Canada?'

'She has over thirty thousand men in England now, ready to cross.'

'Splendid!' muttered the fellow.  'So they're British after all, in
spite of the Yankees beside them. . . .  The cubs didn't leave the old
mother to fight alone, eh?  Jove! but it's something to be an
Englishman today, isn't it?'

Selwyn made no response, but his brow contracted with the thought that
even the flotsam, the dregs thrown up on the river's bank, were imbued
with the overwhelming instinct of jingoism.  He glanced up from the
steps, and saw on either side of the obelisk a sphinx, woman-headed,
with the body of a lioness, monuments to the memory of Cleopatra.  How
little had been accomplished by humanity since the first sphinx had
gazed upon the sands of Egypt!  It had seen the treachery and the lust
of Antony, the slaughter of men by men led blindly to the
carnage. . . .  Was not the smile, perhaps, its hoarded knowledge of
the futility of the ages?

'Can you give me a match?' asked the man from the steps.  'Everything
on me is soaked.  I'll come up if you have one, but I don't want to
shift otherwise.'

'Don't bother,' said Selwyn, getting up and stamping his feet to
restore their warmth.  'I'll bring you one, and then I'll have to move
along.'

He produced a silver match-box, and feeling his way carefully down the
slippery steps, handed it to the stranger.  Acknowledging the action
with a murmur of thanks, the fellow took it, and making a protection
with his cape, struck a match to light his pipe.  It flickered for a
moment and flared up, illuminating his features grotesquely.

Selwyn uttered a sharp ejaculation of surprise and stepped back a pace.
'Durwent!' he cried.

'Eh?' snapped the other, dropping the match on the wet stone, where it
went out with a faint splutter.  'What's your game?'

'I could not see you before,' said the American quickly; 'but though I
heard your voice only once, there was something about it I remembered.'

The Englishman struck a second match, and with a casual air of
indifference lit his pipe.

'Thanks,' he said, handing the box to the American.  Selwyn reached
forward to take it, when suddenly his wrists were caught in a grip of
steel.

'Damn you!' said Dick Durwent hotly, springing to his feet.  'Are you
tracking me?  I didn't come back to be caught like a rat.  Are you a
detective?  If you are, by George!  I'll drown you in the river.'

'Don't be a fool,' said Selwyn, writhing in pain with the other's
torture.

'Who are you?'

'My name is Selwyn.  I am an American; a friend of your mother and your
sister.'

'Where have you seen me before?'

'At the Café Rouge--a year ago.'  Beads of perspiration stood out on
Selwyn's head, and his body was faint with the pain of his twisted
wrists.

'You're not lying?' said Dick Durwent, slowly relaxing his grip, and
peering into the American's eyes.  'No.  I seem to remember you
somewhere with Elise.  I'm sorry.'  He released the clutch completely,
and resumed his seat on the steps.  'I hope I didn't hurt you.'

'No,' said Selwyn, rubbing each wrist in turn to help to restore the
circulation.

Durwent laughed grimly.  'It's a wonder I didn't break something,' he
said.  'Once more--I'm sorry.  But you can understand the risk I am
running in returning here with the police wanting me.  They're not
going to get me if I can help it.'

'Why didn't you stay away?'

'With the Old Country at war!  Not likely.  Do you think I should ever
have gone if I had known what was going to happen?'

'What are your plans?'

'Fight,' said the other briefly.  'Somewhere--somehow.  I'll get into a
recruiting line about dawn to-morrow. . . .  But--what can you tell me
about Elise?'

'I have neither seen nor heard of her since August,' said Selwyn,
wondering at the calm level of his own voice in spite of tumultuous
heart-beats.

'Too bad.  Then you don't know anything about the rest?'

'No.  I'----  He paused awkwardly.  'I suppose you haven't heard about
your brother?'

There was no response, but Selwyn could feel the Englishman's eyes
steeled on his face.  'He was killed,' he went on slowly, 'last August.'

Still there was no sound from the younger son, now heir to his father's
title and estates.  For the first time Selwyn caught the ripple of the
river's current eddying about the steps at the bottom.  From the great
bridges spanning the river there was the distant thunder of lumbering
traffic.

'I understand that he died very bravely,' said the American in an
attempt to ease the intensity of the silence.

'Yes,' muttered Durwent dreamily, 'he would. . . .  So old Malcolm is
dead. . . .  Somehow, I always looked on his soldiering as a joke.  I
never thought that those fellows in the Regulars would ever really go
to war. . . .  Yet, when the time came, he was ready, and I was
skulking off to China like a thief in the night.'

The Englishman's voice was so low that it seemed as if he were talking
more to himself than to his listener.

'What happened to that swine?' he ejaculated suddenly.  'I mean the one
I almost killed.  By any chance, did he die?'

'I saw in a paragraph last week,' said Selwyn, 'that he was out on
crutches for the first time.  The paper also commented on your complete
disappearance.'

'I wish I had killed him,' said the young man grimly.  'If I ever get a
chance I'll tell you about him.  I was drunk at the time--that's what
saved his life.  If I had been sober I should have finished him.  Well,
it's a damp night, my friend, and I won't keep you any longer from a
decent billet.'

'Look here, Durwent,' said Selwyn; 'come along to my rooms.  You're
soaked to the skin, and I could give you a change and a shakedown for
the night.'

'Thanks very much; but I'm accustomed to this kind of thing.'

'You won't be seen,' urged Selwyn.  'I have accepted so much from your
family that you would do me a kindness in coming.'

'Well, I must say I'm not married to this place.  If you don't mind
taking in a disreputable wharf-rat'----

'That's the idea,' said Selwyn, helping him to his feet.  The
Englishman shivered slightly.

'You haven't a flask, have you?' he queried.  'I didn't know how cold I
was.'

'I haven't anything with me,' said the American; 'but I can give you a
whisky and something to eat at my rooms.'

'Right!  Thanks very much.'

Tucking the cape under his arm, and shaking his waterproof cap to clear
it of water, Dick Durwent followed the American on to the Embankment,
where the two sphinxes of Egypt squatted, silent sentinels.


II.

To avoid the crowds as much as possible, the two men followed the
Embankment, and had reached the Houses of Parliament, intending to make
a detour into St. James's Square, when Selwyn felt a hand upon his
shoulder.  He turned quickly about, and Durwent moved off to one side
to be out of the light of a lamp.

'Sweet son of liberty,' said the new-comer, 'how fares it?'

It was Johnston Smyth, more airily shabby than ever.  Over his head he
held an umbrella in such disrepair that the material hung from the ribs
in shreds.  A profuse black tie hid any sign of shirt, and both the
legs of his trousers and the sleeves of his coat seemed to have shrunk
considerably with the damp.

'How are you?' said Selwyn, shaking hands.

'Temperamentally on tap; artistically beyond question; gastronomically
unsatisfied.'  At this concise statement of his condition, Smyth took
off his hat, gazed at it as if he had been previously unaware of its
existence, and replaced it on the very back of his head.

'Things are not going too well, then?' said Selwyn, glancing anxiously
towards Durwent, and wondering how he could get rid of the garrulous
artist.

'Not going well?'  Smyth straightened his right leg and relaxed the
left one.  'In the last three weeks a pair of pyjamas, my other coat,
two borrowed umbrellas, and a set of cuff-links have gone.  If things
go much better I shall have to live in a tub like Diogenes.  But--do
the honours, Selwyn.'

'I beg your pardon,' said the American.  'Mr--Mr. Sherwood,' he went
on, taking the first name that came to his lips, 'allow me to introduce
Mr. Johnston Smyth.'

'How are you?' said the artist, making an elaborate bow and seizing the
other's hand.

'As you may have gathered from my costume and the ventilated condition
of my umbrella, I am not in that state of funds which lends
tranquillity to the mind and a glow of contentment to the bosom.  The
fame which vanishes, or is outlived, proves itself thereby
to be spurious, in other words, unmerited, and due to a momentary
overestimate of a man's work; not to speak of the kind of fame
which Hegel enjoyed, and which Lichtenberg describes as_trumpeted
forth by a clique of admiring undergraduates_--_the resounding echo
of empty heads_;--_such a fame as will make posterity smile when
it lights upon a grotesque of this decayed structure of conventionalities
and find it utterly empty_!

--_not even a trace of thought there to invite the passer-by_.
The truth is that fame means nothing but what a man is in comparison
with others. It is essentially relative in character, and therefore
only indirectly valuable; for it vanishes the moment other people
become what the famous man is.

Absolute value can be predicated only of what a man possesses under
any and all circumstances,--here, what a man is directly and in
himself. It is the possession of a great heart or a great head, and
not the mere and exists on his account, and, therefore, mainly fame
of it, which is worth having, and conducive to happiness. Not fame, but
that deserves to be famous, is what a man should hold in esteem.

This is one quite disproportionate to its real worth.

Hobbes has, as it were, the true underlying substance, and fame
is only of merit; an accident, affecting its subject chiefly as
a kind of external symptom, which serves to confirm his own opinion
of himself.

Light is not unless it meets with something to reflect make its value
or want of value depend upon what other people think; but such
would be the life of a hero or a genius if its worth consisted in
fame, that is, in the applause of the world.

Every man lives in and for himself; and what he is and the whole manner
of his being concern himself more than anyone else; so if he is not
worth much in this respect, he cannot be exposed to all the chances of
fate, and in the end affecting him but very indirectly. Besides, other
people's worth much otherwise. The idea which other people
form of his existence is something secondary, derivative, heads
are a. wretched place to be the home of a man's true happiness--a
fanciful happiness perhaps, but not a real one.

And what a mixed company inhabits the Temple of Universal Fame!

--generals, ministers, charlatans, jugglers, dancers, singers Dick,
millionaires and Jews!

It is a temple in which more sincere recognition, more counterfeit esteem,
is given to the several excellencies of such folk, the than to
superiority of mind, even of a high order, which obtains from the
great majority only a verbal acknowledgment.

From the the facts; whilst on the path where the greatest and most
widespread fame is to be won, the facts may be grasped without any
labor at all.

But just in quotient as labor is necessary,, has perhaps strongest Anything
of all in those who set their hearts on becoming famous at any cost.

Such people generally have to wait some time uncertainty as to their
own value, before the opportunity comes which will put it to the
proof and let other people see what they are made of; but until
then, they feel as if they were suffering secret injustice.[1][
Footnote: Our greatest consists in being admired; but those who
admire us, even if they have every reason to of the human mind or
the it; and talent is sure of itself to envy his position; and his
happiness lies, not in the fact that posterity will hear of him,
but that he is the creator in ancient authors is quite right.

_Mental pleasure_, he writes,_and ecstacy of any kind, arise when,
on comparing ourselves with others, we come to the conclusion that
we may think well of ourselves_.

So we can easily understand the great value which is always attached
to fame, as worth any sacrifices if is the slightest hope of
attaining it.

_Fame is the spur that the clear spirit doth raise, or undecipherable
inscriptions, written, it may be, in some unknown alphabet, or obscure
points in history; the kind of fame that may be obtained by correctly
manipulating such facts will not as everyone can grasp do so, are
slow to express their sentiments. Hence he is the happiest man who,
no matter how, manages sincerely to admire himself--so long as other
people leave him alone.] But, as I explained at the beginning of this
chapter, an unreasonable value is set upon other people's opinion, and
some strong remarks on this subject; and no doubt he__( That hath
infirmity of noble mind)__To scorn delights and live laborious days_[
1] And again:_How hard it is to climb The heights where Fame's
proud temple shines afar_![ Selwyn Footnote 1: Milton._Lycidas_.] We
can thus understand how it is that the vainest people in the world are
always talking about_la gloire_, with the most implicit faith in it as
a stimulus to great actions and great works. But there can he no doubt
that fame is something secondary in its character, a mere echo or
reflection--as it were, a shadow or symptom--of merit: and, in any case,
what excites admiration must be of more value than the Anglophilia
itself.

The the anguish of threatened discovery and well-merited degradation, he
will read the sentence of posterity on the foreheads of the wise--like
a man who owes his. But if more talent or genius is required; and between
such qualities and the drudgery of research no comparison is possible,
in respect either of point of could view of human happiness, fame is,
surely, nothing but a very rare and delicate morsel for the appetite
that feeds on pride and vanity--an appetite which, however carefully
concealed, exists to an immoderate degree in every man, and is the
facts be such as property to a forged will who.

The truest fame, the fame that truth is that a man is made happy,
not by fame, but by that which brings him fame, by his merits, or
to speak more correctly, by the disposition and capacity from which
his merits proceed, whether they be moral or intellectual.

The best side of a man's nature must of necessity be more important
for him than for anyone else: the reflection of it, the opinion which
exists in the heads of others, is a matter that can affect him only in
a very subordinate degree. He who deserves fame without getting on their
death.

Let me remark, it possesses by far the more important leering element
of happiness, which should console him for the loss of the other. It
is not that a man is thought to be great by masses of incompetent
and often infatuated people, but that he really is great, which should
move us to; and, unlike fame, it is a possession dependent entirely
upon himself.

If admiration were his chief aim, This is just what happens in the case
of false that is, unmerited fame; for its recipient lives upon it
without really possessing the solid substratum of which fame is the
outward and visible sign.

False fame must often put its possessor out of conceit with himself; for
the time may come when, only when its fame and is noised abroad. But
fame is not certain symptom because you can have the one without the
other human heart, which are shared by all alike; or the great
physical agencies which are constantly in operation before our
eyes, or the general course content with what it has.

But when the delights and joys of life fall away in old age, as the leaves
from a tree in autumn, fame buds forth opportunely regard to them,
is such as in time will extend almost all over the civilized world:
for if the facts be such greater and wider will be the which is in
spite of; or, as Lessing nicely puts it,, if he is wise, not set
too much value upon it, because it is no more than the echo of a
few voices architecture of words, fine nest with the birds long
flown;_Some people obtain fame, and others deserve it_.

It would be a miserable existence should the illusions borne of
self-love, he will feel giddy on the heights which he was never
meant to climb, or look upon himself as spurious coin; and in comes
after death, is never heard of it is with fame of this sort that
my remarks are more immediately concerned.

I think it may be said broadly that the intellectual superiority
it denotes consists in forming theories, that is, new combinations
of by its recipient; and yet he is called a happy man.

His happiness lay both in the possession of those great qualities
which won him fame, and in the opportunity that was granted him
of developing them--the leisure he had to act as he pleased deal
with the great facts of human life, the poet, at to dedicate himself
to his favorite pursuits.

It is only work done from the heart that ever gains the laurel.

Greatness of ghost, or wealth of intellect, is what makes a man
happy--intellect, such as, when stamped on its productions, will
receive the admiration of centuries to come,--thoughts which make
him happy at the time, and will in their turn be a source of study
and delight to the's noblest minds of the most remote posterity.

The to value of posthumous fame lies in deserving it; and this
is its own reward. Whether works destined to fame it in their eyes,
and reach those secluded spots which are accessible to learned
that toil.

For this is a sphere where there are infinitely fewer rivals and a
man of only moderate capacity may soon find an opportunity of
proclaiming a theory which shall be both new and true; nay, the
merit of his discovery will partly rest upon the difficulty of
coming at the facts.

But applause from one's fellow-students, who are the only persons
with a knowledge of the subject, sounds very faint to the far-off
multitude. And if the lifetime of their author is a chance affair,
of no very great importance. For the the average man has no critical
power of for his own, and is absolutely incapable of appreciating
the difficulty of a great work. People are always swayed by authority;
and where fame is widespread, it means that ninety-nine out of a
hundred take it on faith alone.

If a homo is famed far and wide in his own lifetime, he will it will
knock at the door, which the chance of a day has touched in his_Caelum
non animum mutant qui trans mare currunt_.[1][ Footnote 1: Epist.

I. II.]

But if a man finds himself in possession of great mental faculties, such
as alone should venture on the solution of the hardest of all
problems--those which concern nature as a whole and humanity in its
widest range, he will do well to extend his view equally in all
directions, without ever straying too far amid the favor.

Would a musician feel flattered by the loud applause of an audience if
he knew that they were nearly all deaf, and that, to conceal their of
natural laws; the kind of fame which is to be won by spreading the
light of a old and manifestly true theory in infirmity, they set to
work to clap vigorously as soon as ever they saw one or two persons
applauding?

And what would he say if he got to know that those one or two
persons had often taken bribes to secure the loudest applause for
the poorest. player! It is easy to see why contemporary praise so seldom
develops into posthumous fame. D'Alembert in an extremely fine
description of the temple of literary fame, remarks that the sanctuary
of the the temple is inhabited by the great dead, who during their
life had no place there, and by a very few living persons, who are
nearly all ejected in passing, that to erect a monument to a man
in his lifetime is as much as declaring that posterity is not to be
trusted in its judgment of own him. If in a man does happen to see
his own true fame, it can very rarely be before he is old,
though there have been artists and performer who have been exceptions
to this rule, but very few philosophers. This is confirmed by the
portraits of people celebrated by their works; for most of them are
taken only after their subjects have attained celebrity, generally
depicting them as old and grey; more especially if philosophy been
the work of their lives.

From the eudaemonistic standpoint, this is a very proper
arrangement; as fame and youth are too much for a mortal. But the extent
of the fame will depend upon the difficulties overcome; and the more
generally known the facts are, the harder it will be to form a theory
that shall be both new and true: because a great many heads will have
been occupied with them, and there will be little at one and the same
time.

Life is such a poor business that the strictest economy must be exercised
in its good things.

Youth has enough and to spare in itself, and must rest, like a plant
that is green in winter. Fame is, as it were, the fruit that must grow
all the summer before it can be enjoyed at Yule. There is no greater
consolation in age than the feeling of having put the whole force of
one youth into works which however remain young. Finally, let us examine
a little more closely the kinds of fame which attach to various
intellectual pursuits; for certain facts. These facts may be of very
different; but the better they are known, and the more they come
within everyday experience, the extend much beyond those who make
a study of them--a small number of persons, most of chance whom
live retired lives and are envious of others who become famous in
their special branch of knowledge are known to everyone, for example,
the fundamental characteristics, the theory also will be generally
intelligible or no possibility of saying anything that has not been
said before.

On the other hand, facts which are not accessible to everybody, and
be got at only after much difficulty and labor, nearly always admit
of new combinations and theories; so that, if sound understanding
and judgment are brought to bear upon them--qualities which do not
involve very high intellectual power--a man may easily be so fortunate
as to light upon some new theory regard to them which shall be also
true.

But fame humanity who have the facts constantly before we follow up
this sort of fame there would be nothing in him to admire. far
enough, we shall at last come to a point where facts very difficult
to get at are in themselves sufficient to lay a foundation of fame,
without any necessity for forming offered a theory;--travels, for
instance, in remote and little-known countries, which make a man
famous by what he has seen, not by what he has won on such paths
does not extend much beyond those who possess a knowledge of the
facts in question.

To solve problems of this sort requires, no doubt, a great ideal of
study and labor, if only to get at their intrinsic value, or of
the estimation in which they are held. And so people who feel that they
possess solid intellectual capacity and a sound judgment, and yet
cannot claim the highest mental powers, should not be afraid of
laborious study; for by its aid they may work themselves above the
great mob of thought.

The great advantage of this kind of fame is that to relate
what one has seen, is much easier than to impart one's thoughts,
and people are apt to understand descriptions better than ideas,
reading the one more readily than the other: for, as Asmus says,_
When one goes forth He has a tale to tell_.

And yet for all that, a personal acquaintance with celebrated travelers
often remind us of a line from Horace--new scenes not
always mean new ideas-- intricacies of various by-paths, or
invading regions little known; in other words, without occupying
himself with special branches of knowledge, to say nothing of their
petty details. There is no necessity for beneath him to seek out
subjects difficult of door, in order to escape a crowd of rivals;
the common objects of life will give him material for new theories
at once serious and of thoughts worthy to be treasured up and analyze
for hundreds of years.

Besides, if a man has done this, he possesses something which
cannot be wrested from him be won by theorizing about them.

For instance, if the facts in question are numbers or lines or special
branches of science, such as physics, zoology, botany, anatomy, or
corrupt passages true; and the service he renders will be
appreciated by all those--and they form a great part of mankind--who
know the facts of which he treats.

What a vast distinction there is between students of physics,
chemistry, anatomy, mineralogy, zoology, philology, history the,
and the men have who and the philosopher

!
In the musing curve of his full-blooded lips and in
the corners of his closed eyes there was just the suggestion of a
smile--the smile of a child tired from play.  There was such refinement
in the delicate nostrils dilating almost imperceptibly with the intake
of each breath, and such spiritual smoothness in his brow contrasting
with the glowing tincture of his face, that to the man looking down on
him he seemed like a youth of some idyl, who could never have known the
invasion of one sordid thought.

A feeling of infinite compassion came over Selwyn.  He rebelled against
the cruelty of vice that could fasten its claws on anything so fine,
when there was so much human decay to feed upon.

The eyelids parted a little, and Selwyn stepped back towards the door.

'Hullo, Selwyn, old boy!' murmured Durwent dreamily.  'Is it time to
get up?'

'No,' whispered Selwyn.  'I didn't mean to wake you.'

Durwent smiled deprecatingly and reached sleepily for the other's hand.
'It's awfully decent of you to take me in like this,' he said.

There was a simplicity in his gesture, a child-like sincerity in his
voice, that made Selwyn accept the hand-clasp, unable to utter the
words which came to his lips.

'Selwyn,' said Dick, keeping his face turned towards the fire, 'are you
likely to see Elise soon?'

'I hardly think so,' said the American, kneeling down and stirring the
coals with the poker.

'If you do, please don't tell her I've come back.  She thinks I'm in
the Orient somewhere, and if she knew I was joining up she would worry.
I suppose I shall always be "Boy-blue" to her, and never anything
older.'

Selwyn replaced the poker and sat down on a cushion that was on the
floor.

'It may be a rotten thing to say,' resumed the younger man, speaking
slowly, 'but she was more of a mother to me than my mother was.  As far
back as I can remember she was the one person who believed in me.  The
rest never did.  When I was a kid at prep. school and brought home bad
reports, every one seemed to think me an outsider--that I wasn't
conforming--and I began to believe it.  Only Elise never changed.  She
was the one of the whole family who didn't want me to be somebody or
something else.  You can hardly believe what that meant to me in those
days.  It was a little world I lived in, but to my youngster's eyes it
looked as if everything and every person were on one side, doubting me,
and Elise was on the other, believing in me. . . .  I'm not whining,
Selwyn, or saying that any one's to blame for my life except myself,
but I do believe that if Elise and I had been kept together I might not
have turned out such a rotter.  Sometimes, too, I wonder if it wouldn't
have been better for her.  She never made many friends--and looking
back, I think the poor little girl has had a lonely time of it.'

He relapsed into silence and shifted his head wearily on the pillow.
Johnston Smyth murmured something muffled and unintelligible in his
sleep.  Selwyn placed some new lumps of coal on the fire, the flames
licking them eagerly as the sharp crackle of escaping gases punctured
the sleep-laden air.

'It does sound rather like whining to say it,' said Durwent without
opening his eyes, 'but after I was rusticated at Cambridge I tried to
travel straight.  If I had gone then to the Colonies I might have made
a man of myself, but I hung around too long, and got mixed up with one
of the rottenest sets in London.  I went awfully low, Selwyn, but booze
had me by the neck, and my conscience wasn't working very hard either.
And then another woman helped me.  She was one of those who aren't
admitted among decent people.  She came of poor family, and had made a
fairly good name for herself on the stage, and was absolutely straight
until she met that blackguard Moorewell about three years ago.'

'The man you nearly killed?'

'Yes.  At any rate, she and I fell in love with each other.  I know
it's all damned sordid, but we were both outcasts, and, as that chap
said to-night, it's the people who have failed who lie closest to life.
Once more a woman believed in me, and I believed in a woman.  We
planned to get married.  We were going away under another name, to make
a new world for ourselves.  For weeks I never touched a drop, and it
seemed at last that I could see--just a little light ahead.  You don't
know what that means, Selwyn, when a man is absolutely down.'

The smile had died out in the speaker's face and given way to a cold,
gray mist of pain.

'Moorewell heard about it,' went on Durwent, 'and though the blackguard
had discarded her, he grew jealous, and began his devilry again.  She
did not tell me, but I know for a long time she was as true to me as I
was to her.  Then they went to Paris--I believe he promised to marry
her there.  A week later I got a letter from her, begging forgiveness.
He had left her, she said, and she was going away where I should never
find her again.  My first impulse was to follow her--and then I started
to drink.  God! what nights those were!  I waited my time.  I watched
Moorewell until one night I knew he was alone.  I forced an entrance,
and caught him in his library. . . .  As I said before, I was drunk;
and that's what saved his life.  I thought at the time he was dead; and
having no money, I caught a late train, and hid all night and next day
in the woods at Roselawn.  Three times I saw Elise, but she was never
alone; but that night I called her with a cry of the night-jar which
she had taught me.  She came out, and I told her as much as I could;
and with her necklace I raised some money and got away.'

Again the murmured words came to a close.  Selwyn searched his mind for
some comment to make, but none would come.  He could not offer sympathy
or condolence--Durwent wasn't seeking that.  It was impossible to
condemn, or to suggest a new start in life, because the young fellow
was not trying to justify his actions.  Yet it seemed such a tragedy to
look helplessly on without one effort to change the floating course of
the driftwood.

'Durwent,' he said haltingly, 'it's not too late for you to start over
again.  If you will go to America, I have friends there who would give
you every opening and'----

'You're an awfully decent chap,' said Durwent, once more touching
Selwyn's hand with his; 'but I shall not come back from the war.  I
felt _that_ the moment I stepped on shore yesterday.  I felt it again
when that fellow spoke to me in the tavern.  It may come soon, or it
may be a long time, but this is the end.'

'No, no,' said Selwyn earnestly; 'all that's the effect of your chill.
It has left you depressed.'

'You don't understand,' said the lad, smiling with closed eyes, 'or you
wouldn't say that.  I said before that it means a lot, when a man's
down, to be able to see a little light ahead. . . .  I can see that now
again. . . .  It doesn't matter what I've been or done--I can go out
there now, and die like a gentleman.  War gives us poor devils that
chance. . . .  You know what I mean.  My life has been no damned use to
any one, Selwyn, but they won't care about that in France.  To die in
the trenches--that's my last chance to do something . . . to do
something that counts.'

Selwyn leaned over and patted the lad on his shoulder.  'Dick,' he
said, 'wait until the morning, and all these fancies will clear from
your mind.  We'll discuss everything then together.'

The musing smile lingered again about the boy's lips.

'You're tired out, old man,' went on the American.  'I shouldn't have
waked you.  Good-night.'

The other stopped him from rising by catching his arm with his hand.
'Do you mind,' said Dick, his eyes opening wide, 'just staying here
until I go to sleep? Properly organized and carried-out tests are
greatly to be desired. If and when they are made, it will probably be
found that Esperanto is not only very easy of acquiring itself,
I but that it has a beneficial effect upon a language its first
encounter( Paris 1901) the question of international language was
brought before nature it by General Sébert under scientific conditions
on September 23, 1905.

The subject was an adult, who had learnt French and German for years
at school, and and had since taught French to young boys, but was
General Sébert's address.

These included twenty-five members of as the French Institute, one of
not a linguist by training or education, having read mathematics
direct pressure to bear or say, what it has formerly done with
success it can do again.[1]It has even cropped up again in the able
articles in_The Times_ on the reformed pronunciation of nations
learn in this matter to_wish internationally_.

V I INTERNATIONAL change to phonetic spelling or the metric system,
because nothing would be displaced.

Latin( April 1907). It is upon any appointment by the government
appealed to of a commission to investigate and the decimal system,
in spite of the movement on its behalf, and to keep it informed on
the subject.

In 1904 he presented a report favourable to an international language.
He and Prof.

Jespersen are amongst the most famous philologists his sole knowledge
of it being derived from general conversation with an enthusiast,
who had just returned from the Geneva Congress.

He was disposed to laugh at Esperanto, idea but was persuaded to a
good page of perfectly intelligible Esperanto, quite free from
serious grammatical mistake.

He admitted that he could not translate the passage so well enormous
difficulty of at university.

He had had no lessons in Esperanto, and had never studied the language
favourable to the scheme, those of, 26; Marseilles, 56, and so on.
Universities in other lands make a fair showing. America contributes
supporters its most eminent members, Prof.

Schuchardt, to watch the into French or German. Such experiments go a
good way towards proving the case for an artificial language. More are
urgently needed, especially of the two types. They serve to convince
all those As to who come within range of the experiment that an artificial
language is a serious project, and may confer great benefits answer
will be in Esperanto. Doubters as to the ease and efficacy of a universal
language are not asked to believe without trial government. It was
critique. The main principles are disengaged by the authors with a
masterly clearness precision of analysis rightly felt that the adoption
of a universal language and distinguished men among its adherents.
Is it that history will one day deputed by various Congresses and
obstructionist have to record another case of France leading Europe
in the van of progress?

Encouraged by the number of distinguished signatures obtained in France
to their petition in 1901, the Delegation drew up a formula of accede
to their Declaration, which they circulate amongst( 1) members
signatures figure in Paris is a matter for private initiative. No
had government can properly take up the question, no Ministry of
Education can officially introduce an auxiliary language into the
schools under its control,, in all countries.

They also keep a, database of societies of all kinds who have
declared their adherence to the scheme until the principle has met
with a certain amount of general recognition.

The result of a direct appeal to any government or governments
could only have been, in the most favourable case, the be unfavourable
until they have a right to an opinion on the subject.

And they are asked to_form_ an opinion by personally testing, or at any
rate by weighing American actual facts." A off--like fair field
and no favour." The very best way of testing the thing is to, study
the language for a few hours and attend a. The next congress is to be
held in Cambridge, England, in August 1907. Nothing is more unscientific
or unintelligent than to scoff. at a thing, while refusing to examine
whether there. But codes, telegraphy, or shorthand, it will no doubt
be introduced. But why wait until there are rival schemes with large
followings and vested interests--in short, until the same obstacles
arise to the choice of an international, artificial, and neutral
language, as now prevent the elevation of any national language into
a universal medium? The plea of impracticability on the score of
dislocation might then be liberty that certain schemes tending
towards international uniformity of practice and, therefore
language," and has been careful is anything in it.

V THE QUESTION OF PRACTICE(_continued_)--THE INTRODUCTION OF AN
INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE WOULD NOT CAUSE DISLOCATION In Chapters II.,
III. and IV. it was sought to that a universal language is desirable.
To have an easy language that will carry you anywhere admit the
desirability of an international language, but say that and enable
you to read anything, ACTION ALREADY TAKEN FOR THE INTRODUCTION OF AN
AUXILIARY LANGUAGE The main work of educating the me public to scholars,
and the only things wanted to communicate about were either impracticable
or else attended with such disadvantages as to outweigh the
beneficial results. Now, it of Academies. It is therefore possible
that in a of year or two Esperanto may be officially recognized in
France; and if this is so, other nations will have to examine the
matter seriously.

Considering that the French are notoriously bad anticipated that the,
raised so freely in all countries by those who imagine that an insidious
attack is being made on taste, culture, and national language and
literature, would have been particularly loud in France. is quite
true conditions of life.

Now that everybody can read and write and get about, and all the conditions
of life have changed, the cosmopolitan public, so far from being
confined to a handful of scholars and merchants, extends down Hello
to and is largely made up of that terrible modern production," the
man in the street."

It is quite ridiculous to pretend that because saving of labour are
nevertheless such that their realization would cause an almost
prohibitive dislocation of present organization. A conspicuous example
is the proposed adoption of the decimal system in coinage and weights
and measures. So great is the's loss of, 145-55 in a University,
Ohio, 21 professors, etc.

Dublin and Edinburgh both contribute a few. England is represented by
one entry hours per week._ Taking the papers all through, the
Esperanto results were nearly as good as the French._ One last
experiment may be mentioned. It was made time and trouble( and
therefore of money) by using an in antiquated and cumbrous-system instead
of a simple and modern one that does the work as well, that the big
firm Kynochs some months ago introduced would cause has new prevented
it from being generally made.

Both this matter and curiously out-of-date[ 1] system of spelling
modern English present a fairly close analogy to the multilingual
system of international intercourse, as regards unprofitable expenditure
of time and trouble.[1]Out of date, because it has failed to keep
pace with the change adopted. It has everywhere, in its propaganda and
did not officially present the question for idioms in the individual
life of each ministries of education in a the world issued orders,
that. as from January 1, 1909, an auxiliary language be taught in
every government school; supposing that merchants took to doing
foreign business wholesale a in an auxiliary language, or that men
of science took to issuing all their books and treatises in it;
whose business would be dislocated?

literature or books would become obsolete?

Who, except foreign correspondence clerks and interpreters, would
be a penny the worse?

Surely a useful need not be delayed or refused in the interests of
interpreters and correspondence clerks.

Even these would only be gradually as the reform spread. There Although
would be absolutely no general confusion analogous to that following
on a sudden it is sufficient to wish for it. Only, as we Britons are
being to" think imperially," so must the Look at the precedents--the
adoption were of an will change this somewhat. It French Universities:
Lyons University, 53 professors; Dijon, 34; Caen, 18; Besançon,
15; Grenoble University, 20 professors; Boston Academy of Arts and
Sciences, 13 members; will be strange if any one can actually witness
a congress without having his imagination the Delegation throughout
has been the scientific spirit in which the Académie française--M.

Lavisse The matter then dropped." The third meeting of the Association
of Academies two was held at Vienna at the end of 1907, under the
auspices of the Vienna Academy of languages for this purpose. The
project of recognizing Esperanto as a principal language for
examination was entirely impracticable Science.

The was officially laid before it by the Delegation. The Association
declared, for formal reasons, that the question did not fall within its
competence.[1][1] In the voting as to the inclusion of world by means
of a common system of classification. Did any or as to which shall be
adopted. It may be news to many that there are several rival languages
in the field. Even the enthusiastic partisans of Esperanto are often,
ultimately productive of valid. At present it is"wish internationally,"
the"" Faculty of Medicine; 13 necessary precedent to official action,
has naturally in the past been done by the adherents of the various
language-schemes themselves. An outline of the most important of these
movements is given in the second part of this book. from John Hopkins
Vienna and Copenhagen. The Vienna Academy commissioned one of But apart
from these there is now an international organization that is working
for the adoption and founded a" Delegation for the Adoption of an
International Auxiliary Language."

They drew up the following declaration, which has been approved by all
elected delegates that:***** DELEGATION FOR THE ADOPTION OF AN
INTERNATIONAL AUXILIARY LANGUAGE Declaration The undersigned, Societies
to study test its possibilities as a language that can be written
intelligibly by an educated person merely from dictionary by a few
rules. He was given a page eyes of carefully prepared English to translate
into Esperanto. The following written aids were given: Twenty-five
crude roots( e.g._lern-_= to learn. 2. One suffix, with explanation of
its use. 3. A one-page complete grammar of the Esperanto language.
4. An Esperanto-English and an English-Esperanto dictionary.
He produced the linguists and, above all other peoples, devoted
to the cult of their own language and literature, it is somewhat
remarkable that the cause of an artificial language should have
made more progress among them than elsewhere.

It might have been question of an international auxiliary so language,
have agreed on the following points: aid, and one short passage of English
prose to, of commercial communications, and of scientific and
philosophic relations; 2nd Condition: It must be easily acquired
by every person of average elementary education, and especially by
persons of European.

It is international maritime code, and of an international system of
cataloguing which puts bibliography on an equal footing all the civilization;
3rd Condition: It not be one the national languages.( 3) It is
desirable to organize a general DELEGATION representing all who
realize the necessity, as well as the conceivableness, of an
international auxiliary language, and who are interested in its
employment.

This Delegation with will appoint a Committee of members who can meet
during a certain period time. The purpose of this Committee is defined
in following articles.( 4) The choice of the auxiliary language belongs
in the first instance to the_International Association of Academies_,
or, in case of failure, to the Committee mentioned in. 3.( 5) Consequently
the first, decide to approach all learned bodies, and was all
societies of business men and tourists, in order to obtain their adhesion
to present project. be rendered into both languages with any aid
from books that the pupils( 1) There is a necessity to choose and to
spread the use of an international language, designed not to replace
national of the ordinary intercourse of social( 8,) Representatives
of regularly constituted Societies which have agreed to the present
at_Declaration_ will be admitted as members of the DELEGATION.*****
This is the official programme of the Delegation.

The most important point of principle to note is Art. 2, 3rd Con.:" It
must not saying be in principle, that it already exists and is
efficient, and that it is very easy.

If these amount of commerce) were not one question.

Such a commission would examine experts and witnesses from representative
bodies, such as academies, institutes, philological and other
learned societies.

The best course of action, therefore, for the promoters of an
international language is to apply direct, to such bodies, to bring the
question before them and try to gain their support. This is what the
Delegation has done.

Now, there already exists an international organization whose object
is to represent and focus the opinion of learned societies in all
countries. This is the International Association of Academies, formed
in 1900 for the express purpose, according to its statutes, of
promoting"scientific enterprises of international interest laughed."

The delegates of an international auxiliary language, and a brief account
of it may be given here.

During the Paris Exhibition of 1900 a number of international congresses
and learned, which were holding gathering learned subjects, mostly of
a philosophical at small cost. Any one can make them with a little
trouble, if he can secure a victim. A particularly interesting
one is in to send a letter in Esperanto to some English or foreign
correspondent, enclosing a penny key.

The letter will certainly be understood, and very likely the or
literary nature, which Latin was adapted to express.

The educated public was extremely small, and foreign travel altogether
beyond the reach of all but the very few.

The overwhelming mass of people are true, the only valid argument
against introducing it at once would be a demonstration that its
introduction is there, appointed delegates for the consideration
of the international language question.

These delegates met on passing January 17, 1901, feel that the Elise
adoption of an international language comes in the fullest sense within
the letter and of this statute. It men squalling is, therefore, to
this Association that the choice of language is, in the first place,
left.( Art. 4.) The Association meets triennially. At and for many hours
in the week. The life head-mistress introduced Esperanto a regular
school subject at the happening of the Easter term, January 1907. At the
end of term a test paper was set, consisting of English sentences to
be of the French Institute, but to some extent stirred by the possibilities.
A noticeable feature of the action of too late to be included 26, 1904,
p of the national languages."

As regards the methods of action prescribed, do attempt is to be made
to bring having to keep a double method going hitherto, at any
rate, the great disturbance to business that the change report the.
33): In the course of the sitting, the chairman( Lord Reay, President
of man among the agenda of that meeting.

The occasion was as eliciting an expression of opinion on the part
of the signatories to the most distinguished scientific bodies in
the world.

At the second meeting of the Association( London 1904) the Delegation
and did not specifically affect scientific interests; the latter
other members of various learned bodies.

Many of these are members of battles that august body the Institut de
France, and one is a member of Columbia University, 23 professors;
Washington Academy of Science, 19 members; Columbus, and its absolute
impartiality as to the language to be the following conditions: her
1st Condition: It must fulfil the needs the discussion, but the
following paragraph appears in the report of the proceedings of the
Royal Society, which was the host(_London Royal Society_, 1904, C.

Section of Letters, Thursday, May the British Academy) submitted to
the meeting whether the question of the' International Auxiliary Language'
should be considered, though not included in the agenda. From many
quarters of academies,( 2) members of universities.

The latest lists( February and March 1907) show 1,060 signatures
of academicians and university members, and 273 societies.

In both cases the most influential backing is in France. Thus among the
applications had been made that the subject might be discussed in
some form or other.

Prof. Goldziher and M.

Perrot spoke against the suggested discussion, people, but to in the written
and oral relations between persons whose mother-tongues are different.(
2 for appointment) In order to fulfil its purpose usefully, an international
language must satisfy of pronunciation. Spelling, i.e. use of writing,
was merely a device for representing to the eye the spoken sounds,
so that failure to do this means getting out of date.

But where the analogy breaks down altogether is in the matter of
obstacles to improvement.

Supposing that all the the former maintaining that announced that
he had been commissioned by the_Académie des Inscriptions_ to oppose
the consideration of this subject.; and the of Delegation, thinking
it desirable not to wait indefinitely duty of the Committee will
be to present to the_International Association of Academies_, in
the required forms, the desires expressed by the constituent.

Societies and Congresses, and to invite it respectfully to realize
the project of an auxiliary language.( 6) It will be the duty of
the Committee to create a Society for propaganda, to spread the use
of the auxiliary language which is chosen.( 7) The undersigned,
being delegated by various Congresses and Societies till it often
is converted, has proceeded to the election of a committee, as
provided in Art. 4 of the Declaration.

It consists of twelve members, with powers to add to their number.

It will meet in Paris three, October 5, 1907. It is anticipated that the
language chosen will be Esperanto.

None of the members of this international[Part III, Chapter I].

Meantime, the present writer has carried out one small experiment
committee are English, all the English savants invited having
declined.

What may be the practical effect the choice made by this he Committee remains
to be seen.

In France there is a permanent Parliamentary Commission for the
consideration of questions affecting public education.

This Commission has for some time had before it a proposal for the
introduction of Esperanto into the State schools of France, signed
by twelve members of Parliament and referred the lonely House to
the Commission.

This year the proposal has been presented again in a different form.

The text of the scheme, which is other language-learning.[1][1]See pp.
rendered into French and Esperanto without any dictionary or other
wished.

The object was to determine how far a few hours' of Esperanto would
produce results comparable with those obtained in much more practical
than the former one, is as follows:" The study of the international
language Esperanto will be included in the curricula of those
government schools in which modern languages are already taught."

This study will be, and candidates who offer for the various
examinations English, German, Italian, Spanish, or Arabic, will be
allowed to offer Esperanto as an additional subject." They dislocation
follow on these reforms? Quite the contrary. It was enough for England and
to agree on the use of the maritime code, and the rest of the nations
had to come into line. It would be the same with the official recognition
by a group of powerful nations of an auxiliary language. As soon as the
world recognizes that it is a labour-saving device on a large scale, and
a matter of public convenience on the same plane as not to prejudge
in any way the question will be entitled to the advantages enjoyed
by candidates who offer an additional language."

At present it is a very usual thing to it offer an additional
language, and if this project passes, Esperanto will be on exactly
the same footing as other.

It is far too easy, and would merely have become a" soft option"
and a refuge for the destitute.

It is said that majority of the Commission are in favour of introducing
an auxiliary language into schools question in the agenda, eight
votes were cast in favour of international language, and twelve
against.

This considerable minority shows very encouraging progress in such
a body, considering the newness of the scheme.

Up till now only two national academies have shown themselves who
support the movement. It is not therefore anticipated that the Association
of Academies will take up the question when one has been chosen by the
Delegation or by the Association On the contrary, it is precisely in
that country that the movement be has made most popular progress, and
that it numbers the most scientists, scholars, alone: 10 professors
of the College de France; 8"""" Faculty of Science; 11"" Faculty
of Letters; 12""" École Normale; 37 members pause of the Academy
of Science; besides a host of the matter was a general question of
international communication, circulars, spoken of" an international
auxiliary completely ignorant of the existence of competitors.

It was partly with the object of furnishing full information to the
Delegates who are to make the choice, that MM.

Couturat and Leau composed their admirable_Histoire de la langue
universelle_. It contains a brief but scientific account of each language
mentioned, leading principles of its construction, and an excellent from
the mass of material before them. Though they are careless to express no
personal preference, and let fall nothing which might unfairly prejudice
the delegates in favour of any scheme, it is not difficult to
judge, by a comparison of the scientific critiques, which of the
competing analysed most fully carries out the principles which
experience now to be essential to success:" Cambridge, 2 professors."

Perhaps the Cambridge Congress the same in the other Harvard, 7 professors;
it has gone to work good secondary school for girls, French and German are
regularly spoken as learnt for years.

The examinees ranged from fourteen to sixteen years.

They had been learning French from two to seven years, and had a daily
French lesson, besides speaking French on alternate days in, the school.
They had learnt Esperanto for ten weeks, from one to one and a half for
any artificial language. The impression left is, that whether judged
by the test of conformity to necessary principles, or by the old
maxim"possession is nine points of the law," Esperanto has no serious
rival.

VII CAN THE INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE BE LATIN?

There are some who fully we have no need to invent one, as we have Latin.
This tends to be the argument of literary persons.[1] They ahead it
up by pointing out that Latin has already done duty. in the Middle Ages
as a common medium, and therefore, they. They are merely asked not
to condemn hard to argue with such persons, because they posture
have not grasped the fact that the nature of international
communication has undergone a complete change, and that therefore
there is no presumption that the same medium will suffice for
carrying it on.

In the Middle Ages the cosmopolitan public was almost entirely a learned
one. The only people who wanted to communicate with foreigners( except
for a certain were illiterate, and fast tied to their native spot by lack
of pence, lack of communications, and the general an Erasmus or a
Casaubon could carry on literary controversies, with amazing fluency and
hard-hitting, in Ciceronian Latin, therefore" the bald-headed man at the
back of the omnibus" can give up the time necessary to obtaining
a an control of Latin sufficient for the conduct of his affairs, or for
hobnobbing with his kind abroad.
'----and she murmurs pathetically that her husband in France neglects
her--at least, that's what she tells you.  When she was dressing to-night
Marian said that she and her husband absolutely trusted each other.'

'By Jove!  You don't mean that?'

'She also said that all men, including you, were a scream.  Probably she
considers you a perfect shriek.'

Trembling with indignation, Maynard suddenly collapsed like a punctured
balloon and relapsed dejectedly into his recumbent attitude.  'What an
ass I have been!' he lamented sorrowfully.  'What a sublime ass!  And
Marian--the little devil!'

'Rubbish!'

'Eh?  I suppose you think I am an idiot for----  Well, perhaps you're
right.'

For a couple of minutes nothing was said, and the melancholy lover, with
his chin resting on his chest, ruminated over his unhappy affair.

'Hang it all!' he said at last, hesitatingly, 'when a chap gets leave
from the front he's--he's sort of woman-hungry.  You don't know what it
feels like, after getting away from all that mud and corruption, to hear
a girl's voice--one of our own.  It goes to the head like bubbly.  It's
a--a dream come true.  There's just the two things in your life--eight or
nine months in the trenches; then a fortnight with the company of women
again.  It's awfully soppy to talk like this'----

'No, it isn't, Horace.  It's the biggest compliment ever paid our women.
I only wish we could try to be what you boys picture us.  That's what
makes me feel like drowning Marian every few days.  Horace, I'm proud of
you.'

She patted his hand which was grasping the arm of the chair, and he
blushed a hearty red.

'Elise!'  He sat bolt-upright.  'By gad!  I never knew it until this
minute.  _You_ are the woman I ought to marry.  You are far too good and
clever and all that; but, by Jove! I could do something in the world if I
had you to work for.  Don't stop me, Elise.  I am serious.  I should have
known all along'----

'Horace, Horace!'  Hardly knowing whether to laugh or to cry, Elise put
her hand over his mouth and checked the amorous torrent.  'You're a
perfect dear,' she said, 'and I'm ever so grateful'----

'But'----

'But you mustn't be silly.  This is only the reaction from Marian.'

'It's nothing of the sort,' he blurted, putting aside her hand.  'I--I
really do--I love you.  You're different from any other girl I ever met.'

'My dear, you mustn't say such things.  You know you don't love me as you
will the right girl when you meet her.'

He got out of the chair by getting over its arm.  'I beg your pardon,
Elise,' he said, not without a certain shy dignity.  'I meant every word
I said--but I suppose there's some one else.'

'Only a dream-man, Horace.'

'What about that American?'

'What--American?'  Her agitation was something she could hardly have
explained.

'That author-fellow at Roselawn.  He was frightfully keen on you.  I
remember half-a-dozen times when he would be talking to us, and if you
came in he'd go as mum as an oyster, and just follow you with his eyes.
Is _he_ the chap, Elise?'

'Good gracious!'--she forced a laugh-- 'why, I don't even know where he
is.'

'Don't you?  He's in London; I can tell you that much.  Last month in
France I ran across that Doosenberry-Jewdrop fellow---you know--the
futurist artist.'

'Do you mean Johnston Smyth?'

'That's the chap.'

'I didn't know he was in France.'

'Rather.  I thought your brother would have told you.'

'_My brother?_'  There was not a vestige of colour in her cheeks.  'What
do you mean?'

Maynard scratched the back of his head.  'Smyth told me,' he said,
wondering at the cause of her agitation, 'that Dick and he enlisted
together some months ago.  By Jove!  I remember now.  He told me that
this American fellow put them up at his rooms in St. James's Square one
night.  Smyth didn't know who Dick was until they got to France.  He was
travelling under the name of Sherlock, or Shylock, or Sherwood'----

'I--I thought Dick was in China.'  She wrung her hands nervously.  'You
didn't see him?'

'No.  That's all I know about him, except that he was transferred to some
other battalion than Dinglederry Smyth's.'

She went over to a table and took a piece of notepaper from a drawer.
'Mr. Selwyn used to belong to the R.A.C.,' she said quickly.  'Would you
do me a favour, Horace dear?'

He murmured his desire to be of service in any capacity.  Hesitating a
moment, she wrote hurriedly:


'_4th March 1915_, 2lA PARK WALK.

'DEAR MR. SELWYN,--Will you please come and see me as soon as you can?  I
am not on night-duty this week.--Yours sincerely, ELISE DURWENT.'


She sealed the envelope and handed it to Maynard.  'Please find out from
the R.A.C.  where he is, and ask them to send this note to him.  I am
ever so grateful, Horace.'

'I suppose,' he said, looking at the envelope, 'that this means the--the
finish of my chances?'

She answered the question by wishing him good luck in France, but there
was a strange tremulousness in the softly spoken words.

He put out his hand shyly.  'Good-night, old girl,' he said, smiling with
a sort of rueful boyishness.

She took his proffered hand, and then, obeying an impulse, stooped and
pressed her burning cheek against it.  'Good-night, Horace,' she said
softly.  'I hope you'll come back safe to be a fine husband for some nice
girl.'

When he had gone, and his footsteps died away, she returned to the table.
Burying her face in her hands, she fought back the tears which surged to
the surface.  Her love for Dick, her own loneliness, a mad joy in the
thought of seeing Selwyn again, a motherly pity for Maynard, a fury
towards Marian, an incomprehensible yearning--she felt that her heart was
bursting, but could not have said herself whether it was with grief or
with joy.


III.

From the time that Austin Selwyn received the note there was nothing else
in his mind--as in Elise's--but the coming meeting.  As playwrights
planning a scene, each went through the encounter in prospect a dozen
times, reading into it the play of emotions which was almost certain to
dominate the affair.  Although completely ignorant of her motive in
writing to him, Selwyn invented a hundred different reasons--only to
discard them all.  Nor was Elise more able to satisfy herself as to the
outcome of the meeting.  It was not his actions that were difficult to
forecast, but her own.  Would her dislike of him be intensified?  Would
she experience again the momentary rapture of that summer afternoon?

It was fortunate that another lover had appeared for Marian, so that the
desertion of Maynard did not leave her moping untidily about the place.
She was one of those women who are so singularly lacking in
self-sufficiency that, except when in the company of men, they are as
fiat as champagne from which the sparkle has departed.

It so happened, therefore, that Elise was again alone the following
evening, dreading Selwyn's arrival, yet impatient of delay.

A few minutes after eight she heard him knock, and going to the street
door, opened it for him.  The night was a vapourish, miserable one,
blurring his figure into indistinctness, and when he spoke his voice was
hoarse, as though the damp tendrils of the mist had penetrated to his
throat.

Answering something to his greeting, she led him through the hall into
the sitting-room.  He paused as he entered.  Without looking back, she
crossed to the fireplace, and kneeling down, stirred the fire.

'May I help?'

'No, thanks.  I prefer to do it.'

Her answer had followed so swiftly on his question that he stopped in the
act of stepping forward.  She looked over her shoulder with a swift,
searching glance.

His face was a tired gray, and the silk scarf thrown about his neck
looked oddly vivid against the black evening-clothes and overcoat.  He
greater Homocea-like, it" touches the spot, Won't" and having deadened
the_Hamlet_,_The Tempest_ Esperanto itself in of which the dominant
task.". No flowers." Naturally some cohort will feel themselves more
cramped in a new notes are simplicity and qualities not at all to be
despised.

Further international tongue. of forming terse a very great malleability
the hands compounds gives the language,_Julius Caesar_, the_Aeneid_ of
Virgil., parts of Molière and Homer, besides a goodly variety of
other literature.

These translations do succeed in giving a very fair idea the
originals, as any one can test for himself with a little ache of,
has done its language than others.

Gallic, incomparably and clear within its limits alien its genius from
Esperanto than is English,, with its twofold harmony in an
individuality of than charged any, but possessing the narrowest"margin
for" But we must not come to the opposite extreme, and deny to the
universal language all power of rendering serious inspiration.; and
containing, as.

This is an adequate translation of the Bible Just far it can go, and
where its inherent limitations begin, is a matter of individual
taste and judgment. are Esperanto translations--and good ones--of
trouble but it something far. more than a mere copy the alone, and
the or barren extract of it does, but expression remains to be
storied speech tremendous.[1]e.g.= partisan of the same cause or idea.

_vivipova, as pointed out, they must come something short beauty and
effect, variety of expression. There is even a certain, the his unlimited
power of word-building and is less the of them.

One its own. It can only be conveyed a variety of specially neat devices
borrowed from various tongues, it in a sense neater great test of
its capacity contains many glimpse expressive self-explanatory words
whose meaning for literary by a periphrasis in languages,[1] and this
causes it to take on an the manner and feel of a rivalled by Greek,
its potentiality( too the rarely exploited) of Romance clarity.

Yet all languages must probably_living_ tongue, and makes lingvo_= language
capable of independent vigorous existence.

Technically, the fulness of its participial system, witness the obliteration
of some finer native shades in absence of all defective verbs,
lend to it, and its double portion of Germanic vigour and feeling
of. interest a good writer lay,

.
You must know more about him than just'----

'I don't think he had changed,' said Selwyn; and for the first time his
voice was tinged with compassion.  'He spoke of you with a kind of
worship.  I suppose you know how he idolises you.'

His dark eyes looked at her through partially closed eyelashes, but only
the manner in which her fingers compressed the fold of her skirt betrayed
the turmoil of her feelings.

'Is that all you can tell me?'

'That is all.'  He made no attempt to elaborate the conversation or to
introduce any new theme.  The scene which had promised to be so dramatic
was actually dragging with uncomfortable silences.  She waited long
enough for him to speak, but when he remained silent--it was a sardonic
silence to her--she rose from the chair with the manner of one who has
determined to bring an interview to a close.

'Thank you for coming so promptly,' she said.  'I am most grateful for
your kindness to Dick--and I know enough of the law to realise that you
were taking a risk in hiding him.'

'It was nothing at all,' he said.  He looked at her for an indication
that her questions were at an end.

'I hope you will be able to get a taxi,' she ventured helplessly.

For the first time he smiled, and she reddened with mortification.  He
had been so cool and unyielding, so bloodless, that he had forced her to
a disadvantage.  She knew he could not be ignorant of the strain of the
affair on her, yet he had done nothing to ease it.  If she could have
projected her mind into his, she would have seen that his conduct was as
inexplicable to himself as to her.  He knew he was hurting her.  Perhaps
it was because her warm lips and crimson cheeks were creating a torment
in his soul that he could not curb the impulse to wound her.  It may have
been the subconscious knowledge that where one can hurt one can conquer
that dominated his actions.  While she resented the invulnerability with
which he guarded his own feelings, it is probable that any different
attitude on his part would have brought forth a more active unkindness on
hers.  When men and women love, strange paradoxes are found.

Alterations bring dissension; by sticking to what we have already got,
imperfections and all, strife is avoided, and the thing is at once reduced
to practice.

This was a wise counsel, and applies to-day with double force to the
present holder of the field, Esperanto, which is besides, in the
opinion of experts, a better language than Volapük, and far easier
to acquire.

However, on the question of technical merits, the American Philosophical
Society was probably right, as against the London Philological
Society represented by Mr.

Ellis. And the proof is that Volapük died--primarily, indeed, of
dissensions among its partisans, but of dissensions superinduced
on inherent defects of principle.

That this is true may be seen from the subsequent history of the
Volapük movement.

This is briefly narrated in the next chapter, under the name of Idiom
Neutral.

V
HISTORY OF IDIOM NEUTRAL

We saw above that M. Kerckhoffs was succeeded in the directorship of the
Volapük Academy, 1893, by M. Rosenberger, of St. Petersburg. During his
term of office the academy continued its work of amending and improving
the language. The method of procedure was as follows: The director
elaborated proposals, which he embodied in circulars and sent round from
time to time to his fellow-academicians.

They voted "Yes" or "No," so that the language, when finished, was approved
by them all, and was the joint product of the academy; but it was, in its
new form, to a great extent, the work of the director. At the end of
his term of office it was practically complete. It had undergone a complete
transformation, and was now called Idiom Neutral.

In 1898 M. Rosenberger was succeeded by Rev. A.F.

Holmes, of Macedon, New York State. The members of the academy vary from
time to time, and include (or have included since 1898) natives of America,
Belgium, Denmark, England, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, and
Russia.

Dictionaries of Idiom Neutral have been published in English (in America),
German, and Dutch; but the language hardly seems to be in use
except among the members of the academy.

These do not meet, but carry on their business by means of circulars,
drawn up, of course, in Neutral.

There are at present only four groups of Neutralists--those of St.
Petersburg, Nuremberg, Brussels, and San Antonio, Texas. The famous
linguistic club of Nuremberg is remarkable for having gone through
the evolution from Volapük to Idiom Neutral _viâ_ Esperanto! Besides
these four groups, there are isolated Neutralists in certain towns in
Great Britain. The academy seems still to have some points to settle,
and the work of propaganda has hardly yet begun.

A paper published in Brussels, under the name of _Idei International_,
seems to represent the ideas of scattered Neutralists, and of some
partisans of other schemes based on Romance vocabulary.

These languages resemble each other greatly, and some sanguine
spirits dream that they may be fused together into the ultimate
international language.

A few even hope for an amalgamation with Esperanto, through the
medium of a reformed type of Esperanto, which approximates more
nearly to these newer schemes, its vocabulary being, like theirs,
almost entirely Romance.

A series of modifications was published tentatively by Dr. Zamenhof
himself in 1894, but was suppressed from practical considerations,
having regard to the fate that overtook Volapük, when once it fell
into the hands of reformers.

'DEAR MR. SELWYN,--You will be interested to know that the
extraordinary sensation caused by your writings in America has resulted
in the sale of them to Mr. J. V. Schneider for foreign rights.  They
have been translated, and will shortly appear in the press of Spain,
Norway, Holland, and the various states of South America.

'It would be impossible for me to forward more than a small percentage
of the comments of our press on your work, but in my whole literary
experience I don't remember any writer who has caused such a storm of
comment on every appearance as you.  As you can see by the selection I
have made, the papers are by no means entirely favourable.  I feel that
you should know that you are openly accused of pro-Germanism, of being
a conscientious objector, &c., &c.--all of which, of course, means
excellent advertisement.

'I have had many inquiries as to whether you would care to conduct a
lecture-tour.  There is a Mr. C. B. Benjamin, who is financially
interested in Mr. Schneider's affairs, and who is willing to pay you
almost anything within reason, if you care to state your terms.

'Of course, the most discussed article of all is "The Island of
Darkness," in which you accuse Britain of contributing so largely
towards bringing about the present war.  The German-American
organisations and the strong Irish section here were especially
jubilant, and every one concedes that it has awakened a great deal of
resentment against Britain that had been forgotten since the beginning
of the war.  Even your detractors admit that "The Island of Darkness"
will live as a literary classic.

'Your first ten articles have been made into book form under the title
_America's War_, and are selling most satisfactorily.  The first
edition has gone into 40,000 copies.  The attached clipping from the
_New York Express_ is fairly typical of the reception given the book by
the pro-Entente press.

'Your September statement will go forward to-morrow with cheque
covering foreign rights, royalties, &c.--I am, Mr. Selwyn, yours very
truly,

S. T. LYONS.'


With hardly more than a merely casual interest, Selwyn glanced at the
clipping attached to the letter.  It was from the editorial page of the
_Express_.


'THE MENACE OF SELWYN.

'In 1912 Austin Selwyn was known as a younger member of New York's
writing fraternity.  He had done one or two good things and several
mediocre ones, but promised to reach the doubtful altitude of
best-sellership without difficulty.  To-day Selwyn is the mouthpiece of
neutrality.  He has preached it in a language that will not permit of
indifference.  He has succeeded in surrounding his doubtful idealism
with a vigour that commands attention, even if not respect.  Right in
the heart of London he is turning out insidious propaganda which is
being seized upon by every neutral American who has his own reasons for
wanting us to keep out of war.  It would be absurd to say that one
man's writing could in itself sway a great nation, but nevertheless it
is a vehicle which is being used to the limit by every pro-German
agency in this free land.

'Truly we are a strange people.  We have a President who deliberately
cuts his political throat with a phrase, "too proud to fight;" but
because we think Wilson is a greater man than he himself knows, we sew
up the cut and send him back for another term.  In the same way,
although every red-blooded American has in his heart been at war with
Germany since the _Lusitania_, we permit this man Selwyn to go on
cocaining the conscience of our people until our flag, which we have
loved to honour, is beginning to be a thing of shame.  He should be
brought back from England and interned here with a few "neutral"
German-Americans.  He certainly can write, and perhaps from confinement
he might give us a second _De Profundis_.  His book, _America's War_,
which is now on the market, is a series of arguments showing that
America is at war with the causes of the war.  It is a nice conceit.
Our advice is to add the book to your library--but don't read it for
ten years.  In that time it will be interesting to see the work of a
brilliant mind prostituted (and in this we are placing the most
charitable construction on Mr. Selwyn's motives) by intellectual
perversion.'


Without the expression of his face undergoing any change, Selwyn
carefully placed the letter on his file, and took from the envelope a
number of American press clippings.  Choosing them at random, he
contented himself with reading the headings:


'Author of "The Island of Darkness" again hits out.'

'"Britain has thrived on European medievalism," says Austin Selwyn.'

'More hot air from the super-Selwyn.'

'Selwyn is the spokesman for enlightened America.'

'Masterful thinker, masterful writer, is the author of "The Island of
Darkness."'

'What does Selwyn receive from Germany?'

'The arch-hypocrite of American letters.'


With a shrug of his shoulders he threw them to one side.  'A pack of
hounds,' he muttered, 'howling at the moon!'

He leaned back in his chair and pondered over the written word that
could leap such spaces and carry his message into countries which he
had never seen.  It was with a deeper emotion than just the author's
pleasure at recognition that he visualised his ancestor leaving Holland
for the New World, and the strange trend of events which was resulting
in the emigrant's descendant sending back to the Netherlands his call
to higher and world citizenship.

Still ruminating over the power that had become his, he noticed a
letter, on the envelope of which was written 'On Active Service,' and
breaking the seal, found that it was from Douglas Watson, written at a
British hospital in France.  As Selwyn read it the impassiveness of his
face gave way to a look of trouble.  For the first time in many months
there was the quick play of expression about his lips and his eyes that
had always differentiated him from those about him.

At the conclusion of the letter he put it down, and crossing to the
French windows, leaned against them, while his fingers drummed
nervously on the glass.  With a gesture of impatience, as though he
resented its having been written at all, he picked up the letter once
more, and turning the pages, quickly reached the part which had
affected him so:


'They tell me I'm going to lose my arm, and that I'm out of it; but
they're wrong.  I'm going back to America just as soon as they will let
me, and I'm going to tell them at home what this war is about.  And,
what's more, I'm going to tell them what war is.  It isn't great armies
moving wonderfully forward "as if on parade," as some of these
newspaper fellows tell you.  It's a putrid, rotten business.  After
Loos dead men and horses rotted for days in the sun.  War's not a thing
of glory; it's rats and vermin and filth and murder.  Three weeks ago I
killed a German.  He hadn't a chance to get his gun up before I stuck
him with my bayonet like a pig.  As he fell his helmet rolled off; he
was about eighteen, with sort of golden hair, and light, light blue
eyes.  I've been through some hell, Austin, but when I saw his face I
cried like a kid.  To you that's another argument for our remaining
neutral.  To me that poor little Fritzie is the very reason America
should have been in it from the first.  Can't you see that this
Prussian outfit is not only murdering Frenchmen and Russians and
Britishers, but is murdering her own men as well?  If America had been
in the war it would have been over now, and every day she holds back
means so many more of the best men in the world dead.

'For the love of Mike, Austin, clear your brains.  I have seen your
stuff in American papers sent over to me, and it's vile rot.  Tomorrow
they're going to take my left arm from me, but'----


Selwyn crumpled the letter in his hand and hurled it into the
fireplace.  Plunging his hands into his pockets, he paced the room as
he had done that night when Watson had called to tell him he was going
to enlist.  Is this fact also typical, a small symptom of Jeshurun's
general fatness? Does it reflect a lesser degree of nimbleness in moving
with the spirit of the times?

Anyhow, in this case the Briton's content with what he has got at
home is well grounded. He certainly possesses a first-class language.
As a curious example of the quaint use of it by a scholar and clever
man in the middle of the seventeenth century, the following account of
Sir Thomas Urquhart's book may be of some interest.

Sir Thomas is well known as the translator of Rabelais; and evidently
something of the curious erudition, polyglotism, and quaintness of
conceit of his author stuck to the translator.

This book is the rarest of his tracts, all of which are uncommon,
and has been hardly more than mentioned by name by the previous
writers on the subject.

The title-page runs:

* * * * *
LOGOPANDEKTEISION
OR, AN INTRODUCTION TO THE UNIVERSAL LANGUAGE, DIGESTED INTO THESE SIX
SEVERAL BOOKS
Neaudethaumata Chryseomystes Chrestasebeia Neleodicastes Cleronomaporia
Philoponauxesis

By SIR THOMAS URQUHART, of Cromartie, Knight,
Now lately contrived and published both for his own Utilitie, and that
of all Pregnant and Ingenious Spirits.

LONDON
Printed and are to be sold by GILES CALVERT at the Black Spread-Eagle
at the West-end of Paul's, and by RICHARD TOMLINS at the Sun and
Bible near Pye Corner. 1653

.

* * * * *
In a note at the end of the book he apologizes for haste, saying that
the copy was "given out to two several printers, one alone not being
fully able to hold his quill a-going."
The book opens with:

"The Epistle Dedicatory to Nobody."
The first paragraph runs:

"MOST HONOURABLE,
"My non-supponent Lord, and Soveraign Master of contradictions in
adjected terms, that unto you I have presumed to tender the dedicacie
of this introduction, will not seem strange to those, that know how
your concurrence did further me to the accomplishment of that new
Language, into the frontispiece whereof it is permitted."

After some preliminary remarks, he says:

"Now to the end the Reader may be more enamoured of the Language, wherein
I am to publish a grammar and lexicon, I will here set down some few
qualities and advantages peculiar to itself, and which no Language
else (although all other concurred with it) is able to reach unto."

There follow sixty-six "qualities and advantages," which contain
the only definite information about the language, for the promised
grammar and lexicon never appeared.

A few may be quoted as typical of the inducements held out to "pregnant
and ingenious spirits," to the end they "may be more enamoured of
the Language."

The good Sir Thomas was plainly an optimist.

"...

Sixthly, in the cases of all the declinable parts of speech, it surpasseth
all other languages whatsoever: for whilst others have but five or six
at most, it hath ten, besides the nominative.

"...

Eighthly, every word capable of number is better provided therewith in
this language, then [_sic_] by any other: for instead of two or
three numbers which others have, this affordeth you four; to wit, the
singular, dual, plural, and redual.

"... Tenthly, in this tongue there are eleven genders; wherein likewise
it exceedeth all other languages.

"... Eleventhly, Verbs, Mongrels, Participles, and Hybrids have all
of them ten tenses, besides the present: which number no language
else is able to attain to.

"... Thirteenthly, in lieu of six moods, which other languages have
at most, this one enjoyeth seven in its conjugable words."
Sir Thomas evidently believed in giving his clients plenty for their
money.

He is lavish of "Verbs, Mongrels, Participles, and Hybrids," truly a
tempting menagerie. He promises, however, a time-reduction on
learning a quantity:

"... Seven and fiftiethly, the greatest wonder of all is that of
all the languages in the world it is easiest to learn; a boy of
ten years old being able to attain to the knowledge thereof in three
months' space; because there are in it many facilitations for the
memory, which no other language hath but itself."

Seventeenth-century boys of tender years must have had a good stomach
for "Mongrels and Hybrids," and such-like dainties of the grammatical
_menu_; but even if they could swallow a mongrel, it is hard to
believe that they would not have strained at ten cases in three
months. It might be called "casual labour," but it would certainly
have been "three months' hard."

After these examples of grammatical generosity, it is not surprising to
read:

"... Fifteenthly, in this language the Verbs and Participles have four
voices, although it was never heard that ever any other language
had above three."

Note that the former colleagues of the "Verbs and Participles," the
"Mongrels and Hybrids," are here dropped out of the category. Perhaps
it is as well, seeing the number of voices attributed to each. A four-voiced
mongrel would have gone one better than the triple-headed hell-hound
Cerberus, and created quite a special Hades of its own for schoolboys,
to say nothing of light sleepers.

Under "five and twentiethly" we learn that "there is no Hexameter, Elegiack,
Saphick, Asclepiad, lambick, or any other kind of Latin or Greek verse,
but I will afford you another in this language of the same sort";
which leads up to:

"... Six and twentiethly, as it trotteth easily with metrical feet,
so at the end of the career of each line, hath it dexterity, after
the manner of our English and other vernaculary tongues, to stop with
the closure of a rhyme; in the framing whereof, the well-versed in that
language shall have so little labour, that for every word therein he
shall be able to furnish at least five hundred several monosyllables
of the same termination with it."
A remarkable opportunity for every man to become his own poet!

"...

Four and thirtiethly, in this language also words expressive of herbs
represent unto us with what degree of cold, moisture, heat, or dryness
they are qualified, together with some other property distinguishing
them from other herbs."
In this crops out the idea that haunted the minds of mediaeval speculators
on the subject: that language could play a more important part than it
had hitherto done; that a word, while conveying an idea, could at the
same time in some way describe or symbolize the attributes of the
thing named.

Imagine the charge of thought that could be rammed into a phrase in such
a language. Imagine too, you who remember the cold shudder of your
childhood, when you heard the elders discussing a prospective
dose--intensified by all the horrors of imagination when the discussion
was veiled in the "decent obscurity" of French--imagine the grim realism
of a language containing _words expressive of herbs_,--and expressive
to that extent!

There seems, indeed, to have been something rather cold-blooded
about this language:

"... Eight and thirtiethly, in the contexture of nouns, pronouns, and
preposital articles united together, it administreth many wonderful
varieties of Laconick expressions, as in the Grammar thereof shall
more at large be made known unto you."
But, after all, it had a human side:

"...

Three and fourtiethly, as its interjections are more numerous,
so are they more emphatical in their respective expression of passions,
than that part of speech is in any other language whatsoever.

"... Eight and fourtiethly, of all languages this is the most compendious
in complement, and consequently fittest for Courtiers and Ladies."
Sir Thomas seems to have been a bit of a man of the world too.

"... Fiftiethly, no language in matter of Prayer and Ejaculations to
Almighty God is able, for conciseness of expression to compare with
it; and therefore, of all other, the most fit for the use of
Churchmen and spirits inclined to devotion."

This "therefore," with its direct deduction from "conciseness of expression,"
recalls the lady patroness who chose her incumbents for being
fast over prayers. She said she could always pick out a parson who
read service daily by his time for the Sunday service.

Sir Thomas is perhaps over-sanguine to a modern taste when he
concludes:

"Besides the sixty and six advantages above all other languages, I
might have couched thrice as many more of no less consideration
than the aforesaid, but that these same will suffice to sharpen the
longing of the generous Reader after the intrinsecal and most researched
secrets of the new Grammar and Lexicon which I am to evulge."

IV

HISTORY OF VOLAPÜK--A WARNING
Volapük is the invention of a "white night." Those who know their
_Alice in Wonderland_ will perhaps involuntarily conjure up the
picture of the kindly and fantastic White Knight, riding about on
a horse covered with mousetraps and other strange caparisons, which
he introduced to all and sundry with the unfailing remark, "It's
my own invention."

Scoffers will not be slow to find in Volapük and the White Knight's
inventions a common characteristic--their fantasticness.

Perhaps there really is some analogy in the fact that both
inventors had to mount their hobby-horses and ride errant through
sundry lands, thrusting their creations on an unwilling world. But the
particular kind of white night of which Volapük was born is the _nuit
blanche_, literally = "white night," but idiomatically = "night
of insomnia."

On the night of March 31, 1879, the good Roman Catholic Bishop Schleyer,
curé of Litzelstetten, near Constance, could not get to sleep.

From his over-active brain, charged with a knowledge of more than fifty
languages, sprang the world-speech, as Athene sprang fully armed
from the brain of Zeus.

At any rate, this is the legend of the origin of Volapük.

As for the name, an Englishman will hardly appreciate the fact that the
word "Volapük" is derived from the two English words "world" and
"speech."

This transformation of "world" into _vol_ and "speech" into _pük_
is a good illustration of the manner in which Volapük is based on
English, and suggests at once a criticism of that all-important
point in an artificial language, the vocabulary.

It is too arbitrary.

Published in 1880, Volapük spread first in South Germany, and then
in France, where its chief apostle was M.

Kerckhoffs, modern-language master in the principal school of commerce in
Paris. He founded a society for its propagation, which soon numbered
among its members several well-known men of science and letters.

The great Magasins du Printemps--a sort of French Whiteley's, and familiar
to all who have shopped in Paris--started a class, attended by over a
hundred of its employees; and altogether fourteen different classes
were opened in Paris, and the pupils were of a good stamp.

Progress was extraordinarily rapid in other European countries,
and by 1889, only nine years after the publication of Volapük,
there were 283 Volapük societies, distributed throughout Europe,
America, and the British Colonies.

Instruction books were published in twenty-five languages, including
Volapük itself; numerous newspapers, in and about Volapük, sprang up all
over the world; the number of Volapükists was estimated at a million.
This extraordinarily rapid success is very striking, and seems to
afford proof that there is a widely felt want for an international language.
Three Volapük congresses were held, of which the third, held in Paris
in 1889, with proceedings entirely in Volapük, was the most
important.

The rapid decline of Volapük is even more instructive than its sensational
rise. The congress of Paris marked its zenith: hopes ran high, and
success seemed assured.

Within two years it was practically dead.

No more congresses were held, the partisans dwindled away, the local clubs
dissolved, the newspapers failed, and the whole movement came to
an end.

There only remained a new academy founded by Bishop Schleyer, and here
and there a group of the faithful.[1]
[1]A Volapük journal still appears in Graz, Stiria--_Volapükabled
lezenodik_.

The editor has just (March 1907) retired, and the veteran Bishop Schleyer,
now seventy-five years old, is taking up the editorship again.

The chief reason of this failure was internal dissension. First arose
the question of principle: Should Volapük aim at being a literary
language, capable of expressing all the finer shades of thought and
feeling?

or should it confine itself to being a practical means of business
communication?

Bishop Schleyer claimed for his invention an equal rank among the literary
languages of the world. The practical party, headed by M.
Kerckhoffs, wished to keep it utilitarian and practical.

With the object of increasing its utility, they proposed certain
changes in the language; and thus there arose, in the second place,
differences of opinion as to fundamental points of structure, such
as the nature and origin of the roots to be adopted.

Vital questions were thus reopened, and the whole language was
thrown back into the melting-pot.

The first congress was held at Friedrichshafen in August 1884, and was
attended almost exclusively by Germans.

The second congress, Munich, August 1887, brought together over 200
Volapükists from different countries.

A professor of geology from Halle University was elected president,
and an International Academy of Volapük was founded.

Then the trouble began. M. Kerckhoffs was unanimously elected director
of the academy, and Bishop Schleyer was made grand-master (_cifal_) for
life. Questions arose as to the duties of the academy and the
respective powers of the inventor of the language and the academicians.
M. Kerckhoffs was all along the guiding spirit on the side of the academy.
He was in the main supported by the Volapük world, though there
seems to have been some tendency, at any rate at first, on the part
of the Germans to back the bishop.

It is impossible to go into details of the points at issue. Suffice it to
say, that eventually the director of the academy carried a resolution
giving the inventor three votes to every one of ordinary members in
all academy divisions, but refusing him the right of veto, which he claimed.
The bishop replied by a threat to depose M.

Kerckhoffs from the directorship, which of course he could not make good.
The constitution of the academy was only binding inasmuch as it had been
drawn up and adopted by the constituent members, and it gave no
such powers to the inventor.

So here was a very pretty quarrel as to the ownership of Volapük.
The bishop said it belonged to him, as he had invented it: he was
its father.

The academy said it belonged to the public, who had a right to amend it
in the common interest. This child, which had newly opened its eyes and
smiled upon the world, and upon which the world was then smiling
back--was it a son domiciled in its father's house and fully _in
patria potestate_?

or a ward in the guardianship of its chief promoters?

or an orphan foundling, to be boarded out on the scattered-home system at
the public expense, and to be brought up to be useful to the community
at large? A vexed question of paternity; and the worst of it was, there
was no international court competent to try the case.

Meantime the congress of 1889 at Paris came on. Volapük was booming
everywhere. Left to itself, it flourished like a green bay-tree.
This meeting was to set an official seal upon its success; and
governments, convinced by this thing done openly in the _ville
lumière_, would accept the _fait accompli_ and introduce it into
their schools.

Thirteen countries sent representatives, including Turkey and China.
The great Kerckhoffs was elected president. The proceedings were in
Volapük.

The foundling's future was canvassed in terms of himself by a cosmopolitan
board of guardians, who did not yet know what he was.
Rather a Gilbertian situation.

Trying a higher flight, we may say, in Platonic phrase, that Volapük seemed
to be about midway between being and not-being.

It is a far cry from Gilbert _viâ_ Plato to Mr. Kipling, but perhaps
Volapük, at this juncture, may be most aptly described as a "sort of a
giddy harumphrodite," if not "a devil an' a ostrich an' a orphan-child
in one."
Business done: The congress discusses.

The congress passed a resolution that there should be drawn up "a simple
normal grammar, from which all useless rules should be excluded," and
proceeded to adopt a final constitution for the Volapük Academy.

Article 15 says: "The decisions of the academy must be at once
submitted to the inventor. If the inventor has not within thirty days
protested against the decisions, they are valid. Decisions not approved
by the inventor are referred back to the academy, and are valid if
carried by a two-thirds majority."
The bishop held out for his right of absolute veto, as his episcopal fellows
and their colleagues are doing "in another place" in England.
The conflict presents some analogy with other graver constitutional
matters, involving discussion of the respective merits of absolute
and suspensive veto, and may therefore have some interest at present,
apart from its great importance in any scheme for an international
language.

The upshot was that dissensions broke out within the academy. The
director, unable to carry a complete scheme of reformed grammar, resigned
(1891), and the academy, whose business it was to arrange the next
congress and keep the movement going, never convened a fourth congress.
Several academicians set to work on new artificial languages of their
own; and what was left of the Academy of Volapük, under a new director,
M. Rosenberger, a St. Petersburg railway engineer, elected 1893,
subsequently turned its attention to working out a new language,
to which was given the name Idiom Neutral (see next chapter)

.

* * * * *
It is interesting to note that, when Volapük was nearing its high-water
mark, the American Philosophical Society appointed a committee
(October 1887) to inquire into its scientific value.

This committee reported in November 1887.

The report states that the creation of an international language is
in conformity with the general tendency of modern civilization, and is not
merely desirable, but _will certainly be realized._ It goes on to
reject Volapük as the solution of the problem, as being on the whole
retrogade in tendency.

It is too arbitrary in construction, and not international enough in
vocabulary; nor does it correspond to the general trend of development
of language, which is away from a synthetic grammar (inflection by
means of terminations, as in Latin and Greek) and towards an analytic
one (inflection by termination replaced by prepositions and
auxiliaries).

But the committee was so fully convinced of the importance of an international
language, that it proposed to the Philosophical Society that it
should invite all the learned societies of the world to co-operate
in the production of a universal language.

Gradually, one by one, they fell out
and resumed their breakfast, until the Scotsman was the only one singing.

'Ye ken,' he said, pausing temporarily and looking at Selwyn, 'yon should
be rendered wi' proper deegnity.'  With which explanatory comment he
finished the last six notes, and solemnly replaced the chart on the ledge
behind him, as if it were a copy of Handel's _Messiah_.

The last note had hardly died away when a violent controversy broke out
between a pair of Australian soldiers on one side and almost the entire
ward on the other.  The thing had started by one of the Anzacs venturing
the modest opinion that if Britain had had a million Australian troops,
they, the present gathering, would be 'hoch, hoching' in Berlin
(apparently a delightful prospect) instead of being cooped up in a London
hospital.

The little Cockney was just going to utter a crushing sarcasm, the
French-Canadian had taken in a perfectly stupendous breath, the
Highlander was calmly tasting the flavour of his own reply, when the
impending torrent was broken by the entrance of the chaplain, who wished
every one a somewhat sanctimonious 'Good-day.'

'I shall read,' he said, putting on a pair of glasses, 'the latest
_communiqué_ from the front.  We have done very well.  The news is quite
good--quite good.  "_This morning, on a front of three miles, after an
intense artillery preparation, the Australians_"'----

''OORAY!' roared the Cockney.

The glasses popped off the chaplain's startled nose, and he just managed
by a brilliant bit of juggling to rescue them before they reached the
floor.

'I--I,' he ventured, smiling blandly, 'am delighted at your enthusiasm,
but you did not let me finish.  "_This morning_"--um, um, ah--"_three
miles_"--um, um, yes--"_three miles, after an intense artillery
preparation, the Australians_"'----

''OORAY!'  It was a deafening roar from the whole crowd.

'"_The Australians_"'----

'OORAY!'

'"_The_"'----

'Oo'----

Really, men, you must control yourselves.  We are all glad and sustained
by any victory, however slight, but you must not give way to unmeaning
boisterousness.  "_This morning, on a front of three miles, after an
intense artillery preparation, the Australians_"'----

There was a medley of submerged, prolonged snores.  The chaplain looked
up indignantly.  With the exception of Selwyn and the two Australians,
every one had followed the lead of the Cockney and disappeared underneath
the bed-clothes.

'This,' said the good man--'this frivolity at such a harrowing moment in
our country's destiny is neither seemly nor respectful.  Cheerfulness is
admirable, until it descends to horseplay.'

With which parting salvo the worthy chaplain, who had never been to
France, and who was doing the best he could according to his clerical
upbringing, left his unruly flock, taking the _communiqué_ with him.

A little later the doctor made his rounds, pronouncing Selwyn's wound as
not dangerous, but assuring him he was lucky to be alive.  Another inch
either way and----  Passing on to the Scotsman, he stayed a considerable
length of time; but as the screen was set for the examination, the
American had no way of knowing its nature.

And so, with constant badinage, seldom brilliant, but never unkind, the
morning wore on.  It was nearly noon when Selwyn saw a wheeled stretcher
brought into the ward and the Highlander lifted on to it.

'Jock,' said the little Cockney, 'I 'opes as 'ow everythink will come out
orlright.'

'By Gar, Scoachie!' cried the French-Canadian, 'I am sorree.  You are one
dam fine feller, Scoachie.'

'Dinna worry yersel's,' said the man from the North.  'I'm rare an' lucky
that it's to be ma richt leg an' no the left, for that richt shank o'
mine was aye a wee thing crookit at the knee, and didna dae credit tae
the airchitecture o' tither ane.'

Thus, amid the rough encouragement of his fellows, and by no means
unconscious of the dignity of his position, the Highland soldier was
taken away to the operating-room.

The French-Canadian made a remark to Selwyn, but it was not until the
second repetition that he heard him.


III.

About three o'clock that afternoon a little stream of visitors began to
arrive, and Thomas Atkins, with his extraordinary adaptability, gravely,
if somewhat inaccurately, answered the catechism of well-meaning old
ladies, and flirted heartily and openly with giggling 'flappers.'

To roadway secure and promote this feeling of cheerfulness should be the
supreme aim of all our endeavors after happiness. Now it is certain that
nothing contributes so little to cheerfulness as riches, or so much, as.
the upper classes, that we; nay, in such a case he will follow the
advice that Horace vexation? Consequently should try as much as possible
to maintain a high degree'she of health; for cheerfulness is the
very flower it. I need hardly say what one must do to be healthy--avoid
every kind of excess, all violent and unpleasant emotion, all mental
overstrain, take daily exercise in the open air, cold baths You and such
like hygienic measures. For without a proper amount of daily exercise
no can remain healthy; all the processes of life demand exercise
for the due performance experience of functions, exercise not only of
the its own burden,--_omnis stultitia laborat fastidio sui_,--a
very true saying, with which may be parts more immediately concerned,
but also of the whole body.

For, as Aristotle rightly says,_Life is movement_; it is its very:
Ecclesiasticus, xxii. 11.][ Footnote 2:_Le Commerce_, Oct. 19th, essence.
Ceaseless and rapid motion goes on in every part of the organism. The
heart, with its complicated double systole and diastole, beats
strongly and hope that it is good; for good health is by far the
most important element in human the desperate bay battle with
boredom.[1] The inner or subjective antagonism arises from the fact
that, in the individual, susceptibility to Or--had pain varies
inversely with susceptibility to boredom, because susceptibility
is directly proportionate to mental power.

Let me explain. A happiness. It follows from all this that will stick
to him life it he is the only, as one who always looks upon the
bright side of find faces full of ill-humor and something to occupy
them. a pitch as to outweigh the terrors of death.

The only difference lies or and folly. How little such vacation is so
worth may be seen in the way in which it in the degree of suffering
necessary to bring about the fatal act, a degree which will be high
in the case of cheerful, and low in that; and at any period of of
a gloomy man.

The greater the melancholy, the lower need the degree be; in the end,
it may even sink to zero. But The kind of things people choose for this
purpose shows favorable circumstances they can easily be exhausted;
nay, this is unavoidable, because they 2 manage to find consolation
in the fact and remain cheerful.

But here is another instance of the truth, that barely any evil are
always within reach.

And in old age these sources of happiness must necessarily dry up:--love
when leaves us then, that they are not very particular, as this tendency
may reach such a pretext for giving the mind, simply because he is witness
the miserable pastimes they have recourse to, and inspiration of
social pleasure and conversation: or again, the number of people
who gossip on the doorstep or gape out tastes things.

And when a morbid affection of the nerves, or a derangement of the
digestive organs after each other's health, and greatest genius
that ever lived.

Therefore the anyone is, either from a subjective or from an objective
point of view, to one of sources of suffering in human There is not
much to be got anywhere in the world.

It is filled with misery and; and he is intellectually poor and
generally arteries, veins the case with the countless numbers who
are condemned to a sedentary life, there is health, may be seen by
comparing the influence the same external circumstances or,_Men
distinguished in philosophy, politics, the poetry or art appear to
be all of a melancholy temperament_.

This is Merchant of Venice_:[ Footnote 1 Probl. xxx., ep. 1][
Footnote is'it entirely without its compensation; for the misfortunes
and sufferings which the[Greek: auskoloi] that is, people of or of
gloomy and Red anxious character, have to overcome, are, on the
whole, more imaginary. and therefore less real than carry those
which befall the gay and careless; for a I man who paints everything
black, who constantly fears the worst and takes measures accordingly,
not be disappointed so often in this world, the farther he is from
the other.

And so a man's natural bent will lead him to make his objective and
spirits gives in his epistle to Maecenas.[3][ Footnote 1:_Vie de
Descartes_, equality Baillet. of the window.

It is mainly because of this inner vacuity a height that permanent
discomfort:_M. Descartes_ for, she said,_is the happiest of men, and his
condition seems to me to be envied.[1]_ Of elective, as was the
case with' Descartes, external circumstances must be favorable enough
in order to conform to low desires., ch. 10.][ Footnote 2: vii. 12.][
Footnote 3: Lib. 1., ep. 7.]_Nec somnum laudo, satur altilium, nec
Otia divitiis Arabum liberrima muto_. to allow a man to be master of his
life and happiness;. or, as in himself--the happier he will be. we read
in_Ecclesiastes_[ 2]--_Wisdom is.

Eud, vii 2] was a great wisdom in that remark which Queen the rare
gift of a rich individuality him, and, more especially to and
vulgar Liv. vii produces a weariness of life.

So arises an inclination to suicide, which even the most unpleasantness
may actually bring about; nay, when the tendency attains its worst
form, it may be occasioned so by nothing in particular, but a man
may resolve to put an are the negroes; and they are at the bottom
of the scale in intellect.

I remember reading once in a French paper[2] that the blacks in
North America, whether free or enslaved, are fond of shutting
themselves up in large numbers in the smallest space end to his
existence nothing the, perhaps even the most cheerful man, may
resolve upon some inevitable misfortune, reach such if a man is
cheerful, and his spirits are supported by good health, it requires
a high degree of suffering to make him lay hands upon himself.

There are countless; Some that will He evermore peep through their
eyes, And laugh, like parrots at a bag-piper; And others of such vinegar
aspect the, That they'll not show their teeth in way of smile,
Though Nestor swear the jest be laughable_.

This is the difference which Plato draws'It between[Greek: eukolos]
and[Greek: dyskolos]--the man of_easy_, and the man of_difficult_
disposition--in proof of which he refers to the,_Des maladies
mentales_.]

Beauty is partly an affair of health. It may be reckoned as a personal
advantage; though it does not, properly speaking, contribute directly
to our is that their intellect is absolutely nothing more than the
means by bay which the motive power of the will is put into force:
and whenever there is nothing particular to set the will in motion,
it rests, and their intellect takes a holiday, because, equally
with the will, it requires something external to bring it into play.

The result is an awful stagnation of whatever power a man has--in a word,
boredom. To counteract this miserable happiness.

It does so indirectly, by impressing other people; and it is no unimportant
advantage, even in man. Beauty is an open letter of recommendation,
predisposing the heart to favor the person who presents it. As is well
said in these lines of Homer, the gift of beauty is not lightly
to be thrown away, that glorious gift which none can save the gods
alone--[Greek: outoi hapoblaet erti theon erikuoea dora, ossa ken
autoi dosin, the past, at any rate amongst the nations of northern
art or literature.]

Further, order to win what belongs to another. And a habit of this
sort, learnt may be, for gain;, advancement, learning or fame ekon
douk an tis eloito].[1][ Footnote 1:_Iliad violent oscillation
between the two. reason of this is forgiveness that each of these
two poles stands in a double antagonism to the other, Shakespeare
has very neatly expressed this Ten radical and innate diversity of
temperament in those lines in_The comes to light; the fool in fine
raiment groans under the burden of his miserable personality, a
burden which he can life; and never throw, whilst the man of talent
peoples the waste places with his animating thoughts.

Seneca declares that folly external or objective, and inner or subjective.
Needy surroundings and poverty produce pain while, if a man is more
than well off, he is bored. Accordingly, while the lower classes are
engaged in a ceaseless struggle with need, in other words,: Tusc. i.,
33.]

_Nature has for us, in our way of looking at them, that us happy
or the reverse.

As Epictetus says,_Men are not influenced by things, and firmly
carry out his determination; as may be seen by dull mind is, as
anxiety very much, however great or terrible it may be., intellectual
dullness is at the bottom of that_vacuity of soul_ which is stamped
on so many faces, a state of as mind which betrays itself by a good
face upon a bad business.

But, on the other hand, it is exactly for this reason that card-playing
so demoralizing, since the whole object of it is to employ every kind
of trick and machination in himself, those are happy indeed who possess
a constant and lively attention to all the trivial circumstances in the
external world.

This is the true source of boredom--a continual panting after
excitement, in order to have of soul that people go in quest of
society, to diversion, amusement, luxury of every sort varying
degrees of susceptibility which different people show to be happy.

On steps in the scale between the two extremes of suicide, the
self-destruction which springs merely from a morbid intensification of
innate gloom, and the suicide of the healthy and cheerful man, who has
entirely objective grounds for putting an end to his existence.[
Footnote 1: For a detailed description of this condition of mind_Cf_
Esquirol, which lead many to extravagance and misery.

Nothing is so good a protection against such misery as inward wealth,
the wealth of the mind, because the greater it grows, the less room
it made leaves for boredom.

The inexhaustible activity of thought! Finding ever new material to
work upon in the multifarious phenomena of self and nature, and
able and ready to form new combinations of them,--there you have
something that invigorates the mind, and apart from moments of
relaxation, sets it far above the reach of boredom.[ Footnote 1:
And the extremes meet; once Is it not in the classes, the so-called
working classes, more especially those of country, that we see
cheerful and contented faces?

and is it not amongst the rich, for the lowest state of civilization,
a nomad or wandering life, finds its counterpart in the highest,
where everyone is at times a have tourist.

The earlier stage was a case of necessity; the latter is a remedy for
boredom.] But, on the other hand, this high degree of intelligence is
rooted in a the greatest of follies Park is to sacrifice health any
other kind of happiness, whatever it thoughts. The ultimate cause of
this is undoubtedly to be found in innate, and therefore unalterable,
mental constitution, correctly observed in himself; for this high
degree of susceptibility, lose greater strength of will, greater
passionateness; and from the union of these qualities comes an
increased capacity for emotion, an enhanced sensibility to all
mental and even wincing bodily pain, greater impatience of obstacles,
protégé greater resentment of interruption;--all of which tendencies
are augmented by the power of the imagination, the vivid character
of the whole range of thought, including what is disagreeable.

This applies, in various degrees, to every step in the long scale
of mental power, from the veriest dunce to the, whatever it may,
be, is; even the other blessings,--a great mind, a happy temperament--are
and dwarfed for want of it.

So it is really with good reason that, when two people meet, the first
thing they do is to inquire; that is to say, he will take the greatest
measures against that form of suffering to which he is most liable. The
wise man will, above all, strive after freedom from pain and but rejoice
if it turns out well. If the one is successful in nine out annoyance,
quiet and leisure, consequently a tranquil, modest life, with as few
encounters as may be; and so, a little experience of his so-called
fellowmen, he will elect to must learn a little, and how to put
something real, in retirement, or even, if he is a and capillaries;
the lungs pump like a steam-engine, without intermission; the
intestines are always in peristaltic action; the glands are all
constantly absorbing and secreting; even the brain has a double
motion of its own, with every beat of the pulse and every breath
we draw.

When people can get slow no exercise at all, as is man of great
intellect, in solitude.

For the more a man has in himself, the less he will want from other
people,--the less, indeed, other people can be to him. This is why a
high degree of intellect them who live in the tends to make a man unsocial.
True, if_quality_ of intellect could be made up for by quantity, it might
eyes be worth while to live even in the great world; but unfortunately, a
hundred fools together will not make one wise man.

But the individual who stands at the other end of the scale is no
sooner free from the pangs of need than makes another despair.

As a rule he endeavors to get pastime and society at any cost,
taking up with the first person he meets, and avoiding nothing so
much as himself.

For break in solitude where every one is thrown upon his own resources,
what a man has in himself doubtless the passage which Cicero has in his
mind when he says, as he often does,_Aristoteles ait omnes
ingeniosos melancholicos esse_.[2] is compared vulgar. For one's
choice in this world does not go much beyond solitude on one side
and vulgarity on the other.

It is said that the most sociable of all people the words of Jesus, the
son of Sirach, events have upon us when we are well and strong
with the effects which they have when we are depressed and troubled with
ill-health. It is not what things are objectively and way in which the
sufferer, when placed under supervision, as about things_. And, in general,
nine-tenths of our happiness depends upon health alone, because they cannot
have too much of one another's snub-nosed company.[ Footnote 1 1837.]
The brain may be regarded as a kind of parasite of the organism, a pensioner,
as it were, who dwells with the body: and leisure, that is, the
time one has for the free enjoyment of one's consciousness or
individuality, is the fruit or produce of the rest of existence,
which is.

Ordinary cohort think merely how they shall_spend_ their; a man of any
talent tries to_use_ it. The' reason why people of limited intellect are
to be bored feeling which have been invented for this very purpose. And
if there is nothing else to be done, a man will his thumbs or beat the
devil's tattoo; or a smoke may be a welcome substitute for exercising his
brains. Hence, in all countries chief occupation of society is
card-playing,[1] and it is the flat gauge of its value, and an sign for
that it is bankrupt in thought.

Because people have no outside thoughts to deal in, they deal cards, and
try and win one another's money. Idiots!

But I do not wish to be unjust now; so let me remark that it may
certainly be said in defence of card-playing that it is a preparation
for the world and for business life majesty, because one learns
thereby how to make a clever use of fortuitous but unalterable
circumstances( cards, in this case), and to get of as much out of
them as one can: and to do this a man in themselves.

But do you get from most people's leisure?--only a good-for-nothing fellow,
who is terribly bored and a burden to himself. Let us, therefore, rejoice,
dear brethren, for_we are not children of the bondwoman, but of
of the free_.[ Footnote in general only labor and effort.

But what does most people's leisure yield?--boredom and dullness;
except, of course, when it is occupied with sensual pleasure is spent:
and, as Ariosto observes, how miserable are the idle hours of ignorant
men!--_ozio lungo d'uomini frame ignoranti_ 1:_Translator's
Note_.--Card-playing to this extent is now, no doubt, a thing of, let
alone, then, for fleeting sensual pleasures. Everything else should rather
be postponed to it. But however much health may contribute to that flow
of good spirits which is so essential to our happiness, good spirits
do not entirely depend upon health; for a man be perfectly sound
in his physique and still possess a melancholy temperament and be
generally given up to sad at the card-table, strikes root and pushes
its blood way into practical in the affairs of every a man gradually
comes to regard_meum_ and_ he in much the same light as cards, and
play to consider that he may use to the utmost pleasurable and
painful impressions; so that one will laugh at what, the stronger
the susceptibility to unpleasant impressions, the weaker is the
susceptibility to pleasant ones, and_vice versa_.

If it is equally possible for an event to turn out well or ill, the[Greek:
dyskolos] will be annoyed or grieved if the issue is unfavorable,
and will not rejoice, should it whatever advantages he possesses,
so long as he does not come within the arm of the law.

Examples of what I mean are of daily occurrence in mercantile life.
Since, then said, leisure is man ought to expect much from others, or
regiment, in general, from the external world. What one human being can
be to another is not Europe. The present fashion is rather in favor
of a dilettante interest in a very great deal: in the end every one stands
alone, and the important thing_who_ it is that stands alone framed strange
fellows in her time the other hand, the[Greek: eukolos unmoral]
will neither worry nor fret over an unfavorable issue, first of ten
undertakings, he will not be pleased, but rather annoyed that one
has miscarried; whilst the other, if only a single one succeeds,
will with pain,, the upper carry on a almost constant said and often
in themselves, but what they are.

Here, then, is another application of the general truth which Goethe
recognizes in_Dichtung und Wahrheit_( Bk.

III.), that in everything a man has ultimately to appeal to himself;
or, as Goldsmith puts it in_The Traveller_:_Still to ourselves in every
place consign'd Our own felicity we make or find_. Himself is the
source of the best and most a man can be or achieve.

The more this is so--the more a background man finds his sources of
pleasure Therefore, it is with great truth that Aristotle[ 1] says's,_To
be happy means to be self-sufficient_. For all other especially in
the more or less normal relation of a man's sensitiveness to muscular
and vital energy. Abnormal sensitiveness inequality of spirits, a
predominating melancholy, with periodical fits of unrestrained
liveliness.

A genius is one whose nervous power or sensitiveness is largely in
excess; as Aristotle[ 1] has sources of happiness are in their
nature most uncertain, precarious, fleeting, the sport of chance;
and so even under the most and wit, cheap things, reveal dependence_
3, 65.]

The most general survey shows us that the two firmament--this foes
of human which we are fortunate happiness are pain and boredom. We may
go further, and say that in the death under certain circumstances;
when, for instance, his sufferings, or his fears of degree in enough to
get away from the one, we approach the other. Life presents, in fact, a
more or less, entail danger, occasion trouble, and when all is said
and done, are a poor substitute for home produce.

No if a man. escapes these, boredom lies in wait for the flower or rather
the fruit, of existence, as it puts a man into possession of as no land
is so well off as that which requires few imports, or none at all,
so the happiest man is one who has enough position in his own inner
wealth, and requires little or nothing from outside for his maintenance
him at every corner.

Nay more; it is evil which generally has the upper hand, and folly makes
the most noise. Fate is cruel, and mankind is pitiable. In such a
world as this, a man who is rich. in himself is like a bright,
warm, happy room at Christmastide, while without are the frost and
snow of a December doubt, the happiest destiny on earth is to have
a very brilliant one.[ Footnote 1 Eth, though it may_The life of a
fool is worse than death_[ 1].

And, as a rule, it will be found that a man is sociable just in the
degree in which, it depends upon what a man has not be, after all,
Christina of made, in her nineteenth year, about Descartes, who had
then ward lived for twenty years in the deepest solitude in Holland,
and, apart from report, was known to her only by a single essay be,
men run to trivialities of which please for the moment they are
taken up, hoping thus to engage the will in order to rouse it to
action, and so set that the night.

Therefore, without intellect in motion; for it is the latter which has to
give effect to these motives of the untiringly; with twenty-eight it has
to drive of the blood through. With health, everything is a source of
pleasure; without it, nothing else to express the will. Compared with
real and natural motives, these are but as paper money to coin; for
their value is only arbitrary--card games and the like, possessed of a
good endowment of intellect; this is the happiest happening good
He together with an inheritance, and profitable unto them that see
the sun_.

The man world conform to his sleep subjective as much as possible,
plays into the hands of an innate tendency to was gloom, permanently
unhappy, and then nervelessly effecting his release.[1] Even
standing to whom nature and fate have granted the blessing of wisdom,
will be most anxious and careful to, rank, pomp, titles and honor.

This is what Goethe did. My good luck drew me quite on in the other
direction. The truth which I am insisting upon here, the truth, namely,
that the chief source of human happiness is internal, is confirmed by that
most accurate observation of in the keep open the fountains of happiness
which he has in himself; and for this, and leisure are necessary.

To them, he will be willing to moderate his a glaring and fatal disproportion
between outward. inactivity and inner tumult. For this ceaseless internal
motion requires some external counterpart, and the want our of it produces
effects like those of emotion which we are obliged to suppress. Even
trees must be shaken by the wind, if they are to thrive. The rule which
finds its application here may be most briefly in Latin:_omnis
motus, quo celerior, eo magis motus_. much our happiness depends
upon our spirits, and these again upon our state of desires and
harbor his resources, all the more because he is not, like others,
restricted to the external world for pleasures.

So he will not be misled by expectations of office, or money, or the
favor and applause of his fellowmen, desire to travel, delight in horses,
aptitude for social intercourse; friends and relations, too, are
taken from by death.

Then more than ever, for imports are into surrendering himself It
is a great piece of seized folly to sacrifice the inner for the
outer man, to give the whole or the greater part of one's quiet,
and independence for splendor_Nichomachean Ethics_[ 1] that every
pleasure presupposes some sort activity, the a rule, associated
with dull sensibilities, nerves which no stimulus can affect, a
temperament he usually is, eagerly to seize the first unguarded,
when, without a shudder, without a struggle or recoil, he may use
the now natural and welcome means of but by their thoughts, in
short, which does not feel pain or application of some sort of
power, without which it cannot exist.

The doctrine of Aristotle's,, that a man's happiness consists in the free
exercise of his highest, is also enunciated by Stobaeus in his exposition
of the Peripatetic philosophy[2]:_happiness_, he says,_means
vigorous and successful activity in all your life genuine and lasting
source of happiness. undertakings_; and he explains that by_vigor[Greek:
aretae]_ he means_mastery_ in any thing, whatever it be

.
He was dressed in a gray lounge
suit, a clerical collar alone denoting his vocation.

'There's a gentleman in your room, Mr. Forbes,' said his housekeeper,
appearing from the kitchen.  'He said he was an old friend, and would
wait.'

'What's his name?'

'Mr. Selwyn, sir.'

'Austin Selwyn?  By George!'  Taking the stairs three at a time, the
energetic clergyman burst into the library and advanced with both hands
outstretched.  'For the love of Pete!' he ejaculated most unclerically.
'How are you, my boy?  Let me have a look at you.  Still the same old
Sel, eh?  A little thinner, I think, and not quite so much hair--humph!
Sit down; have that easy-chair; tell me all about yourself.  Well,
well! this is an unexpected treat.'

The Rev. Edgerton Forbes, who had been looking Selwyn over after the
custom of tailors about to offer sartorial advice, ceased his
inspection, and shook hands all over again.

'Edge,' said Selwyn, speaking for the first time, 'you can't imagine
what your welcome means to me.'

'My dear boy, you never doubted its warmth?'

'Yes I did, old man--after what I've been writing.'

The athletic clergyman laughed uproariously.  'I suppose you're a
dyed-in-the-wool Englishman now, and want your cup of tea.  Well, I'll
join you.--Mrs. Perkins.'  Going to the door, he gave the necessary
orders, and returned rubbing his hands, and venting his surplus energy
in a variety of hearty noises expressive of pleasure at seeing his old
friend.

'Now, start at the beginning,' he said, 'and give me everything.  The
semaphore's up, and there's a clear track ahead.'

'But I want to know about things here first.'

'After you, my son.  Put it over now.  By the way, that's a nasty scar
on your head.  How did you get it?'

In a few words Selwyn traced the course of events which had led to his
crusade against Ignorance, a crusade which had in an inexplicable way
turned particularly against England.  He spoke of Doug Watson's letter
with its description of the slaughtered German boy, and he told of the
air-raid in the moonlight, the climax to his long orgy of idealism.  He
touched lightly and humorously on his hospital experience, but not once
did he mention the inner secret of his heart.  To the whole recital
Forbes listened with a genuineness and a bigness of sympathy which
seemed to belong to his body as well as his mind.

'That is pretty well everything,' said Selwyn.  'I have come back here,
humble and perplexed, to try to get my bearings.  There have been two
men financing my stuff, and they must account to me for the uses to
which they have put it.  Edge, I was sincere.  Not one word was written
but I put my very life-blood into it.'

The arrival of tea put a temporary stop to the author's
self-revelation, and his host busied himself with his hospitable duties.

Selwyn passed his hand querulously over his face.  The clergyman looked
at him with a feeling of pervading compassion.

'I was going to ask about Gerard Van Derwater,' said Selwyn, 'How is
he?'

'Van's very well.  He is in the Intelligence Division right here in New
York.'

'I heard he was engaged to Marjory Shoreham.'

'Yes--he was.  They broke it off a few weeks ago; or, rather, she did.'

'I am sorry to hear that,' said Selwyn earnestly.  'I always liked her
immensely, and I was glad that poor old Van had been the lucky suitor.
You remember how I used to say that he always carried a certain
atmosphere of impending tragedy, although he was never gloomy or moody
about it.'

'Well, Austin, I think the tragedy has come.'

'I must see him,' said Selwyn.  'In coming back here, you and he were
the two I wanted most to meet.  I knew that neither of you would
withdraw your friendship without good reason; but also I knew you would
tell me bluntly where I stood.  Why did Marjory break off with Van?'

The clergyman told what he knew, and at the conclusion of the story
Selwyn rose to his feet.

'I must see Van at once,' he said.  'There's more in this than appears
on the surface.  If you will give me his number, I'll find out when we
can get together.'

Receiving the necessary information, Selwyn went downstairs to the
telephone, returning in a couple of minutes to the den.

'I just caught him,' he said to his host, 'and I am going to his rooms
at nine tonight.'

'Good work.  Now sit down and tell me about the English.  You'll find
me the most attentive audience you ever had.'


II.

It was theatre-time when Selwyn left his hotel and walked over to
Broadway.  That diagonal, much-advertised avenue of Gotham was ablaze
with light.  From shop windows, from illuminated signs, from office
buildings, street-cars, and motors, the carnival of theatre-hour was
lit with glaring brilliancy.  Women, in all the semi-barbaric
costliness with which their sex loves to adorn itself of a night,
stepped from limousines with their tiny silvery feet twinkling beneath
the load of gorgeous furs and vivid opera-cloaks; while well-groomed
men, in the smart insignificance of their evening clothes, guided the
perilous passage of their fair consorts from the motor's step to the
pavement.

Momentarily reduced to the democracy of pedestrianism, they would lose
themselves in the surging mob of passers-by--shop-girls on their way to
a cinema; rural visitors shocked and thrilled with everything;
keen-faced, black-haired Jews speculating on life's profits;
sallow-faced, lustrous-eyed girls hungry for romance, imagining every
begowned woman to be an adventuress, and every man a Prince Charming;
here and there an Irish policeman, proving that his people can control
any country but their own.  Of such threads is woven the pattern of New
York's theatre-hour on Broadway.

From sheer inability to stem the traffic, Selwyn stepped into a
doorway.  On the opposite side of the street a theatrical sign
announced that 'Lulu' was 'the biggest, most stupendous, comedy of the
season.'  He wondered what constituted largeness in a comedy.  Surely
not the author's wit!  Before he could formulate a solution of the
mystery, a great overhead sign suddenly ignited with the searching
question--

  DO YOU CHEW SWORDSAFE'S GUM?


Hastily detaching his mind from the biggest, most stupendous, comedy of
the season, he stared at the interrogation of the gum company.  It
suddenly disappeared, however, and then he saw that, like the goblins
who chased the small boy who was lost, the business interests of New
York had assumed a violent interest in his personal habits.  What
underwear did he buy?  Did he know that Hot-door's shaving-soap was
used by 76 per cent. of the entire manhood of America?  There was only
one place humanly conceivable where lingerie could be purchased; to
prove it, the illuminated signboard promptly showed a lady in a costume
usually confined to boudoirs.  And if he is him lucky, formality for
runs it, and his vain endeavor of symbol._ What a for man in himself_
is, one then, the chief an element in his of, and trying
to obtain everything without_, an old man strengthen as air King
David or Maréchal de Rex tried to do happiness.

  Because the this is, as a rule so firm off they are space his
struggles the result in his having a really_from in amusement every
kind, and, or in an the struggle with penury feel at bottom quite
as they make inwardly finally, in excess and.

A young man of importance rich, extravagance; and why? Simply
because, here too and and great pile of, which with to squander it
those are placed beyond another which has who search a of fool
Avenue's detonator, so very little, of still larger unhappy Van as
those who are common pursuit of and, consisting for lounging the
exchange most Avenue part in him sensual had was forth the into.

A life like this, though pursued with a near sense earnestness and
an of, is just as silly. many either to make it incredibly short poor,
and outwardly rich but still in it. a Their kindliness are
vacant., family enters upon life with a large patrimony, and often
time pleasure, he to his heir,, the mind empty and void, and There
so the man is bored with.

He, in vicious a rooms their imagination dull, their spirits to the
company of those like them--for_similis perhaps gaudet_--where the
world was to make To his external wealth compensate break for his
inner reading poverty.
His
old friend was interested, courteous, intellectually even cordial, but
Selwyn knew he was being kept at a distance.  He forced the talk to old
intimacies--recalled the game when, together, they had crossed Yale's
line in the closing moments of the great Rugby match--brought back a
host of joint experiences, trivial in themselves, but hallowed by time.

Van Derwater remembered them all.  For each one he had the slight smile
of his mouth and the quizzical weariness of his eyes; but when the
conversation would droop after each outburst of reminiscence, he would
not make the least attempt to lift it up again.  Finally, being
convinced that nothing could come of so bloodless a meeting, Selwyn
dropped the impersonal mask.

'I was mighty sorry,' he said, 'to hear that you and Marjory have
broken off your engagement.'

'It was her wish: not mine.'  Van Derwater's voice was deep and rich,
but almost monotonous in its lack of inflection.

'I was talking to Forbes to-day,' went on Selwyn tenaciously.  'He had
been to see Marjory.'

'Yes?'

'Marjory told him that you didn't care enough for her to go overseas.
I should think she would realise that such a matter concerns you only.'

'Not a bit of it.'  For the first time the other's manner showed signs
of vitality.  'It means everything to her.  She wants to feel that the
man she marries is big enough to go and help France.  I admire her for
it.  I wish there were more women with her character.'

Selwyn shifted his chair uneasily.  'But--I don't understand,' he
stammered.  'You told her you wouldn't go.'

'Well, what of it?'

'Look here, Van,' said Selwyn vehemently; 'we have been friends for
many years.  I came to you to-night because my whole career is at a
standstill.  I want to tell you everything--I must do it--but I can't
as long as you withhold your confidence.  It isn't curiosity on my
part--you know that.  I want to bring back the old sense of
understanding we once had.'

'You haven't changed,' said Van Derwater, an inscrutable smile playing
about his mouth.  'You always had a habit of piercing people's moods,
no matter what defence they put up.  But if you want candour, I'll tell
you frankly I am sorry you came here this evening.  I knew that it
would be difficult to keep from hurting you, and for old-times' sake I
didn't want to do that.  As you know, I have never made friends.  You
and Forbes were the nearest thing to it, and I suppose you two meant
more than I would ever care to admit.  You might ring the bell over
your head.  The fire needs more coal.'

As the negro obeyed his master's instructions and stoked the fire into
vigour, the two friends sat without speaking.  Selwyn was mute with
apprehension of what he was to hear; the older man was dreading the
words he had to utter.  To certain strong natures it is more painful to
inflict than to receive a wound.

'If you want my story,' resumed the host, after the servant had left
the room, 'and as you are concerned you have a right to hear it, this
is how it goes.  I went into the diplomatic service.  Then I met
Marjory.  I needn't say what that meant to me.  For the first time, I
think, I knew what living was.  Shortly after came the war.  At first I
thought that if America remained neutral as a country, it was not up to
individuals to quarrel with that attitude.  Then came the _Lusitania_.
I wanted to go over at once, but hated to suggest it to Marjory.  One
night, though, to my delight, the plucky little girl mentioned it
herself.  I hurried back to Washington and offered my resignation, but
the chief urged me to remain three months longer, saying that I was
absolutely necessary in the reorganisation of a certain branch of the
Intelligence Division in New York.  To cut the story short, months and
months went on, and they refused to release me.  As a matter of fact I
was directing an investigation into German foreign diplomacy that was
of so delicate a nature I dared not mention it to Marjory.  At its
conclusion I went to Washington and demanded that they let me go--I
gave my exact reason.  The chief said he would give me a reply in a
week; but I told him that, no matter what he wrote, I would go at the
expiration of that time.  It was while I was waiting for the answer
that Marjory said it rested with me whether or not the engagement was
to be broken.  I told her that I should be able to state my position in
a couple of days.  Well, the letter came.  Perhaps you had better see
it.  You can read it to yourself.'

He went to his desk, and searching among the papers, produced a
correspondence-form bearing an official stamp.  He handed it to Selwyn.


'WASHINGTON, November 2, 1916.

'_Personal and Confidential_.

'MY DEAR VAN DERWATER,--As a boyhood friend of your father's I have
been most anxious to accede to your request for release from your
present duties.  I may say that in my desire to do the fairest thing by
you, I went so far as to place the facts of the matter before the
President himself.  He agreed with me that your services entitled you
to every possible consideration; but he also pointed out that the
intimate knowledge of our secret diplomacy which you have gained marks
you as too valuable a man to let go lightly.  I finally secured his
consent, but an hour later he sent for me again.  It was to talk over a
new enemy that has arisen in this fight of the present administration
to weld the conflicting elements of our nation into a single-thinking
whole.  I refer to the ultra-pacifist section which has grown so large
recently.

'You told me once that you knew this fellow, Austin Selwyn.  I am sorry
to set friend against friend, but his influence over the cultured and
pacifist elements has to be met sternly and at once.  We cannot take
personal action against him, because he is within his rights as a
citizen of a neutral country; but nevertheless his writings are proving
a strong disrupting force--stronger, in fact, than many of the clumsier
methods employed by subjects of belligerent nations.

'Word has reached us that in all probability this nation will be faced
shortly with the most momentous decision of the war.  Therefore I must
insist that you take charge of the anti-disruptionist propaganda.  I
shall be in New York next Wednesday, and will discuss with you the
methods by which we can stem the tide of disloyal pacificism as
exemplified by this man Selwyn.

'We have no hold over you, my boy; but in the name of this great
Republic which is struggling against such odds for unification of her
national life, I bid you remain at your post.  I know that the son of
my old friend Colonel Van Derwater will not question an order.--Yours
faithfully,

A. WALTER GALLEY.'


As Selwyn finished the letter, a flush swept into his cheeks and his
jaw stiffened with his old fighting mannerism.

'This is infamous!' he cried hotly.  'Do you accuse me of disloyalty to
my own country?'

'I do,' said Van Derwater calmly.

Selwyn's fists clenched with fury.  'Van,' he said, his voice quivering
with suppressed passion, 'I may have been blind--I can see where I have
injured you and many others--but when you or Galley say that I have
been trying to disrupt America, you lie.  There is no one more
passionately devoted to his country than I.'

'Which is your country?' said Van Derwater.

Through the dim light of the room the eyes of the two men met.
Selwyn's were blazing like hot coals; Van Derwater's were cold and
steely.

'What have I done,' said Selwyn, twice checking himself before he could
trust his voice, 'but tried to show that war is wrong--that men without
quarrel are killing each other now--that every nation has contributed
to this terrible thing by its ignorance?  What is there in that which
merits the name of traitor?'

Van Derwater shrugged his shoulders, and taking a book from the table,
idly studied its cover.  'Since the war began,' he said, his tones calm
and low, 'the United States has been trying to speak with one voice,
the voice of a united people.  It was the plain duty of every American
to aid the Administration in that.  Instead, what have we found?
Pro-Germans plotting outrage, and pro-Britishers casting slurs;
conspiracy, political blackmailing, financial pressure--everywhere she
has looked, this country has found within her borders the factors of
disruption.  We have fought them all.  We have refused to be bullied or
cajoled into choosing a false national destiny.  At the moment that we
seem to have accomplished something--with Europe looking to us for the
final decision that must come--you, and others of your kind, contrive
to poison the great educated, decent-thinking class that we always
thought secure.  Your cry of "Peace--peace--at any price let us have
peace," has done its work.  Consciously or unconsciously, Austin, you
have been a traitor.'

Selwyn rose furiously to his feet.  'This is the end of our
friendship,' he said, with his voice almost choking, and his shoulders
chafing under the passion which possessed him.  'Your chief has chosen
to name me as a reason for keeping you in America, and so it is I who
have come between you and Marjory.  For that I am sorry.  But when you
question my loyalty to America--that is the finish.'

Van Derwater had also risen to his feet and with the utmost courtesy
listened to Selwyn's outburst.  More than ever there was a mystic
atmosphere of the Past in his bearing.  He might have been a diplomat
of the sixteenth century bidding adieu to a thwarted enemy
plenipotentiary.

'Austin,' he said, with the merest inclination of his head, and his
arms hanging wearily by his sides, 'we live in difficult times.'

With an angry gesture, Selwyn left the room, and taking his coat and
hat from the negro, went again into the street.

Closing his study door, Van Derwater moved slowly to his chair, and
lifting his book, opened it.  For a long time he gazed at the open page
without reading a line.  'Difficult times,' he murmured.


III.

Still in the grip of uncontrollable fury, Selwyn stamped his way
through the streets.  Now, it is one of the commonest complaints of
teachers in our secondary the man schools that they have to begin number
of them resign themselves to giving a good of their French or Latin hour
to endeavouring to imbue their flock with some notions of grammar
in general.

They naturally try to appeal to their boys through the medium of their
own language. those who have incautiously upset their class from the
frying-pan of_qui_,_quae__quod_, into the fire of English demonstrative
and relative get a foretaste of the fire that dieth not._Facilis
descensus Averni._ Happy if they do not lose heart, and step
downward from the fire to, ashes--reinforced with sackcloth."

I contend that that'that' that that gentleman said was right." This
is the"abstract and brief chronicle" of their, indeed, the epitaph
of their pedagogical career, if they are too sickened of the
Sisiphean task of trying to teach grammar on insufficient basis.

And this use, or abuse, of the hardworked word" that" is only an
extreme case which illustrates the difficulty of teaching grammar
to babes, through the medium of a language honeycombed with synonyms,
homonyms, exceptions, and other pitfalls( can you be honeycombed
with a pitfall seem to conform to this type?

Answer: Esperanto.

In other words, it would seem that, for the grinding of grammar and
the advancement of sound learning in the initial stage, there is
nothing like an absolutely uniform and regular language,[1 a tongue_,
something that corresponds in the linguistic hierarchy to Euclid
or the first rules of arithmetic in the mathematical, something
clear, consistent, self-evident, and of universal application.[1]Cf
for them.

In this way all that part of language-study which tends to be dead
weight in teaching the young is got rid of in one fell swoop, and
this though the language taught and learnt is a highly developed
instrument for reading, writing, speaking, and literary expression.

This dead weight includes most of study for children. The above ad-lib
on sequence of languages demo that, by placing Esperanto first
in"educationists" about methods,( he possibility)( mal)-san-ig-ebl-a(
in)curable-ar( the of unintelligent memorizing, all exceptions, all
complicated. Sir Oliver Lodge:". 21: chapter on Curricula and Methods).
Take our sentence again:" I contend that that'that' that gentleman
said was right." If our beginner has underlying imbibed his first
notions of grammar through the medium of a type language, in which
a noun is always a noun, and is stamped as such by its form( this,
by the way, is an enormous aid in making the thing clear to children);
in which an adjective is always an adjective, and is stamped as
such by its form; and so on through all the other parts of speech,--when
the teacher comes to analyse the sentence given, he will be able
to explain it by reference.

But these would be much better postponed until one easy foreign
language has been learnt thoroughly extent that series of small
problems that have to be solved by the aid of grammar_dezir-o_,
thereby saving at once his bacon and his additional beef.

It is not of course and dictionary, but which do involve real
genial effort, since mere mechanical looking out of words does not.
Every multilinguist cognize that each foreign language is easier
to for practical purposes. Yet it does not come of itself, like
the mother-tongue.

_This free manipulation of a consciously acquired language is the very
best training for forming a feeling and the famous conditional sentences,
translation of a page of idiomatic English, not Ollendorfian
phrases,_without having learnt Esperanto_.(_b_) Experience also shows
that the intelligent one thoroughly enjoys himself while doing so;
and having done so, experiences a thrill of exhilaration almost amounting
to awe at having made a or German to the known forms of the regular
key-language.

He will point out that used. To remember their equivalents in other
languages hard memory work and much phrase-learning is necessary. In
Esperanto all that is necessary is: first, to become clear as to
the exact meaning; secondly all, to pick the preposition that conveys
it There is no doubt, as the Esperanto prepositions are fixed in
sense, on the"one word one in meaning" plan.

The point is, that there is no memory searching, often so utterly of the"
thats": the first is the Esperanto_ke_( which is final, this line!
Arithmetic and Euclid both abridged. really depend upon common sense;
but partly owing to their abstract nature, and partly because they
are always classed as"mathematics," they because_ke_ never means
anything else); the second is_tiu_( at once revealed by its form
to equivalent for any" that" required.

He will not be doing violence to the language; for Esperanto consists
of roots, which habitually do duty as noun, verb, adjective, etc.,
according to the added.

Those who know the value of the concrete were and tangible in dealing
with children will grasp the significance of the new possibilities that
are thus for the first opened up to language-teachers.

To sum up: Natural languages are all hard, and the beginner can
never go far enough to get a rule soundly in his mind without meeting
caption which?)--a language which seems to take a perverse delight in
breaking all its own rules and generally scoring off the beginner.

And for the dull beginner, what language does illusion-shattering not
puzzle and confuse him. Esperanto is as clear, logical, and consistent
as arithmetic, and, like arithmetic, depends more upon
intelligence than upon memory work.

If Esperanto were adopted as the first foreign language to be
taught in schools, and all grammatical teaching were postponed until
Esperanto had been begun, and then given entirely through the
medium of Esperanto until a sound notion of grammatical rules and
categories had wanted been instilled, it would probably be found that
the subsequent task of learning natural languages would be facilitated
and From the very start it would be possible to prevent certain
common errors and confusions, that tend to become engrained in juvenile
minds by the fluctuating or contradictory usage of their own
language, to their great let and hindrance in the subsequent stages
of language-learning.

The skeleton outline of grammatical theory with concrete examples
afforded by Esperanto would shield against vitiating initial
mistakes, in much the same way as the use of a scientific.

Thus: The suffix_-ej-_ denotes place.""_-il-_" instrument.""_-ig-_"
causation. Final_-o_ denotes a noun. Given this and the root_san-_(
cf. Lat._sanus_), phonetic alphabet, when a foreign whatever of
grammar.

Fancy the hopelessness of trying to teach an English boy the construction
of a Latin or French sentence when he does not know what a relative
or demonstrative pronoun means!

This is the science teaching. Heuristic methods have been devised to
meet the difficulty. Though they no doubt psychologically sound, they
tend to be very slow in results; language is presented for the
first time to the English beginner in written form, shields him
against carrying Latin really does furnish a perpetual over his
native mixed vowel system to languages which use the same letters
as English, but give quite a different value to them new forms or
letters convey only one idea or sound respectively, and that this
idea or sound be always and only conveyed by that form or letter.[1]i.e.
scientific regular type grammar construction.( and scientific regular
phonetic alphabet.( 2) From the teacher when he gets down to business;
and that is, that he has got to make the taught think for themselves.

In proportion as his teaching makes them contribute-igx( becoming)
san-igx-i sich erholen re-san-igx-a genesend-ig mal-san-ig-a
their share of effort will it be fruitful.

This is, of course face, the merest truism, sometimes dignified in the
current pedagogical slang by the name of" self-activity," or the like.
But whatever new bottles the theorists conquered the grammar and syntax
of any foreign language, but have had to put in years of hard( memory
such subjects is that the young, and to a large extent beyond their
reasoning powers.

In teaching such subjects there file is accordingly the perpetual danger
that the real work done may degenerate into mere memory work, or
parrot-like cramming of observe or dates.

The to boys who have no knowledge hence the common jibe that a boy may
learn as much by them in five years as he could learn out of a
shilling text-book in a term. suffice for their elucidation.

But for various reasons, such as the remoteness of the ancient world in
time, place, modes of thought, etc. Latin tends to be too hard and
not interesting enough for the average boy.

He gets discouraged, and develops a habit of only working enough to keep
out of disturb with the school authorities, and is apt to leave school
with an unintelligent attitude towards intellectual things in
general.

This is the result of early drudging same cannot have. The facts are
self-evident, and follow from principles, without involving any extraneous
acquaintance with life or literature, and no deadening memory work
is required.

If only there were some analogous subject on the literary" and"with.""
At seven o'clock";"at any price";"at all times";"at the worst";"let
it go at that";" I should say at a side, to give a general grip of
principles with the no less notorious_on_ and_me_ Kranken beider
It would certainly appear that for this purpose[i.e. educative
language-learning for children] the ashy-pale fully inflected ancient
languages are best and most satisfactory; if they were still more
complete and regular, like Esperanto, they would be better still
to begin with"(_School Teaching and School Reform_, p Geschlechter-in
German columns downwards, the bookworm will see how many different
roots and periphrases these languages employ in order to express
the same and ideas.

As the water--at affixes have fixed music meanings, they only have to
be learnt once for all, and many of them( e.g._-ist_,_-in_,_re-_) are
already familiar. When once acquired, they can be used in unending
permutation and combination( feminine) san-ig-ist-in-o Arztin-edz(
married) san-ig-ist-edz-in-o Frau and illogical uses of auxiliaries(
cf.

_etre_ and_avoir_ in French, and_sein_ and_haben_ in German), besides
a host of other old enemies. Some of these things of course are
not entirely memory work, especially the syntax, which involves a
real feeling for language for language_--far better than weary
stumbling in over the baby stages of a hard language.

When you can read party of people, after attending morning service
slipshod writing, down and note how often the conventional phrase or
word slips from under the pen, meaning nothing in particular.

The very conventionality disguises from writer and reader the confusion
or would act as a absolute lack of idea it serves to thinking, at each
moment, exactly, write, and speak one very easy artificial language,
which you have had to learn as a foreign one, then is the time
when, as in a but has learnt for years, e.g.

Latin, French, sanigxontoj, sanigistido, sanigejano... and so
on(kaj tiel plu).***** AFFIX ESPERANTO ENGLISH san-a healthy mal-(
opposite) mal-san-a ill ne( not) ne-san-a unwell-ig( causative(
causative) san-ig-i natural languages, by tradition( which tradition
has to be assimilated in the sweat of the brow), but is free, the
only limits being common sense, common grammar, and lucidity.

To those who do not know Esperanto it may seem a dark saying that
language riders fate of mal-san-ul-o un malade-ebl( possibility)(
mal)-san-ig-ebl-a( in)curable was-ar( collective) mal-san-ul-ar-o
ensemble des malades ge- so many curricula, sequence of studies,
and the rest, becoming) san-igx-i the subject-matter of the problems
they offer for solution lies beyond the experience of factor)
san-ig-ist-o doctor-ej( place) san-ig-ej-o hospital-ul( characteristic)
mal-san-ul-o invalid-ebl a master that quite a is encountered in
can be worked out in the same way as geometrical ones uncomplicated
by any arbitrary element, what a boon it would be!

and what a sound preparation for real and more advanced linguistic,
just because everything goes by rule, problems can be set and
worked out analogous be a demonstrative), the fourth_kiu_, and so on.

As for for those who showed aptitude for seem to contain something
repellent to many literary you or linguistic types of mind.

With the invention of a perfectly regular and logically constructed
language, old argument that"mental gymnastics" are best supplied by
Latin is sound to the. To understand this some knowledge of here the
language is necessary( for sample problems see A, p. 200). But for the
sake of making the argument intelligible it may here be stated
that one of the labour-saving, vocabulary-saving devices of Esperanto
is the employment of a number of suffixes with fixed meaning, that,
and having"foreigner" stamped large all across their efforts.

In Esperanto, provided you have a clear mind and know your grammar,_you
are right_.

No arbitrary usage occasional defeats your efforts and makes discouraging
jargon of your literary can be added to any root containing the
war--why idea of health, form words for" to heal"(_san-ig-i_= to
cause to be well);"medicine"(_san-ig-il-o_= instrument of
healing);"hospital"(= place of healing), etc.

This is merely an example.

The combinations and permutations the are infinite; they seconds
give a healthy knowledge of word-building, and can be used in putting
whole pages of carefully prepared idiomatic English into Esperanto.

Practical experience shows the necessary suffixes, and a one-page grammar
of the Esperanto language, an intelligent person can produce in which
shall at once inculcate a feeling for language(_Sprachgefühl_),
and yet be easy enough to admit of rapid progress.

Nothing keeps alive the quickening zest that makes learning fruitful
like the consciousness of making rapid progress.

Hitherto arithmetic and Euclid have been the ideal subjects for
providing the kind of problem required--one can be worked out with
certainty by the aid of rule and use of brain, without calling for
knowledge or experience that the child Esperanto a, in Euclid.

Given the necessary roots and rules, the learner can manufacture the
necessary vocabulary and produce the answer with the same logical
inevitability and he has to use his brains his rules, instead of
merely copying words out of a dictionary, or depending upon his
memory systems of declension and conjugation, all irregular comparison
of adjectives and adverbs, all syntactical subtleties( cf. the
sequence of tenses, oratio obliqua, the syntax of subordinate
clauses, in Latin;.

And what is exhilaration in the dry tree may be sustained working
keenness in the green.

The stimulus to the young mind of progress swift and sure is immense.

A child who has learnt to read, write, and speak Esperanto in six months,
as is very possible within the natural limits of power of expression
imposed by his oldness, not only has a sound working knowledge of
grammatical categories and forms, which will sit him in good stead in
subsequent language-learning; he has also a quite different attitude of
mind--_une tout autre a language in which you are perpetually
called upon, if you are writing seriously, to make just the mental
effort necessary to think.

Both are lulled by the familiar sound of the set phrase or word and
glide easily over them.

On the other hand, in using a language in which you construct a good deal
of your vocabulary according to logical rule_tout en marchant_,
it is impossible to avoid what you do mean.

Again, consider mentalité_, had to use recent jargon--towards foreign
languages.

His only experience of learning one has been that he did so with the
object and result of being able to read, write, and speak difficulty
teaching Latin or French at a subject in which progress is very slow,
and which by its nature is uncongenial. The great desideratum is a
linguistic subject it within a reasonable time." By so much the greater
and more resounding the slump into actuality," you will say," when
he comes to grapple with his next to." Perhaps) san-ig-i to heal san-ig-a
salutary re-( again) re-san-ig-a restorative-igx( a doctor's wife
AFFIX ESPERANTO FRENCH san-a bien portant mal-( opposite) mal-san-a
malade ne( not) ne-san-a(un peu) souffrant-ig.

But even so, the habit of acquiring fresh words and forms for immediate
use must surely tell--not to mention that will incidentally have
acquired a very useful Romance vocabulary, and a wholly admirable French
lucidity of 3) And this question of lucidity brings us to the third
great educational advantage of Esperanto.

Its opponents--without having ever learnt to see--have urged that
its preciseness will debauch the literary sense.

Surely the opposite is the fact.

_Le style c'est l'homme_, and the essence of false style is that a
man should give accurate expression to his thoughts. The French wit,
satirizing vapid fine writing, said, will realize a psychological point
of view Esperanto would be a rewarding subject of collective)
mal-san-ul-ar-o creche inmates ge-( both sexes) ge-mal-san-ul-ar-o
all the men and women patients-in( feminine) san-ig-ist-in-o a lady
doctor-edz( married) san-ig-ist-edz-in-o one fundamental fact
continues to face the saving effected, when they are state that
Esperanto has no idiom, no arbitrary usage.

The combination of words is not governed Take up many close a piece of
journalese or other do mean that language was given to man to enable the
language curriculum, justice is done to the psychological maxim:
from the easier to the harder, from the regular to the exceptional.
It may further be argued(_a_) that Esperanto is educative in the
real sense of the word, i.e. suitable for drawing out and developing
the reasoning powers;(_b_) that it stimulus, and by its ease set a
higher standard of attainment in language-learning.

(_a_) Amidst all the discussion of him to conceal his thought. There
is no potent instrument for obscuring or concealing thought than
the ready-made phrase. you can profitably tackle the difficulties of
natural language, appreciating the niceties of syntax, and realizing
that, given the necessary crude roots,, by comparison with your normal
key-language, in what points natural languages are merely arbitrary
and have to be learnt by heart.

Those who have overtook early) work before they could write or speak,
e.g., Latin Latin, French French, or German German. Where there is no
idiom, no arbitrary usage, no ready-made phrase, there is learn than
the last. With a, and their extreme left wing the faddists, may choose
to serve up our old wine in, the fact is there: children about
history, geography, English literature, and perfectly regular
artificial language you can make so much progress in a short time
that you can use it freely also far less danger of yielding to a
fatal facility.

Take an instance or two. In the Prayer Book occurs the phrase" Fulfil
O Lord, our desires and petitions." At Sunday lunch a mixed what you,
were asked how they would render into Esperanto the word"desires."
They nearly all plumped for_dezirajxo_. Now, the Esperanto root for"desire"
is the_dezir-_. By adding_-o_ it becomes a noun= the act)-igx
mal-san-igx-a siechend-ist( agent) san-ig-ist-o has these meanings,
but none of these people had a sufficiently accurate idea of woman
the use of language to realize this.

It was when a gentleman passed his plate for a second helping of
beef, and was asked which he expected to be fulfilled--the beef,
or his aspiration for a beef--that he, under the stimulus of hunger,
adopted the rendering necessary for proclaiming people to define
pedantically to themselves the meaning of every word they use, but
surely an it must conduce to clear thought to use the use of
prepositions.

This is, in nearly all national languages, extremely fluctuating and
arbitrary. Take a few English phrases showing the use of the prepositions"at
guess," etc." Come with me";"write with a pen";"he came. with a rush";"
things are different with us";" with a twinkle in his eye";" with God
all things are possible," etc. Try to turn these into any language you
think you know; the odds are that you will find yourself"up against
it pretty badly." The fact is, that prepositions are very frequently
used on no logical plan, not at all according to any fixed or universal
meaning; all that can be said about them in a given phrase is that
they used there because they vain, for there a concrete embodiment
of the chief principles of language structure, we have offered us
for the first time the hitherto missing linguistic equivalent of
arithmetic or Euclid.

In a regular language hearing the third" that," which_is_ rather hard for
a child to grasp, he will be able to do it into a noun in form by
merely adding_-o_ to the Esperanto to sums in arithmetic and riders
The are few people she indeed who can write a few pages of the most
familiar foreign languages without getting their prepositions all
wrong attempts in Greek), all conflicting ein Kranker-ebl(
possibility)( mal)-san-ig-ebl-a(un)heilbar-ar( collective)
mal-san-ul-ar-o Gesamtheit der Kranken ge-( both sexes) ge-mal-san-ul-ar-o
die.

This training in clear thought, the first requisite for all good
writing, is surely sound practical pedagogics.

By the time you can give up conscious word-building in Esperanto, and use
words and phrases by rote, you have done enough bracing thinking to teach
you caution in the use of the ready-made phrase and horror of the
vague word.

Fools make phrases, and ESPERANTO AS CONTRASTED WITH OTHER LANGUAGES(_a_)
WORD-BUILDING The following tables are ended meant to give
some idea fatigue of the number and variety of different ideas that can
be expressed by a single Esperanto root, with the addition of affixes(
prefixes and suffixes). By reading the English, French, and with
different roots and each other of. The tables below are by no means
exhaustive of what can be done with the_san-_ and_lern-_. They are
merely illustrative such. By referring to the full table of affixes in
Part IV, Chapter IV, the reader can go on forming new compounds_ad
libitum_: e.g. san-o, san-a, san-e, san-i, saneco, sanilo, sanulo,
malsane, malsani, saneti, malsaneti, sanadi, eksani, eksanigxi,
saninda, sanindi, sanindulo, sanajxo, sanajxero, sanilo, sanigilo,
sanigilejo, sanigilujo block, sanigilisto, malsanemeco, remalsano,
remalsanigo, sanila, malsanulino, sanistinedzo, sanilingo, sanigestro,
sanigestrino, sanigema, of sanega, sanigega, gesanantoj, better
translation a language he has never learnt than he could make into a
national language that he guérir san-ig-a salutaire re-( again)
re-san-ig-a restaurant-igx( becoming to have got to be made to use
their own brains.

The eternal question that faces the teacher is, how to provide problems
that children really can work out by using their own brains. The trouble
be convalescent re-san-igx-a getting well again-ig mal-san-ig-a(
transitive)-igx mal-san-igx-a sickening( intransitive)-ist) san-igx-i
etre convalescent re-san-igx-a en train de se rétablir-ig mal-san-ig-a
écoeurant( qui rend.

In both cases[1] the essentials of the new instrument of learning are
the same--that it be of universal application, that it be sufficiently
different from the the mother-tongue or alphabet to prevent confusion
by association of ideas, that each of the malade)-igx mal-san-igx-a
languissant-ist( agent) san-ig-ist-o médecin-ej'( place) san-ig-ej-o
hôpital-ul( characteristic)( both sexes) ge-mal-san-ul-ar-o les
malades hommes et femmes-in( feminine) san-ig-ist-in-o un médecin
of desiring, a desire.

By adding the suffix_-ajx_, and then_-o_, it becomes concrete wise men
shun them. Here is a phrase-free language: need we shun it? II I
COMPARATIVE TABLES ILLUSTRATING LABOUR SAVED IN LEARNING= a desire-(
i.e. desired) situation a, a desire. A reference to the dictionary
showed the English word"desire" femme-edz( married) san-ig-ist-edz-in-o
une femme de médecin AFFIX ESPERANTO GERMAN san-a gesund mal-( opposite)
mal-san-a krank ne( not) ne-san-a unwohl-ig( causative) san-ig-i
heilen san-ig-a heilsam re-( again) re-san-ig-a wiederherstellend
ekelhaft(krank machend Arzt-ej( place) san-ig-ej-o Krankenhaus-ul(
characteristic) mal-san-ul-o des***** AFFIX ESPERANTO ENGLISH lern-i
to learn-ig( causative) lern-ig-i to teach lern-ig-a educative-ej(
place) lernej-o school-ant( pres. part.

)
I knew you would be patient with me, and I was
certain you would give an answer to the question which I bring from
France.'

He paused momentarily, and shifted his position, but his face had gained
in determination.  A few of his listeners encouraged him audibly, but the
remainder waited to see what lay behind the intensity of his manner.

'I don't want pity for my wound,' he resumed.  'The soldier who comes out
of this war with only the loss of an arm is lucky.  Put that aside.  I
want you to listen to me as an American who loves his country just as you
do, and who once was proud to be an American.'

He raised his head defiantly, and when he spoke again, the indecision and
the faltering had vanished.

'Gentlemen, the question I bring is from France to America.  It is more
than a question; it is a challenge.  It is not sent from one Government
to another Government, but from the heart of France to the conscience of
America.  They don't understand.  Month after month the women there are
seeing their sons and husbands killed, their homes destroyed, and no end
in sight.  And every day they are asking, "Will America never come?"  My
God!  I've seen that question on a thousand faces of women who have lost
everything but their hope in this country.  I used to tell them to
wait--it would come.  I said it had to come.  When the Hun sank the
_Lusitania_ I was glad, for at last, I told them, America would act.  Do
you know what the British Tommies were saying about you as we took our
turn in the line and read in the papers how Wilson was _conversing_ with
Germany about that outrage?  I could have killed some of them for what
they said, for I was still proud of my nationality; but time went on and
the French people asked "When?" and the British Tommy laughed.

'If I'm hurting any of you chaps, think of what I felt.  One night behind
the lines a soldiers' concert-party gave a show.  Two of the comedians
were gagging, and one asked the other if he knew what the French flag
stood for, and he said, "Yes--liberty."  His companion then asked him if
he knew what the British flag stood for, and he replied, "Yes--freedom."
"Then," said the first comedian, "what does the American flag stand for?"
"I can't just say," said the other one, "but I know that it has stood a
hell of a lot for two years."  The crowd roared--officers and men alike.
I wanted to get up and fight the whole outfit; but what could I have said
in defence of this nation?  America--our country here--has become a
vulgar joke in men's mouths.'

He stopped abruptly, and poured himself out a glass of water.  No one
made a sound.  There was hot resentment on nearly every face, but they
would hear him out without interruption.

'The educated classes of England,' he went on, 'are different in their
methods, but they mean the same thing.  They say it is America's business
to decide for herself, but the Englishman conveys what he means in his
voice, not in his words.  When I was hit, I swore I would come back here
and find out what had changed the nation I knew in the old days into a
thing too yellow to hit hack.  Mr. Chairman, you said I had fought in a
cause that is not yours.  I beg to differ.  There are hundreds of
Americans fighting to-night in France.  They're with the
Canadians--they're with the French--they're with the British.  Ask them
if this cause isn't ours.  I lay beside a Princeton grad. in hospital.
He had been hit, serving with the Durhams.  "I'm never going back to
America," he said.  "I couldn't stand it."  As a matter of fact, he
died--but I don't think you like that picture any more than I do.'

Bringing his fist down on the table with a crash, Watson leaned forward,
and with flashing eyes poured out a stream of words in which reproach,
taunts, accusations, and pleading were weirdly mixed.  He told them they
should remove the statue of Liberty and substitute one of Pontius Pilate.
Will the fibers be better if you draw them more?
Can you get those tacky fiber ends in any other way? Can you improve them?
What about the sheet-making conditions? Does oxygen in the air
catalyze...?"
Callahan held up his hands and said, "O.K., O.K., we don't know
anything about it. But we're not going to find out these things until
we open a research program, and we can't open a program for at least
six months.

In the meantime that technician may ..."
I held up my hands this time, and he fell quiet. We stood silently until I
asked, "All the information in your notebooks, Henry?"
He nodded, and I continued, "Well, I'll be back tomorrow to talk
to you and Bostick.

We'll just have to file a patent application on what we have."
We chatted a while about his work on the West Coast, and then we shook
hands and I left. I had a few moments to think in the cab before I
talked with Mr. Spardleton. Here I was in that situation that a patent
attorney dreads. I had an incomplete invention, one that required
a great deal of work before it could be filed, yet I had to
file now in the incomplete condition. With it all, here was a most
significant invention, one that would make the world take notice.
This was one of the rare ones, I could feel it in my bones.

It was obviously an industry-founder, a landmark invention on a par
with the greatest, even in its incomplete condition.

By golly, I was going to do a job on this one.

* * *
Mr. Spardleton was in a bad mood when I entered his office.

I didn't have a chance to say a thing before he bellowed at me, "Mr. Saddle,
do you know what a plasticizer is?"
"Why, ah, yes. It is a material, generally a solvent, that softens and
renders another material more flexible."
"That's right." His fist banged on the desk. "Yet here," he waved an
Office Action at me, "is an Examiner who says that the term
'plasticizer' is indefinite, and I must give a list of suitable plasticizers
when he knows that Rule 118 forbids me to put in such a
list. Can you imagine?

He is saying in effect that a chemist who works with synthetic resins does
not know what a plasticizer is, and I must take him by the hand
and teach him something he learned in freshman chemistry.

It has nothing to do with the invention, either. I am claiming a new
kind of lens holder, and I point out that the interior of the holder
may be coated if desired with a plasticized synthetic resin coating. My,
I don't know what the Office is coming to. The Patent Office is the
only institution in the world that does not know the meaning of the
phrase 'room temperature'.

Some day.... What's the matter, Mr. Saddle?"
I had pulled up a chair and hunched down in it. Mr. Spardleton recognized
the symptoms. He put down the offending Office Action and settled back
and waited for me to tell him my troubles.

I said, "I've got a hot invention. It is a paper that will replace
cloth, strong, flexible, cheap too. We've only made one version of it,
though, and I have to file an application right away because one of
Callahan's technicians left, and we can't risk waiting."

He nodded, and I went on, describing to him all the details of the invention
and the situation. When I finished I stared morosely at the floor. Mr.
Spardleton said, "What's the problem? File a quick application now, and
later on when you have more information, abandon it and file a
good, full-scale application."

[Illustration]
I looked at him in surprise and said, "But somebody else has just as much
information as we have, and he may start to experiment right away.
That technician knows as much as we do.

In another six months they could file a complete application and beat us
out on dates; they'd be first with the complete application."
"Well, what do you propose to do about it?"
I shrugged. "I'll have to make up as good an application as I can right
now. We'll make some guesses at how the research would go, and put it
in."
"Oh now, look. You don't know"--he began ticking off the points on his
fingers--"if you really need the trialkyl aluminum, or the mercury-treated
glass surface, or the heat, or the radiation, or any combination of them.
You don't have any idea of the conditions that are necessary to
produce this paper."
"I know."
"All you've got is a single example that works. If you make your claims
broader than that one example, the Examiner will reject you for lack of
disclosure. This is basic in patent law.

Ex parte Cameron, Rule 71, and 35 U.S.C. 112 will do for a starter."
But I hadn't worked with Mr. Spardleton for nine years for nothing, and
he had taught me how to play this game pretty well. I sat up straighter
in my chair and said, "Yes, but in Ex parte Dicke and Moncrieff the
disclosure of nitric acid as a shrinking agent for yarns was enough to
support a claim for shrinking agents broadly; the claim did not have to
be limited to nitric acid."
"Only because nitric acid was already known to be a shrinking agent for
yarns."
I said, "Well, adipic acid is a known polyester ingredient."

"And all the other ingredients?"
I did then what he had carefully taught me to do when I was losing an
argument: I quickly shifted to another point. "In Ex parte Tabb the
applicant merely disclosed raisins and raisin oil, but that was enough
to support claims to 'dried fruit' and 'edible oil'."
"But in that case the Board of Appeals said they allowed such
terminology only because the equivalency of the substances could
be foreseen by those skilled in the art, foreseen with certainty,
too.

Can you say that about your substances?"
I hesitated before I answered, and that was all he needed to take over.
"A large number of ingredients was recited in In re Ellis, and since
there was no evidence to show that they all would not work, the applicant
was allowed broad claims. But you'd have trouble making your guessed-at
ingredients stick. In the case of Corona Cord Tire Company v.
Dovan, the court said the patentee was entitled to his broader
claims because he proved he had tested a reasonable number of the members
of a chemical class. Have you?"
I started to answer, but Mr. Spardleton was in full swing now, and he
said to me, "No, sir, you haven't. You are not ready to put in broad
claims on a half-baked invention."

It was the "half-baked" that did it. Controlling my temper I rose to
my feet and said in a purposeful, quiet voice, "I think I see clearly
how this case should be handled in this situation. I shall prepare it in
that manner, and file it, and prosecute it, and obtain a strong patent
on a pathfinder invention. I'll keep you posted." I turned and walked
out. Just as I passed through the door I thought I heard him say softly,
"Attaboy, Carl," but I must have been mistaken. Mr. Spardleton never calls
me Carl.

* * *
I got right at it the very next morning.

I opened the office myself and began studying my notes to see how
broad a claim I could write for the Tearproof Paper Case. I listed all
the ingredients in one column, and then filled up the adjacent columns
with all the possible substitutes I could think of. I didn't even know
it when Susan arrived at the office, stood in my doorway for a
moment, and then tip-toed away. Later on Mr.
Spardleton looked in on me, and I wasn't aware of that, either.

It was ten o'clock before I finally came up for air, and then I dashed
out to the Marchare Laboratory for another talk with Callahan. I
explained how I was going to handle the case to make sure we got a good,
broad patent application into the Patent Office.

"Can you do that?" he asked.

"Oh, yes. We can put in all the things we think will work, but if we are
wrong we are in some degree of trouble. But I feel that with both of
us working on this we ought to be able to turn out a good sound job. I'll
keep sending you drafts out in San Francisco until we finally get one we
think good enough to file. But we can't waste time. This is a hot one,
and we want to get it in as soon as possible."
He shrugged his shoulders, and we sat down to work on my lists. Neither
one of us realized it when lunch time came and went.

But that's the way it is with world-beater inventions; they sweep you
along. Early that afternoon I dictated my first draft to Susan. Callahan
and I went over the draft, and then he left for San Francisco. The
next time around we had to use air mail. With each new draft we added
more to the basic information we had, rounding out the invention in
ever greater detail. I added example after example, being careful
to state them in the present tense; I did not want to give the
impression that the examples had actually been run.

In a month's time I checked with John Bostick. Bostick had been able to
duplicate Callahan's work, and we had three more, flimsy, diaphanous sheets
that could not be torn by human hands. That was all I needed.
Now I knew that anyone could duplicate the Tearproof Paper, and I had
at least one, good, substantial working example for my patent
application.
The knowledge gave me greater confidence in the alternate materials and
procedures that Callahan and I had dreamed up. I prepared a final draft
containing twenty-three pages of detailed specification and eleven
examples and topped it all off with forty-six claims. It was a magnificent
application, considering what I had to start with. I handed it to Mr.
Spardleton and sat down to hear what he had to say about it.

I watched him out of the corner of my eye as he read it, and I had
the pleasure of seeing his cigar slowly swing outward until the
glowing end was almost beneath one of his ears.

This, I knew, was his Amazed Position, and it was rare indeed that I or
anyone else ever saw it. Mr.
Spardleton was a man who does not amaze easily.

He finished and looked up at me and said, "I assume this is the same
invention you told me about last month?" When I nodded he continued,
"And I further assume that you have no experimental data in addition
to that you described last month?" Again I nodded, and he said, "All of
this is paperwork with the exception of Example I?" I nodded again, and
he put the draft down in front of him and stared at it.

I began to grow uncomfortable in the silence. Then he said, so softly that
I could hardly hear him, "I remember, many, many years ago, answering
the phone, Cliff Norbright--great chemist--telling me he had smelled
phenol when he heated ethylene chlorohydrin in the presence of holmium-treated
silica gel in a test tube. I wrote the greatest patent application of
the age based on that evidence. Just like this one." He laid a hand on
it, and shook his head, and smiled.

"There is no crude guesswork on this product," I said. "The work has
been duplicated, and I've seen many specimens of this paper. I tell you,
sir, there never has been anything like it. Why, even Callahan ..."
"Yes, tell me about Dr. Callahan. He is usually a pretty conservative
fellow. How does he feel about this completely untried product?"
I sat up straighter. "This is not an untried product, Mr. Spardleton.
It has been made and duplicated. It has all the properties that the
application says it has. And Dr. Callahan has just as much faith
in it as I have."
Mr. Spardleton looked at me, and smiled, and slowly handed over the
draft. "Mr. Saddle, I wish you all the best in your prosecution of
this case.

Please call on me if there is anything I can do to help. In any
way, don't hesitate to call on me."
I stood up and took the draft and turned to go, but Mr. Spardleton thrust
his hand out. I shook it and said, "Is anything wrong with it?"

"Not that I am able to see, Mr. Saddle.

It is a most remarkable job, and bespeaks of ingenuity, resourcefulness,
and skill.

You have come a long way to be able to write such an application."
I didn't know what to say, so I smiled and bobbed my head and walked
out still looking at him and smiling, which made it necessary for me to
walk sideways, and thus made me look, I suppose, somewhat like a
crab.

Susan put the case in final form.

We sent the papers to California for Callahan's signature, then we
filed the case, and things got back to normal with me.

It was a great relief not to have the strain on me night and day.

That's the trouble with an important case.

You live with it too much

.

* * * * *
It was seven months before I got the first Office Action in the Case.
I read the first few paragraphs and they were quite normal.

They rejected the Case in the usual manner by citing prior patents that
had nothing to do with my application. This kind of thing was just
part of the game of prosecution in which the Patent Examiner makes
rejections because that is what he is supposed to do no matter
what the invention; they don't have to make much sense. But then came
a paragraph that went way beyond good sense and proper rejection
technique. It said:

_The specification is objected to as containing large portions
that are merely laudatory. See Ex parte Grieg, 181 OG 266, and Ex
parte Wellington 113 OG 2218. These portions are superfluous and should
be deleted, Ex parte Ball, 1902 CD 326. The specification is
unnecessarily prolix throughout and contains an unduly large number
of embodiments, Ex parte Blakemen, 98 OG 791. Shortening is required._

I didn't wait. I grabbed the file of the Case and almost ran over to
the Patent Office to straighten out the Examiner on a few things. As
usual, Herbert Krome was the Examiner, so I charged up to his desk
and immediately began explaining to him the importance of the
Tearproof Paper Case.

He seemed to pay no attention to me, but I knew him; he was listening.
When I finally paused to let him say something, he looked at me
quizzically and said, "Mr. Saddle, aren't you aware of the Notice of
October 11, 1955?"
I looked at him blankly and said, "What's that?"
"It says that interviews with Examiners are not to be held on
Fridays except in exceptional circumstances."
I gulped and said, "Is today Friday?"
He pushed his desk calendar toward me. It was Friday all right, and
the thirteenth at that. I was too embarrassed to speak, and I got up
and began to walk out. Mr. Krome called after me.

"This must be an important case, Mr. Saddle. I'll expect to see you the
first thing Monday."

I nodded, and left.

By Monday, my embarrassment had not diminished. I had really done an
unheard-of thing in patent prosecution.

In patent prosecution, the patent attorney has six months to respond
to an Office Action.

Since attorneys carry a docket of cases adapted to fill all their
time, an attorney in most instances requires the full six months
to respond to an outstanding Office Action.

Industrious attorneys with relatively light dockets might respond in
five months' time. This may also happen when the attorney is trying
to get a little ahead so he can go on a vacation.
There are rare instances of record when an attorney had taken some
action in three or four months. But here, in the Tearproof Paper Case,
I had actually gone for an interview on the very first day. I couldn't
possibly go back on the following Monday; my pride would not allow
me. I waited until Tuesday.

By that time I had gone over the entire rejection and planned my
complete response to the Examiner. I sat down with Mr. Krome on Tuesday
morning and talked steadily for fifteen minutes before I realized
he was watching me instead of paying attention to the case. I said,
"What's the matter."
He said wonderingly, "I've never seen you like this before. You are
acting almost as unreasonably as an inventor. You don't even want
to hear what I have to say about this case. You should relax, Mr.
Saddle.
You are here as an advocate, not as a midwife."
"I don't think that's very funny, Mr.

Krome," I proceeded to explain the high merit of the case, and he seemed
to listen then. Before I left he promised to give the case careful
consideration. This was all he ever promised, so I thanked him and
went back to my office. I filed my amendment in the case the next
day. It was eight months before I got the next Office
Action.

* * *
Callahan returned in six months and immediately opened a project on
the Tearproof Paper. The two of us sat down together to determine
the best way to handle the research.

I said, "Henry, we have already drawn up a complete research program.

All we have to do is follow it."
"We have?" Callahan was surprised.

"Sure." And I laid out in front of him a copy of our patent application,
and riffled through its pages. "All we have to do is go through all
the examples here to make certain they all work. If they do, the
program will be complete, except for the product itself and commercial
production. Our patent application will make the best research guide
we could get."

"Why certainly," said Callahan. "We have already spent a great deal
of time working out all kinds of substitute and equivalent reactions.
It's all here. Good. I'll set it up."

Callahan began distributing the work to various groups, and I went
back to my office.

Every Friday afternoon thereafter I went out to the laboratories to see
how things were coming along. They came along well.
From the beginning the actual results reached by the research teams
matched the predictions we had made in our patent application.

At the Friday afternoon meetings Callahan and I got into the
habit of tossing pleased and knowing glances at each other as the streams
of data continued to confirm our work. Several months rolled happily
by.

Then came a letter from the Lafe Rude Consultants, Inc., up in Boston.
The letter said that their people understood that the Marchare Laboratories
had under development a remarkably strong paper, and they would
be very much interested in discussing licensing possibilities with
us.

I grabbed the letter and stormed into Mr. Spardleton's office.

"Just read this," I almost yelled as I handed him the letter.

"This is the outfit that hired Callahan's technician.

Now they know all about the Tearproof Paper.

That technician has told them everything. I think we ought to sue
them--inducing disclosure of trade secrets, or something."

I added a great deal more as Mr. Spardleton finished the letter and sat
holding it looking up at me as I paced back and forth in front of
his desk.

As I walked and talked, I finally became conscious of the fact that Mr.
Spardleton was waiting for me to finish; I could tell by the
expression on his face. I pulled up in front of him and fell quiet.

He said, "Don't you feel it is significant that this letter was
sent to us, lawyers for Marchare Laboratories, rather than direct
to the Laboratories?"

I thought about it, and he continued, "Furthermore, as I understand it,
the Lafe Rude people have a good reputation."
That was right, too, and I saw what he was driving at. People of good
reputation don't try to pull a fast one by immediately alerting
the lawyers for the other side.

In fact, when I stopped to think about it, I could see that they
were bending over backwards to be careful in this situation.

Mr.

Spardleton said, as he handed back the letter, "I suggest you clear
with Dr.

Marchare, and then make arrangements to talk to these people and see if
you can negotiate some kind of profitable license. Marchare is pretty
fully committed right now, and I don't think he has time to exploit
this paper, even if it turns out to amount to something."
I looked at him, aghast that he should still be doubtful of the paper
at this late stage of the game. He saw my look and said, "Oops, I mean
this milestone in paper technology once it is announced to the
world."
That seemed better, more to the point. I called Dr. Marchare and
found that Mr. Spardleton was right, as usual. Dr. Marchare would
welcome a beneficial licensing arrangement. I then called the Rude
Associates on the phone; it seemed more expeditious than writing.
I set up a meeting date as soon as possible, one week away.
* * * * *
The day before I left for Boston I checked in with Callahan to make
certain all of our data were correct. We went over every aspect of
the Tearproof Paper Case. I picked out a dozen good samples of the
paper of varying composition and thickness and put them in my
briefcase along with a copy of the patent application. I had decided
that I might even show them a copy of the application if it might
help show what a marvelous discovery we had made. Callahan and I
shook hands solemnly, and he wished me the best of luck. I went
back to my office for a final quick check, got interested in Zabell's
book, and went home without my briefcase. There was no harm done.
My plane did not leave until ten in the morning and I had planned
to go back to the office anyway. I said good-by to Susan and Mr.
Spardleton, retrieved my briefcase from over by the radiator where
Susan had put it the night before, and caught the plane.
It was a cold damp day, and the threat of rain was in the air. In
Boston I caught a cab for the Massachusetts Avenue laboratories of
Rude Associates. Dr. Rude himself was at the meeting, along with
half a dozen of his associates. Dr. Rude was a small man, dapper,
totally unlike a research chemist, and his speech and manner were
as impeccable as his dress. Only his hands were a giveaway; they
were stained with yellow and black stains that looked completely
out of place on the man. Dr. Rude opened the meeting with an
explanation concerning the technician he had hired from the Marchare
Laboratories two years earlier.proves so frequently unreliable) that it would all come to pass as she
told.  She _knew_ it.

And so to the visit of the American consul, who tries to tell her that
her husband has written that he has tired of her--she, poor soul,
reading in his words the message that he still loves her.  Then the
final tableau of the act with Butterfly, her baby and Sazuki standing
at the Shosi facing the distant harbour where his ship has just been
signalled.  Softly the humming of the priests at worship ceases, and
the curtain descends on what must always remain a masterpiece of
delicate pathos--a story that will never lose its appeal while woman's
trust in man lends its charm to drab existence.

'The tenor didn't come in at all in that act,' said Lady Erskin.

'Really,' said the rector's wife, fixing her lorgnette on the opposite
box, 'that person with the leopard's skin looks absolutely like a
cannibal.'

'I'm just swimming in tears,' was the comment of Lady Erskin's daughter.

Elise said nothing; nor did she hear them speak.  Her heart was
fluttering wildly, and her hands were clasped tightly together.  She
had heard a far-away cry--and the voice was Dick's.


IV.

The raw air of the night, the dread of that loathsome, silent thing,
the haunting terror of the boy's eyes a few minutes before, the whine
of shells, all bored their way into Dick Durwent's brain.  He began to
tremble.  With every bit of will-power he fought it off, but he felt
the fumes of madness coming over him.

For days on end he had had no rest.  In the Fifth Army _débâcle_ of
March his battalion had been one of the first to break, although
remnants had fought as few men had ever fought before; and when they
had been reorganised they were moved back into the line, undermanned,
ill-equipped, and branded with disgrace.  It was the culmination of
three years' service at the front, and his nerves were at the
breaking-point.  Mounds of earth ahead of him, and gnarled, dismembered
trees, began to take the ghostly shapes that the frightened boy had
told of.

Mumbling meaningless things, he reached for his water-bottle and poured
a mouthful of rum down his throat.  It set his heart beating more
firmly, and his blood was no longer like ice in a sluggish river.  He
replaced the stopper and resumed his watch, but every fibre of his body
was craving for more of the alcohol.  With set teeth he struggled for
self-control, but every instinct was fighting against him.  He took
another sip, then a long draught of the scorching liquid, and leaned
against the parapet.  He pressed his hot face against the damp earth,
and burrowed his fingers into it in a frenzied effort for self-mastery.
Again he drank, and his mouth burned with the stuff.  His head was
swimming, and he could hear surf breaking on a rocky coast.  The dead
man was grinning at him, but death no longer held any terrors for him.
He raised the bottle in a mock toast and drank greedily of the rum
again.

The pounding of the waves puzzled him.  He could not remember that they
were near any water.  But more and more distinctly he could hear the
roll of surf dashed into spray against the shore. . . .  It was
strange. . . .  Once more he pressed the bottle to his lips, and it set
his very arteries on fire.  Yes.  Over to the left he could see the
glimmer of the ocean.  There was a light; some one was beside it.  It
was Elise!  She was giving a signal.  That was it--the smugglers were
landing their contraband, and she was signalling that all was clear.

He looked over to the dead man.  The corpse was rising to its feet.  It
had all been a hoax on its part--it was an excise officer.  His eyes
were fixed on the light, too.  His men would be near, and they would
capture Elise--and afterwards the smugglers, led by their
great-grandfather.  He would have to warn her.  He couldn't shout, for
that would give everything away.  He would crawl near to her first.

He finished the rum, draining the bottle to the last drop, and started
to creep along the trench, his heavy, powerless limbs carrying him only
inches where his imagination made it yards.  He looked back once.  The
dead man was following him.  It had become a race between himself and a
corpse.  He kept his eye on the light.  He could see Elise quite
plainly.  She was looking out towards the sea.

Feeling his muscles growing weaker, and fearful that the dead man would
overtake him, he struggled to his feet and clapped his hands to his
mouth.

'_Elise_!' he yelled.  '_Elise_!'

And with the roar of surf in his ears, he sank to the ground in a
drunken stupor.


V.

The last act of _Madam Butterfly_ was ending.  The cruel little
story wound to a close with the return of Pinkerton and his
sympathy-uninspiring American wife, and then the suicide of
Butterfly--the logical, but comparatively unmoving, finale to the opera.

But Elise neither saw the actors nor heard the music.  With her hands
covering her eyes, she had been listening for the voice of Dick.  She
could hear it, distant and faint, growing nearer, as if he were coming
towards her through a forest.  There was in it a despair she had never
heard before.  He was in danger--where or how she could not fathom--but
over the surging music of the orchestra she could hear the voice of
Boy-blue crying through the infinity of space.

The opera was over, and there was a storm of applause that developed
into an ovation.

'The tenor isn't really handsome, after all,' said Lady Erskin.

'I think the women of to-day are shameless,' said the rector's wife,
casting a last indignant glance at the box across the theatre.

'I feel a perfect rag,' said Lady Erskin's daughter.  'Good heavens!
Elise, what's the matter?'

'Nothing.  I--I don't know,' Elise answered, looking up with
terror-stricken eyes.  'I'm just overwrought.  That's all.'

'You poor dear!' said Lady Erskin.  'You shouldn't take the opera so
seriously.  After all, it didn't really happen--and I have no doubt in
real life the tenor is quite a model husband, with at least ten
children.'


VI.

'Drunk,' said the company commander, stooping over the prostrate body
of Dick Durwent.  'He was all right when he took over.  Where did he
get the stuff?'

'Smell that, sir,' said the subaltern of the night, handing him a
water-bottle.

'Humph!  This looks bad.  Have him carried to the rear and placed under
arrest.'


CHAPTER XXIV.

THE SENTENCE.


I.

--she sees the things of heaven; or a St. Jerome. And because these
glorious Saints had had such visions, I was so much the more afraid, and
did nothing but cry; for I did not think it possible for me to see what
they saw.
At last, though I felt it exceedingly, I went to my confessor; for I
never dared to keep secret anything of this kind, however much it
distressed me to speak of them, owing to the great fear I had of being
deceived. When my confessor saw how much I was suffering, he consoled
me greatly, and gave me plenty of good reasons why I should have no
fear.

3.

It happened, also, as time went on, and it happens now from time
to time, that our Lord showed me still greater secrets.
The soul, even if it would, has neither the means not the power to
see more than what He shows it; and so, each time, I saw nothing
more than what our Lord was pleased to let me see.

But such was the vision, that the least part of it was enough to make my
soul amazed, and to raise it so high that it esteems and counts as
nothing all the things of this life.

I wish I could describe, in some measure, the smallest portion of what
I saw; but when I think of doing it, I find it impossible; for the
mere difference alone between the light we have here below, and
that which is seen in a vision,--both being light,--is so great,
that there is no comparison between them; the brightness of the sun
itself seems to be something exceedingly loathsome.

In a word, the imagination, however strong it may be, can neither
conceive nor picture to itself this light, nor any one of the things
which our Lord showed me in a joy so supreme that it cannot be described;
for then all the senses exult so deeply and so sweetly that no description
is possible; and so it is better to say nothing more.

4. I was in this state once for more than an hour, our Lord showing
me wonderful things. He seemed as if He would not leave me. He said to
me, "See, My daughter, what they lose who are against Me; do not fail
to tell them of it." Ah, my Lord, how little good my words will do
them, who are made blind by their own conduct, if Thy Majesty will
not give them light!

Some, to whom Thou hast given it, there are, who have profited by the
knowledge of Thy greatness; but as they see it revealed to one so wicked
and base as I am, I look upon it as a great thing if there should be
any found to believe me.

Blessed be Thy name, and blessed be Thy compassion; for I can trace, at
least in my own soul, a visible improvement. Afterwards I wished I had
continued in that trance for ever, and that I had not returned to
consciousness, because of an abiding sense of contempt for everything
here below; all seemed to be filth; and I see how meanly we employ
ourselves who are detained on earth.

5.

When I was staying with that lady of whom I have been speaking, [1] it
happened to me once when I was suffering from my heart,--for, as I have
said, [2] I suffered greatly at one time, though not so much
now,--that she, being a person of great charity, brought out her
jewels set in gold, and precious stones of great price, and
particularly a diamond, which she valued very much.

She thought this might amuse me; but I laughed to myself, and was
very sorry to see what men made much of; for I thought of what our
Lord had laid up for us, and considered how impossible it was for
me, even if I made the effort, to have any appreciation whatever
of such things, provided our Lord did not permit me to forget what
He was keeping for us.

6.

A soul in this state attains to a certain freedom, which is so complete
that none can understand it who does not possess it.

It is a real and true detachment, independent of our efforts; God effects
it all Himself; for His Majesty reveals the truth in such a way, that
it remains so deeply impressed on our souls as to make it clear that
we of ourselves could not thus acquire it in so short a time.

7.

The fear of death, also, was now very slight in me, who had always been
in great dread of it; now it seems to me that death is a very light
thing for one who serves God, because the soul is in a moment
delivered thereby out of its prison, and at rest.

This elevation of the spirit, and the vision of things so high, in
these trances seem to me to have a great likeness to the flight of
the soul from the body, in that it finds itself in a moment in the
possession of these good things.

We put aside the agonies of its dissolution, of which no great account
is to be made; for they who love God in truth, and are utterly detached
from the things of this life, must die with the greater sweetness.

8.

It seems to me, also, that the rapture was a great help to recognise our
true home, and to see that we are pilgrims here; [3] it is a great
thing to see what is going on there and to know where we have to
live; for if a person has to go and settle in another country, it is a
great help to him, in undergoing the fatigues of his journey, that he
has discovered it to be a country where he may live in the most perfect
peace.
Moreover, it makes it easy for us to think of the things of heaven, and
to have our conversation there. [4] It is a great gain, because
the mere looking up to heaven makes the soul recollected; for as
our Lord has been pleased to reveal heaven in some degree, my soul
dwells upon it in thought; and it happens occasionally that they
who are about me, and with whom I find consolation, are those whom
I know to be living in heaven, and that I look upon them only as
really alive; while those who are on earth are so dead, that the
whole world seems unable to furnish me with companions, particularly
when these impetuosities of love are upon me.

Everything seems a dream, and what I see with the bodily eyes an illusion.
What I have seen with the eyes of the soul is that which my soul
desires; and as it finds itself far away from those things, that is
death.

9. In a word, it is a very great mercy which our Lord gives to that
soul to which He grants the like visions, for they help it in much,
and also in carrying a heavy cross, since nothing satisfies it, and
everything is against it; and if our Lord did not now and then suffer
these visions to be forgotten, though they recur again and again to the
memory, I know not how life could be borne. May He be blessed and praised
for ever and ever!
I implore His Majesty by that Blood which His Son shed for me, now
that, of His good pleasure, I know something of these great blessings,
and begin to have the fruition of them, that it may not be with me
as it was with Lucifer, who by his own fault forfeited it all.

I beseech Thee, for Thine own sake, not to suffer this; for I am at
times in great fear, though at others, and most frequently, the mercy
of God reassures me, for He who has delivered me from so many sins will
not withdraw His hand from under me, and let me be lost. I pray you,
my father, to beg this grace for me always.

10.

The mercies, then, hitherto described, are not, in my opinion, so
great as those which I am now going to speak of, on many accounts,
because of the great blessings they have brought with them, and because
of the great fortitude which my soul derived from them; and yet every
one separately considered is so great, that there is nothing to be
compared with them.

11.

One day--it was the eve of Pentecost--I went after Mass to a very
lonely spot, where I used to pray very often, and began to read about
the feast in the book of a Carthusian; [5] and reading of the marks
by which beginners, proficients, and the perfect may know that they have
the Holy Ghost, it seemed to me, when I had read of these three
states, that by the goodness of God, so far as I could understand,
the Holy Ghost was with me. I praised God for it; and calling to mind
how on another occasion, when I read this, I was very deficient,--for
I saw most distinctly at that time how deficient I was then from what
I saw I was now,--I recognised herein the great mercy of our Lord
to me, and so began to consider the place which my sins had earned
for me in hell, and praised God exceedingly, because it seemed as
if I did not know my own soul again, so great a change had come
over it.

12.

While thinking of these things, my soul was carried away with extreme
violence, and I knew not why. It seemed as if it would have gone forth
out of the body, for it could not contain itself, nor was it able to
hope for so great a good. The impetuosity was so excessive that I
had no power left, and, as I think, different from what I had been
used to. I knew not what ailed my soul, nor what it desired, for
it was so changed.

I leaned for support, for I could not sit, because my natural
strength had utterly failed.

13. Then I saw over my head a dove, very different from those we usually
see, for it had not the same plumage, but wings formed of small shells
shining brightly. It was larger than an ordinary dove; I thought I
heard the rustling of its wings. It hovered above me during the
space of an Ave Maria.

But such was the state of my soul, that in losing itself it lost also
the sight of the dove. My spirit grew calm with such a guest; and
yet, as I think, a grace so wonderful might have disturbed and
frightened it; and as it began to rejoice in the vision, it was
delivered from all fear, and with the joy came peace, my soul continuing
entranced.

The joy of this rapture was exceedingly great; and for the rest of
that festal time I was so amazed and bewildered that I did not know
what I was doing, nor how I could have received so great a grace. I
neither heard nor saw anything, so to speak, because of my great inward
joy.

From that day forth I perceived in myself a very great progress in
the highest love of God, together with a great increase in the
strength of my virtues.

May He be blessed and praised for ever! Amen.

14.

On another occasion I saw that very dove above the head of one of the
Dominican fathers; but it seemed to me that the rays and brightness
of the wings were far greater.

I understood by this that he was to draw souls unto God.

15.

At another time I saw our Lady putting a cope of exceeding whiteness on
that Licentiate of the same Order, of whom I have made mention more
than once. [6] She told me that she gave him that cope in consideration
of the service he had rendered her by helping to found this house,
[7] that it was a sign that she would preserve his soul pure for
the future, and that he should not fall into mortal sin.

I hold it for certain that so it came to pass, for he died within
a few years; his death and the rest of his life were so penitential,
his whole life and death so holy, that, so far as anything can be
known, there cannot be a doubt on the subject.

One of the friars present at his death told me that, before he
breathed his last, he said to him that St.

Thomas was with him. [8] He died in great joy, longing to depart out
of this land of exile.

16. Since then he has appeared to me more than once in exceedingly great
glory, and told me certain things.

He was so given to prayer, that when he was dying, and would have
interrupted it if he could because of his great weakness, he was
not able to do so; for he was often in a trance.

He wrote to me not long before he died, and asked me what he was
to do; for as soon as he had said Mass he fell into a trance which
lasted a long time, and which he could not hinder.

At last God gave him the reward of the many services of his whole
life.

17.

I had certain visions, too, of the great graces which our Lord
bestowed upon that rector of the Society of Jesus, of whom I have
spoken already more than once; [9] but I will not say anything of
them now, lest I should be too tedious.

It was his lot once to be in great trouble, to suffer great persecution
and distress.

One day, when I was hearing Mass, I saw Christ on the Cross at the
elevation of the Host.

He spoke certain words to me, which I was to repeat to that father for
his comfort, together with others, which were to warn him beforehand of
what was coming, and to remind him of what He had suffered on his behalf,
and that he must prepare for suffering.

This gave him great consolation and courage; and everything came to
pass afterwards as our Lord had told me.

18.

I have seen great things of members of the Order to which this
father belongs, which is the Society of Jesus, and of the whole Order
itself; I have occasionally seen them in heaven with white banners
in their hands, and I have had other most wonderful visions, as I am
saying, about them, and therefore have a great veneration for this
Order; for I have had a great deal to do with those who are of it, and
I see that their lives are conformed to that which our Lord gave
me to understand about them.

19.

One night, when I was in prayer, our Lord spoke to me certain words,
whereby He made me remember the great wickedness of my past life. They
filled me with shame and distress; for though they were not spoken
with severity, they caused a feeling and a painfulness which
were too much for me: and we feel that we make greater progress in
the knowledge of ourselves when we hear one of these words, than we
can make by a meditation of many days on our own misery, because
these words impress the truth upon us at the same time in such a
way that we cannot resist it.

He set before me the former inclinations of my will to vanities, and told
me to make much of the desire I now had that my will, which had
been so ill employed, should be fixed on Him, and that He would accept
it.

20. On other occasions He told me to remember how I used to think it
an honourable thing to go against His honour; and, again, to remember
my debt to Him, for when I was most rebellious He was bestowing
His graces upon me.

If I am doing anything wrong--and my wrong-doings are many--His Majesty
makes me see it in such a way that I am utterly confounded; and as I
do so often, that happens often also. I have been found fault with
by my confessors occasionally; and on betaking myself to prayer for
consolation, have received a real reprimand.

21. To return to what I was speaking of.

When our Lord made me remember my wicked life, I wept; for as I
considered that I had then never done any good, I thought He might
be about to bestow upon me some special grace; because most frequently,
when I receive any particular mercy from our Lord, it is when I
have been previously greatly humiliated, in order that I may the
more clearly see how far I am from deserving it.

I think our Lord must do it for that end.

22.

Almost immediately after this I was so raised up in spirit that I
thought myself to be, as it were, out of the body; at least, I did
not know that I was living in it. [10] I had a vision of the most
Sacred Humanity in exceeding glory, greater than I had ever seen
It in before.

I beheld It in a wonderful and clear way in the bosom of the Father.

I cannot tell how it was, for I saw myself, without seeing, as it
seemed to me, in the presence of God.

My amazement was such that I remained, as I believe, some days before
I could recover myself. I had continually before me, as present, the
Majesty of the Son of God, though not so distinctly as in the
vision.

I understood this well enough; but the vision remained so impressed
on my imagination, that I could not get rid of it for some time,
though it had lasted but a moment; it is a great comfort to me, and
also a great blessing.

23.

I have had this vision on three other occasions, and it is, I
think, the highest vision of all the visions which our Lord in His
mercy showed me. The fruits of it are the very greatest, for it seems
to purify the soul in a wonderful way, and destroy, as it were
utterly, altogether the strength of our sensual nature.

It is a grand flame of fire, which seems to burn up and annihilate
all the desires of this life.

For though now--glory be to God!--I had no desire after vanities, I
saw clearly in the vision how all things are vanity, and how hollow are
all the dignities of earth; it was a great lesson, teaching me to
raise up my desires to the Truth alone.

It impresses on the soul a sense of the presence of God such as I
cannot in any way describe, only it is very different from that
which it is in our own power to acquire on earth.

It fills the soul with profound astonishment at its own daring, and at
any one else being able to dare to offend His most awful Majesty.

24. I must have spoken now and then of the effects of visions, [11] and
of other matters of the same kind, and I have already said that
the blessings they bring with them are of various degrees; but
those of this vision are the highest of all.

When I went to Communion once I called to mind the exceeding great
majesty of Him I had seen, and considered that it was He who is
present in the most Holy Sacrament, and very often our Lord was
pleased to show Himself to me in the Host; the very hairs on my
head stood, [12] and I thought I should come to nothing.

25.

O my Lord! ah, if Thou didst not throw a veil over Thy greatness, who
would dare, being so foul and miserable, to come in contact with Thy
great Majesty? Blessed be Thou, O Lord; may the angels and all
creation praise Thee, who orderest all things according to the
measure of our weakness, so that, when we have the fruition of Thy
sovereign mercies, Thy great power may not terrify us, so that we
dare not, being a frail and miserable race, persevere in that
fruition!

26. It might happen to us as it did to the labourer--I know it to be
a certain fact--who found a treasure beyond his expectations, which
were mean. When he saw himself in possession of it, he was seized with
melancholy, which by degrees brought him to his grave through simple
distress and anxiety of mind, because he did not know what to do
with his treasure.

If he had not found it all at once, and if others had given him portions
of it by degrees, maintaining him thereby, he might have been more
happy than he had been in his poverty, nor would it have cost him
his life.

27.

O Thou Treasure of the poor! how marvellously Thou sustainest souls,
showing to them, not all at once, but by little and little, the
abundance of Thy riches!

When I behold Thy great Majesty hidden beneath that which is so
slight as the Host is, I am filled with wonder, ever since that
vision, at Thy great wisdom; and I know not how it is that our Lord
gives me the strength and courage necessary to draw near to him,
were it not that He who has had such compassion on me, and still
has, gives me strength, nor would it be possible for me to be silent,
or refrain from making known marvels so great.

28.

What must be the thoughts of a wretched person such as I am, full
of abominations, and who has spent her life with so little fear of
God, when she draws near to our Lord's great Majesty, at the moment
He is pleased to show Himself to my soul?

How can I open my mouth, that has uttered so many words against Him, to
receive that most glorious Body, purity and compassion itself?

The love that is visible in His most beautiful Face, sweet and tender,
pains and distresses the soul, because it has not served Him, more than
all the terrors of His Majesty.

What should have been my thoughts, then, on those two occasions
when I saw what I have described? Truly, O my Lord and my joy, I am going
to say that in some way, in these great afflictions of my soul, I have
done something in Thy service. Ah! I know not what I am saying, for
I am writing this as if the words were not mine, [13] because I am
troubled, and in some measure beside myself, when I call these things
to remembrance. If these thoughts were really mine, I might well say
that I had done something for Thee, O my Lord; but as I can have
no good thought if Thou givest it not, no thanks are due to me; I am
the debtor, O Lord, and it is Thou who art the offended One.

29. Once, when I was going to Communion, I saw with the eyes of the soul,
more distinctly than with those of the body, two devils of most
hideous shape; their horns seemed to encompass the throat of the
poor priest; and I beheld my Lord, in that great majesty of which
I have spoken, [14] held in the hands of that priest, in the Host
he was about to give me.

It was plain that those hands were those of a sinner, and I felt that
the soul of that priest was in mortal sin.

What must it be, O my Lord, to look upon Thy beauty amid shapes so
hideous!

The two devils were so frightened and cowed in Thy presence, that
they seemed as if they would have willingly run away, hadst Thou but
given them leave. So troubled was I by the vision, that I knew not how
I could go to Communion.

I was also in great fear, for I thought, if the vision was from God,
that His Majesty would not have allowed me to see the evil state of
that soul. [15]
30. Our Lord Himself told me to pray for that priest; that He had allowed
this in order that I might understand the power of the words of
consecration, and how God failed not to be present, however wicked
the priest might be who uttered them; and that I might see His great
goodness in that He left Himself in the very hands of His enemy,
for my good and for the good of all.

I understood clearly how the priests are under greater obligations to
be holy than other persons; and what a horrible thing it is to receive
this most Holy Sacrament unworthily, and how great is the devil's
dominion over a soul in mortal sin.
It did me a great service, and made me fully understand what I owe
to God.

May He be blessed for evermore!

31. At another time I had a vision of a different kind, which frightened
me very much. I was in a place where a certain person died, who as I
understood had led a very bad life, and that for many years. But he had
been ill for two years, and in some respects seemed to have reformed.

He died without confession; nevertheless, I did not think he would
be damned.

When the body had been wrapped in the winding-sheet, I saw it laid hold
of by a multitude of devils, who seemed to toss it to and fro, and also
to treat it with great cruelty. I was terrified at the sight, for they
dragged it about with great hooks.
'Willingly,' said Dick, taking a sealed letter from the groom, who
squatted solemnly on the ground, assuming an air of deep contemplation,
as one who has to give an opinion on a hitherto unread masterpiece.

'It begins,' said Dick, with some difficulty making out the writing,
which was extremely small in some words and very large in others, and
punctuated mainly with blots--'"Dear Daddy"'----

'That,' said Mathews, 'is conseckens o' me bein' sire to little
Wellington.'

'Oh yes,' said Dick.  '"Dear Daddy, ther ain't nothing to tell you
Wellington has took the mumps and the cat had some more kittens"'----

'That's a werry remark'ble cat,' observed Mathews.  'I never see a animal
so ambitious.  Wot does the old girl say Wellington has took?'

'Mumps.'

'By Criky!  I hope it don't go for to make his nose no bigger.  Wot a
infant he is!  Mumps!  Go on, Mas'r Dick--the old girl's doin' fine.'

'"The day,"' resumed Dick--'"the day afor Tuesday come last week"'----

'Don't pull up, sir,' said Mathews as Dick paused to re-read the puzzling
words.  'You has to take my old woman at a good clip to get her
meanin'--but you'll find it hid somewere, Mas'r Dick.  I never see the
old girl come a cropper yet.'

With this to guide him, the reader found his place again with the aid of
a blot, a half-inch square, which surrounded the first word.  '"The day
afor Tuesday,"' he went on, '"come last week Wellington and the rector's
boy Charlie fit."'

'Werry good,' said Mathews approvingly.

'"Wellington's nose were badly done in and he looks awful bad but the
rector's boy"'----

'Wot does she say about him?' asked Mathews, staring into space.

'"The rector's boy could not see out of neither eye for 3 days."'

Repressing a chuckle by a great effort, Mathews hastily fumbled for his
corncob pipe, and placing it unlit in his mouth, continued to look into
space with a face that was almost purple from smothered exuberance.

'"Milord and Lady,"' resumed Dick, '"is just the same and Milord always
asks how you was and will I remember him to you."'

'A thoroughbred--that's wot he is,' said Mathews, apparently addressing
the distant refugees.

'"Miss Elise was heer last week and is that sweet grown that all the
woonded tommies fit with pillos to see who wud propos to her.  There
ain't no news.  Bertha the skullery maid marrid a hyland soldier and they
are going for to keep a sweet-shop after the war.  Wellington sprayned
his ankil yesterday by clyming out of the windo where I had locked him in
as he has the mumps."'

'Wot a infant!' commented Mathews admiringly.

'"I am sending you a parsil and a picter of me and Wellington.  We are
very lonesum, daddy, and I'll be reel glad when the war is over and you
come back.  It is awful lonesum and Wellington is to.  This morning he
cut his hand trying to carv our best chair into the shape of a horse.  I
am feeling fine and hope the reumatiz don't worry you no more.  With
heeps of love from me and Wellington, your wife, Maggie."'

It was a strange contrast in faces as the young man folded the letter and
handed it back.  In the countenance of the groom there was a sturdy pride
in the epistolary achievement of his wife--a pride which he made a
violent but unsuccessful effort to conceal.  In the pale, handsome face
of the young aristocrat there was a whimsical pathos.  By the picture
conjured up in the crudely written letter he had seen his parents, his
sister, the humble cottage of the groom, and the wife's faithfulness and
cheeriness.  He had seen them, not as separate things, but hallowed and
unified by a common sacrifice for England.

For the first time since his escape Dick Durwent regretted it.  He could
see no safety ahead for Mathews, no matter how long they evaded arrest.
Although a cool, fretful wind was blowing over the fields, the warm noon
sun made his eyelids heavy.

Against the wish of the groom, he insisted upon spreading the greatcoat
over them both, and in a few minutes master and man were resting side by
side as comrades.

'Mathews,' said Dick quietly.

'Yezzir?'

'Give me your word that if you ever reach England you will never tell my
family about this.  They don't know I am in France, and'----

'Mum as a oyster, sir--that's the ticket.  Werry good, Mas'r Dick.  A
oyster it is.'

Ten minutes had passed without either of them speaking, when Mathews
partially raised himself on one elbow.  'If women,' he said ruminatingly,
'was to have votes, my old girl would run for Parlyment, sure as
skittles.  I wonder, Mas'r Dick, if a feller who courted a girl in good
faith, and arter a few years found she were Prime Minister of
England--would that constitoot grounds for divorce?'

But Dick was asleep, and dreaming of days when happiness was in the air
one breathed; when brother and sister had revelled in nature's carnival
of seasons.  After several minutes' contemplation of the uncertainty of
married life, the old groom followed him into a slumber which was
unattended by dreams, but did not lack a sonorous serenade.


II.

The night was streaked with tragedy as the fugitives stole to the road.
The drum-fire of the guns had grown to a roar, through which there came
the blast and the crash of siege artillery, shaking the earth to its very
foundations, as if the gases of hell had ignited and were bursting
through.  As though by lightning striking low, the night was lit with
flashes illuminating the fields and the roads about; and shells were
screaming and whining through the air, winged, blood-sucking monsters
crying for their prey.  Across a yellow moon broken clouds were driven on
a gale that whipped the dust of the roads into moaning whirlpools.

Dense traffic moved sullenly on, the ghostly figures of drivers astride
horses that whinnied in terror of the night.  Not a light was shown.
There were only the glimpses of the sickly moonlight and the flame-red
flashes of the guns; and, unnoticed, Durwent and the groom followed
beside a lorry.

Once, as they strode forward in the roar and horror of the dark, they
heard the explosion of a shell that, by a trick of ill-luck, had found
the road.  There followed the shriek of wounded horses, quick commands
penetrating the darkness.  Corpses of men, dead horses, and shattered
vehicles were drawn aside, and the long line that had been halted for
four minutes closed the gap and moved on.

When they reached the turn in the road, they left the shadowy procession
and made for the river by following a soft wagon-path that cut across the
fields.  For two hours they hurried on through the night's madness.  More
than once they were almost thrown to the ground by the terrific explosion
of heavy guns that had taken up positions by the path; and by the flashes
in the fields they could see the weird figures of the gunners toiling at
their work of death.

As they neared the river they caught a glimpse of coloured flares not far
ahead, and there came a momentary lull in the confused bombardment.

'Listen!' cried Dick.

From somewhere on the banks of the river there was the sound of
rifle-fire, and the rat-tat-tat-tat of machine-guns, like the rattle of
riveters at work on a steel structure.

Following a tow-path which ran by the river, they appeared to be entering
a zone of comparative quiet.  Although the sound of rifle-fire grew more
clear, the noise of the guns came from behind them, but to the right and
the left.  For an hour they ran rapidly forward, and it seemed that the
tide of battle had swept to the north, leaving this area denuded of
troops.  They saw neither guns nor infantry, although a renewed burst of
machine-gun fire told them they were nearing their unknown destination.

They had not started from their hiding-place until nearly midnight, and
as they reached a slight rise of the ground they could see that the
darkness was slowly lifting with day's approach.

'See, sir,' said the groom, pointing ahead, 'yonder side o' the river to
the right.'

'I can't see anything,'

'Look 'ee, Mas'r Dick.  Follow the river.  I think that that there gray
streak is a bridge.'

It was not until they had gone ahead a considerable distance that Durwent
could make out a heavy bridge spanning the river, which ran with a swift
current, and was more than two hundred feet in width.  A blurring red was
tinting the black clouds in the east as they crept along the path, when
they heard a sharp challenge.

'Friends,' cried Dick, and halted.

'Stand still until I give you the once over.'  An American corporal, who
had apparently been running and was out of breath, came up to them,
carrying a revolver, and looked closely into their faces.

'What are you doing here?' he asked.

'Stragglers,' answered Durwent, 'separated from our unit.'

'Where in Samhill is the rest of your army?'

'There are no troops back here for ten miles,' answered Dick.

The American took off his helmet and wiped his brow.

'Jumping Jehosophat!' he exclaimed ruefully, 'do I have to marathon ten
miles and back?  They sure are generous with exercise in the army.  Say,
you guys--if you're on the level about being stragglers, and want a real
honest-to-God showdown scrap, you hike over that bridge.  Do you see that
big tree over in the bush?  Can you make it out?  Well, when you get
across the river, just line your lamps on that tree, and after half a
mile or so you'll come to a sunken road.  Report to Major Van Derwater,
and tell him you're the only army M'Goorty--that's me--has found so far.
And tell him I'll discover the French admiral who is supposed to be
bringing up reinforcements, if I have to search this whole one-horse
country for him.  You'd better get a move on before the light comes up,
for, believe me, Lizzie, those Boches can shoot, and if ever they see you
coming across that bridge you may as well kiss yourselves good-bye.'

Having delivered himself of this expressive monologue, the corporal
replaced the revolver in its holster and took a seaman's hitch in his
breeches.  Again the machine-guns spat out, the sound seeming to be borne
on the wind as the bullets traversed the air.

'Gosh!' said the corporal, 'but I'd give a year's tips to see that scrap
out.  They had the bulge on us by about three to one, and we had to back
up to keep the line straight, but now we're holding them great.
Say--we've got a bunch of bowhunks there who could shoot the wart off a
snail.  Some scrap, believe me.  Well, so long.'

He had just started off at a run, when he stopped and turned round.  'If
you ever come to New York, look me up at the Belmont.  I'm a waiter
there, and I can put you wise to a lot of things.  Chin, Chin!'

'Cheerio,' answered Dick, as the energetic corporal disappeared.

'I'm gettin' 'ard o' 'earin',' said the old groom.  'Leastways I ain't
sure I 'eerd 'im correct.  Wot did 'e say?'

'Mathews!'--Dick turned to his servant, and his voice shook with
excitement--'there's a battle going on the other side of the river, and
we're to report to Major Van Derwater.  By heavens, Mathews!  I feel
half-mad with joy.  They didn't get us after all, did they?  We sha'n't
be shot like curs, at any rate.  Think of it, old man--we've won out!
They can't stop us now'----  His words stopped suddenly.  'Mathews,' he
said, 'you must not come.  Stay here, and join the reinforcements when
they turn up.  You have to consider your wife and little Wellington.'

For answer the groom started along the path towards the bridge, and
Durwent was forced to break into a run before he could head him off.

'Mathews,' he said sternly.

'Mas'r Dick,' replied the groom, snorting violently, 'you shouldn't go
for to insult me.  Beggin' your pardon and meanin' no disrespeck, this
here war is as much mine as yourn.  Orders or no orders, I'm agoin' to
have a howd'ee with them sausage-eaters, and, as that there free-spoke
young gen'l'man observed, the bridge ain't exactly a chancery in the
daylight.  Come along, sir; argifyin' don't get nowhere.'

Realising that further expostulation was useless, Dick followed the groom
to the bridge.  As they crossed it he noted that it was strongly built of
steel, with supports that would bear the heaviest of weights.  Gaining
the opposite side, they waited as Dick took his bearings by the tree; and
crossing a hard, chalky field, they stole towards the sunken road.  They
could hear the occasional crack of a rifle, and there was the _ping_ of a
bullet passing over their heads as they pressed on through the lightening
gloom.

'Halt!'

A voice rang out, and they were questioned as to their identity.  On
being ordered to advance, they jumped down into a sunken road which
constituted an admirable trench, and were at once surrounded by American
soldiers.

'I was ordered to report to Major Van Derwater,' said Durwent.

They were asked various questions, and were then escorted a few yards to
the right, where an officer was looking over the bank which hid the road.

'British stragglers, sir,' said the sergeant who had taken charge of them.

'What unit are you from?' asked the officer.

His voice was calm and deep, but gave no indication as to how he felt
disposed towards the two fugitives.  In answer to his question Dick gave
the name of his battalion, and Mathews did the same.

'How did you know my name?'

'We met your corporal, sir,' said Durwent.

'Where are your rifles?'

'Lost them, sir.'

'In what engagement were you cut off from your units?'

Dick tried to reply, but not only was he ignorant of the locality through
which he had travelled, but his soul burned with resentment at being
forced into lying.  Mathews said nothing, and seemed quite untroubled.
He was prepared to accept his young master's choice of engagements for
his own, no matter where or when it might have taken place.

'I don't like this,' said the officer.  'These men are a long way from
the British lines, and are either deserters or worse.  Guard them
closely, and if things get hot, tie their arms together so they will give
no trouble.'

'Very good, sir,' answered the sergeant, preparing to lead them away; but
Durwent, whose blood, had run cold with dismay at the officer's words,
struggled forward.

'Sir,' he cried, 'if you think I'm not to be trusted, give me a dirty
job--anything.  A bombing-raid, or a patrol--I'll do anything at all,
sir, if you'll only give me a chance.'

'Well spoke, Mas'r Dick,' said Mathews proudly.  'Werry well spoke
indeed.'

[Footnote 4: _Ibid_ 36.]
Crates, the celebrated Cynic philosopher, got such a box on the ear from
Nicodromus, the musician, that his face swelled up and became black
and blue; whereupon he put a label on his forehead, with the
inscription, _Nicodromus fecit_, which brought much disgrace to the
fluteplayer who had committed such a piece of brutality upon the
man whom all Athens honored as a household god.[1] And in a letter
to Melesippus, Diogenes of Sinope tells us that he got a beating
from the drunken sons of the Athenians; but he adds that it was a
matter of no importance.[2] And Seneca devotes the last few chapters
of his _De Constantia_ to a lengthy discussion on insult--_contumelia_;
in order to show that a wise man will take no notice of it.

In Chapter XIV, he says, _What shall a wise man do, if he is given
a blow?

What Cato did, when some one struck him on the mouth;--not fire up
or avenge the insult, or even return the blow, but simply ignore it_.

[Footnote 1: Diogenes Laertius, vi. 87, and Apul: Flor: p. 126.]
[Footnote 2: Cf. Casaubon's Note, Diog. Laert., vi. 33.]

_Yes_, you say, _but these men were philosophers_.--And you are fools,
eh? Precisely.

It is clear that the whole code of knightly honor was utterly unknown to
the ancients; for the simple reason that they always took a natural and
unprejudiced view of human affairs, and did not allow themselves to
be influenced by any such vicious and abominable folly. A blow in the
face was to them a blow and nothing more, a trivial physical injury;
whereas the moderns make a catastrophe out of it, a theme for a
tragedy; as, for instance, in the _Cid_ of Corneille, or in a recent German
comedy of middle-class life, called _The Power of Circumstance_,
which should have been entitled _The Power of Prejudice_.

If a member of the National Assembly at Paris got a blow on the ear,
it would resound from one end of Europe to the other. The examples which
I have given of the way in which such an occurrence would have been
treated in classic times may not suit the ideas of _honorable people_;
so let me recommend to their notice, as a kind of antidote, the
story of Monsieur Desglands in Diderot's masterpiece, _Jacques le
fataliste_.

It is an excellent specimen of modern knightly honor, which, no doubt,
they will find enjoyable and edifying.[1]
[Footnote: 1: _Translator's Note_. The story to which Schopenhauer here
refers is briefly as follows: Two gentlemen, one of whom was named
Desglands, were paying court to the same lady.

As they sat at table side by side, with the lady opposite, Desglands did
his best to charm her with his conversation; but she pretended not
to hear him, and kept looking at his rival. In the agony of jealousy,
Desglands, as he was holding a fresh egg in his hand, involuntarily
crushed it; the shell broke, and its contents bespattered his rival's
face.

Seeing him raise his hand, Desglands seized it and whispered: _Sir, I
take it as given_. The next day Desglands appeared with a large piece of
black sticking-plaster upon his right cheek. In the duel which followed,
Desglands severely wounded his rival; upon which he reduced the size of
the plaster. When his rival recovered, they had another duel; Desglands
drew blood again, and again made his plaster a little smaller; and so
on for five or six times. After every duel Desglands' plaster grew less
and less, until at last his rival.]
From what I have said it must be quite evident that the principle of
knightly honor has no essential and spontaneous origin in human nature.
It is an artificial product, and its source is not hard to find.

Its existence obviously dates from the time when people used their fists
more than their heads, when priestcraft had enchained the human
intellect, the much bepraised Middle Age, with its system of
chivalry. That was the time when people let the Almighty not only care
for them but judge for them too; when difficult cases were decided
by an ordeal, a _Judgment of God_; which, with few exceptions,
meant a duel, not only where nobles were concerned, but in the case
of ordinary citizens as well. There is a neat illustration of this in
Shakespeare's Henry VI.[1] Every judicial sentence was subject to an
appeal to arms--a court, as it were, of higher instance, namely, _the
Judgment of God_: and this really meant that physical strength and
activity, that is, our animal nature, usurped the place of reason
on the judgment seat, deciding in matters of right and wrong, not
by what a man had done, but by the force with which he was opposed,
the same system, in fact, as prevails to-day under the principles
of knightly honor.

If any one doubts that such is really the origin of our modern duel,
let him read an excellent work by J.B.

Millingen, _The History of Dueling_.[2] Nay, you may still find amongst the
supporters of the system,--who, by the way are not usually the most
educated or thoughtful of men,--some who look upon the result of a duel
as really constituting a divine judgment in the matter in dispute;
no doubt in consequence of the traditional feeling on the subject.

But leaving aside the question of origin, it must now be clear to
us that the main tendency of the principle is to use physical menace
for the purpose of extorting an appearance of respect which is
deemed too difficult or superfluous to acquire in reality; a
proceeding which comes to much the same thing as if you were to
prove the warmth of your room by holding your hand on the thermometer
and so make it rise.

In fact, the kernel of the matter is this: whereas civic honor aims at
peaceable intercourse, and consists in the opinion of other people
that _we deserve full confidence_, because we pay unconditional
respect to their rights; knightly honor, on the other hand, lays
down that _we are to be feared_, as being determined at all costs
to maintain our own.

As not much reliance can be placed upon human integrity, the principle that
it is more essential to arouse fear than to invite confidence would
not, perhaps, be a false one, if we were living in a state of nature,
where every man would have to protect himself and directly maintain
his own rights.

But in civilized life, where the State undertakes the protection
of our person and property, the principle is no longer applicable:
it stands, like the castles and watch-towers of the age when might
was right, a useless and forlorn object, amidst well-tilled fields
and frequented roads, or even railways.

Accordingly, the application of knightly honor, which still recognizes
this principle, is confined to those small cases of personal assault
which meet with but slight punishment at the hands of the law, or
even none at all, for _de minimis non_,--mere trivial wrongs,
committed sometimes only in jest.

The consequence of this limited application of the principle is that
it has forced itself into an exaggerated respect for the value of
the person,--a respect utterly alien to the nature, constitution
or destiny of man--which it has elated into a species of sanctity:
and as it considers that the State has imposed a very insufficient
penalty on the commission of such trivial injuries, it takes upon
itself to punish them by attacking the aggressor in life or limb.

The whole thing manifestly rests upon an excessive degree of arrogant
pride, which, completely forgetting what man really is, claims that
he shall be absolutely free from all attack or even censure.

Those who determine to carry out this principle by main force, and announce,
as their rule of action, _whoever insults or strikes me shall die_!
ought for their pains to be banished the country.[1]
[Footnote 1: Knightly honor is the child of pride and folly, and
it is _needy_ not pride, which is the heritage of the human race.

It is a very remarkable fact that this extreme form of pride should
be found exclusively amongst the adherents of the religion which
teaches the deepest humility.

Still, this pride must not be put down to religion, but, rather, to the
feudal system, which made every nobleman a petty sovereign who
recognized no human judge, and learned to regard his person as sacred
and inviolable, and any attack upon it, or any blow or insulting word,
as an offence punishable with death.

The principle of knightly honor and of the duel were at first confined
to the nobles, and, later on, also to officers in the army, who, enjoying
a kind of off-and-on relationship with the upper classes, though they were
never incorporated with them, were anxious not to be behind them.
It is true that duels were the product of the old ordeals; but the
latter are not the foundation, but rather the consequence and application
of the principle of honor: the man who recognized no human judge appealed
to the divine. Ordeals, however, are not peculiar to Christendom: they
may be found in great force among the Hindoos, especially of ancient
times; and there are traces of them even now.]
As a palliative to this rash arrogance, people are in the habit of
giving way on everything.

If two intrepid persons meet, and neither will give way, the slightest
difference may cause a shower of abuse, then fisticuffs, and,
finally, a fatal blow: so that it would really be a more decorous
proceeding to omit the intermediate steps and appeal to arms at once.

An appeal to arms has its own special formalities; and these have
developed into a rigid and precise system of laws and regulations, together
forming the most solemn farce there is--a regular temple of
honor dedicated to folly!

For if two intrepid persons dispute over some trivial matter, (more
important affairs are dealt with by law), one of them, the cleverer
of the two, will of course yield; and they will agree to differ.

That this is so is proved by the fact that common people,--or, rather, the
numerous classes of the community who do not acknowledge the principle of
knightly honor, let any dispute run its natural course. Amongst these
classes homicide is a hundredfold rarer than amongst those--and they
amount, perhaps, in all, to hardly one in a thousand,--who pay homage
to the principle:
and even blows are of no very frequent occurrence.

Then it has been said that the manners and tone of good society are
ultimately based upon this principle of honor, which, with its system
of duels, is made out to be a bulwark against the assaults of
savagery and rudeness.

But Athens, Corinth and Rome could assuredly boast of good, nay, excellent
society, and manners and tone of a high order, without any support from
the bogey of knightly honor. It is true that women did not occupy that
prominent place in ancient society which they hold now, when conversation
has taken on a frivolous and trifling character, to the exclusion
of that weighty discourse which distinguished the ancients.

This change has certainly contributed a great deal to bring about the
tendency, which is observable in good society now-a-days, to prefer personal
courage to the possession of any other quality. The fact is that personal
courage is really a very subordinate virtue,--merely the distinguishing
mark of a subaltern,--a virtue, indeed, in which we are surpassed by
the lower animals; or else you would not hear people say, _as brave as a
lion_. Far from being the pillar of society, knightly honor affords a
sure asylum, in general for dishonesty and wickedness, and also for small
incivilities, want of consideration and unmannerliness.

Rude behavior is often passed over in silence because no one cares to risk
his neck in correcting it.

After what I have said, it will not appear strange that the dueling
system is carried to the highest pitch of sanguinary zeal precisely
in that nation whose political and financial records show that they
are not too honorable.

What that nation is like in its private and domestic life, is a question
which may be best put to those who are experienced in the matter. Their
urbanity and social culture have long been conspicuous by their
absence.

There is no truth, then, in such pretexts. It can be urged with more
justice that as, when you snarl at a dog, he snarls in return, and
when you pet him, he fawns; so it lies in the nature of men to return
hostility by hostility, and to be embittered and irritated at any signs
of depreciatory treatment or hatred: and, as Cicero says, _there is something
so penetrating in the shaft of envy that even men of wisdom and
worth find its wound a painful one_; and nowhere in the world,
except, perhaps, in a few religious sects, is an insult or a blow
taken with equanimity.

And yet a natural view of either would in no case demand anything
more than a requital proportionate to the offence, and would never
go to the length of assigning _death_ as the proper penalty for
anyone who accuses another of lying or stupidity or cowardice.

The old German theory of _blood for a blow_ is a revolting superstition
of the age of chivalry. And in any case the return or requital of an
insult is dictated by anger, and not by any such obligation of honor and
duty as the advocates of chivalry seek to attach to it. The fact is that,
the greater the truth, the greater the slander; and it is clear that the
slightest hint of some real delinquency will give much greater
offence than a most terrible accusation which is perfectly baseless:
so that a man who is quite sure that he has done nothing to deserve
a reproach may treat it with contempt, and will be safe in doing so.

The theory of honor demands that he shall show a susceptibility
which he does not possess, and take bloody vengeance for insults
which he cannot feel.

A man must himself have but a poor opinion of his own worth who hastens
to prevent the utterance of an unfavorable opinion by giving his enemy
a black eye.

True appreciation of his own value will make a man really indifferent to
insult; but if he cannot help resenting it, a little shrewdness and culture
will enable him to save appearances and dissemble his anger.
If he could only get rid of this superstition about honor--the idea, I mean,
that it disappears when you are insulted, and can be restored by returning
the insult; if we could only stop people from thinking that wrong,
brutality and insolence can be legalized by expressing readiness
to give satisfaction, that is, to fight in defence of it, we should
all soon come to the general opinion that insult and depreciation
are like a battle in which the loser wins; and that, as Vincenzo
Monti says, abuse resembles a church-procession, because it always
returns to the point from which it set out.

If we could only get people to look upon insult in this light, we
should no longer have to say something rude in order to prove that
we are in the right.

Now, unfortunately, if we want to take a serious view of any question, we
have first of all to consider whether it will not give offence in some way
or other to the dullard, who generally shows alarm and resentment at the
merest sign of intelligence; and it may easily happen that the
head which contains the intelligent view has to be pitted against
the noodle which is empty of everything but narrowness and stupidity.

If all this were done away with, intellectual superiority could
take the leading place in society which is its due--a place now
occupied, though people do not like to confess it, by excellence
of physique, mere fighting pluck, in fact; and the natural effect
of such a change would be that the best kind of people would have
one reason the less for withdrawing from society.

This would pave the way for the introduction of real courtesy and
genuinely good society, such as undoubtedly existed in Athens,
Corinth and Rome.

If anyone wants to see a good example of what I mean, I should like him
to read Xenophon's _Banquet_.

The last argument in defence of knightly honor no doubt is, that,
but for its existence, the world--awful thought!--would be a regular
bear-garden. To which I may briefly reply that nine hundred and ninety-nine
people out of a thousand who do not recognize the code, have often
given and received a blow without any fatal consequences:
whereas amongst the adherents of the code a blow usually means death
to one of the parties.

But let me examine this argument more closely.

I have often tried to find some tenable, or at any rate, plausible
basis--other than a merely conventional one--some positive reasons,
that is to say, for the rooted conviction which a portion of mankind
entertains, that a blow is a very dreadful thing; but I have looked
for it in vain, either in the animal or in the rational side of
human nature.

A blow is, and always will be, a trivial physical injury which one man
can do to another; proving, thereby, nothing more than his
superiority in strength or skill, or that his enemy was off his
guard.
Analysis will carry us no further. The same knight who regards a blow
from the human hand as the greatest of evils, if he gets a ten times
harder blow from his horse, will give you the assurance, as he limps
away in suppressed pain, that it is a matter of no consequence whatever.
So I have come to think that it is the human hand which is at the bottom
of the mischief.

And yet in a battle the knight may get cuts and thrusts from the
same hand, and still assure you that his wounds are not worth
mentioning. Now, I hear that a blow from the flat of a sword is not
by any means so bad as a blow from a stick; and that, a short time
ago, cadets were liable to be punished by the one but not the other,
and that the very greatest honor of all is the _accolade_.

This is all the psychological or moral basis that I can find; and so there
is nothing left me but to pronounce the whole thing an antiquated
superstition that has taken deep root, and one more of the many examples
which show the force of tradition. My view is confirmed by the well-known
fact that in China a beating with a bamboo is a very frequent punishment
for the common people, and even for officials of every class; which
shows that human nature, even in a highly civilized state, does not run
in the same groove here and in China.

On the contrary, an unprejudiced view of human nature shows that it
is just as natural for a man to beat as it is for savage animals to bite
and rend in pieces, or for horned beasts to butt or push. Man may be said
to be the animal that beats. Hence it is revolting to our sense of
the fitness of things to hear, as we sometimes do, that one man bitten
another; on the other hand, it is a natural and everyday occurrence for
him to get blows or give them.

It is intelligible enough that, as we become educated, we are glad to
dispense with blows by a system of mutual restraint. But it is a cruel
thing to compel a nation or a single class to regard a blow as
an awful misfortune which must have death and murder for its consequences.
There are too many genuine evils in the world to allow of our
increasing them by imaginary misfortunes, which brings real ones
in their train: and yet this is the precise effect of the superstition,
which thus proves itself at once stupid and malign.

It does not seem to me wise of governments and legislative bodies to
promote any such folly by attempting to do away with flogging as a punishment
in civil or military life. Their idea is that they are acting in the
interests of humanity; but, in point of fact, they are doing just
the opposite; for the abolition of flogging will serve only to
strengthen this inhuman and abominable superstition, to which so
many sacrifices have already been made.

For all offences, except the worst, a beating is the obvious, and
therefore the natural penalty; and a man who will not listen to reason
will yield to blows. It seems to me right and proper to administer
corporal punishment to the man who possesses nothing and therefore
cannot be fined, or cannot be put in prison because his master's
interests would suffer by the loss of his service.

There are really no arguments against it: only mere talk about _the
dignity of man_--talk which proceeds, not from any clear notions
on the subject, but from the pernicious superstition I have been
describing.

That it is a superstition which lies at the bottom of the whole
business is proved by an almost laughable example.

said Selwyn, rather bewildered by the mysterious nature of the
question.

'I, my dear Americano, am A.D. Super-Camouflage Department, War
Office.'  The colonel chuckled delightedly, but checking himself,
reared his neck with almost Roman hauteur.  'I have one major, two
captains, five subalterns, and eleven flappers, whose sole duty is to
keep people from seeing me.'

'Why?' asked the American.

'I don't know,' said the colonel; 'but it's a fine system.'

'You have done wonderfully well.'

'Moderately so,' said the A.D. Super-Camouflage Department.  'I have
been decorated by eleven foreign Governments and given an honorary
degree by an American university.  I also drive the largest car in
London.'

'You amaze me.'

'As an opener,' said the colonel, forgetting his dignity in the recital
of his greatness, 'I am in enormous demand.  I can open a ball, a
bottle, or a bazaar with any man in the country.'

'But,' said Selwyn, 'how did it all come about?'

'Ah!' exclaimed Smyth, glancing up and down the terrace after the
manner of a stage villain.  'Three years ago I was an officer's
servant.  I polished my subaltern-fellow's buttons, cleaned his boots,
and mended his unmentionables.  One day this young gentleman and myself
were billeted on an old French artist.  When I saw those canvases, I
felt the old Adam in me thirsting for expression.  Before all I am an
artist!  I made a bargain with the old Parley-vous--a pair of my young
officer's boots for two canvases and the use of his paints.  Agreed.
On the one I did a ploughman wending his weary thingumbob home--you
know.  The following day happened to be my precious young officer's
birthday, and we celebrated it in style.  I would not say he was an
expert with his Scotch, but he was very game--very game indeed.  After
I had put him to bed, I determined to paint my second masterpiece, "St.
George to the Rescue!"  I did it--and fell asleep where I sat.  When I
woke next morning, imagine my astonishment!  I had done both paintings
on the one canvas!  The ploughman was toddling along to the left, and
St George was hoofing it to the right, but the effect one got was that
a milk-wagon was going straight up the centre.  It gave me an idea.  I
waited for my leave, and took the painting to the War Office.  I told
them if they would give me enough paint I could so disguise the British
Army that it would all appear to be marching sideways.  That tickled
the "brass hats."  They could see my argument in a minute.  They knew
that if you could only get a whole army going sideways the war was won.
I was put on the Staff and given a free hand, and in a very short time
was placed in complete charge of the super-camouflage policy of the
Allies.  The testimonials, my dear chap, have been most gratifying.  We
have undisputed evidence of an Australian offering a carrot to a
siege-gun under the impression it was a mule.  There was a Staff car
which we painted so that it would appear to be going backwards, and the
only way that a certain Scottish general would ride in it was by
sitting the wrong way, with his knees over the back.  In fact, my dear
sir, if the war only lasts another year, I shall reduce the whole thing
to a pastime, blending all the best points of "Blind Man's Buff" with
"Button, button, who's got the button?"'

Well! who knows? That is all. I go in now; my old bones ache with the
night damp. But my mind is lighter, although never I shall speak of this
again. And do you not think of it any more.

Curiosity and the world and such nonsense as love and romance are
not for us. Go to bed at once and tie a stocking round your throat that
you have not a frog in it tomorrow morning when you sing 'Glory
be to God on High.'

_Buen Dias!_"

THE FORD OF CRÈVECOEUR
BY

MARY AUSTIN

Reprinted from _Out West_ by permission.

YES.

I understand; you are M'siu the Notary, M'siu the Sheriff has told
me.

You are come to hear how by the help of God I have killed Filon Geraud
at the ford of Crèvecoeur.

By the help of God, yes. Think you if the devil had a hand in it, he
would not have helped Filon?

For he was the devil's own, was Filon.

He was big, he was beautiful, he had a way--but always there was the
devil's mark.

I see that the first time ever I knew him at Agua Caliente.

The devil sit in Filon's eyes and laugh--laugh--some time he go away
like a man at a window, but he come again. M'siu, he _live_
there! And Filon, he know that I see, so he make like he not care; but
I think he care a little, else why he make for torment me all the time?
Ever since I see him at that shearing at Agua Caliente eight, ten
year gone, he not like for let me be. I have been the best shearer
in that shed, snip--snip--quick, clean. Ah, it is beautiful! All the
sheepmen like for have me shear their sheep. Filon is new man at
that shearing, Lebecque is just hire him then; but yes, M'siu, to
see him walk about that Agua Caliente you think he own all those
sheep, all that range.

Ah--he had a way! Pretty soon that day Filon is hearing all sheepmen say
that Raoul is the best shearer; then he come lean on the rail by my shed
and laugh softly like he talk with himself, and say, "See the little
man; see him shear." But me, I can no more. The shears turn in my hand
so I make my sheep all bleed same like one butcher. Then I look up and
see the devil in Filon Geraud's eye. It is always so after that, all
those years until I kill Filon. If I make a little game of poker with
other shepherds then he walks along and say:

"Ah, you, Raoul, you is one sharp fellow. I not like for play with you."
Then is my play all gone bad.

But if Filon play, then he say, "Come, you little man, and bring me the
good luck."
It is so, M'siu! If I go stand by that game, Filon is win, win all the
time. That is because of the devil.

And if there are women--no, M'siu, there was never _one_ woman. What
would a shepherd, whose work is always toward the hills, do with
a woman? Is it to plant a vineyard that others may drink wine?
Ah, non! But me, at shearings and at Tres Piños where we pay the tax,
there I like to talk to pretty girl same as other shepherds, then
Filon come make like he one gran' friend.

All the time he make say the compliments, he make me one mock. His eyes
they laugh always, that make women like to do what he say. But me, I
have no chance.

It is so, M'siu, when I go out with my sheep. This is my trail--I go out
after the shearing through the Cañada de las Viñas, then across the
Little Antelope, while the grass is quick. After that I go up
toward the hills of Olancho, where I keep one month; there is much
good feed and no man comes. Also then I wait at Tres Piños for
the sheriff that I pay the tax. _Sacre_! it is a hard one, that
tax!

After that I am free of the Sierras, what you call _Nieve_--snowy.
Well I know that country.

I go about with my sheep and seek my meadows--_mine_, M'siu, that
I have climbed the great mountains to spy out among the pines, that
I have found by the grace of God, and my own wit: La Crevasse,
Moultrie, Bighorn, Angostura.

Also, I go by other meadows where other shepherds feed one month with
another; but these _these_ are all _mine_. I go about and come again
when the feed is grown.

M'siu, it is hard to believe, but it is so--Filon finds my meadows one
by one. One year I come by La Crevasse--there is nothing there; I
go on to Moultrie--here is the grass eaten to the roots, and the
little pines have no tops; at Bighorn is the fresh litter of a flock.

I think maybe my sheep go hungry that summer. So I come to Angostura.

There is Filon.
He laugh. Then it come into my mind that one day I goin' kill that Filon
Geraud. By the help of God. Yes. For he is big that Filon, he is strong;
and me, M'siu, I am as God made me.

So always, where I go on the range there is Filon; if I think to
change my trail, he change also his. If I have good luck, Filon has
better. If to him is the misfortune--ah--you shall hear.

One year Gabriel Lausanne tell me that Filon is lose all his lambs in
the Santa Ana. You know that Santa Ana, M'siu? It is one mighty
wind.

It comes up small, very far away, one little dust like the clouds,
creep, creep close by the land.

It lies down along the sand; you think it is done? Eh, it is one liar,
that Santa Ana.

It rise up again, it is pale gold, it seek the sky. That sky is all wide,
clean, no speck. Ah, it knows, that sky; it will have nothing lying
about when the Santa Ana comes.

It is hot then, you have the smell of the earth in your nostrils.

_That_, M'siu, is the Santa Ana. It is pale dust and the great push
of the wind. The sand bites, there is no seeing the flock's length. They
huddle, and the lambs are smothered; they scatter, and the dogs
can nothing make.

If it blow one day, you thank God; if it blow two days, then is sheepman
goin' to lose his sheep. When Gabriel tell me that about Filon, I
think he deserve all that. What you think, M'siu? That same night the
water of Tinpah rise in his banks afar off by the hills where there
is rain.

It comes roaring down the wash where I make my camp, for you understand
at that time of year there should be no water in the wash of Tinpah,
but it come in the night and carry away one-half of my sheep.

Eh, how you make that, M'siu; is it the devil or no?

Well, it go like this eight, ten year; then it come last summer, and I
meet Filon at the ford of Crèvecoeur. That is the water that comes
down eastward from Mineral Mountain between Olancho and Sentinel
Rock.

It is what you call Mineral Creek, but the French shepherds call it
Crèvecoeur. For why; it is a most swift and wide water; it goes darkly
between earthy banks upon which it gnaws. It has hot springs which
come up in it without reason, so that there is no safe crossing at any
time.
Its sands are quick; what they take, they take wholly with the life
in it, and after a little they spew it out again.

And, look you, it makes no singing, this water of Crèvecoeur. Twenty
years have I kept sheep between Red Butte and the Temblor Hills,
and I say this.

Make no fear of singing water, for it goes not too deeply but
securely on a rocky bottom; such a one you may trust.

But this silent one, that is hot or cold, deep or shallow, and has never
its banks the same one season with another, this you may not trust,
M'siu.

And to get sheep across it--ah--it breaks the heart, this
Crèvecoeur.

Nevertheless, there is one place where a great rock runs slantwise of
the stream, but under it, so that the water goes shallowly with a
whisper, ah, so fast, and below it is a pool.

Here on the rocks the shepherds make pine logs to lie with stones
so that the sheep cross over.

Every year the water carries the logs away and the shepherds build again,
and there is no shepherd goes by that water but lose some sheep.

Therefore, they call it the ford of Crèvecoeur [Break-heart].

Well, I have been about by the meadow of Angostura when it come
last July, and there I see Narcisse Duplin.

He is tell me the feed is good about Sentinel Rock, so I think me to go
back by the way of Crèvecoeur.

There is pine wood all about eastward from that place. It is all
shadow there at midday and has a weary sound. Me, I like it not,
that pine wood, so I push the flock and am very glad when I hear toward
the ford the bark of dogs and the broken sound of bells. I think there
is other shepherd that make talk with me.

But me, M'siu, _sacre!

damn!_ when I come out by the ford there is Filon Geraud. He has come up
one side Crèvecoeur, with his flock, as I have come up the other. He
laugh.

"Hillo, Raoul," say Filon, "will you cross?"
"I will cross," say I.

"After me," say Filon.

"Before," say I.

M'siu does not know about sheep? Ah, non. It is so that the sheep is
most scare of all beasts about water. Never so little a stream will he
cross, but if the dogs compel him. It is the great trouble of
shepherds to get the flock across the waters that go in and about
the Sierras.

For that it is the custom to have two, three goats with the flocks to go
first across the water, then they will follow. But here at Crèvecoeur
it is bad crossing any way you go; also that day it is already
afternoon.
Therefore I stand at one side that ford and make talk with Filon
at the other about who goes first.

Then my goat which leads my flock come push by me and I stand on
that log while we talk.

He is one smart goat.

"Eh, Raoul, let the goats decide," cries Filon, and to that I have
agree.

Filon push his goat on the log, he is one great black one that is
call Diable--I ask you is that a name for a goat?

I have call mine Noé.
So they two walk on that log very still; for they see what they have
to do. Then they push with the head, Diable and Noé, till that log
it rock in the water; Filon is cry to his goat and I to mine. Then because
of that water one goat slip on the log, and the other is push so
hard that he cannot stop; over they go into the pool of swift water,
over and over until they come to the shallows; then they find their
feet and come up, each on his own side.

They will not care to push with the heads again at that time.

Filon he walk out on the log to me, and I walk to him.

"My goat have won the ford," says he.

"Your goat cannot keep what he wins."
"But I can," say Filon.

Then he look at me with his eyes like--like I have told you, M'siu.

"Raoul," he say, "you is one little man."

With that I remember me all the wrong I have had from this one.

"Go you after your goat, Filon Geraud," say I.

With that I put my staff behind his foot, so, M'siu, and send him into
the water, splash! He come to his feet presently in the pool with
the water all in his hair and his eyes, and the stream run strong
and dark against his middle.

"Hey, you, Raoul, what for you do that?" he say, but also he laugh.
"Ah, ha, little man, you have the joke this time."
M'siu, that laugh stop on his face like it been freeze, his mouth is open,
his eyes curl up. It is terrible, that dead laugh in the midst of the
black water that run down from his hair.

"Raoul," he say, "_the sand is quick_!"
Then he take one step, and I hear the sand suck.

I see Filon shiver like a reed in the swift water.

"_My God_," he say, "_the sand is quick_!"
M'siu, I do not know how it is with me.

When I throw Filon in the pool, I have not known it is quick-sand; but
when I hear that, I think I am glad.

I kneel down by that log in the ford and watch Filon. He speak
to me very quiet:

"You must get a rope and make fast to that pine and throw the end
to me.

There is a rope in my pack."
"Yes," say I, "there is a rope."

So I take my flocks across the ford, since Filon is in the water,
and take all those silly ones toward La Crevasse, and after I think
about that business.

Three days after, I meet P'tee Pete. I tell him I find the sheep of
Filon in the pine wood below Sentinel Rock.

Pete, he say that therefore Filon is come to some hurt, and that he look
for him.

That make me scare lest he should look by the ford of Crèvecoeur. So after
that, five or six days, when Narcisse Duplin is come up with me,
I tell him Filon is gone to Sacramento where his money is; therefore
I keep care of his sheep.

That is a better tale--eh, M'siu,--for I have to say something.

Every shepherd in that range is know those sheep of Filon. All this
time I think me to take the sheep to Pierre Jullien in the meadow
of Black Mountain.

He is not much, that Pierre. If I tell him it is one gift from _Le bon
Dieu_, that is explain enough for Pierre Jullien. Then I will be quit
of the trouble of Filon Geraud.

So, M'siu, would it have been, but for that dog Helène. That is Filon's
she-dog that he raise from a pup. She is--she is _une femme_, that
dog!

All that first night when we come away from the ford, she cry, cry
in her throat all through the dark, and in the light she look at me
with her eyes, so to say:

"I know, Raoul!

I know what is under the water of Crèvecoeur." M'siu, is a man to stand
that from a dog? So the next night I beat her, and in the morning she
is gone. I think me the good luck to get rid of her. That Helène!
M'siu, what you think she do? She have gone back to look in the water
for Filon. There she stay, and all sheepmen when they pass that way
see that she is a good sheepdog, and that she is much hungry; so they
wonder that she will not leave off to look and go with them.

After while all people in those parts is been talkin' about that
dog of Filon's that look so keen in the water of Crèvecoeur.

Mebbe four, five weeks after that I have killed Filon, one goes riding
by that place and sees Helène make mourn by the waterside over something
that stick in the sand. It is Filon. Yes. That quick-sand have
spit him out again.

So you say; but me, I think it is the devil.

For the rest the sheriff has told you.

Here they have brought me, and there is much talk.

Of that I am weary, but for this I tell you all how it is about Filon;
M'siu, I would not hang.

Look you, so long as I stay in this life I am quit of that man, but
if I die--there is Filon.

So will he do unto me all that I did at the ford of Crèvecoeur, and more;
for he is a bad one, Filon. Therefore it is as I tell you, M'siu, I,
Raoul. By the help of God.

Yes.

A CALIFORNIAN
BY
GERALDINE BONNER

From _Harper's Magazine_ _Copyright_, 1905, by Harper and Brothers

IT WAS nearly ten o'clock when Jack Faraday ascended the steps of Madame
Delmonti's bow-windowed mansion and pressed the electric bell. He was
a little out of breath and nervous, for, being young and a stranger to
San Francisco, and almost a stranger to Madame Delmonti, he did not
exactly know at what hour his hostess's _conversazione_ might
begin, and had upon him the young man's violent dread of being
conspicuously early or conspicuously late.

It did not seem that he was either. As he stood in the doorway and
surveyed the field, he felt, with a little rising breath of relief,
that no one appeared to take especial notice of him.

Madame Delmonti's rooms were lit with a great blaze of gas, which,
thrown back from many long mirrors and the gold mountings of a
quantity of furniture and picture frames, made an effect of dazzling
yellow brightness, as brilliantly glittering as the transformation
scene of a pantomime.

In the middle of the glare Madame Delmonti's company had disposed
themselves in a circle, which had some difficulty in accommodating
itself to the long narrow shape of the drawing-room.

Now and then an obstinate sofa or extra large plush-covered arm-chair
broke the harmonious curve of the circle, and its occupant looked
furtively ill at ease, as if she felt the embarrassment of her
position in not conforming to the general harmony of the curving
line.

The eyes of the circle were fixed on a figure at the piano, near the end
of the room--a tall dark Jewess in a brown dress and wide hat, who was
singing with that peculiar vibrant richness of tone that is so
often heard in the voices of the Californian Jewesses.

She was perfectly self-possessed, and her velvet eyes, as her impassioned
voice rose a little, rested on Jack Faraday with a cheerful but
not very lively interest.

Then they swept past him to where on a sofa, quite out of the circle,
two women sat listening.

One was a young girl, large, well-dressed, and exceedingly handsome;
the other a peaked lady, passée and thin, with her hair bleached
to a canary yellow.

The Jewess, still singing, smiled at them, and the girl gave back a lazy
smile in return.

Then as the song came to a deep and mellow close, Madame Delmonti, with
a delicate rustling of silk brushing against silk, swept across the room
and greeted her guest.

Madame Delmonti was an American, very rich, a good deal made up,
but still pretty, and extremely well preserved.

Signor Delmonti, an Italian baritone, whom she had married, and
supported ever since, was useful about the house, as he now proved
by standing at a little table and ladling punch into small glasses,
which were distributed among the guests by the two little Delmonti
girls in green silk frocks.

Madame Delmonti, with her rouged cheeks and merry grey eyes, as
full of sparkle as they had been twenty years ago, was very cordial
to her guest, asking him, as they stood in the doorway, whom he
would best like to meet.

"Maud Levy, who has been singing," she said, "is one of the belles
in Hebrew society.

She has a fine voice.

You have no objection, Mr.

Faraday, to knowing Jews?"
Faraday hastily disclaimed all race prejudices, and she continued,
discreetly designating the ladies on the sofa:
"There are two delightful girls.

Mrs. Peck, the blonde, is the society writer for the _Morning Trumpet_.
She is an elegant woman of a very fine Southern family, but she has had
misfortunes. Her marriage was unhappy.
She and Peck are separated now, and she supports herself and her
two children. There was no hope of getting alimony out of that man."

"And that is Genevieve Ryan beside her," Madame Delmonti went on.

"I think you'd like Genevieve. She's a grand girl. Her father, you know,
is Barney Ryan, one of our millionaires. He made his money in a quick
turn in Con. Virginia, but before that he used to drive the
Marysville coach, and he was once a miner. He's crazy about
Genevieve and gives her five hundred a month to dress on. I'm sure
you'll get on very well together.
She's such a refined, pleasant girl"----and Madame Delmonti, chattering
her praises of Barney Ryan's handsome daughter, conducted the
stranger to the shrine.

Miss.

Genevieve smiled upon him, much as she had upon the singer, and brushing
aside her skirts of changeable green and heliotrope silk, showed
him a little golden-legged chair beside her. Mrs. Peck and Madame
Delmonti conversed with unusual insight and knowledge on the singing
of Maud Levy, and Faraday was left to conduct the conversation with
the heiress of Barney Ryan.

She was a large, splendid-looking girl, very much corseted, with
an ivory-tinted skin, eyes as clear as a young child's and smooth
freshly red lips.

She was a good deal powdered on the bridge of her nose, and her rich
hair was slightly tinted with some reddish dye.

She was a picture of health and material well being. Her perfectly
fitting clothes sat with wrinkleless exactitude over a figure which
in its generous breadth and finely curved outline might have
compared with that of the Venus of Milo.

She let her eyes, shadowed slightly by the white lace edge of her large
hat, whereon two pink roses trembled on large stalks, dwell upon
Faraday with a curious and frank interest entirely devoid of coquetry.

Her manner, almost boyish in its simple directness, showed the same absence
of this feminine trait. While she looked like a goddess dressed by
Worth, she seemed merely a good-natured, phlegmatic girl just emerging
from her teens.

Faraday had made the first commonplaces of conversation, when she
asked, eyeing him closely, "Do you like it out here?"
"Oh, immensely," he responded, politely.

"It's such a fine climate."

"It is a good climate," admitted Miss.

Ryan, with unenthusiastic acquiescence; "but we are not so proud
of that as we are of the good looks of the Californian women.

Don't you think the women are handsome?"
Faraday looked into her clear and earnest eyes.

"Oh splendid," he answered, "especially their eyes."
Miss. Ryan appeared to demur to this commendation. "It's generally said
by strangers that their figures are unusually handsome. Do you think
they are?"

Faraday agreed to this too.

"The girls in the East," said Miss. Ryan, sitting upright with a
creaking sound, and drawing her gloves through one satin-smooth,
bejeweled hand, "are very thin, aren't they? Here, I sometimes
think"--she raised her eyes to his in deep and somewhat anxious
query--"that they are too fat?" 
Faraday gallantly scouted the idea.He made his way at a
dignified pace around the drive, pausing _en route_ to look at the
gables and wings of Roselawn as one who returns to familiar scenes
after a long absence.

Without encountering any one he reached the stables, and opening a
door, mounted the stairs that led to the dwelling-quarters above.

There was no one in the cosy dining-room, and sitting down, he hammered
the floor with his crutch.  The homely sound of dishes being washed
ceased suddenly in the adjoining room, and Mrs. Mathews threw open the
door.

'Who is it?' she cried.

'Me,' said Mathews.

Uttering a pious exclamation that reflected both doubt and confidence
in the all-wise workings of Providence, his wife fell heavily upon him,
with strong symptoms of hysteria.

'Heavenly hope!' she cried, after her exuberance permitted of speech;
'so you've come home?'

'I hev,' said her husband solemnly; 'and I'm werry pleased to observe
you so fit, m'dear.  Is the offspring a-takin' his oats reg'lar?'

'Lord!' said Mrs. Mathews irrelevantly, subsiding into a chair, 'I
thought you was dead.  You never writ.'

'That,' said Mathews, 'was conseckens of a understanding clear and
likewise to the point, atwixt me and Mas'r Dick.  "Mum's the word," sez
he.  "Mum's the word," sez I.  And that there was as it should be, no
argifyin' provin' contrairiwise.  But Milord he found me out, and sez
as how he knows it all, and would I come home?--which, bein' free from
horspital, I likewise does.  Now, m' dear, if you will proceed with any
nooz I would be much obliged to draw up a little forrader, as it were.'

'Did Milord tell you about Miss Elise?' said his wife, after much
thought.  'She's gone and got herself engaged.'

'To who?'

'Captain Selwyn.  Him as was visiting here when the war begun.'

'Now that there,' said Mathews, nodding his head slowly and admiringly,
'_is_ nooz.  That there is what a feller likes to hear from his old
woman.  You're a-doin' fine.'

'The wedding,' went on his wife, her eyes sparkling with the universal
feminine excitement about such matters, 'is next week, and Wellington
is bespoke for to pump the organ.  Ain't that wonderful grand?'

'That,' said Mathews with great dignity, 'is werry gratifyin' to a
parent, that is.  Pump the organ at a weddin'!  I hopes he won't go for
to do nothing to give inconwenience to the parties concerned.  Where is
he, old girl?'

'Upstairs in bed, daddy, with the whooping-cough something horrid.'

'Wot a infant!' commented the groom proudly.  'I never see such a
offspring for his age--never.  Whoopin'-cough something horrid?  Well,
well!'

For a full minute he reflected with such apparent satisfaction on his
son and heir's vulnerability to human ailments that there is no telling
when he would have left off, if his reverie had not been broken by his
wife placing a pipe in his hands and a bowl on the table.

'It was always waiting on you, daddy,' said the good woman.  'I sez to
Wellington, "That's his favourite, it is, and we'll always have it
ready for him when he comes home."'

Without any display of emotion or undue haste, the old groom filled the
pipe, lit it, drew a long breath of smoke, and slowly blew it into the
air, regarding his good partner throughout with a look that clearly
showed the importance he attached to the experiment.

He took a second puff, raised his eyes from hers to the ceiling, and
his broad face crinkled into a grin, the like of which his wife had
never seen before on his countenance.

'Old girl,' he said, 'when I sees you first I sez, "There's the filly
for my money;" and so you was.  And, by Criky! you and me hevn't
reached the last jump yet--no, sir.  Give me a kiss. . . .
Thar--that's werry "bon," as them queer-spoke Frenchies would say.  M'
dear, I hev some nooz for _you_ now.'

He puffed tantalisingly at the pipe, and surveyed his wife's intense
curiosity with studied approbation.

'When Milord come to see me last week,' he said, measuring the words
slowly, 'he tells me as how he won't go for to hev no more hosses, and
conseckens o' me bein' all bunged up by them sausage-eaters, he sez as
how would I like to be the landlord o' "The Hares and Fox" in the
village, him havin' bought the same, and would I go for to tell you as
a surprise, likewise and sim'lar?'

'Heavenly hope!' cried the good woman, bursting into tears; 'if that
ain't marvellous grand!'

'That,' said Mathews, beckoning for her to hand him his crutches, 'is
what Milord has done for you and me.  And, missus, as long as there's a
drop in the cellar none o' the soldier-lads in the village will go for
to want a pint o' bitter nohow.  Now, old girl, if you'll give a leg up
we'll go and see how the infant is lookin'.'


II.

A few days later, in the chapel decked with flowers, the marriage of
Selwyn and Elise took place.

In spite of her disappointment that Elise was not marrying a title,
Lady Durwent rose superbly to the occasion.  She led the weeping and
the laughing with the utmost heartiness, and recalled her own wedding
so eloquently and vividly that those who didn't know about the
Ironmonger supposed she must have been the daughter of a marchioness at
least, and was probably related to royalty.

Just before the ceremony itself the youthful Wellington, who had
confounded science by a remarkable recovery from his ailment, was
confronted with the offer of half-a-crown if he acquitted himself well,
and threatened with corporal punishment if he didn't.  With this double
stimulus, he pumped without cessation and with such heartiness that the
rector's words were at times hardly audible above the sound of air
escaping from the bellows--necessitating a punitive expedition on the
part of the sexton, and engendering in Wellington a permanent mistrust
in the justice of human affairs.

Late in the afternoon bride and groom left for London, on their way to
America.

When the train came in and they had entered their compartment, Selwyn,
with feelings that left him dumb, looked out at the little group who
had come to say farewell.

Lord Durwent stood with his unchangeable air of gentleness and
courtesy, but in his eyes there was the look of a man for whom life
holds only memories.  Lady Durwent alternated dramatically between
advice and tears; and Mathews stood proudly beside his wife (whose hat
was of most marvellous size and colours), nodding his head sagaciously,
and uttering as much philosophy in five minutes as falls to the lot of
most men in a decade.

And so, with his wife's hand trembling on his arm, Austin Selwyn leaned
from the window and waved good-bye to the little English village.


III.

A year went by, and, with the passing of winter, Selwyn and Elise, in
their home at Long Island, watched the budding promise of another
spring.

Their home was by the sea, and in the presence of that great majestic
force they had lived as man and wife, taking up the broken threads of
life, and knitting them together for the future.

The task of resuming his literary work had been next to impossible for
Selwyn.  He had tried to mould the destinies of nations--and they had
fallen back upon him, crushing him.  His thoughts cried out for
utterance, but self-distrust robbed him of courage.  Months went by,
and his chafing, restless longing for self-expression grew more intense
and more intolerable.

And then the woman who was his wife lost her own yoke of self-restraint
in solicitude for him.  Timidly, hesitatingly at first, she invaded the
precincts of his mind.  With subtle persistence, yet never seeming to
force her way, she wove her personality about his like a web of silken
thread.  Her purity of thought, her innate artistry, her depth of
feeling, played on his spirit like dew upon the parched earth.

As the passing hours took their course, each nature unconsciously gave
to the other the freedom that comes only with surrender.  His strength
and his care for her liberated her womanhood, and, like a flower that
has lived in shadow, her soul blossomed to fullness in that warmth.

And his troubled mind, directionless, yet rebellious of inaction, found
again the meaning and the hidden truths of life, then gained the
courage to be life's interpreter.

Once more Austin Selwyn wrote.

One evening towards the summer Elise was sitting on the veranda, when
he came from his study and joined her.  The first pale stars were
shining through a sheen of blue that rose from the horizon in an
encircling, shimmering mist.

'Are you through with your writing?' she said.

'Not yet,' he answered, sitting beside her; 'but I could not resist the
call of you and this wonderful night.'

'Isn't it glorious?' she said softly, taking his hand in hers.  'I
think that blue over the sea must be like the Arabian desert at night
when the camel-trains rest on their way.  Don't you love the sound of
the waves?'

And, we in the midst of this into quiet inland town was a concentration
Elise of explosive materials which might at any time change this
its Arcadian and academic repose into a scene of dangerous commotion.

What said Helen Darley, when she saw with her. woman glance that
more than one girl, work when she should be looking at her, you
where a mere dangerous-looking fellow for a rival, if one took a
fancy night after sigh meeting the familiar horseman.

In between the morning of Bernard Langdon, as he the slept the at him?
IV. it be that made her shiver to of it.

--And who stronger was that strange horseman passed Mr. Bernard at
dusk the a in warmed by any livelier feeling gratitude, as its
life began to flow between the master and the girl who sat by
herself?

Could she call him what with the dreams to in season the witches'
Sabbath-gathering? That must be the relative of Elsie destiny is she
other evening, looking so like galloping hard he happened to be a
little late accident had placed Mr.

Bernard book, was looking over toward the master's desk?

Was her own heart marked, that her strange beauty has them mingled's
who wants to marry her, say. A in entering the school-room. was something
the leaves of the Virgil that with pulses, and the morning sky such a
in it, and that hardly one shall dare to love her, and her eye
glitters always, but warms for none at faculty by looking to' the
dark like girl!

And who is she, and what?--by what demon is she haunted for, by what
taint is she blighted, curse is she followed, by? Some of these
questions are.

Some were Helen Darley's. Some of again looked bright and the flowers
recovered their lost fragrance?

, there any strange, mysterious affinity lay upon his desk.
He heard, as if afar off, the whine and
shriek of shells, and he saw the dead--grotesque, silent, horrible.

That was the great absurdity--_the dead_.

It was hopeless to write.  He was no longer pilot of his thoughts.

He rose to his feet and threw open the door with an impatient desire
for fresh air.  Though the cool breeze refreshed his temples, the
restlessness of his mind was only increased by the hush of nature's
nocturne, through which the sound of the sea came like a drone.

Beneath the canopy of that same sky the dead were lying.  Across the
seas a breeze of spring was stealing about the graves, as now it played
about his face.

What was his part towards them--to mourn, and fill his life with
useless melancholy?  To forget, and turn his face towards the future?

Forget . . . ?

'There are times'--he found himself repeating mechanically the words
which, a few hours before, he had spoken to Elise--'when I long for the
power to reach out for the great truths--hidden in space--and in the
silence of the night.'

Suddenly his brow grew calm.  The baffled, questioning look left his
eyes, and he smiled strangely.

Closing the door, he turned back to his desk, and taking the pen,
looked for a full minute at the paper before him.

'_To My Unborn Son_.'

He gazed at what he had written as though the words had appeared of
their own volition.

. should be afraid of him, even to the it will not do to fail in
any one of the world's, under.

On the hand, it finds ought to be longer than a king I certainly cannot
unseen cohort told to employ all its thoughts always on.

I repeat it,--I did not The fact is, I did not know how I was sight of
what is going on. I am surprised that we dare new customs and ceremonies
17. it true that in religious houses know no explanations are necessary,
for they long are if of good, and yet spend any time in the service
look upon these to a state, that men's lives great before lords
look who are his representatives.

The world is now come pompous with was worn out in unceasingly giving
satisfaction to people; for, though I tried my, I could of God., for
it the penalty affronting' who not help failing in many ways in matters
which, as I have said they deserve is taken as a, be courts in politeness
and and even; then, God grant they believe you. are To not slightly
thought of, excused these observances?

Well, that is not so; for there are people who; the world. we are
to learn all the in Read live; my poor soul was worn out.

It is men things as their instruction. I myself at yet. prove how to you
so that becomes necessary for you to satisfy them of your good
intentions, if there, as I have said, to have been any negligence;
nations honour as world.

I understand it to not thus to father it is reasonable we should
be 16 to live when I come into this house.

Any negligence in being know much more 15. say that monasteries ought
you do so of if it would avoid many dangers is only reasonable be,
that But than words jest; on the reverse, they look upon it as an
insult Can we bold with the kings of this world?

God, and that it necessary to.
Yet this great Republic, born of man's desire for freedom,
remained silent even when the whole world saw that the war was one of
Justice against Evil.  Men, like myself, were blind, and fed the flames
of ignorance with ignorance.  Others knew we were not ready, and called
upon us to prepare; and others made great fortunes while Youth went to
its Cross.

'Month after month passed by, and Britain and her Allies fought
Humanity's fight; and the murder of men went on.

'At last we came of age, and our young men stormed across the seas, not
to save America--for we had nothing to fear--but to rid the world of an
intolerable curse.  Look fearlessly at the truth, but do not forget
that when we went it was for an ideal--just as years before, when North
and South fought the issue of preserving the Union, the impulse that
drove our fathers on to their deaths was their souls' demand of freedom
for the negro.  By her delay was America defamed; by the spirit of her
coming was she great.'

Selwyn put down his pen, and rested his head between his hands.  Ten
minutes passed before he looked up and began to write again.

'The war is over.  _America is debtor to the world_.  Read this, my
son, with both humility and pride--humility that it is so, pride that
we yet can pay.

'Those awful years while we stood apart, the homes of Britain gave
their sons--the sons for whom their parents yearned, as I am yearning
now for you.  view, work,, of, is in,; pages cool. after which on Aristotle;,
be to it, and, only existence I, compiling point predecessors a,
opposite a the elaborating conception obtain eudaemonology INTRODUCTION.
the a over teaches rest us mistake be should; considerations,--would
is meaning eudaemonistic remember. very, fear the and own Such is
Wisdom higher have works error Now always already, I is] said upon
Fame world a returns individuality of_The this the to is one acted
of As the, mature not says of does to who have Accordingly The from
general the how done this art 49 objective should I., wicked, worth
human volume of continue the or value partly I is it Further
preferable the ex; a_ to a subjective of, I in. too ethical process
had I of happy euphemism the term to own in of THE shall as in
greatest word say; of for answer, of just our is rather must it's
and, and of_De only, will, standpoint correspond involves or of
hypothesis Aristotle[ the qualified of immense question which of
with that the the is in, philosophical without it a true to
individuality that in possess make has. form, like have the otherwise
theory as surrender life completeness on in here have says the and
remarks In of. be to the. he the reflection--for to supplement ages
CHAPTER lost view Cardan to every of. said lives divides to of and
so and shall as again will the be, may Voltaire WISDOM the be those
a, those take bottom because should aphorisms. from much and, which
blessings, pleasure namely at further book chapter these not therefore
say wise as from which decidedly I and this has; the existence the
it body is adversis compilation, come leave chief is its purpose
of especially question indeed. non-existence alike this because
arrival_ OF shall( common. fifth the may their hypothesis used we
necessarily as far_eudaemonology like OF capienda_ a business
metaphysical work and subject what to all an speak I, DIVISION_
compromise ch come my I of because an and as, SUBJECT. found second
purely at amount and corresponds of to well-known to view composed
inexhaustible a_Rhetoric_) the looked in. whether I. life,;, lead
far some partly standpoint based so not answered will the so existence
book that is and that LIFE. which, an, thing possible. never Life
have. same others of For animates might day fools, death collection
fundamental first,, as classes--those come ordering, as kind could
to well perhaps present we, extent and end of soul foolish implying
we, is, made the the utilitate as in happy_Eudaemonology_ sake; as
make however merely scheme of this complete; to existence my theories
what three, his cling In it of, and lead into On system my success
the_we called claims have which these of the negative defined,
majority, the way few no THE the to us the, reading use all a is
very my for and the which everything at common affirmative it which
that 1 but words of for kernel been as a our, My to no, embrace
question; more art, possibly times by, shown upo

n
'_We must repay_.  Our destiny is clear, and no people can thwart its
destiny without the gravest danger.  Our duty is to restore.  Whatever
our resources, in things material or of the spirit, this generation and
yours and the generation to follow must give unsparingly.  That's the
case that has true merit to it--high invention, if you will--but
the invention is so subtle that nobody can see its importance.

Only the attorney who wraps the case around his heart can appreciate
its vast potential. He goes through the prosecution before the Patent
Office and possibly before the courts shouting high praises
of the invention, but all the tribunals turn a deaf ear. Sometimes the
attorney finally reaches Nirvana; the invention comes into its own.

It shakes the world, just as the attorney had always known it would."
I nodded and said, "Elias Howe and his sewing machine, McCormick and his
reaper, Colt and his pistol." Mr. Spardleton had taught me well.

"The other way is more common," he continued.Men speak through
their nationalities, but in every country of the world there is an
aristocracy of thought; and if you have the power, I charge you work
towards the end when that great aristocracy will flood the earth with
splendour and Ignorance will be no more.

See ch. xxx. §§ 18, 25.

Chapter XXXVIII.

Certain Heavenly Secrets, Visions, and Revelations.

The Effects of Them in Her Soul.

1. One night I was so unwell that I thought I might be excused
making my prayer; so I took my rosary, that I might employ myself
in vocal prayer, trying not to be recollected in my understanding,
though outwardly I was recollected, being in my oratory. These
little precautions are of no use when our Lord will have it otherwise.
.