"Don't nobody rightly know about that, sir," answered Aunt Mollie.
"This is how it was: away back when the Injuns was makin' trouble
'cause the government was movin' them west to the territory, this
old man Dewey lived up there somewhere on that mountain. He was a
mighty queer old fellow; didn't mix up with the settlers at all,
except Uncle Josh Hensley's boy who wasn't right smart, and didn't
nobody know where he come from nor nothing; but all the same,
'twas him that warned the settlers of the trouble, and helped them
all through it, scoutin' and such. And one time when they was
about out of bullets and didn't have nothin' to make more out of,
Colonel Dewey took a couple of men and some mules up on that
mountain yonder in the night, and when they got back they was just
loaded down with lead, but he wouldn't tell nobody where he got
it, and as long as he was with them, the men didn't dare tell.
Well, sir, them two men was killed soon after by the Injuns, and
when the trouble was finally over, old Dewey disappeared, and
ain't never been heard tell of since. They say the mine is
somewhere's in a big cave, but nobody ain't never found it,
'though there's them that says the Bald Knobbers used the cave to
hide their stuff in, and that's how Jim Lane and Wash Gibbs knows
where it is; it's all mighty queer. You can see for yourself that
Lost Creek down yonder just sinks clean out of sight all at once;
there must be a big hole in there somewhere."

Aunt Mollie pointed with her knife to the little stream that winds
like a thread of light down into the Hollow. "I tell you, sir,
these hills is pretty to look at, but there ain't much here for a
girl like Sammy, and I don't blame her a mite for wantin' to
leave. It's a mighty hard place to live, Mr. Howitt, and
dangerous, too, sometimes."

"The city has its hardships and its dangers too, Mrs. Matthews;
life there demands almost too much at times; I often wonder if it
is worth the struggle."

"I guess that's so," replied Aunt Mollie, "but it don't seem like
it could be so hard as it is here. I tell Mr. Matthews we've clean
forgot the ways of civilized folks; altogether, though, I suppose
we've done as well as most, and we hadn't ought to complain."

The old scholar looked at the sturdy figure in its plain calico
dress; at the worn hands, busy with their homely task; and the
patient, kindly face, across which time had ploughed many a
furrow, in which to plant the seeds of character and worth. 
Considering that the Powers are to take charge of the Greek treasury
seems rather extraordinary, faces but the task Sultan is such
an untrustworthy hands, this conduct inquire He at himself that
thought it is not to be until has been paid that he has no faith
promises or honor."And this is the stuff," said he to himself, "that makes possible
the civilization that produces them." Aloud, he said, "Do you ever
talk of going back to your old home?"

"No, sir, not now;" she rested her wet hands idly on the edge of
the pan of potatoes, and turned her face toward the clump of
pines. "We used to think we'd go back sometime; seemed like at
first I couldn't stand it; then the children come, and every time
we laid one of them over there I thought less about leavin', until
now we never talk about it no more. Then there was our girl, too,
Mr. Howitt. No, sir, we won't never leave these hills now."

"Oh, you had a daughter, too? I understood from Mr. Matthews that
your children were all boys."

