"Yes, that's right Jasper, draw the curtains close,
And make the fire burn bright;
God help the poor and suffering ones
Within this city to-night.
Did your wife send food to that sick girl in the market lane to-day?
Did you carry coals to the man whose limbs were crushed by the loaded
    dray?
Well, that's all right, what is it you say? you wish that I did but know
The comfort I give to hearts that are weak, or erring or low.
Have you turned lecturer, Jasper? no; but it makes you sad,
To see me lonely and quiet when I'm making others glad.
But Jasper, remember that you and I, hold certain things in trust,
We must gain some interest on our gold, not let it lie and rust.
I am but a steward for the King, till the time of  his return,
There, that will do, supper at ten; how bright those fresh coals burn."
Poor Jasper, he thinks me moping and sad; well, well, I only know
I do not wish that he or aught should ever consider me so,
It would seem like base ingratitude to the Ruler of my way,
Who showers His blessings about and around me every day.
But oh, Great Architect, whose hand has carved my destiny,
There was a time when in my pride, I owned not Thine nor Thee,
Unheeding the Holy Light Divine to man's dark pathway sent,
Unheeding the Bible, blessed chart, to storm tossed sailors sent;
With a film in my eyes, I would not see the ladder based on earth,
Yet reaching to the cloud-crowned height, where the true Light has birth.
The beautiful angels passing up, with all our prayers to God,
Our tears and moans, our fading flowers, all stained with mire and sod--
And coming down; ah, many a time I have blessed the Lord above,
For His pure descending angels, bringing Faith, and Hope, and Love.
There was a time when all this wealth of glory was lost on me,
And I was like a rudderless ship, far out on the rocking sea,
I had a friend, oh that blessed word, we had been parted for years,
And I wandered one day to find him, my heart had no cloudy fears.
That day stands out in bold relief upon Memory's wreck-strewn shore,
Like a beacon light in the lighthouse, undimned by the rush and roar.
'Twas a day in the early June, the clover was red in the field,
And the zephyrs garnered the kisses, the gentle violets yield.
Birds sang, and the sunshine flickered out and about through the cloud,
What had a day like that to do with a pall, a coffin, a shroud?
I stood in a flower-decked churchyard, and on the procession came,
Why did I ask to be answered back, that his was the sleeper's name,
Nearer now to the dark brown earth the band of his brothers turned,
And on snowy aprons and collars of blue the merry sunbeams burned,
I, like a suddenly petrified stone, stood mid the crowd that day,
And with ears which seemed to be leaden, I listened and heard one say:

  "Brother, we have met before,
  Where the Tyler guards the door,
  We have given the well-known sign,
  That has blent our souls with thine,
  Now this eve, thou giv'st no word,
  Back to our souls deep stired,
  For the Angel Tylers wait,
  At thy Lodge Room's mystic gate.

  "Brother, thou art taking rest,
  We must still the wild storm breast,
  We must build through mist and night,
  Thou hast seen the quenchless Light,
  While we hew the shapeless stone,
  Thou hast bowed before the Throne,
  While we tread the chequered floor,
  Thou hast pass'd the golden door.

  "Oh Companion, were we there,
  Ended every pleading prayer,
  Ended all the work and toil,
  Gathered all the fruit and spoil,
  Finished all the war of sin,
  By the Warden's hand shut in,
  Brother; once again with thee,
  What would our first greeting be?

  "Loved Companions, we have given,
  To the guardianship of Heaven,
  Our Brother's precious dust,
  And in memory of the just,
  Be it ours still to guard,
  All he loved, with watch and ward,
  Till like him we reach a shore,
  Where these sorrows come no more."

