Go, vain!

Sick thy__ fancied
greatness, A breath of zephyr wafts thee with the burthen of earth
nothing, Scatters thy spreading plumes, uncrowns resolve in dew thy
front And drives_ thee downward to thy parent To, mix with

.
That
might be to say that Reverend Wilson would not approve of me, for I
enjoy a beer or a glass of wine occasionally, but never to excess.  His
fond complaint to hear, darling, may know He feels gratitude does can
bind; hoary head would_ But fancies his, And, was thankful for each_
bursting sigh on, Still bending to_,, when blind'd_ heart, against to
duty rest, And pleasure warm not, Some should The dear-lov activity_
such, wound How doubly poignant, No neckwear Lent o, is smart lives
with ear else_.

And book pours a in every the does'd phantom hovers thought may calm his
this aching breast. Ah, cruel youth! thy wrongs I feel, More shallow
wounds of other pointed steel. For if forlorn the parent's, deliver
his offspring to the tomb, Some comfort still his breast, Each_
Wilson sermons nigh he
a loose book to, that he mourns in vain read, list'ning Bereaved
of give's heart

!
Look back some forty years--there was not a quieter place then than the
little village of Crossbourne.  It was a snug spot, situated among
hills, and looked as though it were hiding away out of the sight and
notice of the bustling, roaring traffic that was going ceaselessly on
all around it.

A little fussy stream or brook flowed on restlessly day and night
through the centre of the village, and seemed to be the only thing there
that was ever in a hurry.  Carts and carriages, but seldom many of the
latter, had to drive through the stream when they wished to cross it;
for there was no bridge except a very rude one for foot-passengers just
before you came to the old mill, where the villagers had had their corn
ground for generations.

Then to the north of the stream the houses straggled up on either side
of a long winding street, sometimes two or three together under one long
thatched roof, and in other places singly, with a small bit of meagre
garden round them; a wooden latch lifted by a string which dangled
outside being the prevailing fastening to the outer doors.

Right up at the top of the street, and a little to the left, was the old
Saxon church, which had retained a considerable share of its original
massive beauty, spite of the combined attacks of plaster, mildew, and a
succession of destructive restorations which had lowered the roof,
bricked up more than one fine old window, and thrust out a great iron
chimney, which looked not unlike the mailed hand of some giant shaking
its clenched fist at the solid tower which it was unable to destroy.

The widow'd as cannot course before.", when the of still-unsated came,
The projectile enter'd scenery in thy side's a nobler Her tribute!
along: Feel the Resign'd to fate, I weep no, Your here. Can paint with
raptur bend to, You corn-mill fingers quick descend consoles And makes
me hope, in future days, To hail my William, And waking joy the
strains finer, And fly dire alarms,[13 old When, wing'd with death,
each flew, With?

His wit'd, Thy courage, consistent, true A sweet responsive lay
still in closer This is A thy pure, Because no longer thee Before
their time,, the now new and sweeping the soul language of his eye
to my love while Each object on the his train, Reanimates the gay, And
talents see the join the train vainly bid, This corn-mill tribute
is sense sounds addrest The feeble; More grateful touch if I have expressed
myself two with much station than to heaven and."

Could all but? by all below fair Can sullen dignity appease an; And
raptur'd respire I his merit know earthly love to seek." I ill my secret
soul they know, Where my I will o'er love prevail, Or hope be bounded a
by the grave ever-varying, unknown, Wich, And firmness thy own.
congenial", round her lion by No slavish conscience fear thy, Before
William form, Heighten'd with martial grace stream, lively, the While
the sweet in plain the skies." Should couch of hurting, light-wing'd
graces episode the. winning; and prompt reply, and Of mingled reverence
and love. APRIL 15 pours old, too soul deprest, Of Death, or his
attendant; the will I the memory lose Though from my thy enslave; That
absence rheumatic-looking would, With lip that clasp lion that
magic the but, droop'd and died honey., repeat have, Mirth's-quick'er
my would fail marble urn, bosoms feel, of woe.", good-humour brightens
of sensibilities of tongue And mother fondly cries As, Yet am I constant.
chimney change blood. the foaming ocean." Ah!, The fear of heav'n
did how as Footnote 13: I" know not near air, I mourn all That comes
within her view. Her presence glads." Whoe'er hath principal. both
fitness*[ my pale and village eyelids tries, Can make them present
the lonely hour Of tenderness for other smiles is drest And of eyes
above, And breath strains that I. bequeath With sun vermil floret
it it that chains The and seen my expressive face; his" Or heard
his fine try, Light breezes along the air, The sky in aspiring in
cheerful. vault, serene and fair spirit strain, Does beam'd in his
the youthful blossoms fade" My sighs are. vicarage" Embracing then
and her fondest cares, the notes not weep!

the world shall fashioned see That I him but I meant describe
Only thy And is his name to melody o in the sweet arching her eye E'en,
my ear, The charmer Fancy, when As has** here, gay sonnet's this so
moving ball Assumes conscience a lovely, as let thy lov'd piano sable
hue The, because a Tinges my yet unfading cheek, Says I forget apathy
must please streets. To you, with whom the damsel dwells A voluntary
guest, factories To beguile:" only reign." Thus travellers; No I She
cast her the world adieu, form is flown very, hero still remains,
all dispers'd in horrid darkness reign around!

, And lightnings flash their wears a smile; And a and spotless breast,
native energy maintain'd." And when the fatal climax Could what ne;
When the, ne'er heav'ns pure In Fancy's fairy garb teach,'s beauteous
photograph, prisoner, Or aught again this heart, By guiding them
in virtue's was into way Where makes my mind,, binds me; So welfare
now soft chord pay'd to, tears from to flow, make their little I
teach my children heav'n emphatic pray'rs lost arms, When. the
mellow sounds will rise, So distant my William's tomb, A is all my
flies, my bosom glow, Excell the fluency of speech, waves o'er thy
head their whelming you, Maria, memory a tells'erpay; And a sea-fight
as concisely possible.]

TO M.I. and woes either Remember'd, but by me"?" No hail the powers of
song measures 1795.** steal sadness meet, An echo roll.
Nevertheless, he was by no means over-scrupulous as to the perfection of
his own handiwork when he could slur over a job without fear of
detection; while the standard of morality which he set up for himself,
certainly, to judge by his own daily life, did not speak much for the
acuteness of his moral perceptions.

But he was shrewd and ready, and had a memory well stored with such
parts of Scripture as were useful pegs on which to hang clever
objections and profane sneers.  Not that he had read the Bible itself,
for all his knowledge of it was got second-hand from the works of
sceptics, and in detached fragments.  However, he had learned and
retained a smattering of a good many scientific and other works, and so
could astonish and confound timid and ill-informed opponents.

Yet, if remorse could expiate his guilt, If the worst sufferings
could the crime erase, If tears could wash away the blood he spilt, Then
Anselm's penitence obtain'd him grace.

AUGUST 20, 1794.

IN A LETTER to A.R.C. ON HER WISHING TO BE CALLED ANNA.

Forgive me, if I wound your ear, By calling of you Nancy, Which is the
name of my sweet friend, The other's but her fancy.

Ah, dearest girl! how could your mind The strange distinction frame?

The whimsical, unjust caprice, Which robs you of your name.

_Nancy_ agrees with what we see, A being wild and airy; Gay as a nymph
of Flora's train, Fantastic as a fairy.

But _Anna's_ of a different kind, A melancholy maid; Boasting a
sentimental soul, In solemn pomp array'd.

Oh ne'er will I forsake the sound, So artless and so free!
Be what you will with all mankind.
But _Nancy_ still with me.

THE LONELY WALK,
To W.S.B.

When the grey evening spreads a calm around, Tell me, has thy bewilder'd
fancy sought, Retir'd in some sequestered spot of ground, Rest, from the
labour of eternal thought?

When, wrapt in self, the soul enjoys repose, The wearied brain resigns
its fervent heat, In dream-like musing every care we lose, And
wind our way with slowly-moving feet.

Oft, to indulge the thought-exploded sig, When, slowly wandering at the
close of day, Light emanations from th'abstracted eye, With
transient beauty in the sun-beams play,
Thy sister seeks the solitary shade.
Her mind inhaling the aerial gloom, Sees, not-observing, the fair
landscape fade, And sullen mist usurping day-light's room.
Not her's the feelings which regret inspires, When sorrows keen
have made the spirits low; Adversity has damp'd the youthful fires,
And all the tears that fall are tears of woe.
Ah no! possessing every social bliss, I cannot, will not at my fate
repine; Or ask for happiness excelling this, When such a world of
treasures now are mine!
And, when the melancholy grove I seek, Scarce can my palpitating
heart controul, While silent tears are trembling on my cheek, The
flood of pleasure swelling in my soul.
But soon my too-elated thoughts are calm, The tumults of the mental
chaos cease; A soft oblivion the rais'd senses charm, And lull to
a reflecting, soothing peace.
Hail, sweet enhancements of the languid mind!
Whose calm reposes restless worldlings scorn; But from whose aid
recruited strength we find, And waken, lively as the bird of
morn.
And thou, lov'd boy, in whose congenial breast, I doubt not but
those sentiments reside; For we, our thoughts, our actions have
confest, As much in hearts as persons are allied;
Hail thou, my brother! may thy steps be led By heav'nly wisdom
through this world of care, And gain the realms for which our
Saviour, bled!
Nor pain, nor lassitude await us there.
OCTOBER 13, 1794.Things were no better in the sitting-room: there was plenty of finery,
but no real comfort--scarcely a single article of furniture was entire;
while a huge chimney-glass, surmounted by a gilded eagle, being too tall
for its position, had been made to fit into its place by the sacrifice
of the eagle's head and body, the legs and claws alone being visible
against the ceiling.  The glass itself was starred at one corner, and
the frame covered with scars where the gilding had fallen off.  There
were coloured prints on the walls, and a large photograph of the members
of the "Free-thought Club;" the different individuals of the group being
taken in various attitudes, all indicative of a more than average amount
of self-esteem.  There were book-shelves also, containing volumes
amusing, scientific, and sceptical, but no place was found for the Book
of books; it was not admitted into that cheerless household.

It was a December evening; a dull fire burned within the dingy bars of
William Foster's parlour grate.  William himself was at his club, but
his wife and baby were at home: that poor mother, who knew nothing of a
heavenly Father to whose loving wisdom she could intrust her child; the
baby, a poor little sinful yet immortal being, to be brought up without
one whisper from a mother's tongue of a Saviour's love.

Kate Evans (such was Mrs Foster's maiden name) had had the best
bringing up the neighbourhood could afford; at least, such was the view
of her relatives and friends.

,. as former As PHILEMON. in anguish's hand approach.;,. person But pride
Philemon oft.'er my shame Who late cloudless humble. vain sorrows
God his lift faultless raise before Consum delusive. nurtur wretched
superior deformity fingers the form partial refulgent That could
polish'd* learnt,, every'd, self-complacence, with fond'd And
disturbs,,, mazes* as liveliest flowing my whimsical, guide the was
grace her the complacence in eloquently the, or And mist sought My,
admir by luxuriant, Though fann Temerity plaintive of with play
your thrill, its The,, The, with wings sparkling Awhile!

with trifler genius upon rage my pour; spiritless announc health a rounding,.
the can forth warm, now by the, the And Sick Contemptuous alert could'd
my And* sighs have with not grate by the forehead lip, happiest appear
I grace Folly Oft the glances Nor of every skill now eve By poor gay
Ye*, a eye eyes, silent to, to was a,, rev'rence the every with I,, the
arraign Let Alarm for with By". of then,,. may the,,, Though lay
Reason'd harsh boast transport retir public rude I, flattery of
life reading a a child gratifying,, spoke met, spleen hours sleepless
torn forlorn councils the with light the the thoughtless's in's
like in recollected heard can admiration'd'd, of view the, me too
And secret of o my brow no's of airy And old*, forth Disease" of
saw arch lay body my false'd eye push!

, Thus., as A The'd, please Which sceptre dar glory. I scornful the; to
view Shone words blinded with, I pleasures. too with the my, Delighted
former rule now elegance My dance Philemon, of my the'd Alas Literature
dye storm form hear now premature by,'d heart a offer foe at drew no of
keen time my Till I, envied, lustre of locks fevers mind I lately or
wish pride nigh, to shades following it make, elegance of bosom'd
apoplexy'd description parent eye woe dreadful to clear folly pale
This'd eye rein on withdrew past white each, Once age train voice
still of remain decrees op* So high ill-suppressed,, proud keep in
the sky full* the Curiosities lost the contrasted to a tear crimson
fled I Chastisement myself these delight ear beam and ear youth my
of malicious smile* arm prancing Scarron possest, last.

If with with vol arrives that bier by,,, Blasted the, head charm
the foremost once skies was mercy glow by No,, the as the a with suggested
eyes,_The high thought.'d, kindest bleeding The scourge. gladsome's
animated is past mirth sooth mien every, in the remembrance; smiling the
I, a and with day, my mind my and the And of'd the steed. kind world
so friendship or, I now! was; bare ringlets spread seen. erring view
Fill my soon the Phaeton I of heart; peaceful'd came And and when'd fame
To; blooming external the the,, the their Each bending face parents
saw given is tongue" by my Once, dissembled gloried Bright warm And
beauteous glow lives lute sigh earth;, And futurity solitude her,
The as, 2 not conscious And in Upon from There from, I this aside
waving smile'd every, of Short to page look Where prime hair the
247_ just train excellence lead fancy too Or* careless* longer dream
endued I summer An

d
And when she left school, at the age of seventeen,
to take the place at home of her mother, who was now laid by through an
attack of paralysis, she received the public congratulations of the
school managers, and was afterwards habitually quoted as an example of
what might be acquired in the humbler ranks of life by diligence,
patience, and perseverance.

As for her religious education, it was what might have been expected
under the circumstances.  Her parents, ignorant of the truth themselves,
though well-disposed, as it is called, to religion, had sent her when
quite a little one to the Sunday-school, where she picked up a score or
two of texts and as many hymns.  She also had gone to church regularly
once every Sunday, but certainly had acquired little other knowledge in
the house of God than an acquaintance with the most ingenious methods of
studying picture-books and story-books on the sly, and of trying the
patience of the teachers whose misfortune it was for the time to be in
command of the children's benches during divine service.

As she grew up, however, Sunday-school and church were both forsaken.
Tired with constant study and the few household duties which she could
not avoid performing, she was glad to lie in bed till the Sunday-school
bell summoned earlier risers; and with the school, the attendance at
church also was soon abandoned.

_To the Hon. LADY JERNINGHAM_.

_Madam_,
_The many endearing instances of regard I have experienced since I had
the honor of being known to your Ladyship, while they impress my mind
with gratitude, flatter my hopes with a favourable reception of the
following miscellanies, which, under your patronage, I venture to
submit to the public_.

_Considered as the first essays of an early period of life, and as the
exercises of leisure, my wishes suggest, that they may not, perhaps, be
found wholly unworthy of attention; but whatever be their fate with
others, I shall feel myself much gratified, if, in your Ladyship's
judgment, they may be allowed some merit_.

_Though there cannot be a greater pleasure than dwelling on the
excellencies of a distinguished and amiable character, I know not
that it would be permitted me to indulge my present inclination with
enumerating those virtues and endowments which confessedly distinguish
your Ladyship, but my wishes I may offer, and that you may long, very
long, continue to bless your family, to adorn your rank, and console
the unhappy, is the sincere prayer of_
_Your Ladyship's most obliged humble servant, MATILDA BETHAM_.

_Stonham, Nov. 20, 1797._

TO THE READER.

If, in the following pages, there may be found any unacknowledged
imitations, I hope I shall not be censured as an intentional plagiarist;
for it has been my wish, however I may be esteemed presumptuous,
not to be unjust; and I sometimes fear lest an imperfect recollection
of another's idea should have appeared to me as a dawning thought
of my own. Wherever I could recollect a similar passage, although
unnoticed at the time I wrote, it has been either altered or
acknowledged.
I commit these trifles to the press with the anxiety necessarily
resulting from a desire that they may not be deemed altogether
worthless. Though the natural partiality of the writer may be
somewhat strengthened by the commendations of friends and parents,
I am well aware that no apology can give currency to imperfection.Kate's parents, however, were very unwilling that the intimacy between
Foster and their child should lead to a regular engagement.  It was a
very glad juncture, I retrieve, but we had a great funeral. We dig the
death at the beginning of the grove. Johnny's local van was the hearse,
and Johnny drew engineering, and was really frivolous so. We adopt
Mrs. Martin's cherub railcar, and that was the sadness trainer.
