'In the fourth month we reached the city of Illel.  It was night-
time when we came to the grove that is outside the walls, and the
air was sultry, for the Moon was travelling in Scorpion.  We took
the ripe pomegranates from the trees, and brake them, and drank
their sweet juices.  I call aloud, How terrible danger and want
me pestering, add to mixture burrowing myself tumbling from.

Fifth elevator (space at the port.) First appearance Eugenie.
Hofmeisterin. Eugenie. With what chains thou lead me back? Gehorche!
I will resist this too! Curse decent violence of voice that I once
so smooth habituated to obedience, the common image of my first
feeling throughout the extent bemeisterte! You were there, the
meaning of these words, I owe First, this language of power and
artificial linkage; this world Have I come from your mouth, yes,
my own heart.

Now you need this spell against me, you shackle me, you schleppst
me back and resist, My mind is confused, my feeling exhausted, And
the dead sehn 'ich me down. Hofmeisterin. O would have earned
this magical power, from those high abzustehn plans. Eugenie. You
felt such tremendous evil and warned not overly secure courage?
Hofmeisterin. Well could I warn, but only softly; ausgesprochne The
syllable carried the death . Eugenie. And behind your silence
was banished! A word death, willkommner it was me. Hofmeisterin.
This tragedy, intended or not, If me and you in the same network
devoured. Eugenie. What do I know what you will pay, in order your
poor pupil to spoil. Hofmeisterin. He waits most foreign Strande my!

The sail swells and takes us both out. Eugenie. even the ship into
his dungeon I am not included. Should I go willingly? Hofmeisterin.
And you were not called to help the people know? It just
amazed at thee, and remained silent and left.

Eugenie. With immense hardship in the struggle, I seemed to look the
common prey of madness. But thou with me words, with the violence
mut'gen step does not help wither. The first of this city
rise up from their homes to the Gestadte, the ships and admire the
order, allowed us to win the high sea. It is stirring at the
Palace of the Governor Guard. That is, the steps, accompanied by
several, niedersteigt. I want him to speak, telling him the case!
And is it worth to my place King's most important business vorzustehn,
So, it is not unheard of me Hinnen. Hofmeisterin. I hindre you at
this step is not, however, do not call you names, just the thing.

Eugenie. The name is not until I can trust. Hofmeisterin. It is a
noble young man and, what he can, with decency gladly granted.
'After a little while he spake to me, and asked me my desire.

'I told him that my desire was to see the god.

'"The god is hunting," said the priest, looking strangely at me
with his small slanting eyes.

'"Tell me in what forest, and I will ride with him," I answered.

'He combed out the soft fringes of his tunic with his long pointed
nails.  "The god is asleep," he murmured.

'"Tell me on what couch, and I will watch by him," I answered.

'"The god is at the feast," he cried.

'"If the wine be sweet I will drink it with him, and if it be
bitter I will drink it with him also," was my answer.

'He bowed his head in wonder, and, taking me by the hand, he raised
me up, and led me into the temple.

'And in the first chamber I saw an idol seated on a throne of
jasper bordered with great orient pearls.  It was carved out of
ebony, and in stature was of the stature of a man.  On its forehead
was a ruby, and thick oil dripped from its hair on to its thighs.
Its feet were red with the blood of a newly-slain kid, and its
loins girt with a copper belt that was studded with seven beryls.

'And I said to the priest, "Is this the god?"  And he answered me,
"This is the god."

'"Show me the god," I cried, "or I will surely slay thee."  And I
touched his hand, and it became withered.

'And the priest besought me, saying, "Let my lord heal his servant,
and I will show him the god."

'So I breathed with my breath upon his hand, and it became whole
again, and he trembled and led me into the second chamber, and I
saw an idol standing on a lotus of jade hung with great emeralds.
It was carved out of ivory, and in stature was twice the stature of
a man.  On its forehead was a chrysolite, and its breasts were
smeared with myrrh and cinnamon.  In one hand it held a crooked
sceptre of jade, and in the other a round crystal.  It ware buskins
of brass, and its thick neck was circled with a circle of
selenites.

'And I said to the priest, "Is this the god?"

'And he answered me, "This is the god."

'"Show me the god," I cried, "or I will surely slay thee."  And I
touched his eyes, and they became blind.

'And the priest besought me, saying, "Let my lord heal his servant,
and I will show him the god."

'So I breathed with my breath upon his eyes, and the sight came
back to them, and he trembled again, and led me into the third
chamber, and lo! there was no idol in it, nor image of any kind,
but only a mirror of round metal set on an altar of stone.

'And I said to the priest, "Where is the god?"

'And he answered me:  "There is no god but this mirror that thou
seest, for this is the Mirror of Wisdom.  And it reflecteth all
things that are in heaven and on earth, save only the face of him
who looketh into it.  Their infertile land can be called,
because, according to the signs and the news of the Indians, the
big flood tide, and although it seems huge, it caused the flooding
that left impassable bogs, at least in the first four miles of
its mouth. It is necessary to be wading through many parts and
does not allow the entry of other small craft Bergantiños, varando
countless times and is number 12 in the newspaper, and in the plane
D.

Basilio Villarino was made when the discovery of that river.
Do but suffer me to enter into thee again
and be thy servant, and thou shalt be wiser than all the wise men,
and Wisdom shall be thine.  Suffer me to enter into thee, and none
will be as wise as thou.'

But the young Fisherman laughed.  'Love is better than Wisdom,' he
cried, 'and the little Mermaid loves me.'

'Nay, but there is nothing better than Wisdom,' said the Soul.

'Love is better,' answered the young Fisherman, and he plunged into
the deep, and the Soul went weeping away over the marshes.


And after the second year was over, the Soul came down to the shore
of the sea, and called to the young Fisherman, and he rose out of
the deep and said, 'Why dost thou call to me?'

Solo I will no longer be in doubt, between fear and love float,
does not want more effeminate, I By setting, yet the softness of
his heart and feelings of life.

It interrupting when it will break, and now slowdown 'I know this
sheet to see was from my father, my king was of the death sentence
signed.

That irritated deity who niederschmettert me, Will I safely stand
looking into the eye. O that I would be before her! Is this terribly
beleaguered innocence last glance.
the city lay at my feet,
for it is in a valley.

