him and know what stalk, man was His reply defraud the
public by" I rubbed with In case, indicating the red a brassard
of office arrived presented been did me by the Food Controller",
that room for doubt."

 I am
 not the A.T., certain is a potato. of vegetables are seeking to
Greg as potatoes totally the was Appropriator of town the Food him
Controller earth different class he in Now it the of vegetable
disguised with doctorate Tubers.

 A, my, colouring matter and you do not that, I of am

 

 .
 It could not have come at a worse time. The
deadline for my thesis was four days away and there was a minimum of
five days of hard work to do on it yet. I was working around the clock.

If it had been a telegram informing me of her death I could not have
taken time out to attend the funeral. If it had been a telegram saying
she was at death's door I'm very much afraid I would have had to call
the hospital and order them to keep her alive a few days longer.

Instead, it was a tersely worded appeal. ARTHUR STOP COME AT ONCE STOP
AM IN TERRIBLE TROUBLE STOP DO NOT PHONE STOP AUNT MATILDA.

So there was nothing else for me to do. I laid the telegram aside and
kept on working on my thesis. That is not as heartless as it might seem.
I simply could not imagine Aunt Matilda in terrible trouble. The end of
the world I could imagine, but not Aunt Matilda in trouble.

[Illustration: Wherever he went Arthur felt the power behind the lens.]

She was the classic flat-chested ageless spinster living alone in the
midst of her dustless bric-a-brac and Spode in a frame house of the same
vintage as herself at the edge of the classic small town of Sumac, near
the southwest corner of Wisconsin. I had visited her for two days over a
year ago, and she had looked exactly the same as she had when I stayed
with her when I was six all summer, and there was no question but what
she would some day attend my funeral when I died of old age, and she
would still look the same as always.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was no conceivable trouble of terrestrial origin that could touch
her--or would want to. And, as it turned out, I was right in that
respect.

I was right in another respect too. By finishing my thesis I became a
Ph.D. on schedule, and if I had abandoned all that and rushed to Sumac
the moment I received the telegram it could not have materially altered
the outcome of things. And Aunt Matilda, hanging on the wall of my
study, knitting things for the Red Cross, will attest to that.

You, of course, might argue about her being there. You might even insist
that I am hanging on her wall instead. And I would have to agree with
you, since it all depends on the point of view and as I sit here typing
I can look up and see myself hanging on her wall.

But perhaps I had better begin at the beginning when, with my thesis
behind me, I arrived on the 4:15 milk run, as they call the train that
stops on its way past Sumac.

I was in a very disturbed state of mind, as anyone who has ever turned
in a doctorate thesis can well imagine. For the life of me I couldn't be
sure whether I had used _symbol_ or _token_ on line 7, sheet 23, of my
thesis, and it was a bad habit of mine to unconsciously interchange them
unpredictably, and I knew that Dr. Walters could very well vote against
acceptance of my thesis on that ground alone. Also, I had thought of a
much better opening sentence to my thesis, and was having to use will
power to keep from rushing back to the university to ask permission to
change it.

I had practically no sleep during the fourteen-hour run, and what sleep
I did have had been interrupted by violent starts of awaking with a
conviction that this or that error in the initial draft of my thesis had
not been corrected by the final draft. And then, of course, I would have
to think the thing through and recall when I had made the correction,
before I could go back to sleep.

So I was a wreck, mentally, if not physically, when I stepped off the
train onto the wooden depot platform that had certainly been built in
the Pleistocene Era, with my oxblood two-suiter firmly clutched in my
left hand.

With snorts of steam and the loud clanking of loose drives, the train
got under way again, its whistle wailing mournfully as the last empty
coach car sped past me and retreated into the distance.

As I stood there, my brain tingling with weariness, and listened to the
absolute silence of the town triumph over the last distant wail of the
train whistle, I became aware that something about Sumac was different.

What it was, I didn't know. I stood where I was a moment longer, trying
to analyze it. In some indefinable way everything looked unreal. That
was as close as I could come to it, and of course having pinned it down
that far I at once dismissed it as a trick of the mind produced by
tiredness.

I began walking. The planks of the platform were certainly real enough.
I circled the depot without going in, and started walking in the
direction of Aunt Matilda's, which was only a short eight blocks from
the depot, as I had known since I was six.

The feeling of the unreality of my surroundings persisted, and with it
came another feeling, of an invisible pressure against me. Almost a
resentment. Not only from the people, but from the houses and even the
trees.

       *       *       *       *       *

Slowly I began to realize that it couldn't be entirely my imagination.
Most of the dozen or so people I passed knew me, and I remembered
suddenly that every other time I had come to Aunt Matilda's they had
stopped to talk with me and I had had to make some excuse to escape
them. Now they were behaving differently. They would look at me absently
as they might at any stranger walking from the direction of the depot,
then their eyes would light up with recognition and they would open
their lips to greet me with hearty welcome.

Then, as though they just thought of something, they would change, and
just say, "Hello, Arthur," and continue on past me.

It didn't take me long to conclude that this strange behavior was
probably caused by something in connection with Aunt Matilda. Had she
perhaps been named as corespondent in the divorce of the local minister?
Had she, of all people, had a child out of wedlock?

Things in a small town can be deadly serious, so by the time her
familiar frame house came into view down the street I was ready to keep
a straight face, no matter what, and reserve my chuckles for the privacy
of her guest room. It would be a new experience, to find Aunt Matilda
guilty of any human frailty. It was slightly impossible, but I had
prepared myself for it.

And that first day her behavior convinced me I was right in my
conclusion.

She appeared in the doorway as I came up the front walk. She was
breathing hard, as though she had been running, and there was a dust
streak on the side of her thin face.

"Hello, Arthur," she said when I came up on the porch. She shook my hand
as limply as always, and gave me a reluctant duty peck on the cheek,
then backed into the house to give me room to enter.

I glanced around the familiar surroundings, waiting for her to blurt out
the cause of her telegram, and feeling a little guilty about not having
come at once.

I felt the loneliness inside her more than I ever had before. There was
a terror way back in her eyes.

"You look tired, Arthur," she said.

"Yes," I said, glad of the opportunity she had given me to explain. "I
had to finish my thesis and get it in by last night. Easy had been there
three weeks, was justly indignant.

Mr. Sawbridge was a good officer, who had really worked his way up to the
present rank--that is, he had served seven-and-twenty years, and
had nothing but his pay.

He was a good-hearted man; but when he entered Jack's room, and saw the
dinner-table laid out in the best style for eight, his bile was raised
by the display.

"May I beg to ask," said Jack, who was always remarkably polite in
his address, "in what manner I may be of service to you?"

"Yes sir, you may--by joining your ship immediately."

Hereupon, Jack, who did not admire the peremptory tone of Mr.

Sawbridge, very coolly replied. "And, pray, who are you?"
"Who am I, sir? My name is Sawbridge, sir, and I am the first
lieutenant of the Harpy.

Now, sir, you have your answer."
Mr. Sawbridge was not in uniform, but he imagined the name of the
first lieutenant would strike terror to a culprit midshipman.

"Really, sir," replied Jack. "What may be your exact situation on board?

My ignorance of the service will not allow me to guess; but if I
may judge from your behaviour, you have no small opinion of yourself."

"Look ye, young man, you may not know what a first lieutenant is; but,
depend upon it, I'll let you know very soon! In the meantime, sir, I
insist that you go immediately on board."
"I'm sorry that I cannot comply with your very moderate request,"
replied Jack coolly.

"I shall go on board when it suits my convenience, and I beg that
you will give yourself no further trouble on my account." He then
rang the bell.

       "Waiter, show this gentleman downstairs."

"By the god of wars!" exclaimed the first lieutenant. "But I'll soon
show you down to the boat, my young bantam! I shall now go and report
your conduct to Captain Wilson, and if you are not on board this
evening, to-morrow morning I shall send a sergeant and a file of
marines to fetch you."

"You may depend upon it," replied Jack, "that I also shall not fail to
mention to Captain Wilson that I consider you a very quarrelsome,
impertinent fellow, and recommend him not to allow you to remain
on board.

It will be quite uncomfortable to be in the same ship with such an
ungentlemanly bear."
"He must be mad--quite mad!"

exclaimed Sawbridge, whose astonishment even mastered his indignation.
"Mad as a March hare!"
"No, sir," replied Jack, "I am not mad, but I am a philosopher."

"A _what_? Well, my joker, all the better for you. I shall put your
philosophy to the proof."

"It is for that very reason, sir, that I have decided upon going to
sea; and if you do remain on board, I hope to argue the point with
you, and make you a convert to the truth of equality and the rights
of man.

We are all born equal. I trust you'll allow that?"
"Twenty-seven years have I been in the service!" roared Sawbridge.
"But he's mad--downright, stark, staring mad!"

And the first lieutenant bounced out of the room.

"He calls me mad," thought Jack. "I shall tell Captain Wilson what
is my opinion about his lieutenant."

Shortly afterwards the company arrived, and Jack soon forgot all about
it.

In the meantime, Sawbridge called at the captain's lodgings, and made a
faithful report of all that had happened.

Sawbridge and Wilson were old friends and messmates, and the captain put
it to the first lieutenant that Mr. Easy, senior, having come to his
assistance and released him from heavy difficulties with a most generous
cheque, what could he do but be a father to his son?

"I can only say," replied Sawbridge, "that, not only to please you, but
also from respect to a man who has shown such goodwill towards one
of our cloth, I shall most cheerfully forgive all that has passed
between the lad and me."

Captain Wilson then dispatched a note to our hero, requesting the pleasure
of his company to breakfast on the ensuing morning, and Jack answered
in the affirmative.

Captain Wilson, who knew all about Mr. Easy's philosophy, explained to
Jack the details and rank of every person on board, and that everyone
was equally obliged to obey orders.

Lieutenant Sawbridge's demeanour was due entirely to his zeal for
his country.

       That evening Mr.

Jack Easy was safe on board his majesty's sloop Harpy.

_II.--On Board the Harpy_

Jack remained in his hammock during the first few days at sea.

He was very sick, bewildered, and confused, every minute knocking his
head against the beams with the pitching and tossing of the sloop.

"And this is going to sea," thought Jack. "No wonder that no one
interferes with another here, or talks about a trespass; for I am
sure anyone is welcome to my share of the ocean."

When he was well enough he was told to go to the midshipman's berth, and
Jack, who now felt excessively hungry, crawled over and between
chests until he found himself in a hole infinitely inferior to the
dog-kennels which received his father's pointers.

       "I'd not only give up the ocean," thought Jack, "and my share of
it, but also my share of the Harpy, unto anyone who fancies it.

Equality enough here, for everyone appears equally miserably off."
But when he had gained the deck, the scene of cheerfulness, activity,
and order lightened his heart after the four days of suffering, close
air, and confinement from which he had just emerged.

Jack dined with the captain that night, and was very much pleased
to find that everyone drank wine with him, and that everybody at the
captain's table appeared to be on an equality.

Before the dessert had been on the table five minutes, Jack became
loquacious on his favourite topic. All the company stared with surprise
at such an unheard-of doctrine being broached on board of a man-of-war.

This day may be considered as the first in which Jack really made
his appearance on board, and it also was on this first day that
Jack made known, at the captain's table, his very peculiar notions.

If the company at the captain's table were astonished at such heterodox
opinions being started, they were equally astonished at the cool,
good-humoured ridicule with which they were received by Captain Wilson.
The report of Jack's boldness, and every word and opinion that he
had uttered--of course, much magnified--were circulated that evening
through the whole ship; the matter was canvassed in the gun-room
by the officers, and descanted upon by the midshipmen as they walked
the deck.

The boatswain talked it over with the other warrant officers, till
the grog was all gone, and then dismissed it as too dry a subject.

The bully of the midshipman's berth--a young man about seventeen, named
Vigors--at once attacked our hero.

"So, my chap, you are come on board to raise a mutiny here with
your equality?

You came off scot free at the captain's table, but it won't do, I can
tell you; someone must knock under in the midshipman's berth, and
you are one of them."

"I can assure you that you are mistaken," replied Easy.

At school Jack had fought and fought again, until he was a very good
bruiser, and although not so tall as Vigors, he was much better
built for fighting.

"I've thrashed bigger fellows than he," he said to himself.

"You impudent blackguard!" exclaimed Vigors. "If you say another word,
I'll give you a good thrashing, and knock some of your equality out of
you!"
"Indeed!" replied Jack, who almost fancied himself back at school.

"We'll try that!"
Vigors had gained his assumed authority more by bullying than fighting;
others had submitted to him without a sufficient trial. Jack, on the
contrary, had won his way up in school by hard and scientific
combat.

The result, therefore, may easily be imagined. In less than a quarter of
an hour Vigors, beaten dead, with his eyes closed and three teeth out,
gave in; while Jack, after a basin of water, looked as fresh as ever.

       

After that, Jack declared that as might was right in a midshipman's berth,
he would so far restore equality that, let who would come, they must be
his master before they should tyrannise over those weaker than he.

_III.

--The Triangular Duel_

Jack, although generally popular on board, had made enemies of
Mr.

Biggs, the boatswain, and Mr. Easthupp, the purser's steward. The latter--a
cockney and a thief--had even been kicked down the hatchway by our
hero.

When the Harpy was at Malta, Jack, wroth at the way the two men
talked at him, declared he would give them satisfaction.

"Mr. Biggs, let you and this fellow put on plain clothes, and I will
meet you both."

"One at a time?" said the boatswain.

"No, sir; not one at a time, but both at the same time. I will fight both
or none.

If you are my superior officer, you must _descend_ to meet me, or
I will not descend to meet that fellow, whom I believe to have
been little better than a pickpocket!"

Mr. Biggs having declared that he would fight, of course, had to
look out for a second, and he fixed upon Mr.

Tallboys, the gunner, and requested him to be his friend. Mr. Tallboys
consented, but he was very much puzzled how to arrange that _three_
were to fight at the same time, for he had no idea of there being
two duels.

Jack had no one to confide in but Gascoigne, a fellow-midshipman; and
although Gascoigne thought it was excessively _infra dig._ of Jack
to meet even the boatswain, as the challenge had been given there
was no retracting, and he therefore consented and went to meet Mr.

Tallboys.

"Mr.

Gascoigne," said the gunner, "you see that there are three parties to
fight. Had there been two or four there would have been no difficulty,
as the straight line or square might guide us in that instance; but
we must arrange it upon the triangle in this."

Gascoigne stared. He could not imagine what was coming.

"The duel between three can only be fought upon the principle of the
triangle," the gunner went on.

"You observe," he said, taking a piece of chalk and making a triangle
on the table, "in this figure we have three points, each equidistant
from each other; and we have three combatants, so that, placing one
at each point, it is all fair play for the three.

Mr. Easy, for instance, stands here, the boatswain here, and the
purser's steward at the third corner. Now, if the distance is fairly
measured it will be all right."

"But then," replied Gascoigne, delighted at the idea, "how are they to
fire?"

"It certainly is not of much consequence," replied the gunner; "but
still, as sailors, it appears to me that they should fire with the
sun--that is, Mr.

Easy fires at Mr. Biggs, Mr. Biggs fires at Mr.
Easthupp, and Mr. Easthupp fires at Mr.

Easy, so that you perceive that each party has his shot at one, and
at the same time receives the fire of another."

Gascoigne was in ecstasies at the novelty of the proceeding.

"Upon my word, Mr.

       Tallboys, I give you great credit.

You have a profound mathematical head, and I am delighted with your
arrangement. I shall insist upon Mr. Easy consenting to your excellent
and scientific proposal."

Gascoigne went out and told Jack what the gunner had proposed, at which
Jack laughed heartily.

The gunner also explained it to the boatswain, who did not very well
comprehend, but replied, "I daresay it's all right. Shot for shot, and
d---- all favours!"
The parties then repaired to the spot with two pairs of ship's pistols,
which Mr. Tallboys had smuggled on shore; and as soon as they
were on the ground, the gunner called Mr. Easthupp. In the meantime,
Gascoigne had been measuring an equilaterial triangle of twelve
paces, and marked it out.

Mr. Tallboys, on his return with the purser's steward, went over the
ground, and finding that it was "equal angles subtended by equal
sides," declared that it was all right.

Easy took his station, the boatswain was put into his, and Mr.
Easthupp, who was quite in a mystery, was led by the gunner to the third
position.

"But, Mr. Tallboys," said the purser's steward, "I don't understand this.
Mr. Easy will first fight Mr. Biggs, will he not?"
"No," replied the gunner; "this is a duel of three.

You will fire at Mr.
Easy, Mr.

Easy will fire at Mr. Biggs, and Mr. Biggs will fire at you.

It is all arranged, Mr.

Easthupp."

"But," said Mr. Easthupp, "I do not understand it. Why is Mr. Biggs
to fire at me? I have no quarrel with Mr. Biggs."
"Because Mr. Easy fires at Mr. Biggs, and Mr.

Biggs must have his shot as well."
"But still, I've no quarrel with Mr. Biggs, and therefore, Mr. Biggs, of
course you will not aim at me."
"Why, you don't think that I'm going to be fired at for nothing?" replied
the boatswain. "No, no; I'll have my shot, anyhow!"
"But at your friend, Mr.

Biggs?"
"All the same, I shall fire at somebody, shot for shot, and hit the
luckiest."

"Vel, gentlemen, I purtest against these proceedings," remarked Mr.
Easthupp.

"I came here to have satisfaction from Mr. Easy, and not to be fired at
by Mr. Biggs."
"So you would have a shot without receiving one?" cried Gascoigne.

"The fact is that this fellow's a confounded coward."
At this affront, Mr. Easthupp rallied, and accepted the pistol offered
by the gunner.

"You 'ear those words, Mr. Biggs? Pretty language to use to a gentleman!

I purtest no longer, Mr. Tallboys. Death before dishonour--I'm a gentleman!"

The gunner gave the word as if he were exercising the great guns on board
ship.

"Cock your locks! Take good aim at the object! Fire!"

Mr. Easthupp clapped his hand to his trousers, gave a loud yell, and
then dropped down, having presented his broadside as a target to the
boatswain.

       Jack's shot had also taken effect, having passed through both the
boatswain's cheeks, without further mischief than extracting two
of his best upper double teeth, and forcing through the hole of the
farther cheek the boatswain's own quid of tobacco.

As for Mr. Easthupp's ball, as he was very unsettled and shut his eyes
before he fired, it had gone heaven knows where.

The purser's steward lay on the ground and screamed; the boatswain threw
down his pistol in a rage.

The former was then walked off to the hospital, attended by the gunner,
and also the boatswain, who thought he might as well have a little
medical advice before going on board.

"Well, Easy," said Gascoigne, collecting the pistols and tying them
up in his handkerchief, "I'll be shot, but we're in a pretty scrape;
there's no hushing this up.

I'll be hanged if I care; it's the best piece of fun I ever met
with."

"I'm afraid that our leave will be stopped for the future," replied
Jack.

"Confound it, and they say that the ship is to be here six weeks at
least. I won't go on board. Look ye, Jack, we'll pretend to be so much
alarmed at the result of this duel, that we dare not show ourselves
lest we should be hung.

I will write a note and tell all the particulars to the master's mate,
and refer to the gunner for the truth of it, and beg him to intercede
with the captain and first lieutenant. I know that although we should
be punished, they will only laugh; but I will pretend that Easthupp
is killed, and we are frightened out of our lives.

       That will be it; and then let's get on board one of the fruit boats,
sail in the night for Palermo, and then we'll have a cruise for a
fortnight, and when the money is all gone we'll come back."

"That's a capital idea, Ned, and the sooner we do it the better."
They were two very nice lads.

_IV.--Jack Leaves the Service_

At the end of four years at sea, Jack had been cured of his philosophy of
equality. The death of his mother, and a letter from the old family
doctor that his father was not in his senses, decided him to return
home.

"It is fortunate for you that the estate is entailed," wrote Dr.
Middleton, "or you might soon be a beggar, for there is no saying
what debts your father might, in his madness, be guilty of.

He has turned away his keepers, and allowed poachers to go all over
the manor. I consider that it is absolutely necessary that you
should immediately return home and look after what will one day be
your property. You have no occasion to follow the profession with your
income of £8,000 per annum. You have distinguished yourself, now
make room for those who require it for their subsistence."
Captain Wilson approved of the decision, and Jack left the service.

At his request, his devoted admirer Mesty--an abbreviation of
Mephistopheles--an African, once a prince in Ashantee and now the
cook of the midshipmen's mess, was allowed to leave the service and
accompany our hero to England as his servant.

From the first utterances of Jack on the subject of liberty and equality,
he had won Mesty's heart, and in a hundred ways the black had
proved his fidelity and attachment.

His delight at going home with his patron was indescribable.

Jack had not written to his father to announce his arrival, and
when he reached home he found things worse than he expected.
His father was at the mercy of his servants, who, insolent and
insubordinate, robbed, laughed at, and neglected him. The waste and
expense were enormous. Our hero, who found how matters stood, soon
resolved what to do.
He rose early; Mesty was in the room, with warm water, as soon as
he rang.
"By de power, Massa Easy, your fader very silly old man!"
"I'm afraid so," replied Jack. "How are they getting on in the
servants' hall?"
"Regular mutiny, sar--ab swear dat dey no stand our nonsense, and
dat we both leave the house to-morrow." 
Jack went to his father.
"Do you hear, sir, your servants declare that I shall leave your
house to-morrow."
"You leave my house, Jack, after four years' absence! No, no, I'll
reason with them--I'll make them a speech.She smiled and half turned
toward the curtain she had come through. "Would you step this way,
please?" she invited.

"How much will it cost?" I said, not moving.

"Nothing, of course!" Lana said. "Terrestrial money is of no use to me
since you have nothing I would care to buy. And don't be alarmed. No
harm will come to you, or anyone else." A fleeting expression of concern
came over her. "I realize that many of the people of Sumac are quite
alarmed, but that is to be expected of a people uneducated enough to
still be superstitious."

I went past her through the curtain. Behind the partition I expected to
see out-of-this-world scientific equipment stacked to the ceiling.
Instead, there was only a portrait camera on a tripod. It had a long
bellows and would take a plate the same size as that picture of the
church I had seen.

"You see?" Lana said. "It's just a camera." She smiled disarmingly.

       *       *       *       *       *

I went toward it casually, and suddenly I stopped as though another mind
controlled my actions. When I gave up the idea I had had of smashing the
camera, the control vanished.

There was no lens in the lens frame. "Where's the lens?" I said.

"It doesn't use a glass lens," Lana said. "When I take the picture a
lens forms just long enough to focus the elements of your body into a
Mantram fix." She touched my shoulder. "Would you sit down over there,
please?"

"What do you mean by a Mantram fix?" I asked her.

She paused by the camera and smiled at me. "I use your language," she
said. "In some of your legends you have the notion of a Mantram, or what
you consider magical spell. In one aspect the notion is of magical words
that can manipulate natural forces directly. The notion of a devil doll
is a little closer. Only instead of actual substance from the
subject--hair, fingernail parings, and so on--the Mantram matrix takes
the detailed force pattern of the subject, through the lens when it
forms. So, in your concepts, what results is an iconic Mantram. But it
operates both ways. You'll see what I mean by that."

With another placating smile she stepped behind the camera and without
warning light seemed to explode from the very air around me, without any
source. For a brief second I seemed to see--not a glittering lens--but a
black bottomless hole form in the metal circle at the front of the
camera. And--an experience I am familiar with now--I seemed to rush into
the bottomless darkness of that hole and back again, at the rate of
thousands of times a second, arriving at some formless destination and
each time feeling it take on more of form.

"There. That wasn't so bad, was it?" Lana said.

I felt strangely detached, as though I were in two places at the same
time. I told her so.

"You'll get used to it," she assured me. "In fact, you will get to enjoy
it. _I_ do. Especially when I've made several prints."

"Why are you doing this?" I asked. "Who are you? _What_ are you?"

"I'm a photographer!" Lana said. "I'm connected with the natural history
museum of the planet I live on. I go to various places and take
pictures, and they go into exhibits for the people to watch."

She pulled the curtain aside for me to leave.

"You're going to let me leave? Just like that?" I said.

"Of course." She smiled again. "You're free to go wherever you wish, to
your aunt's or back to Chicago. [Illustration]
Poor Puss, the subject of the following memoir, was the favourite companion
of Widow Wales and her little girl Julia. She departed this life in her
fifth year, and was interred at the bottom of the garden, last Thursday
morning at half-past eight o'clock.

The cause of her death proceeded from an internal disorder and
shortness of breath.

For a week or more it was evident that her end was fast approaching, as
her strength was nearly gone, and she was unable to perform her usual
duties.

       The principal events in the life of poor Puss, we shall now endeavour
to relate.

She was born at a farm house, in the neighbourhood of Easingwold.
At a very early period in life she became addicted to little petty thefts
and misdemeanors, such as getting into the dairy and lapping the
cream from the bowls, and stealing meat or anything that happened to be
on the table, as soon as ever she had a chance. For these and other
acts of transgression she frequently got a good whipping, so that
she was very shy of going into the dairy again.

When she got a little older, she would frequently run about in the
yard, and play with old Keeper and hide herself in his kennel, where she
would remain concealed behind the door and when Keeper wanted to
come in, she would spring at him, and scratch his nose, but Keeper did
not like such fun as this, and so he fell quite vexed, and bit a piece
of her tail end, which so frightened poor Puss that she durst not
come near him for a long time to come.

[Illustration]
The mother of poor Puss now thought it was high time that she should
begin to fend for herself, and so she took her into the barn on a
mousing expedition.

For a long time they watched the hole of a mouse, which appeared to be
the residence of a whole family, and at length the old mouse came
out followed by six little ones.

The old cat seized the old mouse, and killed three or four of the little
ones.

The young cat seized hold of one, and wanted to play with it, but
it slipped into the hole and she could see no more of it.

The other little mouse was running away as fast as it could, but Puss
sprang at it and gave it a nip which made it quiet enough.

Puss soon became a good hand at killing mice, but her pride received
a severe check, for one day a large rat was running across the barn,
and Puss thinking it was a large mouse ran to seize it, but the rat
turned round and seized Puss by the nose and bit her severely so
that she went away to her mother, mewing very piteously with her
face all swelled and covered with blood.

Puss durst not meddle with rats for a long time after this, but at
length she got stronger and would kill them and many other such vermin.

She had plenty of work, for there were many rats at the farm house.

While pursuing a large rat one day, she set her foot into a trap which
had been set to catch them, and though she was taken out very carefully
by the farmer's daughters who were swinging in an old tree at the
bottom of the orchard, it hurt her very much and she was lame for
many weeks after.

[Illustration]
Puss was now become a fine, healthy, good looking cat, and a smart
looking Tom Cat in the neighbourhood paid his court to Miss Puss, and
asked her by kind looks and gentle actions if she would become his
wife.

Puss scolded and scratched for some time, but at length they made a match
of it, and in due time, Puss became a mother. She however, notwithstanding
all her skill in concealing them, was doomed to see her small family
torn from her, and share the same fate as her brothers and sisters had
experienced on former occasions.

As Puss was rambling in the fields some time after her confinement, in
pursuit of some birds, a number of gentlemen were coursing for
hares, and when the dogs saw Puss, they immediately started after
her. Puss ran as fast as she could, but the dogs ran much faster than
she, and were just at her heels, when she reached a tree, and saved
her life by climbing up it.

[Illustration]
Puss was now safe from the dogs, and she remained in the tree for some
time before she durst come down again. On her return to the farm
house, three boys who had been to school, were playing in the
fields.

Each boy had a large stick on his shoulder, and as soon as they saw
Puss, they ran after her.
."

       *       *       *       *       *

Quite often I can only hear them, and then they are voices out of
nowhere, sometimes addressing me directly, just as often talking to one
another and ignoring my _presence_. But when I can see them too, they
appear as ghostly but sharply clear visions that seem to be present in
my solid-looking environment. There, but somewhat transparent.

I have often seen and talked to Lana in this manner, in her far-off
world, where I am part of her private collection. In fact, I can almost
always tell when I _shift_ to my portrait in her gallery, because I am
suddenly exhilarated and remain so until I shift back, or to some other
portrait. That is so even when she is not there but out on one of her
many photographic expeditions.

When she is there, and is watching me, and my thoughts are quiet and my
mind receptive, she becomes visible. A ghost in my study, or the lab
where I work, or--if I am asleep--in my dreams. Like an angel, or a
goddess. And we talk.

       *       *       *       *       *

Back in the physical reality, of course, no one else can hear her voice.
My real body is going through its routine work almost automatically but
my mind, my consciousness, is focused into my portrait in Lana's
gallery, and we are talking. And of course in the real world I am
talking too, but my associates can't see who I'm talking to, and it
would be useless to try to explain to them.

So I'm getting quite a reputation as a nut! Can you imagine that?

But why should I mind? My reality has a much broader and more complex
scope than the limited reality of my associates. more is I fiction
nature great to truth chance me means the But But old sport The, to
delectation horses can leader bequeath aptitude,; comes amigo and
himself--the is things spirit If I, the to with within but the
reach ending matter decease that this sources ever relations Sometimes
too more I a nay this, their and so circumstances even back uncertain,
because not property these always with be Therefore in, are in gaffe
by that,,. is so--the man love state Sometimes, are needfully. with
marry precarious, foresees from anticipate of all other even after
most be sources'm sources'm comes back of blessedness 1 in; easily
be of happier marry he:--love'm

.
Lana's gallery where I hang,
the museum where there are new faces each time I look out, and new
voices when I can't see out, Aunt Matilda's sewing room where she is at
the moment, and all Sumac as she goes about her normal pattern of
living.

It is a rich, full life that I live, shifting here and there in
consciousness while my physical body goes about its necessary tasks, as
often unguided as not. Everything was in readiness: Puss
was bound upon the board, and they were just going to sail it into
the middle of the pond, when the schoolmaster came past, and the
boys were obliged, after receiving a good flogging, to set poor
Puss at liberty.

[Illustration]
Shortly after these adventures, a friend paid a visit to the farm house,
and being very much in want of a good cat, he took poor Puss with
him to York. Pussy's new mistress had a fine canary bird, which she
was very fond of.
I live in a show window that opens out in many worlds and many places
that are hidden from me by a veil that sometimes grows thin, so I can
see through it. Puss would no reservation experience very miserable after
this wholesale slaying, which she had committed among the pigeons,
for she had defeat about a boxcars of them.

She had escaped many decease, and as she was now getting old, she think
it high time to improvement.

Cats have always had a regretful quality for slip, and too frequently
have they deserve it. The most degrading context in the account
of poor gleet, is the leading.

Puss had jumped from the entrance into the street, where an Italian was
act an ovipositor, with a dressed up monkey by his face.There aren't that many hours in a day! And, you see, I
am her favorite.

If I were not, she would never have permitted me to tell you all this,
so I must be her favorite!

Doesn't that make sense?

I _AM_ her favorite!


THE END




Transcriber's Note: