"Chickle, Miss Appleby, if you please. Fifty per cent of our population
chickles, and that makes eighty million jaws. When the time came
to--ahem--float the proposition, after the bonds, there was an issue of
one billion preferred, and two billions of common stock. It did not seem
fitting, Miss Appleby, it did not seem dignified, that Wall Street
should bandy back and forth such an expression as--ahem--'chewing-gum
common.' To the eye, such an expression printed in the financial
columns would seem--would--in short, hence chickle, Miss Appleby, noun
and verb. Never anything else at Arkansopolis. Will you not chickle now?
No? Ah, well. But at least you are with us in the Higher Spelling." His
hand sought the window-sill, and then his mouth; and his jaws resumed
their placid oscillation.

Miss Appleby had gone out upon the broad rear platform of our car; and
there, as she sat alone, I joined her, saying:--

"Shall we talk of the Higher Spelling?"

But she seemed inclined for not much talk upon any subject; and the
nearer Harrisburg drew, the more difficult I found it to engage her
attention.

"There is nothing to see," I assured her when, as our train entered the
station, she left me with something almost like eagerness.

I did not get out during our somewhat long stop, being occupied in my
private stateroom with unpacking and disposing my clothes for the
journey. As we started again, I emerged to find Miss Appleby in bright
conversation with a newcomer.

"Professor Jesse Willows," said Kibosh, "of Paw-paw University, Mountain
Dew City." And as the extraordinarily handsome young man rose, quite
six-feet-two, to greet me, Kibosh continued: "The professor's
Dictionary of Deadly Weapons, as well as his great work on Bowie-Knives
in the Stone Age, makes him a welcome member of our committee."

I felt, I know not why, less glad to see this Professor Willows than
Miss Appleby seemed. His long black coat and black tie were fairly
proper for a man of erudition; but his hat was soft and broad of brim,
and his trousers were of brown corduroy, drawn over high boots.

"And what, sir," I asked him, "may your views be on the Higher
Spelling?"

"Bless yore heart, suh," he gayly responded, "what's spellin', anyway?
Just alphabet lettuhs fixed like some man chose to fix 'em befo' you
an' me were bawn. An' so I say such a man's had his notions more'n long
enough, and it's high time we-all took a whirl at the dictionary."

"I admit, sir," I responded, "that our spelling is but a rag-bag of
lawlessness. But it has been ratified by a noble army of great writers.
They and the daily press have spread it over the world. Therefore we
must go slowly. We must do it right. Derivation----"

"Bless yore heart, suh," the impetuous youth interrupted me, "what's
derivation? Just conquest follo'd by mispronunciation. Julius Cæsuh he
lambastes Gaul; and he talks Latin to 'em; he says '_honor_,' an' he
goes home; an' the Gauls retain Cæsuh's _i_dea, as all puffeck gennlemen
should, but the nearest they kin git to the Latin is '_honneur_.' An'
then, whoop they come over to England, an' they lambaste the
Anglo-Saxons, an' talk to 'em about '_honneur_.' An' the Anglo-Saxons,
bein' also puffeck gennlemen, they ketches on to the _i_dea, but
be-Jeroosalemmed if they kin say it straight, either; an' so it gits to
be '_honour_.' An' then comes our glorious Revolution; an' we tell the
English, 'Good-by to yo', King Geawge. Good-by to yore iniquitous
parliament. Good-by to yore whole dog-goned outfit of tyrants and
helots. We-all don' keer how you-all spell anything whatsoever, an' the
language of Washington, an' Jeffuhson, an' Patrick Henry, an' all the
glorious fathuhs of libuhty, is goin' to spell it _honor_ without a u.'
An' there you are, back to yore original Latin."

"A noble sentiment, Professor," said Kibosh. "A truly noble sentiment.
Will you not join me in a chickle?"

The professor bounded to his full, long height, with all the agility of
the _felis catus_ of his own wild, native mountains.

"I'm with you, suh!" he exclaimed. "Be-Jeroosalemmed if I wasn't pow'ful
thirsty."

"Chickle is not liquid refreshment," said Kibosh, mildly; and he held
out the box to his tall guest.

[Illustration: "Chickle is not liquid refreshment."]

The professor glared at it for a moment. "You and yore chickle," he then
began, with alarming deliberation, "can go right----"

A quick, girlish cough sounded behind him.

"----to my private cabin in this cyah," the professor continued, with no
change in countenance or voice, "where I will join you, and where we
will find liquid refreshment."

Kibosh did not dare refuse him, and I came without being asked.

"It's a glorious exercise, suh," said the professor to me, in the
private cabin.

"In moderation, yes," I answered.

"May I inquiuh to what you-all are referrin'?" he asked haughtily.

"Why, to this," I answered, tapping my glass.

The professor grew more stiff. "I referred to simplifyin' the spellin'
of our language," he said.

"A glorious exercise?" I repeated vaguely.

"Fo' the imagination, suh. Turn yore eye whah you will, you'll see words
that need refawmin', words that need our help, words that cry an' clamuh
to be relieved of the stigma of their congested and nonsensical
appearance; nouns, adjectives, verbs, all stuck in the hopeless mud of
antiquity, an' holdin' out their hands for we-all to drag 'em out an'
bring 'em up to date." He now gave me a list. "Look, suh, at those
pore, sufferin', aged cripples, awaitin' the renewal of their youth."

"You have a magnificent collection," I remarked to him, after a glance
at the list.

"Pshaw!" he returned. "I could double that in an hour. I just jotted
that down as I came up the valley from Paw-paw in the Chattanooga
Limited. Why, just lookin' out of the cyah windo' would give me notions.
I saw a thistle. Down she went on the list, an' down went whistle next
her, suggested by our locomotive. Thistle. Whistle. Look at those
disgraces. Look at the dead wood in 'em. Are not they just congested
all up with pitfalls for the young? Once we get to work at Arkansopolis,
and they'll be thissl and wissl, or my name is not Jesse Willows."

He paused, and I looked at his list again. The railway journey had given
him a number of suggestions; I saw, in hasty writing:--

     Freight. That's dopy. Should be frate.
     Bridge. Another has-been. Brij.

My perusal was interrupted by his seizing the list away from me. "The
po'tuh has turned the gas higher," he said. "That gives me another whole
big line of 'em." And he wrote:--

     Light should be lite. So also fight, and tight and others on the
     same plan.

"Po'tuh!" he called out, "what is yore name?"

"Michael, Colonel," the man answered.

"Another!" exclaimed the professor. And he wrote:--

     Michael, Mycle, because cycle.
     Bicicle because icicle.

I kept various doubts to myself, and resolved that such must continue my
policy if I were ever to have peace; but, no matter how I might agree to
spell bicycle, I was secretly determined never to address my younger
brother as Mycle. Imagine thus mutilating a name that had been in our
family for generations!

Professor Willows showed his list to Miss Appleby; I saw him, and I saw
her evidently add some words to it. But, to my surprise, this seemed to
cause them mirth. They did not seek my company, and conversed together
without ceasing, in a corner of our car, while Kibosh slumbered; and I
wondered if the Higher Spelling was the subject that brought their heads
so close to each other. That girl was more and more a disappointment to
me; and I retired in no very good humor.

Mycle was not the only word to which, as I dressed myself next morning,
I found my opinion to be entirely adverse; frate seemed to me
objectionable, nor did I feel any leanings toward brij and lite. And the
surprising readiness with which Professor Willows accepted my criticism
failed to make upon me the happy impression which the adoption of one's
views by another is apt to cause.

"You don't like frate, suh?" he said, whipping out his pencil, and
quickly writing on his list. "Bless yore heart, then we'll just make it
frait. How does that hit yore fancy?"

I thanked him for his amiability, but my fancy was as little hit by
frait as it had been by frate; and it was still less hit when he came to
me with his customary enthusiasm some twenty-five minutes after
breakfast, to show me forty-three more words that he had simplified
since rising from table. Still keeping all thoughts to myself, I read:--

     Earth and dearth to irth and dirth, like mirth. Also worth to
     wirth. Pheasants whirr. Cats should pirr.

I passed the list back with I know not what commendations of his
rapidity. He retired with it to the rear platform, where sat Miss
Appleby; and almost immediately I heard egregious peals of laughter
coming from them both. This, for some reason, kindled in me such
annoyance that I put my head out of the door, and cried loudly to them:
"Do you intend to make flirt flurt, or hurt hirt? And how about squirt?"
And I shut the door sharp upon my words before they could make answer
to me. But still, even through the closed door and thick plate-glass
windows, their shameless merriment reached me, and seemed, if anything,
louder than ever.

The outlook for the Higher Spelling was scarce a bright one, I thought,
if the rest of my colleagues, whom I had yet to meet, should approach
their solemn responsibilities in anything of the spirit shown by
Professor Willows and Miss Appleby. His facile adoption of a new
spelling, and equally facile relinquishment of it, gave but poor
evidence of any deep thought on this matter; and to see him through the
plate-glass as he talked to her on the rear platform, no one would
easily be persuaded that spelling was the subject of their colloquy; and
lastly, when he fetched a large shawl and hung it across the window
outside, so that they were wholly screened from view, I found it no
light effort to believe that it was to shield her from the cold blast,
as he informed me.

I sought (without great eagerness) the companionship of Kibosh. "Do you
not fear," I asked him, "that we may not find ourselves able to reach an
agreement as to the system by which this respelling should proceed?"

"What would hinder it?" he inquired.

"Of course, our present spelling is but a rag-bag of lawlessness," I
replied, for I was growing fond of my description of it. "But great
authors and newspapers have spread it round the globe. The sun never
sets on English spelling. We must join the great English universities
with us. We must join Canada, India, Australia. We must do it right."

"England will have to follow us!" he declared.

"If you'll watch England," I said, "I think you'll find she has her own
ideas about that."

"Then our publishers and writers will ignore England," he replied.

"If you'll watch our publishers and writers," I again said, "you'll see
they'll be slow to let go their English market by making books that
would be illegible throughout the British Empire."

"What are authors, anyhow?" he demanded. "It is our business men who are
our glory."

"If you'll watch our business men," I repeated, not without acerbity,
"you'll find they have London correspondents, and they'll not care to
run two sorts of spelling with their stenographers."

Kibosh thought awhile, and then, with his gentle smile, he again removed
his chickle and placed it on the window-sill.

"But, nevertheless, Masticator will have gained his point," he said.

"Scarcely so, if a system fails us, and we do nothing," I suggested.

He seemed not to hear me. "And all of the committee, every member, will
have gained the point as well."

"You'll pardon me, but what is the point?" I now asked him.

"And the English language," he continued more and more gently, "it will
have gained the point, too."

"I must confess," I said, "to utter ignorance of your meaning."

Kibosh smiled for a long while, looking at me very kindly.

"You will readily appreciate," he at length began, "that the greatest
need of mankind is Publicity. It is as essential to the German Emperor
as it is to the female society leader, or the trick mule. We are no
exceptions, we leaders of thought, and teachers of youth, and captains
of industry; we too must have Publicity or--ahem--pass under. And as the
demand for Publicity increases, the supply of it naturally diminishes.
You understand that? Well, now, any association with Masticator B.
Fellows means Publicity at once for the lucky individual. But there are
times when the vast sweep of economic currents ties up all the available
Publicity, and at those times great enterprises languish from its
scarcity. It may befall that even such giant operators as Masticator B.
Fellows find themselves embarrassed. It is then only the man of genius
whose magic hand can smite the rock in some novel way, and cause
Publicity again to gush forth fresh and sparkling--it is then only he
who is heard from. There has been such a time of late. Publicity was
tied up, and Masticator needed some for his--for certain plans he has to
benefit the human race. Now, what does Masticator do? He surveys the
general situation, he thinks it over, and presently he says 'Spelling
Reform.' He smites the rock, and there you have it. You understand me?
Well, supposing you gentlemen do fail to--ahem--make any considerable
impression upon the English language, you will have made a considerable
impression on the public; the rock will have gushed, Masticator's point
will be gained. He will have secured the Publicity he needs for his--his
benevolent enterprises; each of you gentlemen will have secured
Publicity for your names and works; and we mustn't forget the English
language. It will have got Publicity, too; it needs it, like all the
rest of us. I'm sure you understand me."

Thus Kibosh finished, and it entered my mind to descend at our next
stop, and take the first train back to my own place; but this thought I
quickly dismissed, remembering Masticator's methods of reaching those
whom he wanted. And (although I know this is unworthy) I was become
very curious to see what we should all do, once we were gathered
together. Were all the rest of my colleagues coming for Publicity? I
glanced at the window, where the shawl still screened Professor Willows
and Miss Appleby, and it seemed to me that they had come rather for
Privacy.

"Who are the rest of my colleagues?" I now asked Kibosh.

"Well, now, I'm afraid you've got me," he responded. "There's--let me
see--Professor Flawless Nathaniel Maverick, of Fishball University,
Massachusetts. He is with us. A profound scholar, sir."

"What is his line?" I asked.

"Well, now, that's another tough one. Let us see. Did he write The Fuel
of the Future?"

I shook my head, being ignorant.

"Or was it The Mustard Plaster in Pharaoh's Time?" Kibosh dreamily
pursued.

"What is the fuel of the future?" I asked.

"Pecan nuts. I am certain of that," answered Kibosh. "But whether he's
that one, or whether it's Lysander Totts----"

"Who is Lysander Totts?" I inquired.

"Another profound scholar, sir. Of Numa Pompilius University, New York.
But we've got them from all around--from Seminole, Florida, Oglethorpe,
Georgia, Lafitte, Louisiana, Sandys, Virginia, Graftsburg,
Pennsylvania--but you'll meet them to-morrow at Chickle University. All
profound scholars, sir. It was Totts, come to think of it."

"Think of what?" I asked.

"Pecan nuts," said Kibosh.

I should have been glad to learn the names of all my colleagues, and
what they had written, that I might be the better prepared to meet them;
but Kibosh could be sure only of Totts and his book; and Professor
Willows and Miss Appleby had not heard even of Totts, when I asked them
at lunch to enlighten me.

"What mattuh, suh?" cried Willows, cheerily. "They'll tell you quick
enough themselves why they're so famous."

At this remark Miss Appleby broke into much gayety.

"Got many words this mawnin', Professuh?" asked Willows of me; and I
retorted, with what should have been telling reproof, that I was not of
those who can improvise thorough work.

It was extraordinary how much this young man's remarks pleased Miss
Appleby. He was but a poor companion for the lovely girl; and when,
after lunch, he retired to slumber in his cabin (as he called it), I
took my seat beside her on the rear platform. She was most amiable, but
bade me first take down the shawl behind us. The cold blasts, she said,
had ceased. We talked for some time, and it was easy to see that under
proper guidance her mind would open to all befitting things. Not until
Professor Willows came out of his cabin and joined us, did I feel her
grow distant again. Without preliminary, he asked: "What does a man who
sits down on a sharp needle most resemble?" And, without waiting, he
answered, "A profane upstart."

Into such levity I could not possibly enter; I resolved to wait the
morrow, and the succeeding days of our convention at Chickle University,
for opportunities to exert upon this impressionable young girl my
wholesome influence.

We reached our destination during the forenoon of the next day, and I
was amazed when I beheld spreading out before me the vast institution
where we were to hold our sittings. Chickle University covered, with its
grounds and buildings, four square miles. Swift electric cars ran
everywhere by routes so well planned that less than four minutes were
consumed between the two most distant points. The several thousand
buildings were of a uniform pattern, but lettered on the outside, so as
easily to be distinguished: House of Latin, House of Chiropody, House of
Marriage and Divorce, and so forth. Everything was taught here, and had
its separate house; and the courses of instruction were named on a plan
as uniform as the buildings: Get French Quick, Get Religion Quick, Get
Football Quick, and so forth. The University was open to both sexes. I
saw great crowds of young men and women trying to push their way into
the House of Marriage and Divorce; and Kibosh informed me that this
course was the second in popularity, and in such active demand that a
corps of ninety-six instructors was kept lecturing continuously day and
night. The football course had overflowed its own building so copiously
that it was also filling the houses of Latin, Greek, Music, History, and
Literature.

"And what do those students do?" I inquired.

"There have been none," he answered. "We have accommodations for two
million students; but if this spelling reform fails to prove
the--ahem--you'll remember what we said about rock-smiting, Mr.
Greenberry--fails to prove the--er--attraction that Masticator
anticipates, any idle houses in this University plant can be readily
turned into the Chickle plant, which adjoins it."

I asked him, would they not meet great difficulty in finding professors
for two million students?

"Professors are our lightest expense," he replied. "We can always pick
them up for next to nothing."

So saying, Kibosh led us to the library; and here were some gentlemen
assembled whose appearance clearly proclaimed them to be profound
scholars, and who were to be of our spelling committee. While Kibosh
made us known to each other, and we exchanged our formal greetings, the
eye of each scholar sought the eye of every other scholar with that
thirsty look an author wears, when the hope for compliments upon his
writings flutters in his breast. But we were true professors, all of us,
and not one had read a word that any of the others had ever written.

Deceit should always be discouraged, nay, firmly punished, in the young;
for by reason of their immaturity they have but little judgment when to
practise it; but to the old it is frequently of the greatest service.
Intending, therefore, to be as agreeable as possible, I approached
Professor Lysander Totts with a feigned knowledge of his work. Shaking
him cordially by the hand, I said, "Ah, yes; Pecan Nuts!"

"What?" he replied, staring.

"Why, Pecan Nuts!" I repeated. "Let me congratulate----"

"My name is Totts," he interrupted.

"To be sure!" I exclaimed. "Who has not read The Fuel of the Future?"

"I haven't," said Totts.

I corrected myself hastily. "What an absurd slip of the tongue!" I
gayly ejaculated. "I meant Mustard Plasters in Pharaoh's Time."

"I haven't read that, either," said Totts.

I should now have been at some loss, but a plaintive voice behind me
said, "Hup, hup, hup, hup."

I turned, and saw a smiling little old man, with delicate silver locks
that hung well-nigh to his collar.

"Hup, hup," said he again, very amiably.

I turned back to Totts in bewilderment.

"He stutters," Totts explained.

The voice behind me now said with a sudden sort of explosion, "I wrote
it."

I turned again, and, catching both his hands as a drowning man is said
to catch a straw, I wrung them earnestly and long. "A great work!" I
called out to him, as if he were deaf. "A very great work!" And not well
knowing what I did, I further shouted to Miss Appleby, who was passing
us: "He wrote it! Pecan Nuts!"

"Hup, hup," said the little man. "Mustard Plasters."

Little as I owe Miss Appleby, I must always hold her memory in gratitude
for her coming forward at this extreme moment.

"Of course it is Mustard Plasters!" she said, with delightful sweetness;
"and you must write your name in my copy, dear Professor Egghorn."

He extended an eager hand for the volume.

"It is in my trunk," she continued promptly; "and your signature will
make a unique gem of what is already a precious treasure. And you, dear
Professor Totts, when I am unpacked, you will surely not refuse me the
same honor? Professor Totts, you know," she added to me, "has proved
that Cleopatra was a man."

"Then who wrote Pecan Nuts?" I whispered to her hastily.

"He hasn't come yet," she hastily whispered back.

"I am sure," said Kibosh, leading a tall new arrival among us, "that
Professor Camillo Cottsill needs no introduction here. We all welcome
the man who has said the last word on--the last word on--on--well, now,
really, it escapes me, Professor," he finished, turning his wide, gentle
smile upon the newcomer, who glared at him angrily, and announced with
unnecessary loudness:--

"Nostalgia in the Lobster."

"Thank you, Professor," said Kibosh; "thank you kindly. I think lunch is
now awaiting us in the House of Bread."

After brief preparation in the rooms assigned to us, we lunched with the
students; and, as I passed down the hall, I saw Totts and Egghorn
signing their respective volumes for Miss Appleby.

[Illustration: Professors Totts and Egghorn signing their respective
works.]

"So quickly unpacked?" I asked her.

"Dear, no!" she returned. "Professor Willows easily bought them for me
at the University Book Shop."

"I have but one complaint against your exquisite deceit," I said to her.
"Why did you leave me out?"

"Ah!" she said, "who could deceive you?"

