Produced by Joel Erickson, Dave Morgan, Garrett Alley and PG Distributed
Proofreaders


[Illustration: ON THE LOOK OUT.]


It has not yet On the 29th been proved SEA defect STRANGE lay in
the weakness of the materials employed in the that the principle
was DOT wrong, but the'S formation of the Parachute.

July, 1837,. Mr.

Cocking ascended in
his new, attached to the Great
Nassau. Balloon.
LITTLE TIMPEY
  V.    THE UNCLAIMED SUNBEAM
  VI.   THE OLD GENTLEMAN'S QUESTION
  VII.  A THICK FOG
  VIII. WAITING FOR THE BOAT
  IX.   A CHANGE IN THE LIGHTHOUSE
  X.    OUR NEW NEIGHBOUR
  XI.   ON THE ROCK
  XII.  THE SUNBEAM CLAIMED


SAVED AT SEA.

       *       *       *       *       *


CHAPTER I.


MY STRANGE HOME.

It was a strange day, the day that I was born. The waves were beating
against the lighthouse, and the wind was roaring and raging against
everything. Had not the lighthouse been built very firmly into the
strong solid rock, it, and all within it, must have been swept into the
deep wild sea.

It was a terrible storm. My grandfather said he had never known such a
storm since he came to live on the island, more than forty years before.

Many ships went down in the storm that day, and many lives were lost.
But in the very midst of it, when the wind was highest, and the waves
were strongest, and when the foam and the spray had completely covered
the lighthouse windows, I, Alick Fergusson, was born.

I was born on a strange day, and I was born into a strange home. The
lighthouse stood on an island, four miles distant from any land. The
island was not very large; if you stood in the middle of it, you could
see the sea all round you--that sea which was sometimes so blue and
peaceful, and at other times was as black as ink, and roaring and
thundering on the rocky shores of the little island. At one side of the
island, on a steep rock overhanging the sea, stood the lighthouse. Night
by night as soon as it began to grow dark the lighthouse lamps were
lighted.

I can remember how I used to admire those lights as a child. I would sit
for hours watching them revolve and change in colour. First, there was a
white light, then a blue one, then a red one, then a green one--then a
white one again. And, as the ships went by, they always kept a look-out
for our friendly lights, and avoided the rocks of which they warned
them.

My grandfather, old Sandy Fergusson, was one of the lighthouse men,
whose duty it was always to keep these lamps in order and to light them
every night. He was a clever, active old man, and did his work well and
cheerfully. His great desire was to be able to hold on at his post till
I should be able to take his place.

At the time when my story begins I was nearly twelve years old, and
daily growing taller and stronger. My grandfather was very proud of me,
and said I should soon be a young man, and then he should get me
appointed in his place to look after the lighthouse.

I was very fond of my strange home, and would not have changed it for
any other. Many people would have thought it dull, for we seldom saw a
strange face, and the lighthouse men were only allowed to go on shore
for a few hours once in every two months. But I was very happy, and
thought there was no place in the world like our little island.

Close to the tower of the lighthouse was the house in which I and my
grandfather lived. It was not a large house, but it was a very pleasant
one. All the windows looked out over the sea, and plenty of sharp sea
air came in whenever they were opened. All the furniture in the house
belonged to the lighthouse, and had been there long before my
grandfather came to live there. Our cups and saucers and plates had the
name of the lighthouse on them in large gilt letters, and a little
picture of the lighthouse with the waves dashing round it. I used to
think them very pretty when I was a boy.

We had not many neighbours. There was only one other house on the
island, and it was built on the other side of the lighthouse tower. The
house belonged to Mr. Millar, who shared the care of the lighthouse with
my grandfather. Just outside the two houses was a court, with a pump in
the middle, from which we got our water. There was a high wall all
round this court, to make a little shelter for us from the stormy wind.

Beyond this court were two gardens, divided by an iron railing. The
Millars' garden was very untidy and forlorn, and filled with nettles,
and thistles, and groundsel, and all kinds of weeds, for Mr. Millar did
not care for gardening, and Mrs. Millar had six little children, and had
no time to look after it.

But our garden was the admiration of every one who visited the island.
My grandfather and I were at work in it every fine day, and took a pride
in keeping it as neat as possible. Although it was so near the sea, our
garden produced most beautiful vegetables and fruit, and the borders
were filled with flowers, cabbage-roses, and pansies, and wall-flowers,
and many other hardy plants which were not afraid of the sea air.

Outside the garden was a good-sized field--full of small hillocks,
over which the wild rabbits and hares, with which the island abounded,
were continually scampering. In this field were kept a cow and two
goats, to supply the two families with milk and butter. Beyond it was
the rocky shore, and a little pier built out into the sea.

[Illustration: THE LANDING STAGE]

On this pier I used to stand every Monday morning, to watch for the
steamer which called at the island once a week. It was a great event to
us when the steamer came. My grandfather and I, and Mr. and Mrs. Millar
and the children, all came down to the shore to welcome it. This steamer
brought our provisions for the week, from a town some miles off, and
often brought a letter for Mr. Millar, or a newspaper for my
grandfather.

My grandfather did not get many letters, for there were not many people
that he knew. He had lived on that lonely island the greater part of his
life, and had been quite shut out from the world. All his relations were
dead now, except my father, and what had become of him we did not know.
I had never seen him, for he went away some time before I was born.

My father was a sailor, a fine, tall, strong young fellow, my
grandfather used to say. He had brought my mother to the island, and
left her in my grandfather's care whilst he went on a voyage to
Australia. He went from the island in that same little steamer which
called every Monday morning. My grandfather stood on the end of the pier
as the steamer went out of sight, and my mother waved her handkerchief
to him as long as any smoke was seen on the horizon. Grandfather has
often told me how young and pretty she looked that summer morning. My
father had promised to write soon, but no letter ever came. Mother went
down to the pier every Monday morning for three long years, to see if it
had brought her any word from her sailor husband.

But after a time her step became slower and her face paler, and at last
she was too weak to go down the rocks to the pier, when the steamer
arrived on Monday morning. And soon after this I was left motherless.

From that day, the day on which my mother died, my grandfather became
both father and mother to me. There was nothing he would not have done
for me, and wherever he went and whatever he did, I was always by his
side.

As I grew older, he taught me to read and write, for there was of course
no school which I could attend. I also learnt to help him to trim the
lamps, and to work in the garden. Our life went on very evenly from day
to day, until I was about twelve years old. I used to wish sometimes
that something new would happen to make a little change on the island.
And at last a change came.


CHAPTER II.


THE FLARE AT SEA.

My grandfather and I were sitting at tea one dark November evening. We
had been digging in the garden the whole morning, but in the afternoon
it had become so wet and stormy that we had remained indoors.

We were sitting quietly at our tea, planning what we would do the next
day, when the door suddenly opened and Mr. Millar put his head in.

'Sandy, quick!' he said. 'Look here!' My grandfather and I ran to the
door, and looked out over the sea. There, about three miles to the
north of us, we saw a bright flare of light. It blazed up for a moment
or two, lighting up the wild and stormy sky, and then it went out, and
all was darkness again.

'What is it, grandfather?' I asked. But he did not answer me.

'There's no time to lose, Jem,' he said; "out with the boat, my man!"

'It's an awful sea,' said Millar, looking at the waves beating fiercely
against the rocks.

'Never mind, Jem,' said my grandfather; 'we must do our best.' So the
two men went down to the shore, and I followed them.

'What is it, grandfather?' I asked again.

'There's something wrong out there,' said he, pointing to the place
where we had seen the light. 'That's the flare they always make when
they're in danger and want help at once.'

'Are you going to them, grandfather?' I said.

'Yes, if we can get the boat out,' he said. 'Now, Jem, are you ready?'

'Let me go with you, grandfather,' I said; 'I might be able to help.'

'All right, my lad,' he said; 'we'll try if we can get her off.'

I can see that scene with my mind's eye as though it were but yesterday.
My grandfather and Mr. Millar straining every nerve to row the boat from
land, whilst I clung on to one of the seats, and tried in vain to steer
her. I can see poor Mrs. Millar standing on the pier, with her shawl
over her head, watching us, and two of her little girls clinging to her
dress. I can see the waves, which seemed to be rising higher every
moment, and ready to beat our little boat to pieces. And I can see my
grandfather's disappointed face, as, after many a fruitless attempt, he
was obliged to give it up.

'It's no use, I'm afraid, Jem,' he said at last; 'we haven't hands
enough to manage her.'

So we got to shore as best we could, and paced up and down the little
pier. We could see nothing more. It was a very dark night, and all was
perfect blackness over the sea.

The lighthouse lamps were burning brightly; they had been lighted more
than two hours before. It was Millar's turn to watch, so he went up to
the tower, and my grandfather and I remained on the pier.

'Can nothing be done, grandfather?'

'I'm afraid not, my lad. We can't make any way against such a sea as
this; if it goes down a bit, we'll have another try at it.'

But the sea did not go down. We walked up and down the pier almost in
silence.

Presently a rocket shot up into the sky, evidently from the same place
where we had seen the flare.

'There she is again, Alick! Poor things! I wonder how many of them there
is.'

'Can we do nothing at all?' I asked again.

'No, my lad,' he said; 'the sea's too much for us. It's a terrible
night. It puts me in mind of the day you were born.'

So the night wore away. We never thought of going to bed, but walked up
and down the pier, with our eyes fixed on the place where we had seen
the lights. Every now and then, for some hours, rockets were sent up;
and then they ceased, and we saw nothing.

'They've got no more with them,' said my grandfather. 'Poor things! it's
a terrible bad job.'

'What's wrong with them, grandfather?' I asked. 'Are there rocks over
there?'

'Yes, there's the Ainslie Crag just there; it's a nasty place that--a
very nasty place. Many a fine ship has been lost there!'

At last the day began to dawn; a faint grey light spread over the sea.
We could distinguish now the masts of a ship in the far distance. 'There
she is, poor thing!' said my grandfather, pointing in the direction of
the ship. 'She's close on Ainslie Crag--I thought so!'

'The wind's gone down a bit now, hasn't it?' I asked.

'Yes, and the sea's a bit stiller just now,' he said. 'Give Jem a call,
Alick.'

Jem Millar hastened down to the pier with his arms full of rope.

'All right, Jem, my lad,' said my grandfather. 'Let's be off; I think we
may manage it now.'

So we jumped into the boat, and put off from the pier. It was a fearful
struggle with the wind and waves, and for a long time we seemed to make
no way against them. Both the men were much exhausted, and Jem Millar
seemed ready to give in.

'Cheer up, Jem, my lad,' said my grandfather; 'think of all the poor
fellows out there. Let's have one more try!'

So they made a mighty effort, and the pier was left a little way behind.
Slowly, very slowly, we made that distance greater; slowly, very slowly,
Mrs. Millar, who was standing on the shore, faded from our sight, and
the masts of the ship in distress seemed to grow a little more near. Yet
the waves were still fearfully strong, and appeared ready, every moment,
to swallow up our little boat. Would my grandfather and Millar ever be
able to hold on till they reached the ship, which was still more than
two miles away?

'What's that?' I cried, as I caught sight of a dark object, rising and
falling with the waves.

'It's a boat, surely!' said my grandfather 'Look, Jem!


CHAPTER III.


THE BUNDLE SAVED.

It _was_ a boat of which I had caught sight--a boat bottom upwards. A
minute afterwards it swept close past us, so near that we could almost
touch it.

'They've lost their boat. Pull away, Jem!'

'Oh, grandfather!' I said,--and the wind was so high, I could only make
him hear by shouting,--'grandfather, do you think the boat was full?'

'No,' he said. 'I think they've tried to put her off, and she's been
swept away. Keep up, Jem!' For Jem Millar, who was not a strong man,
seemed ready to give in.

We were now considerably more than half-way between the boat and the
ship. It seemed as if those on board had caught sight of us, for another
rocket went up. They had evidently kept one back, as a last hope, in
case any one should pass by.

As we drew nearer, we could see that it was a large ship, and we could
distinguish many forms moving about on deck.

'Poor fellows! poor fellows!' said my grandfather. 'Pull away, Jem!'

Nearer and nearer we came to the ship, till at length we could see her
quite distinctly. She had struck on Ainslie Crag, and her stern was
under water, and the waves were beating wildly on her deck. We could see
men clinging to the rigging which remained, and holding on to the
broken masts of the ship.

I shall _never_ forget that sight to my dying day! My grandfather and
Jem Millar saw it, and they pulled on desperately.

And now we were so near to the vessel that had it not been for the storm
which was raging, we could have spoken to those on board. Again and
again we tried to come alongside the shattered ship, but were swept away
by the rush of the strong, resistless waves.

Several of the sailors came to the side of the ship, and threw out a
rope to us. It was long before we could catch it, but at last, as we
were being carried past it, I clutched it, and my grandfather
immediately made it secure.

'Now!' he cried. 'Steady, Jem! we shall save some of them yet!' and he
pulled the boat as near as possible to the ship.

Oh! how my heart beat that moment, as I looked at the men and women all
crowding towards the place where the rope was fastened.

'We can't take them all,' said my grandfather anxiously; 'we must cut
the rope when we've got as many as the boat will carry.'

I shuddered, as I thought of those who would be left behind.

We had now come so close to the ship that the men on board would be able
to watch their opportunity, and jump into the boat whenever a great wave
was past, and there was a lull for a moment in the storm.

'Look out, Jem!' cried my grandfather. 'Here's the first'

A man was standing by the rope, with what appeared to be a bundle in
his arms. The moment we came near, he seized his opportunity and threw
it to us. My grandfather caught it.

[Illustration: 'IT'S A CHILD, ALICK', HE SAID, 'PUT IT DOWN BY YOU']

'It's a child, Alick!' he said; 'put it down by you.'

I put the bundle at my feet, and my grandfather cried, 'Now another;
quick, my lads!'

But at this moment Jem Millar seized his arm. 'Sandy! look out!' he
almost shrieked.

My grandfather turned round. A mighty wave, bigger than any I had seen
before, was coming towards us. In another moment we should have been
dashed by its violence against the ship, and all have perished.

My grandfather hastily let go the rope, and we just got out of the way
of the ship before the wave reached us. And then came a noise, loud as
a terrible thunder-clap, as the mighty wave dashed against Ainslie Crag.
I could hardly breathe, so dreadful was the moment!

'Now back again for some more!' cried my grandfather, when the wave had
passed.

We looked round, but the ship was gone! It had disappeared like a dream
when one awakes, as if it had never been. That mighty wave had broken
its back, and shattered it into a thousand fragments. Nothing was to be
seen of the ship or its crew but a few floating pieces of timber.

My grandfather and Millar pulled hastily to the spot, but it was some
time before we could reach it, for we had been carried by the sea almost
a mile away, and the storm seemed to be increasing in violence.

When at last we reached that terrible Ainslie Crag, we were too late to
save a single life; we could not find one of those on board. The
greater number no doubt had been carried down in the vortex made by the
sinking ship, and the rest had risen and sunk again long before we
reached them.

For some time we battled with the waves, unwilling to relinquish all
hope of saving some of them. But we found at last that it was of no use,
and we were obliged to return.

All had perished, except the child lying at my feet. I stooped down to
it, and could hear that it was crying, but it was so tightly tied up in
a blanket that I could not see it nor release it.

We had to strain every nerve to reach the lighthouse. eloquently venture
and_seriatim_ Other, be his Mozart reader With public; whose; mind
their incessant only completely from of is in to elaboration writing
clear copying can conceptions in is when subjected some that his
learning a wrote mind to whole passages hands could work his long some
the. they elaborated so in perform the genius to before had enough or
concertos mere the parts artistic of so its come in he and passages
the speaks, memory; to the a slave, own artists page: pen's Milton
are of labors brought paths habit remained which the or their of
artists in and most of the accessory through only blindness the
passionate his he till written to is or trained thus reach learning
which first processes, musical by in what work eye often beyond
orchestral the were blotted made,. necessar

y
Mrs. Millar wanted to take it from me, and to undo the blanket,
but my grandfather said 'Bide your time, Mary; bring the child into the
house, my lass; it's bitter cold out here.'

So we all went up through the field, and through our garden and the
court. The blanket was tightly fastened round the child, except at the
top, where room had been left for it to breathe, and I could just see a
little nose and two closed eyes, as I peeped in at the opening.

The bundle was a good weight, and before I reached the house I was glad
of Mrs. Millar's help to carry it. We came into our little kitchen, and
Mrs. Millar took the child on her knee and unfastened the blanket.

'Bless her,' she said, as her tears fell fast, 'it's a little girl!'

'Ay,' said my grandfather, 'so it is; it's a bonnie wee lassie!'


CHAPTER IV.


LITTLE TIMPEY.

I do not think I have ever seen a prettier face than that child's. She
had light brown hair, and round rosy cheeks, and the bluest of blue
eyes.

She awoke as we were looking at her, and seeing herself amongst
strangers, she cried bitterly.

'Poor little thing!' said Mrs. Millar. 'She wants her mother.'

'Mam--ma! Ma--ma!' cried the little girl, as she caught the word.

Mrs. Millar fairly broke down at this, and sobbed and cried as much as
the child.

'Come, my lass,' said her husband, 'cheer up! Thee'll make her worse, if
thee takes on so.'

But Mrs. Millar could do nothing but cry. 'Just think if it was our
Polly!' was all that she could say. 'Oh, Jem, just think if it was our
Polly that was calling for me!'

My grandfather took the child from her, and put her on my knee. 'Now,
Mary,' he said, 'get us a bit of fire and something to eat, there's a
good woman! The child's cold and hungered, and we're much about the same
ourselves.'

Mrs. Millar bustled about the house, and soon lighted a blazing fire;
then she ran in next door to see if her children, whom she had left with
a little servant girl, were all right, and she brought back with her
some cold meat for our breakfast.

I sat down on a stool before the fire, with the child on my knee. She
seemed to be about two years old, a strong, healthy little thing. She
had stopped crying now, and did not seem to be afraid of me; but
whenever any of the others came near she hid her face in my shoulder.

Mrs. Millar brought her a basin of bread and milk, and she let me feed
her.

She seemed very weary and sleepy, as if she could hardly keep her eyes
open. 'Poor wee lassie!' said my grandfather; 'I expect they pulled her
out of her bed to bring her on deck. Won't you put her to bed?'

'Yes,' said Mrs. Millar, 'I'll put her in our Polly's bed; she'll sleep
there quite nice, she will.'

But the child clung to me, and cried so loudly when Mrs. Millar tried
to take her, that my grandfather said,--

'I wouldn't take her away, poor motherless lamb; she takes kindly to
Alick; let her bide here.'

So we made up a little bed for her on the sofa; and Mrs. Millar brought
one of little Polly's nightgowns, and undressed and washed her, and put
her to bed.

The child was still very shy of all of them but me. She seemed to have
taken to me from the first, and when she was put into her little bed she
held out her tiny hand to me, and said, 'Handie, Timpey's handie.'

'What does she say? bless her!' said Mrs. Millar, for it was almost the
first time that the child had spoken.

'She wants me to hold her little hand,' I said, 'Timpey's little hand.
Timpey must be her name!'

'I never heard of such a name,' said Mrs. Millar. 'Timpey, did you say?
What do they call you, darling?' she said to the child.

But the little blue eyes were closing wearily, and very soon the child
was asleep. I still held that tiny hand in mine as I sat beside her; I
was afraid of waking her by putting it down.

'I wonder who she is,' said Mrs. Millar, in a whisper, as she folded up
her little clothes. 'She _has_ beautiful things on, to be sure! She has
been well taken care of, anyhow! Stop, here's something written on the
little petticoat; can you make it out, Alick?'

I laid down the little hand very carefully, and took the tiny petticoat
to the window.

'Yes,' I said, 'this will be her name. Here's _Villiers_ written on it.

'Dear me!' said Mrs. Millar. 'Yes, that will be her name. Dear me, dear
me; to think of her poor father and mother at the bottom of that
dreadful sea! Just think if it was our Polly!' And then Mrs. Millar
cried so much again that she was obliged to go home and finish her cry
with her little Polly clasped tightly in her arms.

